A EEVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS TRACHYNOTUS.
BY SETH E. MEEK AND DAVID K. GOSS.
In the present paper we give the synonymy of the species of Trachynotus found in American waters, with brief descriptions of those known to us found on the Atlantic Coast.
The latter are here all described from specimens obtained by Professor Jordan at Havana and Key West.
We are very much indebted to Professor Jordan for use of his library and for valuable aid.
In the following analysis of species, Trachynotus marginatus is omitted, the original description being too insufficient for comparison.
Of the remaining seven species, two (rhomboides, glaucus) appear to be confined to the Atlantic ; two others {kennedyi, fasciatus) represent those on the Pacific Coast, while the others (rhodopus, carolinus, cayennensis) appear to be found on both sides, although in the case of rhodopus and carolinus being far more abundant in the Atlantic.
Analysis of Species of Trachynotus.
a. Dorsal with 19 to 20 soft rays ; anal with It to 19 soft rays.
b.
Body very much compressed ; sides with narrow black crossbars ; lobes of vertical fins elongate, reaching past middle of caudal fin in adult.
c. Snout subtruncate or nearly vertical ; profile from supraorbital to front of dorsal fin convex.
glaucus.
1. cc.
Snout low, very oblique ; profile from supraorbital region to the dorsal scarcely convex.
fasciatus.
2. bb.
Body moderately compressed ; sides without narrow black cross-bars ; lobes of vertical fins shorter, rarely reaching base of caudal ; lobes of dorsal and anal usually blackish.
d. Body broad, ovate ; the greatest depth at all ages more than half length of bod}^ ; lobes of the vertical fins reaching in the adult beyond the middle of their fins.
e. Axil with a large black spot (in the adult) ; profile strongl}' convex anteriorly.
kennedyi.
3, ee.
Axil without dark spot ; profile from nostril to dorsal everywhierp about equally convex.
9 rhomboides.
4. dd.
Body oblong ; the dej)th in young and old about | length of body.
rhodopus.
5. aa.
Dorsal with 25 to 21 soft ra3'S ; anal with 22 to 26 soft rays ; body oblong, rather robust ; greatest thickness 3 in greatest depth of body ; depth less than half length ; lobes of vertical fins short, not black ; sides without dark crossbars.
/.
Dorsal with 25 soft rays ; anal with 22 soft rays ; profile from snout to procumbent spine evenly convex.
carolinus.
6.
^.
Dorsal with 21 ; anal with 26 soft rays, cayennensis.
*l. Trachynotus glaucus.
Gaff-top-nail Pompano.
Old loife.
ChoBtodon glaucus Bloch, Ichthyologia, PI.
ccx, about 1783 (oij a figure by Plumier).
AcantMnion glaucus Lacdpede, iv, 1803, 500 (copied).
Trachinotus glaucus Cuvier & Yalencieuues, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., viii, 1831, 400 (Brazil, Havana, Mexico, San Domingo, Martinique and Guadeloupe) ; Guichenot, "Poiss.
Ramon de la Sagra, Hist, Cuba, 107, 1845" (Cuba).
Trachynotus glaucus Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mns., ii, 1860, 483 (Antilles, Jamaica and Rio Janeiro) ; Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1862, 438 (Charleston, S. C.) ; Gill, Rep. U. S. Fish Com., 1871-2, 803 (name only) ; Goode, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.,' 1879, 112 (name only) ; Goode, Bull.
U. S. Fish Com.. 1881, 37, 40 (Bermudas) ; Goode & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 237 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U.
S Nat.
Mus., 1882, 270 (Pensacola) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 443 ; Jordan & Gilbert, op.
cit, 912.
Habitat.
— Atlantic Coasts of America : Charleston, Pensaeola, Key West, Bermudas, Jamaica, Antilles, Guadaloupe, Martinique and Rio Janeiro.
Also erroneously ascribed (by confusion with Trachynotus fasciatua) to Lower California and Panama.
Head 4 in length of body ; depth 2 ; D. VI-I, 19 ; A. II-I, 18 ; length (No.
440, I. U.
Key West) 13 inches.
Body elliptical, much compressed ; snout blunt, subtruncate, vertical from mouth to horizontal from upper edge of eye ; the profile from supraorbital to front of dorsal fin convex ; eye Z% in head ; mouth nearly horizontal ; maxillary nearly reaches vertical from middle of ej'e, its length 3 in head ; jaws without teeth in the adult ; dorsal spines separate, in the adult ; dorsal and anal fins falcate, the anterior soft rays reaching middle of caudal fin; dorsal lobe U, anal If in length of body; ventrals reaching | distance to vent, their length 2f in head ; caudal very deeply forked, their lobes nearly half length of body.
Color bluish above, golden below ; lobes of dorsal and anal very dark, rest of the fins pale, with bluish edges ; caudal bluish; Pectorals golden and bluish ; ventrals whitish.
Body crossed by four black vertical bands ; the first is under the procumbent spine, the second under the third dorsal spine, the third and fourth under the soft dorsal.
A black spot, representing a fifth band, on latter line between the last rays of dorsal anal; this is sometimes obsolete ; the position of these bands appears to be subject to slight variation.
The young of this species has not yet been described.
Trachynotus fasciatus.
Trachynotus fasciatus Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1863, 86 (Cape San Lucas) ; Giinther, Fishes Cent.
America, 1869, 434 (Panama, San Jose and Nicaragua) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 232 (Porto Escondido, Mexico) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Com., 1882, 106 (Mazatlan, no description) ; Jordan* Gilbert, Proc, U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 359 (Cape San Lucas, no description\ Trachynotus glaucoides Giinther, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1864, 150 (San Jose ; Nicaragua).
Habitat.
— Pacific Coast of Tiopical America : Cape San Lucas, Mazatlan, Porto Escondido, San Jose, Nicaragua, and Panama.
This species is the Pacific representative of Trachynotus glaucus, which species it strongly resembles.
The diflTerence in the profile is, however, constant and characteristic.
Trachynotus kennedyi.
Trachynotus kennedyi Steindachner, Icht' yol., Beitrage, ii', 1875, 47, PI.
v;i, (Magdalena Bay) ; Giinther, Fish, Cent.
Amer., 1869, 388 (in part, Panama).
Trachynotus ovatus Lockington, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1876, 4 (Lower California) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 375 (Panama, not of Cuv.
& Val.).
Trachynotus rhomboides Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 625 (Panama, young).
Trachynotus rhodopus Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U.
8.
F.sh Com., 1882, 106 (Mazatlan, not of Gill).
Habitat.
— Pacific Coast of Tropical America : Magdalena Baj', Mazatlan, Panama.
This species is the Pacific Coast representative of Trachynotus rhomboides, from which it differs in the presence of a black axil124 PROOBEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. lary spot, and slightly in form of the profile.
The j^oung lack this spot, and cannot readily be distinguished from the young of Traehynotus rhomboides.
It is therefore probable that all the references made by authors lo the occurrence of T. rhomboides (ovatus) on the Pacific Coast of Tropical America refer to this species.
A series brought b}^ Professor Gilbert from Panama (now unfortunately destroyed) is said to render this view very probable.
We are informed by Professor Jordan that the specimens brought by Professor Gilbert from Mazatlan, recorded as T, rhodopus, belong to this species, of which the latter cannot be the young, as was at first supposed.
Traehynotus rhomboides.
Round Pompano ; Palometa.
Chmtodon rhomboides Bloch, Iclithyologia, ccix, about 1783 Con a drawing by Plumier) ; Gmelin, Syst.
Nat., 1788, 1259 (copied).
Acanthinion rhoniboides Lacepede, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., iv, 1803, 500 (copied).
Trachinotus rhoiriboides Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., viii, 1831, 407 (Martinique) ; Gi^ichenot "Poiss.
Ramon delaSagra, Hist.
Cuba, 1845, 108" (Cuba).
Traehynotus rhoviboides Liitken, Spolia Atlantica, 1880, 602 (West Indies) ; .Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 974.
Spinous dory Mitchill, Trans.
Lit.
and Ph 1.
Soc, 1815, PI.
vi, f. 10 (no dtscr'ption).
Trachinotus fusctts Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., viii, 1831, 410 (Brazil).
Trachinotus spinosus De Kay, N. Y. Fauna Fisbes, 1842, 117, PI.
xix, fig.
53 (New Yoik Harbor) ; Siorer, "Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1846, 98."
Lichia spinosus Baird, Ninth Smithsonian Rep., 1854, 22 (Beesley's Point, New Jersey).
Doliodon spinosus Girard, U. S. and Mex.
Bd.
Surv., 1859, 22 (St. Joseph's Island, Texas) ; Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 1861, 37 (name only).
Traehynotus ovatus Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus,, ii, 1860, 481 (in part, West Indian specimens, apparently not Oasterosteus ovatus, which is the Asiatic species) ; Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1862, 438 ; Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1863, 332 ; Gill, Rep. U. S. Fish Com., 1871-2, 803 ; Baird, Rep. U. S. Fish Com., 1871-2, 825 (Wood's Holl, Mass.)
; Goode, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 112 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1878, 376 (Beaufort, N. C, no description) ; Goode & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 339.
(Marquesas Keys, Fla.) ; Goode, Bull.
U. S. Fish Com., 1880, 24 (name only) ; Goode, Bull.
U. S. Fish Com., 1881, 36-39 ; Goode & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 237 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 442.
Habitat.
— Atlantic Coast of America : Wood's Holl, New York, Beesley's Point, Beaufort, Marquesas Keys, Key West, St. Joseph's Island, Martinique, and Brazil.
Head 3f in length ; depth 1| ; D. VI-1, 19 ; A. Il-I, 18 ; length (No.
486, I. XJ.
Havana) 18 inches.
Body broadl}-^ ovate, moderately compressed ; profile very evenly convex from procumbent spine to horizontal from upper edge of eye, where it descends almost vertical.
The vertical portion is about H times the eye ; length of snout nearly equals the eye ; mouth nearly horizontal ; maxillary reaching to the vertical from middle of eye, its length 21 in head ; jaws without teeth in adult ; dorsal spines short and thick, not connected by membrane in adult; ventrals short, their tips scarcely reaching half way to anterior anal spine ; 3 in head ; caudal widely forked ; lobes about 2t in length of body ; dorsal and anal fins falcate ; anterior rays reaching almost to posterior end of fins ; in adults, dorsal lobe 2f , anal lobe 4^, in length of body.
Color bluish above, silvei-y below ; lobes of dorsal black in young ; in adults the fins are all bluish with lighter tips.
The young differ from the adult as above described in the following respects : The profile is scarcely convex ; snout shorter and less vertical ; spines much longer and connected by membranes ; lobes of vertical fins shorter ; dorsal lobe with black ; fins all much paler ; jaws with bands of villiform teeth; eye larger; color much paler.
We have had no opportunity of comparing the American Trachynotus rhomboides with the East Indian Trachynotus ovatus with which it has been identified by Dr. Giinther.
We have been led to consider them as distinct by the following observation of Dr. Liitken: " I will only remark that the Trachynotus rhomboides of the Antilles has already its rhomboidal physiognomy and the falcations of its fins strongly prolonged at an age at which, in the Trachynotus ovatus of the seas of the Indies, these prolongations of the fins are quite short.
I am of the opinion (with Mr. Gill) that these two species ought, at least provisionally, to be considered as distinct."
As the antecedent probabilities are against the identity of these species in such widely separated faunre, there is less danger of confusion in regarding the two as different.
Trachynotus rhodopus.
Permit.
Great Pompann.
Trachynotus goreensis Giinther.
Cat.
Fish, Brit.
Mus., 1860, 483 (specimens from Caribbean Sea ; in part, not of Cuvier & Valenciennes) ; Goode & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 129 (West Florida, Jupiter's Inlet) ; Goode & Bean, Proc.
tJ.
S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 339 ("West Florida, Marquesas Keys) ; Goode, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 112 (name only) ; Goode, Bull.
U. S. Fish Com., 1881, 36, 40 (Key West and Jupiter's Inlet) ; Goode, Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 24 (name only) ; Goode & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 237 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 442 ; Jordan & Gilbert, op.
cit., 1882, 974.
Trachynotus rhodopus Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1863, 85 (Cape San Lucas ; young).
Trachynotus nasutus Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1863, 85 (Cape San Lucas ; very young).
Trachynotus CaroUnus, Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cubensium, 1808, 371 (Cuba) ; Poey, Eilumeratio Pise.
Cubensium, 1875, 86.
Habitat.
— Both coasts of Tropical America : West Florida, Jupiter's Inlet, Marquesas Keys, Key West, Cuba, Caribbean Sea, Cape San Lucas.
Head 3 in length ; depth 2f : D. VI-I, 19 ; A. II-I, U ; length of specimen described (Key West), 2^ inches.
Body oblong, elliptical, moderately compressed ; profile nearly straight from procumbent spine to nostril, where it descends nearly vertical, forming an angle ; vertical portion from angle to snout nearly equals the eye ; maxillary reaches slightly behind vertical from middle of eye, its length 2f in head ; jaws with bands of villiform teeth (these disappearing with age) ; ventrals reaching I distance to vent, their length 2 in head ; tips of pectorals reaching slightly past tips of ventrals ; dorsal spines connected by a membrane, which is only characteristic of the young.
Dorsal and anal fins falcate, their anterior soft rays less elevated than in Trachynotus rhomboides, but extending beyond middle of fins when depressed.
Length in the young 4 in length of bod}' ; caudal forked, lobes about 3 in bc*ly ; lateral line nearly straight, slightly curved upwards above the pectorals ; color bluish silvery above, silvery below; dorsal, caudal and anal lobes blackish; no crossbars.
This species grows to a much larger size than any other of the genus found in our waters ; specimens of 2 to 3 feet in length being not uncommon in Florida and Cuba.
It has been identified with the Trachynotus goreenais of Cuvier & Valenciennes, by most American autliors, this being a species from the West Coast of Africa.
The basis of this identification appears to be insufficient.
According to Cuvier & Valenciennes this Trachynotus goreensis is a deeper flsh than ours is at any age.
Its outline and coloration are also different.
Trachynotus maxillosus Cuvier & Valenciennes, also from Africa, comes much nearer our fish, but this differs too much to be safely identified with it.
On the other hand, our young specimens col'respond exactly to the two descriptions of little Trachynoti taken by Xantus at Cape San Lucas, published by Professor Gill; the larger one (2^^ inches in length) corresponds entirely to the T. rhodopus, the smaller one (IyV inches in length) to T. nasutus.
There is, however, no other record of the occurrence of our species in the Pacific.
The drawings and notes made by Professor Poey, of the species called by him T. carolinus, have been examined by Professor Jordan.
They belong to T. rhodopus.
T. carolinus is therefore as yet not known from Cuba.
Trachynotus carolinus.
Gasterosteus caroUntis Linnaeus, Syst.
Nat., ed.
13, 1766, 490 (Carolina).
Doliodon carolinus Girard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1858, 168; Girard, U. S. & Mex.
Bd.
Surv., 1839, 23, PI.
xi, fig.
4 (St. Joseph's Island, Texas) ; Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 1861, 37 (name only).
Trachynotus cafoUnus Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1863, 438 ; Gill, op.
cit., 1863, 84 (Cape San Lucas) ; Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1863, 333 (name only) ; Gill, Kep.
U. S. Fish Com., 1871-8, 803 (name only) ; Baird, Rep. U: S. Fish Com., 1871-3, 835 (Wood's Holl) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1878, 377 (Beau^ fort, N. C, no description) ; Godde & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 139 (Pensacola, Fla;) ; Gddde & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 113 (name only) ; Bean, Proc; U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 90 (Wood's Holl, New York and Newport, R.
I.)
; Goode, Bull.
U. S. Fish Com., 1881, 36 ; Goode & Bean^ Pro?.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 337 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 596 (Charleston, S. C, no description) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 359 (Cape San Lucas) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 370 (Pensacola, Fla., no description) ; Goode, Bull.
21, U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 34 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1883, 443 ; Jordan, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1884, 45 (Egmont Key;.
TracMnotus cupreus Cuvier & Valencieniies, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., viii, 1831, 414 (Martinique).
TracMnotus argenteus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., 1831, 413 (Martinique) ; Storer, Syn.
Fishes N. A., 1846, 98.
Trachynotus argenteus Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 1861, 37 (name only).
Trachynotus pampanus Ouv.
& Val., op.
cit.
(Charleston, S. C.) ; Storer, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1846, 99.
Trachynotus pampanus Giinther, Cat.
Fi.sh.
Brit.
Mus., ii, 1860, 484 (Jamaica) ; Gill, Proc, Acad.
Kat.
Sci.
Phila., 1862, 262 (Cape San Lucas).
Bothrolmmus pampanus Holbrook, Ich.
S.
Cav., 1860 (Charleston) ; Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 1861, 37 (name only).
IdcMa Carolina DeKay, N. Y. Fauna, iv, 1842, 114, PI.
x, f. 3 (Sandy Hook) ; Storer, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1846, 96 ; Baird, Ninth Rep, Smith.
Inst., 1854, 21 (Beesley's Point, N.
J.).
Habitat.
— Atlantic (and Pacific) Coasts of America: Wood's Holl, Newport, Sandy Hook, Beesley's Point, Beaufort, Charleston, Pensacola, St. Joseph's Island, Egmont Key, Key West, Martinique and Cape San Lucas.
Head 4 in length ; depth 2f ; D. YI-I, 25 ; A. II-I, 22.
Length (No.
434, L U., Key West) 15i inches.
Body oblong, comparatively robust ; greatest thickness 3 in greatest depth.
Snout from mouth to horizontal from upper edge of eye nearly vertical, somewhat bluntly rounded ; profile from upper edge of snout to procumbent spine evenly convex.
Mouth nearly horizontal, maxillary reaching to vertical from middle of eye, its length 2| in head ; eye 4^ in head, about as long as snout.
Jaws without teeth in adult.
Ventrals reach | distance to vent, about 2 in pectorals, 2^ in liead.
Dorsal and anal fins falcate ; anterior rays nearly reach middle of fins when depressed; dorsal lobe 4^; anal 5| in length of body.
Color bluish above, silvery or slightly golden below ; pectorals and anal light orange shaded with bluish ; caudal and upper portion of caudal peduncle with bluish reflections'.
On our South Atlantic and Gulf Coasts this is by far the most abundant species of the genus, and it is the one most esteemed as food.
Its distribution in the West Indies is little known, the only positive record from points south of Kej^ West being that of " Trachynotus cupreus " from Martinique.
The only specimens known from the West Coast are those taken by Xantus at Cape San Lucas.
While we have no good reason to doubt that the specimens now in the National Museum really came from Xantus, it is strange that no later collectors in Lower California and Sinaloa have found either this species or Trachynotus rhodopus.
Trachynotus cayennensis.
Trachinotus cayennensis Cuvier & Valenciennes, H;st. Nat.
Poiss., viii, 1831, 417 (Cayenne) ; Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit, Mus., ii, 1860, 485 (copied).
?
Trachinotus paitensis Cuv.
& Val., op.
cit., viii, 1831, 438 (Peru).
Nothing is known of this species except what is contained in the two meagre descriptions noticed above.
No difference is indicated by which the Pacific Coast fish (paitensis) is to be known from the Atlantic one.
Both appear to diflfer from T. carolinus in the still longer vertical fins.
• Trachynotas marginatus.
Trachinotus marginatus Cuvier & Valefiiciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., viii, 1831, 411 (Montevideo), This species appears to be allied to Trachynotus rhodopus and T. goreensis, but the description is too brief to give much idea of its relations.
Becapitulation, We have in this paper admitted eight species of Trachynotus, as found in American waters.
Some doubt is attached to the nomenclature of some of them.
We give in the following list a brief indication of the questions remaining to be solved in each case : — Genus TBACHTNOTUS Lac^pfede.
1.
T. glaucus Bloch.
2.
T. fasciatus Gill.
3.
T. kennedyi Steindachner (possibly to be considered as a geographical variety of T. rhomhoides or of T. ovatus).
4.
T. rhomboides Bloch (possibly identical with the East Indian T. ovatus Linnaeus ; if so, to take the latter name).
5.
T rhodopns Gill, Very impt-obably identical with T. g'treentis Cuv.
& Val.
; possibly identical with 7".
maxillosuB Cuv.
& Val., both of them being African species of prior date.
Possibly not really found in the Pacific).
6.
T. carolinus Linnseus (possibly not occurring in the West Indies or in the Pacific).
7.
T. cayennensis Cuv.
&, Val.
(imperfectly described; possibly the Pacific form of T. paitensis is distinct).
8.
T. marginatus Cuv.
& Val.
(imperfectly described and doubtful).
A EEVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS SYNODTJS.
BY SETH E. MEEK.
I have attempted in this paper to give a review of the American species of Synodus^ with a detailed description of certain species imperfectly described elsewhere.
The paper is based on specimens collected by Professor Jordan at Cedar Kej-s and Kej^ West, Florida, and Havana, Cuba, belonging to the United States National Museum and the Museum of the Indiana University.
All the Atlantic species here recognized, except Synodus saurus, are contained in this collection.
I am very much indebted to Professor Jordan for use of his library and for other aids.
Analysis of American Species of Synodus.
a. Snout short, obtuse, S^ in length of premaxillary ; head sorne-» what compressed, much deeper than broad ; anal fin com* paratively long, its rays about 14 ; head 31 in length ; origin of dorsal midway between snout and adipose fin ; scales 4-55-6 ( Trachinocephalus Gill).
myops.
1. aa.
Snout long, pointed, about 2^ in premaxillar} ; head depressed , little if any deeper than broad ; anal comparatively short, rays 10 to 12 ; head 4 to 4§ in length (Syiiodus).
b. Scales large, 43 to 50 in lateral line; origin of dorsal midway between tip of snout and adipose fin ; lateral line with a blunt keel posteriorly, c. First and last rays of dorsal coterminous when the fin is depressed ; black blotch of scapula very small or obsolete ; D. I-IO ; A. I--11 to 12 ; scales 4-45-5. intermedius.
2, cc.
Tips of first dorsal rays not reaching last when the fin is depressed ; scapula with a large black blotch ; D. I-ll to 12 ; i^.
I-IO to 11 ; scales 4-48-6. anolis.
3. hb.
Scales small, 55 to 70 in lateral line.
d. Dorsal fin much higher than long ; tips of first rays extending beyond tips of last when the fin is depressed ; length of fin 1 1 in length of longest ray, and 2^ in head; teeth large; D. 1-9; A. I-ll; scales 4-57-6. spixianus.
4. dd.
Dorsal fin slightly higher than long ; tips of first rays not extending beyond tips of last when the fin is depressed ; teeth small, e. Snout broader than long, the jaws subeqiial ; tail with a slight keel ; scales 3|-60-6.
saurus.
5. ee.
Snout longer than broad, the lower jaw included ; tail without keel.
/.
Four rows of scales between lateral line and adipose fin (6 in an oblique row); origin of dorsal fin nearer adipose fin than tip of snout ; scales on cheeks in about 4 to 7 rows, on opercles in 4 to 6 rows.
g. Head very small, 4f in length ; first rays of dorsal coterminous with last ray when the fin is depressed ; cheeks with about 4 rows of large scales, opercles with about 4 ; ventrals 1| in head ; pectoral 2 in head ; D. I-IO ; A.
1-12 ; scales 6-61-6. scituliceps.
6. gg.
Head 4 in length ; tips of first rays of dorsal not reaching tips of last when the fin is depressed ; scales on cheeks in about T rows, on opercles in about 6 rows ; ventrals 2^ in head ; D. I-IO to 11 ; A. I-IO to 11 ; scales 4-64-6. foetens.
7. ff.
Six rows of scales between adipose fin and lateral line ; cheeks with about 9 rows of scales, opercles with about 8 rows; D. I-IO; A. I-ll; scales 13-66-16. lucioceps.
8.
Synodus myops.
Salmo myops Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichthyol., 1801, 431 (St. Helena).
iSawMS m2/<?psCuv!er& Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., xxii, 1849, 485 (South Caiolina, Martinique, Bahia, St. Helena) ; Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mu-*., v, 1864, 398 (Cuba, Jamaica) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
F:sh.
N. A., 1882, 281.
TracMnoceplialus myops Poey, Syn.
Pisc.
Cub., 1868, 415 (Cuba).
Salmo fcetens Bloch., Ichthyologia, about 1790, taf.
384, fig.
2 ; Bloch & Scluie'der, Systema Ichthyol., 1801, 404 (not Linnaeus).
Osmenis lemniscatus Lacepede, Hi&t.
Nat.
Poiss., v, 1803, 236 (on a drawing by Pluniier).
Saurns truncatus Agassiz, Spix, Pise.
Bras., 1829, 82, tab.
45 (Brazil).
Saurus hrevirostris Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 305 (Cuba).
Trac7dnocephalus hrevirostris Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 1868, 415 (Cuba) ; ''anal rays 10 ;" Poey, Enum., 1875, 144.
Habitat.
— Tropical Atlantic; Cuba; Jamaica; Martinique; Bahia ; St. Helena ; Brazil and South Carolina.
Head 3f in length of body ; depth 5^ ; D. I-IO ; A.
1-14 ; scales 4_55_.6 (transverse series counted vertically from dorsal fin to vent respectively).
Body little compressed; snout short, obtuse,3Mnpremaxillary ; mouth large, premaxillary If in head ; interorbital area concave, about 6^ in head, upper surface of head rugose.
Dorsal slightly higher than long, its length H in head ; origin of dorsal fin midWay between tip of snout and adipose fin, slightly behind last fays of ventrals.
Anal fin long, its base nearly equal to head ; pectorals reaching root of ventrals, 2 in head ; tips of ventrals almost reaching vent, ventrals 4^ in length of body ; caudal forked ; teeth comparatively small ; lower jaw slightly projecting.
Color grayish, mottled with darker above ; body with eleven cross-bars ; a black blotch on scapula ; a black streak extending from eyes around s^^mphysis, forming a quadrated blotch on the side of each jaw, and one on the median line of each jaw ; dorsal fin faintly barred ; pectorals, ventrals and anal plain.
This description is taken from a very young specimen, twenty three inches in length, collected by Professor Jordan in Havana.
In the above synonymy we have omitted references from the Pacific Ocean, thinking it not impossible that the Asiatic species (limbatus) is a species distinct from S. myops.
Trachinocephalus hrevirostris Poey, known only from a drawing made in 185T, seems to differ only in the presence of ten .instead of fifteen anal rays.
This is probably an error, or perhaps an accidental mutilation.
I have little doubt that it is a synonym of S. myops.
Synodus intermedius.
?
?
?
Synodus Gronov., Mus.
Ichth., ii, 1765, No.
151, tab.
7, fig.
1. ?
?
?
Esox synodus Linnaeus, Syst.
Nat., i, 1766, 516 (America).
?
?
?
Synodus synodus Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichtliyol., 1801, 396. ?
Saurus synodus Cuv.
& Val., Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., xxii, 1849 (jMartinique ; Guadeloupe ; Bahia ; St. Helena).
?
?
?
Synodus fasciatus Lacepede, v, 1804, 321.
Saurus intermedius Agassiz, "Spix, Pise.
Brazil, 1829, 81, tab.
44 (Brazil)."
Synodus intermedius Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 1875, 14S (Cuba, not of Synopsis).
Habitat.
— Cuba ; Brazil.
Head 4 in length of body; depth 6|; D. I-IO; A. I -10; scales 444-4 (transverse series counted from dorsal.and vent respectively).
Body terete, rather robust ; snout comparatively long and pointed, about 3| in head; mouth large; premaxillar}'' about 1| in head ; intei-orbital area concave, about 6^ in head ; supraorbital ridge present, terminating anteriorly before the nostrils.
Origin of dorsal fin midway between tip of snout and adipose fin ; anterior rays of dorsal coterminous with posterior ones when the fin is deflexed ; fin higher than long, its length about 2 in head, lower jaw slightly projecting; teeth moderate, anterior palatine teeth largest, becoming smaller posteriorly.
Lateral line with a blunt keel posteriori}^, tips of ventrals reaching I distance to vent, their length about 1^ in head ; tips of pectorals extending to roots of ventrals, If in head ; caudal forked, lobes equal, scales large.
Color yellowish above, lighter below, scales above lateral line punctulate with dark ; breast flesh-colored ; sides with a row of irregular black markings ; scapula occasionally with a small black spot, faintly barred with black ; caudal not barred, dusky ; tips of middle rays darkest ; other fins plain.
This description is taken from several specimens, the largest 5 inches in length, collected by Professor Jordan at Havana.
This is evidently the Synodus intermedius of Poey's Enumeratio.
I have been unable to examine the figure of Agassiz and Spix, but from the account given of it by Poey, we infer that it is taken from specimens of the present species rather than of S. cuhanus.
According to Poey, the species figured by Spix lacks the scapular spot.
Synodus anolis.
^ Saurus anolis Cuvier & Valeneiennes, Hist.
Nat, Poiss., xxii, 1849, 438 (Babia ; Martinique).
1 Since tbe above was in type tlie following notes have been received by Prof. Jordan from Dr. H. E. Sauvage, of the jVIuseum of Paris : ^'■Saurus anolis C. & V. Bahia.
Type.
Length of body 245 m. Lateral line with 54 scales ; 10 in a transverse series.
A well-marked black spot on the scapular part of the gill-openings."
There seems to be no doubt of the identity of anolis and cuhanus.
Saurus intermedius Griinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., v, 1864, 396 (Jamaica ; Demarara ; Bahia ; not of Agassiz).
Synodus intermedius Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 1868, 414 (Cuba) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 889 ; Goods & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 239 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 249 (Pensacola, Fla.).
Synodus cubanus Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 1875, 143 (Cuba).
Habitat.
— Atlantic shores of Tropical America ; Pensacola ; Key West ; Cuba ; Jamaica ; Martinique ; Demarara and Bahia.
The description of Saurus anolis is so insufficient, that no certain identification can he made.
This species has been sufficiently described by Jordan & Gilbert (Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 249).
The large specimens from Key West, examined by me, agree well with this account.
Synodus spixianus.
Saurus spixianus Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 304 (Cuba).
Synodus spixianus Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cuba, 1868, 413 (Cuba) ; Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 1875, 397 (Cuba).
Habitat.
— Cuba ; Key West.
Head 4^ in length of body ; D. 1-9 ; A. I-ll ; scales 4-5 "7-6 (transverse series counted from dorsal and vent respectively).
Body oblong, nearly terete ; snout compai'atively long and pointed, 3^ in head and about 2^ in premaxillary.
Interorbital area concave, 6 in head.
Eye 5 in head.
Supraorbital striate.
Branchiostegals 16.
Origin of dorsal fin nearer adipose fin than tip of snout by length of dorsal fin ; tips of anterior rays reaching beyond tips of posterior ones when the fin is deflexed ; the fin is therefore much higher than long.
Length of fin 1 1 in length of longest ray and 2^ in head.
Yentrals moderate, reaching about I distance to vent, 1^ in head.
Tips of pectorals not reaching to roots of ventrals, about 2 in head.
Adipose fin situated over middle of anal.
Caudal forked, its lobes equal.
Teeth larger than in the other species.
Palatine teeth becoming smaller posteriorly.
Color light sandy gray, much mottled above with darker olive.
Branchiostegals A'ery pale, 5rellowish.
Ventrals and anal pale and plain, lower lobe of caudal dusky, neither barred.
Dorsal faintly barred with darker olive.
Tliis description taken from one specimen 8j inches long, collected by Professor Jordan in Havana.
Numerous smaller ones from Key West have also beeu exanained.
Synodus sanius.
Osmerus radiis pinnce ani undedm Artccli, Descript.
Spec.
Pise, 1738, 23 (Mediterranean).
Salmo saurus Linnaeus, Syst.
Nat., i, ed.
12, 1766, 511 (Europe).
Saurus lacerta Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
N^it.
Poiss., xxii, 1849, 463 (Europe, not of Risso).
Synodus lacerta Goode, Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1876, 68 (Bermudas).
Saurus griseus Lowe, Trans.
Zool.
Soc, ii, 1841, 188 (Madeiia) ; Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., v, 1864, 394 (Madeira, St. Vincent, Naples, MediteFranean).
I have not seen this species.
Professor Goode (Bull.
U. S. Nat, Mus., 18T6, 68) makes the following reference to its occurrence in the Bermudas : — "A specimen seventeen inches long was taken oft' the ' duckingstool ' in March, by a line fisherman.
Its occurrence in this part of the Atlantic is very novel, but it agrees closely with a specimen of Saurus griseus sent to the United States National Museum by Dr. Giinther.
Its color was dusky gray above, yellow below.
Its formulse are as follows: Branchiostegals, 16-17 (on opposite 31 sides); D, 12: A.
12 ; lateral line, 60; transverse line, -r-."
6 Synodus scituliceps.
Synodus 'scituliceps Jordan »& Gilbert, Proc, U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 344 (Mazatlan) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 354 (Cape San Lucas) ; Jordan & Gilbtrr, Bull.
U. S. Fish.
Com., 1882, 106 (Mazatlan); Jordan & Gilbtrt, Bull.
U. S. F sh.
Com., 1882, 109 (Panama,.
Saurus fcetens GiintliLr, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus,, 1864, 396 (in part; specimen from Panama).
Habitat.
— Mazatlan, Panama, Synodus fcetens.
Salmo fmtens L'nnseus, Syst, Nat., i, ed.
12, 1766, 513 (Carolina), Saurus fastens Cuvier «& Vakncitnnes, Hist, Nat.
Pofes., xxii, 1849, 471 (Martinique, St. DoniinjiO, Chaileston, S. C; Bahia, Rio Janeiro) ; Holbrook, Ichth, S. C, 1860, 187.
Synodus foitens Gill, Rept.
U, S, Fish.
Com., 1871-2, 810 (name only) ; Joidan & Gilbeit, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1878, 384 (Beaufort, N. C, no description) ; Goode, Pioc.
U, S, Nat, Mus,, 1879, 119 fname only) ; Goode & Bean, Prcc.
U, S, Nat, Mus , 1879, 342 (Key West) ; Bean, Proc, U.
S, Nat, Mus., 1880, 105 (B.auforr, N, C, ; no descrption) ; Goode & Bean, Proc, U.
S, Nat, Mus,, 1882, 239 (Gulf of Mexico) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U, S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 585 (Charleston, S. C.) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish, N. A., 1882, 280. ?
Coregonus ruber Lacepede, v, 1804, 263 (on a drawing by Plumier).
?
Saurus longirostris Agassiz, "Si)ix, Pise, Bras., tab.
43, 1839" (Brazil).
Habitat.
— Atlantic shores of America : Beaufort, Charleston, Cedar Keys, Key West, Martinique, St. Domingo, Rio Janeiro.
This is the most common species of the genus on the United States Coast.
It is well described by Jordan &, Gilbert, Syn.
Fish N. A., 1882, 280.
Synodus luoioceps Saurus lucioceps Ayres, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1855, 66 (San Francisco) ; Giintlier, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., v, 1864, 397 (copied).
Synodus lucioceps Jordan & Gilbert., Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 457 (San Francisco, Monterey Bay, Santa Barbara) ; Jordan & Jouy, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 13 (San Francisco, Monterey, Santa Barbara) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 42 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N. A., 1882, 281.
Sauries fmtens Lockington, Ann.
Mag.
Nat, Hist., about 1878 (erroneously identified with the Atlantic species).
Habitat.
— West Coast of U. S. : San Francisco, Monterey, Santa Barbara.
This species resembles Synodus f ceteris^ but has much smaller scales.
This is shown especially when the number in vertical series is counted.
The only accurate description is that of Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 281, PROC, A, N, S, PHILA, \m.
PL I. r-^.>^' •/" N. / V / V 3 ^^ ^ /\.
.
_.^-,--^N 5 Gf mflite.del.
GENUS APSILUS, 1884.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
137 May 6.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
A Bare Human Tapeworm.
— Dr. Leidy directed attention to some little tapeworms, which had recently been submitted to his examination by Prof. William Pepper.
They were expelled, by the use of santonin, from a child of three years.
The specimens, consisting of a dozen fragments, appear to be portions of three worms, which reached a length of from twelve to fifteen inches, or more.
Unfortunately the head is lost.
The joints or proglottides are more than several times the breadth of the length.
In a specimen of thirteen inches, comprising nearly a complete worm, the joints of the anterior attenuated extremity are about the one-fifth of a millimetre long by nearly two-thirds of a millimetre wide, while the posterior joints are half a millimetre long and two and a quarter milli-iietres wide.
Ripe joints at the posterior part of the body are pale brown, the color being due to the eggs.
These occupy a simple uterus defined by the walls of the joints, and not divided into pouches diverging laterally from a main stem as is usual in most taeniae.
A singular feature of the worm is the interruption of the series of ripe joints, here and there, by one or more completely sterile ones.
The generative apertures open in the usual wa}^ on the lateral margin of one side.
The mature eggs are spherical, measure 0"072 mm.
diameter, and contain, fully developed, six hooked embryos.
While differing greatly from the ordinary tapeworms infesting man, they approximate nearlj^ the description of Tsenise fiavopunctata, and probably pertain to this species.
This has been but once previously observed, and was described in 1858 bv Dr. Weinland (An Essay on Tapeworms of Man^, from specimens in the Museum of the Medical Improvement Society of Boston.
These were also discharged by a child.
The worm was estimated to be from eight to twelve inches.
The joints were marked by a yellow spot, from which the species was named.
The eggs measure from 0-054 to 0*06 mm.
Our specimens indicate a worm almost the same size as the T. Jlavopunctata^ but the joints are shorter and wider, and exhibit no yellow spot, and the eggs are larger.
In other characters the worms sufficiently accord to render it probable that they may pertain to the same species.
It is probable that the worm is more common than would be su|)posed from the instances of its observation, and has perhaps escaped notice from its small size, and from the general ignorance of the distinction, not only of this, but of the ordinary species of tapeworms.
A more complete account of the subject of this communication will, shortly appear in the American Journal of Medical Sciences.
10 138 proceedings of the academy of [1884.
May 13.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
How Lycosa fabricates her Round Cocoon.
— Dr. H. C. McCooK.
said that while walking in the suburbs of Philadelphia lately, he found under a stone a female Lycosa (probably L. riparia Hentz), which he placed in a jar partly filled with dry earth.
For two days the spider remained on the surface of the soil, nearly inactive.
The earth was then moistened, whereupon (May 2) she immediately began to dig, continuing until she had made a cavity about one inch in depth and height.
The top was then carefully covered over with a tolerably closely woven sheet of white spinning work, so that the spider was entirely shut in.
This cavity was made against the glass side of the jar, and the movements of the inmate were thus exposed to view.
Shortly after the cave was covered, the spider was seen working upon a circular cushion of beautiful white silk, about three-fourths of an inch in diameter, which was spun upwards in a nearly perpendicular position against the earthen wall of the cave.
The cushion looked so much like the cocoon of the common tubeweaver, Agalena ntevia, and the whole operations of the Lycosa were so like those of that species when cocooning, that the speaker was momentarily possessed with the thought that he had mistaken the creature's identity altogether, and again examined her carefully, only to be assured that she was indeed a Lycosa.
After an absence of half an hour.
Dr. McCook returned to find that in the interval the spider had oviposited against the central part of the silken cushion and was then engaged in enclosing the hemispherical egg-mass with a silken envelope.
The mode of spinning was as follows : the feet clasped the circumference of the cushion, and the body of the animal was slowly revolved ; the abdomen — now greatly reduced in size by the extrusion of the eggs — was lifted up, thus drawing out short loops of silk from the expanded spinnerets, which, when the abdomen was dropped again, contracted and left a flossy curl of silk at the point of attachment.
The abdomen was also swayed back and forwards, the filaments from the spinnerets following the motion as the spider turned, and thus an even thickness of silk was laid upon the eggs.
The same behavior marked the spinning of the silken button or cushion, in the middle of which the eggs had been deposited.
At this stage, Dr. McCook left for an evening engagement, with his ideas as to the cocooning habits of Lycosa very much confused, indeed, by an observation so opposed to the universal experience.
Returning to his desk in an hour and a half, he was once more assured by the sight of a round silken ball dangling from the apex of the spider's abdomen, held fast by short threads to the spinnerets.
The cushion, however, had disappeared.
The mystery (as it had seemed to him) was solved : the Lycosa after having placed her eggs in the centre of the silken cushion, and covered them over, had gathered up the edges and so united them and rolled them as to make the normal globular cocoon of her genus, which she at once tucked under her abdomen in the usual way.
This v/as a most interesting observation, and Dr. McCook thought had not before been made ; at least Lycosa's manner of fabricating a cocoon had been heretofore unknown to him ; and by reason of her subterranean habit the opportunity to observe it was rare.
He had often wondered how the round eggball was put together, and the mechanical ingenuity and simplicity of the method were now apparent.
The period consumed in the whole act of cocooning was less than four hours ; the act of ovipositing took less than half an hour.
Shortly after the egg-sac was finished, the mother cut her way out of the silken cover.
She had evidently thus secluded herself for the purpose of spinning her cocoon.
While feeding the spider some flies, the cave was accidentally filled up, and no effort had been made to dig another, although it is the custom of this genus, in natural environment, to remain pretty closely within such a habitation while carrying the cocoon.
One month after the above date (June 4), the spider was found with the young hatched, and massed upon her body from the caput to the apex of the abdomen.
The empty egg-sac still clung to the spinnerets, and the younglings were grouped over the upper part of the same.
The abdomens of the little spiders were of a light yellow color, the legs a greenish brown or slatecolor, and the whole brood were tightly compacted upon and around each other, the lower layers apparently holding on to the mother's body, and the upper upon those beneath.
Twenty-four hours thereafter, the cocoon-case was dropped, and the spiderlings clung to the mother alone.
An examination of the cocoon showed that the young had escaped through the thin seam or joint formed by the union of the egg-cover with the circular cushion, when the latter was pulled up at the circumference into globular shape.
There was no flossy wadding within — as is common with orb-weaving spiders, for example — nothing but the pinkish shells of the escaped young.
On June 11, about one hundred of the spiderlings had abandoned the maternal perch, and were dispersed over the inner surface of the jar, and upon a series of lines stretching from side to side.
About half as many more remained upon the mother's back; but by the 13th, all had dismounted.
Meantime, they had increased in size at least one-half, apparently without food.
Note on the Amphibious Habit of Lycosa.
— Dr. McCooK alluded to another interesting fact in the life-history of Lycosa, brought to his attention by Mr. Alan Gentry, This gentleman, during the winter, visited a pond in the vicinity of Philadelphia (Germantown) which was frozen over.
He cut a slab from the ice about eight to ten feet from the bank, and was surprised to see several spiders running about in the water.
They were passing from point to point by silken lines stretched underneath the surface between certain water-plants.
Several were captured, but unfortunatelj'^the specimens were not preserved.
Mr. Thomas G. Gentr}'^, who saw them, says that they were Lycosids, and from his description of the eyes he is evidently correct.
It is a remarkable and novel fact to find these creatures thus living in full health and activity in mid-winter within the waters of a frozen pond, and so far from the bank in which the burrows of their congeners are so common]}^ found.
It has been believed, heretofore, and doubtless it is generally true, that the Lycosids winter in deep burrows in the ground, sealed up tightly to maintain a higher temperature.
But the above observation opens up a new and very strange chapter in the winter behavior of these spiders, as well as in the amphibious nature of their habits.
Pentastomum proboscideum.
— Prof. Leidy exhibited specimens of this parasite, presented to him by Mr. Norman Spang, of Etna, Pa., who recently obtained them in Florida, from the lung of a large rattlesnake, Crotalus adamanteus..
They are cylindrical incurved, annulated, largest and rovmded at the head, tapering behind, and becoming again larger and rounded at the end ; and terminating ventrally in a short conical point.
There are six of them, with the following measurements : — 9 lines long by 1^ lines at the head; 13 lines by 1^ lines; 24 by 2h', 28 by 2i; 30 by 3, and 31 by 3.
The species was first found by Humboldt in Crotalus horridus.
It is common in the Boa constrictor, in which Professor Leidy had also observed it several times.
It has likewise been found in a number of other serpents.
Other species occur in diflferent mammals, including man, reptiles and fishes.
These singular parasites are regarded as the most degraded form of arachnida, in the mature stage being reduced to a worm-like, limbless body.
May 20.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Eighteen persons present.
The Nature of a Fasciated Branch.
— At the meeting of the Botanical Section on the 12th, Mr. Thomas Meehan called attention to a paper contributed by him to the Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science^ p. 27 Y, vol.
xix, 1870, in which, contrary to the accepted hypothesis that a fasciated branch was due to " over-luxuriance," or a high condition of vitality, he showed that the result was due to a degradation of vital power.
A number of phenomena conceded to result from low vital conditions, were shown to be inseparably connected with fasciation, the essential feature of which is the production of an extraordinary number of buds, with a corresponding suppression of the normal internodal spaces.
This is precisely the condition of a flowering branch ; and all its attendant phenomena find their analogue in a fasciated stem.
Taking a composite flower in illustration — a sunflower, for instance — we find on the receptacle a coil of many hundred florets, each floret with a chafl"y scale at the base.
Each of these florets in morpholog}^ represents a branch, and the scale a leaf or bract, from the axil of which the branch would have sprung.
If we imagine the head uncoiled, and everything in a normal vegetative condition, as distinct from the condition of inflorescence, we might have a sunflower plant a hundred feet high or more.
But with the approach to the flowering stage we have a suppression of vegetative development, with a highly accelerated development of buds, out of which are morphologized the floral parts.
The receptacle on which the involucral scales and other parts of inflorescence in a compound flower, had also its analogue in the thickened stems which bore the buds in a fasciated branch.
The phenomena which indicated low vital power in the fasciated branch, were all manifested in a flower.
Taking the test of vital power as the ability to retain life under equal circumstances, we find the leaves on a fasciated branch dying before those on the rest of the tree.
On the balsam fir, an evergreen, the leaves are wholly deciduous ; or a deciduous ally, the larch, the leaves mature before the others.
On other trees we find always the leaves enduring longer than those on the fasciated.
We sa}' the leaves on the latter have a lower vital power.
In severe winters the branches in the fasciation wholly die, in many cases, while those on other portions of the tree survive, and again we say, because they have a lower vital power.
Precisely^ the same circumstances attend inflorescence.
The leaves in their procession from a normal condition to petals lose this evidence of vitality in proportion to the degree of transformation.
The petal dies before the sepal, the sepal before the bract, and the bract before the leaves, in the general order of anthesia, in a compound flower, though there are cases where, secondary causes coming into play, this rule would be reversed, but, in a general way, the soundness of the point would not be disputed.
From all these facts in analog}it might be said in addition to the points brought out in the paper of 1870, above cited, that a fasciated branch is an imperfect and precocious attempt to enter on the flowering or reproductive stage.
On Rapid Changes in the History of Species.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited flowers of the remarkable Halesia noted at page 32, and remarked on the wide divergence reached without any intervening modifications from the original, and observed that it was another illustration of what he thought must now be generally accepted, that the maxim of Ray " Natura non facit saltum " itself needed modification.
He had called attention to this particular departure, among others, in a paper before the American Association for the Advancement of Science., in 1874 ;^ what he desired to do now was to emphasize a few of the points brought out prominently in that paper, that " Variations in species, as in morphological changes in individuals, are b}no means by gradual modifications ; that suddenly formed and marked variations perpetuate themselves from seeds, and behave in all respects as acknowledged species ; and that variations of similar characters would appear at times in widely separated localities."
In addition to the illustrations given in that paper, a remarkable one was aflbrded by the Richardia sethiopica^ the common " calla " of gardens, the present season.
Some four inches below the perfect flower a mere spathe was developed, partially green, but mostly white, as usual, but in this case we do not call it a spathe, but a huge bract.
In other words, the usually naked flower-scape of the Richardia had borne a bract.
Flowers with a pair of more or less imperfect spathes were not uncommon in some seasons ; the peculiarity of the present season was the interval of several inches on the stem, which justified the term of bract to the lower spathe.
From the vicinit}^ of Philadelphia numbers had been brought to him, and others had been sent from Ohio, Indiana and Illinois — some hundreds of miles apart.
What was the peculiarity in this season over others which induced the production of this bract, was one question.
Whatever it may have been, it operated in bringing about a change of character, without the intervention of seed, directly on the plant, and in Tn&ny widely separated places at the same time.
What is to prevent a law which operates exceptionally in one season, operating again and in a regular and continuous way ?
So far as we can understand there can be no reason ; and, if it should, we have a new species, not springing from a seed, or one individual plant — constituting one geographical centre of creation from which all subsequent descendants emigrated and spread themselves — but a whole brood of new individuals already widely distributed over the earth's surface, and entirely freed from the " struggle for existence " which the development of a species from a solitary individual presupposes.
Aside from the great value of this illustration of how the whole character of a species might be modified simultaneously 1 See Proc.
Amer.
Assoc.
Ad.
Science, vol.
xxiii, p. B.
9. over a wide extent of country, it afforded a lesson in environment.
External circumstances may influence modification, but only in a line already prepared for modification.
This must necessarily be so, or change would be but blind accident, whereas paleontology teaches us that change has always been in regular lines, and in co-ordinate directions which no accident has been able to permanently turn aside.
Just as in the birth of animals, we find, that however powerful may be some external law of nutrition, which, acting on the primary cell of the individual decides the sex, yet we see that no accident has been able to disturb the proportion of the sexes born, which has alwaj'S been, so far as we know, nearly equal.
So in the birth of species, making all allowance for the operation of environment, the primary plan has been in no serious way disturbed ; we have to grant something to environment in the production of new forms, but only as it may aid an innate power of change, ready to expend itself on action as soon as the circumstances favor such development — circumstances which after all have very little ability to determine what direction such change shall take.
We know that distinct forms do spring through single individuals from seed, and that, after battling successfully with all the vicissitudes of its surroundings, a new form may succeed in spreading, through the lapse of years or ages, over a considerable district of country.
But the idea that always and in all cases species have originated in this manner, presents, occasionally, difficulties which seem insurmountable.
In the case of the similarity between the flora of Japan and that of the eastern portion of the United States, we have to assume the existence of a much closer connection between the land over what is now the Pacific Ocean, in comparatively modern times, in order to get a satisfactory idea of the departure of the species from one central spot ; and to demand a great number of years for some plants to travel from one central birthplace before the land subsided, carrying back species in geological time further, perhaps, than mere geological facts would be willing to allow.
But if we can see our wa}'^ to a belief that plants may change in a wide district of country simultaneously in one direction, and that these changes once introduced, be able to perpetuate themselves till a new birth-time should arrive, we have a great advancement towards sinaplifying things.
May 27.
Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair.
Twenty-three persons present.
Mr. Henry N. Rittenhouse was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed : — NEW FOSSILS FROM THE FOUR GROUPS OF THE NIAGARA PERIOD OF WESTERN NEW YORK.
by eugfne n. s. eingueberg.
Medina Group.
Sphirophyton arohimedes (n.
sp.).
PL II, fig.
1.
Frond large, thick ; growing in loose spirals that gradually decrease in size from below upwards ; about two coils occur in the space of the diameter.
Surface on both sides crossed by broad, irregular, gently undulose, wavy plications, which radiate from the centre out towards the obtuse rounded margins in subspiral curves, which traverse about one-fourth of the coil, following the general spiral growth, which is sinistral.
This fucoid is specially remarkable for its thickness and loose spiral growth.
It differs from those figured by Hall by growing in decreasing spirals instead of expanding from below up.
From the upper friable bands of the Medina sandstone at Lockport.
Clinton Group.
TRIACRINUS (n. gen.).
Calyx symmetrical, subelongate, ovoid to pyriform.
Basals five, arranged in a bilaterally symmetrical series, the median of which is placed to the right of the anal, and is pentagonal ; the two next on either side are low quadrangular, and the outer adjoining two, which are wider than the others, are pentagonal and have their superior apices directed away from each other.
The second ring is tripartite and comprised of the large anal and the lower elongated and expanded portion of the two lateral anterior radials.
Anal very large, forming nearly one-third of the circumference of the calyx ; equilaterally heptagonal ; it rests on one of the quadrangular radials and laterally against the sloping sides of two adjacent pentangular ones.
The third or true radial ring is equally quinquepartite and has with the second ring — which is really but a modified portion of the third — a bilateral symmetry, but differing from that of the basals in its axis, which is governed by the anal.
Plates five, three small and two large, of subequal sizes ; upper portion incurved so as to form part of the brim of the dome ; deeply excavated above in the incurved portion, with dove-tailed notches to receive the brachials; first two radials on the posterior side small, resting on the sloping sides of the anal and the posteriorly expanded portion of the next radials ; lateral radials much elongated, so as to rest upon the basals ; and have the elongated portion much expanded, especially anterioi'ly, where they meet under the anterior radial : anterior radial small, supported by the lateral radials upon their expanded portion, which in the dextral one is supported by three basals like the anal, while the other rests on the two wider pentagonal basals and consequently has an acute inferior angle instead of a truncate one.
This anomalous genus should probably be placed next to Eyhocrinus with which it has some slight affinity.
So far found only in the Clinton Group.
Triacrinus pyriformis (n.
sp.).
PI.
Ill, fig.
1.
Calyx small, subpyriform.
Base broad, truncate, with a slight, flat, wide depression to receive the column which was here evidently about as broad ; leaving only a fine sharp projecting marginal ring.
Height to width as three to two.
Basals medium; first to the right of anal; acutely pentagonal, height and width about equal ; the quadrangular plates are about one-half as high as the pentagonal ones ; height to width as one to two ; the two adjoining pentagonal plates are as high as the other, and are wider than high ; extending nearly half way around the basal ring.
Second ring equally triehotomous.
Anal large, slightly wider than high.
First two posterior radials medium, obversely equiform with their lower and external lateral sides curving outwards ; lateral large radials slightly expanded posteriorly and widely anteriorly ; anterior radial equilateral, with lateral angles fitting into the expanded radials upon which it rests.
The wide dove-tailed incisions to receive the brachials are about two-thirds as wide as the upper part of the plates, at their lower expanded portion ; above which point the upper part of the plate is rather abruptly incurved.
Height three-eighths inch.
From the limestone of the upper portion of the Clinton Group at Lockport.
Triacrinus globosus (n.
sp.)
PI.
Ill, fig.
2.
Calyx small, globosely subovoid ; base large, deeply excavated with rounding margins ; sides evenly rounding from the base to the lateral apices of the incurved projections of the radials.
Basals incurved to receive the column, low at the sutures ; quadrangular basals very low, height to width as one to three ; about one-half of their height is incurved into the excavated base.
Anal large, almost as high as wide.
Expanded portion of the lateral radials wide, forming more than two-thirds of the second ring.
Anterior radial evenly rounding from the lateral sides to an acute inferior angle.
Expanded portion of the brachial notches about one-half as wide as the plate at that point.
The specific features of this species in comparison with the other, are the ovoid calyx, much more deeply excavated and rounded base, narrower brachial notches in the radials, and the evenly rounded sides of the small anterior radial.
Height same as last species ; width nearly equal to the height.
The specimen from which the description is taken is slightly distorted by pressure.
Locality and group the same as T. pyriforniis.
Stictopora obliqua (n.
sp.)
PI.
II, fig.
2.
Flat, large, broad and long, of equal width ; with a central band of upward-curving rounding lines of growth, which are irregular in distance from each other, and as regards strength ; they occupy from one-third to one-half of the surface, and are sometimes deflected slightly to one side or the other ; the outer ends of these striae of growth gradually disappear as they curve downwards and approach each other upon the flat, unstriated margins ; but occasionally one or two striae are more prominent than the rest, and extend further downwards and outwards.
Cells arranged in longitudinal and rectangular transverse rows on the unstriated marginal thirds ; from which point the transverse rows are deflected downwards, and meet with a rounding curve in the central portion.
The cells of the outer portions are sub-rhombic, with an outward inclination of their outer upper corners ; deflected rows of cells rhomboid, becoming gradually quadrangular towards the centre.
FUNGISPONGIA (n. gen.) Flattened ; spreading from a fixed point ; thinning out at the margin.
From the attached portions, numerous perforations, with smooth walls, radiate and branch out with many bifurcations and anastomoses in all directions towards the periphery, having numerous communications with the outer surface, which is quite smooth.
Fungispongia irregularis (n.
sp.)
PI.
Ill, fig.
3.
Flat, rather thin, irregularly spreading from a lateral or excentric point of growth.
Surface moderately convex ; rather abruptly beveled off to a sharp margin, which is somewhat irregular in contour.
Internal structure consisting of small, closely arranged radiating perforations, which, though apparently of a quite regular circular form separately, are very irregular in section, in consequence of the frequent bifurcations and intercommunications occurring in their outward course.
They do not always open directly upon the rather smooth surface, but are directed outwards towards the margin and frequently' end in furrows on the outside.
The specimen from which this description is taken, is somewhat weathered in the central part, so as to well show its structure.
From the siliceous bands of the Clinton at Lockport.
Niagara Transition Group.
Stictopora graminifolia (n.
sp.).
Pi.
ITT, fig.
4.
Very long and narrow, ribbon-like ; width one-eighth inch, even throughout, flat on the noncellular and slightly convex on the cellular side.
The striae of the lines of growth are abruptly arched in the centre, where they are accompanied by undulations of the surface having the same general curve, but which are confined to the central portion ; the stride grow more crowded as they gradually approach the margin, which they continue to do for a distance about equal to the width of the flat surface, where they become lost just before reaching it by being merged with others in common longitudinal strise, which extend some distance down the side before they become finally lost.
Central thii'd occupied by five or six longitudinal rows of cells, which continue throughout its entire length ; from these the lateral cells are directed in nearly straight lines obliquely outwards and upwards towards the margins, at an acute angle.
Cells twice as long or longer than their width and are arranged irregularly in the rows, without any apparent order.
The length of the specimen is two and one-fourth inches, which was not its entire length, several fragments having been lost off either end.
From the compact, fine-grained Niagara Transition Group limestone, which was described by me in the American Naturalist, Sept., 1882, at Gasport.
Niagara Group.
Eucalyptocrinus inconspectus (n.
sp.).
PI.
Ill, fig.
5.
Calyx large, cup-shaped, wide, upper part with perpendicular sides ; base rounding, obconical with a small excavation to receive the column.
Column and arms unknown.
Surface finely rugose ; rugse giving evidence of irregular radiations from the centre of the larger plates.
Basals concealed within the depression to receive the column.
First radials medium, rapidly expanding.
Second radials large, as high as wide.
The rest of the plates, excepting the elongate interradials and interbrachials, wider than high.
Radial plates, with the exception of the second, flattened or even slightly depressed, slightly wider than high.
This species may be distinguished from E. a-assus by the, comparatively, very shallow basal excavation which receives the column ; also by the finely rugose surface-markings, the rounding base and nearly parallel sides at the upper part of the calyx.
And from £J.
decorus by the longer calyx and surface-markings.
From the Niagara limestone at Lockport.
Cornulites contractus (n.
sp.).
PI.
Ill, fig.
6.
Shell much elongated, cylindrical or subcylindrical, very gradually tapering ; regularly sharply annulate ; longitudinally finely striate.
Growing attached to foreign bodies or in groups when young.
Annulations very sharply defined, equidistant ; about five to one-fourth inch in the larger specimens ; they rise bj^ an even curve from the rounded, contracted, inter-annular spaces and form sharp angular annulations.
Longitudinal striations prominent, closely arranged, and are strongest at the bottom of the trough-like depressions, having there the appearance of being minute plications produced by the contraction ; they grow fainter at the apex of the annulations, but continue over them to the next.
The sloping sides of the annulations sometimes bear one or two inconspicuous annulations which do not interfere with the contour of the shell.
The prominence and regularity of the annulations in the older portions of the shell will serve to distinguish it from G. proprius, with which it is associated, and to which it sometimes bears a superficial resemblance in the younger attached part.
From the Niagara shale at Lockport.
Cornulites nodosus (n.
sp.).
PI.
Ill, fig.
7.
Shell small, elongate, tapering graduallj^ to an attenuate, very sharp apex.
Growing on small foreign bodies ; attached throughout.
Surface smooth, ornamented by numerous closely arranged nodes, which increase in size as the shell enlarges, and are placed in regular rows across it ; the terminal ones being somewhat elongate and attached to the surface upon which it grows.
The largest specimen found measures five thirty-seconds of an inch in length.
From the Niagara shale at Lockport.
Lingula bicariaata (n.
sp.)
PI.
Ill, fig.
8.
Shell small, ovoid in outline ; beak very acute ; transverse diameter widest half way from the beak ; valves evenly rounding, convex ; with two hardly perceptible parallel median ridges commencing at the beak and extending to the outer margin, widening regularly as the shell increases in size.
Concentric striae fine, even, increasing regularly by several bifurcations.
From the Niagara Shale at Lockport.
The specimens described were all collected by myself, and the types are in my collection.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES.
Plate II.
1.
Spirophpton archimedes (n.
sp.)
Two -whorls of a large specimen, natural size, 1 a.
Lower side of a pait of a smaller fiond, showing more plainly the suhspiral undulat'ons.
2.
Stictopora obliqua (n.
sp.)
Natuial size.
3 a.
A small portion of it enlarged, showing the oblique downward curve of the transverse rows ; three diameters.
Plate IIL 1.
Triacrinus pyriformis (n. gen. et sp.)
; natural size.
a. Poster or side ; enlarged three diameters.
h. Anterior side ; enlarged thiee diameters.
c. Basal view ; enlarged three diameters.
d. Upper side ; enlarged three diameters.
e. Diagram of plates.
2.
Triacrinus globosus (n.
sp.)
The lettering of the figures same as last.
3.
Fungispongia irregularis (n. gen. et sp.)
a.
Section ; enlarged three diameters.
4.
Stictopora graminifolia (n. sp. )
a.
Portion ; enlarged three diameters.
5.
Eucalyptocrinus inconspectus (n.
sp.)
6.
Cornulites contractus (n.
sp.)
a.
A group of three individuals growing together.
6.
Surface of 6 ; enlarged three diameters.
7.
Cornulites nodosus (n.
sp.)
a.
Same individual ; enlarged three diameters.
8. lAngula hicarinata (n. sp. )
Interior of valve.
June 3.
Mr. Edward Potts in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
A paper, entitled " On the Mutual Relations of the Hemibranchiate Fishes," by Theodore Gill, was presented for publication.
Opposite Leaves in Salix nigra.
— At the meeting of the Botanical Section on June 2, Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that few botanists would expect to find opposite leaves in Salix; but in S. nigra Marshall, they appear at a certain stage of growth, which has much significance.
This species is of that section which has the flower cotetaneous with the leaves ; that is to sa3', instead of the aments being sessile they terminate short branches.
They are, however, not absolutely terminal, but appear so by the suppression for a time of the terminal bud.
In the case of the female ament this terminal bud usually starts to grow very soon after the flowers mature, and forms a second growth, when the fertile catkin or raceme of fruit, becomes lateral.
It is the first pair of leaves on this second growth that is opposite — all the rest are alternate as in the normal character of the genus.
The leaves are so uniformly opposite under these circumstances, that there must be some general law determining the condition, which has not yet been developed.
June 10.
Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair.
Fourteen persons present.
A paper, entitled " On the Anacanthine Fishes," by Theodore Gill, was presented for publication.
June 17.
Rev.
H. C. McCooK, D. D., "Vice-President, in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
A Spider that makes a spherical Mud-daub Cocoon.
— The Rev.
Dr. H. C. McCooK said that in November, 1883, he received from Mr. F. M. Webster, Assistant State Entomologist of Illinois, two globular nodules of earth, about the size of a grape, which were thought to be the cocoons of a spider.
Similar balls had often been found attached, by a slender thread or cord of silk, to the underside of boards laid down on the ground.
From some of these Mr. Webster had bred a parasitic ichneumon-fly.
One box, in which mud-balls had been placed the preceding summer, was found by him in the autumn (November) to contain such parasites together with a number of young spiders, all dead.
The spiders were not preserved, but the mud-balls were sent to the S|jeaker for determination.
One of these had an opening in the side about one millimetre in diameter from which evidently an ichneumon parasite had escaped.
It contained the stiff, white cell commonly spun by the larva of this insect.
The other resembled closely the spherical mud egg-nest of the wasp Eumenes, there being even a small nozzle at one pole, from which, however, unlike the mud-daub of the wasp, a slight silken cord protruded.
Dr. McCook was much puzzled to decide upon the nature of these objects, but on the wliole believed them to be the work of some hymenopterous insect, and not of a spider.
Two ichneumons, which emerged from similar cells, were determined by Mr. E. T. Cresson to be Pezomachus meabilis Cresson.
Subsequently Mr. Webster sent other specimens, some of which were opened.
They contained silken sacks imbedded in the centre of the mud-ball, apparently of spider spinning-work, and within these were fifteen or tv/enty yellowish eggs, evidently of a spider.
This, of course, modified the speaker's view, and he set aside the specimens, of which he had now a number, in the hope of hatching out the contents.
The disjecta membra of two adult spiders taken near the balls, though much broken, enabled him to determine them as Drassids (Drassoidas, a family of the Tubeweavers), and probably of the genus 3Iico,ria.
Mr. Webster simply found these near the mud-balls, but did not know that they had anj'^ connection with them.
Dr. McCook moistened the cocoons in order to give a natural condition more favorable for the escape of the spiderlings.
should they hatch, and May 30, 1884, on opening a box, he found about thirty lively young spiders therein.
On the bottom of the box was a dead ichneumon, wliich had cut its way out of the side of one of the balls, by a round hole.
The spiderlings seemed to have escaped from their ball along the slight duct left at the point where the bit of silken cord was imbedded in the hard earth, and thence protruded, forming the cocoon-stalk by which the ball was attached to an undersurface.
• The appearance of the spiderlings indicated that they had been hatched two or three days when first seen.
They were Drassids, evidently the same species as the broken specimens above alluded to.
Thus the interesting habit of concealing her future progeny within a globular cradle of mud was demonstrated to belong to a spider, as well, as to a wasp.
That this particular species is much subject to the attacks of hj^menopterous parasites is already proved ; but that it is more exposed than many other species which spin silken cocoons otherwise unprotected in the very same locality, does not appear.
There is no evidence that so strange a habit has developed from necessity, and none that it proves more protective than the ordinary araneal cocoonery.
Mr. Webster has found these mud-cocoons throughout the whole range of Illinois, a State of great longitudinal extent.
Two balls from Southern Illinois are larger than the others, and composed of yellowish earth, but Dr. McCook had not yet succeeded in breeding anything from them.
The balls from Central Illinois are made out of the rich black soil common to the prairies ; the spiderlings hatched were from this section.
He had named the species provisionally Micaria limnicunae {limnus^ mud; curiae, a cradle), but thought it possible that Hentz may have described the species among some one of his genus Herpyllus.
The young have pale yellow abdomens, of uniform color, and legs and cephalothorax of a uniform livid or stone-color.
The adults (females) are of a uniform dark amber color ; the cephalothorax glossy, leathery and smooth.
The cephalic part is depressed below the thoracic part, sloping forward and downward.
The body length is about one-fourth inch.
The only spider cocoons known to the speaker at all resembling those of Limnicunae he had collected in a field at Alexandria Bay, New York, on the St. Lawrence River, 1882.
They were attached by very loose spinning-work to the underside of stones.
But the external case instead of being mud, was a mass of agglomerated particles of old wood, bark, leaves, blossoms, the shells and wings of insects, etc.
These were evidently gnawed off, gathered and placed together, and then held in position by delicate and sparsely-spun filaments of silk.
Two of these chip-balls were opened, and contained whitish cocoons similar to those in the mud-balls of Limnicunae ; another had within it the characteristic cell of some hymenopterous parasite, containing a driedup pupa.
A very thin veneering of yellow soil enclosed the silken case, but otherwise no mud was used.
He put aside three specimens which remained, in the hope of hatching out and thus determining the species of the maker, but nothing ever appeared, and he had not wished to destroy such interesting specimens for the sake of knowing the condition of the interior.
But on comparing these specimens with those of Mr. Webster as now before him.
Dr. McCook believed that they were the work of closely related, or perhaps even the same species.
It is quite common for spiders of various and widely separated families to give their cocoons a protective upholstering of scraped bark, old wood, etc., and not unusual to find species that cover their egg-nests wholly or in part with mud.
But the speaker was not aware that an}^ species had yet been published as making cocoons like either of the above-described forms.
He believed, therefore, that the facts were wholly new to science — certainly they were new to the field of American Araneology.
The following were ordered to be printed : — 11 ON THE MUTUAL RELATIONS OF THE HEMIBRANCHIATE FISHES, BY THEODORE GILL.
§ 1.
Introductory.
In my "Arrangement of the Families of Fishes," (1872, p. 13, 14) before I was aware of the peculiarities of the shoulder girdle, and only knowing the characters assigned to the order by Cope, I retained the Hemibranchii in the order Teleocephali, but in the introductory commentary (p, xxxix) I raised the group to ordinal rank, to which it seems entitled.
Prof.
Cope, however, is entitled to the credit of having first appreciated the distinctness of the group as a whole, although the characters assigned to it were not, perhaps, of the highest systematic value.
As now understood, the order seems to be definable as follows : — HEMIBRANCHII.
= Hemibranchii, Cope, Pfoc.
Am.
Ass.
Adv.
Science, v. 20, p. 338, 1872.
= Hemibranchii, Gill, Arrangement Families Fishes, p, xxxix, 1873 (Based on shoulder girdle).
= Hemibranchii, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Phil, Soc, v. 13, p. 25, 1873.
= Hemibranchii, Gill, Johnson's New Universal Cyclopasdia, v. 2, p. 872, 1877 (defined).
= Hemibranchii, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p. 387, 1882.
Acanthopterygii, fam., auct.
plur.
In the " Arrangement of the Families of Fishes " (1872, pp.
13, 14), six families were recognized for the Hemibranchs, whose combinations and correspondence with the families of previous authors are shown in the following abstract : — " (H.
Gasterosteiformes.)
( Gasterosteoidea. )
183.
OasterosteidcB O aster osteidce, Gthr., i, 1-7, 134.
Aulorhynchidm AulorhynchoidcB, Gill, P. A, N. S.
Phil., 1862, 233, (Aulostomoidea.)
135.
AulostomidcB Fistulariida, Gthr., iii, 529, 535-538.
136.
MstulariidcB Fistnila/riidm, Gthr., iii, 529-534.
(H.
Centrisciformes.)
137.
Centriscidm Centriscidm, Gthr., iii, 518-524.
138.
Amphisilidm Centriscidm, Gthr., iii, 518, 524-527."
In the " Introduction to the Study of Fishes " (1880, p. 50T), Dr. Giinther has referred the Aulorhynchoid fishes to the family Fistulariidse.
In the " Synopsis of theFishes of North America " (1 882, p. 387), five families were recognized for American species by Messrs. Jordan & Gilbert, and grouped as follows : — " * Bones of head produced into a long tube, which bears the short jaws at its end.
a.
Body short, compressed, scaly ; no teeth ; spinous dorsal present.
..... Centriscidae, 60. aa.
Body elongate ; teeth present.
6.
Dorsal spines none ; a long caudal filament ; no scales.
Fistulariidae , 61 bb.
Dorsal spines present, disconnected ; no caudal filament, c. Body covered with ctenoid scales.
Aulostomatidae, 62. cc.
Body scaleless, with bony shields.
Aulorhynchidae^ 63.
** Bones of head moderately produced ; ventrals 1,1; dorsal preceded by free spines ; body scaleless, naked or mailed.
Gasterosteidae, 64."
On a recent review of the forms of the order, I am more than ever convinced of the aptness of the classification proposed by myself in 1872 and submit the following table and characters which will, I think, amply justify that confidence.
Far from being able to see any close affinity between the Aulorhynchidae and Aulostomidse, I am Unable to appreciate any very distinctive differences from the Gasterosteidae, and the close affinity between Aulorhynchus and Spinachia is such that I regard the family Aulorhynchidae simply as a convenient one at the most, and as expressing the culmination in one direction of the tendency characteristic of the order.
I should be scarcely disinclined to dissent from any who should combine the Gasterosteidae and Aulorhynchidae in one family.
§ 2.
Synopsis of Families.
I. Dermal armature absent or developed only as plates on sides or back; vertebrae numerous (30 to 86) ; pubic bones connected with scapular arch ; spinous dorsal represented by isolated spines.
1.
Vertebrae anteriorly little enlarged ; ventrals subthoracic, with enlarged spines {G aster osteoidea).
a. Branchiostegal rays three ; ventrals with one ray each ; snout conic or but slightly tubiform.
Gasterosteidse.
b. Branchiostegal rays four ; ventrals with four rays each ; snout tubiform.
.... Aulorhynchidae.
2.
Vertebrae anteriorly (first four) elongate ; ventrals subabdominal or near middle, without spines, but with 6 (or 5) rays (Aulostomoidea).
c. Dorsal spines developed, weak ; body compressed, moderately long, with ctenoid scales.
.
.
Aulostomidse.
d. Dorsal spines undeveloped ; body depressed or subcylindrical, very long, without scales (caudal with the two middle rays produced into a long filament).
Fistulariidae.
II.
Dermal armature superficial, developed anteriorly and especially about the back; four anterior vertebrae much elongate ; tail with its axis continuous with that of the abdomen ; branchihj^als and pharyngeals mostly present (fourth superior branchihyal and first and fourth superior pharyngeals only wanting) ; pubic bones not connected with the scapular arch; a spinous dorsal fin developed (Macrorhamphosoidea).
.
.
.
.
, Macrorhamphosidae.
III.
Dermal armature connate with the internal skeleton, and developed as (1) a dorsal cuirass in connection with the neuropophyses and (2) lateral shields connected with the ribs ; vertebrae reduced ; six or more anterior vertebrae extremely elongate, with normal articulations of centra ; tail with its axis deflected from that of the abdomen by encroachment of a dorsal cuirass over the dorsal fin ; branchial system feebly developed (fourth superior branchihyal and all the superior pharyngeals wanting) ; pubic bones not connected with the scapular arch ; a spinous dorsal feebly developed under the posterior projection of the dorsal buckler.
(Amphisiloidea) .
.
Amphisilidee.
§ 3.
Diagnoses of Groups.
GASTEROSTEID^.
Synonyms as families.
< Atractosomes, Dumeril, Zool.
Anal., 14e fam., p. 124, 1806.
■< Acanti, Jlafinesque, Indice d'lttiolog.
Siciliana, 15.
oid., p. 18, 1810.
■< Atractomia ( Garanxia), Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, 8e fam., p. — , 1815.
< Scomberoides, Cuvier, Regne Animal [1.
ed.
], t. 2, p. 311 (319), 1817.
< Percoides?
Latreille, Fam.
Nat.
du Regne Animal, p. 135, 1825.
< Centronotides, Risso, Hist.
Nat.
de I'Europe Merid., t. 3, p. 426, 1826.
< Zeid'P, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc.
v. 2, p. 241, 1839.
<^ Tnglidm {Qasterosteini), Bonaparte, Giorn.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 32), 1832.
= Qasterosteida, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, p. 133, 1838; t. 4, p. 275, 1840.
= Gasterosieidce, Girard, Expl.
and Surv.
for R. R. Route to Pacific Oc, V. 10, Fishes, p. 84, 1858.
=: Gasterosteoidei, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Pise.
Archip.
Ind., p. xxiii, 1859.
= Gasterosteidm, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 1, p. 1, 1859.
= Gasterosteoida', Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 39, 1861.
=r Gasterosteidce, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Assoc.
Adv.
Sci., v. 20, p. 338, 1872.
= Gasierostei, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber.
K. Akad.
der Wissensch, (Wien), B.
67, 1.
Abth., p. 34, 1873.
= Gasterosteidce, Giinther, Int.
to Study of Fishes, p. 504, 1880.
= GasterosteidiF, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., pp.
387, 393, 1833.
Percoides [?
], Latreille, 1825.
Triglidnp, Subf.
Gasterosteini, Bonaparte, 1832.
Hemibranchs with the anterior vertebrae little enlarged, a more or less fusiform body, conic or moderately produced snout, sides naked, or with a row of bony shields, and ventrals subthoraclc, each with a large spine, and one or two rays.
Apeltinse.
Gasterosteids with post-thoracic ventrals, pubic bones widely separated behind and extending on the sides, a moderately projecting snout, and a moderate caudal peduncle.
APELTES.
= Apeltes (Brevoort), Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 39, 1861 ; Canad.
Nat., n. s., V. 2, p. 8.
= Apeltes, Jordan, Man.
Vertebrates Northern U. S., p. 249, 1876.
< Gasterosteus, Sauvage, Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat.
Paris, t. 10, pp.
7, 29, 1874.
(Subgenus).
Apeltines with the branchial apertures restricted and three free dorsal spines.
Type, A quadracus = Gasterosteus quadracus Mitch.
Gasterosteinse.
Synonyms as subfamilies.
< Q aster osteini, Bonaparte, Giom.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 32), 1832 ; Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, p. 133, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 275, 1840.
< Gasterosteinm, Gill, Cat, Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 39, 1861 ; Canad.
Nat., n. s., V. 2, p. 8, 1865.
Gasterosteids with post-thoracic ventrals, pubic bones connected and constituting a triangular median plate, a moderately projecting snout, and a moderate caudal peduncle.
EUCALIA.
Jordan.
^Eucalia, Jordan, Man.
Vertebrates Northern U. S., p. 248, 1876.
Gasterosteus sp., Kirtland, Agassiz, et al.
Gasterosteines with the branchial apertures confluent, and four or five non-divergent and equally reclinable free dorsal spines.
Type, E. inconstans = Gasterosteus inconstans Kirtland.
PYGOSTEUS.
<C Leiurus, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
175, 242 (subgenus).
= Pygosteus (Brevoort), Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 39, 1861 ; Canad.
Nat., n. s., v. 2, p. 8.
= Pygosteus, Jordan, Man.
Vertebrates Northern U. S., p. 249, 1876.
=: Gasterostea, Sauvage, Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat.
Paris, t. 10, pp.
7, 29, 1874.
(Subgenus).
Gasterosteus sp., Artedi, Linnaeus, Lacepede, Cuvier, Fleming, Cuv.
& Val., Girard, Giinther, etc.
Gasteracanthus sp., Pallas.
Gasterosteines with the branchial apertures confluent (the branchiostegal membrane having a free inferior margin), and seven to eleven generally divergent spines.
Type, P. pungitius = Gasterosteus pungitius L. GASTEROSTEUS.
< Gasterosteus, Artedi, Genera Piscium, p. 52, 1738.
< Gasterosteus, Linnaeus, Syst.
Nat., ed.
x, t. 1, p, 295, 1758.
<; Gasterosteus, Lacepede, Hist, des Poissons, t. 3, p. — , 1802.
<; Gasteracanthus, Pallas, Zoographia RossoAsia tica, t. 3, p. 228 (1811), 1831, <C Gasterosteus, Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ire 6d., t. 2, p. 300, 1817.
(Subgenus).
< Gasterosteus, Fleming, Hist.
Brit.
Animals, p. 219, 1828.
<^ Gasterosteus, Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
des Poissons, t. 4, p. 479, 1829.
X Gasterosteus, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
175, 242, 1839.
X Leiurus, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
175, 242.
(Subgenus).
<; Gasterosteus, Girard, Expl.
and Surv.
for R. R. Route to Pacific Oc, v. 10, Fishes, p. 85, 185 S. < Gasterosteus, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 1, p. 2, 1859.
= Gasterosteus, Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 39, 1861 ; Canad.
Nat., n. s., V. 2, p. 8, 1865.
<^ Gasterosteus, Sauvage, Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
d'Hist, Nat.
Paris, t. 10, pp.
7, 9, 1874.
(Subgenus.)
= Gasterosteus, Jordan, Man.
Vertebrates Northern U. S., p, 248, 1876.
Gasterosteines with the branchial apertures restricted (the branehiostegal membrane being attached below), and two free divergent spines.
Type, G. aculeatus L. Spinachiinse.
Synonymy.
SpinacManm, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Phila., v. 14, p. 233, 1862.
SpinachiincB, Gill, Johnson's New Universal Cycl., v. 4, p. 558 (under "Stickle-back"), 1878.
Gasterosteids with a very projecting subtubiform snout, subabdominal ventrals, and elongated caudal peduncle.
SPINACHIA.
= Les Gastres (Spinachia), Cuvier, Regne Animal, t. 2, p. 320, 1817.
= Spinachia, Fleming, Hist.
Brit.
Animals, p. 219, 1828.
=^ Polycanthus, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
175, 242.
^ Gastrma, Sauvage, Nouv.
Arch, Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat.
Paris, t. 10, pp.
7, 29, 1874.
(Subgenus).
Gasterosteus sp., Linn., et al, Spinachiines of unique type.
Type, S. vulgaris = Gasterosteus spinachia Linn.
AULORHYNCHIDiE3.
Synonyms as family names.
= Aulorhynehoidce, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
[v. 14], p. 233, 1862.
= AulorhynchidcB, Gill, Arrangement Families Fishes, p. 14, 1872.
= Aulorhynchidm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes, N.
Am., pp.
387, 391, 1883.
MstulariidcB, gen., Giinther.
Synonym as subfamily name.
= AulorhyncUnm, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci, Phila.
[v. 13], p. 169, 1861, Hemibranclis with the anterior vertebrae little enlarged, an elongated .
subcylindrical body, elongated tubiform snout ; sides with a row of bony shields, and ventrals subthoracic, with a spine and four rays each.
AULORHYNCHTIS.
= Aulorhynchus, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
So.
Phila.
[v. 13], p. 169, 1861.
= Auliscops, Peters, Monatsber.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wiss., 1866, p. 510, 1866.
Aulorhynchids with a smooth-skinned crown and tube, lateral plates unarmed and hidden in the skin, dorsal spines (25-26) moderately short, and naked back.
Type, A. flavidus Gill.
AULICHTHYS.
— AuUchthys (Brevoort), Gill, Proc, Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
[v. 14], p. 234, 1863.
Aulorhynchus sp., Steindachner, Aulorhynchids with a corrugated crown and rostral tube, lateral plates each armed with a longitudinal posteriorly spinous ridge, dorsal spines (about 25) very short and transversely triangular, and reclining in grooves, behind each of which is a small plate.
Tj^pe, A. Japonicus (Brev.)
Gill, AULOSTOMID-ffil.
Synonymy.
<^ Aulostomides, Latreille, Fam.
Nat.
du Regne Animal, p. 129, 1825.
<^ AulostomatidcB, Cantor, Cat.
Malayan Fishes, p. 211, 1850.
= Aulostomatoidei, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archip.
Ind., p. xxiii, 1859.
< Aulosiomatoids, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
[v. 13], p. 168, 1861.
= AulostomidcB, Gill.
Arrangement Families Fishes, p. 14, 1872.
<; Aulostomateidce, Cantor, Day, Fi.shes of India, v. 1, p. 360, 1878.
= AulostomatidcB, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., pp.
387, 390, 1883.
Bouches en flute, gen., Cuvier.
MstularidcB, gen., Giinther, et al.
Hemibranchs with the first four vertebrae elongated, the form elongated compressed, with an elongated tubiform mouth ; the body covered with cycloid scales, with subabdominal ventrals composed of six rays but without spines, and with a series of dorsal spines.
AULOSTOMA.
= Aulostoma, Lacepede, Hist.
Nat.
des Poissons, t. 5, p. 357, 1803.
< Polppterichthys, Bleeker, Natuurk.
Tijdschr.
Nederlandsch Indie, v. 4, p. 608.
Fistularia sp., Linn.
Solenostomus sp., Gronow.
Aulostomids with a much compressed bod}', rudimentary teeth, 8-12 dorsal spines, opposite oblong dorsal and anal (with 23-28 rays each), and a cuneiform caudal.
Type, A. chinensis = Fistularia chinensis Linn.
PISTULARIID^, Synonyms as family names.
< Siphonostomes, Dumeril, Zool.
Anal., 23e fam., p. 138, 1806.
CentriscMni?
Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiologia Siciliana, p. 34, 1810.
< Siphostomia (Aulostomia), Rafinesque, Aualyse de la Nature, 20e fam., p. — , 1815.
< Bouchea en flute, Cuvier, Regne Animal [Ire ed.
], t. 2, p. 348, 1817; 2e ed., t. 2, p. 267, 1829.
< Aulostomides, Latreille, Fam.
Nat.
du Regne Animal, p. 129, 1825.
< Centrisecides, Risso, Hist.
Nat.
de I'Europe Merid., t. 3, p. 47(5, 1826.
< Fistularidm, Bonaparte, Giom.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 35), 1832; Isis, 1833, col. 1200.
< Scomberidce (FistularincB), Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., V. 2, pp.
175, 240, 1839.
< Fistularidm, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, p. 132, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 190, 1840.
< Fistularioidei^ Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel.
Indico, fam.
133, p. xxvi, 1859.
< FistulariidoB, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 3, p. 529, 1861.
< Fistulariidw, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Assoc.
Adv.
Sc, v. 20, p. 339, 1872.
= Fistulariidm, Gill, Arrangement Families Fishes, p. 14, 1872.
(Named only.)
< Fistularia, Fitzingcr, Sitzungsber.
K. Akad.
der Wissensch.
(Wien), B.
67, 1.
Abth., p. 35, 1873.
< Fistulariidm, Giinther, Int.
to Study of Fishes, p. 507, 1880.
— Fistulariidm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., pp.
387, 388, 1882.
Synonyms as subfamily names.
<^ Fistularini, Bonaparte, Giorii.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 53 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animal Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 35), 1833 ; Isis, 1833, col. 1200.
<; Fistularini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annale delle Sc.
Nat., t. 2, p. 133, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 190, 1840.
= Mstularinm, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 3, pp.
175, 240, 1839.
Hemibranchs with the first four vertebrae very long; a very elongated and somewhat depressed body ; a long tubiform snout ; without scales, with the ventrals near the middle, and having five or six ra3'^s each, but no spines, and without dorsal spines (the two middle rays of the caudal produced and united into a long filament).
FISTaLAEIA.
<; Solenostomus, Klein.
< Fistularia, Linn., Syst.
Nat., 10.
ed., v. 1.
= Fistularia, Lac, Hst.
Nat.
des Poissons, t. 5, p. 349. := Channorhynehus, Cantor, Cat.
Malayan Fish., p. 311.
(Proposed on account of preoccupation of Fistularia by Donati.)
Fistulariids of unique genus.
Type, F. tabaccaria Linn.
MACRORHAMPHOSIDJE.
Synonyms as family names.
<C Aphyostomes, Dumeril, Zool.
Anal., 5.
fam., p. 108, 1806.
^ Centrischini, Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiologia Siciliana, p. 34 (33. ord.^), 1810.
< Siphostomia (Aulostomia), Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, 30.
fam., p. — , 1815.
< Bouches en flute, Cuvier, Regne Animal, t. 2, p. 348, 1817.
< Aulostomides, Latre'lle, Fam.
Nat.
du Regne Animal, p. 139, 1835.
< Centriscides, Rsso, Hist.
Nat.
de I'Europe Merid., t. 3, p. 476, 1836.
< Fistularidce (Cei'tiiscini), Bonaparte, Giom.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 53 (Saggio.
Distrib.
Metod.
Animal.
Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 35), 1833 ; Isis, 1833, col. 1200.
< Fistularidm, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sc.
Nat., t. 3, p. 133, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 190, 1840.
< Fistularidce, Bonaparte, Cat.
Metod.
dei Pesci Europei, pp.
7, 70, 1846.
= Centriscoidei, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
PisciUm Archipel.
Indico, p. xxiii, 1859.
< CentriicidcB, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 3, p. 518, 1861.
Macroramphosus is included in the 35. ord.
Siluridi (p.
35.)
= Centriscidm, Gill, Arrangement Fam.
Fishes, p. 25, 1873.
< Centrisci, Fitznger, Sitzungsber.
K. Akad.
der Wissensch.
(Wien), B, 67, 1.
Abth.. p. 35, 1873, = Centriscidoe, Joidan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N. A., p. 387, 1882.
Subfamily synonyms.
<l Centriscini, Bonaparte, Giorn.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 53 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 35), 1833 ; Isis, 1833, p. 1200.
<^ Centriscini, Bonaparte, 1850.
= CentriscincB, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc, Phila., 1862, p. 234, 1862, < Orthichthyinm, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Phila,, 1863, p. 334, 1862, Heroibranchs with the four anterior vertebrae much lengthened; bony plates anteriorly and especialh^ about the back ; an elongated tubiform mouth ; abdominal ventrals with a spine and several rays ; a small distinct spinous dorsal about the middle of the body ; with the branchihyals and pharangeals mostly present, the fourth superior branchihyal, and first and fourth superior pharyngeals only wanting.
MACKORHAMPHOSUS.
= Macrorhamphosus, Lacepede, Hist.
Nat.
des Poissons, t. 5, p. 136, = Ceniriscus, Cuvier, Regne Animal, 1.
ed., t. 3, p. 350, 1817.
> Orthichthys, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1862, p. 234, 1863.
Macrorhamphosids with an oblong body, graduating into the caudal peduncle, straight back, and about seven dorsal spines.
Type, M. scolopax = Gentriscus scolopax Linn., 1766.
As Messrs. Jordan & Gilbert have recently shown (Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., V. 5, p. 575, 1883), the only species referred by Linnaeus at first to the genus Gentriscus, was the G. scutatus (afterwards taken as the type of Amphisile) , a.nd consequently Gentriscus cannot be properly used as the designation of the present genus.
The name Macrorhamphosus, being the first applicable, although imposed by mistake, may be used for it.
It is unfortunate that the change should have to be made, and, although fully conversant with the status years ago, I hesitated to propose it.
Nevertheless with such excellent authorities as Messrs. Jordan & Gilbert to recognize its necessity, I no longer refuse to accede to the change.
CENTBISCOfS.
= Centriscops, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat, Sci.
Phila.
1862, p, 234, 1862.
Centrisctis sp., Richardson, et al.
164 PROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884.
Macrorhamphosids with a deep body, abruptly contracted caudal peduncle, an excurrent peaked back, and about four to five dorsal spines.
Type, G. humerosus = Centriscus humerosus Richardson.
AMPHISILID^.
Family Synonyms.
= AmpMsiloidei, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Arcliip.
Ind., p, xvi, 1859 ; Atlas Ich.
des Indes Neerland., t. 5, p. xv, 1865. := AmphisiUdcB, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Assoc.
Adv.
Sci., v, 20, p. 338, 1873.
= AmphisilidcB, Gill, Arrangement Families Fishes, p. 25, 1872.
Subfamily Synonym.
= AmpMsilinm, Gill, Proc.
Acad, Nat.
Sci, Phila, (v. 14).
p. 284, 1862.
< CentriscidcB, pt., Giinther, 1861, < Oentrisci, pt., Fitzinger, 1873.
Hemibranchs with six or more anterior vertebrae extremely elongated, the caudal much abbreviated, paired selliform dorsal plates connected with the neuropophyses of the dorsal vertebrae, and lateral ones developed in connection with the ribs, an elongated tubiform mouth, abdominal ventrals, two dorsals, and with the entire caudal portion of the body deflected downwards by the encroachment of the dorsal cuirass over the dorsal fins ; and with the " fourth supra-branchihyal, and all the superior pharyngeals wanting " (Cope).
CENTRISCTIS.
=^ Centriscus, Linn., Syst.
Nat., 10, ed., v. 1.
< Centriscus, Linn., Syst.
Nat., 12.
ed., v. 1.
< Amphisile (Klein), Cuvier, Regne Animal, t. 2, p. 350, 1817.
= Acentrachme, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci, Phila.
(v. 14), p. 234, 1862.
= Amphisile, s, g, Acentrachme, Liitken, Vid.
JVIedd.
Naturhist.
Foren, Kjobenhavn, 1865, p. 215, 1866.
Amphisilids without a movable spine connected with the posterior process of the dorsal cuirass.
Type, G. scutatus.
AMPHISILE.
< Amphisile, Klein, Hist.
Piscium Nat.
promov.
Miss., p. 28, 1744 (not binomial), < Amphisile, Cuvier, Regne Animal, t. 2. p. 350, 1817.
= Amp7dsile, Gill, Proc, Acad.
Nat, Sci, Phila.
(v, 14), p, 234, 1862, =^ Amphisile.
s. g. Amphisile, Liitken, Vid.
Mcdd.
Naturhist.
Ftireu.
Kjobenhavn, 1865, p. 215, 1866.
AmpWsilids with a spine at the posterior process of the dorsal cuirass.
Type, A. strigata = Amphisile sp., Klein.
§ 4.
Extinct Families.
In addition to these types, all represented in the existing faunas, there are two fishes no longer living, which cannot be referred to any of the families as now restricted, but appear to be types of peculiar ones.
They are the Urosphen fistularis and Bhamphosus aculeatus of Agassiz ; both have been found in the celebrated fish-beds of Mount Bolca.
These have been referred to the family Fistulariidae by Dr. Giinther, but one of them is more nearly related to the Macrorhamphosidee and Gasterosteidae.
They are imperfectly known, but appear to be distinguishable as family t3'pes by the following characters, which will doubtless be supplemented by others when well-preserved specimens or characteristic parts shall be critically examined.
UROSPHENIDiE.
Hemibranchs with the first four vertebrae much elongate, a moderately elongated body, a long tubiform mouth (ventrals abdominal?
dorsal unknown), and a very large cuneiform caudal.
RHAMPHOSID^.
Hemibranchs with the anterior vertebra normal (not elongated) and separate, about 22 (8 abdominal and 14 caudal) vertebrae in all, plates on the nape and shoulders only, with a tubiform mouth, subthoracic ventrals, a dorsal spine behind the nuchal armature, and the second dorsal and anal far behind and opposite.
§ 5.
The Pegasidse.
Finallj', there is a family which has been shifted from place to place in the system, and which has been referred by Prof.
Cope to the order Hemibranchii.
Its type was regarded as a chondropterygian by Linnaeus and the elders, as a syngnathoid fish by Cuvier ; first isolated in a family by Latreille ; received the family name Pegasidae from H. Adams in 1854 ; was pronounced to be related to the Agonidae by Steenstrup in 1866 ; placed next to them by Giinther (Int., p. 482, 1880), and relegated to the Hemibranchii by Cope.
It has also been regarded as the representative of a peculiar order (" ordo 12.
Pegasi "), of the " sublegio " Lophobranchii by Bleeker, and as a suborder (Hypostomides) of the order Lophobranchii by A. Dumeril.
Having no skeleton to examine, I retain it in the present order solely on the authority of Prof.
Cope, and with some doubt as to its right herein.
PEGASIDJE.
Family SynonymSi <C Spherionidi?
Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiolog.
Siciliana, p. 40, 1810.
< Pomanchia, Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, 25.
fam., 1815.
= Bypostomides, Latie He, Fam.
Nat.
du Regne Animal, p. 117, 1825.
<^ SyngnathidcB, Bonaparte, Giorn.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod, Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 39), 1832 ; Isis, 1833, c. 97, 119.
< Syngnathidm, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
195, 831, 1839, < Syngnathidce, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, p. 130, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 185, 1840.
<[ Sippocampidce, Nardo, Atti Congressi Scienz.
Ital.
rac.
et ord., v. 1, p. 70 (1842), 1845.
= PegasidcB, Kaup, Archiv fur Naturg., 19.
Jahrg., B.
1, p^ 227, 1853 ; also Cat.
Lophobr.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., p. 3, 1856.
= PegasidcB, Adams, Manual Nat.
Hist., p. 94, 1854.
= Pegasoidei, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel.
Indico, p. xv, 1859.
— Pegasidoe, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 8, p. 146, 1870.
= Pegasidce, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Assoc.
Adv.
Sci., v. 20, p. 339, 1872.
= Pegasi, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber.
K. Akad.
der Wissensch.
(Wien), B.
67, 1.
Abth., p. 49, 1873.
= PegasidcB, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc, v. 13, p» 25, 1873.
Subfamily Synonyms.
= Pegasini, Bonaparte, Giom.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 39), 1832.
= Pegasini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, x, p. 130, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 186, 1840.
= Pegasini, Nardo, Atti Congressi Scienz.
Ital.
rac.
et ord., v. 1, p. 70 (1842), 1844.
= Pegasini, Bonaparte, Catal.
Metod.
Pesci Europe!, pp.
9, 89, 1846.
* Hemibranchs?
with the snout projecting and the mouth inferior.
ON THE ANACANTHINE FISHES.
BY THEODORE GILL.
Under the name Anacanthini have been grouped those Teleost fishes which have " vertical and ventral fins without spinous rays; the ventral fins, if present, are jugular or thoracic; airbladder, if present, without pneumatic duct " (Giinther, Int.
to Study of Fishes, p. 537, 1880).
These characters are not reinforced by any others, but nevertheless the fishes so characterized have been segregated by most ichthyologists into an "order."
The propriety of such valuation was disputed by the present writer in 1861 (Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N.
Am., p. 7 ), and the group degraded to the rank of a suborder, and subsequently (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Phila., 1863, p. 255), the genus Zoarces was transferred to it and associated with the Lycodinse and Gymnelinae in the same family.
The American ichth3-ologists have generally acceded to the propriety of this degradation of the Anacanthini to subordinal rank.
Most have also conceded the propriety of the association of Zoarces with the forms indicated, as has also Prof. Collett of Norway (Den Norske Nordhavs Expedition 1876-1878; Ficke, p. 78-79, 1880), although Prof.
Cope has still retained Zoarces among the Blenniidae.
The subordinate rank of the Anacanthini appears indeed to be too evident to need further emphasis in this place, and its value as a suborder, or even as a natural and homogeneous group,may be justly questionad and denied.
Nevertheless, for the sake of convenience at least, the collection ma}'^ be provisionally (and only provisionally) preserved.
The group under various names has been adopted by European authors, and the following are synonyms, exclusive of those pertaining to the Heterosomatous types.
JUGULARES OR ANACANTHINI.
Synonymy.
X [Holobranches'\ Jngulaires, Bumeril, Zoologie Analytique, p. Ill, 1806.
X [Solobranches] Apodes, Dumeril, Zoologie Analytique, p. 117, 1806.
X Chorizopia, Rafine:-que, Analyse de la Nature, p. — , 1815.
(Suborder.)
X [.Tetr apodes] Jugulaires, De Blainville, Journal de Physique, t. 83, p. 255, 1816.
(Suborder.)
X [Apodes] De Blainville, Journal de Physique, t. 83, p. 255, 1816.
X iMalacoptery glens'] Subbranchiens, Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ire ed., t. 2, p. 211, 1817.
(Tribe.)
X Jugulaires Malacopterygiens, Risso, Hist.
Nat.
de I'Europe, t. 3, p. 214, 1827.
(Tribe.)
X Apodes, Risso, Hist.
Nat.
de I'Europe, t. 3, p. 189, 1827.
(Order.)
X Lotes, Oken, Lehrbuch der Naturgeschichte, 1816.
X Malacopterygii, Bonaparte, Giom.
Accad.
di Sci., v. 52 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 36), 1832 ; Isis, 1833, col. 1202.
X SubbracJiiani {Sternopygii).
Bonaparte, Giorn.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 52, (Saggio Distrib.
Method.
Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 37), 1832 ; Isis, 1833, col. 1202.
< Malacopteryges, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
167,197,1839.
(As order.)
< Anacanthini, Miiller, Abhand, K. Akad.
Wissensch.
Berlin, 1844, p. 199, 1846.
(As order. )
< Oadi, Bonaparte, Catalogo Metodico del Pesci Europei, pp.
5, 22, 1846, (As order. )
< Physodysti, Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N.
Am., p. 7, 1861.
(As suborder of Teleocephali) .
< Anacanthini, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 4, p. 317, 1862.
(As order. )
<; Anacanthini, Hackel, Generelle Morphologic der Organismen, B.
2, p. cxxvii, 1866, (As suborder. )
= Anacanthini, Gill, Arrangement Families Fishes, p. 31, 1872.
(As suborder of Teleocephali. )
> Anacanthini, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Assoc.
Adv.
Science, v. 20, p. 341, 1872.
> Scyphohranchii, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Assoc.
Adv.
Science, v. 20, p. 341, 1872.
^ Anacanthini or Jugulares, Jordan «fc Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p, 783, 1882, (As group or suborder,) Two open questions affect the constituency of the group.
Prof, Cope, in his memorable "Observations on the systematic relations of the Fishes", defined the group, which he referred to his " order " Percamorphi, in the following terms : — 1, "Anacanthini.
Basis cranii simple, no tube; post-temporal bifurcate ; scapular foramen between scapula and coracoid ; superior pharyngeals three, horizontal, third little larger; dorsal fin rays flexible, jointed.
Includes the families Gadidse and Macruridae^ both with isocercal caudal vertebrae," This definition is quite applicable to the typical Gadidae and Macruridae, but there are several forms which have generally been associated with them (and which have even been usually considered to be more nearly allied to the Gadidse than are the Macruridae) which do not exhibit the combination of characters signalized.
Such fishes have been designated as the families Brotulidae, Ophidiidse, Fierasferidae, and Congrogadidee.
These have the characters assigned by Prof Cope to his Scyphobranchii, at least as much as the genus Zoarces (referred to that group as a genus of Blenniidae), but none of the genera are mentioned under either title.
Probably Prof.
Cope had no skeletons of any of the families in question.
We are therefore left in doubt (1) whether he would associate them with the Gadidse and Macruridae and modify the characters of the including group Anacanthini,or (2) whether he would refer them to the Scyphobranchii, next to Zoarces and the Blenniidse generally.
Messrs. Jordan & Gilbert, in their excellent " Synopsis of the Fishes of North America," incidentally (p. 783, in a foot-note) refer to the "Anacanthini or Jugulares " as a " group or suborder" of Acanthopteri, and conclude the " order Acanthopteri " with the series of families generally combined under the former name.
After having first admitted the family Brotulidse (p. 79), they finally referred its constituents to the family Gadidse (p. 794), admitting, however, the families Gongrogadidde (p. 790), Fierasferidse (p. 791), Ophidiidse (p. 792), and Macruridae (p. 810).
The question now arises whether the last thought of the eminent ichthyologists is an advance on their first thought.
A preliminary investigation into the structure of the Jugular or Anacanthine fishes, leads us to different conclusions from those enunciated by the several great authorities, whose views we have mentioned.
That lamentable inattention to anatomy, and poverty of the museums in anatomical preparations and skeletons, which is the opprobrium of the institutions of this country, has prevented anything like an exhaustive examination, and will forbid the rapid progress here of scientific ichthyology till the want is supplied.
My own small private collection, supplemented by the data published by others, has alone rendered even the present outline of the system of the Anacanthini possible.
The details will therefore have to be filled in when science shall have established itself more thoroughly here, or when a citizen of a more fortunate land shall take up the subject.
Enough is now known, however, to almost assure us that the present outline cannot be far out of the way.
13 Thanks to the kindness of my venerable friend, Prof. Poey, of Havana, I obtained, many years ago, the cranium of the West Indian Brotula (B. harhata) and briefly indicated the most salient characteristics of the type in a foot-note to an article " Qn the Affinities of several doubtful British Fishes " (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1864, p. 200).
The note, published in this rather irregular manner, has doubtless escaped the attention of Messrs.
Cope, Jordan and Gilbert, for otherwise they would certainly have recognized the validity of the family Brotuliidse.
The type in question, indeed, has but little affinity with the Gadidae, and it gives me a pleasure, the greater because it is so rare, to find myself in accord with Dr. Giinther in combining it rather with the Ophidiina, Fierasferina and Congrogadina, in contradistinction to the Gadidae.
I must, however, entirely dissent from that gentleman in considering the combination as of simply family value, in associating with them the Ammodytina, and also as to the sufficiency of the diagnosis.
The several groups are distinguishable as follows : — SUPERFAMILY GADOIDEA.
Synonymy.
> Oadoidea, Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N.
Am., p. 7.
1873.
(Named only.)
> Macruroidea, Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. CoastN.
Am., p. 7, 1873.
(Named only.)
Jugulares with the orbito-rostral portion of the cranium longer than the posterior portion, the cranial cavity widely open in front ; the supraoccipital well developed, horizontal and cariniform behind, with the exoccipitals contracted forwards and overhung by the supraoccipital, the exoccipital condyles distant and feebly developed, with the hypercoracoid entire, the hypocoracoid with its inferior process convergent towards the proscapula, and the fenestra between the hypercoracoid and hypocoracoid.
GADIDJE.
Family Synonyms.
< Jugulaires on Auchenopteres, Dumeril, Zoologie Analytique, p. 118, 1806.
< Qadinia, Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, p. — , 3e fam., 1815.
< Metrotomes, De Blainville, Journal de Physique, t. 83, p. 255, 1816.
X Gadini, Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiolog.
Siciliana, p. 11, 1810.
< Gadoides, Risso, Hist.
Nat.
de I'Europe Merid., t. 3, pp.
104, 214, 1826.
< Gadoides, Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ire ed,, 2, p. 211, 1817 ; 2e 6d., t. 2, p. 330, 1829.
< Oadites, Latreille, Fam.
Nat.
du Regne Animal, p. 125, 1825.
< Gadites, Stark, Elements of Nat.
Hist., v. 1, p. 423, 1828.
< Oadites, McMurtrie, Cuv.
Animal Kingdom, v. 2, p. 243, 1831.
<^ OadidcB, Bonaparte, Gioin.
Acead.
di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 37), 1833.
< Oadoidem, Rich, Fauna B., Americana, v. 3, p. 241, 1836.
< Oadidm, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
188, 299, 1839.
< GadidcB, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, p. 132, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 194, 1840.
> BrosmiidcB, Adams, Manual Nat.
Hist., p. 104, 1854.
> Phycidm, Adams, Manual Nat.
Hist., p. 104, 1854.
X MerluciidcB, Adams, Manual Nat.
Hist., p. 104, 1854.
> Gadidce, Adams, Manual Nat.
Hist., p. 104, 1854.
< GadtdcB, Kaup, Archiv.
fiir Naturgeschichte, Jahr.
1858, B.
1, p. 86, 1858.
< Gadidce, Girard, Expl.
and Surv.
for R. R. Route to Pac.
Oc, v. 10, Fishes, p. 140, 1858.
X Gadoidei, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel.
Indico, p. xxvi, 1859.
< Gadidce, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 4, p. 326, 1862.
< Gadidce, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phlla., v. 15, p. 247, 1863.
< Gadidce, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Assoc.
Adv.
Sci., v. 20, p. 341, 1872.
= Gadidce, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872.
< Gadi, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber.
K. Akad.
der Wissensch.
(Wien), B.
67, 1.
Abth., p. 43.
1873.
< Gadidce, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p. 400, 794, 1882.
Subfamily Synonyms.
X Merluccia, Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, p. — , Ire S.
fam., 1815.
< Gadini, Bonaparte, Giom.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 37), 1832.
> Gadince, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
188, 299, 1839.
X Merluccince, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
188, 800, 1839.
> Phycince, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
188, 301, 1839.
X Brosminm, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
188, 301, 1839.
X Gadini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, p. 1832, 138; t. 4. p. 194, 1840.
> Lotini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, p. 132, 1838 ; t. 4. p. 194, 1840.
< GadincB, Kaup, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, Jahrg.
1858, B.
1, p. 86, 1858.
X Oadiformes, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel.
Indico, p. xxvi, 1859.
> Gadince, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., v. 15, pp.
229, 243, 248, 1863.
> LotincB, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., v. 15, p. 230, 1863.
> PhycincB, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., v. 15, p. 230, 1863.
> CiliatincB, Gill, Proc.
Aead.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., v. 15, p. 230, 1863.
> Brosmince, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., v. 15, p. 230, 1863.
= Gadince, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p. 794, 1883.
Gadoidea with a moderate caudal region coniform behind, and with the caudal rays procurrent above and below ; submedian anus, moderate suborbital bones, terminal mouth, jugular ventrals, dorsal furniture commencing nearly above the pectoral region, variously developed, and anal confined mostly to the posterior half of the length.
This group is, perhaps, still a composite one, and all the forms retained in it, otherwise called Gadinae by Messrs. Jordan & Gilbert, do not have the " frontal bone single, normal."
The Gadiiiae, Phycinse and Brosminse (Gill, op.
cit.)
are thus characterized, and are typical constituents, but the Lotinae, and apparently Ciliatinse or Oninse, have doubled or paired frontals.
Unfortunately the only skeletons of these types accessible to me are articulated, and cannot be critically examined.
It seems probable, however, that they may be segregated in a peculiar family.
MERLUCIID^.
Family Synonyms.
<^ Merluciidce, Adams, Manual Nat.
Hist., p. 104, 1864.
= Merludida,, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872.
Jugulaires, gen., Dumeril.
Oadinia, gen., Rafinesque.
Metrosomes, gen., Blainville.
Qadoides, gen., Risso.
Gadidcp, gen., Bon., Swains., Adams, Giinther, Girard.
Qadoidei, gen., Bleeker.
Qadi, gen., Fitzinger.
Subfamily Synonyms.
< Merluccia, Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, Ire S.
fam., 1815.
<< Merluccinm, Swainson, Natural History of Fishes, Amphibians and Reptiles, v. 2, pp.
118, 300, 1839.
= Merluciinm, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., v. 14, pp.
243, 244, 1863.
= Merluciinm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p. 795, 1882.
Oadini, pt., Bon.
GadincB, pt.
Gadoidea with a moderate caudal region coniform behind and with the caudal rays procurrent forwards, the anus submedian, moderate suborbital bones, terminal mouth, subjugular ventrals ; dorsal double, a short anterior and long posterior one, a long anal corresponding to the second dorsal ; ribs wide^ approximated, and channeled below or with infiected sides, and paired excavated frontal bones with divergent crests continuous from the forked occipital crest.
BEEGMACEROTID^.
Synonymy.
= Bregmacerotidm, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1873.
Blenniidos, gen., Richardson.
Oadidm, gen., Giinther, Day.
Gradoidea?
with a robust caudal portion truncate or convex behind, almost without procurrent caudal rays above or below, with an antemedian anus, moderate suborbitals, terminal mouth, jugular ventrals abnormally developed ; an occipital ray, and behind a continuous dorsal fin, confined to the caudal portion, and an anal nearly similar to the long dorsal.
RANICEPITID^.
Family Synonyms.
= New Family, Pamell, Mag.
of Zool.
and Bot., v. 1, p. — , 1837.
(Not named, but indicated. )
■= Ranicepitidm, Gill, Arrangement of Fam.
of Fishes, p. 3, 1873.
Jugulaires, gen., Dumeril.
Oadinea, gen., Rafinesque.
Oadoides, gen., Cuvier.
OadidcRf gen., Bonaparte, et al.
Gadoidea, gen., Bleeker.
Oadi, gen., Fitzinger.
Subfamily Synonym.
= Banicepini, Bonaimite.
Gadoidea?
with a moderate caudal portion, coniform behind, and with caudal rays procurrent, submedian anus, moderate suborbital bones, terminal mouth, jugular ventrals, dorsal (typically) double, an anterior small and posterior long one, anal corresponding to second dorsal, and rudimentary pyloric caeca in reduced number {2).
MACRURID^.
Family Synonyms.
< LopMonotes, Dumeril, Zoologie Analytique, p. 129, 1806.
< Trachinidi, Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiolog.
Siciliana, p. 12, 1810.
< Cephalosomes, Blainville, Journal de Physique, t. 83, p, — , 1818.
= LepidoUprides, Risso, Hist.
Nat.
cles Poissons de I'Europe Merid., t. 3, p. 242, 1826.
< Gadoides, Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ire ed., t. 2, p. 211, 1817 ; 2e ed., t. 2, p. 330, 1829.
^= Lepidolepridm, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
179, 261, 1839.
= Macru7'idcB, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, p. 132, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 194, 1840.
^= Lepidosomatidce, Adams, Manual Nat.
Hist., p. 101, 1854.
< Oadoidei, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel, Indico, p. xxvi, 1859.
= MacruridcB, Giintlier, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v., 4, p. 390, 1862.
= Macruridm, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Assoc.
Adv.
Sci., v. 20, p. 341, 1872.
= MacruridoR, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872.
^ Macrouri, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber.
K. Akad.
der Wissensch.
(Wien), B.
67, 1.
Abth., p. 43, 1873.
= MacruridcB, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p. 400, 810, 1882.
Oadinia, gen., Rafinesque, 1815.
Oadidw, s.
fam., Bonaparte, 1832.
Gadoidei, s.
fam., Bleeker.
Subfamily Synonyms.
< TracMnia, Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, p. — , 2e s.
fam., 1815.
= Macrourini, Bonaparte, Giom.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animali Vertebr.
a Sangue Freddo, p. 37), 1832.
= Macrurini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, p. 132, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 194, 1840.
= Macrurini, Kaup, Archiv fiir Naturgescbichte, Jahrg.
1858, B.
1, p. 86, 1858.
= Macrouriformes, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel.
Indico, p. xxvi, 1859.
Gadoidea with an elongated tail tapering backwards and destitute of a caudal fin, postpectoral anus, enlarged suborbital bones, inferior mouth, subbrachial ventrals, a distinct anterior dorsal, and a long second dorsal and anal converging on end of tail.
The several families thus defined are certainly, or in the case of the Ranicepitids and Bregmacerotids, presumably typical Anacanthines, and exhibit the cranial and scapular characteristics signalized for the superfamily Gadoidea.
The group thus defined is quite a natural one and perhaps may be deemed worthy of continued isolation under the name Anacanthini or Jugulares, although the propriety of assigning to it subordinal rank is very doubtful.
How very different the other forms approximated to the group are, may be appreciated from the following diagnoses.
SUPERPAMILY OPHIDIOIDEA.
Synonymy.
> Brotuloidea, Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N.
Am., p. 7, 1873.
(Named only.)
> OpMdioidea, Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N.
Am., p. 7, 1873.
(Named only.)
Jugulares with the orbito-rostral portion of the cranium contracted and shorter than the posterior, the cranial cavity closed in part by the expansion and junction of the parasphenoid and frontals, the supraoccipital horizontal and cariniform posteriorly, the exoccipitals expanded backwards and upwards behind the supraoccipital, the exoccipital condyles contiguous, and with the hypercoracoid (scapula, Parker) fenestrate (or foraminate) about its centre, and the hypocoraeoid with its inferior process divergent from the proscapula.
These characters are exhibited in the Brotula barbata (specimen in coll.
T. G.), Brosmojyfiycis marginatus (MSS.
note), Pteridium ater (cranium behind, Emery, ^ f. 21), Ophidium barbatum (cranium above, E., f. 26 ; scapular arch, E., f. 44), Fierasfer acus (cranium, E., f. 18-22; scapular arch, E., f. 35-36), Echiodon dentatus (cranium, E., f. 23-25 ; scapular arch, E., f 37-38), and Encheliophis vei'micularis (scapular arch, E.,^ f. 39).
The osteology of the Congrogadidae and Brotulophididse is entirely unknown and it is only assumed that they belong to this group on account of general agreement in superficial characters.
BROTULTD^.
Synonyms as Family Names.
= Brotulidm, Adams, Manual Nat.
Hist., p. 104, 1854.
< Brotuloidei, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel.
Indico, p. xxv, 1859, = Brotuloidm, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
[v. 15], p. 253, 1863.
1 The references indicated by "E.," are to Prof. Emery's excellent memoir on "Fierasfer" in the Atti della R. Accademia dei Lincei " 1879-80 (pp.
167-254, pi.
la-9a,.
How useful and indeed indispensable this memoir has been may be judged from the references.
= Brotuloids, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila.
[v. 16], p. 200, 1864 (cranial characters indicated).
-^ BrotulidcB, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872.
Gadoides, gen., Cuvier, OadidcB, gen., Bonaparte.
Ophidiidm, s.
fam., Giinther.
Gadi, gen., Fitzinger, Gadidm, s.
fam., Jordan & Gilbert.
Synonyms as Subfamily Ncemes.
= Brotulinm, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
188, 301, 1839.
< BrotuUna, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 4, p. 371, 1862.
(Defined.)
> Brotulince, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
[v. 14], p. 280, 1863 ; [v. 15], p. 252.
(Defined.)
> Brosmophycince, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
[v. 14, ] p. 280, 1868 ; [v, 15], pp.
252, 253, 1863.
> BythitincB, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
[v. 14], p. 280, 1863; [v. 15], p. 253, 1863.
> SirembincB, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
[v. 14], p. 280, 1863; [v. 15], p. 253, 1863.
<< Brotulini, Emery, Atti R. Accad.
dei Lincei (3), v. 7, p. 168, 1880.
< Brotulinm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N. Am.
, p. 794, 1882.
Ophidoidea with jugular ventrals reduced to one or two rays, and the anus in the anterior half of the length.
This family is quite rich in deep-sea types, and may be divided into various subfamilies, four of which (Brotulinse, Brosmophycinae, Bythitinse, and Sirembina^) have already been indicated and defined (see sj^nonymy).
The deep-sea forms chiefly belong to the subfamily Brosmophycinse, and perhaps one or two still undifferentiated ones whose definition is not at present possible.
BROTULOPHIDID^.
Synonymy.
= Brotulophididm, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872.
Ophidiidm {BrotuUna), gen., Giinther.
Ophidioidea with subbrachial (or thoracic) ventrals reduced to simple filaments, and anus in the anterior half of the length.
The single genus Brotulophis, for which this family has been distinguished, is still very imperfectly known, and its aflSnities are doubtful.
OPHIDIID^.
Family Synonyms.
< Pantopteres, Dum^ril, Zoologie Analytique, p. 115, 1806.
<^ Ofidini, Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiolog.
Siciliana, p. 38, 1810.
< Ophididw, Bonaparte, Giom.
Accad.
di Scienze, v. 53 (Saggio Distrib.
Metod.
Animali Vertebr.
a Saiigue Freddo, p. 38), 1832.
■< OpMdiidm, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t. 2, p. 133, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 276, 1840.
<l OphidontdcB, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp.
49, 259,1 1839.
< OphidiidcB, Adams, Manual Nat.
Hist., p. 105, 1854.
< OpMdinoB, Kaup, Cat.
Apodal Fish.
B. M., p. 153, 1856.
< Ophididw, Rich, Encycl.
Brit., 8th ed., v. 12, p. 268, 1856.
< Ophididce, Girard, Expl.
and Surv.
for R. R. Route to Pacific Oc, v. 10, Fishes, p. 137, 1858.
<^ Ophidioidei, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Pisciuni Aichipel.
Indico, p. xxv, 1859.
< Ophidiidce, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 4, p. 370, 1862.
= Ophidiidce, Gill, Arrangement Fam.
of Fishes, p. 3, 1872.
= Ophidiidce, Putnam, Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist., v. 16. p. 339, 1874, < Ofidiidei, Emery, Atti R. Accad.
dei Lincei (3), Fis.Mem., v. 3, p. 168, 1880.
•-= Ophididce, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., pp.
400, 792, 1882.
Anguilliformes, gen., Cuvier.
Xiphoides, gen., Risso, 1826.
Subfamily Synonyms.
< Ophidiini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., t, 2, p. 133, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 276, 1840.
< Ophidince, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 2, p. 260, 1839.
<C Ophidiiformes, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel.
Indico, p. xxv, 1859.
= Ophidiina, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 4, p. 376, 1863.
= Ofidiina, Emery, Atti R. Accad.
dei Lincei (3), v. 7, p. 168, 1873.
Ophidioidea with chin ventrals, represented by bifid barbellike filaments, and the anus in the anterior half of the length.
This family is well-marked bythe encroachment of the ventrals forwards under the chin and between the rami of the mandible, on which account the species were supposed to have barbels ' At p. 49, regarded as one of the "Families of the Gymnetres ; at p. 159 as the 4. subfamily ^^Ophidoninae " of the "tribe Gymnetres" (family not differentiated), and at p. 259, mentioned as "3. subf^m.
Ophidonidae."
analogous to those of the Mullids and to be destitute of ventrals.
Their homology was not even recognized by those who studied their anatomy.
Prof. Agassiz, for instance, in his Recherches sur les Poissons fossiles, representing them as apodal.
There are three or four genera, Ophidium, Genypterus, and Leptophidium.
Leptophidium^ although recognized as a mere subgenus by Messrs. Jordan & Gilbert, is very distinct.
FIERASFERID^E.
Family Synonyms.
<^ Oinnotini, Rafincsque, Indice, d'lttiolog.
Siciliani, p. 37, 1810.
= FierasferidoE, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Phila., 1864, p. 203, 1864.
^ Fierasferidm, Gill, Arrangement Fam.
of Fishes, p. 3, 1873.
> Fierasferi, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber.
K. Akad.
der Wissensch., v. 67, 1.
Abth., p. 43, 1873.
> Fnchelyophes, Fitzinger, Sitzimgsber.
K. Akad.
der Wissenscli., v. 67, 1.
Abth., p.
4:!, 1873.
= Flerasferidoe, Putnam, Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist., v. 16, p. 339, 1874.
= Merasferidos, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., pp.
400, 791, 1883, Ophidiidw, gen., Bon.
OpMdioidei ophidiiformes, gen., Blkr.
Ophidiidm, s.-fam., Giintber.
Subfamily Synonyms.
= Fierasferina, Giintber, Cat.
Fishes in Brit.
Mus., v.4, pp.
370, 381, 1863.
= Fierasferini, Emery, Atti R. Accad.
dei Lincei (3), v. 7, p. 168, 1873.
Ophidioidea without ventrals, and with the anus thoracic or jugular.
CONGROGADID^.
Family Synonyms.
= CongrogadidoB, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872.
< CongrogadidiP, .Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes of N.
Am., p. 790, 1883 Subfamily Synonyms.
< Gongrogadime, Giintber, Cat.
Fishes in Brit.
Mus., v. 4, pp.
370, 388, 1862.
< Congrogadini, Emery, Atti R. Accad.
dei Lincei (3), v. 7, p. 168, 1873.
Ophidioidea without ventrals, the anus in the anterior half of the length, and branchial membranes imited beneath but free from the throat.
The family is perhaps composite and lias been constituted or retained for three genera ( Congrogadus = Machserium, Haliophis, and Scytalina) which may prove to have little or no affinity to each other.
It is entirely provisional and must remain of very uncertain value till the forms can be anatomically investigated.
It is only by an assumption, perhaps, if not probably illegitimate, that Haliophis has been referred to the group. "
Riippell says 'Apertura branehialis parva,' " but Dr. GUnther, "by a comparison of the figure " was " induced to suppose that, as in Congrogadus, the gill-opening is of moderate width, the gill-membranes being united below the throat, and not attached to the isthmus.
"^ I should not have been induced, b^^ the figure to make any such assumption, for the likeness to Congrogadus is very slight.
The single specimen of Scytalina in the National Museum cannot be dissected.
SuPERPAMii.Y LYCODOIDEA.
Synonymy.
= Lycodoidea, Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N. Am,, p. 7, 1873.
(Named only.)
Jugulares with the orbito-rostral portion of the cranium contracted and shorter than the posterior, the cranial cavity open in front, but bounded laterally by expansions of the annectant parasphenoid and frontals, with the supraoccipital declivous and tectiform behind, the occipitals above inclined forward along the sides of the supraoccipital, and the exoccipital condyles distant, with the hypercoracoid foraminate about its centre and the hypocoracoid with an inferior process convergent to the proscapula.^ These characters are formulated from a skeleton of Zoarces anguillaris in the possession of the writer.
LYCODID^.
Family Synonyms.
X ZoarcMdce, Swainson, Nat.
Hist, and Class.
Fishes, etc., v. 3, pp.
184, 283, 1839.
> Lycodidw, Giintlier, Cat.
Fishes Biit.
Mus., v. 4, p. 319, 1862.
= Lycodoidce, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci Phila., v. 15, p. 2.15, 1863 (Defined) ; V. 16, p. 203, 1864.
(Cranial characters indicated.)
1 Giinther, Cat.
Fishes in Brit.
Mus., v. 4, p. 389.
"^ The nostrils are single on each side as in many Blennioidea.
^ LycodidcE, Gill, Arrangement Fara.
of Fishes, p. 3, 1872.
> Zoarcce., Fitzinger, Sitzungsber.
k. Akad.
der Wissensch.
(Wien), B.
67, 1.
Abth., p. 43, 1873.
OacUdce and Ophidini, pt., Reinhardt.
Blennioidei and OpMdoidei, pt., Bleeker.
Blennioidce, pt., Gill, Kroyer.
Lycodidm and BlenniidoB, gen., Giinther.
Subfamily Synonyms.
> QymneUncB, Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., v. 15, pp.
256, 261, 1863.
> Zoardnce, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N, Am., p. 783, 1882.
> Lycodinm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p. 783, 1882.
= Lycodidti', Collett, Norske Nordhavs-Exped.
1876-78 ; Fiske, p. 77, 1880.
= ZoarcidcB, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p. 400, 1882.
= Lycodidcf, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p. 783, 1882.
Lycodoidea of a more or less anguilliform shape, tapering backwards ; dorsal and anal elongated and confluent with caudal, invested in a thick skin; ventrals jugular and rudimentary or suppressed, and branchial apertures lateral and not confluent.
The chief group of this family, or the subfamily Lycodinae, is a chai"acteristic deep-sea type, and represented by many species varying greatly in elongation, and with the extreme terms tolerably well connected by graduated representatives.
Nevertheless, the two sections of Lycodes, defined by Prof. Collett (op.
cit., p. 84), seem to be entitled to generic rank, and corroborated by other species obtained by the TJ, S. Commission of Fish and Fishei-ies.
The name Ly codes must be retained for the robust species, while Lycenchelys may be used as a designation for Collett's second group which have " the body elongate ;" height of the body contained from twelve to twenty -four times in the total length.
The genera would then be Lycodes, Lycenchelys, Lycodopsis, Lycodonus, and Lycocara (= Uronectes, Gthr.).
In the preceding diagnoses of the superfamilies Gadoidea, Ophidioidea and Lycodoidea, little more is given than what may serve to neatly differentiate the several groups, but the characters given are reinforced by many others, such as the cranial foramina, details in the relations of the bones, and characters of the vertebrae.
The relations of the Brotuloidea appear to be almost as intimate, if not indeed more so, with the Lycodoidea than with the Gadoidea.
But a comparison of the cranium of a Lycodid with that of a Blenniid, must convince the ichthyotomist that there is a close affinity between the two.
Indeed, it is quite possible, at least, that Prof.
Cope might retain his diagnosis of the Anacanthini, and refer the Brotuloid families to his Scj^phobranchii by the side of Zoarces and his other Blenniidse.
Prof. Emery has also perceived the great differences exhibited in cranial characters by the Ophidioidea from the Gadoidea and has even contended that they should be approximated to the Gobioidea.^ In view of these facts, it is evident that the group of Anacanthini not only has a very uncertain tenure, but it may have either to be entirelj' abolished as being an unnatural combination of different types, or to be limited to the Gadoidea.
But it is possible that the group as retained by the most recent ichthyologists may be even more heterogeneous than has been supposed.
Several other types have been generally associated with the forms already indicated, but the pertinence of the Amraodytidae,^ Ateleopodidae and Xenocephalidse to it is doubtful, and it is almost certain that the Gadopsidas are not at all related to any of the families already discussed ; nevertheless, to complete the summary of the families generally referred to the Anacanthini, their synonymy and characteristics are here given : — AMMODYTID^.
Family Synonyms, = Ammodytidm, Bonaparte, Catal.
Metod.
Pesci Europei, pp.
7, 40, 1846.
= Ammodytidm, Gill, Arrangement of Famines of Fishes, p. 8, ]872.
= Ammodytm, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber.
K. Akad.
der Wissensch.
(Wien), B.
67, 1.
Abth., p. 43, 1873.
= Ammodytidm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p. 414, 1883.
Oadidce, s.
fam., Bonaparte.
Coryphienidie, gen., Swainson.
Ophidioidei, s.
fam., Bleeker, s.
fam., Giinther. '
"Attenendomi ai risultati delle mie ricerche anatomiche, io debbo, tra le due opinion!, adottare quella del Canestrini e considerare gli Ofidiidei come aflfini di Gobioidi, coi quali hanno caratteri comuni assai importanti, in ispecie nella struttura del cranio."
Emery, op.
cit., p. 169 ; see also p. 187.
^ The only skeleton at present accessible to me, has been so badly prepared that I do not venture to base any opinion upon it.
I hope soon to have a clean disarticulated one.
Subfamily Synonyms.
= Ammodytini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci.
Nat., p. 133, 1838 ; t, 4, p. 276, 1840.
= Ammodyteiformes, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel, Indico, p. xxvj 1859.
=: Ammodytina, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 4, p. 384, 1862 r = Ammodytince, Gill, Cat.
Fishes E, Coast N. A., p. 40, 1861.
> Argyrotcenince, Gill, Cat.
Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 40, 1861.
Anacanthini ?
with an elongated, almost parallelogram mic body, with a dorsal lateral line, postmedian anus, narrow suborbitals, terminal mouth with protractile jaws, enlarged suboperculum, widely cleft branchial apertures, lamelliform pseudobranchise, a long dorsal and long but postmedian anal with articulated rays, low pectorals and no ventrals.
ATELEOPODIDiE.
Synonyms as Family Names.
= Ateleoiyodoidei, Bleeker, Envim.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel.
Indico, p. xxvi, 1859.
(Not defined ; made the type of a distinct order — "Ateleopodi — au forte cum Siluris adjungendi.")
= Ateleopodid(e, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., v. 4, pp.
318, 398, 1862.
= Ateleopodidce, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872.
Synonym as Subfamily Name.
= Ateleopodini) Bonaparte, 1850.
Anacanthini ?
with an elongated tail tapering backwards, but provided with a narow caudal, antemedian anus, moderate suborbitals, inferior mouth, thoracic ventrals reduced to double or simple filaments, a short anterior dorsal only, and a long oval continuous with the caudal.
XENOCEPHALID^.
Synonyms.
= Xenocephaliformes, Bleeker, Enum.
Sp.
Piscium Archipel.
Indico, p. xxvi, 1859.
= Appendix to the Anacanthini Gadoidei, Giinther, Cat.
Fishes in Brit.
Mus., V. 4, pp.
318, 399, 1862.
Gadoidei, s.
fam., Bleeker.
Anacanthini?
with a "small body," a distinct caudal, postmedian anus ; head very large, truncated, cuirassed with plates and armed with spines; jugular?
ventrals of five rays and one short dorsal, and a short anal, both near the caudal.
Two other types referred by Dr. Giinther to the Anacanthini certainly do not belong to the group and are true Acanthopter}'gian fishes.
They are the Gadopsidge and Chiasmodontidae.
GADOPSIDJE.
Synonymy.
= Oadopsida, Giinther, Cat.
Pishes Brit.
Mus., v. 4, pp.
317, 318, 1862.
< OadopsidcB, Cope, Proc.
Am.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila., v. 13, p. 31, 1873.
BlenniidcB, gen., Steindachner.
CHIASMODONTID^.
Family Synonyms.
= Chiasmodontidae, Gill, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N.
Am., p. 964 1882.
(Defined.)
QadidcB, gen., Giintlier.
Subfamily Synonym.
= OMasmodontincB, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fishes N Am., p. 795, 1882.
June 24.
Dr. W. S. W. RuscHENBERQER in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
A paper entitled " Notes on the Geology and Natural History of the West Coast of Florida," by Jos.
Willcox, was presented for publication.
Some Modifications observed in the Form of Sponge Spicules.
— Mr. Edw.
Potts remarked that whatever view we may prefer to take as to the position which sponges occupy in the animal kingdom — whether they are regarded as colonial flagellate monads with Saville Kent, or with Haekel take a much higher place among the metazoa, or perhaps, with still greater probabilit}', fill an intermediate place between these, the formation and development of the spiculas in both the Calearea and Silicea seem likely to remain for a long time one of the most perplexing problems.
Many terms of this conundrum will readily occur to the mind of any one who has worked in this field and observed the spiculae from their earliest appearance to full maturity, and it is not the design of the present communication to refer to them now more particularly.
An instance, however, in which a singular modification of character has apparently been effected by the chemical condition of the environment seems deserving of mention.
Amongst the sponges to which he had alluded in former communications as encrusting certain old pipes, recently removed from the waterworks on the Schuylkill River, in Philadelphia, some portions were much more deeply colored with rust than the others ; the statoblasts, particularly, seeming to be mere pseudoraorphs of their originals in iron oxide.
Fragments of this character were boiled in nitric acid, washed out and mounted for comparison with other matter similarh' treated, but free from such discoloration.
The mature normal skeleton spicule of this sponge, Meyenia Leidyi, is smooth, robust and shorter than that of any other American species.
Yer}'' rarely the fine line of the axial channel is visible, but in the specimen under examination the size and exterior appearance of the spiculse remaining as before, the hardly noticeable channel has become a wide canal, open at both ends, and occupying more than one-half the breadth of the spicule.
This does not occur merely in occasional instances, but universally throughout the fragment of sponge so aflfected.
(See fig.
5, Plate IV.)
The birotulate spicules of this sponge also arc short and of a peculiarly substantial appearance, with entire reflexed margins, yet in the present preparation they could with difficulty be detected as mere ghosts of their normal shapes.
The two discs rarely remained together, their characteristic entire margins were gone, the rotules being represented merely by a line of very fine rays.
The speaker ventured no suggestion as to the influences or the method by which these changes had been efiected, but referred the fact to the consideration of students more competent to deal with the mechanical and chemical constitution of these bodies.
Lieut.
Thos.
L. Casey, Eng.
Corps, U. S. A., was elected a member.
July 1.
Mr. Thos.
Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
A paper entitled " On a supposed new species of Cristatella," by Edw.
Potts, was presented for publication.
Volcanic Dust from Krakatoa.
— Prof. H. Carvill Lewis remarked that in connection with the cause of the beautiful red sunsets of last autumn and winter, which had been recently the subject of much discussion in the scientific periodicals, he had been interested in examining some volcanic dust which had been ejected from the volcano of Krakatoa, and which he had received through the kindness of Rev.
Wayland Hoyt,D.
D., of this city.
This dust, which, on August 27, 1883, fell thickly upon the decks, rigging and masts of the bark William H. Besse, bound from Batavia to Boston, is of a light gi'ay color and harsh to the touch.
It is essentially a pulverized pumice, by far the greater part of it consisting of fragments of volcanic glass.
These fragments are sometimes twisted, but generally in flat angular transparent scales, which are filled with minute bubbles, and, of course, are isotropic.
Angular fragments and crystals of transparent plagioclase, occasionally showing the hemitropic striations, and giving bright colors in the polai'iscope, together with more irregular and rounded fragments of dark green and brown pyroxenic minerals, probably augite and h^persthene, are scattered very occasionally among the glass particles.
Grains of magnetite, often well rounded, also occur, and may be picked out and examined separately by a magnet covered with tissuepaper.
As it is this dust which is regarded as tlie cause of the universal red skies wliich followed so soon after the eruption, attempts have been made, both in Europe and America, to discover traces of it in snow or elsewhere, 13 In the suburbs of Philadelphia, some dust was collected by Mr. Joseph Wharton,^ this winter, from melted snow, and from the presence in it of certain rounded and filamentous glass particles supposed by him to be volcanic.
Some of it had been submitted by him to the speaker for examination.
It appeared to be composed of particles of quartz, coal, cinders, vegetable matter, etc., among which are certain glassy hairs and rounded globules.
These bear no resemblance to the angular glass fragments composing the Krakatoa dust, which is remarkably free from either filaments or globules ; and the supposed volcanic glass particles in the Philadelphia dust are most probably of local origin — from blast-furnaces, foundries, or the like.
Accompanying the specimens of dust from Krakatoa, were extracts from the log of the bark, which present several points of interest.
A point of special importance is the record of a sudden barometric fluctuation, due to a great atmospheric wave, which, starting from the volcano at the time of the eruption, has been shown to have " traveled no less than three and a quarter times round the whole circumference of the earth."
^ Extracts from log of hark William H. Besse, from B ataxia towards Boston.
'■'■Aug.
26.
This day commences with light airs and calms.
Light airs throughout the day.
At 5.30 P. M., wind hauling ahead, let go starboard anchor with thirty fathoms chain, clewed up and furled all sail.
Adam light bore W. 1-4 S. and E. by S. Throughout the afternoon and night heard heavy reports, like the discharge of heavy artillerj^, sounding in the direction of Java Island.
Yery dark and cloudy throughout the night, with continual flashes of lightning.
Barometer 30.15.
"■Aug.
27.
Commences with strong breezes, and thick, cloudy weather.
Barometer 30.12.
At 9.30 A. M., pilot left ship.
Hove the lead every fifteen minutes.
At daylight noticed a heavy bank to the westward which continued to rise ; and, the sun becoming obscured, it commenced to grow dark.
The barometer fell suddenly to 29.50, and suddenly rose to 30.60.
Called all hands, furled everything securely, and let go the port anchor with all the chain in the locker.
By this time the squall struck us with terrific force, and we let go starboard anchor with eighty fathoms chain.
With the squall came a heavy shower of sand and ashes, and it had become by this time darker than the darkest night.
The barometer continued to rise and fall an inch at a, time.
The wind was blowing a hurricane, but the water kept very smooth.
A heavy rumbling, with reports like thunder, was heard continually ; and the sky was lit up with fork lightning running in all directions, while a strong smell of sulphur pervaded the air, ^ See his letter in Public Ledger, Jan. 23, 1884.
^ Nature, vol.
xxx, p. 12. making it difficult to breathe.
Altogether, it formed one of the wildest and most awful scenes imaginable.
The tide was setting strong to the westward throughout the gale, at the rate of ten knots per hour.
At 3 P. M. the sky commenced to grow lighter, although the ashes continued to fall.
The barometer rose to 30.30, and dropped graduall}^ to 30.14, when it became stationary.
The whole ship, rigging and masts, were covered with sand and ashes to the depth of several inches.
^'■Aug.
28.
Commences with light airs and thick, smoky weather.
Hove up starboard anchor, and hove short on port anchor.
Dead calm throughout the day and night.
Saw large quantities of trees and dead fishes floating by with the tide ; the water having a whitish appearance, and covered with ashes.
This day ends with a dead calm, and thick, smoky weather.
'''•Aug.
29.
This day commences with calms, and thick, smoky weather.
Made all sail throughout the day.
Moderate winds, and thick, smoky weather.
Passed large quantities of driftwood, cocoanuts, and dead fishes.
At 8 P. M., passed Anjier, and could see no light in the lighthouse, and no signs of life on shore.
Furled all light sails, and stood under easy sail throughout the night.
Day ends with moderate winds and cloudy weather.
Barometer 30.14.
'■''Aug.
SO.
Commences with moderate winds and cloudy weather.
At daylight made all sail with a fresh breeze from the westward.
Found the water for miles filled with large trees and driftwood, it being almost impossible to steer clear of them.
Also passed large numbers of dead bodies and fish.
Kept a sharp lookout on the forecastle throughout the day.
At 10 A. M., sighted Java Head lighthouse ; but the wind hauling ahead, we kept away, and went round Prince Island.
Latter part, fresh breezes and thick, smoky weather.
Frida}^ and Saturday, passed large quantities of ashes in the water.
Saturday, crew employed in cleaning ashes off masts and rigging.
Water had a green color."
July 8.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Eleven persons present.
A paper entitled " Catalogue of Sponges collected by Mr. Jos.
Willcox on the West Coast of Florida," by Henry J. Carter, was presented for publication.
The following were ordered to be printed : — NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY AND NATUKAL HISTORY OF THE WEST COAST OF FLORIDA.
BY JOSEPH WILLCOX.
The following notes apply especially to the Counties of Levy and Hernando in Florida.
That portion of the Peninsula consists of a fine grained limestone composed largely of foraminifera, several species of which have been determined by Prof. Heilprin.
The limestone is covered with sand, in some places with a thin layer only, while, at other localities, wells sunk to the depth of 25 or 30 feet have failed to indicate the presence of rocks.
In many places the rocks are exposed above the surface of the ground.
They are hard and compact when dry ; but, when they are permanently wet, they are comparatively soft, and are eroded with facility.
In fact, throughout a large portion of the State numerous and long subterranean caverns abound, that serve as aqueducts to convey the water supplying the many large springs, for which this territory is noted.
The subsidence of the surface ground into these caverns has caused many sink-holes.
Three miles south of Gainesville, within a space of less than 100 acres, nearly fifty funnel-shaped sinkholes exist, from 20 to 200 feet in diameter at the top, and from 10 to 50 feet deep.
These are near to Payne's Prairie, a lake covering a space of about forty square miles.
This lake has no outlet, and its surface rises and falls, as is usual in such cases, according to the abundance or scarcity of rain.
It covers an area that was dry land a few years ago.
The creek, which now supplies water to it, formerly flowed into a sink hole near those mentioned above.
This creek undoubtedly was the active agent in eroding the caverns into which the material formerly occupying the space where the sink-holes now exist was precipitated.
Some sink-holes are large and the subsidence moderate.
Examples of the latter case may be seen in numerous shallow ponds and cypress swamps.
Many large lakes probably owe their existence to the same cause.
The limestone is, in some localities, replaced by a chert rock, in which the casts of shells are still visible.
This rock forms the only material suitable for the manufacture of stone implements, that the writer has seen in Florida.
The coast is fringed with a strip of land four to six miles wide that is low, level and rocky, from Cedar Keys to Anclote Key, seventy-five miles farther south.
A large portion of this land is swampy ; and much of it is covered with water, when the tide is unusually high ; while the highest portion of it is only 3 or 4 feet above the level of high water.
It is covered with a shallow, rich soil, which sustains a dense growth of hard wood, in addition to many palmetto and red cedar trees.
At a distance of from eight to twelve miles apart small rivers empty into the Gulf.
They have their sources chiefly in large springs, which are supplied by long, subterranean caverns.
They have cut crooked channels through the limestone rocks, not only on the mainland, but through the shoals to the deep water of the Gulf.
These rocks, the foundation of the mainland, extend westward under the water of the Gulf of Mexico ; and for the distance of several miles from the shore great shoals exist ; making navigation impracticable, except for small vessels.
At low tide the rocks are exposed to view in numerous instances, far from shore.
In fact such a great number of low islands exist along the coast, separated from each other by shallow bays and creeks, that it is difficult to determine what should be classed as the shore line.
Many of these islands are overflown with water at high tide.
In such cases they are covered with mud : those nearest to the sea usually sustaining a dense growth of mangrove trees ; while others nearer the mainland are covered with saw-grass and bullrushes.
A soft and unctious mud covers the bottom to the depth of a few inches in the shoal water ; and an abundance of sea weeds thrives there.
These afl"ord shelter to vast numbers of mollusks, crustaceans and worms, to the life of which those waters are well adapted.
The coast undoubtedly extended much farther into the Gulf, at a time not very remote.
On the bottom of the shoals and rivers, and along the shores, the limestone rocks are eroded in a very rough and uneven manner.
No smooth surfaces are to be seen : nothing but sharp, unsightly projections, depressions and deep holes.
Along the rivers the waves make mam'small caverns xmder the shore.
East of the narrow, rocky belt, lining the shore, the land is sandy and rises to the height of about 200 feet at a distance of from twelve to twenty miles from the coast.
The highest land near the coast is at Moiint Lee, in Hernando Co., twelve miles from the Gulf, and four miles east of the source of the Homosassa River.
The summit of this hill is 200 feet above the sea, and it terminates abruptly, on the west side, in a rocky bluff 100 feet high.
From the top an extensive view may be obtained of the surrounding country, an opportunity seldom afforded in middle and southern Florida.
Under this hill are several caverns which have not been opened for exploration ; but the noise from falling stones indicates a considerable depth in them.
A rib of a manatee has latel}^ been dug from the soil in a small cave in the side of the hill.
The limestone at this place is hard and fine grained ; and if found to be free from fissures, it will prove to be a desirable building stone.
The surface of this rock is rugged and unsightly ; having been eroded in the usual, uneven manner.
About five miles northeast of Mount Lee the writer discovered a second locality of Nummulites Willcoxi^ at an altitude of nearly 200 feet above the sea.
They are associated with Orbitoides and Heterostegina and Pecten, as determined by Prof. Heilprin.
The shore of the Gulf of Mexico abounds with multitudes of shells of king-crabs, suggestive of a great mortality among them.
At low tide the writer found one king-crab lying upon its back with Fasciolaria tulipa on top of it, eating its vitals.
Near by was found another lying on its back, upon which were 25 mollusks (Melongena corona) eating it.
In Clearwater Harbor, north of Tampa Bay, the sea-urchins, during the first week in April, are covered with shells arranged upon them with system and dexterity, so that they are obscured from view.
Prof. Leidy, when informed of this habit, suggested that it might have some connection with the process of spawning.
This suggestion is plausible, as in the same waters in January, though abundant, none of them were found to be covered with any material.
Prof. A. Agassiz ^ states that " the sea-ui'chins, in ' Sec Seaside Studies in Nat.
History, page 101.
Boston Harbor, have a habit of covering themselves with seaweeds, packing it down snugly above them, as if to avoid observation : and this habit makes them difficult to find."
In Clearwater Harbor the white shells, with which the sea-urchins cover themselves, make a conspicuous object, so that the animal underneath can easily be found.
They evidently do not seek concealment from an enemy, as the seaweeds would more effectually accomplish that object.
The shell mounds of the west coast are very numerous ; and they indicate the former favorite camping grounds of the Indians.
The largest accumulation of shells is at Cedar Keys.
A portion of that town is built upon the mound ; and great quantities of the material, consisting almost exclusively of oyster shells, have been used in grading the streets.
Oysters are very abundant and of good size in the vicinity of Cedar Keys, and along the coast as far as forty-five miles farther south.
The following small rivers flow into the Gulf of Mexico near the oyster beds : — Wakasassa, Withlacooche, Crystal River, Little Homosassa, Homosassa and Cheeshowiska.
Near the outlets of these rivers are numerous small islands, too low to be habitable, except when elevated by artificial means.
At each river the Indians selected an island for their camping ground, to which they carried oysters ; the shells, in the course of a long time, making large mounds.
Human bones, stone implements and fragments of pottery are frequently found among the shells.
Prof. Wyman, having examined many fresh-water shell mounds, on and near the St. John's River, states in the Memoirs of the Peabody Academy of Science, vol.
i, No.
4, 1875, on page 49, that " Stone chips are not common, and were generally found separately, or only a few together ; but in no instance in collections indicating a place for the manufacture of arrow heads or other implements."
Such a place for the manufacture of stone implements may be seen on John's Island at the mouth of the Cheeshowiska River.
Having visited this island mound several times, the writer has found there at least a half bushel of stone implements, in the various stages of manufacture ; and at the present time many bushels of the stone chips may be seen there, all made of the chert rock referred to above.
On this island may also be found shell implements of several patterns, made from the shells of Busy con pyrum.
The stone implements found there are similar to those figured on Plate II, in the Memoir referred to, and the shell implements are similar to those on Plate VII of the same.
Near Dwight's Landing, on the shore of Clearwater Harbor, is an Indian mound composed chiefly of the shells of Busycon pyrum and Fasciolaria tulipa; the former greatly predominating in numbers.
Nearly all of these shells have a hole in the side near the top, about three-quarters of an inch in diameter, all neatly and uniformly made.
It is presumed that the animal was detached from the shell by the Indians, by means of an instrument inserted through this hole.
ON A SUPPOSED NEW SP CIES OF CRISTATELLA.
BY EDW.
POTTS.
I wish to announce the discovery in October last, within the waters of Harvey's Lake, Luzerne Co., Pa., of vast colonies, or, technically speaking, of aggregations of colonies of a species of Gristatella, exhibiting some peculiarities that seem to distinguish it from C. mucedo of Europe and from both the known American forms.
Harvey's Lake is a beautiful sheet of water, Ijang at an altitude of about 1200 feet above sea-level, amongst partially wooded hills of no great height, and taking rudely the shape of the capital letter T. Its greatest length is about two miles.
The depth throughout the larger part of this extent is said to be very great, increasing rapidly a few feet from the shore.
The first groups of this beautiful polyp were found upon a large inclined log or stump in deep water, within one or two feet of the surface.
Here the colonies appeared as scattered vermiform masses much longer than those of C. Idse of Leidy, and nearly rivaling in length those of G. ophidioidia of Hyatt.
The longest were estimated at about six inches.
Instead, however of following the sinuous lines, described by the latter author as characteristic of his species, these assumed, generally, single or continuous curves, like a parted letter O or rude C. Afterwards, in three or four instances, we found them occupying entirely novel situations.
The tops of fallen trees or large branches lying 20 or 30 feet from the shore, and spreading to a diameter of 10 or 12 feet, were covered by hundreds or thousands of these colonies, clinging to or twining around every branch and twig, yet with so slight an attachment that the motion of raising a twig above water caused them to drop ofi" by dozens.
While hanging temporarily by one end they assumed a spiral form, closely twisting upon themselves.
Their gelatinous common ectocyst, nearly a line in thickness, lined the branches as far as we could reach or see.
Its persistence upon those twigs brought away with us is rather remarkable, as after remaining seven months in water it is still easily recognizable.
It exhibits under the microscope a plexus of fine lines like a very delicate mycelium, which indeed may now have replaced the normal structure.
The pocket lens of the collector was of course insufficient to reveal any distinctive characters in the individuals composing these colonies, and we failed in the attempt to bring any of them alive within reach of our microscopes, so that a full determination of the species has awaited the recent germination of some of the numerous statoblasts then secured.
Their death in the glass jar, in which some of the colonies were carried, made it necessary several times during the past winter to change the water and wash out the corrupt matter.
On these occasions the statoblasts were saved by pouring the water through a sieve.
The winter months passed, and April and May came, but still they did not germinate, and I was on the point of discarding the whole as lifeless when a number of embryo colonies were fortunately discovered upon the sides of the jar.
These consisted of from one to eight polypides and exhibited this constant peculiarity.
The coenoecium, in a lateral view, might be compared in shape to a shoe ; the coencecial cells, whether few or many, occupying solely the elevated or ankle portion ; the other extremity was always prolonged into one of the many forms which fashion has dictated for our foot-covering, from the cylindrical pointed toes of some hundrds of years ago to the abbreviated stumps which still form the Chinese ideal of beauty.
This feature was very conspicuous, but as I am unable to compare these young colonies with other species at a similar stage, I hesitate to assume its novelty.
In the later hatchings it is far less noticeable, and in the most advanced stages which any of the healthy colonies have reached, the prolongation has ceased to be a prominent feature.
An ounce phial contained a quantity of the statoblasts which were supposed to have lost their vitality by " fouling."
These were now washed thoroughly in a sieve and placed in a half-gallon jar of water.
In about ten days I was rewarded by finding that they had germinated by scores, and the surface of the water was dotted with tiny groups floating with the disc side upward ; the polyp heads and their beautiful plumes of tentacles depending and spreading below.
On removing a number of the statoblasts, firmly held together by their marginal hooks, for moi'e minute examination under the microscope, I found them in all the primary stages of development ; from the as yet unaltered condition in which whatever of life may have quickened their long dormant cells, was hidden from sight by the opaque chitin of theii' valves, to that in which these had been pushed off to right and left and the neophite had reached forth to discover the nature and limitation of the new scene into which he had entered.
The statoblasts, as in the other species of this genus, are orbicular, reddish brown in color, relatively thick, with rounded marginal annulus and a double series of retentive hooks.
The latter spring from circular membranous lines on each side, near the circumference of the chitinous body, and on one side are reflexed from the margin, while those pertaining to the other curve abruptly, partly around the annulus and then become radial in the equatorial plane ; their surfaces are i-oughened or minutely tuberculated.
Little difference is noticeable between the diameters or the degrees of convexity of the exposed sides of the statoblast ; that, however, to which the longer bent booklets are attached, is generally the larger, with a single sweeping curve, while the other has often a higher convexit}' at its centre.
The chiton is composed of minute hexagonal cells whose outer surfaces appear to be concave^ or depressed, but their margins are elevated here and there at the angles, into spinous papillae, with rounded apices, more numerous near the circumference of the statoblast.
As the germination of the enclosed embryo progresses the sides or valves are forced apart, separating always at the same portion of the margin ; the whole annulus remaining attached as before described, while the chitinous rim of the other is drawn out from under it, as a pill-box is separated from its lid.
This is in marked contrast with the process by which the valves of Pectinatella are separated, as shown in the accompanjang diagram.
The rounded edge of the semitransparent coenoecium now appears and slowl}^ protrudes itself so that it is some hours before the first polypide projects his immature tentacles.
In the beginning, and sometimes for several days, the coenoecium is nearly filled with granular particles of 3^olk-like matter, opaque b}^ transmitted light and of a light waxen yellow ^ when reflected light is ^ Prof. Alhnan describes the chiton cells of C. macedo as convex upon their outer surface which thus become "elegantly mammillatecl."
A transverse section of the statoblast shows that the annulus is firmly attached to that side on which the hooks are reflexed, and spreads broadly over the rim or margin pertaining to the opposite valve.
'^ These are white in Pectinatella.
used.
These are frequently collected into spherical groups, and one or more may occasionally be seen in the act of circulation or of violent revolution — the result probably of ciliary currents within the coenoecium.
These granular masses adhere to the stomach and other internal organs, obscuring their outlines and making it nearly impossible to detect the appearance of the secondary polypides ; they follow, however, so soon after the first, that it is believed that several heads are considerably advanced before the separation of the valves of the statoblasts.
The tentacles of the first polypide, however, are generally much better developed when it appears, than are those of the succeeding forms, indicating a nearer approach to maturity.
The efi'ect of ciliary action is quite evident in this immature condition, but the cilia themselves are minute and difficult of definition.
The granular bodies and groups which obscured the body of the coenoecium become gradually absorbed, or in someway eliminated, remaining latest in the caudal projection and finally entirely disappearing.
The whole coenoecium then becomes beautifully transparent, disclosing not merely the structure of the individual polypides even when retracted, but the fine lines of the numerous retractor muscles may be readily traced from their connection with the stomach branchia, to their insertion in the disc or opposite portion of the endocyst.
The fact that the insertion of these muscles occur in nearly parallel or radial lines upon the disc of the coenoecium may account for the term used by writers who speak of the cells of the coenoecium ; but there are no cell walls, and, when entirely retracted, the stomachs of the individual polypides pass through the lines of muscular filaments and lie wherever the}^ can find room.
This " finding room " for their several personalities is often a matter of considerable difficulty to them, and of no little amusement to the observer, who, when a colony is disturbed will seethe first few polypides retire with some appearance of graceful ease, but the laggards must struggle to tuck themselves into a bed where six or eight are already lying, and repeated jerks and jostles are necessary before they can finally hide themselves, as they seem to think, by drawing the transparent coverlid of the endocyst together over their heads.
The cells of the outer layer of the endocyst are in this genus larger and of greater depth than the corresponding series in Pectinatella ; and in both genera appear to be of the same character over the whole surface of the coenajcium, there being no such arrangement of locomotory apparatus upon the lower surface in Cristatella as Prof. Allman describes and figures in the case of C. mucedo.^ In both genera, also, by a delicate manipulation of the light under a high power of the microscope may be detected the fine lines of transverse and longitudinal muscular tissue which form the third and fourth layers of Prof. Hyatt's series, and are visible also under the thinner cell structure of the evaginated polypide.
As generally accepted, the ectocyst, which, in Pectinatella^ forms a solid and constantly thickening mass of gelatinoid matter, is in this genus thrown off" as a fugitive film, or, more generally, a pavement layer of eflTete matter that supports the colonies and upon which their locomotion is eff'ected.
When the young colonies have been liberated from the floating statoblasts in my jars, they float, as has been already described, with their discs at the surface of the water, and this delicate, invisible film spreads upon the surface, uniting the neighboring colonies and forming a common basis of support from which they do not appear voluntarily to remove.
In a natural situation on a stream or pond the wind or currents would probably soon waft them against some solid substance which they • would afterwards colonize and inhabit.
As has been said, no especial contrivance appears to exist for facilitating the locomotion of these colonies, and, while their power in this respect is, of course, unquestionable, the writer is inclined to doubt whether it is exercised voluntarily and with a purpose, or is not rather an accidental result of the frequent contractions and expansions of the retractor muscles disturbing the position of alternate portions of the disc.
This seems the more plausible, as we do not find in this species any method of prehension in the colonies, but merely a gelatinous or slimy cohesion to the ectocyst.
At maturity the evagination of the polypide in the species under consideration is complete, leaving not only no " invaginated fold " but exhibiting the whole digestive system of the polyp ^ " In the middle of the flattened under surface is an oval disc resembling the foot of a gasteropodous moUusk.
On this disc, which is contractile and admits of frequent changes of shape, the colony adheres to neighboring objects or creeps about on submerged leaves and stems of aquatic plants, etc."
some distance beyond the surface of the coenoecium.
The total length of the digestive tract is rather less than that of the lophophoric arms and about equal to that of the outer rows of tentacles.
These are fewer in number than in any other described species, ranging from 52-60.^ In the great majority of the polyp heads which have been examined the number was 54 ; far less frequently they range upward through 56 and 58 to 60, in only one instance passing that number.
On the other hand the tentacular hooks of the statoblasts are more numerous than in G. ophidioidea, and about the same as in the other species.
Three species of the genus have been already described, G. mucedo, Cuvier, in Europe, and G. Idee, Leidy, and G. ophidioidea, Hyatt, in America, The differences existing amongst them are not considerable, and it admits of question whether all should not be merged under the prior title.
In the present condition of the subject it would seem that the species now brought forward is at least as clearly differentiated from any of the former ones as they are from each other.
I will therefore name it, provisionally, Gristatella lacustris.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV.
Fig 1 represents a transverse section through the centre of a statoblast of this species, Gristatella lacustris ; a, a, the exposed chitinous surfaces of the valves ; b, b, the reflexed ; c, c, the bent, incurved retentive hooks ; d, d, section of the annuhis, or ring of air cells surrounding the chitinous body of the statoblast ; e, e, the part of the rim at which the valves separate at the time of germination, as is shown on a larger scale in Fig.
2, which represents one end of the section of a similar statoblast in the act of separation, the parts indicated by letters corresponding to those on fig.
1, with the addition of /, a delicate film which is being stripped from the under siirface of the annulus, and g, (/, which suggest the relative sizes and frequency of the papillae upon the exposed surface of the valves.
Fig.
3 exhibits for comparison a corresponding section of the statoblast of Pectinatella magnifica, Leidy, lettered as before ; a, a, the exposed surface of the valves ; b, b, the single series of anchorate hooks ; d, d, sections of the annulus, itself divided by the line e, e, along ^ In C. mucedo and C. Idee these are said' to be "about 80."
In C ophidioidea, "not above 90."
which the separation of the valves in this genus is effected, as shown in Fig.
4, much the larger portion of the annulus with all the hooks (which are formed by expansions of its dermal surface) remaining upon one side, and a smaller part, composed of coarser air cells upon the other.
It will be noticed that in Pectinatella the annulus is formed of two distinct series of cylindrical cells, short upon one side of the separating line, several times this length upon the other.
The corresponding cells of Cristatella are much more complicated, being formed about numerous transverse lines upon the internal surface.
The figures have been carefully drawn by the aid of the camera lucida.
Fig.
5.
Outline views of the skeleton and statoblast spicules of the sponge Meyenia Leidyi : A, the normal skeleton spicule ; B and C, side and end views of the normal birotulate ; a, b, c, the corresponding features as modified by their environment upon the iron pipes as described.
200 [1884.
July 15.
Mr, Thomas Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
A paper entitled " The Geology of Delaware," by F. D. Chester, was presented for publication.
On Elasticity in the Filaments of Helianthus.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that in many composite flowers the pollen is ejected from the apex of the staminal tube, and it became a matter of interest to ascertain the mechanism by which this is accomplished.
The flowers of compositse ai-e much frequented by pollencollecting insects.
Honey-gatherers seldom resort to them.
It is difficult on this account to watch the flow of pollen in the open air, as it is collected by the insects as fast as it appears.
Some flowers of Helianthus lenticularis^ Dougl., were gathered, and for the purpose of study placed in saucers of water in a room where insects could not disturb them.
In this way it was observed that after the corolla tube had reached its full length, very early the following morning the staminal tube commenced to grow beyond the mouth of the corolla, and by about 9 A. M. had extended to a distance of about onefourth the whole length of the corolla.
The pollen then commences to emerge through the upper portion of the staminal tube, which, the stamens narrowing, has the apices free.
During the day the pollen continues to pour out, till by nightfall a large amount has accumulated at the apex of the tube.
A floret at this stage of growth is represented by fig.
1.
The morning of the second day the arms of the pistil emerge and commence to expand, and at onqe the staminal tube begins to descend, exhibiting at the end of the second day the appeai'ance indicated by fig.
2.
By the end of the third da}^, the staminal tube has retired entirely within the tube of the corolla, and with the pistil, commences to wither.
A. careful examiuation shows that through the whole course the column of united anthers remains entirel}' of the same length.
It is the filaments only which are elastic.
These stretch fully one-half their length.
Thej^ ai-e attached to the tube of the corolla at the inflated portion a short distance above the achene, and extend to about midway between this point and the end of the tubular portion at the base of the limb; but when the anther tube is extended as described in fig.
1, tlie filaments occupy the whole of this space.
This pollen could fall onthestigmaof theflower of the previous day, but as the stigma is already covered by pollen of its own, other pollen is hardly likely to be of much service ; and even if this outer circle did profit by the pollen of the inner, it would not be cross-fertilization in an}^ legitimate sense of the word.
We may say emphatically that the arrangements favor self-fertilization.
An interesting feature is the change in the form of the floret on the second day of expansion.
At the point where the stamens are inserted on the corolla, the tube is somewhat inflated and covered by short hair.
On the first day this inflated portion is elongated, and the whole tube luiiformly cylindrical, as in fig.
1.
On the second day the inflation is depressed, and the corolla hypocrateriform as in fig.
2, This is probably owing to the partial withering of the corolla, but it is worth noting as a guide in the study of the florets of compositte — the normal form is that exhibited before the anthers mature.
The extension of the staminal tube is evidently mechanical, and is due solely to the upward growth of the stigma, which, partlj' it seems by the incurved points of the stameus, and partl}^ perhaps b^'^ the expansion of the arras of the pistil, is able to carry the tube up with it.
This force being removed as soon as the arms emerge, the elastic stamens draw the tube down again to its normal location.
This portion of the observation was made by Mr. Alois Lunzer, the artist of the Flowers and Ferns of the United States, then engaged in making a painting of the flower for that work.
The eflect of this process is to render the plant strictly a selffertilizer.
The arms of the pistil are covered with rigid hair having an upward direction.
By the pushing upwards of the pistil in its endeavor to escape from the embrace of the stamens, these hairs brush the pollen upwards, and it is in this way that the pollen is forced through the fissures at the apex as already described.
When the arms emerge, they are completely covered with own-pollen, which remains till the stigmas mature.
Helianthus lenticularis is the common annual sunflower of the Western plains, and believed by Professor Asa Gray to be the parent of the garden sunflower.
This is not in bloom at the present date.
One species, Helianthus hirsutus, is in bloom, and exhibits similar features, and the}^ are probably characteristic of the whole genus, and perhaps of other composite plants.
In Centaurea the apex of the anther tube is closely united, and is taken up with the development of the pistil, which finally escapes through a rupture at the side.
But in this case there seems to be a cotemporaneous growth of the filaments.
At any rate there is no elasticity, and the staminal tube is not drawn back to the tube of the corolla.
Pollen is, however, brushed out b}^ the stigmatie hair, and each floret receives own-pollen as in Helianthus.
The following was ordered to be printed : — 14 CATALOGITE OF MAKTNE SPONGES, COLLECTED BY MR. JOS.
WILLCOX, ON THE WEST COAST OF FLORIDA.
BY HENRY J. CARTER, F. R. S., ETC.
The fragments of the sponges collected by Mr. Willcox which reached me from Philadelphia on June 12, 1884, are all numbered, 1-59, and have been taken from specimens which, bearing the same numbers, have been retained at Philadelphia for identification, when the result of my examination shall have been received ; hence the numbers in the catalogue will be found to correspond with those on the specimens at Philadelphia, It should be remembered that they are all dry specimens, and that what I have to examine are only " fragments," hence there is very little to be said of each beyond name, form, consistence and color, together with the form and dimension of the spicule respectively, while they are arranged in accordance with the classification that I have proposed in ray " Notes Introductory to the Study and Classification of the Spongida," published in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History, for 1875, vol xvi, p. 1, etc.^ Catalogue.
Ord.
II.
CERATINA.
Fam.
2.
APLYSINIDA.
No, 19, Aplysina cauliformis, Crtr.
("Annals and Mag.
Nat.
History," 1882, vol.
ix, p. 270).
Ord.
III.
PSAMMONEMATA.
Fam, 1, BIBTJLIDA.
Group 2, Parasponqiosa.
No.
41.
Paraspongia ?
sp.
Allied to the officinal sponge, but with more arenaceous (sand-bearing) fibre. '
Abbreviations.— "Ann."
for Annals and Mag.
of Nat.
Hist.
"Bk."
for Bowerbank, monograph of British Spongiada, vol.
iii.
"Sdt."
for Schmidt.
Measurements of the spicules those of the largest present, showing their dimensions across and longitudinally.
Fam.
2.
HIRCINIDA.
Group 3.
HiRCiNiosA.
No.
23.
Hircinia?
sp.
Massive, erect, lobate.
Surface even, minutely reticulated ; projecting arenaceous tags ; consistence resilient.
Color now brown.
No.
26.
Hircinia ?
sp.
Fragment too insignificant for description.
No.
31.
Hircinia tubulosa, Crtr.
Consisting of a conical mass of erect tubular processes.
Consistence resilient.
Color light sponge.
Fibre scantily cored with arenaceous substance (named after its form).
No.
36.
Hircinia ?
sp.
Sessile, with solid cylindrical erect branches or processes interunited.
(>onsistence resilient.
Color now sponge-brown.
?
= No.
23.
(Note.
— As the fibre of these Hircinide was invested with sarcode diflferent from the color of the fibre itself, there is no saying what color the latter was in its natural state.)
No.
52.
Hircinia ?
sp.
Sarcode destroyed by Spongiophaga communis^ Crtr.
(See " Parasites of the Spongida," Ann., 1878, vol.
ii, p.
168.)
Look at the white substance under a microscope, to see the filaments of the parasite.
No.
53.
Hircinia?
sp.
Branched; branches solid, cylindrical.
No.
54.
Hircinia ?
sp.
Has grown over sedgy leaves.
No.
55.
Hircinia ?
sp.
Sessile, composed of erect conical tubes.
Group 16.
Arenosa.
No.
59.
Spongelia, Sdt., ?avara, Sdt.
No.
57.
Spongelia avara, Sdt.
Red sarcode (Sp.
Adriat.
Meeres, p. 29, taf.
3, fig.
6).
No.
51.
Spongelia^ Sdt.
?
sp.
:= Dysidea, Bk.
Fragment much worn.
No.
44.
Spongelia, Sdt.
?
sp.
No.
43.
Dysidea, Bk.
Like No.
39, but fibrous.
?
Spongelia, Sdt.
No.
24.
Spongelia, Sdt., ?
pallescens, Sdt.
(Sp.
Adriat.
Meeres, p. 28).
Dysidea, Bk.
No.
39.
Dysidea tenerrima, Crtr.
Merely sarcode and sand producing " columnar " structure.
No fibre ; thus bearing much the same relation to the Hirciniosa that the Holorhaphidota do to the Rhaphidonemata, viz., a minimum of Kerasine (named after its structure).
Ord.
iy.
rhaphidonemata.
.
Fam.
1.
CHALINIDA.
Group 1.
DiGITATA.
No.
13.
Ghalina oculata, Bk.
A delicate growth.
No.
25.
Ghalina oculata, Bk.
A form of.
No.
28.
Ghalina oculata, Bk.
Has grown over woody stems.
No.
29.
Ghalina oculata, Bk.
Short-branched delicate growth.
No.
42.
Ghalina oculata, Bk.
Form of.
Fam.
2.
CAVOCHALINIDA.
Group 6.
ACULEATA.
No.
22.
Tuba sororia, Duchass.
de Fonb.
et Michel.
(Spongiares de la mer Caraibe, PI.
8, fig 2.
Harlem, 1864.
Also see "Ann."
1882, vol.
ix, p. 277, under " Cavochalinida," W. Indian Sponges).
No number.
Tuba sororia (D. et M., PI.
8, fig.
2).
Covered, with empty holes, formerly the abodes of a parasitic polyp.
Ord.
Y. ECHINONEMATA.
Fam.
1.
Group 4.
ECHINOGLATHRATA.
No.
16.
Echinoclathria ?
sp.
Dense mass of erect, small, round, short-jointed branches, polychotomously dividing and ending in short processes with rounded terminations ; knotty on the surface, chiefly from the presence of a small parasitic polj-p. Consistence hard.
Color now gray.
Texture dense.
Spicule of one form only, viz.
: acute, short, robust, sub-capitate, the shortest internally and the longest echinating the fibre.
Size, about 14 by 1 — 1800 in.
(Like Glathria coralloides, Sdt., Sp.
Adriat.
Meeres, taf.
V, figs.
10 and 11.)
No.
27.
Echinoclathria ?
sp.
The same as No.
16, but with compressed interuniting branches ending in pointed terminations, but no parasitic polyp.
Spicule about 18 by 2 — 1800 in.
No.
30.
Echinoclathria?
sj?.
Fragment too insignificant for general description.
Compressed, interuniting branches, ending in pointed divisions.
Consistence firm.
Color light sponge-yellow.
Fibre short-jointed, bearing internally and externally capitate acuates, the latter the longest and projecting in tufts, mixed with a small echinating, spinous acuate (?
Dictyocylindrus, Bk.).
No.
37.
Echinoclafhria?
sp.
Dense mass of compressed, proliferous, interuniting branches arising from a contracted base, growing on the valve of an Area, terminating in compressed, somewhat expanded divisions.
Surface subhispid.
Consistence hard, tough.
Color now brown.
Bearing a parasitic polyp (Palythoa).
Fibre short-jointed, amber-colored, bearing three forms of spicules, viz.
: 1, robust, acuate with globular tuberculated head, about 23 by 2 — 1800 in.
in its greatest dimensions ; 2, long smooth acuate, 20 by ^—1800 in.
; 3, echinating spicule, clavate, spined, small, 6 by i— 1800 in.
(Note.— If the " tuberculated head " is not an accidental form, it is a markedly distinguishing character.)
No.
38.
The same as No.
21.
No.
46.
Echinoclathria?
sp.
Fragment useless for general form.
Flimsy branched, interuniting, ridged.
Consistence firm.
Color now whitish gray.
Fibre tough, short-jointed, ambercolored, bearing two forms of spicule, viz.
: 1 , large, long and short robust acuates, less in diameter at the large end than in the middle of the shaft; 2, echinating, short spinous acuate.
Fam.
2.
AXINELLIDA.
Group 6.
MULTIFORMTA.
No.
6.
Reniera digitata, Sdt.
(Spong.
Adriat.
Meeres, p. 15, taf.
7, fig.
11.)
Massive, sessile lobate.
Surface cellular, roughened by ridges and small processes.
Consistence firm.
Color orange.
Structure cellular.
(?
A species of the genus Higginsia, Higgin, "Ann.," 1877, vol.
19, p. 291 ; vol.
xiv, fig.
1.)
No.
7.
Higginsia coralloides, Higgin ("Ann.," 1. c).
No.
15.
Axinellid,?
gen. et sp.
Fragment shreddy, branching, tough, brown color.
Fibre short-jointed, very tough and ambercolored, hispid, bearing three forms of spicules, viz.
: 1, robust, simple, acuate, long and short; 2, fine, long, setaceous, acuate ; 3, small, navicular anchorate, flesh-spicule.
The acuates are situated partly in and partly projecting from the fibre echinatingly, with the anchorate plentifully scattered about their base of attachment.
(?
Glathria Sdt., Sp.
Adriat.
Meeres).
No.
35.
Axinella polypoides, Sdt.
(Sp.
Adriat.
Meeres, p. 3, taf.
6, fig.
4).
No.
45.
Higginsia coralloides, Higgin ("Ann.," 1. c).
Erect branches, compressed interuniting, roughened by small projecting processes.
Consistence now hard.
Color whitish gray, spicules of two forms, viz.
: 1, large acerate, smooth, 40 by 2 — 1800 in.
; 2, small acerate, spinous, partly in and partly out of the fibre, projecting echinatingly from the surface.
Ord.
YI.
HOLORHAPHIDOTA.
Fam.
1.
RENIERIDA.
Group 1.
Amorphozoa, No.
5.
Halichondria panicea, Bk., attached to sea-weed, covered with white Melobesia.
No.
12.
Halichondria panicea, Bk.
No.
34.
Halichondria panicea, Bk.
No.
58.
Halichondria panicea, Bk., much worn.
Fam.
2.
ISODICTYOSA.
No.
IT.
Isodictya, Bk.
?
sp.
Fragment of a branch.
Consistence crumbly.
Color white.
Spicule acerate, 11 by | — 1800 in.
(Where the spicule is acerate, which is generally the case, the species ai'e ill-defined, as yet.)
Group 3.
Thalyosa.
No.
48.
Reniera?
sp.
Fragmentofacylindrical, solid branch, in which the fibre is entirely composed of small acerate spicules, about 13-1800 in.
long.
(These species, for the foregoing reason, are, as yet, ill-defined , except where their general form is peculiar.)
No.
49.
The same.
Group 6.
Halichondrina.
No.
32.
Halichondria incrustans, Mihi.
Yariety with "angulated " (Bk.)
anchorate and smooth acuate.
Consistence crumbly.
Color white.
Fragment massive, attached to a dark green, dry, gelatinous, now hardened mass, which, if not one of the " Carnosa," is probably the remains of a compound tunicated ascidian.
Suberites par excellence.
Groups 10, 11 and 12.
Cavernosa, Compacta, Laxa.
10.
Cavernosa.
No.
3.
Suberites?
sp.
Fragment useless for general form, as the whole is broken down into a mass of spicular pulp and fibre.
Color yellowish.
Spicule of one form onl}^, viz., pin-like; shaft smooth, slightly fusiform and curved ; head oval ; size, 30 by 1—1800 in.
(?
= No.
18.)
No.
10.
Raphyrus Griffithsii, Bk.
Branched tubular variety, therefore might he designated " ramotubulata," Crtr.
(The first instance of this form that I have seen.)
No.
11.
The same, but the usual massive, solid form.
N. B.
— It is Gliona celata, which, after having destroyed the oyster-shell in which it generally burrows, grows into the free form called by Dr. Bowerbank " Raphyrus Griffithsii " (Mon., vol.
iii, pi.
64).
No.
18.
Suberites ?
sp.
Fragment branched and interuniting most irregularly.
Surface covered with short warty and digitiform processes.
Consistence light corky.
Color ochre-yellow.
Structure cellulo-cavernous.
Spicule of one form only, viz., pinlike ; shaft smooth, slightly fusiform and curved ; head oval, often followed towards the shaft, by an annular inflation ; size, 30 by 1_1800 in.
No.
33.
Suberites ?
sp.
Fragment useless for general form ; further than that it is verj^ irregular and interuniting, suberitelike.
Consistence firm.
Color white.
Structure cancello-cavernous.
Spicule of one form only, viz., pin-like ; shaft smooth, slightly fusiform and curved ; head globo-conical ; about 65 by 1—1800 in.
No.
1.
Suberites?
sp.
Massive, erect, sessile, terminating in small, conical processes.
Consistence now firm.
Color gray outside, yellowish inside.
Structure cancello-cavernous.
Spicule of one form only, viz., pin-like ; shaft smooth, slightly fusiform and curved ; head nearly oval ; point obtusely rounded ; size 25 by 1 — 1800 in.
in its greatest dimensions.
(If the obtuseness of the point is not accidental, this is a good character.)
11.
Compact A.
No.
4.
Suberites ?
sp.
Taking the form of the Serpulatubes over which it has grown, interuniting and enclosing shells.
Consistence hard now and compact.
Surface villous.
Color yellowish gray.
Spicule of one form only, viz., pin-like ; shaft smooth, slightly fusiform and curved; head oval, often prolonged posteriorly ; size 50 by 1 — 1800 in.
No.
8.
Suberites ?
sp.
Taking its form from the sedgy leaves over which it has grown.
Consistence cheesy, now hard.
Color greenish outside (adventitious ?
), yellowish within.
Like Hymeniacedon carnosa, Bk., in consistence and structure, if not in the forjn of the head of the spicule.
No.
40.
Suberites?
sp.
Irregularly branched, interuniting, ending in round-topped processes.
Consistence compact.
Color reddish yellow.
Spicule of one form onl^', viz., pin-like ; head globular with posterior projection, tricuspid like in profile.
(?
Suberites marsa, Sdt., Sp.
Adriat.
Meeres, p. 6*1, taf.
T, fig.
2.)
12.
Laxa.
No.
20.
Halichondria sanguinea, Bk.
(Mon., vol.
iii, pi.
32, fig.
5).
Fam.
13.
DONATINA.
No.
47.
Tethya lyncurium^Ws.. (pi.
15, fig.
17, op.
cit.).
Robust form with large cavernous excavations on the surface, and bundles of spicules sunk in the dry, dark, chondroid tissue.
Fam.
14.
GEODINA.
No.
21.
Geodia tuberculosa, Bk.
(Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1872, p. 676, pi.
46).
No.
50.
The same.
Cylindrical fragment.
Ord.
YIII.
CALCAREA.
No.
9.
Ascaltis Lamarckii, Haeckel (Die Kalkschwarame, vol.
2, p. 60, Atlas, taf.
9, fig.
5).
Massive, growing among sand and round the stems of sea-weed.
Enveloping sand.
{Clathrina, Gray.)
Numbers absent, viz., 2, 14 and 56.
Observations.
Lest it should be thought that it is only necessary to present a fragment of a sponge to have its name and description pointed out as readily as this might be done with a plant in botany, the former being expected from the accumulated product of a few years, while the latter is one of centuries, I would append the following remarks on the above " Catalogue ^^ : — The family of Hircinida requires to be generally reviewed, but the time for this has not arrived, since if not by actual specimens preserved when fresh in a wet state, it must be done by a review of all the illustrated descriptions of this kind that have been published ; while considering that the specimens of Hircinida are exceedingly numerous and very much alike, nothing but an opportunity of this kind holds out any hope of their e\QY being collated, divided and finally arranged in such a manner as would be useful to the student.
In the spiculiferous sponges the form of the spicule often facilitates this, but in the Hircinida generally.
when divested of the sarcode, which often has a particular color, there is absolutely nothing left but the horny fibre covered with a heterogeneous assemblage of foreign objects, viz., sand, fragmentary sponge-spicules and other microscopic bodies, which vary in amount and kind with those which are most plentiful in the locality where the sponge may be growing, if we except the general form which the skeletons composed of this fibre may retain.
The Suberites par escellence, too, like the Hircinias, require a similar treatment, for here the skeletal spicule, being for the most part simply pin-like, is so similar and so slightly varied in form, that, in most instances, this alone would be insufiicient for distinction.
However, the skeletal spicule is often accompanied by a flesh-spicule of a spini-spirular or other form, which lessens the difficulty; but they can seldom be seen without mounting a microscopic fragment in balsam, when the transparency renders them (if there are any) plain, which the wet sarcode previously rendered obscure.
This should be done with all the specimens above mentioned, as it involves an amount of time which I now have not at my disposal ; hence can only recommend the student to consult my initiatory attempt to do this in the " Annals " of 1882 ("West Indian Sponges," etc., vol.
9, p. 349, etc., pi.
xii, figs.
25-30).
See also, for the group Donatina and species Donatia lyncurium, "General observations " (lb.
ib., p. 358, etc.).
In m}' division of the Echinonemata, the first groups of the families Ectyonida and Axinellida respectivelj', viz., " 1 " and " 6 " i. e. " Pluriformia " and " Multiformia " are merely provisional terms for including a vast number of species which hereafter will have to undergo description, illustration and division, when they shall have been usefully collated, etc., after the manner already mentioned, but so much time, taste, labor and opportunity will be required for this, that many years must pass before it even approaches completion.
The number of species of sponges that exist and have still to be discovered has been chiefly foreshadowed to me by the dry specimens in the British Museum, upon which m}^ proposed " Classification " has been based, but cannot be put forthwith any certainty under such circumstances, more especially the subdivision of the orders.
210 proceedings of the academy of [1884.
July 22.
Mr. Thomas Meeeian, Yiee-President, in the chair.
Eleven persons present.
July 29.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair.
Eight persons present.
Sexual Characteristics in Zinnia.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan, referi'ino; to some so-called double Zinnias on the table, remarked on the change of sexual character which followed the change of a tubular to a ligulate floret This was not confined to Zinnia, but occurred in Dahlia, and, he believed, all composite flowers.
It must be a well-known fact, but had not, so far as he knew, been placed on record.
It was well worthy of study by those interested in the laws of sex.
In Zinnia a single ligulate floret would often be surrounded by tubular and hermaphrodite ones; but it would have the purely pistillate character of the ray florets.
In like manner, when, in the double Dahlia, the tubular florets became ligulate, the neutral character of the ray florets followed with them.
It was evident that in these cases there was an intimate connection between the form of the floret and its sexual character.
There was even a diff"erence in the form of the akene in the diff'erent florets of Zinnia.
The ligulate female floret had a broad akene, tapering at the summit, and with the apex very hairy ; while the akene of the tubular hermaphrodite floret was truncate, and entirely smooth.
He made some further remarks on the growth of the floret in connection with that of the staminal tube.
In many compositae the growth of the pistil continued for a day or two after the corolla had ceased to grow, pushing up often to a length double that of the corolla.
In Zinnia the growth of the floret was enormous on the last day, often doubling its previous length in twenty-four hours.
It always remained longer than the pistil, until it withered away, when the expanded arms of the pistil were exposed.
The anther cells burst before tiie floret opened, and, though the arms could not expand, enough pollen entered by the stigmatic fissure to ensure self-fertilization.
The following was ordered to be printed : — DESCRIPTION OF NEW SPECIES OF TERRESTRIAL MOLLTJSCA OF CUBA.
BY RAFAEL ARANGO.
Choanopoma uncinatum Arango (fig.
1).
Testa subperforata, oblongo pupseformis, teniuscula, truncata, filoso costata, furcescenti-albida, seriebus macularum rufarum longitudinaliter ornata ; sutura profunda, costis excurrentibus incrassatis albido-dentata ; anfr, siiperst.
4-5 convexiiisculi, ultimus antice solutus, dorso carinatus ; apertara verticalis, ovalis ; peritreraa duplex, internum breve, externum dilatatum, lateri dextro latiore, undulato, in angulo supero uncinate reflexum.
Operculum normale.
Long.
16 mill.
; diam.
t mill.
; apert.
4 mill.
Habitat.
— San Juan de las Lleras, prope Villaclara.
Siraillimura Tudorse Moreletianse, differt operculo Choanopomatum et forma altera peritrematis.
Cylindrella assimiJis Arango (fig.
2).
Testa simillima Cyl.
arcustriatse.
Differt statura magis cylindrica, costis minus confeitis, fortioribus ; fasciis spadicea suturam anfractus sequentis tangente et prope peri trema expansum terminante (magis conspieua quam in arcv striata).
Anfractus 12 testae integrse.
Long.
23-26 mill.
; diam.
6 mill.
; apert.
4 mill.
Habitat.
— La lagua, prope La Palma in provincia Pinar del Rio.
Cylindrella contentiosa Arang'^.
Testa vix rimata, fusiformi-turrita, fusco-cornea, pallidee pauce variegata ; spira sursum sensim attenuata ; truncata ; sutura subcrenulata ; anfr.
superst.
14-15 planulati, ultimus adnatus, basi filoso-carinatus ; apertura subcircularis ; peritrema undique jequaliter expansum, album.
Long, testae truncatae 14-16 mill.
; diam.
3 mill.
Columna interna lamina unica acuta oblique circumvoluta.
Habitat.
— San Juan de las Lleras, prope Villaclara.
Cylindrella Lajoncherei Aiango.
Testa fiisiformi-elongata, gracilis, subtruncata, tenuis, suboblique costata, diaphana, albicla ; anfr.
superst.
15-17, ultimus solutus, deorsum protractus ; sutura simplex ; apertura oblique circularis, peritrema undique breviter expansum.
Long.
15-17 mill.
; diam.
2^ mill.
Columna interna filoso-torta.
Habitat.
— San Juan de las Lleras, prope Yillaclara.
Similis Cyl.
Philippianse, differt forma longiori, eostis remotioribus et colore albido (nee fusculo-variegato).
Cylindrella Thomsoni Arango (fig.
3).
Testa similis Cyl.
coloratse (vide descriptionem) sed differt statura magis cylindrica, colore corneo, testa pellucida, fascia spadicea solummodo in anfractu ultimo visible.
Anfractus 14 testse integrae.
Habitat.
— " La lagua^'' prope La Palma in provincia Pinar del Rio.
Cylindrella infortunata Arango (fig 4).
Pruc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
of Phila., 1882, p. 106.
Testa non rimata, subfusiformi-turrita, tenuis, diaphana, chordato-eostata, albido-cornea ; spira breviter truncata ; sutura profunda, non crenulata; anfr.
superstites 12, planiusculi, ultimus breviter solutus; basi obsolete carinatus; apertura subovalis ; peritrema expansiusculum, album.
Longitud.
testse truncatae 13 mill.
; diam.
3 mill.
Columna interna 3-plicata, plica superiori ampliori.
Habitat.
— Prsedium '■'■La Chorera^'' municipium Yifiales, in provincia Pinar del Rio.
Cylindrella colorata Arango (fig.
5).
Proc.
Ac^d.
Nat.
Sciences, 1882, p. 106.
A figure of this species is now given from a t3^pe specimen.
1884.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
213 August 5.
Mr. Edw.
Potts in the chair.
Eleven persons present.
On Paludicella erecta.
— Mr. Edward Potts desired to have a preliminary record made of his recent discovery or identification of a new species of Paludicella^ for which he proposes the name Paludicella erecta.
This genus of fresh-water polyps has heretofore contained only the single clearly defined species P. Ehrenhergi^ Van Beneden (Alcyonella articulata, Ehrenberg"), the other two names, P. procumbens and P. elongata, suggested by Mr. Albany Hancock and Prof. Leidy, being considered by Prof. Allman as identical with the original type.
The present form is strikingly diff"erent from the old one, both in the number of its ciliated tentacles and in the character of the coenoecial cells.
The doubt which has lingered in the mind of the speaker has not been as to the species, but whether, in view of the difficult determination of the characteristic septae between the cells, amounting in fact to an apparent absence of them, a new genus might not be required to accommodate it.
It was first noticed in Tacon}^ Creek, a small stream in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, at that place perhaps fifty feet above tide-water.
A few days after it was also gathered within tidal limits in both the Delaware and Schuylkill Rivers, near Philadelphia.
In the first-named locality it was found most abundantly in the pools amongst the rapids of the stream, frequently covering the upper surface of stones, at the depth of a foot or more, to the extent of many square inches.
The erect portions of the coenoecial cells in the denser parts of the colonies are about a line in height and, standing very closely, suggest a comparison with the surface of a chestnut-burr.
In the rivers they were found penetrating the mass of encrusting sponges, particularly Meyenia Leidyi.
These upright tubules are chitinous prolongations of very irregularly inflated cells, resting in compact disorder upon the supporting surface, crossed and connected in some manner not yet intelligible, by meandering cylindrical rhizomes, sometimes of great relative length.
These are mostly terminal and simple, but are sometimes branched and frequently originate in an indifferent lateral portion of a cell.
The tubular prolongations are, of course, always single ; the invaginated polyp retiring within the inflated portion of the cell.
Septae were, in a few instances, discovered in the rhizomes near their insertion or connection with the inflated portion of the cells.
The upright portions of those cells which seemed to be least matured were longer than those of their older neighbors, subclavate or spindleshaped and rounded at the extremities.
The otliers are cylindrical or slightly widening downwai'ds and shorter tlian the former bj^ the invagination of the terminal portion of the ectocyst.
This has the effect of producing the angular appearance of the orifice, so familiar in the older species ; but while that is generally quadrangular, this has frequently five or more sides.
The younger cells are nearly transparent, but they darken with age and become somewhat encrusted with adherent particles and overgrown by commensal parasites, Limnias, Pi/xicola, and the like.
The polypides are shy, but fond of the light, and when otherwise undisturbed will remain for a long time protruded in the full glare of microscopic illumination.
It can then be seen that the lophophore is circular, without epistome, supporting ordinarily twenty tentacles, taking the shape of a claret glass and opening upwards.
(Nineteen and twenty-one tentacles have been doubtfully counted, while the above-mentioned number is frequent; F. Ehrenbergiis universally stated to have but sixteen).
A peculiarity of the tentacles is the presence upon the outer median line of each, of a ratlier sparsely filled series of quiescent setae, in strong contrast with the rapidly moving cilia around them.
The development of this polyp from the ovum, of which interesting hints have been obtained, and its internal structural peculiarities, are reserved for further study, and if satisfactory results shall have been attained, they will be treated of in a later paper.
The nearly simultaneous observation of this species in three distinct localities, and its abundance in each, indicates that it is probably not uncommon, and excites surprise that it does not appear to have been previously noticed.
August 12.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
A Large Zircon.
— Dr. A. E. Foote recorded the discovery of the largest crystal of zircon ever known.
It is dj inches high, 4 inches on one face and 3| inches on the other.
It undoubtedly originally weighed twelve pounds, but owing to a small portion being lost by fracturing it now weighs but eleven and three-quarter pounds.
The largest cr3^stal ever known before weighed less than three pounds.
The crystal is doubly terminated, and, though somewhat broken in taking out nearly all the pieces were saved.
At one end there are two terminations and one of these was broken off in some great convulsion of the earth's surface.
This had been separated from the main cr3'stal by a piece of orthoclase that had unmistakably been formed since the rupture of the crystal.
Such a fact is of great importance in studying the geological history of the formation.
The locality is Brudinelle, Renfrew Co., Ontario, Canada, and the rock is a vein of pink feldspar in a Laurentian gneiss.
It is associated with sphene and crystals of peristerite (?).
Some of the faces of the latter show tiie moonstone reflections very plainly.
Cavities once filled with calcite (now mostly dissolved away) occur in the vein.
There are also some small crystals that need further examination.
August 19.
Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
The death of W. L. Schaeffer, a member, was announced.
August 26.
Mr, J. H. Redfield in the chair.
Fourteen persons present.
The death of James L. Claghorn, a member, was announced.
Edward P. Bliss and Ralph W. Seiss, M.D., were elected members.
September 2.
Rev.
H. C. McCoOK, D. D., Yice-President, in the chair.
Twent3'-one persons present.
On the wide Distribution of some American Sponges.
— Allusion having been made to the wide distribution of certain species of spiders over the North American continent, Mr. E. Potts, referring to the fresh-water sponge fauna of this country, said, that Spongilla fragilis, the first sjtecies named in America, described by Dr. Leidy in 1851 from specimens collected near Philadelphia, bad since been found abundantly along the Atlantic coast from Florida to Nova Scotia.
It had been gathered at several points along the St. Lawrence and in the great lakes, through the middle continent, and in the far west had been described by Dr. Bowerbank, in 1863, under the name of S. Lordii, as found in the lakes and streams flowing from the Cascade Range in British Columbia, affluents of the majestic Columbia River.
The species ma^^, therefore, be regarded as strictly continental in its range, and until very recently it has been distinctively American.
It is a little singular that the only other place in which it has been noticed is in the neighborhood of Charkow, in Russia, where it was discovered, a few months since, by Dr. L. Dybowski.
The specimens of this species from Nova Scotia had been collected by Mr. A. H. Mackay, B. A.,B.
S., of Pictou Academy, Pictou, N. S., from whom the speaker had recently received a collection of sponges, phenomenal in its character, both as regards the number of genera and species represented, and the excellent judgment that had attached to most of them their proper names, from apparently very insufficient data.
The collection was the result of few days' search within a limited district, " from lakes in and near the water shed of Nova Scotia, near the borders of the three counties of Pictou, Guysboro and Antigonish," at elevations of from 100 to 700 feet above sea level.
Of the genus Spongilla^ it contains three species, S. lacustris^ S.fragilis, and S. iglooiformis ; of the genus J^fej/ema, two species, M. fiuviatilis and M. Everetti; of the genus Heteromei/enia, two, H. argyrosperma and H. Byderi, and of the genus TiibeUa, one species, T. Pennayivanica — eight species, representing four genera.
Besides these there were small specimens of another species, evidently new, but whose genus relations could not be determined on account of the absence of statoblasts.
In some respects the most important find in the collection is Meyenia Everetti Mills ; this being only the second instance in which the species has been discovered.
The original locality was Gilder Pond upon Mt.
Everett, in Berkshire Co., Mass., at an elevation of 1800 or 2000 feet above the sea.
It was there collected by Dr. F. Wolle and Mr. H. S. Kitchel of Bethlehem, Pa., well known for their invaluable work among the desmids and diatoms ; and examined simultaneously by Mr. H. Mills of Buffalo, N. Y., and the speaker.
Its most striking peculiarity is the presence, all through the dermal tissues, of very minute birotulate spicules, the only instance in which these have been observed as characteristic features of the dermal surface in any fresh-water sponges ; unless the complicated forms found in Mtyenia plumosa Carter, may be considered an exception.
These birotulates in the present collection average one-third longer than those before examined, and are in every way more robust.
The si)eaker was gratified in finding this confirmation of a rule which he has long since observed to hold amongst the infinite variations of size and form noticeable in collections of the same species from various localities ; viz , that the spicules of all species increase regularly in size and solidity as we descend from high altitudes towards the sea-level, where is found the exti'eme limit of the series.
He does not attribute this gradation to a change of climatic conditions, but more probably to a gradual and constant improvement in the food-supply or in the siliceous constituent of the water.
He has traced the workings of the rule more particularly through the very variable species, Spongilla lacustris and S.fragilis; in Meyenia fluviatilis^ in Heteromeyenia argyrosperma and H. Kyderi, and lastly and most conspicuously in Tuhella Fenvsylvanica.
The extremes in this last series differ so widely that they wJbld hardly be taken to belong to the same species, but the intermediate grades have all been collected, largely from the same stream ; and as a result several species named in this and other cases, have relapsed into synonyms.
September 9.
Dr. W. S. W. RuscHENBEEGER, in the chair.
Eleven persons present.
The death of R. E. Rogers, M. D., a member, was announced.
September 16.
Rev.
H. C. McCooK, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
On the Minute Fauna of Fairmount Beservoir.
— Mr. E. Potts alluded to the difficulties that ordinarily prevent a thorough study of the fixed aquatic fiiuna, which he described as thereby generally limited to collections from the shallow water near the margins of lakes and streams, or of such forms as may adhere to the few timbers or stones that can be dragged from a greater depth.
He therefore urged the importance of making use of such opportunities as are furnished by the temporary drainage of reservoirs, canals, etc., to examine thoroughly the incrustations upon exposed walls and timbers, or on the bed of the stream.
Such an occasion was affoixled a few days since, when the accidental breaking of a valve necessitated the drawing ofi' of the water from tlie Fairmount reservoirs.
These are divided by perpendicular walls, eight or ten feet in height, and, unfortunately, facilities were not at hand in the shape of ladders, planks, etc., to enable him to make a minute examination of them.
From the margin, however, could be seen at many places patches of the s\do\)ges, Spongilla fragilis and Meyenia Jiuviatilis^whila the cages over the outlet ])ipes, and, more strikingly, the walls surrounding the main outlet at the southeast corner, were thickly encrusted with Meyenia Leidyi.
The last-named sponge is very compact and little liable to crumble during the winter season, so that it is probable that the large masses, some of them nearly an inch in thick15 ness, and a foot or two in diameter, represent the aggregation of several ^^ears.
In a few places, at tlie base of the walls, the pale green branches of Spongilla lacuatris could be seen, and occasionall}', to the speaker's surprise, slender waving processes of the same species, totally colorless, could be seen reaching up through the mud in little groups upon the bottom.
He was surprised, because he had always held that it was impotsible for sponges to live upon a muddy bottom, and theoretic reasoning would still suggest that probably only this species, which can thus hold itself up out of the suffocating silt, can survive the constant deposition of siliceous particles.
The total amount of sponge growth was relatively small, and the probability of an aqueous taint from it, very remote.
The commensal habit of many of the lower animals who feed by the creation of ciliary whirlpool currents, has been frequently referred to ; the weaker current-makers, such as vorticell0e,stentors, and the errant and tubicolous rotifers, planting themselves about the heads of the stronger pol^'zoa to supply their own nets with what may have escaped from the others.
The same instinctive principle which leads all these to locate themselves most plentifully amongst the stones in the rapids of streams, was particularly noticeable in promoting their aggregation upon and in the neighborhood of the inlet and outlet gates of tiie reservoirs.
The feeble currents produced b}' each can only bring within its reach the floating provision from a!
very limited area; the volume of water poured through these gates brings to them a rich supply, and the numbers and variety of these organisms increase in proportion.
Of the fixed forms were seen amongst the bryozoa, beside one or more undetermined species of Flumatella — Pectinatella magnifica and Urnatella gracilis of Leidy, and the newly described Paludicella erecta.
Attached to these were Yorticellae, Epistilis and Stentors innumerable; Pyxicola SLud Acineta; rotifers of various names, including prominently Limnias and other, probably undescribed forms among the Melicertidse.
Very abundant among these was the interesting chsetobranch annelid, Manayunkia speciosa Leidy, which has of late been frequently noticed in this vicinity, and the wonderfully marine-looking hydroid Cordylophora lacustris.
This last was particularly abundant around the southeast outlet ; its stems forming a complete matting over many yards of surface, commingled with br3'ozoa and sponges in intricate confusion.
A large valve had been removed from a discharging main on the southern side of the reservoir hill, a hundred yards or more from the opening in the bottom of one of the basins, and where all light was consequently absent.
An incrustation, averaging perhaps three-eighths of an inch in thickness, upon the inner surface of this valve, was found to be largely composed of the gemmuhe and spicules of Meyenia Leidyi ; mingled with which were stems of Plumatella, Urnatella, and Cordylophora lacusfris.
The fact that all these can thus thrive in absolute darkness throws some doubt upon the supposed sensitiveness of these forms to the presence or absence of light, as does also the fact that while Faludicella Ehrenbergi is said to seek the darkest corners, the speaker found his new species, P. erecta, apparently rejoicing in the glare of the full sunlight.
Of course mau}^ other creatures than those above named were casually seen in this connection, including chiefly amoebae, freeswimming protozoans and entomostracans, planarian worms, hydras and aquatic insect-larvae ; but the former are particularly mentioned as among the most interesting and beautiful of those that freely and innocently drink of the same cup with ourselves.
September 23.
Mr. Edw.
Potts, in the chair.
Nine persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication : — "A Review of the American Species of the Genus Hemiramphus," b}' Seth E. Meek and David K. Goss, "A Review of the American Species of the Genus Teuthis," by Seth E. Meek and Martin L. Hoffman.
"A Review of the American Species of Scomberomorus," by Seth E. Meek and Robert G. Newland.
Tunisian Flints.
— Dr. D. G. Brinton remarked that the flints presented through him this evening had been received from the eminent archaeologist, the Marquis de Nadaillac, whose son, an officer in the French arm}^, obtained them at the station of Rasel-Oued, near Biban, on the southeastern coast of Tunis.
The specimens consist of flint chips, arrow-points, and a semi-lunar shaped implement of small size, which resembles the " stemmed scrapers " found in America.
This form was obtained from the lower levels, and is characteristic, in France, of the later productions of the stone age, especially of that epoch called by French archaeologists "'the epoch of Robenhausen," from the locality of that name in Switzerland.
Chronologicall}', this is the first epoch of the appearance of man on the globe, the previous implementusing animals being more properly anthropoids.
Those made use of stone onl}', not having learned the dressing of bone or horn.
This view adds to the interest of the query as to the purpose of these scrapers, as they are called in default of a better name.
That they were an important tool to the primitive man is evident from their wide distribution.
They have been found in France, in the Crimea, in India, in America, in strata of great antiquity (both North and South America), and here we have them in Africa.
The archaeology of the North African Coast has special claims to attention, as from there apparently a very ancient migration advanced northward, passing in one direction through Spain, and in another by way of Malta, Sicily and Italy.
This was cotemporary with the appearance of the Elephas Africanus in Europe, whose bones have been found in intimate association with those of man in various localities.
It was long anterior to the immigration of the Iberians or Basques, who by some are traced to North Africa.
Another point of interest may be added.
The only locality in the Old World where animal or effigy mounds have been reported is in North Africa, in Algiers, near the forest of Tenrit-el-Sad, south of Miliana.
As these peculiar structures are so frequent in the Mississippi Valley, the coincidence is worth noting.
Prof. Heilprtn contended, that while on the hj^pothesis of evolution no objection could be raised to an assumption which made an animal intermediate between man and the anthropoid apes sufficiently intelligent to understand the full value and manufacture of stone implements such as were exhibited, yet, as a matter of fact, paleontological evidence had thus far failed to prove that any such use or manufacture had been made of them, as was here claimed.
Indeed, no evidence was forthcoming to show that the implements were not the work of man himself, despite the fact that no traces of human remains were found associated with the fragments.
The assumption that the advent of man dates only to a given period of the so-called " stone age," was considered to be purely gratuitous, and to rest solely on negative evidence.
Many archaeologists concur in the belief that his remains may yet be found in deposits of strictly Tertiary age, and some, even in the early part of this period.
The speaker discussed the theory of the migration of races, and the successive introduction, into different regions, at different periods of time, of the various epochs marking the development of the human race.
September 30.
Mr. Edw.
Potts in the chair.
Twenty-four persons present.
Henry F. Osborn, John Wanamaker, and Miss Adele M. Fielde were elected members.
The following were ordered to be printed : — A EEVIEW OF THE AMEBICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS HEMIKHAMPHUS.
BY SETH E. MEEK AND DAVID K. GOSS.
The American species of the genus Hemirhamphus are in a condition of great confusion.
In this paper we have endeavored to give the synon3^ms of those species which seem to be valid, with an analysis of their specific characters.
The paper is based on specimens belonging to the Indiana University, and to the United States National Museum, all of them collected by Professor David S. Jordan on the coast of Florida and at Havana.
This collection comprises three of the four Atlantic species admitted by us, the published descriptions indicating the existence of another {H. balao), as yet unknown to us.
Euleptorhamphus longirostris is not here mentioned, as we regard it as the type of a genus distinct from Hemirhamphus.
We are very much indebted to Professor Jordan for use of his library and for valuable aid.
Analysis of American species of the genus Hemirhamphus.
a. Anal fin about as long as dorsal and opposite it, its rays 14 to 16 ; sides with a distinct silvery band ; last ray of dorsal not produced in a filament.
h. Ventrals inserted about midway between base of caudal and posterior margin of eye ; dorsal and anal fins scaly ; lat.
1.
53 to 56. c. Length of mandible (from tip of upper jaw) not longer than rest of head ; body and head comparatively robust; D. 15; A.
16. unifasciatus.
1. cc.
Length of mandible (from tip of upper jaw) not shorter than rest of head ; body comparatively slender.
D. 14 ; A.
15. roherti.
2. hb.
Ventrals inserted midway between base of caudal and gill openings ; dorsal and anal fins not scaly ; lat.
1.
63 ; D. 14 : A.
14. rosse.
3. aa.
Anal fin about f length of dorsal, its insertion behind that of dorsal, its rays 11 or 12; sides without distinct silvery band ; last ray of dorsal produced in a short filament.
d. Scales comparatively large, about 53 in lateral line ; upper lobe of caudal bright orange in life.
D. 14 ; A.
12. pleii.
4. dd.
Scales comparatively small, about 63 in lateral line ( Valenciennes) ; upper lobe of caudal dirty violet (Poey); D. 11-14; A.
11-12 (Poey).
balao.
51.
Hemirhamphus unifasciatus.
Hemirhamphus unifasciatus Raiizani, Nov. Comm.
Acad.
Sci.
Inst., Bonon, v, 1842, 3.6, Taf.
25 (Brazil) ; Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., vi, 1866, 262 (in'part ; West Indies ; Rio Janeiro) ; Cope, Tians.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc, 1871, 481 (St. Martin's) ; Jo: dan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 924 (Panama; no description).
(Not H. unifasciatus of most American writers.)
f HcmirhampJms picarti Cuv.
& Val., Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., xix, 1846, 25 (Africa).
HemirliamjiJius richardi Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., xix, 1846, 26 (Antilles ; Cayenne ; Bahia ; Rio Janeiro).
HyporhampTius tricuspidatus Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1859, 131 (Barbadoes).
Hemirhamphus fasciatus Poey, Memorias, ii, 1860, 299 (Cuba ; not of Bleeker).
Hemirhamphus poeyi Gimiher, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., vi, 1866, 262 (on H.fasciotus Foey) ; Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 1868, f.83 (Cuba) ; Poey, Enumeration Pise.
Cub., 1875, 121 (Cuba) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 273, 381 (Panama).
Habitat.
— Both coasts of tropical America and West Indies ; Panama ; Cuba ; West Indies ; Antilles ; St. Martin's ; Rio Janeiro ; Cayenne ; Bahia.
This species is known to us from many specimens collected by Professor Jordan at Havana and Key West.
Young examples are more slender than the old ones, and have the lower jaw proportionately shorter.
Both young and old are, however, more robust, shorter and thicker in every part than specimens of II.
roberti of the same size.
Except this diiierence of form, we are unable to detect any distinction whatever.
We have no doubt, however, that the two are reallv different.
The figure and description of Ranzani represents this species much better than H. roherti.
We therefore retain for it his original name.
H. richardi Cuvier & Valenciennes is evidently the same, and H. picorti is at least very similar.
Gill's Hyporhamphus tricufipidatus is not very satisfactoril}' described, but as its author afterwards refers to it as probably identical with H. richardi^ and as the description and locality" best fit that species, we have so considered it.
Our Havana specimens leave no doubt that H. fasciatus and its synonym, H. poeyi, are based on this species.
Its lower jaw is, however, longer than Poey describes, and but for this Dr. Giinther would evidently have referred Poey's description to H. unifasciatus.
Specimens collected by Captain Dow, at Havana, show that this is one of the species found on both sides of the isthmus.
2.
Hemirhamplius roberti.
HemirhampTius roberti Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., xix, 1846, 24 (Cayenne) ; Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., vi, 1866, 363 (New Orleans).
HemirhampJius unifasciatus Cope, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1870, 119 (Newport, R. I. ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1878, 383 (Beaufort, N. C), no description; Goode, Pioc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 116 (Name only) ; .Jordan, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 188D, 20 (San Sebastian River, Fla.) ; Jordan, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mvis., 1880, 22 (St. John's River, Fla.), no descriition ; Jordan and Gilbert, Pioc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 274 (Guaymas) ; Jordan and Gilbert, BuU.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 106 (Mazatlan) ; Joidan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 588 (CharLston, S. C.J ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 356 (Cape San Lucas) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 262 (Ptnsacola, Fla.); Goode and Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 389 (Gulf of Mexico), no description ; Jordan and Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 376.
HaMtat.—Eoih.
coasts of America, chiefly north of the tropics : Beaufort ; Charleston ; Pensacola, San Sebastian River ; Cedar Keys ; New Orleans ; Cayenne ; Mazatlan ; Guaymas ; Cape San Lucas.
All the specimens of Hemirhamphiis thus far taken on the Atlantic Coast of the United States, north of the Florida Keys (except one of H. pleii), belong to a species differing from the West Indian unifasciatus, in the slenderness of body and in the greater length of the lower jaw.
This is evidently the H. roberti of Giinther and the H. unifasciatus of all the American local lists.
The H. roherti of Cuvier and Valenciennes is very scantily described.
It is, however, related to H. unifasciatus, and is said to have the lower jaw longer than in H. richardi or H. picarti.
We therefore identify it with this species, with this element of doubt, that there is no other record of the slender form south of Central Florida.
This species occurs also in the Gulf of California.
Specimens from Charleston and from Mazatlan are described by Jordan and Gilbert, as having the anterior rays of dorsal and anal, and the upper and lower rays of caudal jetblack, but no other difference from the usual form was noted.
3.
Hemirhamphus rosae.
Hemirhamplius, sp.
incert., Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 29 (San Diego).
Hemirhamphus rosce Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 335 (San Diego, Cal.)
; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 457 (San Pedro, San Diego) ; Jordan and Jouy, Pioc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 13 (San Diego); Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 43 (San Diego) ; Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 316 (name only) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 376.
Habitat.
— Pacific Coast of United States ; San Diego ; San Pedro.
We have nothing to add to the account of this species.
4.
Hemirhamphus pleii.
Hemirhamphus marginatus Le Sueur, Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., ii, 1823, 135 (Lesser Antilles ; not of Forskal).
Hemirhamphus pleii Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., xix, 1846, 29 (Antilles ; Martinique ; San Domingo) ; Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., vi, 1866, 269 (Jamaica; Dominica; Bahia ; West Indies); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 103 (Bermudas).
Hemirhamphus filamentosus Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 1868, 382 (Cuba) ; Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 1875, 121 (Cuba).
Hemirhamphus bj-qsiliensis Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 902 (Hunger's Wharf, Virginia ; not of Giinther).
Habitat.
— Atlantic Coasts of America and West Indies, Virginia to Brazil.
Virginia ; Martinique ; San Domingo ; Jamaica ; Dominica ; Bermudas ; Bahia.
This species is very abundant at Key West, where it is known as Balao, and at Havana, where it is called Escribano.
It occasionally ranges northward, a specimen from Virginia being in the National Museum.
This is evidently Hemirhamphvs filamentosvs of Poey.
The scanty description of H. pleii of Cuvier and Valenciennes seems to refer to it, at least in large part, as this is the only species so far as known that has the upper lobe of the caudal red or yellow in life.
This is also the H. marginatus of Le Sueur, but not the original H. marginatus of Forskal.
5.
Hemirhamphus balao.
?
Eso.r maxilla inferiore producta Brown, Jamaica, 1756, 443, t. 45, f. 2 (Jamaica).
Esox brasiliensis Linnaeus, Syst.
Nat., ed.
10, 1758, 314 (in part ; reference to Brown ; not Timucu Marcgrave, which should be regarded as the Linnsean type, as having given rise to the name brasiliensis).
Hemirhamphus brasiliensis Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., vi, 1866, 270 (based on Hemirhnmphus broicni Cuv.
and Val.)
; ?
Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 109 (Panama ; name only) ; ?
Jordan .and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 624 (Panama).
Hemirhamphus balao Le Sueur, Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila., ii, 1823.
135 (Lesser Antilles).
Hemirhamphus broicni Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., xix, 1846, 13 (Guadalonpe ; Martinique).
Hemirhamphus macrochirus Poey, Memorias, ii, 1858, 299 (Cuba) ; Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 1875, 121 (Cuba).
Habitat.
— Coasts of tropical America and West Indies ; Jamaica; Lesser Antilles; Guadaloupe ; Martinique; Cuba; Panama.
We have not seen this species and are not entirely certain of its distinction from H. pleii.
In Hemirhamphus pleii the upper lobe of the caudal is always bright orange-red and the number of scales in a longitudinal series is about 56.
The description of H. balao, H. browni and H. macrochirus all refer to a fish with smaller scales, with both lobes of the caudal bluish, and H. browni and H. macrochirus have smaller scales than H. pleii.
The specimens obtained by Professor Gilbert at Mazatlan, Panama, we refer provisionally to this species, but they may prove different on actual comparison.
The oldest tenable name for this species seems to be H. balao Le Sueur.
Esox brasiliensis Linnaeus is based on Brown's description of a Hemirhamphus from Jamaica, and Marcgrave 's account of a 226 [1884.
Tylosurus from Brazil.
The name brasiliensis is evidently suggested by the latter, which should therefore retain it as specific name.
It does not appear also certain as to which species of Hemirhamphus is described by Brown.
TABLE OF MEASUREMENTS.
(In hundredths of length to base of caudal.)
H. unifasciatus.
H. roberti.
H. ros(e. H. pleii.
w* >> >.
>> ^ , liOCALITIKS, 1 01 a ^ ^ 1 1 1 >, >» >.
>, ^ c3 •a e3 •0 c3 ^3 a >.
tf 5?
>> >» o O 0) o © © V tt Q> _J_ •0 fl> 0) ui M M M M o O bd M M w « Length of speci-i 1 men, in inches.
7 45 8 05 7 56 545 5 2 6 75 615 85; 5-2 4 8 8 8-4 10-3 11-2 8 55 Head, fiom tip of 1 upper jaw toglU 1 1 opening.
(Hun1 1 dredths ) .
.211^21^22 23 22K 22>^ 23 23 23K 20 \%\i 18K 1934 18}^ 19 Head, from tip of i II lower jiiw to gill' 1 |i openings.
.
.423^401^42 43 433^47 47K«X48K 50 43 4414 413442 41M Distance of ven-1 trals from tip of snout.
.
.
.57 59 67 59 57 67 60 68 59 63 533454 54y2 52 52J4 Distanceof dorsal' from tip of snout 78 78 77>^78 78 77 79 78 79 76 6134 62 603459 60 Length of pec1 torais.
13 131^14 14 14 14 14 14 14^ UK 14 14 13^14 14 Deptli of flsh at 1 .
1 _ ventrals.
.
14 143^14 131^14 13 13 12 13 11% 12 1134 12-^18^4 1234 Thickness of flsh at ventrals.
10 11 1034 9 9X m S'A 8% 8M 8 6 6 6 6 6 Least depth of, 1 caudal peduncle 5}^ 6 6 6 6 5 5 5 5 4M Length of base of dcrsil.
14^14 14 14 14 14 14 133^ 143^ 16 11 12 12 11 12 Diameter of eye.
5^ 5>^ 5>4 5M 5>i 5 by^ 6 5>| 5 ^'A 4'4 5 ' 4^ 4>i Width of interorbital.
6 6 e 6 6 5K 514 by^ 6 6 ^M 4>$ 6 4M 4M Breadth of head at postei-ior end of maxillary.
.
i>}4 (,% 5% 5K 6% 4K 5 5 bX Breadth of beak at tip of upper jaw.
.
3K 3J4 3K zy^ 3K 1 3 3 3 Z% A BEVIEW OF THE AMEKICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS TEUTHIS.
BY SETH E. MEEK AND MARTIN L. HOFFMAN.
In the present paper is given the s^monymy of tlie American species of Teuthis L. (^= Acanthurus Forskalj witli an anal^'sis of their most important specific characters.
Specimens of eacli of three species, which seem to us valid, were obtained by Professor David S. Jordan, at Havana and at Key West.
On this material, belonging to the Indiana University and the United States National Museum, the present paper is based.
It is possible that other species exist in American waters, but there is certainly nothing in any published description which suggests the probability that such is the case.
We are indebted to Professor Jordan for use of his library and for valuable aid.
Analysis of American Species of Teuthis, a.
Outline rhomboid , the depth 1^ in length to base of caudal ; anterior profile subvertical, nearly straight, making an angle of about 60° with axis of body ; color brown, washed with bright blue ; body marked with undulating longitudinal light streaks ; no dark crossbars ; vertical fins with oblique bronze streaks ; lips and caudal spine yellow ; caudal deeply emarginate, its lobes about equal in length ; middle rays about f length of outer rays ; head 3 j in length to base of caudal.
D. lX-27 ; A. III-24.
cceruleus.
1 aa.
Outline ovate ; the depth 2 in length to base of caudal ; anterior profile moderatel}^ convex, making angle of about 45° with axis of body.
b. Caudal deeply emarginate, its upper lobe longer than lower, slender and produced into a filament, the inner rays | length of the outer rays (in the adult) ; margin of caudal fin whitish ; color dark brown, no transverse bars ; brown wavy longitudinal streaks on sides of body ; eight dark lines running parallel with edge of dorsal fin for its whole length, and separated by interspaces of the same width ; anal fin bluish, with a violet base ; head 3^ in length of body.
D. IX-24 ; A. III-22.
tractus.
2 66.
Caudal simply lunate, its inner rays about | length outer ra^'S ; caudal lobes subequal, the upper never filamentous ; color olive-brown, more or less distinctly greenish ; middle of sides paler; sides with about twelve distinct blaclvish vertical bars, ratlier narrower than the interspaces, most distinct over front of anal ; a brownish stripe along base of dorsal ; spinous dorsal with alternate stripes running upward and backward, of dark blue and bronze olive, the two colors of about equal width ; soft dorsal with a bluish streak on the anterior side of each ray, and a bronze stripe behind it ; head 3^ in length of body.
D, IX-26 ; A.
111-24. hepatus.
3.
1.
Teathis cceruleus.
Turdus rhomboidalts (The Tang), Catesby, Nat.
Hist.
Carolina, etc., ii, 1743, pi.
10, fig.
1 (Bahamas).
Teuthis fusca caruleo nitens Brown, Jamaica, 1756, 454 (Jamaica).
Barbero Parra, Descr.
Dif.
Piezas, Hist.
Nat,, 1787, 45, Taf.
21, fig.
2 (Cuba), Acanthurus cceruleus Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichthyoi., 1801, 214 (after Catesby, Parra & Brown) ; Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., X, 1835, 179 (Martinique ; Porto Rico ; San Domingo) ; Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., 1861, 336 (Caribbean Sea ; West Indies ; Bahia) ; Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 1868, 355 (Cuba) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 617, Acanthurus broussonnetii Desmarest, Prem, Dec, Ichthyoi., 1823, 26, pi.
4, fig.
2 (Cuba).
Acanthurus brevis Poey, Memorias, ii, 1860, 207 (Cuba ; young) ; Poey, Syn, Pise.
Cub,, 1868, 355 (Cuba) ; Poey, Enum.
Pise, Cub,, 1875, 66 (Cuba).
Acronurus cceruleatus Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 1875, 69 (Cuba ; larval form).
Acanthurus nigricans Goode, Bull.
U, S. Nat, Mus., 1876, 41 (Bermudas) (probably not of Linnaeus, a species of unknown oiigin, as yet unrecognized).
Habitat.
— Atlantic shores of tropical America; Cuba; Key West ; Martinique ; Porto Rico ; San Domingo ; Bahia, The synonymy and nomenclature of this beautiful species seem to be subject to no doubts of importance.
It is rather less abundant at Key West or at Havana than either of the Other species.
One specimen corresponding to A. brevis Poey, "Was taken at Key "West.
This is precisely like the adult, but shows very little blue.
The species called Acronurus are, as shown by Giinther and Liitken, the young of Teuthis.
The three species mentioned by Poey (cceruleatus, nigriculus, carneus) seem to be the young respectively of three species of Acanthurus.
One of these, Acronurus carneus, was obtained by Prof. Jordan ; we regard it as unquestionably the young of Teuthis hepatus.
2.
Teuthis tractus.
Acantkurr/s tracfusToej, Memorias, ii, 1860, 208 (Cuba) ; Poey, Rept., 186G, 356 (Cuba) ; Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 1868, 356 (Cuba) ; Poey, Anales Soc.
Hist.
Nat.
Madrid, 1880, 246 (Cuba) ; Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 1875, 67 (Cuba) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan ; no descrii tion) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Bu'l.
U. S. Fish Comm., 18S2, HI (Panama ; no description) ; Jordan& Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 377 (Panama ; no description) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 941.
Acronurus nigriculus Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 1875, 69 (Cuba ; larval form) .
Acanthurus mafoides Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 626 (Panama ; no description ; not of Cuvier & Valenciennes).
Habitat.
— Coasts of tropical America ; Cuba ; Panama.
Key West ; Mazatlan ; Panama.
This species may at all ages be known by the form of its caudal.
Although in all species the caudal lobes grow longer with age, still very young specimens, as well as old of this species have the caudal more deeply furcate than any of T. hepatus.
There are also some color differences between the two.
The single species of Teuthis found on the Pacific coast of tropical America seems to be identical with T. tractus.
It is close to A. matoides Cuvier & Yalenciennes, but Prof. Jordan, who has examined the type of the latter in Paris, thinks it different.
3.
Teuthis hepatus.
Hepatus mucrone reflexo utrinque prope caudam Gronow, Zoophyl, No.
353.
Teuthis hepatus Linnaeus, Syst.
Nat., ed.
12, 1766, 507 (not as restricted by Cuvier & Valenciennes ; is based principally on Hepatus of Gronow).
Acanthurus hepatus Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichthyol., 1801, 211 (in part; not of Cuv.
& Val.
and later authors).
Chaodon chirurgus Bloch, Ausl.
Fish., 1784, 99, sp.
n. 24, taf.
208 (on a drawing by Plumier) ; Gmelin, Syst.
Nat., 17S9, 1259 (copied).
Acanthiirus cJdrurgus Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichth., l':01, 214 (co; ied) ; Cavitr & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., x, 1835, 16S, (Martinique; Brazil; Cuba); Gimther, Cat.
Fish.
B:if.
Mus., iii, 1861, 329 (Bahia; Puerto Cabello ; Caribbean Sea ; West Indies) ; Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 1868, 355 (Cuba) ; Goode, Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1876, 42 (Bermudas) ; Poey, Anal.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., Madrid, 18:0, 245, pi.
6 (Cuba) ; Goode & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 237 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 617.
Acanthurus pJdebotomus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., x, 1835, 176 (Martinique ; Brazil ; Havana ; New York) ; Dekay, New York Fauna Fish, 1842, 139, pi.
73, fig.
234 (copied) ; Poey, Reportorio, 1867, i, 256 (Cuba) ; Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 1868, 245, fig.
7 (Cuba) ; Poey, Soc.
Hist.
Madrid, 18S0, 245 (Cuba).
Acronunis fuscus Gronow, Cat.
Fish., ed.
Gray, 1858, 191.
Acanthurus nigricans Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 941 (copied).
Habitat.
— Atlantic Coast of America.
Key West; Cuba; West Indies ; Puerto Cabello ; Martinique ; Caribbean Sea ; Brazil ; Bahia.
This is the most abundant species of the genus, being apparently common throughout the West Indies, and certainly so at Cuba and Key West, and ranging northward occasionally on our South Atlantic Coast, perhaps as far as Charleston, but certainly not to New York, where it is reported on the authority of the confused collection of Milbert, Two questions arise in the synon3'my of this species ; first, as to the identity of phlebotomus with chirurgus ; second, as to the availability of the Liuuiiean name hepatus and nigricans for it.
As to the first point, the description and figure of Cuvier and Valenciennes agree too well with our specimens for us to doubt their identity.
Poey recognizes a species, A. phlebotomus^ as distinct from A. chirurgus Poe}^ but .
on characters of slight importance and variable with age.
The Linnaean name nigricans has been used both for this species and for T. cseruleus.
The name is based on a deserii)tion of Artedi, which has been considered b}^ Cuvier and Valenciennes as probably belonging to an Asiatic species.
The locality of the original specimen is uncertain, and the species cannot be positivelj^ made out.
No American species should therefore be called nigricans.
The name hepatus has been used by Cuvier and Valenciennes for an Asiatic species.
The original Teidhis hepatus of Linnaeus is based on various references, including caeruleiis, chirvrgus and the Asiatic species in question.
Tiie original type is, however, evidently the Hepatus mucrone rejiexo iitrivqve prope < andam of Gronow, and part of the confusion has come from Gronow's attempt to identify with his specimen the Asiatic references of Yalentyn and others.
Gronow's specimen, however, is the type of his Hepatus, and consequently the proper type of Teuthis hepatus Linnseus.
This same specimen, Hepatus, became the Acronurus fuscus of Gronow's Systema (Gray), and it is still in the British Museum.
Giinther identifies it with Acanthurus chirurgus ; we do not, therefore, see how the substitution of hepatus for chirurgus is to be avoided, if the rules of nomenclature are strictly carried out.
The same line of argument is used by Cuvier and Valenciennes, but they erroneously supposed Gronow's specimen to be an Asiatic fish.
Poey has referred the Chsetodon chirurgus of Cuvier and Valenciennes to Acanthurus tractus, because of this expression in their description : "La caudale echancree en croissant jusqu'au tiers peu pres de sa longueur ; ses lobes sont arguises en pointe et le superieur est plus long que Tinferieur."
This does not indicate the tractus, which has the caudal still more deeply divided, and it is true of the average example of T. hepatus.
Acronurus carneas seems to be the young of this species.
A KEVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF SCOMBEROMORUS.
BY SETH E. MEEK AND ROBERT G. NEWLAND.
In the present paper we have given the synonymy of the four American species of the genus Scomberomorus Lacepede (= Cybrum Cuvier), and an analytical key, by which the species may be distinguished.
The specimens upon which the paper is based, belong to the Museum of the Indiana University.
The}^ have been collected by Professor Jordan at Key West, Havana, and Monterey.
We acknowledge our indebtedness to Professor Jordan for the use of his library and for valuable aid.
Analysis of the American Species of Scomberomorus.
a. Dorsal spines 11 or 18; lateral line descending obliquely; gill rakers comparatively long, more than half diameter of eye.
b.
Teeth slender, subcorneal, their length more than twice their width at base ; gill rakers long and slender, about f diameter of eye, about 18 below the angle; maxillary reaching to opposite posterior margin of eye.
Color of male dark steel-blue, without streaks or spots ; female with two rows of alternating round bronze spots of about the size of pupil; fins nearly plain, dark; head 5^ in length; depth 5|.
D. XVII-16-VIII ; A. I-IG-YIII.
concolor.
1. bb.
Teeth large, triangular, compressed, their length not twice their breadth at base ; gill rakers rather slender, their length about f diameter of eye; about 12 below the angle.
c. Color bluish silvery above, with bright reflections ; sides in both sexes, with numerous bronze spots about as large as pupil, no longitudinal stripes ; maxillary reaching to opposite posterior part of orbit; angle of preopercle not produced backwards ; pectoral scaly at base only ; caudal peduncle rather robust, its least depth 4§ in head, caudal widely forked ; head 4| in length ; depth 5^.
D. XVIII-18-IX ; A. II-U-VIII.
maculatus.
2. cc.
Color silvery ; sides with a brownish, broken, longitudinal band, above and below which are numerous brownish spots ; angle of preopercle produced backwards ; pectorals scaly ; anterior part of spinous dorsal black ; caudal peduncle rather slender, its least depth 5 ^ in head; caudal less widely forked ; head 4^ in length; depth 5i.
D. XVIII-15-YIII ; A. II-15-VIII.
regalis.
3 aa.
Dorsal spines 14 or 15, lateral line descending abruptly under second dorsal ; teeth comparatively large ; gill rakers very short, less than ^ diameter of eye, about 8 below the angle ; pectorals scaly at base only ; young, with bronze spots ; adult immaculate.
cavalla.
4.
1.
Scomberomorus ooncolor.
Monterey Mackerel.
Ohriomitra concolor Lockington, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1879, 134 (Monterey) ; Lockington, Rep. Cal.
Fish Comm.
(1878-9), 1881, 34 (Monterey).
Scomberomorus concolor Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 4o6 (Monterey, no description) ; Jordan and Joiiy, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 4, 1881, 13 (Soquel, Cal., no description) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 45 (Monterey Bay) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 426.
Habitat.
— Pacific Coast of United States ; Monterey Bay, all the known specimens having been taken about Soquel and Santa Cruz, whither it resorts every summer for a short time, for the purpose of spawning.
Some 15 to 40 specimens only are taken each year.
2.
Scomberomorus maculatus.
Spanish Mackerel.
Scomber maculatus Mitchill, Trans.
L(it.
and Phil.
Soc, i, 1815, 426, pi.
6, f. 8 (New York).
Cybium maculatum Cuvier, Reg, Anim., ed.
2, 1829 (after Mitchill) ; Agassiz, Spix.
Pise.
Brazil, 1829, p. 103, tab.
60 (Atlantic) ; Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., viii, 1831, 181 (New York) ; Stoier, Bost.
Jour., iv, 1842, 179 (Lynn, Mass.)
; Ayres, Bost.
Jour.
Nat.
Hist., iv, 1842, 261 (Brookhaven) ; De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Fsh, 1842, 103, pi.
73, f. 232 (Long Island) ; Storer, Synopsis, 1846, 92; Baird, Fish N. J.
Coast, Itr'SS, 21 (Beaseleys Point) ; Gunher, Cat.
Fish.
Biit.
Mus., ii, 1860, 372; Stonr, Hist.
Fish.
Mass., 1867, 68, pi.
13, f. 1 (Lynn, Mass.
; Proviucetown) ; Gill, Rept.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1871-72, 802 (name only) ; Baird, Rept.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1871-72, 825 (Wqod's Holl), no description; Gill, Cat.
Fish.
E. X6 234 Coast N. A., 1873, 24 (name only) ; Poey, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1878, 4 (after Cuvier and Valenciennes) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1878, 375 (Alb^rmarle Sound) ; Goode, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 3 (East, Florida), no descript on ; Goode and Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 128 (Pensacola) ; Goode and Bean, Fish.
Essex Co., Mass., 1879, 15 (no description) ; Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 89 (Washington Market), no description.
Scomberomorus maculatus Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 106 (Mazatlan, no description) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 110 (Panama, no description) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1883, 426 ; Goode and Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 237 (Gulf of Mexico, no description) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 268 (Pensacola, no description) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 594 (Charleston, no description) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 625 (Panama, no description) ; Bean, Cat Fish.
Exhibition, London, 1883, 51 (Charlotte Harbor, Fla., no description).
Habitat.
— Both coasts of America ; from Lj^nn, Mass., to KeyWest ; Mazatlan ; Panama.
Not recorded from Cuba or any of the lesser Antilles.
3.
Scomberomorus regalis.
Pintado.
Scomber regalis Bloch, Ausl.
Fische, 1795, Taf.
335 (after a drawing by Plumier) ; Bloch and Schneider, Systema.
Nat., 1801, 22 (after Bloch).
Gybium regale Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed.
ii, 1829 (name only ; after Bloch) ; Cuvier ar.d Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., viii, 1831, 184 (San Domingo) ; Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., ii, 1868, 326 (Cuba) ; Gill, Kept.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1871-72, 802 .
(name only) ; Baird, Kept.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1871-72, 825 (Wood's Holl ; no description) ; Gill, Cat.
Fish East Coast N. A., 1873, 24 (name only) ; Poey, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1878, 4 (Cuba) ; Goode, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 3 (East Florida, no description).
Scomheromorns regahs Goode and Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 237 ; Jordan and Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 1882, 426.
Scomberomorus plumieri, Lacepede, iii, 1801, 292 (after Aubriet's copy of Plumier's drawing).
Gybium aeer^-ira Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., viii, 1831, 186 (in part; type); Poey, Rcpertorio, i, 1867, 322; ii, 13 (Cuba); Poey, Proc.
U S Nat.
Mus., 1878, 4 (no description).
Habitat.
— Atlantic Coast of America; Wood's Holl, Mass.
; Key West ; Cuba ; San Domingo.
More abundant southward ; rare north of Key West.
4.
Soomberomoras oavalla.
Guarapucu Marcgrave, Hist.
Brasil.
1648, 178 (Brazil).
Cyhium cavalla Cuvier, Regne Animal, 1829, ed, 2d (after Marcgrave).
Cybium caballa Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., viii, 1831, 187 (Brazil I ; Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., 1860, 373 (San Domingo); Poey, Report, i, 1867, 323; ii, 13 (Cuba); Guichenot, Sagra, Hist.
Cuba Poiss., 1850, 103 (Cuba); Poey, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 3 (East Florida; no description); Poey, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm.. 1882, 118 (no description).
Scomberomorus caballa Goode & Bean, Proc, TJ.
S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 237 (no description); Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 268 (Pensacola); Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 549 (Charleston; no description); Jordan and Gilbert, Syn.
Fish., 1883, 437 (copied).
Habitat.
— Atlantic Coast of America ; Charleston ; Brazil.
A food fish of great importance in the West Indies and Southern Florida.
It reaches a much larger size than any other.
The name cavalla, first used by Cuvier, has priority over caballa.
October t. Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Twenty-three persons present.
A paper entitled " The Geology of Delaware — Laurentian, Palaeozoic and Cretaceous Areas," by Frederick D. Chester, was presented for publication.
The death of Geo.
Bentham, a correspondent, was announced.
October 14.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-five persons present.
The death of Charles W. Poultney, a member, was announced.
The following were ordered to be printed : — PRELIMINAKY NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF DELAWARE— LAURENTI AN, PAL2:0Z0IC AND CRETACEOUS AREAS.
by frederick d. chester.
Introduction.
During the years 1837 and 1838, Professor James C. Booth, in accordance with an act of the State Legislature, made a geological surA'^ey of Delaware, the results of which were published in a report that appeared in 1841.
This old memoir is of great value, both from the accuracy of the author's observations and his minute attention to detail ; I cannot, therefore, expect to supplant it, my aim being an entirely different one, i. e., to so completely reconstruct our geology as to bring it into sympathy with the results of adjacent States.
Professor Booth's great and only fault as a geologist lay in his entire indifference to stratigraphical order ; and his classification of deposits according to mineralogical and physical characters, leaves one in utter confusion.
My main object, therefore, is to endeavor to undo the tangles which Professor Booth has unconsciously made, by stating the facts in the briefest and clearest manner possible.
The results, as embodied in the following paper, are preliminary to what is hoped will be a full report upon the State.
Geological Outline.
The formations represented within the bounds of the State are Laurentian (?
), Cambro-Silurian, Silurian-Devonian (?
), Cretaceous, Tertiary and Quarternary.
The relations and positions of the several divisions of the chronological scale can be best represented by the accompanying table (I), also the thickness of each formation.
Column 2, with which the Delaware series is compared, is constructed according to what seem the best results, combining home and foreign equivalents.
The accompanying map (PL V) is drawn upon a scale of four miles to the inch, and is sufficiently large to show all necessary details.
A word is here necessary in regard to the boundaries as shown by the map.
The lenticular areas which indicate the magnesian marble, can only serve to represent the position of outcrops.
Owing to the fact that these calcareous deposits are entirely covered by the micaceous rocks, surface indications offer no means of determining the entire area covered by the former.
238 I.
[1884.
Pebiods.
General Series.
Delaware Series.
QUAKTERNARY.
Modem Post-Glacial.
^ Glacial. )
Bog Clay or Alluvium.
Delaware Gravels and Estuary Sands— 10-40'.
Tertiary.
Pliocene.
.
.
< Miocene.
.
.
.
Eocene.
Blue Clay— 3-10'.
Glass Sand.— 40'.
White, Potters' Clay— 10-20'.
Upper.
Middle.
Lower.
(Wealden.)
Middle Marl— 139'.
Indurated Marl— 149'.
Cretaceous.
Lower Marl Bed— 60'.
Sand Marl— 90'.
Plastic Clays— 250'.
Mica Schists and Gneisses.
Cambro-Silurian.
Calciferous.
Potsdam.
Magnesian Marbles.
Quartzite.
Laurentian (?)
Laurentian (?)
Syenitic Rocks.
Owing also to the fewness of the outcrops of the several divisions of the Cretaceous, the boundaries had to be drawn from such data as were accessible, which were in some cases abundant, and in others entirely absent.
Sufficient is known, however, to make the writer confident of their general accuracy ; while the missing links of knowledge could only be supplied by expensive borings.
The Laurentian.
— To this belongs the belt of hornblendic rocks above the line of the Pennsjdvania R. R., which to the west is narrow but which, rapidly bi-oadens to the east, as it extends into Delaware county, Pa., and contracting again to a narrow neck at Chester Creek, there connects with another irregular area occupying all the northwestern portion of Delaware county.
This area connects with still another to the north, and to the east of West Chester.
This rock is a dark hornblendic gneiss or amphibolite schist, dipping usually to the northwest, rarely in the opposite direction.
With it is associated a grayish to bluish gray rock, usually finely crystalline, which has been designated as diorite and syenitic granite by the Pennsylvania geologists.
Owing to the absence of petrographical facts concerning this rock, however, nothing definite can be said concerning it.
It shades by indistinct degrees into the amphibolite schists, the two varieties probably forming the same eruptive series.
The Gambro-Silurian.
— This formation, so largely developed through the counties of southeastern Pennsylvania, has one area in the northwestern part of Delaware, and two smaller exposures.
In the northwestern area, a coarse quartzitic rock is found to underlie a highly crystalline magnesian marble.
These, as we shall more clearly perceive further on, must be referred respectively to the Potsdam and Calciferous, the latter of which is equivalent to the Lower Magnesian limestone of the West.
The Mica Schists and Gneisses.
— To the north of the belt of Laurentian gneisses, and resting upon the latter, is a series of mica schists and granitic gneisses, with which are associated bedded granites, serpentine, and hornblende rocks.
They have commonly been referred to the Mont-Alban, which, together with the older hornblendic rocks, were called Azoic, the two forming a part of the southern gneiss area as known by the Pennsylvania geologists.
It will be my aim, shortly, to show that the hornblendic rocks and mica schists do not make two successive formations, within the Azoic, but that, while the former is either Laurentian or Huronian, the latter must be placed above the Trenton, and possibly above the Hudson River, slates.
Their exact position in the Palaeozoic scale, however, will probably never be determined, owing to the complete absence of fossiliferous remains, due to the extreme metamorphism.
The rocks have been subjected to great contortion, the strata having been pressed either into close folds, or into broad or contracted anticlinal or synclinal flexures.
The Cretaceous.
— Resting upon the eroded edge of the Azoic rocks are successive series of plastic clays, sand marls and greensand, which foi'in quite uniform strata, dipping at a low angle to the southeast.
This belt, having a width of 18 miles, extends from the hills to the latitude of Noxontown mill pond, just south of Middletown.
The Tertiary.
— The Cretaceous is succeeded by a stratum of white or lead-colored clay, having a thickness of 10 to 20 feet.
This continues as far south as Murderkill Creek, and from fossiliferous evidence, must be referred to the Miocene.
South of Murderkill Creek, the Miocene is succeeded by 3 to 10 feet of light or dark blue clay, beneath which is a uniform stratum of fine glass sand, of at least 40 feet in thickness.
That, all the State south of Murderkill is later Pliocene, I shall endeavor to prove in a future paper upon the younger formation.
All the beds of the Tertiary lie in a nearly horizontal position, dipping at a still lower angle than the Cretaceous, and probably unconformable to the same.
The Quarternary.
— Covering most of the foregoing formations, and reaching up the flanks of the Azoic hills to the height of 200 feet or more above tide, is a layer of sand and gravel, which to the north is of a coarse, red nature, and to the south is fine and white.
They are called the Delaware Gravels and Estuary Sands, respectively.
Along the river and bay shores is also the belt of bog-clay, which is modern, and of more recent origin than the gravels.
Also upon the summits of the highest hills in the State are solitary patches of gravel which are evidently older than the continuous stratum to the south.
This high-level gravel, in the absence of proper data, has been problematically referred to the Tertiary, and is known as Bryn Mawr gravel.
The Crystalline Rocks.
Geographical Position.
— Generally speaking, the southern line of the Azoic rocks is the limit of the highlands, but in certain places they extend well into more level regions.
Beginning with a point upon the Mar3^1and boundar}^, a little north of where the latter is cut by the Mason and Dixon line, the limit of the rocks runs in a northeast direction, cutting through the western end of Newark, and following the northern boundary of the town.
Thence it runs close to the south shore of White Clay Creek to a distance of two miles beyond Roseville, where it makes an abrupt bend to the north, until at Stanton the rocks cease to be found.
A mile back of the railroad station, they again appear, continuing to a point about a mile back of Newport, where their course turns slightly to the southeast, crossing the Wilmington turnpike just before it is intersected by the Wilmington Northern R. R., thence it follows the turnpike through the southern half of the city, keeping just north of the Pennsylvania R. R., to a point south of Bellevue, where the line cuts the river.
From there the Delaware River marks the southenj boundary.
The area as above indicated may be divided into two pretty distinct belts : (1 ) the southern belt of hornblendic rocks, and (2) the northern belt of micaceous rocks, with which are associated interstratified beds of coarse-grained orthoclase granite, feldspar, quartz and quartzite.
The boundary line between these two belts can be traced very accurately, and is found to correspond pretty closely with the lines of strike.
Beginning with the western boundary of the State, the line follows approximately the coui'se previously traced out, but one-half a mile to the north of the same.
It continues thus to a point south of Milltown, when an abrupt turn to the northeast is taken, the line crossing the Brandj^wine only a few miles from the head of the State.
It is owing to the northerly course of this line, as compared with the southern limit of the Azoic area, that the northeastern portion of the State is covered more largely with the hornblende, and the' northwestern with the micaceous rocks.
The Lithology of the Crystalline Rocks.
The rocks which cover the crystalline area may be classed as follows : — ( Granite, Micaceous < Granitic gneiss, l Mica schist.
Amphibolite schist.
Hornblendic \ T^^ ^ Blue to gray trap.
/ Marble, Calcareous < r, , • i i t [ baccharoidal limestone.
Serpentine.
Quartzite.
Vitreous quartz.
Granite.
— This rock, as known in the State, is divided into two clashes: (1) that which forms intrusive beds, being a coarsely crystalline orthoclase granite, and (2) that which is nothing more than a highly metamorphosed granitic gneiss, or mica schist, it being a very compact, fine-grained rock.
The former variety may be described as an intimate mixture of flesh-colored orthoclase, quartz and muscovite mica, with which are often associated albite and biotite.
It occurs as veins, usually bedded, which vary in width from 6 inches to 25 feet, and which, though often continuing in length for several miles, are known to pinch out entirely.
The great difference in lithological character between the enclosing rocks and these beds would imply that the latter are veins of plastic injection from aqueo-igneous fusion.
That the intrusion of the semi-molten magma was subsequent to the uplifting and crystallizing of the enclosing rocks, is proven by the fact that the latter have, in the vicinity of such veins, suffered considerable disturbance and undue metamorphism at the planes of contact with the intruded mass.
The granite is often so highly feldspathic as to be worked exclusively for this mineral, and when the upper portions of such veins are greatly decomposed, diggings have in a few cases been made for kaolin.
One of the most noticeable of these veins of coarse granite is found to cut across the road leading up the Brandywine, about one and a half miles from the head of the State.
A large quarry has been opened in this vicinity, where the rock has been worked for feldspar.
The vein is not less than 20 feet wide, on the one side of which is a highly metamorphosed mica schist, and on the other hornblendic gneiss.
The rock is a mixture of red orthoclase, albite, blue quartz, and muscovite, the crystals being sometimes so large that perfect specimens of feldspar several i inches square, can be obtained.
Large hexagonal plates of mica, many of them 6 inches across, are also found in abundance.
The same feldspar is worked three miles to the northeast, probably from the same vein, as near as could be determined ; while in the other direction the intrusive mass seems to lose itself.
Another equally wide vein cuts across the Newark and Avondale R. R., at Tweed's mill, two miles north of Newark.
A faulting plane cuts through this intrusive bed, possibly due to its disturbing action.
The same rock is found to continue two miles and a half to the northeast, outcropping upon the run to the south of Pleasant Hill P. 0.
Many other instances of granite veins might be cited, but with nothing new regarding them.
All of the large veins mentioned above are exclusive of the smaller seams, which vary in width from a few inches to a foot, and which are liable to be found anywhere, and frequently, within the micaceous belt.
The second class of granite — a highly changed gneiss or schist — is a fine-grained rock containing quartz, plagioclase and biotite, with the quartz subject to considerable variation.
It occurs as massive beds, the planes of the stratification being so completely obliterated that the rock resembles a true trap.
That it is not trappean, however, is shown by the fact that it is seen to run, by indistinct degrees, into mica schist.
Such rocks ai'e usually much broken up, thus testifying to an undue mechanical activity, itself the cause of the extreme metamorphism.
Granitic Gneiss and Mica Schist.
— These two species represent the extremes of variation in what is the characteristic rock of the micaceous belt, which has gone by the generally applicable name of gneiss.
These two rocks so merge into each other that specific designation is often difficult.
The typical mica schist may be described as a very schistose biotite rock, usually highly garnetiferous, and containing a variable proportion of quartz.
Sometimes this highly micaceous rock contains a very small proportion of feldspar, which can often only be seen as a kaoline substance in the decomposed product ; and if the absence of feldspar be characteristic of mica schist, then with the presence of feldspar the true schists begin to run into gneiss.
Hornblende Bocks.
— The hornblende rocks, as a class, may be divided into the basic and acidic, or into those rocks of which the predominating constituent is either hornblende or feldspar.
To the former belong the dark varieties of amphibolite schist and syenitic gneiss, and to the latter belongs the light, highly acidic bluish gray trap so characteristic of the northeastern part of the State.
Between these two extremes there is every shade of gradation, showing some petrographical relation between them.
The dark varieties of amphibolite schist vary in color from a blue to a dull black, from coarsely crystalline to compact.
The predominating element is hornblende, with which is associated a small proportion of plagioclase, and sometimes blue quartz.
This rock, which shows a more or less eminent lamination, is found to merge into a massive rock of the same composition.
When the proportion of hornblende increases, it becomes so great as to make up, apparently, the entire composition, in which case the syenitic gneiss runs into the hornblende schist or into massive hornblende rock.
The bluish gray trap may be described as follows : in color it A^aries from a light to a dark bluish gray ; in texture, from a coarsely crystalline to one fine-grained, homogeneous and trappean in character.
Lithologically, the rock is composed of plagioclase, feldspar and hornblende, with frequently a small proportion of blue quartz and biotite.
Massive hypersthene has often been found in fine orthorhombic crystals, entirely replacing the hornblende, and is associated with a plagioclase showing the most eminent striation.
Thus, from microscopical examination, the rock seems to range from a quartz diorite to a true hyperite^ although no true knowledge of the rock can be had until a thorough microscopical stud}^ is made.
Professor G. H. Williams,^ of Johns Hopkins University, has proven a similar rock, in the vicinity of Baltimore, to be a hypersthene gra66ro, which also runs by indistinct stages into a true amphiholite schist.
He has also shown that the amphibolite is the result of a paragenesis taking place in the gabbro, the hypersthene and pyroxene found in the latter being altered to hornblende, and thus producing the gradual passage of gabbro into amphibolite.
Whether some such alteration as this can account for the passage of the bluish gray trap into amphibolite schist is quite within the range of possibility.
This question has already become a subject of iuA^estigation by the writer, and it is hoped that much light will be thrown upon it.
Calcareous Bocks.
— To this class belong those rocks generally called crystalline limestone, of which there are two varieties, namely, saccharoidal limestone and marble.
They are found at three known localities, one near Pleasant Hill, one at Hockessin and another near CenJ^eville, both varieties occurring together.
The marble may be described as very coarsely crystalline.
It is very compact in texture, of superior hardness, and is always heavily and closely bedded.
The variet}" called saccharoidal limestone is more granular and extremely friable.
It is also ^ Am.
Jour, of Sci., October, 1884, and Johns Hopkins Univ.
Circular, April, 1884. less pure, being often colored by oxide of iron or organic matter, and is much more thinly bedded, the thinner seams being interstratified with the heavily bedded marble.
Scrientine.
— About six miles northeast of Wilmington a huge dike of serpentine runs with the micaceous schists.
Its length can be traced by outcropping boulders for a distance of a mile, with a width of a quarter of a mile.
The rock varies from one tough and massive to one soft and highly decomposed, with which are associated talc and magnesite.
Vitreous Quartz and Quartzite.
— The former rock occurs as regular thin or massive seams interstratified with the micaceous rocks.
It varies from a glassy colorless variety to one of milky and opaque whiteness.
The quartzite, which is found in the northwest corner of the State, underlying the limestone, is probably of Potsdam age.
It is a very coarse quartzite rock, which contains, frequently, crystals of tourmaline, Jibrolite and actinolite.
Structural Relations of the Crystalline Rocks.
Strike and Dip.
— The rocks of this formation, except in a very few cases, are all stratified with variations of bedding, from that as thin as slate in the mica schists to that so heavy as to resemble massive trap intrusions.
Both strike and dip are subject to great variation.
A dip to the southeast for a long distance, with an opposite dip along a section only two miles and a half to the northeast, can be accounted for only by supposing an unequal thrust from the direction of the contorting force.
In fact, out of five different sections made across the Azoic belt at various points of its length, no two showed the same arrangement of strata — from which we conclude that the thrusting force must have acted very unequally along the entire length of the belt, sometimes merely tilting the strata ; again, standing them on edge, and j-et again, completely overturning them ; in some places pressing them into close folds for a part or the entire length of the section, in others leaving gentle or abrupt anticlinal and synclinal folds.
Both strike and dip are also found to be subject to variations from the disturbing action of granitic intrusions.
At Dixon's spar quarry the change is from N. 55° E. to N. 22° E. At Pleasant Hill a granitic rein cuts through the limestone, which causes a disturbance from N. 55° E. to N. 10° E. Excluding cases of local distortion, however, the crystalline rocks range in strike between N. 45° E. to N. 60° E., and in dip from nearly vertical to nearly horizontal.
Dikes.
— We have already spoken of the granite and serpentine as intrusive, forming in certain cases true beds, and again, showing genuine vein structure with numerous branchings.
Regarding the structural relations of the bluish gray trap, there are as yet some doubts.
The geologists of the Second Pennsylvania Survey have spoken of it as forming massive trap intrusions between hornblende gneiss — of which the latter is metamorphic.
This theory, I am inclined to think, will prove to be a mistaken one.
In Delaware, as we have said, the gray acided rock runs by indistinct gradations into true araphibolite schist, the many stages of variations being sometimes witnessed in a single quarry, without the slightest structural distinctions.
Seams of the gray trap have been seen running through the black hornblende gneiss, but without the least signs of intrusion.
That the bluish gray trap may occupy irregular patches more or less lenticular, is no doubt true, but the latter can in no sense be regarded as forming dikes between a metamorphic schist ; on the other hand, all the rocks of the hornblendic belt, from the most acidic gray trap to the true amphibolite schist, belong to a single series of eruptive rocks, having wide lithological variations.
That these variations may be the result of a subsequent paramorphosis taking place in the bluish gray trap is quite possible ; it is therefore to be hoped that present petrographical studies of the hornblendic rocks of the State will throw more light on this important question.
Contortion of Strata.
— The crystalline rocks offer the most complicated and striking examples of contortion, presenting nothing, however, which is not characteristic of all metamorphic areas.
Close folding is the form generally seen, the line of bedding being either straight, gently or violently contorted.
Abrupt anticlinal and synclinal folding is also common, these complex folds being, however, very irregular and much twisted.
Age and Stratigraphical Order.
— ^^The crystalline rocks may be divided into four groups, which have a fixed stratigraphical relation to each other, namely, the hornblendic, the micaceous, the calcareous and the quartzitic.
The normal order of arrangement of these strata, and thereby their relative age, is a point upon which there has been mnch difference of opinion, owing to the confusing arrangement of the strata throughout some of the counties of southeastern Pennsylvania.
Notwithstanding such difficulties, the geologists who have discaided broad generalizations, and devoted themselves to the study of local details, find the way gradually opening to a better understanding of the truth ; and the early presumption that the mica schists and gneisses are of Paleozoic age, is rapidly becoming a matter of general acceptation.
The latest results of geological study in Pennsylvania, together with the observations of the writer throughout Northern Delaware, tend to show quite conclusively that the crystalline rocks represent the following ages : (1) The Laurentian (?)
including the rocks of the hornblendic belt ; (2) the Potsdam, to which the quartzitic and sand rocks belong; (3) the Calciferous, including the magnesian marbles, and (4) the age of the mica schists, which must be placed somewhere above the Trenton, and, according to Mr. Charles E. Hall, above the Hudson River, slates.
With these points in view, we shall proceed with the demonstration.
The Laui'entian (?)
— The so-called Laurentian area of Delaware is but a continuation of identical areas in southeastern Pennsylvania, within the Philadelphia belt, which, according to Mr. Hall, are three in number, each connected with the other by a narrow neck, and each situated successively to the northeast.
The southernmost of these areas is of lenticular shape, reaching from Chester Creek, and spreading out over the southern part of Delaware County, whence it extends into the State of Delaware, as shown upon the map.
Northeast of this patch, and to the northwest of Media, is another area of irregular form, while a third — a long east and west belt — runs from West Chester, south of Conshohocken, eastward to the Delaware River, near Trenton.
Thus the Delaware Laurentian forms the southernmost tongue of the one Laurentian area of the Philadelphia belt, the upper portion of which has been for a long time known as the Third Belt of Rogers.
As regards the age of the Third Belt, Mr. Hall says, " The rocks of the Third Belt are identical with the granitoid and syenitic rocks of the Welsh Mountain, north of the Chester County limestone valley.
These rocks of the Welsh Mountain are similar in all respects to the crystalline rocks extending into Pennsylvania from New Jersey.
In New Jersey they are identified as belonging to the Laurentian."
With these points in view, I have followed Mr. Hall, and placed the syenitic rocks of Delaware in the Laurentian, although I feel that it is, at best, but a problematical designation.
Any positive declaration upon this point would be premature, until a more thorough structural and petrographical study has been finished, together with a comparison of results from diverse localities.
Throughout southeastern Pennsj^lvania the hornblendic rocks are always stratigraphicall}'the lowest, and such is the case in northern Delaware.
The general dip of the syenitic rocks, upon the flanks of which rest the strata of the micaceous belt, is, in the latter locality, to the northwest.
In the western part of the State, however, the hornblendic rocks have experienced an overthrow, whereby they dip to the southeast, in which case the hornblendic rocks are apparently the younger.
This peculiarity need not, however, be misleading as to true stratigraphical order.
Putting aside all questions of position of strata, one must note the decidedly primitive aspect of these rocks, which, in lithological characters, are identical with the rocks of more northern portions of the Laurentian area.
The Potsdam.
— In the northwestern part of Mill Creek Hundred, a triangular area of Potsdam sandstone is seen upon the map, which, rising from beneath a patch of Brj^n Mawr gravel, extends into Pennsjdvania, and is best exposed beyond the State line.
At Kivin's limestone quarry, a mass of quartzite forms what is clearly an anticlinal fold, over which is a corresponding anticlinal of magnesian limestone.
The anticlinal structure of the quartzite is further shown at a few other points, where dips both to the northwest and southeast are noted.
The Galciferous — Mr. Hall divided the limestone of southeastern Pennsylvania into two groups, namely, the Galciferous magnesia limestones and marbles, and the possible Trenton limestones and slates, the former comprising the rocks of the Chester County limestone valley, and several outlying troughs to the south, the latter those alternations of slate and limestone which form the outer border of the Calciferous belt.
The limestone areas of Delaware belong to the lower of the above groups, or to the Calciferous of Mr. Hall, the equivalent of the Lower Magnesian limestone of the West.
The magnesian marble which outcrops beyond the State line, at Nivin's, runs into Delaware, and appears at the surface in the Jackson quarry at Hockessin.
Here the rock forms a clearly defined anticlinal fold.
The bending, both to the northwest and southeast, being observed within the cutting.
The limestone is overlaid by the mica schists which, to the north of the pit, dip to the northwest, and to the south, southeast, forming an anticlinal fold capping the limestone.
To the southeast of Centreville, the limestone occupies the same stratigraphical position as in the case just mentioned.
At Pleasant Hill the bending of the schists over a saddle of limestone is beautifully shown in the quarry cutting, furnishing clear proof as to the superior position of the mica schists.
The Mica Schist and Gneiss.
— The inference that these rocks were primal, was based largely upon their lithological similarity to many of the older crystalline schists.
They were hence referred to the White Mountain, or the Rocky Mountain, series.
But lithological similarities must invariably bend to higher statigraphical evidence.
In Delaware the micaceous rocks overlie the limestone, and no readjustment of position can make the arrangement otherwise.
They are, therefore, younger than the limestone, which, in its turn, is younger than the underlying Potsdam.
The Calciferous limestone can hardly be referred to any other position, and, invariably underlying the schists, the latter must begin somewhere in the Silurian, and, possibly, mount as high up as the Devonian.
The Cretaceous.
Geographical Extent.
— The Cretaceous of Delaware, a continuation of the same formation as developed in New Jersey, extends across the State as a northeast and southwest belt, with a breadth of 18, and a length of from 15 to 20 miles, covering a total area of about 250 square miles.
The northern limit of the belt, laid down on the map, has already been traced out as marking the southern boundary of the Laurentian.
The southern limit runs a little to the south of, and parallel with, Appoquinimink Creek, cutting through the centre of Noxontown mill-pond, and thence proceeds in a straight southeasterly direction.
Subdivisions.
— The formation may be divided into a number ot subdivisions, based upon lithological grounds, the period ot sedimentation extending through the whole Cretaceous ; i. e., 17 250 [1884.
Lower, Middle and Upper, of the English geologists.
The divisions can be best represented by the following table, which is also n. TJppEK Cretaceous (Chalk).
Middle Marl Bed.
Yellow Sand.
Shell Layer."
Pure Green Sand.
Indurated Marl Bed.
.
.
.
Middle Cretaceous (Upper Green Sand,Gaiilt).
Lower Cretaceous (Wealden?).
Lower Marl Bed, Indurated Marl.
Red Sand.
Black Argillo-Micaceous Marl, Shell Marl, Cretoidal Marl.
Sand Marl, Plastic Clays.
Sand and Clay Marls.
Red Clay.
Fire-Clays and Sands.
constructed with a view of showing the relative thickness of each of the groups.
In the classification the plastic clays have been placed in the Lower Cretaceous, and are probably the exact equivalent of the Wealden, while the marl deposits, ranging from the Lower to the Middle Beds, can, upon palseontological grounds, be referred with considerable confidence to the Upper Cretaceous, or Chalk.
The Sand Marl formation can at best be placed in but an intermediate position, but is probably nearly akin to the marls, all of the .
fossils ever found within the sand marls of New Jersey having been the characteristic species of the marl beds proper.
Structure.
— The different subdivisions of the Cretaceous foi-m uniform beds, dipping at a low angle to the southeast.
Having been successively deposited upon a gently sloping bed, they have remained in the same position, with no subsequent disturbance.
The general direction of strike can be seen from the trend of the various belts.
A line joining the point of contact between the Cretaceous, at Newark, with a similar point back of Newport, upon nearly the same level, ran N. 72° E., which course, being approximately parallel with the lines of the lower belts, may fairly represent the strike of the formation.
The dip was determined with great accuracy at Summit Bridge, about midway of the width of the Cretaceous.
At this place the canal excavation has reached a depth of 10 feet, and continues several miles to the westward, with gradually lowering banks.
Upon both sides of this wide cutting, the marl outcrops as a welldefined laji-er, and as any number of lines in the direction of the dip can be obtained, the amount of pitch can be accurately determined.
As the transit could always be placed upon either bank in front of the escarpment of marl, and the other side could be easily seen, the operation of determining the difference in level between the two outcrops, on a line running S. 30° E., was not difficult.
This difference in level, combined with the angle of depression, as determined by the vernier, would give the data for ascertaining the distance between the outcrops, the latter of which varied from 300 to 400 feet.
The results of the observations give a dip of 45 feet to the mile.
Plastic Clays.
This formation is the thickest member of the Cretaceous.
Its southern line begins a few miles south of New Castle, and extends in a southeasterly direction to just below Red Lion, crossing the railroad between Porter's and Kirkwood, and cutting the State line two miles north of Chesapeake Cit3\ Although of so much importance, it is, owing to the great thickness of the overlying gravels, rarely exposed, and even when more favorable opportunities are offered, but a few feet of the characteristic Red Clay appear above the surface.
The formation is divided into the uppermost Red Clays, and the lowermost White Clays, of which the former is the deposit commonly exposed.
Red Clay.
— This is a highly plastic clay, of a vermilion-red color, remarkably free from grit, and cutting with great smoothness.
It is identical with the red terra-cotta clays of Perth Amboy, N. J., and may prove to be their equal in quality.
The Red Clay forms uniform beds, with which are sometimes interstratified thin seams of fire-clay, making a total thickness of at least .50 feet.
White Clays.
— The series of white clays and sands lying beneath the stratum of red, reach to a great depth below the surface, and have not yet been wholly penetrated by the deepest boring made.
The outcrop is upon the lowest ground, of which the only locality discovered lay a little to the south of New Castle, on the river shore.
Here the white clay outcrops for a depth of from 10 to 15 feet, giving the following section : 1.
Sandy fire-clay, .
.
.3 feet.
2.
Mottled clay, .... 3 feet.
3.
A very pure fat fire-clay at water-level.
The lowermost clay of this section is of an unusually fine quality, and has in past years been worked below water-level, and shipped to Trenton potteries.
From this exposure we are enabled to see that the White Clay series, outcropping as it does at water-level, covered by a red stratum, and again by some 30 feet of gravel, is entirely out of the reach of study ; yet the presumption that it does lie deeply buried is beyond controvers3\ Our only means of studying the White Clay series is by means of borings, which are very rare, and in no cases have accurate records of the deposits passed through been preserved.
We only know that the borings yielded alternate layers of white clays and sands to a depth of 200 feet.
We therefore judge that this series presents strong analogies to the white clays of New Jersey.
1884.]
natural sciences op philadelphia.
253 Sand Marl.
The belt of sand marl runs from the river course to the south of New Castle, gradually tapering in breadth as the Maryland boundary line is reached.
The southern limit of the belt, starting at Delaware City, cuts the north corner of St. George's, and keeps about a mile above the canal for the remaining distance across the State.
It may be described as a j^ellow sand, of a greenish tinge, comprising a yellow siliceous sand mixed with some green sand and a variable proportion of argillaceous matter.
No data are at hand for determining its thickness, except the imperfect method of using width of outcrop and angle of dip, according to which we find the sand marl stratum to have a depth of 90 feet.
Marl Beds.
The marl beds cover a comparatively small area in the State, and are practically limited to that division of New Castle county called St. George's Hundred.
The first important outcrops of green sand occur along the Delaware and Chesapeake Canal, the channel of which cuts deep into the formation.
Its northern limit, as determined by old marl pits, runs approximately parallel with the canal, keeping a distance of from a quarter of a mile to a mile.
From this line the marl extends southward to another boundary parallel with, and about one mile south of, Appoquinimink Creek, where it gives place to the Tertiary clays.
Subdivisions.
— The divisions of the green sand formation are found, with two exceptions, to correspond with those made by the New Jersey Surve3^ In the first place, what is called by Professor Cook the Upper Marl bed, is in Delaware, entirely absent, and in the second place, the so-called Bed sand is either entirely absent, or represented, as in the eastern part of the State, by a much thinner stratum than is found in New Jersey.
This scanty development of the Bed sand is, however, compensated for by a greater thickness of the Indurated green marl, which, in Delaware, becomes the prominent parting laj'er between the middle and lower marl beds.
The chronological chart of the Cretaceous (II), will show the divisions of the marl beds as found in the State.
Lower Marl Bed.
This stratum, which extends as a narrow belt on each side of the canal, is found to outcrop along the entire length of the same, rising about a foot above the surface of the water, and, farther west, to a height of 20 feet.
The several subdivisions of the lower marl will be treated in the order of their age.
Gretoidal Marl.
— This lowest layer is a tough, bluish black marl, which, upon drying, turns to a lighter ashen or earthen color, when it is found to be made of a large amount of green sand, siliceous sand and argillaceous matter.
The solid particles are coated with chalky carbonate of lime, which, under the microscope, appears as a fine white powder of a granular character, but often light and flocculent.
Shell Layer.
— The cretoidal marl is always found beneath a layer of shells or shell marl, having a thickness of about 3 feet.
In fact, the shells are usually mixed with a greater or less quantity of the black earthy marl having the characters of the cretoidal variety.
The shells are usually the characteristic species of the New Jersey equivalents, the most abundant being the clumsy Exogyra costata with Pychnodonta vesicularis and Ostrea larva.
Black Argillaceous and Micaceous Marl.
— This layer, overlying the shells, in its lower part possesses somewhat the characters of the cretoidal marl.
To the west of the Delaware railroad, however, it rises well out of the water of the canal, and assumes a distinctly argillaceous nature, becoming a black micaceous clay.
It also shows an entire absence of calcareous matter, and possesses a decidedly styptic taste, due to the large quantity of sulphate of iron in the percolating waters.
This argillaceous marl, when examined in the dry state by a glass, is found to be composed of minute sharp glassy particles of quartz, coated with a grayish dust, and associated with a few green sand particles of unusual fineness, together with a considerable quantity of minute scales of muscovite.
Thickness.
— Fortunately we have sufficient evidence for measuring accurp,tely the thickness of the lower marl bed.
The belt has an average breadth of 1^ miles, which, with a dip of 40 feet to the mile, would give a thickness of 60 feet for the stratum.
At Summit Bridge, the black marl outcrops to a height of 42 to 47 feet.
^Calling it 40, and adding this to 15 feet of marl in Higgin's pit, on much lower ground between St. George's and Delaware City, we get a total of 55 feet.
Since the 15 feet excavation at the latter place f?iiled to entirely peijetrate the marl, we may call 60 feet a safe estimate for the thickness of the lower marl bed.
Of this total, more than one-half is represented by the argillo-micaceous layer, and the remainder by the thin shell layer, and the lowest cretoidal marl.
There is one reason why the thickness of the lower marl stratum, as developed at Summit Bridge, should be employed in a calculation of the thickness, rather than the smaller figures obtained farther to the east or west.
Summit Bridge is on the dividing ridge.
From this meridional line, the land slopes to the east and west.
The marl, therefore, offers a diminishing thickness of outcrop as the river is approached, owing to the erosion of the upper argillomicaceous stratum, which, in the neighborhood of St. George's, and thence to Delaware City, has been thinned down to a thickness of only a few feet.
It is for this reason that the upper portion of the lower marl bed is so extensively developed at the western end of the belt, while the lower portion of the same formation is confined to the eastern portion of the belt.
Since the upper argillo-micaceous stratum is a poor, and even objectionable, material for fertilizing purposes, while the contrary may be said of the lower cretoidal variety, the locality for marl diggings must lie east of the railroad bridge.
Induratep Marl Bed.
The northern limit of this belt, which is also the southern limit of the lower marl bed, starts near the mouth of Scott's run, and thence keeps parallel with the canal to the railroad, when it begins slightly to diverge, cutting the headwaters of the northern branch of the Bohemia River.
The southern limit of the belt can only be approximately outlined, but as can best be determined runs from Port Penn through the headwaters of Drawyer's Ureek, and crosses the Maryland line four miles below the head of Bohemia River.
The indurated marl stratum is divided into two layers, the lower red sand, and the upper indurated marl.
Bed Sand.
— The formation which has been called the indurated marl bed is the equivalent of the red sands of the New Jersey geologists, it being, in both cases, the prominent parting layer between the lower and middle marl.
Along the south side of the canal, between the railroad bridge and St. George's, a soft reddish yellow sand of uniform character rests upon a stratum of black marl, It is deyeloped to a considerable thickness in the neighborhood of the latter town, and is characterized b3' the numerous particles of green sand contained in it.
The thickness could not, however, be accurately determined, running as it does, indistinctly into the overlying gravels.
West of the railroad, the deposit thins out entirely, and does not again appear.
Along the ravine made by Scott's Run the red sand has been found Ijing upon the shell marl, running to the south into a black decomposed green sand.
Notwithstanding the deposit of red sand, which outcrops along the south shore of the canal, the shell marl is dug by several parties on a strip along the same side, and for this reason, I have extended the southern limit of the lower marl belt slightly to the south of the southern shore of the canal.
Considering the foregoing facts, the writer with some trouble that cannot well be removed, has referred the reddish yellow sand stratum to the red sand of Prof. Cook.
This red sand occupies a narrow strip along the south side of the canal, to the east of the railroad, and runs to the south beneath the overlying stratum of decomposed marl, by which nearly the whole area of the bed as previously marked out, is covered.
From this we see that the true red sand, which is so extensively developed in New Jersey has a less thickness in Delaware, but is replaced by the indurated marl, which in New Jersey is found more thickly exposed, but occupying the same stratigraphical position above the red sand.
Indurated Oreen Sand.
— This marl attracts from the observer more attention than any other, coming to the surface as it does in numerous localities, and having been extensively worked for its pre-eminent qualities as a fertilizer.
Already in a state of partial decomposition, the decay rapidly progresses by the removal of the potash, and the oxidation of the ferous salt of iron, or its direct solution by carbonated water.
Generall}^ speaking, the marl in the bed is of a black, loamy nature which, when dry, assumes a brownish or grayish tinge.
It is made of a variable quantity of green sand, with a large proportion of siliceous sand.
In some places the marl is found to contain a large amount of argillaceous matter, while again it is extremely clean and dry.
It differs entirely from the lower marl, by containing no carbonate of lime in the pulverent state ; but in certain places the deposit abounds in shells, which renders it comparable with the shell marl of the former formation.
Examined with a glass, the grains of indurated marl prove of a brownish color, and very rough and irregular, apparently the effect of weathering.
The grains can easily be crushed by the finger-nail, thus exposing the internal green color.
The granules are coated with a laj'er of brown oxide of iron, within which shell exists the unchanged nucleus of glauconite.
The Indurated Marl, unless finely pulverized, has a lumpy tendency, caused by numerous grains of green sand cemented by the brown oxide of iron.
In fact, the marl has, at certain points, been almost entirely changed to brown oxide of iron, while in other cases, seams of the latter penetrate the mass of the green sand.
Prof. Cook is of the opinion that the red sand of New Jersey is due to the decomposition of green sand, whereby the soluble salts have been carried away, leaving the insoluble siliceous sand and red oxide of iron.
We may, therefore, regard the belt, which in New Jersey is called the red sand, and in Delaware the indurated marl, as a true marl belt in a greater or less degree of decomposition ; and while a slightly indurated green sand may entirely differ mineralogically from a red siliceous sand, the difference is after all only one of degree of decomposition.
Middle Marl Bed.
This belt crosses the State with a uniform breadth of three and a half miles, the northern line running from Port Penn, a little north of Draw3'er's creek, and crossing the State line four miles south of the Bohemia River.
The southern line crosses the centre of Noxontown mill-pond, keeping parallel with and a little south of Appoquinimink creek.
The middle marl bed (see II) is divided into three very distinct layers: (1) A lowermost pure green sand ; (2) an intermediate layer of friable shells, and (3) an upper yellow or reddish 3ellow sand.
The characters of these several strata will be considered as follows : — Green Sand Layer.
— This lowermost subdivision of the middle marl bed occupies the main width of the belt to the north of Appoquinimink Creek, and exhibits its principal exposures along Drawyer's Creek and Silver Run, where its characters may be well studied.
It differs entirely from any of the foregoing varieties, in that it is entire!
}free from calcareous matter, and shows none of the general induration so characteristic of the previous formation.
On the contrary, it is a very dry, pure green sand, which varies in color from a deep bluish to a yellowish green, the latter shade being due to a considerable admixture of siliceous sand.
The extreme dryness of this marl, compared with the preceding varieties, is owing to the complete absence of argillaceous matter.
The grains, when examined, are smooth and well rounded, and although frequently so soft as to be easily crushed by the nail, show no evidence of chemical decomposition.
Shell Layer.
— This intermediate, well-defined layer, is best exposed at the head of Noxontown mill-pond, and along the south side of Appoquinimink Creek.
In thickness it varies from 3 to 10 feet, being entirely made up of white friable shells, tightly packed together, the most common of which are Terehratula fragalis and T. Harlani^i with Pychnodonta vesicularis.
Very often the upper part of the shell layer has lost its carbonate of lime, which is replaced by brown oxide of iron.
At the head of Noxontown milLpond, the white shell layer, of which the upper part is ferruginous, rises 5 to 6 feet out of the water, capped by a yellow sand marl.
Yellow Sand.
— This is the uppermost laj-er of the Middle Marl Bed, and is alwaj^s found associated with and overlying the shells.
It may be described as a yellowish or reddish sand, containing a small and variable proportion of glauconite, the latter often becoming so predominant as to give the deposit a decidedly greenish tinge.
DiORiTic Trap.
Three miles to the south of Newark, Delaware, Iron Hill rises from the Cretaceous plane, the one conspicuous object for 10 miles or more.
Running in a generally northwest and southeast direction, it has a length of over 3 miles, a width varying from 1 mile to 1^, and a height of 225 feet.
The flanks and summits of this hill are covered with boulders of diorite and cellular quartz.
On the south side, about half way up, is seen the outcrop of a bedded mass of serpentine rook, with a strike following the trend of the hill.
An examination of the loose fragments of gTcen rock lying upon the surface showed them to be composed of a number of indefinite chloritic and serpentine materials in a state of partial decomposition.
As the greenish fragments were also observed to run into unchanged trap, occurring as huge outcropping boulders, the proof appeared conclus^ive that the serpentine rock had been due to the alteration of the hornblende in the dioritic trap.
Following the hill in its northwest course, we find the same rock crossing the railroad, along the cutting of which the nature of the dike is revealed.
Here we first pass some 200 feet of a soft greenish clay, which rises as walls 20 feet high.
Fragments of the serpentine rock, on the surface above the railroad cutting, showed it running into unchanged diorite.
.Lying next to the serpentine rock was 50 feet or more of both compact and cellular quartz, standing upon edge, and striking to the northwest.
It was completely impregnated with minute specks and octahedrons of magnetite, which exhibited their decomposition by numerous minute cells filled with iron oxide.
The cellular quartz, associated indiscriminately with the compact, was literally honeycombed, the great cells being partially filled with ochrey powder.
West of the quartz occurred a thinner development of the serpentine, offering the same features as before.
With these facts, we are led to regard the exposure before us as a highly changed dioritic dike, in the centre of which is a huge mass of ferruginous jaspery quartz, from which we interpret the structure of the whole hill.
Attaining the sumniit, we find several large pits worked for iron ore. One of them, wrought by George Whitaker, has walls of soft greenish serpentine earth rising some 40 feet, in which are imbedded bouUlers and fragments of cellular ferruginous quartz and ironstone, together with a considerable admixture of ochrey powder and granular limonite.
The economic value of the workings consists in washing the serpentine earth, and extracting the limonitic materials.
Near the wash-house the yellowish green rock is seen to outcrop with a strike to the northwest.
Several of the pits on the hill offer much the same features, while some of them contain a greater abundance of the boulders of cellular quartz.
The method of formation of the crusts of iron-stone may be determined by an examination of the numerous quartzose boulders.
It consists in the segregation of iron oxide as tortuous veins within the substance of the rock, set free by the complete disintegration of the latter ; while the powdery and granular limonite has resulted from an oxidation of the magnetite which so completely impregnates the jaspery quartz.
Associated with the boulders of trap, are certain foreign materials belonging to the drift.
Imbedded within the serpentine earth of Whitaker's pit, are several large decomposed boulders of granite.
Upon the summit of the hill, a large boulder of dark limestone was also found, besides various other materials belonging to th,e boulder drift so universally scattered over the State, 260 proceedings of the academy of [1884.
October 21.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Yiee-President, in the chair.
Twenty-nine persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication : — " On the Cuspidiform Petrogl^^phs, or so-called Bird-track Rock-Sculptures, of Ohio," by D. G. Brinton, M. D. " Preliminary Observations on the Brain of Menopoma," by Henry F. Osborn.
October 28.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Thirty-nine persons present.
Organisms in Ice.
— Prof, Letdy stated that a member had placed in his hands, for examination, a vial of water obtained from melting ice which is used for cooling drinking-water.
From time to time, among some sediment taken from a water-cooler, the gentleman had observed what he supposed to be living worms, which he suspected were introduced with the water into the cooler, and not with the ice.
Upon melting some of the ice alone, the worms were still observed, and the water submitted for examination was some that was thus obtained.
Prof. Leidy was surprised to find a number of worms among some flocculent sediment, mainly consisting of vegetal hairs and other debris.
Besides the worms, there were also immature Anguillulas, and a number of Rotifer vulgar^is, all living.
It would appear that these animals had all been contained in the ice, and had been liberated on melting.
It was an unexpected source of contamination of our drinking-water, that Prof. Leidy had previously supposed to be very improbable.
The little worms he was not familiar with.
They belong to the family of Lumbricidse, and probably may be an undescribed species of Lumbriculus.
They are white, or colorless, from 4 to 6 millimeters long, by a third of a millimeter in thickness.
The body is divided into thirty segments, bearing podal spines, which form four rows, with three in each fasciculus, and divergeut.
The spines are curved at the root, pointed at the free end, and measure 0*05 to 0-06 mm.
long.
The upper lip is blunt conical; the terminal segment truncate.
Tliere appears to be no distinct girdle, but the tliird, fourth, and fifth f^egments contain capsuligenous glands and other organs pertaining to the sexual appaiatus.
Several dead worms swarmed in the interior with large, ovate, beaked, ciliated infusorians measuring from 0-05 to 0*06 mm.
long by 0-04 to 0-048 mm.
broad.
Chapter I, Article 6, of the By-Laws was amended by the addition of the following : — " Neither the building occupied by the society, nor any part of the site or ground pertaining thereto, shall be sold, leased, encumbered or charged in any manner whatever, nor shall any apartment or space in the Academy or adjacent ground be assigned or appropriated permanently to the exclusive use of any person or to the accommodation of any special collection or collections, unless the proposition in this connection be in writing, signed by at least five members, presented at a stated meeting of the Academy, referred to the Council for examination and report — which report shall be considered as special business, to be acted upon at a subsequent stated meeting, to be held at least twenty-six da3'^s after that at which the report of the Council has been read, the date to be fixed by resolution ; but no action shall be taken thereon until after full notice thereof and of said date shall be given to the members by advertisement once a week, for three weeks in two daily newspapers of general circulation in Philadelphia, and by written or printed notice by mail or otherwise to all the members whose residences or places of business shall be known to the Recording Secretar}'.
At such meeting the measure proposed may be considered and adopted b^^ two-thirds of the members present at that meeting, or at any subsequent adjourned meeting for that purpose, provided that at least eighty members be present and vote ; and provided also that nothing in this article shall be so construed as to change, alter or repeal Art.
5, Chapter XI, or release the curators from the charge and care of collections, as provided for in these by-laws."
Chapter XVI, Article 4, of the By-Laws was amended as follows : — In the third line, after the word " inclusive," insert the words " except Article 6, Chap.
I " and add the followings words or paragraph : — "Article 6, Chap.
I, may be amended, altered or repealed by two-thirds, upon a yea, and nay vote of not less than eighty members, at a meeting called to consider that special business, after advertisement and individual notification of the members, in manner and form specified in said article, but not otherwise."
The following were elected members : — George Fales Baker, W. B. Scott, Edmund J. James, and H. LaBarre Jayne.
The following were elected correspondents : — G. Yom Rath, of Bonn, and Geo.
E. Dobson, of London.
The following were ordered to be printed : — PEELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS UPON THE BRAIN OF MENOPOMA.
BY HENRY F. OSBORN, SC.
D. This is the second of a series of papers ^ upon the brains of the American TJrodela.
In tlie stud}^ of llenopoma, I have detected numerous errors in the first paper upon Amphiuma,^ and my attention has kindly been called to others by Prof. Wilder and Dr. E. C. Spitzka.
The brains of Amphiuma and Menopoma are even more alike in their internal than in their external structure ; while the reverse is the case in the comparison of Menopoma and 3Ienobranchus, which resemble each other very closely externally, but in longitudinal section present impoi'tant diflferences.
The greater accuracy of the Menopoma work is due to changes in technical methods.
Before hardening, the brains were inflated with Miiller's fluid, so as to preserve the natural proportion of the cavities.
After treatment with alcohol, they were placed for a week in dilute carmine.
Calberla's egg-mass was emploj'ed as before, except that the A'-entricles were injected with the mass before hardening.
The delicate parts of the brain-roof were thus retained.
It appears now that celloidin may be used for this purpose to equal, if not to greater, advantage in results, and with considerable economy of time.
The sections were cut in absolute alcohol, were then floated upon a slide in consecutive order, from twenty to fifty at a time, and were covered with a delicate slip of blotting-paper during treatment with oil of cloves.
These changes greatly improved the three series, which were obtained in as' many planes — horizontal, transverse and vertical to the long axis of the brain.
External Structure (PI.
YI, figs.
1, 2, 3).
With a single exception, and that an important one, the brain of Menopoma approaches closely the typical brain.
The seg^ Many of these results were presented in the Biological Section of the American Association, September, 1884.
2 Preliminary Observations upon the Brain of Ampliiuma.
Proc.
Phila.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc, July, 1883. mental ^ parts are clearlj^ differentiated from each other in regular succession, beginning with the olfactory lobes or Rhinencephalon, the Prosencephalon, the Diencephalon, the Mesencephalon, the Epencephalon and Metencephalon.
This was not found to be the case in Amphiuma, where the Rhinenand Prosencephala and Dienand Mesencephala are barely distinguishable.
The exception above noted is that, the epiphysis does not appear upon the external surface, but, as we shall see, is altogether wanting, while a vascular plexus lying between the hemispheres offers a very deceptive imitation of this important structure.
The hypophysis and infundibulum, however, have a striking development.
A careful study of the surface of the diencephalon discloses a minute transparent area lying between two whitish streaks.
The latter are transverse commissures in the roof of the third ventricle ; the former is the cavity of the epiphysial tube, or recessus pinealis, the brain-cavity being separated from the pia mater only by a single layer of cells.
This transparent area has already been pointed out by Goette^ in the frog, where it is somewhat less conspicuous.
In front of the foremost commissure is a triangular transparent space ; at the sides of this are two hornlike forward continuations of the diencephalon.
These processes I consider homologous with the habenulae of the mammalian brain, and with the " Schnabelformiger Fortsatz " described by Muller in the lamprey's brain.
In the lamprey they coalesce in ^ The nomenclature proposed by Prof. Burt G. "Wilder has been adopted, with few exceptions.
It proceeds upon the consistent plan of naming the segments, and thenvarious parts, as far as possible, after the segmental names which now meet with general acceptance among anatomists ; also of using abbreviated forms of the longer terms now in use.
For the sake of clearness the new terms, and their synonyms, which are employed in this paper are given below.
The Prosencephalon, including: the procoilim, lateral ventricles ; the proj)lexi, lateral plexuses ; the prosoccelia, ventriculus communis laborum ; the supraplexus, plexus in the roof of the prosocoelia ; the porta, foramen of Munro ; the terma, lamina terminalis ; the prcecommissura, anterior commissure.
The Diencephalon, including : the supracommissura, commissura habenarum ; the processus and recessvs pinealis, the postcommissura, posterior commissure ; the diacodia, third ventricle.
The Mesencephalon, including : the mesoccelia, iter, etc.
A system of this kind must undergo modification, from time to time, but in the end it will be far superior to the present cumbersome multinomial system.
^ Entwickelungsgeschichte der Unke, 1875. the median line, but here they are separate, as vaay be seen by a close external examination, and verified by transverse sections.
This homology is confirmed by the stud}oi the foremost of the transverse commissures.
In front of this space rises the reddish body, which has been generally mistaken for the epipliysis.
In the natural state this body is not very prominent, but as soon as the ventricles collapse, it is thrust conspicuously upwards.
The ventricular collapse is also the occasion of an artificial dorsal furrow in the optic lobe, which is here absolutely unpaired.
Upon the ventral aspect of the brain we again observe two transparent areas.
One resembles a long slit in front of the optic chiasma, and is found to be a portion of the lamina terminalis.
The other is due to a thinning of the floor of the infundibulum, and is seen immediately in front of the hypoph3'sis.
The hemispheres are closely applied to each other, but have no structural union.
The cerebellum is slightly overhung by the optic lobe.
The proportions of the various segmental parts are very similar to those of Menobranchus, and this seems to accord with the similarity'' of the proportions in the head, body and limbs of these animals.
Internal Structure.
A natural introduction to the internal structure would be a description of the walls and cavities of the various segments, but it happens that the boundaries of these segments can only be determined after we settle upon the relations of the parts which compose them, so, until some of the details have been investigated, this description must be postponed.
In general, the brain is a tube forking in front into the paired lobes and cavities of the hemispheres.
The Ependyma and Pia Mater.
— The pia mater closely invests all the brain surfaces and sends numerous nutrient vessels into its walls.
It envelops all parts of the brain, with the exception of the hypophysis, which lies external to it (fig.
4), so that the pia actually separates the h3rpoph3'sis from the floor of the infundibulum and sends in numerous smaller vessels between the epithelial tubes which constitute this body.
This relation is not true of the posterior lobe of the hypophysis which is a development of the brain-wall and is surrounded by the pia, the anterior lobe as is well known, arising from the oral epithelium.
At several points the pia and ependyma unite to form the sole elements of the brain-wall, giving the transparent effect, in external view, which has been mentioned.
A striking instance of this is seen in the dorsal wall of the infundibular cavity, which is extremely delicate, the ependyma consisting of a single row of cells.
The vascular plexuses above the medulla and between the hemispheres are instances of such union, elaborated by the introduction of vascular plexuses from the pia.
Three varieties of the cells of the ependyma can be distinguished.
The cells of the first variety form a general investment of the inner brainwall ; they are from one to three deep, cylindrical or much elongated, crowded between them are yellowish oily granules, and many of the cells remotely resemble ordinary fat cells in the possession of a proto-plasmic nucleated centre, lying between yellowish, unstained terminations.
It is the innermost of these cells which give rise to thread-like processes which radiate outwards in the brain-wall, but the latter never make such beautiful displays as are seen in the frog's brain, and figured by Stieda.^ The cells of the second variety lack the fatty granules ; they are found coating the prsecommissura, but are principally observed wherever the brain-wall is reduced to a single row of cells as in the roof of the infundibulum, and in that part of the floor to which the hypophysis is attached; they are small, rounded cells, at one point becoming very much elongated, namely, in the sides of the processus pineahs.
The transition from this to the third variety is beautifully shown in the forward portion of the roof of the third ventricle.
Here the rounded passes into the beaded character of the single cell layer which follows the elaborate foldings of the diaplexus.
The consecutive series of sections in three planes afford fine material for the study of the nerve-fibre courses, and much has already been ascertained that throws light upon the relations of the brain segments.
I will here describe only the fibre courses which have a transverse direction, considering under this head the relations of the cerebellum,^ the origin of the optic nerves, and the various commissures.
^ Zeitschrift fiir wiss.
Zool., Band xx.
* Compare E. C. Spitzka.
The relations of the Cerebellum, Alienist and Neurologist.
New York, January, 1884.
18 The Cerebellum (figs.
6, t).
— Numerous as are the errors which at present prevail in the literature of the amphibian brain, none are more striking than those relating to the cerebellum.^ It is said to retain its embryonic condition of a small band-like structure stretching over the fourth ventricle.
Now it happens that the amphibian cerebellum is a flat structure, and if viewed on edge, as is the case in looking down upon the frog's brain, it does appear very small ; if, on the other hand, it is seen in vertical longitudinal section, its large bulk, relatively to other parts, is at once apparent.
If, further, as will be done in another paper, a corresponding section of an amphiuma brain be superposed upon the frog section, we find that the former barely covers one-twenty-fourth of the diameter of the latter, although the Amphiuma is a very much larger animal.
The description referred to above, then, is as exaggerated when applied to the frog as it is true of such forms as Amphiuma, Menopoma and Menohranchus.
In Amphiuma, the cerebellum is reduced to its simplest possible expression.
It seems doubtful whether it contains any nerve cells whatever.
In Menopoma, however, a few cells similar to those in the optic lobes, can be observed on either side of the transverse fibres which make up the larger part of this body ; it is difficult to distinguish these cells from those of the ependyma.
Notwithstanding the character of this bod}', its main relations to the adjoining parts are precisely similar to those of the higher vei'tebrates.
These relations have already been indefinitely indicated \>y Stieda.
(1.)
From the lateral tips of the medulla arises a column of fibres on either side, which arches forward ; here the columns are reinforced by fibres apparently arising from lateral cell-masses, these columns turn back and enter the cerebellum.
(2.)
Passing beneath these columns is another pair, which diverge and then converge as the}' enter the pars peduncularis of the mesencephalon ; they can be followed some distance forwards upon either side of the mesocoelia.
(^3.)
Passing directly forward from the ventral surface of the cerebellum, a few scattering fibres enter the valvula and with some doubt can be followed into the cells of the roof of the optic lobe.
In one and two we recognize the postand pme-pedunculi or inferior ^ Mihalkovics, loc.
cit., p. 56 ; also, Wiedersheim, Lehrbuch der Vergleicheuden Anatomic, 1883, p. 397. and superior (processus ad cerebrum) peduncles of the higher vertebrate brain.
The scarcit}-, if not absence, of nerve cells in the Amphiuma or Menopoma cerebellum, renders it difficult to understand the meaning of tliese peduncles, unless we regard the cerebellum here as in large part a decussational system, composed of fibres crossing from one side of the brain to the other.
It may be added that the frog's cerebellum is richly cellular.
The Optic Nerves (fig.
8).
— No fibres have as yet been followed from the optic lobe (Mesencephalon) to enter the optic tracts, although there can be little doubt that they are present ; but the fibres in the thalami arise in a manner which points, almost with certainty, to the important fact that in the Amphibia the decussation of the optic tracts is incomplete.
In other words, part of the fibres of each optic nerve enter from the chiasma, i. e., from the opposite side of the brain, part enter from the same side of the brain.
(1.)
The fibres supplj'ing the chiasma, arise from cell masses in the upper lateral portions of the thalami, and sweep around the sides of the thalami, partly encircling the main longitudinal fibre system (crura cerebri) ; they pass downwards and obliquely forwards, enter the chiasma, and apparently pass to the nerve of the opposite side.
(2.)
In the floor and lower lateral cell masses of the thalami arise smaller bundles of fibres, which pass beneath the longitudinal system, above and then in front of the chiasma to enter the optic nerve of the same side.
They can be traced by following successive sections forwards, but do not interdigitate with the fibres of the chiasma, as in the figure which combines the results of a series of sections.
If this fact is confirmed by other observers, it will show that the partial decussation of the optic tracts is an early, if not a primitive condition, instead of being peculiar to the higher mammals, as has been generally maintained.
The Commissures.
TJie Prsecommissura (fig.
9).
— In the frog's brain ^ it has been found that there are two divisions of this commissure : a posterior, connecting the lower portions of the hemispheres, and an anterior, connecting the upper median walls.
Both have been found in Menopoma^ the latter arching upwards at the sides, and, as is clear in fig.
4, it forms on either side the posterior boundary'' of 1 Stieda, Iqc, qU., p, 308, the porta, or passage from the single to the lateral cavities of the Prosencephalon.
In Menopoma, however, the posterior division is immediately below the anterior, and it is found in the horizontal sections to be not a true commissural, but a decussational system.
At this point, a large number of the fibres composing each of the longitudinal tracts, just mentioned in connection with the optic chiasma, cross each other and pass to or from the base of the opposite hemisphere.
In Menohranchus these two tracts are completely separated, the upper division passing independently across the ventricle.
The Postcomviissura.
— Although this commissure is part of a conspicuous fold of the brain-roof separating the Dienfrom the Mesencephalon, it really contains in the Amphibia but few fibres.
Another interesting fact is that these fibres do not enter into the thalami, but pass obliquely backwards into the region of the longitudinal tracts composing the pars peduncularis of the Mesencephalon.
This accords with Mihalkovics' ^ observations upon the chick, and tends to confirm Pawlowsky's ^ view that this is not a commissure in the strict application of the word, but is rather a side connection of the longitudinal fibre system.
This view accords also with Ahlborn's recent observations upon the lamprey.
TJie Supracommissura (fig.
8).
— In the forward portion of the roof of the diacoelia, and immediately above the optic chiasma is a commissure, which, as far as I can ascertain, has been heretofore entirely overlooked in the Amphibia.
In Menopoma and AmpMuma it is very large ; in the frog it is much reduced, and lies further forward ; in Menohranchus it is represented by a slender band of fibres immediately in front of the recessus pinealis.
In all these forms it lies in front of the epiphysial process, and completely separates this tube from the diaand supraplexus.
It occupies the same relative position as the variously named Commissura habenarum,^ or the commissure of the pineal stalk (Mihalkovics)^ of the mammalian brain, as well 1 Loe.
cit., p. 73.
2 Pawlowsky, Ueber den Faserverlauf in der hinteren Gehimcommissur.
Zeits.
fiir wiss.
Zool., Band xxiv, 1874, 3 Wilder, Anatomical Technology, 1882, p. 463.
* Loc.
cit., p. 100.
This comparison is sonae^hat doubtful.
as the commissure figured by Professor Balfour ^ in the Elasmobranch brain.
It passes across the posterior ends of the hook-like processes of the thalami, which I have compared with the habenulae, and the most satisfactory interpretation of this commissure is afforded by a comparison with Ahlborn's figures of the lamprey brain.
2 At the sides and to the front of the recessus pinealis^ I find in Menopoma two compact masses of nerve cells, which I think we may compare with the ganglia habenarum.
These masses form the posterior, and to some extent the inferior, boundary of the supracommissura.
Following the fibres of this commissure downwards and forwards, we find that they partly enter the thalami, while the greater part pass directly into the hemispheres.
Their distribution, then, is similar to that of the fibres of the teenia thalami optici, while the commissural portion may be compared with a slender commissure, the commissura tenuissima^ traversing the habenulae in the lamprey's brain.
The relations to the hemispheres are especially interesting, as they indicate, between the posterior parts of these bodies, a commissural union of considerable extent and importance.
Infundibular Commissures.
— The lobes of the infundibulum are united dorsally and ventrally by two commissures, the uppermost being quite distinct and extensive (fig.
4) and forming the thin fold which divides the iter from the infundibular cavity.
The Hypophysis and Epiphysis.
The backward extension of the hypophysis, together with its great development, and the unusual size of the infundibular cavity and lateral lobes, lend this portion of the brain especial interest.
I will, however, only remark here upon the clear separation of the anterior and posterior lobes of the hypophysis, by the turning in of the pia mater over the forward face of the anterior lobe (fig.
4).
The vessels of the pia ramify between the columnar epithelial cells, which compose the tubes forming this lobe.
In vertical section the lumen of one of these tubes is occasionally seen.
The ependj'ma is much convoluted in the posterior lobe, and these foldings may readily be mistaken for tubes.
Our knowledge of the epiphysis in the Amphibia is in a far from satisfactory state.
There can be little doubt as to the correctness * Elasmobranch Fishes, plate xv.
* Loc.
cit., p. 285. of Goette's important observation ^ that in the batrachia the epiphysis proper loses its primitive connection with the brain, and lies external to the skull, while its primitive union with the brain is indicated by the more or less degenerate walls of the epiphysial tube.
Yet Goette's figures do not give such a clear history of these changes, as the importance of the subject demands, and so far as we know, there have been no embryological investigations on this subject among the urodela.
In the meantime, since the publication of Goette's discovery, many general works ^ by different writers upon comparative anatomy have appeared, all of which figure the epiphysis as a conspicuous object lying between the cerebral hemispheres.
There can be little doubt that these, as well as all the earlier writers upon the Amphibian brain, such as Wyman, Ecker, Leidig, Rathke and Stieda have mistaken the remarkable upgrowth of the vascular plexus above the prosocoelia for the epiphysis, and that this bod3^ in the urodela, as well as in the batrachia, is represented upon the brain surface merelyby a portion of its primitive stalk.
The grounds for this statement, so far as it concerns the urodela, are that in Amphiuma, Menobranchus and Menopoma portions of this primitive stalk can be seen in vertical section, in different stages of arrest, and retaining to a greater or less extent the primitive condition of a glovefinger-like upfolding of the brain roof.
In the discovery of the supracommissura and the invariable position of the recessus pinealis, between this and the postcommissura, we find unmistakable anatomical evidence for Goette's conclusions, although we are not thereby warranted in assuming that the development of the epiphysis is the same in the urodela as in the batrachia.
All doubt is also removed as to the connection between the stalk of the epiphysis and the supraplexus, as the latter is clearly distinct from the former, and does not establish such close relations with the stalk as in the birds.
In Menopoma (fig.
4) the ependyma cells upon either side of the recessus become much enlarged and elongated ; upon the upper surface of the brain they lose this character, becoming ^ Entwickelungsgeschichte der Unke, 1875, p. 283. '
Huxley and Martin's Practical Biology, Wiedersheim's Lehrbuch der vergleichenden Anatomic and Wilder' s Anatomical Technology may be cited as examples.
small and spherical, and folding over, form a single-layered much flattened sac, the lumen of which retains its connection with the diacoelia by a narrow slit.
This is the only adult trace of the processus pinealis in Menopoma.
In Rana (fig.
5) I find the same elongation of the ependyma cells, and similar cells forming the processus, but in a double row.
Here the supracommissura is much smaller, and more widely separated from the postcommissura, this interval is bridged b}'^ a delicate single row of cells which appear to turn up and form the anterior border of the recessus, although this point is not very clear.
There is also some doubt whether the lumen of the processus retains its communication with the diacoelia.
The processus itself is a long, flattened, two-layered sac, circular in section, extending anteriorly so as to overlap the supracommissura.
The pia mater overlaps the processus upon all sides, indicating that it primitively was directed upwards.
Extending from above the postcommissura, forwards to the base of the epiphysial stalk, are numerous fibres, which appear to enter into relations with the cells of the stalk.
In Menobranchus and Amphiuma we find a nearer approach to the frog than to the Menopoma condition, the processus forming an elongated flattened sac, completely constricted off from the brain cavity.
The Flexi choroidei.
— There is a singularly simple and beautiful display of the relations of the intra-ventricular blood-vessels in the brain of Menopoma (fig.
4).
The thrusting in of the ependj^ma extends from the supracommissura to the upper portion of the terma.
The arterial supply is apparently derived from the median arteria carotis cerebralis, and the venous return is at the sides of the supraplexus.
The division into supra-, diaand proplexus is a somewhat artificial one here, but is not so when applied to the Amphiuma brain, where the supraplexus is very prominent, and the diaplexus extends well back into the Mesencephalon.
The lateral wings of the diaplexus are shown passing through the porta in fig.
9.
The nature of the ependyma cell-lining of these vessels is very constant ; small and large, the cells have the same elongated, bead-like appearance.
The Encephalic Segments.
— Stieda,^ following general usage, considers that portion of the median brain-floor lying behind the Loc.
cit.
chiasma as the lamina cinerea ; that lying in front, as the lamina terminalis.
This construction cannot be applied here with accuracy, owing to the unusual position of the praecommissura, in the brain-floor, instead of in the anterior median wall.
Yet for comparative purposes it is best to retain this interpretation.
It gives us an unusually extended prosocoelia, or ventriculus communis loborum, which we find is a distinctive feature also of the Amphiuma and Menobranchus brain.
The supracommissura may be considered as the upper posterior boundary of the prosocoelia, separating it arbitrarily from the diacoelia, as the postcommissura does the diafrom the mesocoelia.
At all events, the supraplexus clearly belongs to this cavity rather than to the diacoelia.
The general subject must be discontinued here, to be resumed in connection with the brain of the Menobranchus, in a subsequent paper.
Morphological Laboratory, Princeton, Oct. 20, I884.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE VI.
Illustrating the Brains of Menopoma and Rana.
Encephalic segments Eh.
— Rhinencephalon ; Pr.
— Prosencephalon ; Di.
— Diencephalon ; Me.
— Mesencephalon ; Up.
— Epencephalon ; Met.
— Metencephalon.
General Abbreviations.
a.
— ^Prosocoelia, cavity of the primitive prosencephalon.
a. hph.
— Anterior lobe of hypophysis.
a c c— Branch oi Arteria carotis cerebralis.
cbl.
— Cerebellum.
ch.
— Optic chiasma.
en.
ce.
— Canalis centralis.
dc.
— Diacoelia, third ventricle.
dpx.
— Diaplexus, choroid plexus of the third ventricle.
end.
— Ependyma.
h. — Habenulse.
hem.
and hem'.
— Section and external surface of right hemisphere.
hph.
— Hypophysis.
i. cm.
— Inferior commissure of infundibulum.
I.
— Longitudinal fibre courses, cut transversely.
med.
— Medulla oblongata.
mse.
— Mesocoelia, iter.
mtc.
— Metacoelia, fourth ventricle, mtpx.
— Metaplexus, tela vasculosa of the fourth ventricle.
my.
— Myelon, spinal cord.
opt.
— Optic lobe.
p. — ^Porta, Foramen of Munro.
pes.
— Postcommissura, posterior commissure.
p. 7iph.
— Posterior lobe of hypophysis.
pi.
— Pia, pia mater.
ppd.
— Post-pedunculus, posterior peduncle of cerebellum.
pp.
— Pars peduncularis of Mesencephalon.
pre.
— ^Procoelia, lateral ventricle, pr.
cs.
and pr.
cs'.
— Prsecommissura, anterior commissure, lower and upper divisions.
pr.
eph.
— Processus pinealis, the epiphysial stalk.
pr.
px.
— Proplexus, the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle.
pr.
pd.
— Pi sepedunculus, anterior peduncle of cerebellum.
r. eph.
— Recessus infra-pinealis, the opening of the epiphysial cavity into the diacoelia.
rhen.
— Section of olfactory lobe.
rst.
— Restiform tract.
8C8.
— Supracommissura, commissure of the habenulge.
scm.
— Superior commissure of the infundibulum.
spx.
— Supraplexus (formerly considered the epiphysis), the upper portion of the vascular plexus of the prosocoelia.
spd.
— Supra-pedun cuius, fibres passing from the cerebellum into the optic lobe.
t. — Terma, lamina terminalis.
Figures 1, 2, 3.
Dorsal, ventral and lateral aspects of the brain of Menopoma AUeghense, enlarged five diameters.
The whitish band stretching across the infundibulum, in front of the hypophysis, probably consists of the inferior infundibular commissure.
In the dorsal aspect of the fresh brain, the position of the epiphysial process, is marked by an oval transparent area, in front and behind which, the supraand postcommissurse shine through.
This area is undoubtedly contracted by reagents.
The natural backward direction of the cerebellum is also altered, so that it hangs beneath the optic lobe.
Figure 4.
Longitudinal vertical section of the brain of Menopoma, in a median plane as far forwards as the terma, and in front of this through the centre of the right hemisphere ; enlarged sixteen diameters.
The dotted ellipse indicates the position of the porta, or foramen of Munro.
Figure 5.
The diatela, or roof of the third ventricle of the brain of Rana Mugiens.
This figure represents the long tubular epiphysial process, composed of two or three rows of cells, mostly enveloped by the pia and extending forwards above the supracommissura.
The inner layer cells send short processes into the persistent cavity of the epiphysis, and the cavity is filled by a highly transparent meshwork, which may simply consist of coagulated fluid.
The opening into tlie diacoelia, r.
eph., is doubtful.
The lines {fi.
), indicate a number of nerve fibres, which apparently extend to the base of the epiphysial process.
Figures 6-9 are of Menopoma.
Figure 6, A composite of three transverse sections through the cerebellum and medulla.
Figure 7.
Diagrammatic representation of the nerve fibre courses springing from the cerebellum.
Figure 8.
A composite of six sections through the diencephalon, showing the course of the fibres of the supracommissura, and piobable origin of the optic tracts, a-a', supposed course of fibres passing from upper parts of thalamus to optic nerve of opposite side, h-b', course of fibns from lower parts of thalamus to optic nerve of same side.
Figure 9.
An oblique section through the region of the prsecommissura, showing the distributions of the fibres of this commissure, also the supraplexus, the proplexus, and porta.
The right side is cut anterior to the left.
ON THE CUSPIDIFORM PETEOGLYPHS, OR SO-CALLED BIRD-TRACZ ROCK-SCULPIUBES, OF OHIO.
BY DR. D. G. BRINTON.
In the study of American rock-sculptures, the attention of archaeologists has several times been drawn to a peculiar character which appears frequently on the inscribed rocks of central and northern Ohio, and rarely, or not at all, outside of this region.
It has been called a bird-track or specifically, a turkey-track, and has been supposed to be a conventional representation of the impression of the foot of this or some other bird.
A recent study of one of the best examples of it, near Newark, Ohio, has led me to a different opinion as to its significance, and I take the occasion to explain this, and also to offer some suggestions as to the distribution and purport of this design.
In Ohio, rocks bearing this figure are found near Barnesville, Belmont Co. ; near Amherst, Lorain Co. ; at Independence, Cuyahoga Co. ; in Licking Co., and elsewhere.
It does not occur in the rather numerous inscriptions upon the Ohio River, nor in those south of that stream.
Nor has it been reported in the various petroglyphs existing in the Susquehanna Valley and in New England.
In fact, it seems confined pretty closely to that area which was occupied by that people whom we call, for want of a better name, the mound-builders.
This adds interest to the investigation of the character and its meaning.
That it possessed some definite signification would seem to be demonstrated b}^ the frequency of its recurrence and the regularity shown in its tracings ; this indicating that it was a familiar figure, and that constant repetition had conferred on the designer a certain technical skill in forming it.
This would not be the case were it merely the product of an idle hand, and of no import.
As I have said, this peculiar figure does not occur in other American rock-inscriptions.
It is, indeed, very rare in any other locality.
Dr. Richard Andree, in his " Ethnographische ParaU lelen?''
(Stuttgart, 1878), gives drawings of fifty-nine rock inscriptions from various parts of the world, but on examining them I find only one which presents any analogy to that under consideration ; that one is from Somal Land, in Africa, ten degrees north of the equator.
There are, however, some very ancient Chinese inscriptions, dating from about the fourth century before our era, which show a similar device.
For this reason.
Dr. J. F. Salisbury, of Ohio, has maintained that some connection existed between the moundbuilders and the ancient Chinese, My own opinion, based on a close inspection of the inscribed rock in Licking Co., Ohio, is that the so-called bird-tracks were never intended to represent the footprints of any species of birds, but are conventional signs for arrows or arrow-heads.
My reasons are the following : In no case are there representations of toes or claws.
The centre line is fi*equently prolonged, passing be^'ond the junction of the lateral lines, thus giving to the figure a cruciform appear ance.
More often it is prolonged in the other direction — sometimes to three or four times the length of the lateral lines — presenting an unmistakable picture of a barbed arrow-head on a shaft.
The lateral lines are usually three or four inches in length, while the median line is always longer.
The incisions are clean and clear, the edges sharp and singularly firm, betraying a practiced hand and a powerful instrument.
On the supposition that these are intended for arrow-points, I propose for them the name of " cuspidiform petrogl^'phs."
This is descriptive of their actual appearance, and also indicates what they were doubtless designed to represent.
Granting this, we do not have to go far to ascertain the idea which this sign was intended to convey.
There can be little doubt but that the arrow signifies a warrior, or some related military conception.
This, in turn, throws light on other points in the archaeology of the Ohio region.
The inscribed rock at Newark is within about eight miles of a very remarkable series of works between the north fork of Licking River and Raccoon Creek.
One of these works is a mighty circular embankment, enclosing an area of thirty acres, now used as the fair grounds of Licking Co.
In the midst of this area, headed toward the only entrance, is an effigy mound, of large size, commonly supposed to represent an eagle.
At present, however, the alleged eagle has no head, and I could not see signs that it ever had had one.
The figure is, indeed, nothing else than one of these cuspidiform symbols on a gigantic scale.
It measures along the central elevation 210 feet, while the lateral lines, called the "wings," branch off about 100 feet from the limits of the central ridge.
The point of the arrow is directed precisely to the single gateway or opening of the enclosure.
, The inference which the presence of this gigantic delineation ot an arrow-head seems to justify, is that this enclosure was once dedicated to militar}ceremonies of some kind.
The inscribed rock on which my observations were made, is located about six miles from Newark, close to the bank of the Licking River.
It is a moderately hard sandstone, much eroded where fully exposed to the weather.
The bluff is about thirty feet high, and the summit overhangs the base to such an extent that it furnishes a natural shelter.
Many of the inscriptions have thus been preserved with great freshness of outline.
This rock shelter was also extensively used by generations of primitive hunters.
Excavations which I made, turned up numerous examples of their work in pottery and stone, and the fragments of the bones of animals used in their repasts.
The only previous examination of this inscription, for archaeological purposes, which I have heard of, is one by Dr. Salisbury, in 1859, the notes of which are in MS., in the library of the American Antiquarian Society.
A brief memorandum by him, on the subject, was also published in the Report of the Ohio centennial managers in 18T6.
2t8 proceedings of the academy of [1884.
November 4.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in tlie chair.
Twenty-one persons present.
A paper entitled " On the Behavior of Petrolatum in the Dij gestive Tract," by N. A. Randolph, M. D., was presented for publication.
Impression of the Figures on a " Meday Stick.'"
— Dr. D. G. Brinton exhibited a full-sized impression of the figures on a " Meday Stick," obtained from the Pottawattomies, by the eminent antiquary, Dr. E. H. Davis.
These sticks are used as mnemonic aids in repeating the chants in the '' Great Medicine Lodge."
the principal religious rite of the Algonkins.
The present stick is 19 inches long, 2| inches wide, and of hard wood.
The figures engraved upon it are over 500 in number, chiefly representing plants.
These figures are engraved with a knife, but the native name of such sticks points to a more primitive method.
It is massinahican, literally " a piece of wood marked with fire."
The characters inscribed are called kekitvin, which means marks or signs, and from which root are derived the words " to know," " to learn," and " to teach," in many Algonkin dialects.
The characters areof two kinds, notches, and drawings of objects.
The notclies are believed to indicate the musical time or rhythm of the chant, while the drawings suggest its words.
The text of several such songs has been printed.
They are usually to obtain success in the chase or restoration to health.
The latter appears to be the nature of the present song, judging from the numerous plants depicted.
This Meday stick illustrates an instructive fact constantly lost sight of by antiquaries.
The so-called, picture-writing of the Algonkin Indians never presented pictures.
There is no grouping, shading or pictorial arrangement of the figures.
There is no attempt at esthetic eflfect.
The single figures are not connected so as to evoke any artistic sentiment.
The intention was wholly apart from this, and where such appears, it is not true Algonkin art.
November 11.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Thirty-two persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication : — " Descriptions of New Species of North American Heterocera," by Herman Strecker. "
Some Notes on the Movements of the Androecium in Sunflowers," by Dr. Asa Gray. "
Observations on Cinna, with Description of a New Species," by F. Lamson Seribner.
Fired Stones and Prehistoric Implements.
— Dr. D. G. Brinton exhibited specimens of quartzite, sandstone and jasper, which had been subjected to the action of fire, and spoke of their bearing on certain archaological questions.
The most ancient evidence of a knowledge of fire is not the charcoal and ashes of primeval hearths, but stones showing the action of the element.
In France they have been found in considerable numbers in the tertiary deposits of Thenay, near Pontlevoy, belonging to the late miocene or early pliocene.
In South America, the brothers Jose and Fiorentino Ameghino have discovered them in a low stratum of the Pampas formation, believed to be referable to the interglacial epoch of the pleistocene.
The effects of fire on stones are quite distinct from those of other agents.
They are shown in discoloration, scaling, and peculiar forms of fracture.
Quartz becomes cloudy and opaque ; jasper loses its fresh yellow hue to turn a dull red, while sandstone forfeits the fresh lustre of its fracture, and shows brown and blackish.
Stones broken by fire present one of two characteristic appearances ; the one is called by French archaeologists Craquellage, the other Etonnement.
Quartzite illustrates the former, jasper the latter.
Graquellage presents a plane usually at about right-angles to the plane of cleavage; its surface rough, friable, and full of little pits and rounded eminences — like a face pitted with small-pox, to borrow the simile of Mortillet.
Etonnement is a splitting by flakes in the lines of percussion cleavage, but distinguishable from the latter by the absence of the bulb of percussion, and the splintering which often attends a blow.
The flake and its matrix are perfectly clean at all points of their edges.
Scaling is seen on the surface of sandstones subjected to fire.
Small scales are loosened and are detached by exposure, revealing the discolored layers beneath.
It is claimed by some of the French archaeologists that the very oldest implements used by man were stones thus fractured by fire.
This plan of bringing them to an edge, they saj^, preceded that of percussion.
This does not appear to be the case in America.
The implements of the Trenton gravels are of sandstone chiefly ; those of the interglacial of the upper Mississippi are of quartzite, neither of which fractures by Etonnement.
Whether the later residents of our soil ever used fire to aid their art-production in flint and jasper is uncertain.
The speaker had seen no specimens that conclusively showed that they did.
Cutaneous Absorption of Nicotine.
— Dr. N. A. Randolph described the results of a series of experiments performed by Mr. Samuel G. Dixon and himself, relative to the absorption of nicotine by the uninjured healthy skin of the living rabbit.
In these experiments only rabbits of ascertained good health were used.
The fur of the abdomen was carefully clipped (not shaved); sufficient time, usually seven days, being allowed to intervene between this operation and the application of the drug to the skin ; thus permitting any slight scratch made at this time to fully heal.
The absence of cutaneous lesion was further confirmed by close examination under a strong hand-magnifier.
The drug was then applied to the skin, no friction being used.
In order to preclude the possibility of its vaporization and subsequent absorption by the lung surface, the nicotine was placed upon an adhesive plaster, the backing of which was made of sheet rubber.
The plaster, with the drug in its centre, was then applied in the open air, on a windy day.
Difi"erent doses were applied ; thus, in one case, one drop of nicotine applied to the skin, caused death in five hours and eleven minutes.
In each of three cases a similar application of ten drops was fatal in respectivelj' one hundred and nine minutes, twenty-eight minutes, and thirty-six minutes.
In the fifth case, a similar application of fifteen drops of nicotine caused death in twenty-eight minutes.
Of the ante-mortem symptoms, contraction of the pupil was constant, and often appeared very quickly.
Other prominent symptoms were great trembling, with subsequent loss of muscular power in the extremities.
In one case, actual convulsions were noted, and in others, coldness of the skin and increased lachrymal and nasal secretion.
Immediately upon the death of two of the animals (after the tenand fifteen-drop doses respectively), blood was removed, defibrinated, and tested with mercuric chloride for the presence of nicotine in the manner detailed by Wormley (" Micro-Chemistry of Poisons").
In each, of these two instances, characteristic groups of crystals were found upon microscopic examination of the extract from the blood.
The following was ordered to be printed : — PROC, A, N.S, PHILA E.RS.R'TEL.
