PROLONGED LIFE OF INVERTEBRATES  NOTES ON THE AGE AND HABITS OF THE AMERICAN TARANTULA.
BY HENRY C. MCCOOK D. D. Until very lately little has been known concerning the possibilities of prolonged life among the lower orders of animals.
It is well known that the waste of life is very great in the natural conditions surrounding most inferior creatures so that the immense fecundity of insects and araneads for example is abundantly checked.
I have counted over eleven hundred eggs and young spiders in the single eggcocoon of the Bank Argiope Argiope riparia yet one of the rarest finds for an observer is a very young individual of this common species.
In efforts to breed spiders from the cocoon I have at various times seen colonies numbering one hundred or more dispersed from the maternal egg nest to the surrounding foliage of which during the year not a single survivor could be traced.
Bee keepers are well aware of the great mortality among working bees caused not only by disease and accidents but especially by those enemies which prey upon them.
Ants are quite as much perhaps even more exposed to loss from accidents the exigencies of weather and the appetites of various insectivorous animals.
There is therefore abundant occasion for the seemingly exhaustless fertility of the queen mothers of formicaries.
These queens probably have a longer life than the workers.
They are larger in size and apparently organized for more vigorous resistance of the influences which work for their destruction.
Moreover the instinct of the workers has provided a system of preservation by surrounding the queen with a guard of attendants which never leave her unprotected which care for all her wants and vigilantly separate her by a regular system of seclusion within the portals of the formicary from many influences which would prove hostile to health and fatal to life.
I.
Sir John Lubbock's Aged Ant Queen.
How long an ant queen may live in entirely natural habitat is unknown and perhaps cannot be determined.
But recently through the patience and ingenuity of Sir John Lubbock Ave have learned that under artificial protection both workers and queens of certain species may attain a great age.
Nearly six years ago I had the privilege of visiting this distinguished naturalist at his country seat High Elms Kent and examining under his personal direction his artificial formicaries and the mode in which they are preserved.
At that time I saw a queen of the Fuscous ant Formica fusca which was nearly eight years old.
During the past summer 1887 I again visited Sir John at his house in London and on inquiry after the aged queen which I supposed to be still living was informed that it had died the day before having at the time reached the wonderful age of more than thirteen years.
I was permitted to see this venerable queen as she lay in death on the floor of one of the wide chambers which the workers had excavated in the soil compacted between glass plates that bounded their formicary.
She was still attended by the circle of courtiers which according to my published observations are in the habit of waiting continually upon ant queens.
Some of these attendants I saw licking the dead queen or touching her with their antennae and making other demonstrations as though soliciting her attention or desiring to wake her out of sleep.
They do not appear to have discovered that she is really dead remarked Sir John.
And so indeed it seemed.
It was certainly a touching sight to witness these faithful attendants surrounding the dead body of one who had so long presided over the maternal destinies of the colony and seeking by their caresses to evoke the attention which never again could respond to their solicitations. Such experiments as the above clearly indicate that artificial environment may have a beneficial influence upon insects as well as domestic animals and that the interference of human intelligence may be a preservative factor as well as a destructive one in the lives of even our most lowly organized fellow creatures.
While awaiting with great interest the details of the life history of this venerable sovereign of the emmet world which Sir John Lubbock will doubtless publish I venture to note the simple fact of her prolonged life as an introduction to some facts in the same line of observation but relating to a spider.
II.
Long Life of a Spider.
Early in the year 1872 I received from Dr. Joseph Leidy a specimen of our common American species of the Theraphosoidse first described and known as Mygale Hentzii and popularly called the tarantula.
This animal was given to Prof. Leidy by a young friend and turned over to me with the request that at its death the specimen 1 Honey and Occident Anis Chap iv p. 41 and PI.
VI fig.
29.
' See note at end of paper.
should be returned to him. As the individual seemed to be in ffood health I preserved its life in order to gain information as to its habits and vital endurance.
It was first placed in a large glass fish globe on a bed of earth where it was kept for more than a year.
It was then transferred to a wooden box made with glazed slides and a sliding glass door at the top the whole being eighteen inches long twelve inches wide and ten high.
One end was filled with dry soil which was slightly compacted and heaped up  the other end was sparsely covered with earth.
There was thus presented a bit of level space for a water trough for exercise etc. and full opportunity for the spider to burrow should it be inclined to its natural tastes.
The animal was kept in this box until midsummer of the present year.
I last saw it early in July just prior to my departure for England.
On June 22nd 1887 I made this note  This spider which has been kept ever since 1882 is today in good health.
It is on the outside of the earth moundlet in its box looking hearty after the winter's fast.
It has had nothing to eat since October last at least eight months but has had water freely.
Some flies have been put into it lately but I do not know that they have been eaten.
The spider was then left in the care of my friend Professor Fronani who for several summers while at work in the Library hall of the Academy had kindly cared for it during my absence giving it water and feeding it with insects particularly grasshoppers or locusts.
On my return from abroad I was met at the Academy by the intelligence that my tarantula was dead.
It had descended into the buriow which for several years it had maintained close to the side of the box about the end of July and since then had not come up.
Looking into the box I could see against the glass what appeared to be the fragments of the moulted skin on one side of the cavity and on the other side the outlines of the creature's dead body.
Prof Leidy from whom the animal had been received and after whom I had named it a name being convenient for familiar reference happened to be in the Library hall at the time I took up the remains of the spider from its burrow.
We found the carcass already partly decomposed and being preyed upon by dermestid larvae.
Close beside it were the fragments of its cast skin.
It had evidently died shortly after moulting.
1 It was captured about the beginning of April 1882 at Hill's Ferry Stanislaus Co. California was kept in a bottle without food for two weeks then sent to Prof. G. E. H. Weaver at Media then a student in Swarthmore College.
Mr. Weaver fed it on beefsteak which it took readily.
Reckoning its death as having occurred at the close of July 1887 the spider was five years and three months in my possession.
I have not sufficient data to estimate accurately the rapidity of growth in this species but judging from such facts and indications as I have observed I do not hesitate to reckon the animal to have been from eighteen months to two years old when I received it from Dr. Leidy.
At the period of its death therefore it must have been at least seven years old and may have been eight.
It has thus attained the distinction of having reached the greatest age of any spider known to science.
How long this species and members of the Theraphosoidse generally live in their natural habitat is of course unknown.
I have no doubt that they live much longer than spiders of the other great sections or groups but am inclined to think that it is not usual for them to reach such on age as my tarantula Leidy.
In its case as in that of Sir John Lubbock's queen ant human protection probably aided to prolong life.
Such observations as have heretofore been made upon the age of spiders fall in with the general indications as to their vital endurance made by the prolonged age of this tarantula.
Blackwall the veteran British araneologist kept spiders of the species Tegenaria domestica and T. civilis to the age of four years. Moggridge made a calculation upon the age of trapdoor spiders based upon the average growth in the nests of the young for he established the fact which has subsequently been confirmed that the young spider instead of abandoning its nest enlarges it with its growth.
The conclusion of this calculation was that it took at least four years to produce a full size trapdoor nest and of consequence the architect must be at least that old.
The most recent information upon this point is given by Mr. Fredrick Enock in a paper published two years ago.
 This observer in an extended and interesting communication upon the habits of the British Atypus speaks of one individual which he had in his possession over three years and which judging from its size when first captured he puts at the age of six years.
Other examples which had been under observation for more than two years were well grown when first transferred to his artificial colony 1 Spiders of Great Britian and Ireland.
p. 8.
2 Moggridge.
Harvesting Ants and Trapdoor Spiders.
p. 127.
3 Tlie LifeHistory of Atyptis picens Sulz.
Transactions Entomological Society of London.
18So.
p. 416. and at the date of his paper June 1885 were still in good health.
He ventures the inference that Atypus is about four years in reaching maturity then retains her young for eighteen months under her care before turning them out to shift for themselves and after that lives in vigorous health for a period which he believes may sometimes reach the advanced age of ten years.
I may add here as in the same line of research that Dr. George H. Horn a distinguished authority in the Coleoptera has called my attention to the fact that a female of Cybister roeselii was preserved for eight years of continuous life by Dr. David Sharp.
As has been stated my tarantula died in the act of or in consequence of casting its skin.
It has usually been accepted as a fact that the final moult of spiders is made j ust before the attainment of maturity.
Unfortunately the decayed condition of the carcass does not permit me to determine the question in the case of this particular individual.
But these interesting queries are suggested did the artificial conditions of the spider's life so influence its organism as to retard the functions that result in the act of moulting 
Are we therefore to consider this final moult accomplished at the age of seven years or thereabouts to have been abnormal as to the time of its occurrence 
Or may we infer that this represents the normal pei'iodicity of moulting and of consequence that the mature spiders of this family which are so frequently taken in various parts of the earth are all of them as old as the one whose history I have been noting 
III.
Habits of the American Tarantula 1.
Moulting and its dangers.
During its confinement Leidy shed its skin several times.
The first moult occurred sometime in August 1882.
I had been absent on my usual summer vacation and returning August 31st saw the animal lying on the soil about the middle of its glass nest with its feet gathered together looking dull gray and faded out apparently dead.
I shook the globe.
No response was made by any action and as I was at the time in a great hurry I left without more careful observation concluding that the spider was dead.
I was not able to visit it again until the fifth day of September following.
I threw off the cover of the globe and put my hand in to take out the dead body wliich lay apparently in the same position in order to preserve it in alcohol.
As I touched it the animal leaped to its feet and as I hastily withdrew my hand thankful for the danger which I had escaped for the creature bears 374 1887. a poisonous fang it presented itself quite changed in appearance.
The body was of a fresh bright color the cophal thorax a clean whitish gray the head and fangs dark brown.
The abdomen was black with brown hairs covering it.
The legs were black Avith yellowish brown hairs and spines.
I at once understood that the spider when first seen was in the torpid condition which usually imiuediatel' precedes the act of moulting.
In the interval between my visits it had cast off its skin which I found lying in a tolerably complete condition on one side of the glass.
The spinnerets and abdomen were entirely unbroken the spider having evidently escaped therefrom by pulling its abdomen forward.
Fig.
1.
'SiJsfcs' 1.
Moult of Tarantula sliovving mode of Escape The dorsum of the cephalthorax was attached to the upper part of the abdomen and the sternum to the lower part showing that the fore part of the skin had cracked around the median line of the cephalthorax.
The feet and legs were attached to the sternum and on one side the casts were entirely complete.
The death of this tarantula is another example of a fact which I have previously observed that the act of moulting is frequently attended by dangers of one kind or another to spiders.
It is common to find specimens without one or more limbs also with distorted and abbreviated limbs.
I have frequently found males lacking several legs.
The theory commonly adopted is that in most of these cases the loss has resulted from conflicts perhaps among rival lovers in attendance upon the same female.
Something of loss may be attributed to this cause but I am satisfied that in a much larger degree losses and malformations are due to the accidents of moulting.
One example I may cite the loss of two limbs experienced by a large tarantula which I had kept under observation  for during the last few years I have had a number of these large creatures in artificial nests.
This spider lay upon its back during part and on its side during the remainder of the time of moulting.
The skin was cast by a succession of movements of the body or parts of the body recurring at regular intervals reminding one of labor pains among mammals.
For some reason two of the legs refused to separate from the skin and after a prolonged struggle they Avere broken off at the coxae and remained within the moult.
One foot of another leg shared the same fate.
This
moult occurred in the spring during the latter aprt of August of the same year the spider again moulted.
The moult was a perfect cast of the animal the skin spines claws and the most delicate hairs all showing and their corresponding originals appeared bright and clean upon the spider.
When the cast off skin was removed the dissevered members were lacking thereon but on the spider itself new limbs had appeared perfect in shape but smaller than the corresponding ones on the opposite side of the body.
The dissevered foot was also restored.
The rudimentary leffs had evidently been folded up within the coxae and appeared at once after the moult rapidly filling out in a manner perhaps somewhat analogous to the expansion of wings in insects after emerging. It is possible that my tarantula Leidy was too much exhausted by long previous fasting to endure the severe strain which evidently is laid upon the organism in the act of moulting although judging from the disjecta membra of the skin recovered from the burrow it had succeeded in casting them all off without any mutilation.
The Spring of 1887 was a backward one and I experienced great difficulty in procuring insects for food from the immediate neighborhood.
The annual supply of grasshoppers and locusts upon which I had relied came very late.
Perhaps had the spider been strengthened by a few week's generous feeding previous to its last moult it might still have been alive.
2.
Hoiu to keep spiders alive.
I may sa' here that my experience in keeping other large spiders is that there is quite as much danger from overfeeding as underfeeding.
I have found the best success 1 See Proceedings Academy of Natural Sciences Philadelphia 1883. p. 190.
376 1887. by giving a generous supply of living food during the summer and early autumn and withholding food almost entirely during the remainder of the year.
I was particular however to keep a vessel continually supplied with fresh water within the box.
Spiders rejuire water quite as much as other animals and failure to keep them supplied will be fatal to health and life.
I have sometimes succeeded in tempting a tarantula to suck the juice of a bit of raw beef but the only food that can be relied upon is living insects and the spiders appear to be able to lay up within the four or five months of summer enough nourishment in connection with a free supply of water to last them during the entire year.
They do not become torpid in the winter time it should be said but remain active throughout the entire season provided they are kept in a room heated to a moderate temperature.
If exposed to severe cold they are soon benumbed but quickly recover when again brought into a warm atmosphere.
When the spider was disposed to feed an insect was seized with the fore legs palps and mandibles which rapidly conveyed it to the mouth against which it was held by the palps which also turned the carcass as the spider had occasion aided by the mandibles the latter crushing the victim meanwhile.
Fig.
2.
On one occasion Tarantula feeding upon a locust.
The white Silken rug shown.
while in the act of feeding upon a locust a second individual approcached near enough to be seized It was put upon the ground where it was held down until the spider moving slowly around overspun and swathed it evidently reserving it for future use.
3.
Spinning and Spinning tvork.
The central space of the little mound in the box was usually kept covered with a white sheeted web suggesting the idea of a rug upon which the creature loved to rest.
If this were removed or covered over with dirt it was restored by the spider in a little while.
In the act of spinning the long inferior spinnerets were curved upward and from the spinning tubes along the exterior part gave out numerous fine threads.
These were attached to the ground by the downward motion of the spinnerets.
The abdomen Avas lifted up the threads were thus drawn out the downward motion repeated and simultaneously the end of the abdomen with the spinnerets attached received a lateral motion which caused the threads to be spread over the surface of the ground.
At the same time the animal slowly moved its whole body around as upon a pivot thus dispersing the silk over a circular patch of the surface about equal in diameter to twice the length of its body or to the spread of its legs.
See Fig.
2.
At times a web much more open in texture would be found spread more or less freely over nearly the whole surface of the soil.
It has been said that when the white central rug became soiled by dirt or food debris it was soon over spread with a clean layer.
In course of time the top of the mound in Leidy's box became thus covered with a thick mass of intermingled silk and clay which I easily removed and have preserved intact.
The piece represents nearly the compass of the central rug and is a curious compound of intermingled soil and silk.
It is a fact that the remarkable hinged door which the trapdoor sjider attaches to her burrow is made up of alternate layers of silk and soil.
If one were inclined to speculation or to a scientific use of the imagination he might raise the inquiry may not the the trapdoors spiders have found in some such accidentally formed texture the original suggestion of her mudandsilk door
On the other hand one might also wonder why the tarantula and in fact other spiders with equal facilities of like nature have not developed some trace of the same habit 
Two locusts were once placed in the box at a part where the threads were numerous one of which was soon entangled in the spinning work and began to struggle for freedom.
Tarantula was 25 378 1887. on the mound about ten inches distant and moved slowly towards the insect creeping crouching evidently directed by the agitated web.
It was very tardy in its approach and my attention was unavoidably diverted but shortly afterward I saw the spider devouring the locust.
The question was raised does the tarantula in natural site take its prey in this way by lines spread before its den or elsewhere upon the surface of the ground 
Mr. Bates appears to have the ojjinion that the web of the large Brazilian tarantula is used to capture prey at least he speaks of birds entangled therein and fed upon by the spider. The thick texture of the sheeted web is produced by the act of beating downward with the long spinnerets repeated motions of which up and down make little loops which thicken over the surface and are beaten down and then smoothed over by the spinnerets.
Fig.
3.
The action does not greatly differ from that of all other Fig.
3.
Spinning the rug use of the long spinnerets spiders while engaged upon similar spinning work.
In the act of spinning tarantula frequently reaches one hind claw to the spinnerets and makes a series of rapid strokes then stretches out the foot as though carrying the thread with it.
It would appear to be intended thus to draw out the silk from the spinning tubes but the motion was so rapid that I never could exactly make out its full purpose or determine whether it might not be a mode of clearing 1 The Naturalist on the Amazon ii p. 58. out or rearranging the spinning tubes and surrounding spines in other words the adjustment of the spinning machinery.
4.
Character of the Nest and mode of burrowing.
The opinion prevails largely that the tarantula Mygale Hentzii makes a trapdoor nest and it has not been an uncommon thing for me to meet tourists who had purchased in California specimens of trapdoor nests and at the same time a specimen of the large tarantula which the sellers claimed had made it. I am satisfied by my long continued observations of these creatures in confinement as well as by authentic reports from various persons that they make no trapdoor and that their only nest is a burrow in the ground.
Dr. J. Rowland of Media Pa. who has several times visited Los Angelos informs me that the tarantula is there found in holes covered with a slight web.
A little mound of fresh earth is thrown up around the surface edge of the hole which is merely covered over by a delicate web.
There is no trapdoor to this den which is a burrow about an inch and a quarter in diameter extending downward from ten to twenty inches in depth.
The boys bring the spiders up by pouring water down the holes.
The great creatures burst out of the open gate spread their long legs and hurry away and are then easily captured.
According to Mr. G. W. Holstein who has frequently observed them in Texas they live in holes about one and an eighth inch in diameter which appear to have a white silky lining and are generally found in sandy soil.
One burrow dug up by his brother was ten inches deep was destitute of a lining but at the bottom there appeared some sort of a nest.
When disturbed the creatures run into holes formed by the weathering out of fossils c. At Los Angelos the animals are found at times occupying gopher holes.
1 Professor Spencer F. Baird the late distinguished and lamented Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution entertained this opinion and when I once questioned ii thought he had specimens in the museum at Washington that would prove it.
He subsequently wrote me  I did not find in any of the California nests any remains of spiders at all but we have two from Jamaica which still have large hairy spiders in them.
These nests are mucli more slender than those from Callfoinia.
I shall be pleased to show them to you whenever you visit Washington I cannot send them as they are too fragde for transmission.
I have not yet had the opportunity of examining these specimens but think that they will be found to belong to the genus Nemesia or Cteniza and are not true tarantulas.
Mr. Bates describes spiders of this family Mygale Blondil and M. avicularia as inhabiting broad tubular galleries smoothly lined with silken webs.
The galleries are two inches in diameter and run in a slanting direction about two feet. Again he speaks of them as spreading a thick web beneath a deep crevice in trees and having their cells under stones. Once more in alluding to their diversified habits he says that some species construct among the tiles or thatch of houses dens of closely woven web which in texture very much resembles fine muslin.
From these domiciles they invade the house apartments.
Others according to Mr. Bates build similar nests in trees. I believe that it will be found that the creatures that burrow in the earth are identical with those which spread sheeted webs among the trees.
Numbers of tarantulas come to our port Philadelphia in fruit vessels and are often found in the great pendants of bananas to which they had no doubt resorted as a convenient field for capturing prey and were themselves captured and shipped hidden away among the clusters of fruit.
In the case of the spider Leidy the only effort made at nest building was a rude burrow which was excavated against one side of the box and which in the course of time was extended downward to the bottom of the box and laterally along the bottom either way thus forming an irregular cavity.
Into this it frequently descended dividing its time between the cave and the outside surface.
This burrow was entirely destitute of a silken lining although occasionally the opening at the surface would be overspun with a thin sheet of spinning work.
I have seen the same habit in other individuals of the species kept in confinement.
The only attempt at a nest ever observed by me has been this burrow with an occasional sheeted closure and rarely a slight silken lining of the interior of the burrow.
I believe therefore that the popular theory that the tarantula makes a trapdoor is without foundation in fact and that its ordinary habitat is a plain burrow like that made by most Lycosids.
The mode of making the burrow was well observed by me at various times.
In the act of digging the spider first uses the two leglike palps the digital brushes of which are well adapted for that 1 Bates The Naturalist on tlie Amazon Vol.
ii p. 58.
2 id.
Vol.
i p. 161.
3 id.
Vol.
i p. lOG.
service.
Then the two front feet are brought into phiy to gather up the loose pellets of soil and scrape them into a ball.
The first and iy 'jr 
Sslji Fil.
4.
Tarantula digging up and gallieiing a hall of eaith to carry away second pairs of legs now close up around and under the balled mass thus compressing it inside the mandibles.
Fig.
4.
When the pellets have thus been gathered and squeezed into a mass they are held within the extended mandibles tiie palis in the meantime girdling them at the side and beneath and so are carried away from the burrow to the dumping ground.
Fig.
5.
I never observed any scratching and scraping the dirt Fig.
5.
Mode of carrying excavated soil.
backward in the fashion of a dog digging in a rabbit burrow which is also the action of ants bees and wasps when excavating the earth.
Always the pellets were deliberately loosened as I have indicated squeezed together into a ball and carried off.
During the act of digging and indeed quite habitually during all actions such as eating etc. the 382 1887. spider kept her spinnerets curved over the end of the abdomen with a diverging ray of threads issuing therefrom and attached to the surface beneath.
5.
Toilet Habits.
After digging the palps were used to wipe off the fore parts of the body very much as a cat uses her paw for a like purpose.
The fore legs were placed against the palps and were cleansed by rubbing the two together.
The toilet was also accomplished by overlapping one leg with the other the second leg over the third for example and then rubbing the two as if a man were to scratch his leg by drawing the inner surface of one along the front surface of the other.
The first leg was thus rubbed against the second of course being pressed down upon it meanwhile.
The jalp too was thrown back to the first leg which it brushed off in the same manner.
After digging in its burrow Leidy was always quite sure to cleanse its person and by reason of its size the use of its palps in wiping off the fore part of its body presented a most amusing likeness to the familiar action of pussy when washing ofi' her face with her paws.
6.
The character of the egg cocoon.
A large female tarantula was sent to me from the West Indies and arrived at the Academy during a prolonged absence.
She died before my return.
and was preserved 'r '  f .
'tL  ''' Fifj.
J. Cocoon and eggs of Tarantula.
in spirits  but afforded me an opportunity which I had long desired of determining the egg cocoon made by this family the Theraphosoidffi.
While cleaning out the box in which she had been sent I observed a piece of spinning work within which proved to be an abandoned cocoon.
It was muck flattened but when inflated showed a hollow sisheroid composed of thick silken cloth somewhat soiled on the outside but within clean and white.
It measured two inches along the longer axis and 1 1 inch along the shorter one.
It was empty of young whose first moults however were within the cocoon as were also a few unhatched eggs which are yellowish spheres two millimeters in diameter.
Three small openings in the case showed where the spiderliugs had escaped.
Both cocoon and eggs are shown natural size in the accompanying figure.
Fig.
6   The interior of this cocoon was without any flossy lining or padding resembling thus the egg sacs of the Lycosoidse generally.
A curious flap overlapped the cocoon at one side whose use I could not conjecture unless it may have served to attach the object to the mother's body or perhaps it was simply a remnant of material which had remained after the eggs were rolled uj within the silken rug upon which they are probably deposited after the manner which I have shown to exist in the genus Lycosa The janitor who received the box containing this spider and placed it in my room was at the time new in his position and did not understand the importance of observing all the particulars in the habits of living creatures sent to the Academy.
He therefore failed to make any notes but told me when questioned that he believed that the cocoon was attached to the lower part of the body of the spider when it arrived.
No doubt this is a correct observation and we may assume with some degree of certainty that the large egg sac of the Theraphosids is carried by the mother lashed to the spinnerets at the apex of the abdomen jrecisely as in the case of Lycosids whose well known habit is familiar to every frequenter of our fields.
This cocoon is exhibited in my collection of Aranead architecture deposited in the Academy and is the only one so far as I have been able to learn exhibited in any similar institution.
Termeyer speaks of cocoons of the Mygalida3 of South America Q'Aranea avicularia even greater than the above.
They are three inches long by one 1 See Proceedings Academy Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 1884.
Page 138 my note on How Lycosa Fabricates Her Round Cocoon.
wide and are placed iu the fissures on the trunks of trees.
They coiitaiii thousands of eggs.
This extraordinary size of the cocoon had made the inhabitants who do not observe carefully imagine that this spider would take the cocoon of the bombice moth del Guyavo Janus Linn.
and having destroyed or eaten the chrysalis would place her own eggs therein and then artificially close the hole by which she had penetrated it.
One of these cocoons weighs as much as six cocoons of the silk worm when they are washed and as much as three or four after having been washed.'
Madam Merian who first recorded a report that the Theraphosoidse prey upon small birds must have observed the cocoon of these spiders as it seems to me.
She indeed speaks of them as having their domicile in a large round nest resembling the cocoon of a caterpillar but the plate to which she refers is a fairly accurate figure of a female tarantula with a large oval cocoon attached to her abdomen in the waj usual to Lycosids. I have the opinion that the eg cocoon of the spider was mistaken by Madamoiselle Merian or her informants for a domicile.
At all events we may consider that it is fairly well assured that iu her cocooning habits the female tarantula throughout most or perhaps all species closely resembles the Lycosoidse and the resemblance probably extends to all the Territelariie.
In other words the Theraphosid cocoon is 1 round or ovoid 2 is carried about with the mother attached to her body or kept under her care and 3 the young for a period longer or shorter remain with their mother.
The affinity between these two great groups of araneads is also marked in their nesting habits both burrow in the ground a cylindrical tunnel or shaft within which they domicile sometimes lining it more or less completely with silk. 7.
Attitude at rest and in attack.
While resting upon its silken rug a favorite position of the tarantula was as follows On one side the first leg and the last leg were well extended the feet were lifted a little distance above the ground.
The second and third feet were 1 Communications Essex Institute Vol.
v. 1866 67 p. 61.
Researches and Experiments upon silk from Spiders and upon their reproductions by Raymond Miria de Termcyer.
Translated from the Italian and revised by Burt G. Wilder.
Di'sertation sur la Generation et les Transformations des insects de Surinam.
Mariae Sibillae Merian.
Ala Hoye nidocxxvi.
 Fit.
18 and explication. '
I purpose tracing this resemblance more in detail in a subsequent paper on Nesting Habits of the American Purseweb Spider Atypus niger.
placed upon the ground.
On the opposite side the legs rested upon the surface.
One of the palps was lifted up  the other touched the earth.
Sometimes when slightly alarmed or its attention was attracted by any noise or agitation all the fore feet the two pairs on each side as well as the palps would be raised from the ground and slightly thrown back.
If the alarm or excitement increased the whole fore part of the body would gradually be raised the legs and palps thrown backward in a curved position and the mandibles also bent back slightly separated and ready for striking.
In this rampant attitude the body rested upon the two hind pairs of legs which were rather extended and on the third pair which were slightly bent and pressed firmly against the soil.
As they were more or less stiffened and straightened the body would be thrown backward or depressed.
This was the position invariably taken by the tarantula when angry and from this position it would spring forward and strike any object whicli excited its wrath or which it wished to destroy.
Having struck out which was done by bringing down palps fore paws and fangs together upon the victim the creature sank back into its rampant position.
If so inclined it could rapidly repeat this movement.
The whole attitude was an admirable expression of anger and readiness to strike for defence or offence.
In the fine muscular exhiliration imjarted by the creature's passion the limbs assumed such graceful curves and the pose of the body showed so happy a combination of vigor and ease that the formidable spider really looked beautiful.
It could stand in this rampant attitude with motionless rigidity for many minutes.
Among these notes of the general habits of the tarantula I may place the following also communicated to me by Mr. Holstein.
His observation of the tarantulas in Texas convinces him that they are very irritable.
They will jump at least ten inches if they are excited thereto by sticks although they are otherwise not inclined to be troublesome.
He has known them to jump almost as high as his horse's knee.
In the sandy country along the Colorado River in Texas they are very numerous and one became so enraged one day as to run up the horse of one of the company as far as the shoulder before it was knocked off.
Some Texans say that it is an infallible sign of rain to see these creatures crawling about freely.
I have myself captured them in Texas without difficulty but was never able to find anything satisfactory as to their field habits except the fear which they show when the famous wasp popularly called the tarantula killer Pompilus formosus happens to be in the neighborhood.
The excited haste with which the huge spider hurries off into hiding when one of these formidable hymenopters is near is a very striking sight. 1 The following note was received from the author of the above paper just as the printed pages were going to press and work thereon has been stopped in order to admit the explanation.
The Editor.
Dr. Edward J. Nolan Dear Sir I have this morning received a note from Sir John Lubbock dated January 6th in which he says My old ant queen is still alive but I fear a little stiff.
I am not able to explain the discrepancy between this statement and the account given of the apparent death of the same insect in my paper page 370.
It is evident however that both Sir John and myself were deceived by what must have been a transient suspension of activity.
I saw the ant and carefully observed it for five minutes or more and am confident that it had the undoubted appearance of death.
Sir John must have been laboring under the same mistake for at least a day.
I have no explanation of the phenomenon which thus deceived one of the most careful observers of emmet habits in England to say nothing of myself.
I await anxiously the explanation for which I have written of this apparent resurrection but in the meantime am desirous that some statement shall be got into or attached to my paper to modify in accordance with present facts what I therein say.
If the work has not too far progressed to allow this will you please see that this note or the substance thereof is inserted at the end of the paper.
Very truly yours Henry C. McCook.
DESCEIPTION OF TWO NEW SPECIES OE FISHES FROM SOUTH AMERICA.
BY DAVID STARR JORDAN.
Cristiceps eigenmanni sp.
nov. Head 4 in length to base of caudal  depth 4.
D. IIIXXIX 2  A.
27 or 28.
Scales in lateral line about 80.
Type No.
12556 M. C. Z.
Body rather stout compressed.
Eye nearly twice as long as the sharp snout.
Maxillary reaching to about opposite front of pupil.
Tentacle on top of head small shorter than pupil.
Hook on shouldergirdle obsolete the structure as in Labrosomus.
First dorsal rather low scarcely joined to second  soft dorsal of two very evident soft rays.
Scales very small.
Pectoral a little shorter than head.
Color in spirits brown much mottled some dark crossbars especially distinct on dorsal and anal  five of these on second dorsal one on first dorsal one on base of caudal six on anal.
Caudal and pectorals pale finely barred.
No dark ocellus on dorsal or anal.
The type of this species 2 inches in length was dredged by the Hassler off Bermeja Head in Northeastern Patagonia Lat.
41 17m.
S  Long.
63 W.
It is in good condition and it is numbered 12556 on the register of the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
I have named the species for my former assistant Mr. Carl H. Eigenmann who has contributed a good deal to our knowledge of the fishes of tropical America.
The species resembles Auchenopterus Cremnobates marmoratus but the scales are much smaller than in Aucheiiojoterus.
Mycteroperca xenarcha.
sj.
nov. Head 2f in length to base of caudal  depth 3.
D. XI.
16.
A.
Ill 11.
Scales 110 to 115.
Length of specimen especially described 24198 Museum of Comparative Zoology from James Island Galapagos seven inches.
Allied to 3fycfe702erca bonaci and Mycteroperca falcata.
Body rather deep and compressed  head compressed with rather short sharp snout which is 4J in head  profile depressed above eye.
Mouth large the maxillary reaching beyond eye 2to in head.
Lower canines small  upper canines two in number strong scarcely directed forward.
Eye small 62 in head.
Preorbital narrow f width of eye.
Interorbital area flattish its width 6 in head.
Nostrils small the posterior scarcely the larger separated from the anterior by one diameter.
Angle of preopercle scarcely salient but provided with coarser teeth  a rather sharp notch above it.
Gill rakers moderate.
X18 Scales moderate scarcely ctenoid.
Dorsal spines low the outline of the spinous dorsal gently convex the fourth spine longest 3 in head.
Soft dorsal high its outline angular the tenth ray produced 31 in head.
Anal fin formed as in M. faleata its seventh ray jroduced 2 in head its posterior outline concave.
Caudal subtruncate the outer rays slightly produced.
Pectoral If in head.
Color in spirits plain dark olivaceous the edges of the fins scarcely darkei.
Several specimens of this species from the Galapagos Islands are in the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
These were mixed with specimens of the more common Mycteroperca olfax from the same locality.
Other specimens 10061 M. C.
Z.
are from Payta Peru.
Mycteroperca xenarcha resembles M. olfax in form and color.
In M. olfax however the nostrils are close together the postei'ior some three times the diameter of the anterior  the second and third dorsal spines are elevated about half higher than the fourth.
Both species have the angular anal fin as in M. faleata a character also shown in less degree by M. acutirostris and 31. tigris.
NOTE ON ACHIEUS LORENTZI.
BY DAVID STARR JORDAN.
In the review of the Pleuronectidse of America and Europe published by Jordan and Goss in the Report of the U. S. Fish Commission for the current year mention is made of a species of Sole from Uruguay described by Dr. Weyenbergh under the name of Achirus lorentzi.
This description was at that time not accessible to us.
Through the kindness of Senor Augustin Pendola Secretary of the National Museum of Buenos Ayres a copy has been recently sent to me.
As the paper is very difficult of access I have thought it well to reprint the description in these Proceedings.
Achirus Lorentzii Weyenbergh.
Actas de la Academia Nacional de Ciencias Exacta.s Buenos Aires Tom.
III.
Entr.
I. p.
13.
Achirus lorentzii Weyenbergh.
Esta nueva especie de la familia des los Pleuronectoideos tiene alguna semejanza con la especie figurada en el Atlas del viaje de D'Orbigny con el nombre de Achirus lineatus Lac.
 pero las diferencias sin embargo son bastante grandes.
La aleta dorsal no se extiende en al Achirus Lorentzii como sucede en al A. lineatus hasta el labio superior de la boKi 6 hasta la nariz sino imicamente hasta la altura del fin de la fisura agallar  su forma tambien es diferente.
En A. lineatus esta aleta se aumente poco a poco de manera que la parte posterior tiene mas 6 menos el doble de la parte anterior formando uno linea regularmente encorvada.
En A. Lorentzii la parte posterior es igual a la anterior enanchiindose ambas regularmente hasta tomar la parte miis ancha una forma aguda hacift al medio y como dirigiendose los rayos todos a este punto.
El nilmero de estos es 40.
En A. lineatus la aleta anal se extiende hasta la fisura agallar y presenta la misma forma regularmente corvada.
En A. Lorentzii la forma de la aleta anal es la misma que la de la aleta dorsal  su parte aguda y mas larga se encuentra un poquito mas a la cola y esta aleta continua solamente hasta dos cent distante de la fisura agallar.
El numero de sus rayos es 38.
El color de la superficie derecha es como el de A. lineatus de manera que puede llamarse muy bien color sepia oscura.
Las manchas negras son menos grandes y menos oscuras que en A. lineatus y las escamas un poco mas grandes.
El color del lado ciego es bianco lo que acontece casi siempre en esta familia.
Una otra diferencia notable es que A. Lorentzii tiene aletas ventrales rudimentarias y pequenas pero bastante distintas de lo cual no se nota nada en la fig.
de A. lineatus de D'Orbigny Los pelos de la barba son menos desarrollados en nuestro especie y le faltan los apendices en el labio superior que se ven en la mencionada figura de A. lineatus.
La boca es encorvada mas rectangularraente en nuestra especie y los ojos son mas pequenos y mas esfericos encontrandose el ojo infei'ior que es mas chico perfectamente en el angulo de la corvadura locale.
Las lineas transversales que ban dada origen al nombre de A. lineatus se encuentran tambicn en nuestro especie pero son mucho menos anchas y a pesar de que el niimero siempre parece el misura no hay una regularidad muy constante 6 tipica en la distribucion de estas lineas in en sus corvaduras.
La linea lateral es mas gruesa y mas recta en A. Lorentzii que en A. lineatus y en esta dicha linea se encorva mucho mas por la parte de arriba y hacia la cabeza que en nuestra especie.
Los extremos purpureos que se ven en la parta superior de las aletas dorsales y anales de A. lineatus.
y en su aleta caudal no se encuentran en A. Lorentzii en 6ste tales partes son solamente un poco mas claras que lo demas de las aletas.
El numero de rayos en la aleta caudal es 19.
En la membrana de las aletas se ven ambas especias los mismas pequenas manchas negras.
El tamano mayor que conozco de mi especie es de dos decimetros de largo desde la barba hasta la extremidad de la cola  14 centimetros de ancho entre las dos extremidades agudas de la parte mas aucha de las aletas dorsal y anal.
Parte mas gruesa del cuerpo 18 milimetros.
He encontrado este pescado en las aguas al rededor de Santa Fe pero en el Parana mismo.
Tambien lo he recibido del Uruguay.
Me parece que 6sta es la primera especie de la interesante familia de los Pleuronectoideos que ha sido encontrada en agua dulce pues todas las que conocemos hasta ahora viven en el mar 6 en gulfos y bocas que estan en comunicacion directa con el mar  es decir en agua salada 6 salobre.
He dedicado esta especie al sabio botanioo y celebre viajero alemen Profesor Dr. D. P. G. Lorentz antes mi colega en esta Universidad por haber sido 61 el primero que fijo mi atencion sobre la existencia de esta especie en nuestro pais.
This species seems to be a valid one apparently allied to Achirus lineatus but distinguished if Dr. Weyenbergh has counted correctly by the small number of the fin rays.
D. 40 A.
38.
Dr. Giinther has identified it with.
A chir us mentalis a species with D. 66 A.
48 but has given no reason for so doing.
Supplementary note.
In our Review of the Pleuronectida we overlooked Achirus fischeri Soha fischeri Steindachner Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Fluszfische SudAmerkas 1879 13.
 fi'om Rio Mamone a tributary of the Rio Bayano near Panama.
This seems to be a valid species allied to Achirus fonsecensis but with D. 61 A.
44 and the right pectoral of only a single ray.
In this connection I may notice that the species called Ftagusia' of which the development has been traced by Prof. Alexander Agassiz Proc.
Am.
Acad.
Arts Sci.
1878 XIV PI.
10 f.
171.
is not a Ftagusia i. e. Sympkurus nor is it a Sole at all but the young of some Platophyrs apparently PL ocellatus.
Thus far nothing is certainly known of the development of the Soles.
392 proceedings of the academy of 1887.
December 6.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twentysix persons present.
The death of Evan Randolph a member was announced.
The origin of the Grassy Prairies.
Mr. Meehan said that in 1871 he had offered to the Academy some facts to show that the views of the origin of the prairies at that time generally accepted could not be sound and he then suggested some points that must have had considerable influence in bringing about this treeless condition.
Among these points he had named the annual prairie fires of the Indians.
Given a sheet of grass to be annually burned over and forests flanking it trees obviously could not extend far.
Young sprouts from a tree stump would not flower.
It took a seedling tree or sprouts from a stump to persist in growth for a number of years before its flowering stage is reached.
Hence though trees should spring up on a giassy prairie the annual burning to the ground preventing the sprouts from reaching maturity would be an insujoerable bar to the surrounding forests encroaching far on the area of the prairie.
A further consideration since that time made it evident that tree seeds could scarcely get a chance to grow at all in these grassy places.
He had studied the socalled balds or open grassy places on mountain tops and sides surrounded on all sides by forests where there had been no annual fires and yet no trees.
He referred particularly to such spots on Roan Mountain North Carolina.
There would be open spaces covered by a thick matted sod the chief grass composing it being Danthonia compressa.
Sjsruce Fir Oak and representatives of other genera surrounded them on all sides.
Though the trees may have been fifty or even a hundred years old the grassy outline had evidently been definitely fixed years back and had not since been encroached upon until these later times.
Since cattle had been permitted to browse young trees could be seen here and there springing up.
If the browsing continued trees would eventually cover the balds.
In the past seeds falling on the thick matted grass could not grow.
There would be too much light and too little moisture so far from the ground.
Should a seed sprout under such circumstances the radicle would dry up before it pushed through the thick mass of grass to the necessary earth.
Browsing cattle kept down the grass and gave the seeds a clmnce to reach the ground and their hoofs would often make the ground bare and even tread the seeds beneath the surface.
Though eaten to the ground the trees would sprout again some get stronger and larger and some eventually get to be trees finally shading and killing out the lightloving grass.
While annual fires certainly prevented trees spreading over grassy areas we could now account for their nonexistence even as young seedling plants.
Our own prairies afforded evidence of the soundness of these views.
There would often be seen elevated peninsularlike arms stretching from the woody area into the grassy basins or even little islands of elevated ground in the midst of the flat sea of soddy land covered by trees of various kinds.
These elevations by reason of drouth lighter soil or other sjecial conditions were unfavorable for the growth of the thick mass of herbaceous vegetation that possessed the land below.
The seeds could not only sprout and become trees but the absence of much grassy undergrowth saved them from serious eflTects from fire on lower prairie ground.
There could be no doubt these considerations fully accounted for the perpetuity of the grassy areas and the inability of the forests to encroach thereon.
If we are now asked how these extensive areas were given over to grass in the first place we may safely reply that the trees were not there to dispute with it for the possession of the ground or they would have conquered.
We may imagine the prairie region as in a state of transition from the paludose to the limose state with ligneous or arborescent vegetation on the higher lands many miles away.
The tufty grasses would undoubtedly take possession long before their woody neighbors could come down from the hills and spy out the land.
The struggle for life would be at the boundaries where the two forces met.
The tiees could not gain rapid advances but by the overshadowing of their branches would weaken the grass beneath and thus by slow approaches gradually conquer their weaker neighbors.
In meadows where cattle kept the coarse grass down or where briars or light bushes kept tough grass from spreading or where the ground was too gravelly or sandy or the native grasses not of a close tufty character trees found no obstruction whatever in their endeavor to take possession of the soil.
December 13.
The President Dr. Jos.
Leidy in the chair.
Twentythree persons present.
Botlarvae in the Terrapin.
Prof. Leidy remarked that the habits of a naturalist often led him to observe things in our daily life which usually escape the notice of others.
In our food he had frequent occasion to detect parasites which he preferred to reject but which are unconsciously swallowed by others.
While he liked a herring he never ate one without first removing the conspic uously coiled worms on the surface of the rows and he had repeatedly extracted from a piece of black bass or a shad a thread worm which others would not distinguish from a vessel or a nerve.
While he did not object to the little parasitic crab of the oyster he made it a point to remove the equally frequent leech from the clam.
It was in a piece of ham he was eating that he first 26 noticed the trichina which was no doubt' one of the causes that led Moses to declare the pig to be unclean  and in the hundred tapeworms he had examined from our fellow citizens during the past twenty five years he had ascertained that they had all been derived from rare beef.
He continued in a visit to Charleston S. C. before the late war at an evening entertainment among other viands were nicely browned slices of the drumfish Pogonias chromis.
A friend informed him that some portions were more gelatinous and delicate than others and heljjed him to what was supposed to be one of such.
On cutting into it he had observed imbedded in the flesh a soft mass which appeared of enigmatic character.
The following day he procured from market a drumfish on the dissection of which he found imbedded in the tail several eggshaped masses about three inches long and less than an inch thick which proved to be a large coiled worm Acanthorhynchus reptans This it was that gave delicacy to the dainty and in this instance the parasite seems to enhance the excellence of the food.
At another evening entertainment nearer home he partook of some stewed terrapins.
Taking into his mouth what appeared to be an Qgg it produced such an impression as led to its rejection.
Seeming so jeculiar he tied it in the corner of his handkerchief for more convenient examination.
The specimen now exhibited was a membranous bag which contained thirty yellowish white maggots from 8 to 12 mm long by 1.5 to 3 mm broad.
They are the larvae of a botfly and resemble those of the Gastrophilus of the horse.
Their characters are as follow Body of the larva fusiform acute anteriorly obtuse posteriorly consisting of twelve segments including the head which is armed Avith a pair of strong black hooked maxillae  terminal segment with a pair of trilateral oval chitinous disks each with three spiracles  intermediate segments with numerous minute recurved hooklets disposed in incompletely separated bands at the fore and back part of the segments.
The sac containing the larvae is about three fourths of an inch long and half an inch broad with a short tubular prolongation open at the extremity.
It was uncertain whether the sac formed part of the intestine.
The dish of stewed terrapins was suspected to have been a mixture of the diamondback Emys pahistrw and the redbellied terrapin JE.
rugosa.
This is not the only instance of the occurrence of bots in turtles as Prof. A. S. Packard notes the case of larvae being found in the skin of the neck of the boxturtle Cistudo Carolina. December 20.
Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. in the chair.
Twelve persons present.
1 Proc.
A. N. S. 1858 111.
 American Naturalist 1882 598.
A paper entitled The Miocene Mollusca of the State of New Jersey by Angelo Heilprin was presented for publication.
Determination of the Age of Bock Deposits.
Prof Heilprin referring to the methods that had been used by geologists and physicists to determine the rate of formation of rock masses stated that in the case of the organicallyformed rocks especially those like the chalk which were largely in the nature of a deepsea deposit the data deduced from sedimentation and accumulation were of little or no value since the rate of growth hei'e was almost wholly dependent upon the rate of development of the oceanic organisms which use lime in the construction of their hard parts.
In the deposit now accumulating along the seabottom known as the Atlantic or Globigerina ooze the speaker thought we had some direct clue bearing upon the solution of the problem.
Manifestly there can be no more rajiid accumulation of the calcareous ooze than there is limecarbonate suspended in the sea  and again the quantity of limecarbonate in the form of microscopic tests and fragments suspended in the sea must depend upon the quantity of the formative material contained in the sea the quantity of lime carried in by the rivers.
The researches of the officers of the Challenger expedition have shown that in a column of oceanic water of 600 feet depth with a transverse area of one square mile there are contained some 16 tons of suspended organic foraminiferal particles  these if precipitated to the floor of the sea would make a deposit xoo inch in thickness.
Now it would seem from careful observations made on many of the most important rivers of the globe that the quantity of lime carried out by them into the sea annually is about onesixth that of their suspended sediment and would cover the seabottom if precipitated at a rate proportional to that of the removal of continental sediment one foot in 3000 years to a depth of about o inch.
Assuming that onehalf of this amount is used by the Foraminifera for the construction of their shells the rest being taken up by the mollusks corals etc. then the foraminiferal accumulation from this apparently the only available source Avould be the oVo part of an inch annually or very nearly the amount that would accumulate from the droppings contained in the 600foot column of water as deduced from the Challenger determinations.
At this extiemely slow rate of accumulation it would require a period of 100000 years to form a single foot and where as in the case of the Chalk we have a similar deposit hundreds of feet in thickness we would require a period of millions of years for its formation.
The speaker stated that there Avere probably factors involved in a more rapid formation of the Atlantic ooze with Avhich we were not acquainted and it hardly appeared credible to him that the rate of formation could be as slow as the data indicate.
But the method of calculation was based upon tangible facts and was accordingly interesting.
1 Mellard Reade Presidential Address Liverpool Geo.
Soc Oct. 1876.
December 27.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Seventy persons present.
The death of Dr. Ferdinand V. Hay den a member was announced.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication Description of New Species of Uniones from Florida.
By Berlin Hart Wright.
A Bibliographic and Synomymic Catalogue of the Genus Auriculella Pfr.
By Wm.
D. Hartman M. D. A Bibliographic and Synomymic Catalogue of the Genus Achatinella Swnsn.
By Wm.
D. Hartman M. D. The following was ordered to be printed
