CONTRIBUTIONS TOWARDS A SYNOPSIS OF THE AMERICAN FORMS OF FRESH WATER SPONGES WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF THOSE NAMED BY OTHER AUTHORS AND FROM ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD.
BY EDWARD POTTS.
Dr. Bowerbank's Monograph of tlie Spongillidre Proc.
ZooL tSoc London 1863 p. 440 etc.
and The History and Classification of the known species of Spongilla by H. J. Carter Esq.
F. R. kS.
etc.
Annals and Mag.
of Nat.
Hist. London 1881 p. 77 etc.
contain the only complete synopses of the fresh water sponges as known at their respective dates.
Both Avriters have in their introductory remarks given full information as to the history and bibliography of this branch of study which it cannot be necessary now to repeat.
My design in the preparation of the present paper has been primarily to describe those genera and species mostly North American that have been discovered since the date of Mr. Carter's publication next to detail the results of a somewhat extended examination into the character and variations in North America of those species that have long been familiarly known in Europe and thirdly to make it valuable for reference as a Monograph by adding brief technical descriptions of all other good species.
A further purpose and one that I hold much at heart is the desire to revive among scientists and lovers of nature an appreciation of the apparently almost forgotten fact of the existence of sponges in our fresh water to show them that they are easily found and collected  that they are deeply interesting as living subjects of study microscopic and otherwise  and that by simple processes their typical parts may readily be prepared for classification and the permanent preservation of their various singular forms.
With this end in view the situations and conditions in which the American species were found have been briefly described suggesting the hopefulness of an exploration of similar localities in other neighborhoods.
During the last six or seven years the leisure time of a very busy life has been largely occupied in the collection and examination of sponge material.
In this labor of love I have been greatly aided by the contributions and correspondence of friends till then unknown in widely separated districts for whose thoughtful kindness I now desire to express my indebtedness.
It were idle to attempt to name them all  but to Professors Allen Cope Hunt Leidy and Heilprin of Philadelphia to Dawson Hyatt Bumpus and Osborn in other localities I am particularly indebted.
As active workers in the same field and during nearly the same period I am glad to acknowledge my constant obligation to my friends Mr. Henry Mills of Buffalo N. Y. and Mr. B. W. Thomas of Chicago III whose names Avill frequently be found throughout the following pages.
More recently my valued friend and correspondent Mr. A. H. MacKay of Pictou Nova Scotia has been untiring in his efforts very successful in his local and New Foundland collections and most generous in the contribution of his valuable material.
I owe to my friend Prof John A. Ryder of the University of Pennsylvania what has been of more value than any material the most unfailing courtesy and the best of advice assistance and encouragement to persevere in my work.
From abroad I have been honored Avith the correspondence and publications of Dr. W. Dybowski of Niankow Russia Prof Marsliall of Leipsig Vejdovsky and Petr of Prague Bohemia.
Prof Vejdovsky has laid me under especial obligations by his repeated gifts of Bohemian and other European sponges besides his Diagnosis of the European Spongillidae now published as a very valuable contribution to this paper.
I thank Dr. C. W. de Lannoy late of Chester Pennsylvania for the original draAvings for plates V aud VI the excellence of which wdl be conceded by all acquainted with the subjects.
Two names remain of friends without whose influence and assistance this Monograph would probably never have been written.
The first has passed the alloted term of three score years and ten and now with failing strength but unfailing love of his work is hastening to garner the last ripe sheaves of a life of honorable scientific labor.
I count it a great privilege to have become acquainted near the beginning of my work with H. J. Carter Esq.
of Devonshire England than whom no obscure scientist could hope for a more constant friend or more courteous correspondent.
To the fine artistic skill and unwearying patience of the other.
Miss S. G. Foulke of Philadelphia my readers with myself owe a large part of the value of this Avork in the admiiable drawings from which plates VII to XII have been reproduced.
These reproductions are the work of the PhotoEngraving Co. N.
Y.
and while it is regretted that from the very nature of the process no ihotoengraved plate could repeat with their relative delicacy the finer lines of Miss Foulke's beautiful drawings in other respects they are very well done.
A few words of elementary information may be desirable to aid those who for the first time undertake the study of sponges.
In constitution and general appearence the fresh water sponges resemble many of those of a marine habitat excepting in one particular.
This crucial point is the presence during certain resting seasons in most of the former and the absence from all the latter of those seedlike bodies that have been known and described by various authors under the names of ovaria gemmules statoblasts statospheres sphrulse etc.
In the past I have generally avoided the use of the familiar word statoblast as it did not seem clearly proven that the function of these seed like bodies of the sponges was identical with that of the statoblasts of the polyzoa etc  and have used the terms statospheres or spherule as suggesting merely their general appearance.
Latterly hoAvever I have concurred Avith several European writers in the use of the old term gemmules the principal objection to which is that with some persons the name may seem like a return to the exploded vegetable theory of sponges.
It is hardly necessary to say that this idea is not intended.
In shape these gemmules are nearly sjDherical they are about 5 of an inch in diameter or as large as very small mustard seeds.
They are found sometimes in continuous layers as at the base of encrusting sponges  sometimes they rest singly in the interspaces among the skeleton spicules  again they occur in groups of a dozen or less sparsely scattered through the sponge mass or in smaller denser groups closely enveloped in a compact cellular parenchyma.
Their principal coat presumably of chitin encloses a compact mass of protoplasmic globules each of Avhich is charged Avith numbers of discoidal particles Avhose function though all important it is not my intention to discuss in the present paper.
A circular orifice rarely more than one through this chitiuous coat sometimes though inaptly called the hilum should be known as the foramen or foraminal apertuie. Through it at the time of germination the above mentioned protoplasmic bodies make their exit craAvling by an amoeboid movement and spreading out on every side.
In a few hours the inftint colony may be seen producing aqueous currents developing and arranging skeleton spicules and in every way living the life of a young sponge.
The foraminal aperture is rarely plain  more frequently it is infundibular PL V fig.
i a having a slightly raised and expanded margin  while in still other species it is prolonged into cylindrical or funnel shaped tubules PL VI fig.
iii iv and v. In most species possibly in all under normal conditions the chitinous coat is surrounded by a crust PL VI figs i ii etc.
 composed of air cells often so minute as to be with difliculty resolvable even with a high power of the microscope  in other species so large as to be readily discerned by the use of a low one.
In the first instance it has been called a granular in the other a cellular crust.
In this are imbedded PL V and VI the spicules which as will be hereafter seen are relied upon to determine the generic classification of these sponges.
To recur for a moment to the resemblance stated to exist between the fresh water and some of the marine sponges we can see no obvious reason why all the marine forms should not have their representatives among those belonging to fresh water  but it is a fact that all of the latter as yet discovered are siUcioiis that is the skeleton or framework corresponding to the elastic fibre of which commercial sponges are composed upon which the slimelike sponge flesh knovn as sarcode is supported and through whose interstices the currents meander is composed of silicious spicules slightly bound together by an almost invisible quantity of firmer sarcode or perhaps of colloidal silica.
To form the main lines of this skeleton structure the spicules averaging about ith.
of an incli in length are fasciculated in bands made up of several spicules lying side by side and somewhat overlapping at their extremities  the crossing lines being formed of more slender fascicles or even of single spicules.
In the different species these skeleton spicules vary in size in the shape of their terminations and in their more or less spinous character see Plates VII to XII aa but while these differences serve in some degree as specific guides they are not sufficiently constant or positive to form a basis for generic arrangement.
Besides the skeleton spicules a second class known as dermal or flesh spicules PL VII to XII c d e etc.
is found only in some species and in greater or less numbers either lying ujion the outer dermal film or lining the canals in the deeper portions of the sponge.
They are almost always much smaller than those of the skeleton and are never fasciculated or bound together in any way.
A third class of spicules is composed of those before mentioned as imbedded in the crust of the gemmules and form what may be regarded as their armor or defensive coating.
These gemmulespicules represent two principal and several subordinate types which have been selected by Mr. Carter to define the different genera into which he has divided the single genus Spongllla of the earlier authors.
His method of classification will be given later.
The sponge in its entirety as a growing organism can generally be easily recognized by the collector after he has escaped from the thraldom of the idea that any fixed growth of a more or less vivid green color must be a jilant of some kind.
Of course the mosses and confervse will be rejected after examination upon the evidence given by the leaves of the one and the smooth slender threads of the other.
If doubts remain as to any specimen the presence in it of efierent or discharging apertures like those of the commercial sponge if it is really a sponge may serve to dispel them and still more convincing proof will be given by the use of a pocket lens in detecting the points of multitudinous spicules thickly studding the surface.
When in addition to these guiding features the spherical gemmules just described are found within or under it there should be no further hesitation.
The green color spoken of is common and characteristic  yet it is not universal but closely dependent upon the quantity or quality of the light received.
When a sponge has germinated away from the light and has grown upon the lower side of a plank or stone it will be found nearly white gray or cream colored.
As it enlarges and creeps around the edge and up into the full sun light it assumes a delicate shade of green deepening as the exposure increases till it attains a bright vegetable hue.
Even in the sunlight however some species are never green.
See description of Meyenia leldyi.
These organisms have occasionally been discovered growing in Avater unfit for domestic uses  but as a rule they prefer pure water and in my experience the finest specimens have always been found where they were subjected to the most rapid currents.
The lower side of large loose stones at the riffs or shallow places in streams  the rocks amid the foaming water at the foot of a milldam fall  tlie timbers of a sluiceway the casing of a turbine waterwheel or the walls of a tail race beneath an old mill in all these places they have been found in great abundance and of a very histy growth.
Of all discouraging situations it is almost hopeless to look for them in shallow water having a mud bottom.
Mud is their great enemy as gravity aids their natural currents to fill the cavities with earthy matters that soon suffocate them because the latter are too feeble to throw them off.
Of course in any body of water liable to be charged with sedimentary material the principle of natural selection favors those growing on the lower side of their bases of support which protect them from the intrusion of the heavier particles.
For that reason perpendicular and water logged or floating timbers submerged stumps of trees and branches drooping into the water from trees or bushes along the banks are favorite locations.
They do not disdain more temporary support such as weeds and watergrasses.
I have received from a friend specimens growing upon water plants that wild ducks had torn from the bottom and that were found floating upon the surface of Lake Michigan.
Through the clear water of our northein lakes we may often see them lying in slender lines upon the leaves of submerged weeds or in beautiful cushionlike masses upon the stones or gravel.
In my explorations I have had much satisfaction in the use of a long pole to which was attached a small net with one part of its edge shaped into a scraper like a garden hoe.
This enabled me to examine the surface of timbers at a depth of eight or ten feet and to tear off and bring up sponges from that depth  beyond which all is to me an aqua incognita.
Biologists labor at some disadvantage in studying the fiiuna of our fresh water as compared with the facilities offered them in collecting ocean subjects.
The nets and dredges of many exploring expeditions have at least begun to acquaint us with the inhabitants of the deep sea but who knows anything about the fauna or the flora of our deep freshwater lakes or even of our larger streams
The largest specimens of this group ever reported were dredged from the bottom of Lake Baikal in Central Asia Lubomirskla.
I know of no similar attempts to collect them elsewhere.
It is to be hoped that means may be found ere long to make such explorations which must result in an increase of knowledge in many lines.
Meantime no opportunity offered by the accidental or designed drainage of artificial reservoirs should be neglected.
I have spent hours of great pleasure and profit while groping around the distributing reservoirs upon Fairmount Hill Philadelphia at times when the water was drawn ott' for cleaning or repairs.
One furtlier point as to methods of collecting and I shall finish this section of my subject.
Unless our sponges are large it is difficult to detach them witJiout mutilation from the rough surfaces of stones.
It is therefore preferable to gather when possible those growing upon wood which may be scraped or chipped without injury to them.
It is essential to secure the very lowest portions as it is there the gennnules often abide.
The proper season for collecting fresh water sponges in waters of the temperate zone depends upon the purpose of the collector.
If it is his desire to gather cabinet specimens merely for the identification of old or the determination of novel species it is hardly worth while to begin before July.
As with the flowering of plants the maturity of different species of sponges is attained at various dates between midsummer and late in November.
The essential jDoint is that the gemmules and their armature shall be fully perfected and when that condition is attained in any specimen there is no reason for further delay.
I would however recommend to intending students a far higher object for their ambition  that is the study of the physiology and life histor of sponges as members of a subkingdom whose position has been greatly questioned and whose character derivation and subsequent evolution are very important and perplexing topics.
I would have such workers search for and examine them at all seasons of the year even in midwinter when I have never failed in suitable situations to find some in a growing condition keeping memoranda as to each species separately  noting the date of their germination or earliest appearance the locality elevation temperature rapidity of growth at different seasons  time and manner of formation of gemmules  stability or decadence during the winter  modes of distribution and progression whether always down stream or by other more adventitious methods  what becomes of the gemmules upon reaching saltwater and the thousand and one problems that go to make up the life history of any animal form and that in this instance have been veiy little studied.
I am particularly anxious that some competent person should undertake their study in the briny brackish and the fresh water lakes pertaining to what is known as the Great Basin of the West with a special view to ascertain the conditions under which they form protected gemmules in such localities.
By this means light may possibly be thrown upon the problem of their possible derivation from the marine sponges.
Great pleasure and profit may be attained in the same direction by germinating the statoblasts or gemmules under artificial conditions and studying the development of the young sponges by the aid of as high powers of the microscope as the ingenuity of each student may bring to bear upon the subject.
I take the liberty to copy from the Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
1882 p. 365 Mr. Carter's directions for germinating statoblasts which will be found valuable. 
To obtain the young spongilloe it is only necessary to get a portion of an old living specimen bearing statoblasts and having taken out a few six to twelve of the latter to roll them gently between the folds of a towel to free them from all extra material as much as possible place them in a watch glass so as not to touch each other with a little water in a saucer or small dish filled with small shot to keep the saucer upright and covering them with a glass shade transfer the whole to a window bench opposite to the light.
In a few days the young Spongilla may be observed from its white color issuing from the statoblast and gluing the latter as well as itself to the watch glass when it will be ready for transfer to the field of the microscope for examination care being taken that it is never uncovered by the water which may be replenished as often as necessary  but of course the objectglass when  inch with high occular is used for viewing the minute structure must admit of being dijped into the water without suffusion of the lens.
My own first experience in the propagation of fresh water sponges may prove instructive in various ways.
Late in the autumn of the year 1879 in a pond within the Centennial Grounds Philadelphia I found for the first time a living sponge.
It was a vigorous branching specimen of Spongilla lacustris charged with gemmules in all parts of its structure.
A fragment firmly attached to a stone was taken home and placed in a gallon speciejar with water in the hope begotten of inexperience that it would continue to grow exhibit its inflowing and exhalent currents etc.
On the contrary and as I now know almost necessarily it died and in a few days the water became insupportably foul.
It was changed and another trial made which resulted as before.
This time the jar was thoroughly cleansed  the stone with the attached sponge was taken out and held long under a flowing hydrant before it was replaced in the jar which was now left in an outer shed and very naturally forgotten.
Weeks passed and winter came on and one severe night the water in my jar was frozen solid and the vessel fractured.
I supposed that the low temperature to which it had been subjected would prove fatal to the germs but as the specimen was a fine one it seemed well to save it even in its skeletonized condition.
So when its icy envelope had been melted off the sponge was again thoroughly washed until all the sarcode was removed when in a fresh jar it again became a parlor specimen.
I do not clearly remember when signs of germination were first observed.
It was probably in January as during that month I find that artificial conditions very frequently bring about the hatching of such animal germs as those of the polyzoa etc.
I detected fiist a filmy grayishwhite growth that seemed associated with the detached gemmules which lay in the groove around the bottom of the jar.
A gray featureless growth at first then spicules were seen in slightly fasciculated lines attached to the glass and reaching upward then spreading out fanlike and branching.
These were of course covered with sarcode nearly transparent at first and through the filmy surfiice pores and osteoles could be detected with a pocket lens.
The latter were surmounted by the socalled chimneys or coneshaped extensions of the dermal film  and through the apertures at their summits effete particles could almost constantly be seen puffed out as if thrown from a volcano and then blown off by the wind.
These products of single gemmules did not as time passed on greatly increase in size  possibly because of deficient nutriment in the unchanged water of the jar  but crawling upward along the glass to an average height of an inch or less left the naked spicules in place behind them as so many ladders or stepping stones of their dead selves by which they had reached to higher things.
' Near the summit one or more new gemmules would sometimes be formed after which the mother mass entirely disappeared.
So much for the amount of growth from single gemmules.
Where however they were thickly sown or germinated in situ upon the stone so that the contents of several could mingle and flow together the resultant sponge was very much larger.
The mass if it may be so called covered at its best nearly one third the surface of the jarJ while those gemmules remaining upon the stone and amongst the spicules of the old sponge continued to germinate to form abundant sarcode and spicules and at least in one place to throw out a long unsupported branch or fingerlike process that ultimately reached a length of two or three inches.
Of course it Avas impossible to bring the higher powers of a compound microscope to bear upon a sponge growing under such circumstances a strong Coddiugton lens was tlie best that could be applied to this work  but a very fair share of sucess was obtained by the device of scattering small squares of mica among the growing gemmules which Avhen covered by the young sponge could be removed to the stage of my instrument covered wdth water in a compressorium and examined comparatively at leisure.
It was a perpetual cause of astonishment to me to see so large a production of silicious spicules from a single gallon of water in which the chemist would probably have failed to find any such constituent.
It is worthy of consideration however whether such silica as composed the older spicules may not  at least when under the influence of the growth force of the younger sponges be to some extent soluble.
Further observations regarding the late maturity and the winter growth of some sponges will be found recorded in the general remarks concerning Spongilla aspinosa S. lacustris etc.
As to processes of gathering I have already mentioned the advantages obtained by the use of the scraper net in relatively deep water and in connection with perpendicular timbers etc.
At depths of two feet or less great facility of action is gained by wearing high rubber boots and wading after our specimens to pick from the bottom stones sticks or pieces of waterlogged timber under which they may be concealed.
Where the water is deeper of course a boat must be used to appi'oach the floating submerged or dependent spongebearing substances.
A large strong knife or a paperhanger's scraper will be found convenient for hand work at short range.
A case containing trays an inch or so in depth is suitable for carrying the smaller specimens  the larger will of course require vessels of greater size.
On reaching home or headquarters it is well to select some specimens of characteristic shapes and containing gemmules for storage in dilute alcohol making use of wide mouthed bottles to avoid crushing them.
The rest may be spread upon boards in sheltered situations in the shade for the sun bleaches them rapidly and left to dry  turning them every few hours to prevent decomposition.
If time is limited or the specimens are large artificial heat may be necessary  but whatever process is used the drying must be thorough or mould will soon cover the sponges with a mycelium which may be beautiful enough in itself but is far from agreeable or sightly as a feature of the sponge.
Whether they are to be dried or preserved in alcohol they should be dealt with promptly and on no account left to lie long in the water after being gathered.
Preserve from dust in covered boxes.
For the determination of species a few general directions may suffice and even these will be soon modified to suit the tastes or the ingenuity of the worker.
It is assumed that the investigator has already noted the general appearance of the sponge in hand its color size compactness  whether simply encrusting or cushion like  sending out fingerlike processes etc.
These indications may help an experienced collector to a guess  but there are very few species that even such a one could name with any confidence before he had made and examined microscopic preparations of the same.
A stand supporting a dozen or more test tubes say three fourths of an inch in diameter by an inch and a quarter in de2th  a dropping bottle containing nitric acid and the usual materials and apparatus for mounting in balsam are all the appliances needed.
As the processes to be described are certain to disturb the normal relations of the several classes of spicules to each other it is well before the dried specimen has been much handled to separate some clean portions of the outer or dermal film lay them upon a slide and mount in balsam without further preparation.
An examination of this may determine the presence and decide the character of the dermal spicules if there are any pertaining to the species in hand.
This precaution is necessary in view of the displacement of parts just mentioned and also on account of the indiscriminating habit of the spongecurrents during life which almost necessarily charge the tissues with various foreign particles including vagrant spicules of its own and neighboring species.
In practice the rightful presence of dermal spicules in any species is often so doubtful that it can only be settled by an examination of young sponges grown under observation from isolated statoblasts whose identity has been satisfactorily determined.
Next separate from the sponge some minute fragments containing skeleton spicules the dermal and interstitial tissues and a dozen or more gemmules.
Place several of the last named with a few adherent skeleton spicules upon the centre of a fresh slide bring to the boiling point in one of the test tubes five or six drops of nitric acid and by the aid of a dropping tube apply a single drop of the hot acid to the gemmules upon the slide.
While the acid is partially destroying their cellular or granular crust pour the remaining fragments into the acid left in the test tube and boil violently until all the tissues are destroyed and the spicules left as a sediment upon tlie bottom of the tube.
Fill up the tube with water and stand it aside to settle  which may take an hour or more.
The few minutes that have elapsed will probably have been as much as the gemmules upon the slide will bear  they must not be left so long as to destroy the chitinous coat nor is it well though a common practice to hoil them upon the slide for this often smears and disfigures it with frothy matter.
Remove most of the acid by trickling drop after drop of water over the slide while held in a slightly inclined position.
Wipe ofl all the water that can be reached and apply repeated drops of strong alcohol to take up the remainder.
When this is so far accomplished that the gemmules will absorb benzole freely and receive their covering of benzole or chloroform balsam without clouding apply the balsam and a cover glass.
This process of removing moisture by the use of alcohol rather than by drying over a lamp is preferred although it requires more care and time because the gemmules are less likely to be distorted in shape and the cells of the crust to become filled with air if they are kept always under fluid.
Yet if the mounted gemmules when examined appear black showing an accidental intrusion of air much of this can be removed by carefully heating the slide over a lamp.
If this mount has been successful the gemmules are now so transparent that their surrounding spicules can be readily seen and the genus determined by the aid of the Key hereafter given  but a better view of the detached spicules is necessary and may be obtained by mounting some of the contents of the testtube.
If the lately suspended spicules have now settled carefully pour ofiTall the water except one or two drops  though if there has been much acid used it may be better to wash them a second time.
Shake up and place a sufficient quantity upon one or more slides being careful not to leave the contained spicules in too dense a mass.
I have found it best to allow the water to evaporate from these slowly  as if hurried over a lamp each spicule is often mai'gined with minute globules that it is impossible afterward to remove.
However when the slide is apparently quite dry it may be safely exposed a moment to the heat to make sure of it and then covered with balsam and glass as usual.
The investigator has now before him all the elements necessary for solving his specific jiroblem according to the formuhe Avhich 12 follow the normal sponge the dermal film the transparent gemmule and a display of the detached spicules.
Neither would alone answer but the series will settle all points excepting in the case of the genus Carterius.
When this is suspected the gemmules should first be examined dry and in preparations for mounting great care should be taken to avoid the destruction of the tendrils cirri PI.
VI figs iii iv v. and vi by the prolonged use of strong acid.
Expert microscopists will improve their gemmule mounts by dividing some of them with a thin knife endeavoring to make the section through the foraminal aperture this in the case of species having long birotulates such as Meyenia crateriforinis PL V fig.
vi is of the utmost importance.
Seniors in microscopy will please pardon the minutiae of the processes just given as they were necessary to make them available for the freshmen.
All are reminded that the above directions as to collection and examination refer to mature sponges only.
It is seldom safe or even possible to name one in which no gemmules can be found.
If a course of study is undertaken involving the histology and physiology of freshwater sponges many peculiarities will of course be observed that have not been alluded to here.
One ofthem concerns the development of the spicules and if not understood will pretty certainly mislead the beginner into the supposition that he is examing a novel species.
Both the skeleton and dermal spicules of young sponges are frequently marked with bulbous enlargements at the middle and often half way between the middle and each end of the spicule.
These seem to indicate an imnuitu're condition as they disappear when the spicules are fully formed.
A few words may be needed to justify the specific groupings I have adopted.
I am well aware that objections may be made to so large a use of Avhat some will call a trinomial nomenclature.
Without expressing an opinion as to the policy of the practice as regards other branches of the animal kingdom in the case of the sponges I think it clearly unavoidable for the reason that tlie inert parts that have just been described as typical share with the vital amoeboid cells their well known characteristic of unlimited variability.
Were all the names that have been dropped or marked as varieties to be recognized as full species on the ground that the specimens so designated do not exactly resemble any others the literature would be encumbered with a mass of names representing forms that no description could distinguish and no one of which would probably entirely correspond with the next specimen collected by its author from the same stream.
This variability in forms that were considered typical when the first of a species was collected and named is a fact in science that will not fail to impress any who may gather from many waters and through a wide extent of country.
Among some very incomplete memoranda of my collections and receipts I find it recorded that I have examined Spongilla fragUis from at least 32 localities in 18 North American Stat5s S. lacusti'is from 26 localities in 16 states Meijenia flaviatilis from 25 localities in 14 states Tubella pennsylvanica from 18 localities in 11 states etc.
Had a perfect list been kept the figures might be largely increased.
And this is the lesson most obviously taught  hardly any two specimens are exactly alike in their socalled typical features  but all may be grouped as in the case of those brought together under any of the above designations and common definitions or descriptions will without undue elasticity cover them all.
The varieties I have retained are such as were originally considered good species and have generally some slight jeculiarity to recommend them  but to the student I would say  Get your genus right and your species right and then it will matter little whether you associate it with any variety.
The following Diagnosis was prepared at my request by Prof Franz Vejdovsky of the University in Prague Bohemia to give information as to the number of reliable species of freshwater sponges known by students at the present time to inhnbit European waters with their proper synonomy etc. and is far more reliable than I could hope to make it from the scattered literature of the subject.
Professor Vejdovsky has greatly aided my work by thus furnishing in manuscript a German translation from his Bohemian text for the English version of which I am further indebted to my friend Prof. Benjamin Sharp of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
As the classification adopted differs from that of Mr. Carter which for many reasons I prefer to follow it has seemed to me best to present the paper as a whole in this place instead of collating the species and distributing them amongst my descriptions.
Due reference will however be made to all in their proper order according to Carter's system.
172 proceedings of the academy of 1887.
Diagnosis of the European Spongillid.
Translated from the Bohemian of Prof. Fr.
Vejdovsky in Prague.
Fam.
SPONGILLID ASubFam.
SPONGILLINM Carter.
Gemmula sometimes jingle and sometimes collected into groups generally surrounded by an airchamberlayer in which the geninmlie spicules are embedded.
I Gen. SPONGILLA Auct.
With long smooth skeleton spicules and short either straight or curved smooth or rough parenchyma spicules.
Gemmulae either entirely smooth or with an external airchamberlayer in which the gemmulse spicules are either tangential or radial or entirely irregularly embedded.
a Subgen. ETJSPONGILLA Vejdovsky.
Gemmulse always single.
Besides the European species most of the exotic species to which Carter gives the generic name of Sfportfdla belong here.
I Euspongilla lacustris Auct.
Syn.
Spongilla lacustris J Linn.
1788  canalimn f Gmelin.
1816  ramosa . Lamarck.
1842  lacustris f Johnston.
1853   Lieberkiihn.
866   Bowerbank.
1870  lieherkuhnii Noll.
1877  lacustris Vejdovsky.
1877  jordanensis  1881  lacustris Carter.
1882   Dybowski.
1883  Euspongilla lacustris Vejdovsky 1883    jordanensis 1883  lacustris Retzer.
Var.
spon.
lacustris ramosa Ketzer. 
 lleberkuhnil  1 884 Euspongilla lacustris Wierzejski.
Diagnosis Colony Stoecke branched or cushionlike grassgreen yellowish or brownish.
Osculje and pores indistinct but everywhere numerous.
Skeleton spicules straight or slightly curved sliarp pointed smooth and enclosed in bundles in a horny sheath.
Tlie parenchyma spicules are present in variable numbers generally moderately curved and set thick with fine spines  at times however.
when few in number they are smooth.
Gemmula3 almost entirely naked Avithout the external airchamberlayers and with very few spicules.
In other cases they are covered to a greater or less depth with a layer of minute cells filled with air.
At times this layer is surrounded with a distinct horny membrane although it is often wanting.
In the airchamberlayer are imbedded either radially tangentially or very irregularly the gemmula spicules which resemble the parenchyma spicules in external form and variability as to numbers.
Ordinarily they are curved and thickly spined  rarely entirely smooth.
 Remarks.
Euspongilla laciistris is found in nearly all Europe as an inhabitant of both running and still water.
As the above Diagnosis shows these fresh water sponges are liable to great variations especially in external form and in the quantity as well as the form of the parenchyma and gemmulsespicules.
Based on these variations Euspongilla lacustris would be divided into many species and varieties.
Without doubt we have here a very variable fundamental grund type out of which new species are beginning to form.
Future careful researches principally by experiment will show where lies tlie cause of the above mentioned variability in the form and quantity of the parenchyma and gemmulaj spicules.
Let us first examine those forms that have been looked upon as indicating distinct species.
We may take as typical that form in which there are but few parenchyma spicules in the tissues and in which the gemmulse are perfectly smooth and but sparingly supplied with covering spicules Belegnadeln.
This form of Euspongilla lacustris has been regarded by Lieberkuhn and partly by Bowerbank as the real Spongilla lacustris  and I have also considered it such in my paper Die Siisswasser Schwiimme Bohmens and so it is also represented by Retzer.
In my Monograph I have however at the same time pointed out that in one and the same colony Stoecke other forms are found with rough parenchyma spicules and with covering spicules Belegnadeln and seem to indicate a transitional stage towards those that have been looked upon as distinct species.
The nearest of these is Spoiigilla leiberkuhnii described by Noll Zoologischer Garten in 1870 and also by Retzer who under the same name described it as follows Forms encrustations on wood and stones from which rise frequently free cylindrical processes as long as one's finger.
Skeleton spicules smooth gradually pointed bound into fascicles which are either long threads or are placed as a network in the tissues.
Hooked spicules cover the gemmulse and are widely dispersed through the tissues.
They live in ponds and quiet flowing water and appear to be the most widely distributed species of Germany.
Although from this description of Retzer's it is evident that Spovgilla lieberkuhnii only slightly differs from his S. lacustrls I thought it necessary to examine for myself the nature of the form in question.
From a small fragment of S. lieberkuhnii for which I must thank Prof. Eimer I clearly recognize its identity with iS.
lacustris.
In the form of tlie gemmulse and the scarcity of the covering spicules I find no difference between them  sections of the gemmulje prove that the airchambei'layer is more or less developed and its surface may be with or without a liorny membrane  which is also the case with EisponiiUa lacustris in various localities in Bohemia.
The immense even predominating quantity of the strong rough parenchyma spicules and an equally large number and variety of the external form of the gemmulae spicules these are on the other hand the striking characteristics wliich strongly suggested the recognition of a similar form from the Jordan Pond near Tabor in Bohemia as a distinct species Euipoiuilla jordanensi.
But the quantity of sponge material that has been at my disposal for some years convinced me otherwise.
In some specimens from the Elb near Koniggriitz and from a pond near Poiakek 
I found the gemmulse and covering spicules to correspond with each other and with the characteristic type of 8. lacustris  while in single branches they were identical with the same features in E. jordanensis from the Jordan Pond  and at the same time a corresjionding quantity of rough parencliyma spicules was found in its tissues.
We must therefore unite E. jordanemis with E. lacustris.
E. lacustris var.
macrotheca very neax'ly resembles tlic following species.
2 Euspoagilla rhenana Kci.cr.
Syn.
1883 Sponcjilla rhenana Retzer.
This interesting species was first described by Retzer in the following terms It differs from tlie other species by the smooth gemmula spicules.
It encrusts pieces of wood buslies and the like sending out a few small processes  and also in many places forms thick masses.
The skeleton spicules are straight or slightly curved abruptly or more gradually pointed.
Their threadlike fascicles form a compact network.
The gemmule spicules are smooth symmetrically bent near each end and form a thick layer around the gemmules  but are sparingly distributed tli rough the tissues.
The gemmulaj have a tolerably thick outer wall and are found everywhere in the sponge.
Habitat Altrheim 
near Eggenstein in the vicinity of  Karlsruhe.
According to Prof. Niisslin whom I thank for the specimens the sponge when living is green and at all times can be found on fiiscine bushes Faschine7i gestraeuch.
Through the kindness of Prof Eimer in Tubingen I was enabled to examine a fragment of EuspongiUa rhenana and can offer some additions to the description of lietzer.
The gemmulffi have the form and size of those of E. lacustris but the polar aperture mikrodiode is surrounded by a broad platelike funnel.
Upon the chitinous membrane is a very thin airchamberlayer consisting of 23 cells overlying one another.
This layer was rarely deeper than 50 cells in a column.
The latter support the greater number of spicules.
They generally lie tangentially upon the surface of tlie genunule and very few are embedded radially in the airchamberlayer.
In shape these spicules are very variable and generally three principal forms can be determined.
The most plentiful are those which resemble the common skeleton spicules  a very few those mentioned by Retzer are bent double and such are also scattered singly through tlie parenchyma finally there are found upon the surface of the gemmulae spicules that are slightly ent and compressed in the centre.
The auxiliary apertures nebenmikrodioden numbering 36 upon the surface of the gemmulse are worthy of notice.
About every tenth gemmule has near the principal aperture some lateral funnels  which fact makes this form resemble the species described by  'arter from British Columbia under the name of Spongilla multiporis.
b Subgen. SPONGILLA Wierzejski.
From 230 gemmulse as a rule grouped in a common covering or placed pavementlike along side of one another.
Mostly there is a deep airchamberlayer through which smooth and rougli spicules are scattered.
S Spongilla fragilis Leidy.
Syn.1851 Spongilla fragilis lue'idy.
1863  lordli Bowerbauk.
1870  conteda loW.
187884  dberica Dybowski.
1883  conteda Retzer.
1884  fragilis Vejdovsky.
1885  lordii Wierzejski.
1885  fragilis 1885  '' Petr.
1886  glomerata Noll.
Colony not branched  pale or brown in color with large osculae which as a rule are grouped in large cavities of the surface.
Pores numerous and small.
Skeleton spicules nearly straight or but slightly bent sharppointed smooth not rarely thickened in the middle.
Gemmulae spicules numerous straight or curved with many minute spines.
Gemmule small spherical with a high generally hornshaped polar tube which is filled with air and projects from the airchamberlayer the latter consists of large radial rows of cells.
The groups of gemmulse according to the species 
and the place of developnient present two principal forms the basal groups are shallow and here the gemmulje are placed pavementlike close together tliose formed in the parenchyma consist of 2 or 3 30 and even more gemmuloe forming spherical or hemispherical masses.
This species 8. fragilis first described by Leidy in America was later described in Siberia by Dr. Ben.
Dybowski and finally by Noll as S. conteda and S. glomerata.
Recently it has been observed in Russio. in Donee Douetz
near Charkow in Galicia Bohenna and England and has been described repeatedly by Dybowski Retzer Carter Vejdovsky Wierzejeski and Petr.
B SubFamily MEYENIN Carter.
Gemmulae generally single surrounded by an airchanderlayer in which amphidiscs are embedded in one or moie series one above another.
They are either starshaped or have entire margins.
II Gen. TROCHOSPONGILLA Vejdovsky.
With smooth T. leidyi or rough T. erenaceus skeletosn spicules amphidiscs smooth with entire margins embedded at the base of an airchambexlayer.
Only one species has been found in Europe.
4 Trochospongilla erenaceus Ehrenbcrg.
Syn1846 Spongilla erenacexis Ehreiiberg.
1856   Lielerkuhn.
1877   Vejdovsky.
1881 Meyenio  Carter.
1883 Trochospongilla erenaceus Vejdovsky.
1883 Spongilla  Retzer.
1885 Trochospongilla  Wierzejski.
Trochospongilla is of considerable dimensions covering foreign bodies in cusbionlike incrustations  of a whitish or straw yellowish color skeleton spicules sharply pointed at both ends  surface except at the extremities covered with powerful spines.
Parenchyma spicules correspondingly 
small smooth and very often swollen in the middle.
Gemmulpe covered with spoollike amphidiscs whose rotules have entire margins.
They lie at the base of a deep airchamberlayer which consists of radially placed hollow columns that are divided into a number of chambers by crosspartitions.
Trochospongilla erenaceus has been observed in many places in Europe.
In Germany by Ehrenburg in Bohemia by Vejdovsky in Galicia by Wierzejski and in Russia by W. Dybowski.
Ill Gen. EPHYDATIA Jray.
Lamarck.
Skeleton spicules either entirely smooth or entirely rough  though sometimes both forms are present together.
In the airchamberlayers around the gemmule are embedded amphidiscs with star shaped rotules in one two or three layers placed one over the other.
In the first instance they may be of equal length but frequently their lengths are unequal.
5 Ephydatia miilleri Leiheiklilin.
Syn 1816 Spongilla pulvinata Lamai'ck.
1856  mulleri Lieberkiihn.
1877   Vejdovsky.
1878 TrachijspongiUa mdlleri Dybowski.
1882 Meyenia No.
2.
1882 Ephydatia No.
2.
1883  mulleri Vejdovsky.
From A.
Form B. var.
astrodiscus Vejdovsky.
1883 Ephydatia amphizona part.
1883 Spongilla mirabilis Retzer.
1885 Meienia mulleri Wierzejski.
1886 EphydaUa  Fctr.
Colony cushionlike rarely branched bright green yellow yellowishbrown or white with large osculse which lead to a system of small canals.
The skeleton spicules are either entirely smooth or entirely rough or both forms are found together in the same colony.
Their degree of roughness is very different as the spines are sometimes quite indistinct at others very conspicuous.
The spicules are either straight or slight
 curved  sharp pointed and fasciculated within a hornv sheath.
The gemmules are surrounded Avith shallow apertures slightly flattened from above downward through airchamberlayers of greater or less depth.
Amphidiscs numerous ordinarily in a single layer but sometimes in two layers E. amphizona and occasionally in three layers S'.
mirabilis set one over the others.
In the last case the external layer forms an imperfect or broken series of amphidiscs.
The axes of the amphidiscs are short relatively to their thickness the rays either smooth or notched on their edges.
Ephydatia mulleri is known in Euroje in Germany Bohemia Russia Galicia and England.
61 Ephydatia fluviatilis auct.
Syn1788 Spongilla fluviatilis 
IJnn.
1788  canalium.

 1816  pulvinata 
Lamarck.
1842  fluviatilis 
Johnston.
1856   Lieberkiilin.
1863  ' Bowerbank.
1867 Ephydatia  Gray.
1877 Spongilla  Vejdovsky.
1881 Meyenla  Carter.
1882 Ephydatia  Dybowski.
1883   Vejdovsky.
1883 Sporujilla  Retzer.
1884 Ephijdatia  Wierzejski.
1886   Petr.
Amorphous cushionlike colonies of an emerald or bright Isabellayellow color.
Skeleton spicules smooth throughout slightly curved andsharppoiuted.
Parenchyma spicules 
also smooth small and very slightly bent.
Gemmulne small yellow with a thick hornmembrane the external airchamberlayer surrounded by a thin chitinous covering.
In this layer toothed amphidiscs are embedded having either smooth or spinous shafts that are constricted in the middle and twice as long as the diameters of the rotulse.
In Europe E. fluviatilis is found in France England Germany Bohemia Galicia and Russia.
7 Ephydatia bohemica F. Pctr.
Syii.
1886 Ephydatia hohemica F. Petr.
Colony very small green and is found living parasitic or symbiotic in the colonies of Easpongilla lacustris.
Skeleton spicules .straight or slightly curved  at times covered with fine spines.
Parenchyma spicules numerous straight or somewhat bent covered with spinous processes as in Carterius stepanowii Gemmulse with large apertures mikrodioden whose pole is expanded into a broad irregular funnel.
In the airchamberlayer are embedded amphidiscs of equal lengths some of which however project above the surface of the gemmuhe.
Their shafts are slender and longer than the liameter of the nearly regular starshaped terminal discs.
The rays of those discs are finely notched.
Rarely does the mikrodiode funnel run into a lengthened tube.
Ephydatia bohemiea is as yet found only in one place in Europe viz in Kvasetic near Deutschbrod in Bohemia.
This species is very characteristic as it has a certain relationshi to if it is not a transitional form of the following genus Carterius  in the fact that the amphidiscs are indistinctly of two lengths  and the tendency shown though rare for the mikrodiode to lengthen into a polar tube which is so characteristic in Carterius.
IV Gen. CARTERIUS Potts.
Syn.
Dos'dia Dybowski Gray.
Skeleton spicules smooth  those of the parenchyma spinous.
Gemmuhe with a deep straight air tube which terminates in an irregular lobulated disc.
In the airchamberlayer are embedded amphidiscs of two lengths one set being as long as the thickness of the airchamberlayers  the others just as numerous 
 as the former project beyond the .surface of the gemmulje.
8 Carterius stepanowii Pctr Dybowski.
Syn.
1863 Spougilla haileyl Bowerbank.
1881 Meyenia  
Carter.
1884 Dodlia stepanowii Dybowski.
1881 Carterius  Petr.
Colony slender branching fine to fibrillar 
surrounding the stems of water plants.
It is of a bluishgreen color  dimensions insignificant.
Skeleton spicules smooth straight or curved sharppointed.
Parenchyma spicules numerous bent or straight and thickly set with spines which are largest at the middle of the spicules.
Gemmulse marked by a polar air tube which is straight or slightly bent and terminated by a wavy lobulated disc.
The airchamberlayer is formed of numerous small cells.
Amphidisas of two lengths of which one third or even a half may project beyond the surface of the airchamberlayer.
The amphidiscs are thickly set with spines.
Carter lus stepanowli wtis first discovered in a lake near Charkow in Russia and was in 1885 found in Bohemia by F. Petr in a pond near Deutschbrod.
The above paper of Prof Vejdovsky has been copied in full as a very valuable statement of 'the present status of the specific study of fresh water sponges in Europe more particularly upon the continent.
Synopsis.
Of the plan of Classification proposed by H. J. Carter F. R. S..
etc. Ann.
and Mag. Feb. 1881 already referred to he says I found it necessary to make the fresh water sponges the fifth family of my sixth order of the Sponglda generally under the name o  Potamospongida'' with a single group at present named ''SpongillinaJ' Hence so far they will stand thus Class SPONGIDA.
Order VI HOLORHAPHIDOTA.
Char.
Possessing a skeleton whose fibre is entirely composed of proper spicules bound together ly a minimum of sarcode.
Form of spicule variable.
Family 5 POTAMOSPONGIDA.
Freshwater kSponges.
Group 19 SPONGILLINA.
Char.
Bearing seed like reproductive organs called statoblasts.
To the five genera named by him two have been added to define some recently discovered American types so that the list now stand..
Genera 1.
SjoiigUla  2.
Meyenia  8.
Heteromeijenia  4.
Tubelh 5.
Parmida 6.
Carterius  7 Provisional the possible material fof a new group including Uruguaya Lubotir.skia Potamolepis etc.
As has been intimated these genera have been founded upon tlie peculiarities of the gemmulespicules except in one instance which is determined by other appendages of the gemmulse.
Assuming that the ilhistrations will sufficiently show the meaning of the siecial terms used the student is referred without further preface to the following Key by comarison with which he will without hesitation be able to decide the generic status of his specimen.
Fuller definitions will be given as each genus comes under notice.
KEY TO THE GENERA OF FRESH WATER SPONGES.
Carter's System.
1.
Gemmulse surrounded by acerate PL VII c.c.c or cylindrical PI.
VII b.b.b spicules alone.
Plate V figs i ii   Spongilla.
2. 
surrounded by birotulate PI X. fig.
iii.
b.b.b etc.
spicules of a single class or type resting by one the proximal rotule upon the chitinous coat  diameters of the rotules equal or nearly so.
PI.
V fig.
iv V and vi.
Meyenia.
3. 
surrounded by birotulate spicules of two classes or types both resting by one rotule upon the chitinous coat  the less numerous class longer than the other.
PI.
VI fig.
i PI.
XL b.c.
etc.
Heteromeyenia.
4. 
surrounded by iniequibirotulatespiculesPl.
XII fig.
i ii and iii.
b.c.d.
etc.
of which the proximal rotule is much larger than the distal one.
PI.
VI.
fig.
ii.
TUBELLA.
'5. 
whose crust is charged Avith spicules from which the distal rotule has been entirely eliminated leaving the proximal rotule surmounted only by a short pointed portion of the shaft.
See Ann.
and Mag.
1881 PI.
5 figs.
1 and 2.
Parmula.
i. 
whose forarainal tubules are prolonged their terminations broadly funnelshaped or divided into cirrous appendages of varying numbers and lengths.
PI.
VI figs iii iv v and vi.
Carterius.
1 Specimens are occasionally found with birotiilates of a single type arranged in two or three concentric series.
For this form Mr. H. Mdls proposed Proc.
Am.
Soc.
of Microscopists 1884 the new genus PUioineyenia while Prof. Vejdovsky has merged two species named on account of the same peculiarity into the common species E. mi'tUeii.
See Diagnosis.
7.
Sponges in which no gemmulse have yet been discovered and whose classification may therefore be considered doubtful.
Urtiguaya Carter Ann.
and Mag.
etc.
1881. p. 100 and PI.
VI.
fig.
17.
 Lubomirskia Pallas.
Potamolepis Marshall Zeit.
fiir Naturwissenschaften XVI.
N. F. IX Bd and Taf.
XXIV.
' Particular attention is invited to the illustrations from platas prepared by the PhotoEngraving Co. N.
Y..
Plates Nos.
V and VI are from original drawings by Dr. C. W. de Lannoy and represent either the whole or portions of gemmules with their associated spicules to explain the typical characteristics of the different genera.
They are variously magnified as suited his several subjects.
Plates VIIXII incl.
are also from original drawings magnificently executed by Miss.
S. G. Foulke.
They include altogether thirtysix separate groups repi'esenting every class of spicules in an equal number of species or varieties all equally magnified and drawn to scale.
They may therefore be relied upon as depicting the spicules as the student himself will see them  neither diagrammatic nor idealized.
The power used was 400 diameters which has been reduced upon the plates to one half say 200 diameters.
The measurements accompanying the descriptions of nearly all the North American species are averages resulting from micrometric measurement of from 15 to 30 individual spicules and may be conviently reduced to millimeters by moving the decimal point two places to the right and dividing by four.
The variability in different specimens is so great that I cannot regard any meiisureinents as of exact specific value.
I Gen. SPONGILLA.
Carter.
Part of old genus SpongUla Auct.
Plate V figs i ii and iii.
Gen. Char.
Skeleton spicules acerate generally smooth curved fusiform pointed  mostly accompanied by flesh spicules.
GemmuIffi globular  crust variable in thickness or absent altogether  accompanied by or charged with minute acerates PL V b.b.b.
also PI.
VII b.b.
smooth or spined imbedded in or lying upon it or on the chitinous coat.
Modified from Charter.
When the old genus Spongilla of authors was subdivided by Mr. Carter in 1881 this term was very appropriately restricted to that type which includes the species most widely diffused and most frequently noticed throughout the world.
The following brief summaries of specific points may serve as a guide to the intending student enabling him at a glance to select the species whih his specimen most nearly resembles without having to read many pages of inapposite matter.
It must be remarked in explanation of the omission of some names that the verbal descriptions of some of the older species as copied from their authors fail to give diferential points that can be made use of in this connection.
In the treatment of my own discoveries or those of others that have come to me for examination I have desired to be thoroughly conservative grouping those together that have an undoubted relation to one another and not creating either species or varieties unless they appear necessary to aid in study of the subject.
I hesitate however to drop species the type specimens of which I have never seen  although it is probable some of them might become synonyms to advantage.
KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS SPONGILI.A.
a Sponge branching.
1.
Slender cylindrical waving branches  dermal spicules minute smooth acerates gemmules few sponge evergreen.
PL VIII fig.
vi.
S. aspinosa.
2.
Branches generally tapering rigid  less frequently cylindrical and flaccid  skeleton spicules smooth  dermals pointed spined acerates  gemmules after maturity numerous  with or without granular crust  spicules cylindrical curved spined.
PI.
VII figs ivi.
S. lacustrin.
3.
Branches small  crust of gemmules thin spicules smooth.
8. r he nana b Subbranched.
4.
Spines of dermal spicules longest at the centre gemmule spicule roundended covered with recurved spines.
S. alba.
5.
Short compressed branches gemmule spicules at various angles.
S. cerebellata.
c Sponge without branches.
6.
Gemmulse with thick crust of polyhedral cells arranged perpendicularly spicules of gemmulae smooth.
S. carteri.
7.
Crust as in the last species  a layer of minute spined acerates intervened between it and the chitinous body besides that which is exterior to it.
S. nitens.
8.
Spicules of gemmulae very short trapezoidal.
Gemmule adherent elliptical  aperture terminal.
S. navicella.
.
Capsule around the gemmule and chitinous body both spiculiferous.
S. bombayensu.
10.
Shafts of gemmule spicules smooth heads composed of numerous short blunt or subacute spines.
S. botryoides.
11.
Gemmule spicules spined particularly near the head.
S. sceptrioides.
12.
Color cinereous.
S. cinerea.
13.
Gemmules in layers or groups 'diieTtures npivard or outivard surrounded by a cellular parenchyma charged with subcylindrical spined spicules.
PL V fig.
ii.
PI.
VIII figs i to iv.
S. frag His.
14.
Gemmules in hemispherical groups  apertures inward surrounded by a parenchyma of unequal cells charged Avith coarsely spined spicules nearly as long as the less strongly spiniferous skeleton spicules.
PI.
V fig.
iii.
PI.
VIII fig.
v. S. igloviformis.
15.
Resembling the above but with spines more broadly conical etc.
S. mackayi.
16.
Parasitic on S. nitens with minute curved dermal birotulate.
S' bohmii.
17.
Gemmules very large chitinous coat thin  crust absent or inconspicuous  gemmule spicules smooth or irregularly furnished with very long spines frequently located near the extremities.
Numerous dermal birotulates.
S. novce temo'.
a Sponge imk branched.
'ii Spongilla aspinosa Potts.
PI.
VIII fig.
vi.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Nov. 1880 p. 357 etc.
Sponge green encrusting thin upon a rejiitively thick basal membrane thence sending out numerous radting long slender cylindrical branches occasionally subdividing  texture very loose  .surface rather smooth pores conspicuous.
Gemmules very few in scattered bunches of ten to twenty or more small spherical with a granular crust surrounded by an irregular mass of spicules resembling those of the skeleton.
'Spongilla aracknoidea named by H. JamesClark Am.
Journ.
Sci.
1871 p. 426 and ''Siphydora echinoides''' by the same author Mind in Nature p. 41 1865 are not accompanied by sucli descriptions as will enable me to classify them intelligently.
Skeleton spicules smooth straight or slightly curved rather abruptly pointed  an occasional one acuate or malformed.
Outer dermal film charged with minute straight or curved .smooth slender gradually pointed acerates.
Approximate measurements.
Diameter of gemmules 002 inches.
Skeleton spicules 00113 by 000033 inches.
Length of dermal spicules 0'00144 inches.
Habitat.
Upon logs and timlers several feet below the surface of clear standing water or upon sphagnum grass weeds etc.
near the surface.
Locality.
Collected at Doughty's Pond Absecum New Jersey  Brown's Mills N. J. Deep Creek near Portsmouth Virginia etc.
Remarks.
This sponge was first collected by Mr. E. P. Cheyney a very acute observer during the summer of 1879 or 1880 in one of the Cedar swamps near the New Jersey coast.
In October 1881 the writer himself collected it and since that date it has been the subject of frequent and careful observations.
Doubt Avas at first felt as to whether the apparent branches were really selfsupporting but this was long since set at rest and the species is now seen to stand securely near S. lacustris but not of it.
Some interest may be felt in the following description of its favorite and characteristic locality.
The S. E. portion of the State of New Jersey is for the most part a broad sandy plain not greatly elevated above tide level.
It was formerly covered by a dense growth chiefly of scrub pines and was known as the Pine Barrens.
The few depressions through this district form water courses along which the drainage of the surrounding neighborhood creeps sullenly through jungles of cedar mingled with maple magnolia and other deciduous growths.
Just before Absecum Creek which has thus wandered for miles through densely wooded cedar and maple swamps finally loses its identity in the Thoroughfare that winds for many a mile among the still flatter marsh lands that line the coast a low milldam checks its course and forces it to spread its clear dark waters over acres of refreshing pools dotted with reedfringed islets.
Here in clumps grow the curious leaves and umbrellalike flowers of the American Pitcher Plant on the margin of the pond are many orchids those most aristocratic of flowers in the hollows the Droseras or Sundews are doing their best to entrap a few of our insect enemies.
The trees that years before had darkened the glen with 13 their shade killed by the too abundant water now stand iaunt and desolate above it bearded with moss that hangs and flutters from their otherwise naked branches.
At many places in this beautiful pond the fallen timbers waterlogged at depths of three to six feet are lined for yards with this sponge sometimes only as a smooth green enveloping sheet but at other places reaching out long radiating branches for six iuchCvS or more swayed delightfully by the clear current.
Not only in the perfect days of June or through the heats of midsummer is the sponge thus verdant and thrifty  but when December has robbed the lake of most of its vegetable forms even after February hti.s for weeks covered it with a thick sheet of ice the sponge ha.s been seen still green and apparently in as healthy growth as ever.
Concurrently with this evergreen habit we notice the unusual scarcity of gemmules at all times of the year and feel warranted in inferring that gifted as it is with this ability to withstand a low temperature in its growing state it does not need to form protected gemmules to conserve its life during hybernation.
In the microscopical study of S. aspinosa the distinctive feature is undoubtedly the presence upon the dermal film and amongst the generally smooth slender skeleton spicules of great numbers of minute smooth acerates.
These are not altogether uniform iu size however and enough of an intermediate character are occasionally seen to suggest the possibility that they may be merely initial and immature conditions of the skeleton spicules.
The continued perennial growth of the sponge makes this supposition the more probable as there is no season in which as in the case of most other sponges it may be said to have reached maturity or completeness.
In some preparations of it aborted forms of skeleton spicules are found in considerable numbers and spherical or discoidal masses of silica without spinous prolongations or with but a single spine are not infrequently met with.
2 Spongilla lacustris Linn.
I'l.
V tig.
1 PI.
VII.
Branched  branches long round and sharppointed.
Color dark brown structure fibrous.
Skeleton spicule curved fusiform gradually sharp pointed smooth sometimes more or less spiniferous.
Flesh spicule thin curved fusiform gradually sharppointed spined throughout.
Statoblast when fully developed globular crust composed of granular cellstructure charged with more or less curved minute stout fusiform sharp pointed acerates covered with stout recurved spines arranged tangentially or centrifugally like the lines of a socalled engineturned watch case.
Carter Ann.
etc.
1881.
Syn.
European See Vejdovsky Diagnosis under Euspongilla lacustris.
p. 172 etc.
Syn.
American 1863 Spongilla paupercula Bowerbank 1863  dmosoni  1875  fiexispina Dawson.
1879  lacustrioides Potts.
1880  ahortiva 1880  mutica 1880  montana  1881  mnltiforis Carter.
1884  lehighensis Potts.
As this is the most widely known of all the fresh water sponges and deserves a full and careful treatment besides the analysis of it given by Prof. Vejdovsky under his name Euspongilla lacustris I have also copied Mr. Carter's description above and now append the result of my own observations founded upon collections in all parts of this country.
As found in infinite numbers of situations and variety of forms in North America this sponge is green when growing as it does by preference in the light from a sessile base freely and repeatedly branching branches cylindrical or more or less tapering bristling with the points of radiating spicules  ends of the branches pointed or rounded.
Texture loose the branching processes made up of thick longitudinal lines of fasciculated spicules united by single spicules or more slender fascicles in a radiating manner.
Pores numerous large.
Gemmules subspherical often scarce until late in the year November when they are formed quite plentifully in the interspicular spaces not only in the sessile portion but throughout the branches of the sponge.
Granular crust of the gemmules very variable in thickness  in soine forms altogether wanting.
Foraminal aperture infundibular.
Skeleton spicules curved fusiform gradually sharp pointed almost uniformly smooth.
Dermal or flesh spicules variable in number but generally very numerous  curved fusiform gradually tapering to sharp points  densely and entirely spined.
Gemmule spicules generally cylindrical much and variably curved somewhat sparsely spined  spines more numerous near the extremities where they are long acute and frequently recurved.
Upon the gemmules they vary from a horizontal to a nearly erect position according to the thickness of the crust and for the same reason are sometimes wanting and at others very numerous.
Hah.
On stones and timbers everywhere preferring running water.
Measurements.
Diameter of gemmules 0.02 inches.
Average length of skeleton spicules about 0.0108 inches.
Remarks.
Spongilla lacustris is certainly not introduced in this connection on account of any claims I desire to make as to authorship or discovery  but rather in the way of recantation or confession that in times past I have so frequently mistaken this namechild of the great Linnseus clucking to it as one of my own little brood.
Indeed it is to save others from a similar experience that I am particular to make this identification.
This species was one of the earliest known  though for years the distinction between it and SpongiUa now Meyenia fiuviatilis was far from clear.
It has been found in nearly all parts of the world where any sponges have been discovered.
AVhile many of the fresh water sponges appear to shun the light S. lacnstris comes out boldly and flourishes in the full sunshine.
For this reason and because of its resultant brilliant green color and its conspicuous branchinghabit this sponge is better known than any other and is more frequently gathered by the nonexpert collector.
I have received it from nearly all my correspondents in the United States and from almost every locality in Avhich any have been collected.
In every place it prefers rajiidly running water where its growth is strong and vigorous.
Perhaps my finest specimens were gathered .at a place in Chester Creek Pennsylvania where the stream was narrowed to a width of ten or twelve feet rushinsr between large imasses of rock many of which were coated with the sessile sponge and beautifully fringed with tapering fingerlike processes one half inch or more in diameter by several inches in length.
In standingpools on the contrary it grows in slender cylindrical branches as in the subsiding reservoirs on Fairmount Hill Philadelpliia where it appears in slender flaccid yellowgreen branches with hardly sufficient vitality to support themselves above the mud slowly gathering around them. While S. lacustris is extremely variable as to some particulars upon this continent as Prof. Vejdovsky describes it to be also in Europe in essentials the synonyms I have named resemble one another and the European type.
These essentials for comparison I again describe as follows  1st.
In general appearance a green branching sponge.
2nd.
Skeleton made up of smooth fasciculated spicules.
3rd.
Dermal or flesh spicules fusiform acerates entirely spined pointed.
4th.
Gemmule spicules whether few or many generally cylindrical more or less curved rather sparsely spined spines often recurved acute.
5th.
Gemmules either apparently wanting or abundant throughout the sponge  with or without granular crust.
As all the sponges above named will bear this description I cannot see sufficient reason for separating them from the typical form but many for grouping all together.
Some whose peculiarities are most conspicuous will be briefly described as varieties.
S. lacustris var.
paupercula Bowerbank.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond.
1863 p. 470.
Sponge coating and branching  surface smooth.
Oscula and pores inconspicuous.
Dermal menbrane aspiculous .
Skeleton spicules fusiformacerate stout and rather short.
Interstitial membranes aspiculous.
Ovaries globular smooth  spicula acerate.
small few in number.
Bowerbank.
Loc.
Water pipes of Boston Mass.
S. paupercula Bk.
is perhaps that one of this group of synonyms about whose identity with S. lacustris there may be most hesitation Its character is somewhat anomalous as its locality and associations' are peculiar.
See remarks as to 3f.
fiuvtatilis v.
acuminata.
Growing originally in the ponds and reservoirs tributary to the Boston watersupply it moved forward and even so early as 1856 Prof. J. W. Bailey wrote to Dr. Bowerbank that it grows abundantly in the water pijes aqueducts 
by which the city of Boston is supplied with water from a small lake adding a suggestion as to the This is thus far the only instance in which I have found any sponge apparently growing upon a mud bottom  and even here it was doubtless planted upon something firmer and the length of its branches was robably induced by the effort to lift itself up into greater purity and freedom.
possible diminution of the water way and contamination of the drinking water by its further growth.
I have not had an opportunity to examine the type specimen from Avhich the above description by Dr. Bowerbank was prepared but from the study of fragments received from Mr. Desmond FitzGerald Chief Engineer of the Boston Water Department collected by him from Farm Pond and Cochituate Reservoir near the head of the water system of that city in all pi'obability the same that Dr. Bowerbank describes I am induced to class this as one of the many varieties of S. lacustris.
In the dry state the sponge is very friable and its dermal surface soon crumbles off which may in a measure account for the apparent absence of dermal and interstitial spicules from Dr. B's specimens.
Mr. H. J. Carter records the finding of acerate dermal spicules in those received by him from the same locality and I have found them though few in number in the fragments .sent to me.
We may regard therefore the dermal and interstitial surfaces of S. paupercula as not aspiculous and assert that those found are not entirely smooth  as in nearly all a few spines may be discovered articularly near the extremities.
The gemmule spicules are equally scarce and without pronounced character  their relative smoothness and greater proportionate length than in most other forms of this species are the noteworthy points.
The gemmules are quite numerous large and entirely devoid of crust.
Their shrunken contents appearing through the transparent crustless chitin give them a peculiar waxen cast.
It will be noted us has before been incidentally njentioned that in this as in other cases a paucity of gemmule spicules attends as a necessary consequence the absence of an enveloping crust.
S. lacustris  ir.
dawsoni Bowerbank.
VnK.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1S63 pg.
4G7.
Sponge sessile branching  surface smooth.
Oscula and pores inconspicuous.
Dermal and interstitial membranes abundantly spiculous s2icula fusiformacerate entirely spined  spines numerous short and conical.
Skeleton spicula acerate or subfusiformacerate.
Ovaria spherical  dernal spicula numerous disposed in iiat fasciculi or groups of sicules parallel to each other 
 groujs irregularly disersed  spicula acerate or subcylindrical entirely spined spines numerous obtuse and ill defined.
Sarcode aspiculous.
Color in the dried state emerald green.
Bowerbank.
S.
eat.spma Dawson.
Syn.
Canadian Iat.
and Geol.
Sept. 1875.
V.
lacusfrioides lotts Syn.
This name was at first suggested under the belief that a distinct specific difference existed between the European and the American forms  an idea that has long since been given up.
I now think the resemblance of these forms is quite as close as that of most of those grouped under this name in North America.
8. mutica Potts Syn.
This term was applied to an ordinary form of S. lacustris during the earlier part of my explorations before I had learned that it was a very common habit of this species to be without both crust and gemmule spicules.
S. lacustris var.
abortiva Potts.
The name abortiva was given to a form of S. lacustris first noticed at Fairmount Dam Philadelhia in which careful examination during the summer and autumn montlis of several years had failed to discover any gemmules.
About the 22nd of November 1883 however upon again collecting the sponge in its original locality 1 found in one instance the green sarcode leaving the lines of skeleton spicules and collecting in spots where a few days later were found well defined but immature gemmules entirely smooth and of a vivid green color  a feature that lasted all winter.
Some fragments in this condition were brought into the house and the warmth of the room was found not merely to retard the completion of the gemmules but in many cases to reverse the flow of the amoeboid particles which began to reform and rebuild the skeleton framework.
To quote from my note book of that date The appearance of the sponge as now found was as if the cells of green sarcode had congested or gatliered together from their normal position upon the supporting spicules and liad just formed immature statoblasts with a very delicate chitinous covering and as yet without eitlier a granular crust or embedded spicules.
The skeleton spicules in most cases were entirely bare and the statoblasts bright green.
Of another specimen of the same sponge it is remarked.
This resembled the last mentioned gathering except that in some jlaces the statoblasts were merely localized by a gradual flowing together of the green sarcode into spots  and the globular shape and chitinous coat of the gemmules had not yet been attained.
The whole of this observation has been of great interest to me first as indicating the necessity of caution in accepting statements asserting the entire absence of gemmules from sponges collected by indifferent observers from remote districts where tlieir life history has never been followed next from the light thrown upon the character of these bodies  that they are probably neither ova nor ovariain any proper sense but may be ems or gemmules just as in the vegetable world we regard the buds of trees bulbs tubers etc  places where the vital particles of the animal or the plant retire for protection during the winter season and for successful distribution in the spring farther that this act is coincident with the disappearance at least partially of the sarcode from those parts of the sponge where the gemmules are found  and that it takes place in different situations and with varying species at widely different seasons of the year.
S. lacustris var.
montana Potts.
PI.
VII fig.
vi.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1880 p. 357.
This variety was first sent to me by Prof. E. D. Cope as collected in the well known Lake near the Mountain House on Catskill Mts. N. Y. at an elevation popularly stated to be 2500 feet above tide.
Afterward at my request.
Dr. J. G. Hunt kindly sought for and found it at the same locality.
As received from the latter collector the sponge was bright green with slender cylindrical branches.
Gemmules quite numerous throughout the sponge  often naked but also frequently covered by a thick crust and an abundance of spicules that are placed in a nearly erect position embedded in the crust.
Skeleton spicules long very slender cylindrical abruptly pointed.
Dermal spicules apparently very scarce slender minute acerates  entirely spined.
None are represented in the drawing.
Gemmule spicules slender cylindrical  more sparsely spined  spines erect long cylindrical  terminations rounded.
Meas.
Diameter of gemmules 0.015 inches.
Skeleton spicules 0.0096 by 0.00015 inches.
Length of dermal spicules 0.00375  of gemmule spicules 0.002 inches.
This sponge in all its parts is a very slender edition of iS lacustris but I think deserves a varietal designation.
S. lacustris var.
multiforis Carter.
Ann.
etc.
1881 p. 88.
I understand Mr. Carter to agree with me in now regarding this as a variety of S. lacustris the multiple openings being probably the result in degree of over maturity.
There are no distinctive features except that the skeleton spicules in the fragments sent me are unusually large.
S.lacustris var.
lehighensis Potts.
PI.
YII fig.
v. In this variety we find the skeleton and dermal spicules normal while those of the gemmules are disproportionately large.
The gemmule itself is relatively small with an unusually thick granular crust through which embedded like ehevaiix de frise the spicules project their points crossing their lines in every direction.
These are long cylindrical with long spines  those near the extremities often recurved ' terminations acute.
Loc.
Lehigh river Pennsylvania near White Haven.
Meas.
Diameter of gemmule 0.016 inches.
Skeleton spicules 0.01035 by 0.00045 inches.
Length of dermal spicule 0.002  of gemmule spicule 0.004 inches.
A somewhat similar form was collected at May's Landing New Jersey  but in this the chitinous body was very thick  the granular crust less conspicuous  the spicules fewer larger and less regular in position and character.
PI.
VII fig.
iv.
It may be briefly described thus  Sponge green encrusting  not consiicuously branched.
Gemmules small crust thin enveloped in a specialized capsule of interlacing skeleton spicules.
Skeleton spicules stout subfusiform smooth gradually pointed.
Dermal spicules rather large.
Gemmule spicules variably robust abundantly spined  spines long acute retrorse.
Meas.
Length of skeleton spicules 0.0105  of dermal spicules 0.0021  of gemmule spicules 0.004 inches.
Loc.
May's Landing N. J.
3 Spongilla Euspongilla rhenana Retzer.
See Diagnosis.
p. 174 etc.
4 Spongilla alba Carter.
Ann.
etc.
1881 p. 88.
Massive spreading subbranched.
Structure fragile tomentose.
Color whitish.
Skeleton spicule curved fusiform gradually sharjpointed smooth.
Flesh spicule thin curved fusiform covered with spines longest in the centre where they are vertical and obtuse.
Statoblast globular  aperture infundibular  crust thick white composed of granular cellstructure charged with minute thick acerates which are curved cylindrical round at the ends covered with spines especially about the extremities where they are longest and much recurved arranged tangentially intercrossing each other like the lines of an engineturned watchcase.
Carter.
Loc.
Bombay.
Mr. Carter observes  The spicules of the statobhist here as well as in S. lacustris are considerably stouter more curved cylindrical and more coarsely spined than the flesh spicules of the sponge generally.
5 S. cerebellata Bk Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
1863 p. 465.
Carter thinks this is but a variety of the preceding species.
6.
Sponge not branched.
6 Spongilla carteri I5oweibank.
 S. fl'iabiliS. Curter.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
etc. 1.S63 p.
46.
Sponge massive sessile.
Color greenish or faint whitish yellow structure fragile crumbling.
Skeleton spicule smooth fusiform curved gradually sharppointed.
Statoblast globular  aperture infundibular  crust composed of pyramidal columns of dodecahedral or polyhedral cells hexagonal in the section regularly arranged one above another in juxtaposition perpendicularly to the outside of the chitinous coat on which they rest  surrounded by a layer of minute fusiform curved and gradually sharppointed smooth acerates.
Carter.
Log.
Bombay Mauritius etc.
In the spring of 1885 specimens of this sjionge were kindly sent to me by Col. Nicolas Pike of Brooklyn New York who had collected them many years before while United States Consul at Mauritius.
He writes  The specimens sent you were gathered by me at the Botanical Gardens Pamplemousses Mauritius.
They were found growing in masses five or six inches in width three inches thick and about four in depth.
They fringed the southerly side of the pond about a foot below the surface of the water.
They were very green when first taken and rather firm in texture.
They covered a very limited area in this pond and were not found elseAvhere on the island.
The courtesy of this gentleman has enabled me to observe a peculiarity in the gemmules of his collection that was not mentioned as to those from Bombay.
While many of them appear to correspond with Mr. Carter's description above  aperture infundibular I find many others having a tubular prolongation of theforaminal orifice of a length fully one fourth the diameter of the gemmule.
These tubules are surrounded like the rest of the chitinous body with columns of relatively large polyhedral cells and as they partake of the brittleness of the songe when dry I fancy they must often be broken ofi and lost in carriage.
7 Spongilla nitens Carter.
Ann.
etc.
1881 p. 89.
Form of sponge unknown.
Structure reticulate  fibre rigid 'omposed of bundles of spicules united by a transparent colorless sarcode which in the dried state gives it a hardness and vitreous appearance like that of Spongilla corallioides Bk.
Skeleton spicule curved cylindrical smooth sometimes very slightly inflated in the centre and at the extremities which are round.
Statoblast globular aperture infundibular  crust composed of pyramidal columns of dodecahedral or polyhedral cells hexagonal in the section regularly arjanged one above another in juxtaposition perpendicularly to the outside of the chitinous coat on which by the intervention of a layer of the statoblast spicules they rest  surrounded by a layer of minute fiisiform curved acerates thickly sjiined especially over the ends where the spines are longest and recurved arranged tangeutjally  the same kind of layer immediately round the chitinous coat where the spicules appear to be intermixed with the lower cells of the crust leaving the latter free between the two.
Carter.
Loc.
Unknown  probably South America.
River Ugalla near Lake Tanganyika Central Africa.
See Spongilla bohmii.
8 Spongilla navicella Carter.
Ann.
etc.
1881 p. 87.
Sponge unknown.
Skeleton spicule curved fusiform smootlj gradually sharppointed.
Statoblast adherent to the twig on whicli the sponge had grown  globoelliptical  aperture terminal infundibular  no apparent crust  chitinous coat encased with a dense layer of minute stout short thick more or less curved fusiform smooth acerates variable in size becoming so short internally that is where they are in immediate contact with the chitinous coat as to be trapezoidal or like a little boat or cocked hat according to direction in which they are viewed  arranged tangentially crossing each other.
Carter.
Loc.
River Amazons S. A.
To the above description by Mr. Carter I am able to add but little that is positive excepting that so far as it goes it is most accurate.
Upon a leaf connected with the twig that supports a specimen of Parmula broivnii var. received from Dr. Rusby I find a dozen or more gemmules easily identified as belonging to this species.
They are sometimes entirely solitary  sometimes in groups of two to four or more of varying sizes but without other association than the intervention of some grayish sedimentary matter that has not been proven to belong to a parent sponge.
In no case do I find evidences of enveloping skeleton spicules excepting that immediately under and around eachgemmule it is seentobeuttressed and supported by scores of spicules of a skeleton type resting against it at many angles and attaching it to the supporting surface as Mr. Carter has said.
These by the way are obscurely microspined.
The aperture of the slightly elliptical or prospharoidal gemmule is always found at one of its poles and is prolonged into a tubule of moderate length provoking the comparison to a tortoise with its head protruded.
The layer of gemmulespicules is dense because they are not crossed but lie nearly parallel Avith each other as if stroked with a brush and in a nearly transverse direction corresponding with the shorter axis of the ellipse.
The normal character of the living sponge remains as Carter left it an unsatisfied problem  but the absence of surrounding spiculessuggests to me the possibility that the minute body of Sjiongilla navicella is simply a firmer sarcode unsupported by a skeleton frame work.
9 Spongilla bombayensis Carter.
Ann.
etc.
1882 p. 369.
General form of sponge unknown.
Statoblast sessile globular more or less grouped and firmly attached to the stems of the herbaceous plant upon which it had grown  variable in size under r of an inch diameter composed of a spiculiferous capsule a chitinous coat which is also spiculiferous and the usual germinal contents but no distinct cellular coat.
Spicules of the statoblast slightly curved thick cylindrical more or less obtuse at the ends  about 9 by 26000 ths.
of an inch in greatest dimensions  and another comparatively thin fusiform and more or less pointed at the ends about 10 by 16000 ths.
inches in greatest dimensions  both thickly spined and varying in stoutness inversely with their proximity to the surface  arranged horizontally so that the ends do not project beyond the level of the statoblast where they more or less cross each other and are held together by granules the microcell structure
 appearing also in the chitinous coat when they do not cross each other but form a single layer in which the spicules lie more or less parallel to each other in various directions so as to present a damascened appearance.
Skeleton spicules of one form only viz.acerate.
curved fusiform gradually sharppointed smooth or microspined about 22 by 11800 th.
inch in their greatest dimensions.
Aperture of statoblast sunken single or in plurality lined by a tubular projection of the chitinous coat.
Carter.
Loc.
Island of Bombay.
10 Spongilla botryoides W. A. Haswell.
Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
N. S. AVales 1882 p. 209.
Sponge yellow encrusting skeleton spicules curved fusiform sparsely microspined  statoblast spicules short strongly curved with heads composed of numerous short blunt or subacute spines.
Shaft free from spines.
Haswell.
Loc.
Pond near Brisbane Australia.
11 Spongilla sceptrioides W. A. Haswell.
Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
N. S. Wales 1882 p. 209.
Skeleton spicules microspined  statoblast spicules cylindrical spined particularly near the head.
Loc.
Pond near Brisbane Australia.
12 Spongilla cinerea Carter.
Ann.
and.
Mag.
1881 p. 107.
Flat spreading  surface slightly convex presenting gentle eminences and depressions.
Color cinereous  texture compact fine friable.
Skeleton spicule curved fusiform gradually sharppointed minutely spined.
Statoblast globular  aperture infundibular  rust thick white composed of microcell substance charged with minute acerate spicules which are curved cylindrical aljruptly sharppointed and coarsely spined tliroughout  arranged more or less tangentially intercrossing.
Carter.
Loc.
Bombay.
13 Spongilla fragilis Leidy.
PI.
V fig.
ii PI.
VIII figs i ii iii iv.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1851 p. 278.
Syn.
European See Vejdovsky Diagno.is.
.
176.
Syn.
American.
1863 S. lordii Bowerbank 1875 S. ottaivaensis Dawson.
1880 S. morgiana Potts.
8. calumeti B. W. Thomas.
1880 S. fragilis var.
minuta Potts.
1880 S'.
fragilis var.
minutissima Potts.
S. fragilis var.
irregularis Potts.
S. segregata.
Potts.
Sponge discoidal lichenoid growing in patches flat oval or circular lobate at margin translucent yellowish white or cream colored.
Areolae distinct subcircular.
Reproductive bodies arranged in a single close layer at the base of the attachment of the sponge  shining whitish yellow elevated into a central papilla upon the upper surface.
3eas.
From one half inch to two inches in diameter by one to one and a half lines in thickness at the centre and gradually thinning off to the margin.
Hab.
Grows upon the underside of stones below lowwater mark in the rivers Delaware and Schuylkill Structure.
Composed of an intertexture of spiculai about one four hundredth of an inch long having a minutely tuberculatcd surface over which is reflected a granulocellular membrane.
Remarks.
After the death of the sponge the areolated tissue macerates off leaving the reproductive bodies in a close layer attached to the rock.
The living sponge is never green
 nor does it ever grow exposed to the light.
Leidy.
I have thought best to preface my own description of this species as seen and collected in multitudes of localities by the above original description by its discoverer Dr. Leidy.
I append the following from my note book At the Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
January 31st.
1885 reexamined type specimen on a stone of 'S.
fragilis presented by J. Leidy' taking a few spicules and statoblasts for comparison.
After mounting PI.
VIII iig.
i I find the skeleton spicules average 0.0081 inches the dermal spicules 0.0027 inches in length.
One four hundredth inches as given iu his description corresponds with the decimal fraction 0.0025 inches  and my measurement therefore agrees very nearly with Dr. Leidy 's of the dermal or flesh spicules.
He does not describe those of the skeleton.
See further remarks as to its identification later.
I would describe it as follows  Sponge varying from a nearly white to a bright green according to its exposure to the light  encrusting in subcircular patches thin at the edges occasionally one or more inches thick near the middle.
Surface smooth or more or less tuberculated  pores and osteoles numerous  the latter sometimes one fourth inch or more in diameter at the confluence of several of the larger canals.
Texture more compact than that of S. lacustris.
PI.
V fig.
ii.
Gemnudic abundant  primarily in one or more iavement layers generally found at the base of the sjonge  their foramina prolonged into tubes upon the upper or outer side  frequently curving to one side but not flaring like the funnel of a steamboat.
In other positions the gemmules are found in compact groups of varying numbers the foraminal tubules uniformly opening oiUivard.
PI.
V fig.
ii B.
In all situations they are enveloped in a parenchyma of spherical cells of nearly uniform size made polygonal by contact charged with multitudes of spinous acerates.
Skeleton spicules slightly curved smooth rather abruptly pointed.
PI.
VIII fig.
i ii iii iv.
a a a.
True dermal spicules wanting.
Gemmule spicules or those embedded in the parenchyma 1L VIII as above b c.
etc.
either cylindrical or larger at the middle and slightly tapering toward the extremities which are truncate rounded or with a single terminal spine entirely spined  spines erect conical or rounded generally largest near the ends of tlie spicule.
Approximate measurements.
Diameter of gemmules 0.02 inches.
Length of skeleton spicules 0.0075 inches  of gemmule spicules 0.003 inches.
Sab.
Standing or running water everywhere  rather affecting the former.
Loc.
In all parts of North America heard from  Europe etc.
The proper identification of this sponge which was the first described as discovered upon the American Continent has become a subject of particular interest on account of its recent discovery it several points in the Eastern Hemisphere.
The original description by Prof Leidy has just been quoted.
It will be remarked that although the date of its publication was a dozen years prior to that of Dr. Bowerbank's Monograph 1863 the name does not appear in his list of species.
This is explained by the absence of illustrations from Dr. Leidy's text and the unfortunate circumstance as narrated by Dr. B. in his description of Meyenia leidyi that the sponge sent to him marked ''S.
fragilis did not correspond with the accompanying description but proved upon examination to belong to a novel and quite different species.
Dr. Bowerbank consequently ignored S. fragilis as imperfectly described and was followed by H. J. Carter in a similar omission.
I take pleasure in restoring the name to its proper place in the literature of the subject associating it with the species now described for the following reasons In 1878 or 1879 my attention was first attracted to the subject of freshwater sponges by the discovery of a few gemmules resembling a rustcolored incrustation upon a stone from Lansdowne Run Philadelphia.
Noticing the variation of the truncate flesh spicules from the pointed acerates in the descriptions of S.
lacustris and S. fluviatilis then only known to me the sponge to which they belonged was.
not unreasonably perhaps supposed to be new and the name Spongilla morgiana was suggested for it Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
July 1880 from a fanciful resemblance of the gemmules Avith their upright foramina to the jars in which the Forty Thieves were so neatly done in oils by that consummate artist.
On coming to a knowledge of Dr. Leidy's description some months later I sought and found this sponge in his Dr. L's original localities.
Kepeated comparison of the sponge with the above description resulted in the conviction of their entire agreement if we regard the author as examining a mass of sessile gemmules after the skeleton spicules had been generally removed.
At last a small stone was discovered in in the museum of the Philadelphia Academy to which was attached the legend in the author's handwriting S. fragilis presented by J. Leidy and still bearing a few gemmules and spicules of the same species.
The identification was then complete and S. lordii Bk.
1863  S. ottawaensis Dawson 1875  and S. morgiana Potts 1880 became synonyms.
Next to S. lacustris Spongilla fragilis is the most widely distributed American species  having been found in most of the United States and in all varieties of situations.
It seems to grow indifferently in rapidly flowing streams in currentless reservoirs and even in nearly stagnant pools.
Where it is found at all the specimens are usually abundant.
Upon one occasion when the water was withdrawn from the canal basin at the head of the locks at Fairmount Dam Philadelphia the exposed perpendicular walls of dressed stone were seen to be lined with them probably hundreds in number some of minute size but many covering two or three square feet of surface.
They were rarely much more than an inch thick near the middle and shaded off all around to filmy edges.
They had no apparent ireference for the comparatively rough surface of the stones for some of the finest specimens were found upon the timbers of the gates from which they were easily removed.
The large size of the efferent osteoles in this species is a conspicuous feature  and within each of them can be seen the terminations of five or six of the larger canals.
When mature say in August or later the pavement layer of gemmules may generally be found at the base of such specimens  and in those still older the segregate or grouped forms are frequently abundant in the higher parts of the sponge.
These groups were not observed or described by Dr. Leidy and when first noticed by myself were supposed to indicate either a new species or variety  but it was long ago discoverd that to a greater or less extent they formed a characteristic feature of all types of Spong ilia frag Ills.
It has seemed to me that while the pavement layer of gem mules was firmly attached to its base of support indicating a purpose to reproduce the sponge at the same place the groups which are not so attached and are liberated by the sloughing away of the skeleton spicules during the winter season float off and serve to propagate the species in distant localities.
They must not be understood to be merely accidental collections of gemmules in the same neighborhood and without coherence as is the case with those of S. aspinosa but to be closely and jermanently associated and embedded in a mass of compact cellstructure the cellular crust of Carter the external parenchyma of Vejdovsky sometimes but three or four together PI.
V fig.
ii B.
compared by H. J. Carter to the tetraspores of Selaginella sometimes a dozen or more very irregularly grouped but always with their foraminal tubules projecting outtvard through the crust  in which vast numbers of spined spicules are embedded.
The spicules of this class are very variable in shape in the different localities in which this species has been found  being long or short  robust or.
slender  truncate or pointed  while the general characteristics of the species remain unquestionable.
A few varieties that appear constant have been named.
Upon nearly every slide of prepared gemmules or spicules may be seen a few abnormal spherical forms bristling with spines and reminding one of the pollen of Mai vaceous plants or the caltrops in sometime military use.
S.fragilis S. lordii Bowerbank.
Syn.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
1863.
Dr. Bowerbank's description is here copied for convenient reference.
The species would have been good in his name had it not been antedated twelve years by Dr. Leidy.
Sponge sessile coating  surface even smooth.
Oscula
simple dispersed.
Pores inconspicuous.
Dermal membrane pellucid aspiculous.
Skeleton spicula acerate.
Ovaria congregated on the basal membiane very numerous  spicula entirely spined fusiformcylindrical dispersed on the surface.
Basal membrane abundantly spiculous  spicula dispersed same as those of the ovaries.
Color ochreous yellow to green.
14 Spongilla fragilis S. segregata Potts.
Syn.
My error in separating this form has been acknowledged.
S. fragilis S. calumeti Thomas.
Syn.
This form has very robust gemmule spicules.
PI.
VIII fig.
iii.
S. fragilis var.
minuta Potts.
PI.
VIII fig.
iv.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sei.
1880 p. 357.
This varietal name was given to a sponge first found at Lehigh Gap Pennsylvania in which the gemmules were much smaller than in the typical form while the surrounding spicules were nearly double the length of those of the same class in it and were nearly always terminated by a single sharp spine.
It has since been found at several other localities.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules 0.01 by 0.0004 inches.
Gemmule spicules 0.00463 by 0.00025 inches.
S. fragilis var.
minutissima Potts.
PI.
VIII fig.
ii.
The gemmules of var.
minutissima are still smaller than those of var.
minuta  the groups consist of greater numbers of individuals  the cellstructure surrounding them is still coarser and more conspicuous.
The skeleton spicules of those collected in Lake Hopatcong New Jersey alt.
1200 ft. above tide.
are very slender and although gathered in October often centrally inflated.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules 0.
0064 by 0.00015 inches  gemmule do.
0.00397 by 0.0001 inches.
S. fragilis v. irregularis Potts.
In this which was also collected at Lake Hopatcong the skeleton spicules are short and slender  gemmule spicules irregularly bent and inflated.
Meas.
Length of skeleton spicules 0.0042 inches  of genunule do.
0.003 inches.
14 Spongilla igloviformis.
Potts n. sp.
PI.
V fig.
iii.
PI.
VIII fig.
v. Sponge light or dark brown encrusting thin  surface somewhat corrugated or smooth excepting the projecting points of spicules.
Lines of skeleton spicules much dispersed forming no recognizable intertexture  the sarcode in this species being at its maximum in relation to the skeleton spicules which are seen at their minimum as to numbers.
Gemmules very numerous in compact groups of eight or ten to twenty or more irregularly disposed upon but not attached to the supporting surface.
These groups are approximately hemispherical in shape resting upon a flat subcircular side or base above which they form a domeshaped mass suggesting a resemblance to the igloe or hut of an Eskimo PI.
V fig.
iii.
A..
The foraminal apertures of the gemmules composing these groups contrary to their uniform habit in S. fragilis all open inward apparently communicating with a central cavity within the mass or group.
Each gemmule as in the last named species is enveloped in a cellular parenchyma which also by short isthmuslike bands connects it with the adjoining gemmules and finally compacts the members of a group together but whereas the parenchymal cells of S. fragilis are nearly uniform in size these are very variable being large upon the superfices of the gemmule proper and npon the outer surface of the envelope  while the interior cellstructure is with difficulty resolvable under a onefifth objective.
This parenchyma is densely charged with echinating spicules.
Skeleton spicules very few subfusiform but somewhat enlarged near the terminations then abruptly pointed or rounded  sparsely microspined  spines short obtuse.
PL VIII fig.
v a.a. Gemmule spicules exceedingly numerous nearly as long as those of the skeleton  subfusiform abruptly pointed entirely spined.
Spines long acute  perpendicular at the middle of the spicules while those near either end are strongly recurved.
PI.
VIII fig.
V b.b.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules 0.0099 by 0.0004 inches  gemmule spicules 0.00657 by O.OOOt inches.
Sab.
Upon the lower side of timbers etc.
in Cedar swamps near the East coast of New Jersey.
Loc.
Collected as yet only near Absecum and Vineland N.J.
The points of difference between this species and S.
fragilis seem obvious.
I find them in the spinous character of the skeleton spicules  in the want of fibrous structure in the sponge itself in the different characters of the gemmule spicules  in the absence of a pavement layer of gemmules  in the peculiar flatsided arrangement of the groups and in the fact that the germinal apertures all open inward.
This sponge was discovered during a memorable visit to Doughty's Pond Absecum New Jersey December 1st.
1883.
The locality has i3een described in the general remarks under the head oi Spongilla aspinosa.
Just before leaving the place happening to draw up a submerged slab lying in shallow water near the sawmill I found irregularly scattered upon its under side a quantity of large lightcolored particles disconnected from any noticeable sponge growth and looking suspiciously like large grains of sawdust.
They were so much larger than ordinary statoblasts that not delaying to examine them minutely I filled one or two bottles on general principles merely and took them with me.
My pleasure in examining them after reaching home and chagrin at the recollection that contrary to my usual custom I had left the slab half drawn out of the water was such that I wrote by the next mail to the proprietor of the mill requesting him to restore the timber with the remaining embryos to their native element.
On two subsequent visits I was successful in finding and collecting growing sponges of this species exhibiting the peculiarities described in the technical part of this description.
From a somewhat similar pond in the neighborhood of Vineland N. J. my friend U. C. Smith Esq.
has on two occasions brought me gemmules of the same species.
From MacKay's Lake near Pictou Nova Scotia Mr. A. H. MacKay has kindly sent what seems to me the same or a nearly related species which was described a year later by Mr. Carter under the name of 15 Spongilla mackayi Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
Jan. 1885 p. 19.
Sponge sessile spreading  charged Avith little subglobular bodies like large statoblasts about one twelfth inch in diameter.
Skeleton spicules acerate slightly curved sharppointed more or less thickly spined averaging 50 by 226000ths.
inches in their greatest dimensions.
Statoblast globular consisting of a thick chitinous coat filled with the usual germinal matter from which is very slightly prolonged an everted trumpetshaped aperture  bearing slight traces externally of microcellstructure and the polygonal tissue  making one of twenty such which are so arranged as to form a subglobular body of the size mentioned  situated around a central cavity with their apertures inwards the Avhole supported by statoblast spicules of various sizes Avhich intercrossing each other form a nestlike globular capsule in which the outer parts of the statoblasts are fixed and covered  apparently for the specimen is dry deficient at one point Avhich leads into tlie central cavity.
Siatoblast spicules acerate sharppointed like the skeletal spicules but becoming much shorter and more coarsely spined as they approach the chitinous coats of the statobhists where they may be reduced to at least eUo ths.
inches in length although often increased to o'o ths.
inches in thickness and their spines which are very irregular in size and situation often as long as the spicule is broad.
Carter.
Loc.
MacKay's Lake near Pictou Nova Scotia.
16 Spongilla bohmii Hilgendorf.
Ann.
and Mag.
N. H. Vol.
XII ISS p. 122.
Sponge parasitic upon masses of Spongilla nitens appearing as an inconspicuous crust of only one millimetre in thickness  consisting of a very finemeshed delicate frame work.
The magnificent gemmulie are grouped in a single layer of from 8 to 12 within the skeleton but at the same time much projecting from it  always very few in number.
A delicate homogeneous lamella sharply divides the two species.
The skeleton spicules are similar in form to those of S. nitens but are only half their length and instead of being smooth are studded with roundish flattened tubercles Avhich at the ends approach considerably closer together.
They are accompanied by a four times smaller amphidiscoid form whose shaft is gently curved and bears at some distance from the the centre a small spherical elevation.
From a similar one at each end of the shaft proceeds five short pointed recurved prongs exactly as in a whorl.
These double whorls lie close to the large spicules and form with them the network the threads of which are' mostly but one spicule in thickness.
The gemmula
have not the layer of parenchyma  the spicules lie tangentially and in only a single layer  but they are densely crowded and at the same time minute  so that their number is very considerable and may exceed a thousand in one gemmule.
Each spicule is moderately curved cylindrical with only the last eighth or tenth tapering to a point.
The surface bears a moderate number of short acute spines  say 50 on the entire spicule.
Slightly abbreviated from M. Hilgendorf.
Loc.
River Ugalla near Lake Tanganyika Central Africa  collected by Dr. R. Bohm.
Through the good offices of my friend Mr. Carter and the kindness of Dr. Weltner of Berlin I have been favored to receive from Dr. Hilgendorf of the Berlin Zool.
Museum where it Avas deposited an excellent specimen of S. nitens bearing upon one of its surfaces a film of the above S. bdhmii ample for comparison with the next species S. novce terrce which in one point it most curiously resembles.
Havin. giyen above the very clear description by Dr. M. Hilgendorf it is needful only to explain that while such a layer of parenchyma around the gemmule as that seen in its associate species S. nitens is absent the gemmule of iS.
bdhmii is provided with a thick granular crust beneath which the gemmule spicules are embedded a capsule of skeleton spicules enveloping the whole.
The dermal or tlesh spicules as he describes them are niinute birotulates nearly resembling those of S. novce terrce and Meyenia everetti but somewhat larger than either the shafts are more frequently bent and a bolder enlargement at each extremity gives origin to more widely spreading hooked rays.
I incline to the opinion that the occasional inflations of the shafts of these spicules as well as of the spicules of the gemmule indicate a want of full matuiity in the specimen when gathered.
My interest in the description given of this little species by Dr. Hilgendorf was such as to induce me to ask through Mr. Carter the opportunity of making a personal examination of it more particularly to discover whether in it as in S. novce terrce the birotulate dermal wa.s associated with a gemmule acerate showing any tendency toward a birotulate form.
This I find is no more the case than in several other species oi'SponcUla  S'.
frciffilis for instance where there is also a grouing of recurved rays near the extremities.
The curious fact that a coincidence of type has here associated the Island of Newfoundland witli Central Africa will not escape the notice of any one  nor that a corresjionding form in a neighboring genus should only appear as yet in places so remote as a corner of Massachusetts and the Ijakes of Nova Scotia.
17 Spongilla novae terrae PoU..
Piof.
Acml.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila.
ISSl.
.
22S .c.
Sponge encrusting  sarcode of the young growth a dense mass of minute spherical cells embedding slender curving lines of fasciculated skeleton spicules developing later into a very loose open tis.iie with few connecting spicules.
Gemmules rather luniierous unusually large spiierical chitinoiLs 'oatthin crust apparently wanting.
Skeleton spicules relatively few slender cylindrical smooth or sparsely microspined  gradually pointed.
See cut.
Dermal or flesh spicules very abundant minute birotulates of unequal size  shafts slender cylindrical occasionally spined  outer 1887.
207 VVJ surface of rotules domeshaped  rays prolonged terminations acute  malformations frequent.
These are mixed with occasional linear spined spicules.
Gemmule spicules abundant crossing each other upon the crustless chitinous body.
Their .shape when smooth is robustfusiform with pointed terminations  the great majority however have from one to six or more long spines nonsymmetrically placed but with an evident tendency to group themselves at points about onefourth the length of the spicule from one or both of its extremities.
Meas.
Diameter of gemmules 0.036 inches  skeleton spicules 0.0068 by 0.0002 inches  length of average dermal birotulate 0.00066 inches and of those of the gemmulse 0.00145 inches.
Hab.
Encrusting stones in shallow water.
Loc.
Lakes or jonds in the vicinity of Heart's Content Newfoundland  collected by Mr. A. H. MacKay.
As the unusual features of this sponge give it a peculiar importance I am tempted to co2y the results of an entirely independent study of it bv my friend Mr. Carter taken from a letter written to the discoverer Mr. MacKay.
The comparison of it with that above given may be both interesting and instructive as showing how the same peculiarities ecjually new to both may impress different observers.
Specimen sessile spreading over two sides of a cubic stone about two inches in diameter about one sixth inch high in the center thinning off towards the circumference.
Color of the surface greenish  of the interior greyish brown.
Surface smooth shining in the dried state covering a parenchymatous structure beneath traversed by threadlike bundles of the skeletal spicules of the secies charged Avith statoblasts.
Statoblasts globular of different sizes but comparatively large generally  being often VcVths of an inch in diameter  covered in a tessellated manner by a single layer of short fusiform spicules in juxtaposition and all on the same level.
Fusiform spicule short thick and smooth fundamentally averaging 10 by 1OOOOth.inchin its greatest dimensions but variable in length presenting one to twelve spines most whimsically scattered over tlie surface so tliat no two spicules are alike in this respect.
Aperture of the statoblast single circular slightly marginated about exnjoths.
inch in diameter.
Skeletal spicule slightly curved smooth and gradually pointed comparatively small forming by overlapping each other linearly the threadlike bundles mentioned  about 40 by l6000ths.
inch in its greatest dimensions Dermal layer and tissue generally abundantly charged Avith minute birotulates almost identical with those of Meyenia everetti but a little larger and with longer and more recurved teeth at the terminations about ooths.
inch in length.
Loc.
Heart's Content Avalon Peninsula Newfoundland.
All the specimens of this sponge came from the neighborhood of Heart's Content but whether they were gathered from a lake upon the heights or from a brook mentioned by Mr. Mackay near the sea level does not seem entirely clear.
The accompanying illustration magnified 225 diameters will suggest the peculiarities of its skeleton crossed below dermal at lower corners and gemmular spiculation above.
The striking resemblance alluded to by Mr. Carter of the dermal spicules to the minute birotulates heretofore only known in a corresponding position in the cases of Meyenia everetti and Spongllla bohmii will at once impress the student.
These are however more variable in size are occasionally spined and have their rays more prolonged and more delicately terminated.
It is in the singular character of the spicules surrounding the gemmules that this species must attract peculiar attention.
As the reader must already have discovered the six genera included in Cart er's system may be divided into two principal groups  one of them iucluding only tlie genus Spongllla characterized by the linear acerate spicules surrounding the gemmules  and the other comprising all tlie other genera where the spicule of corresponding significance is a birotulate or some easily recognized derivative of that type.
AVithin this latter and larger group intermediate forms connecting the defined genera are frequent and the location of species upon one side or other of the distinctive line comparatively unimportant.
Heretofore between the genus Spongllla and those genera comprised in tlie other group there has been a great gulf fixed.
One only case in the past has suggested their possible association or the development of one group from the other.
By referring to the description of Meyeniajiuviatilis var acuminata mihi it will be seen that in that variety the shafts of the birotulates are prolonged at each extremity forming acuminate terminations some distance beyond the surface of the rotules.
It must be noticed also that in position these spicules are abnormal lying flat upon the chitinous coat instead of resting upon one rotule their shafts taking the position of radii as is usual in this genus.
We have here in fact spicules of a Meyenia occupying the ordinary positions and in degree approximating the forms of those regarded as peculiar to the Spongillce.
In the present species the intermediate character of the gemmulespicules is still more striking  and while their form and position probably more closely associate them with the genus Spongllla in which I have after considerable hesitation placed the species the grouping of ray like spines is foi'cibly suggestive of Meyenia  it will be therefore no cause for surprise if further examination shall cause its transfer to the sister genus.
It must not escape notice that in both of these instances the gemmulffi are without crust and as it is difficult to understand how birotulates could be supported in their ordinary positions without these embedding granules we may not unreasonably infer a possible relation of cause and effect between the change in position and the modification of type tliat we here find.
As this is the first novel species of fresh water sponge collected upon the Island of Newfoundland as also this is the highest latitude in North America from which any collections have been recorded it may be well to append to the above in which the original report to the Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
1886 has been closely followed the remarks of Mr. MacKay as to the extremes of temjDerature etc.
in that region.
He says The Island is not extreme in its temperature and the frost does not go very deep into the soil.
The lakes freeze in November or December with ice at least a foot in thickness and remain closed until the end of April.
The average temperature during eight years from 1857 to 1864 was 41.2 Fahr.
 average maximum thermometer during the same time 83 mimimum 7.
In the year 1879 the mean temperature was 40.2 Fahr  highest record August 3rd 82 lowest December 224.
In Nova Scotia though that is so much further south the range is far greater from .
9e to 20 or 24 Fahr.
 with an annual average of 44.
II Gen. MEYENIA Carter Ann.
and Mag.
etc.
1881 p. 90.
Gen. Char.
Skeleton spicules acerate curved fusiform pointed oirounded smootli or variably spined.
Gemmules globular or oval enveloped in a granular crust charged with birotulate spicules PI.
IX b. b.
etc.
of a single class or type radially arranged i. e. with one rotule resting upon or approximating to the chitinous coat the haft erect and the other rotule forming or projecting beyond the surface of the genunules.
PI.
V fig.
v and vi.
The existence of birotulate spicula then called amphidisks in t he crust surrounding the gemmulse of some sponges was first pointed out by F. J. F. Meyen 1839 who made them the distinctive cluiracteristics of SpongUla fluviat'dk thus distinguishing that species from S'.
lacustris witli which until that time it liad been constantly confused.
In his generic revision of the group finding that several species possessed the same peculiarity Mr. Carter with excellent taste grouped under the name of Meyen those that exhibited this feature in its simplest conditions.
Next to Spongilla in importance as it follows it in our classification the genus Meyenia appears to be the most widely diffused throughout tlie world  and its leading species M. Jiuviatilis like S. lacustris is found exhibiting many variations to perplex the student and tempt him to the creation of unnecessary names.
The following is presented as a guide to the approximate determination of the several species.
KKY TO THE SPFXIKS OK THE GENUS MEYENIA.
a Margins of birotulate spicules entire.
1 .
Skeleton spicules covered with powerful spines.
Spoollike birotulates upon the surface of the gemmulte covered with a deej parenchyma of laige cells.
Meyenia  Trochospongilla erenaeeus.
2.
Skeleton spicules smooth short robust margins of short birotulates exjiected each gemmule enclosed in a capsule of skeleton siicules.
PI.
V fig.
iv PI.
X fig.
i.
M. leidyi.
'.
Rotulie large fiat gemmules furnished with an envelope charged with spined spicules.
M. gregaria.
4.
Gemnniles about one fourth the size of those of other species.
M. minuta.
b Margins of hirotulate spicules rayed.
5.
Skeleton spicules either smooth or microspined  dermals wanting birotulates short shafts generally smooth margins of rotules irregularly rayed.
PI.
V tig.
v  PI.
IX figs i to iv.
M. fluviatilis.
6.
Birotulates in two or three series.
M. Ejhydatia mulleri.
See also genus Pleiomeyenia.
7.
Parasitic on S'.
lacustris foramina funnel shaped.
M. bohemica.
Si.
Birotulate spicules generally malformed shafts with enormous spines etc.
PI.
IX fig.
v. M. robusta.
II.
Birotulates rather long shafts smooth margins of rotules lacinulate.
PI.
X fig.
ii.
M. millsii.
10.
Rays and spines of birotulates subdivided or microspined.
PI.
IX fig.
vi.
M. subdivisa.
11.
Dermal spicules with long erect spines birotulates long spined rays incurved.
M. baileyi.
12.
Birotulates rather long margins crenulate or granular.
M. capewelli.
IH.
Gemmules flaskshaped aertures terminal birotulates very short obscure.
M. anonyma.
14.
Shafts of birotulates much spined.
M. ramsayl.
15.
Birotulates many times longer than the diameter of the hooked rotules shafts spiniferous.
PI.
V fig.
vi.
PL X fig.
v. M. crater if ormis.
1.
Gemniule birotulates long clublike.
Dermal spicules also birotulate minute.
PI.
X fig.
iii and iv.
31. everetti.
17.
Gemmule birotulates long spinous margins of rotules notched dermal spicules stellate.
PI.
X fig.
vi.
M. plumosa.
ci Margins of birotxdate spicules entire.
1 Meyenia Trochospongilla erenaceus Ehrcnburg.
Sec Vejclovskj's Diignosis.
.
177 In his description Prof Vejdovsky has not I think invested the parenchyma surrounding the gemmulte of this sjecies with sufficient importance.
From specimens which he has kindly sent to me I am led to regard this feature at least to this degree as unique amongst the sponges and I regret my inability to furnish an illustration of it.
I do not know whether the sponge mass bears any external resemblance to that of M. leidyi but they are unquestionably distinct species.
2 Meyenia leidyi Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
1881 p. 91.
 PI.
V. fig.
iii.
PI.
X fig.
i.
Spongilla leidxji Bk.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
1863 p. 445 etc.
Sponge sessile coating thin  surface tuberculated minutely hispid  oscula numerous small congregated elevated and marginated  pores consicuous.
Skeleton spicula acerate small short and stout rather obtusely terminated.
Dermal and interstitial membranes aspiculous.
Ovaria spherical small  dermal spicula birotulate minute short  shaft cylindrical  rotulse margins entire that of the outer one sometimes exflected and rarely spiculated.
Bowerbank.
The above is Dr. Bowerbank's original description after the examination of one dry specimen.
During the past six years I have collected the .species scores of times and perhaps in greater quantity than any other.
I will describe it as I have seen it.
Sponge of a peculiar light gray or drab color even when exposed to the light  encrusting thin.
Persistent  the growths of successive seasons forming as many series of thin lamina.
Surface even sometimes rising into smooth rounded prominences and at times covered with singular radiating or birdtracklike markings whose cause is not fully understood.
Pores and osteoles numerous minute  the latter being found along the radiate lines but not conspicuously at their confluence.
Texture very compact  composed of short spicules very slightly fasciculated  the primary lines and rincipal channels nearly perpendicular  with single intercalating spicules forming polyhedral interspaces.
Gemmules numerous subspherical deposited at the base of the sponge and in successive seasons in serial layers above or below 
the first.
Eacli mature gemmule is surrounded outside of the birotulate armature by a lattice work or capsule composed of spicules resembling those of the skeleton  an open space being left at the top around the short tubular foramen PI.
V fig iii.
A.
When more than one of these is present they are grouped together and the open space of the capsule is correspondingly enlarged.
Before maturity a granular crust embeds and surrounds the dense layer of sliort birotulates but after the latticed capsule is formed at least when examined in a dry state I have not been able to discover it.
Skeleton spicules short smooth robust Avhen mature very abruptly terminated almost rounded.
PI.
X fig.
i aaabb.
Dermal and interstitial surfaces aspiculous.
Birotulate spicules surrounding the gemmules very short umbonate  rotules sometimes twisted or contorted  margins entire  geneially exflected or turned up saucerlike away from the surface of the gemmule  the diameter of the outer rotule generally rather less than that of the proximal one.
PL X fig.
i cd etc.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules 000466 by 000045 inches.
Length of birotulates 000045 inches.
Diameter of large rotule 000055 inches and of shaft 00001 inches.
Hub.
Encrusting timbers and stone Avork at various probably sometimes at great depths.
Loc.
Found as yet only in the Schuylkill River and reservoirs near Philadelphia at Windmill Island in the Delaw'are River and near Phillipsburg New Jersey.
Several circumstances give to this species of fresh water sponge peculiar interest and importance.
Described at first from a specimen inadvertently sent by Prof Leidy to Dr. Bowerbank as mentioned by the latter in his Monograph Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
1863 p. 445 and already alluded to in my historical sketch of Spongilla fragilis it appears to have remained unseen and uncollected from 1863 until 1880 when the writer rediscovered it at the original locality the neighborhood of Fairmount Dam on the Schuylkill River Philadelphia.
I am not aware that any has been found elsewhere excepting at Windmill Island in the Delaware River near by and a single dry specimen origin unknown upon a stick which I picked up upon the bank high above the Delaware River at Phillipsburg New Jersey.
Fairmount Dam just mentioned and frequently referred to in these pages is of course already known to Philadelphians  but as it has been spoken of as one of the richest localities in the world for fresh water sponges a brief description of the situation may be allowed for the information of others.
It is situated at the head of tide water in the Schuylkill River within the limits of the City of Philadelphia.
It supplies upon one side a system of locks pertaining to the Schuylkill Navigation Co. and on the other pours its living floods through the magnificent turbine water wheels by which the pumps are operated that raise a large portion of the watersupply of the City to the subsiding and distributing reservoirs upon the summit of the neighboring Fairmount Hill.
The direction of the dam breast is not at right angles to the course of the stream but follows a line of rocks diagonally toward the northwest turning abruptly to the southwest when one or two hundred feet from the heavy masonry of the canal locks.
The exposed portions consist of heavy timbers and planking the top and a lower section being horizontal or nearly so connected by an inclined slide or shoot.
To increase the depth of the water above the dam for the benefit of the Philadelphia Water Works a series of planks have been hinged to the upper horizontal portion and are retained in a perpendicular position by inclined stays or props.
When the river is full the water stands against these and overflows them nearly two feet above the normal level of the dam.
During the summer season however the diminished supply i so drawn upon by the operation of the canal locks the water works and ordinary leakage that there is rarely any overflow for several months together.
At such times it has been my custom frequently to walk from one side of the river to the other upon the horizontal timbers examining at leisure the inner upper side of this planking and my collections have principally been made from their smooth surfaces when illuminated ly the afternoon sun every adherent growth was easily seen through the unruflled surface of the water.
Not that the stream is perennially unruflled by any means for at its best the wave from a passing steamboat is likely to flood the unwary scientist at an unexpected moment.
I only allude to this quiet hour with the declining sun nearly in front of the explorer as presenting the most favorable conditicms for collecting.
Upon a single visit I have gathered from these timbers specimens of'.
laaustris S. fnuilis M. leldijl M. fluviatilis and M. crateriformit with minute portions of H. argyrospernia.
The first three may be considered permanent inhabitants of the locality the others as occasional visitants.
In the forebay of the water works and in the reservoirs above M. leidyi is very abunchmt covering all standing timbers horizontal pipes and frame work as well as the dressed stone facings of the piers etc.
In tide water in both the Schuylkill and Delaware Rivers it is found at the greatest depth examined say eight feet below low water and probably grows much deeper  while most of our other sponges seem to prefer the neighborhood of the surface.
In the subsiding reseivoirs upon FairmountHill and in other places about Philadelphia it especially aftects the cribs and screens at the head of the discharge pipes.
When the water has been drawn otf for cleaning I have fiund it covering yards of surface at such places.
though it rarely attained an inch in tliickuess.
One such locality is particularly rememberedthe socalled Corinthian Avenue reservoir which had not been emptied for several years  here the finest specimens might have been gathered literally by the bushel and probably one half that measure was taken away in great slices or slabs under my arm.
These masses were almost certainly the results of many years undisturbed growth.
I have described this species as persistent to a degree unknown and almost impossible to imagine in the case of any other North American sponge.
The compactness of its skeleton texture is such that except in the event of actual violence such as the pressure of ice etc. I do not believe that the spicules slough away during the winter as do most of the others.
Its gemmules therefore are rarely liberated and the species in consequence is not largely diffused.
Transverse sections through the masses alluded to show an upper or outer layer about one eighth inch in thickness of skeleton spicules in their normal positions as formed  and below them a series of rather irregular lamina composed almost entirely of gemmules within their specialized lattice capsules.
The years of occasional study already given to this species leave several problems yet unanswered  prominent among which is that of the order of these serial growths which I must refer to my more successful followers.
My difficulty may be stated thus.
Let us suppose a sponge of this species at the end of its first season's growth.
It then undoubtedly consists of a layer of gemmules surmounted by a film of skeleton spicules.
There is reason to believe that little of the latter will be washed away during the winter season but when spring comes the contents of the gemmules escaping through their forarainal orifices will probably
reclothe the naked skeleton realizing Ezekiel's vision of the dry bones secrete fresh silica and at a slow rate continue the growth of the mass.
As the next season of hybernation arrives what must happen
A second layer of gemmules will be deposited  but where 
It does not appear to be at the summit of the sponge of the first season  for our section in that case would show a regular alternation of gemmules and of skeleton spicules in position.
Is the second layer then formed above the first of the series of gemmules or below it 
That is in my fragment now probably ten or twelve years of age are the most recent gemmules highest or lowest in the series 
I confess my inability as yet to answer the question.
If freshness of appearance is taken as a guide the latter seems the more probable supposition.
Numbers of gemmules without capsular covering are to be found in both situations and the foramiual openings which may be said to be generally upon the upper side are found in some parts of the series upon the lower.
The problem remains open.
The peculiar markings upon the external surface of the sponge fHm anothpr perplexing feature.
Upon other sponges we see the terminations of submerged canals partially exposed by the rupture of the thin dermal film which alone covered them  here the markings consist of spicular ridges sometimes slightly grooved along their summits and terminated at their divergent extremities by inclined efferent or afferent
orifices.
Those who are familiar with the appearance of young living sponges of other species wall remember that the dermal film is supported upon the points of projecting spicules at some distance above the denser mass of the sponge which it thus tympanizes to use a happy expression of Mr. Carter.
The vestibule thus formed in or around them is in M. leidyi probably on account of the shortness and nonfasciculated character of its spicules almost or entirely wanting and its place seems to be supplied when alive by the formation along the abovementioned ridges of external subcylindrical convergent canals that have not been mentioned in any other species.
Upon the only occasion in which I was able to experiment upon a living sponge in this condition I was puzzled to see the particles of carmine used in feeding it drawn through the pores into these channels and presently suckled downward into the body of the sponge instead of being borne forward and thrown out from them through a common orifice or chimney as is familiar in other cases.
Attempting no explanation of this reversal of ordinary methods I merely record it as an exceptional fact.
Within some fragments collected at Windmill Island were found many subspherical masses like large shot each containing three or four gemmules embedded not in jarenchymal cells but in a dense mass of skeleton spicules.
These have not been seen elsewhere.
Some question has been raised as to the presence in parts of this species of spined skeleton spicules.
As the result of a careful examination of large numbers of specimens I may state my belief that any such appearance has been due to the accidental intrusion of skeleton spicules of Tuhella pemisylvanica  which species has frequently been found in contact or in close proximity with the other.
A singular effect upon the spicules of this sponge produced either by a retardation of their growth or a hastened disintegration was noticed Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
1884 p. 184 in the case of fragments that had grown within certain old water pipe and were at the time of examination strongly marked by iron rust.
A central canal nere occupied fully one half the width of the skeleton spicules and was open at both extremities  and the birotulates had lost their entire margins and appeared delicately rayed.
It may be mentioned in this connection that this species more frequently than any other has been found encrusting iron water pipes  their exteriors when they have long lain exposed to the Avater  and the interiors of those of large size to a distance of some hundreds of feet from the reservoirs where they had grown of course in entire darkness.
I have not yet succeeded in finding either the sponge m situ or its detached spicules among the concretions that occasionally entirely close the waterway of some of the smaller pipes near the centre of our city.
3 Meyenia gregaria S gregaria Bk.
Proc.
Zool.
Soe.
etc. 1863 p. 452.
Skeleton spicula cylindrical stout and rather short.
Ovaria fiirnished with an envelope  spicula of the envelope few and scattered cylindrical short and stout entirely spined.
Ovaria surface even furnished abundantly with very short birotulate spicula  rotulse flat margins entire outer surface umbonate  umbo very short slightly convex.
Shaft of spiculum cylindrical short and stout.
Color in the dried state dark lurid green.
Bowerbank.
Hab.
River Amazons on branches of trees periodically pendant in the water near Villa Nova.
I have been able to identify several small groups of gemmules of this species on the stem of a twig supporting a mass of Parmula brownii var.
from Beni River East Bolivia.
As in this situation I have been so fortunate as to find and determine positively the spicular skeletonof the sponge itself which neither Dr. Bowerbank nor H. J. Carter had done the following is offered as a complete description.
It will solve some doubts of both the former authors.
Sponge minute encrusting thin  surface even  orifices very numerous large.
Skeleton spicules not fasciculated consequently no long lines of fibre the spicules attached and crossing one another in every direction.
15 Gemmules ovoid rather numerous approximating to one another in groups of varying numbers surrounded upon the upper side by a rather sparse capsule of skeleton spicules which become very numerous below particularly around the cii'cumference where they buttress and elevate the gemmule above the firm basal membrane of the sponge.
Foraminal apertures uniformly downward.
The chitinous coat is covered by a very thin crust in which a compact series of short birotulates is embedded.
Skeleton spicules cylindrical short and rather stout slightly and nearly uniformly bent  terminations rounded  entirely spined  spines lowconical acute more conspicuous ujDon the outer curves of the spicules.
No dermals seen.
Gemmule spicules birotulates with entire circular margins and extremely short shafts  rotules flat.
Meas.
Average length of skeleton spicule about 0'0036 inches.
Diameter of rotules 0'00045 inches  height of birotulate 00002.
Loc.
Beni river.
East Bolivia collected by Dr. H. H. Rusby.
4 Meyenia minuta n. sp.
Sjionge as seen minute encrusting relatively compact  the spicules nonfasciculated and without definite arrangement.
Gemmules in the dried state faintly suggested by the curvatures of the upper surface of the sponge  rather numerous spherical very small about one fourth the average diameter of those of other species a thin granular crust embedding birotulates that are no smaller than those of the three previous species.
Skeleton spicules slender cylindrical but gradually sharppointed vsntirely spined  spines conical acute.
Dermal or flesh spicules wanting.
jemmulebirotulates short shafts smooth thinnest at the centre  TOtules nearly equal  margins entire slightly reflexed more particularly that of the outer ro.tule which thus becomes cupshaped.
Meas.
Diameter of gemmules about 0'005 inches a line of ten or twelve of its birotulates only being found along its semiequator.
JSah.
Found encrusting a leaf belonging to the stem ujon which a mass of Parmula brownii var.
had formed.
Loc.
Collected by Dr. H. H. Rusby along a small branch of the river Beni in Eastern Bolivia S. A.
See also P.
brownii.
This is the most minute mature sponge that I have ever met with.
The masses even can hardly be said to be visible to the naked eye without a suggestive guidance  being about one sixteenth inch in diameter.
The first was found accidentally on a mount containing another sponge and a very careful and almost despairing search was required before another was discovered.
Its generic classification has been somewhat doubtful.
But for its entirely abnormal gemmules and the geographical dislocation of the sponges it might readily have been associated with the highest serial form of Tuhella jyennsylvanica viz. that in which the rotules are most nearly equal.
For the reasons mentioned it seems best to separate them and place it in the genus Meyeaia where it differs noticeably from M. gregaria found upon the same stem and from M. leidyi  each of which species has a capsular envelope  also from 31. erenaceous Avith its unique parenchyma of oblong cells.
I have therefore made it a new conditional species.
b Margins of birotulates rayed.
5 Meyenia fluviatilis S. fluviatilis Auct.
PI.
V fig.
v PI.
IX figs i to iv.
Syn.
European See Vejdovsky Diagnosis.
p. 178. 
Asiatic 1849 Spongllla meyem Carter. 
American  1875 Meyenia Spongilla asperima Dawson.
stagnalis astrosperma Potts.
polymorjiha  acuminata  mexicana     angustibirotidata Carter. 
gracilis 'Massive lobate.
Structure friable crumbling.
Color light yellowbrown.
Skeletonspicule curved fusiform gradually sharppointed smooth  often spined and often centrally inflated Statoblast globular aperture infundibular crust thick composed of granular or microcell substance charged with birotulates whose umbonate disks are deeply and irregularly denticulated arranged pai'allel to each other and perpendicular to the chitinous coat.
Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
1881 p.
92.
My observations upon this species as found abundantly in all parts of North America and in very variable forms may be summed up as follows.
Sponge sessile massive rarely throwing out short branches an inch or less in length.
Color varying from light yellow or brown to a light green according to exposure.
Surface tuberculated or 1880 a es n f I 1882 a var.
a 1885 a  m irregular  often exhibiting the deep grooves of incomplete concentrating canals covered only by the dermal film.
Pores and osteoles conspicuous.
Texture rather firm  main lines of skeleton spicules and of canals horizontal or nearly parallel to the base of su2port.
Spicules fasciculated.
Gemmules numerous throughout the entire sponge but in the deejjer parts most abundant  spherical very variable in size  crust variable in thickness in some forms nearly or quite wanting whilst in others it is so thick as to promote the formation of birotulates in two or three concentric zones.
Skeleton spicules curved fusifoiin gradually pointed varying even in the same specimen from altogether smooth to entirely spined but nearly always smooth at the extremities spines when present minute conical.
PI.
IX figs i to iv.
Dermal and interstitial spicules wanting.
Birotulate spicules of the gemmules generally short  rotules flat irregularly rayed occasionally microspined rays straight deeply cat nearly to the centre of the rotules shafts rarely spinous spines long tapering.
PI.
IX figs i to iv.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules O'Ol by 00005 inches.
Length of birotulate 00005 inches.
Diameter of rotules 00007 inches.
Hah.
In lakes or ponds  preferring standing water.
Loc.
Throughout the Eastern and Middle United States generally.
This species under its former name of Spongilla fluviatilis has long been known as one of the two fresh water sponges which until recently were the only ones generally recognized in Europe.
Like S. lacustris it is cosmopolitan in habit and the study of it in this country from a great number of localities has shown that it also is very variable in some of its parts.
For instance its skeleton spicules as stated above vary in specimens from different localities and to a less extent in those from the same locality or even in the same specimen from totally smooth to entirely spined  and the species named on account of the prevalence of one or other of these conditions will have to be given up.
Its birotulates also vary greatly in size and proportions in contour of their shafts and the character of their rays.
A' few forms may be so definite in their peculiarities and rejeat them in so many localities as to warrant the use of varietal names  but in this as in other cases it seems best to include all within a definite range in the species under its familiar name.
M. fiuviatilis certainly cannot be called a branching sponge but in some localities particularly when growing on the lower side of timbers etc.
or in a rapid current I have found it bearing inconsequent processes about au inch in length.
In color it inclines to a light brown or yellowish but in our clear northern lakes where it grows in large patches exposed upon the upper surface of stones it is described as of a vivid green.
Meyenia fiuviatilis var.
meyeui.
Spongilla meyeni Carter.
Skeleton spicules sparsely microspined long cylindrical.
Gemmules spherical  chitinous coat and granular crust relatively thick Birotulates often in two or three partial series  shafts long cylindrical generally smooth  rays of the rotules long conical deeply divided.
An occasional spicule may be found of an intermediate character between the acerates and the birotulates that is it resembles a short acerate with Avhorls of short spines about one fourth its length from either end.
In his Monograph of 1881 INIr.
Carter dropped this one of his original species of Bombay sponges from his classification merging it Avith M. fiuviatilis.
For several reasons I incline to retain it as a variety of that species.
The size of the birotulates is far greater than the average in the typical sjecies and their cylindrical shafts and symmetrical forms give them a peculiar beauty.
Their occasional arrangement in multiple series is not unique but the habit was first noticed in this variety.
Ifeas.
Skeleton spicules 00108 by O'OOOl inches.
Length of average birotulate O'OOIS inches.
Diameter of rotule O'OOl inches.
M. fiuviatilis form astrosperma Potts.
Syn.
Proc.
Acad.
etc.
1880 p. 357.
The name star seeded was applied before the author had the opportunity to compare this with the Eui'opean tyje or even with collections from other parts of this country.
It is a beautiful form of the species Avith birotulates sufficiently scattered over the surface of the gemmule to show as stars upon a silver dome PI.
V. fig.
V. It Avas found at Lehigh Gap Pennsylvania but cannot claim to be even a variety.
3f.
polpnorjjha Syn.
was suggested to me by the great numbers of misshapen or incomplete forms surrounding the statoblasts  as in PI.
IX fig.
iv e e e. These as my friend Mr. Carter has shoAAn me are nearly all abortive birotulates  and Avhen aa'c inquire into their cause we find that they occur almost solely upon gemmules where the granular crust is wanting.
How this absence so affects them and in fact how this chxss of sjicules is developed upon the chitinous coat must be left to the investigations of later students.
The abnormal habit just mentioned leads us to consider the next variety in which the modification assumes greater definiteness.
M. fluviatilis vu.
acuminata Potts.
PI.
IX fig.
ii.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
1S82 p. 70.
Sponge jrobably altogether sessile and massive consisting of an intertexture of stout fusiformacerate skeleton spicules abruptly pointed coarsely spined excejDt near the extremities spines subconical acute dermal spicules absent or undiscovei'ed.
Gemmules without granular crust some of them supporting a few misplaced irregular or malformed birotulate spicules the distinguishing feature of which is the prolongation of the familiar boss or umbo upon the outer surface of each rotule into a long acuminate spine in line with and a continuation of the shaft.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules 000985 by 00005 inches.
Length of birotulates 000107 inches.
Diameter of rotules 0'0007 inches.
To the description above quoted from the Proceedings etc. is appended the following in regard to the association of this variety of M. fluviatilis with Spongilla yar.
paupercula in the Boston Water supply.
The exceptional features referred to as marking this collection of sponges were  first the fact that all the gemmules whether belonging to the genus Spongilla or Meijenia were smooth that is without a granular or cellular crust  second the apparent absence of dermal spicules from both and the abnormal character of those belonging to the gemmules.
The occurrence of naked gemmules is not infrequent but has so far as known heretofore been limited to the genus Spongilla.
The discovery of the same feature in the associated genus Meyenia coupled with the fact that of the small number of birotulates found upon them a large proportion were imperfect the rays being more or less aborted approximating their shape to that of the sjjined fusiform acerates of Spongilla gave rise to the suggestion that here possibly had been not merely a mechanical mixture by inter or superposition of two dissimilar species but an organic hybridization produced by the flowing together of the amoeboid particles of which the sponge flesh is composed.
Meyenia fluviatilis var.
mexicana Potts.
Am.
Nat.
Aug. 1885 p. 810.
I find little of novelty in my description of this variety except the following.
Birotulate spicules pertaining to the gemmules in length about three times the diameter of the rotules shafts nearly cylindrical sometimes more slender near the middle irregularly spined  spines long acute.
Rotules flat deeply notched  rays irregular acute.
leas.
Skeleton spicules 00152 by 00006 inches.
Length of birotulates 00021 inches.
Diameter of rotules 0.0009 inches.
It is added that this species var.
collected by Prof. E. D. Cope in Lake Xochimilco about eight miles south of the city of Mexico differs from the familiar 31. fluvlatilis chiefly in the far greater length of the shafts of the birotulate spicules.
The specimens examined were probably collected in an immature condition as suggested by the abundance of sarcode and the scarcity of gemmulse or statoblasts.
The single small group that alone rewarded a careful search through the whole mass of material sufficed however to fix its generic and approximately its specific relations.
The shapes or proportions of the birotulate siDicules would probably indicate its association with the following.
Meyenia fluviatilis var.
angustibirotulata Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
etc. June 18S5 p. 454.
Sponge coating the stems of aquatic plants to the extent of one sixth of an inch in thickness all around.
Consistence elastic fragile.
Color light yellowbrown.
Skeletal spicule smooth curved fusiform gradually sharppointed varying in size under 75 by 36000 ths.
inches in its greatest dimensions.
Statoblast globular even on the surface and white in color when fully developed  iufundibularly depressed over the hilous opening of the chitinous coat aboutg ffp ths.
inches in diameter  consisting of the usual germinal contents surrounded by a layer of birotules in juxtaposition arranged perpendicularly over the chitinous coat and filled in between with a microcellstructure up to the umbos of the birotulates which being naked and allowing the light to pass through them present a dark point respectively like minute holes in the midst of the white microcellsubstance  birotule consisting of a cylindrical shaft more or less constricted in the middle which is sometimes furnished with one or more spines rotule fringed toward the margin rather than denticulated so as to present a striated appearance which does not reach the umbo or centre  total length of birotule about e offoths.
inches.
Carter.
Log.
England and America.
'O Collected by Mr. B. W. Thomas from Calumet River near Chicago Illinois  also by Mr. J. G. Waller Ditchley's Manor Essex England.
Meyenia fluviatilis var.
gracilis Carter.
Ann.
ami Mag.
Sept. 1885 p. 180.
Sponge delicate in structure Avhich is soft whitish or colorless in spirit presenting the aspect of glue or sarcode when dry  growing over the stem of an aquatic plant in a thin layer charged beneath with statoblasts gemmules.
Spicules of two forms viz  1 skeletal very fine and delicate acerate curved cylindrical about 34 to 36 by 26000th.
inch in its greatest dimensions  chieiiy confined to the fibi'e  2 statoblast spicules shaft long cylindrical often slightly curved smooth also very thin and delicate head small flat radiately denticulated the ends of the rays not recurved  often umbonated by a projecting spine or process total length about  off oths.'
inches  head 1 iGOOOths.
inches in diameter shaft about five times longer than the diameter of the head about lGOOOth.
inch thick  chiefly confined to the statoblast but also loose and numerous in the tissue generally.
Statollast globular when wet hemispherical and depressed in the direction of the aperture when dry  Avhen fully formed about 65 to 756000ths.
inches iu diameter.
Aperture slightly marginated i. e. slightly raised above the common level about e Aoths.
inches in diameter.
Surface of statoblast rough or uneven.
In a section through the centre the crust is seen to be a little thicker than the length of the birotules which as usual are arranged perpendicularly to the yellow chitinous coat beneath and jDarallel to each other vith one head resting on the chitinous coat and the surface of the other free at the circumference  cemented together and held in position by the microcellstructure or float which projecting above the level of the outer heads of the birotules gives rise to the roughened state of tlie surface of the statoblast.
Chitinous coat and germinal contents the same as in the SpongUke generally.
Size of specimen sent to me about  by  inch horizontally.
Carter.
Loc.
Ice Factory Lakes DeLand Florida near the St. John's River.
Collected by H. Mills.
6 Meyenia Ephydatia miilleri Lieberkiihn.
See Vejdovsky Diagnosis.
p. 177.
Of the varieties of this species v. amphizona and v. mirabilis as well as those species which Mr. H. Mills has grouped under the generic name  Pleiomeijenia as P. calumeticus P. xvalkeri and P. spinifera I can only say that they have been founded upon the presence of duplicate or triplicate series of birotulates around the gemmulse  that this feature was observed long ago in the case of S. meyeni Carter since merged with Meyenia fiuviatilis by the author  and that it did not seem to him nor does it appear to me to be specific though well worthy of notice.
It may be questioned whether the peculiarity would not be found in any siJecimens that had grown where food or silica had been unusually abundant.
7 Meyenia Ephydatia bohemica F. Petr.
See Diagnosis.
p. 179.
8 Meyenia robusta Potts.
PI.
IX fig.
v. Sponge massive encrusting.
Skeleton spicules subfusiform jwinted smooth.
.
Gemmules scarce birotulates of large size and generally monstrous in form  irregularly shaped shafts abounding in spines as long as the rays of the rotulre cylindrical or conical.
A large specimen of this species if it be not properly a variety of M. fiuviatilis was found in the Museum of the Academy of Nat.
Sci.
of Phila.
marked presented by Dr. Geo.
H. Horn  collected by him from Honey Lake Valley near Susanville California.
3Ieas.
Skeleton spicules 001175 by 000055 inches.
Length of birotulates 000095 inches.
Diameter of rotules 00008 inches.
9 Meyenia millsii Potts.
PI.
X fig.
ii.
Sponge encrusting texture loose.
Gemmulre spherical small surface smooth.
Skeleton spicules nearly straight cylindrical slender rather abruptly pointed entirely microspined  spines few low conical.
Dermal spicules absent or undetermined.
A few minute forms sometimes slightly curved cylindrical but inflated near the middle may be only the initial condition of the birotulates before their disks have been fully developed.
Birotulates surrounding the gemmules very numerous and symmetrical their outer rotulte forming a smooth exterior to the gemmule.
Shafts nearly cylindrical but rapidly widening immediately under the rotules  frequently with a single spine near the middle.
Umbonate rotulse large flat  margins finely lacinulate often microspined upon both surfaces.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules 00107 by 00005 inches.
Birotulates 00012 by 000015 inches.
Diameter of rotules 000075 inches.
Loc.
Collected from Sherwood Lake near DeLand Florida by Henry Mills Esq.
Kespectfully dedicated to my friend Mr. Mills of Buffalo N. Y. to whose perseverence as a collector we owe this and the following beautiful species the first new forms from the state of Florida besides specimens of S. fragilis M. fluviatilis and H. ryderi at this southernmost point of their range.
10 Meyenia subdivisa Potts.
PI.
IX fig.
vi.
Sponge green when growing in the light massive encrusting texture compact composed of thick lines of fasciculated spicules and having a peculiarly vitreous glistening appearance when dried.
Surface smooth or rising into moi'e or less abrupt rounded prominences near the extremities of which the efferent osteoles are found.
Pores numerous conspicuous.
Gemmules few spherical resembling in apjearance those of the genus Heteromeyenia granular crust very thick.
Skeleton spicules cylindrical robust abruptly pointed smooth the smaller ones more or less microsfined.
In many places at the surface they gather into flocculent or woollike masses compactly grouped without interspaces.
See remarks on Tuhella pennsylvanica.
Dermal spicules absent or undiscovered.
Birotulate spicules surrounding the gemmules very numerous  so crowded that some become displaced and standing out beyond the others simulate the appearance of the longer class of birotulates in Heteromeyenia.
As all are of the same general shape however and nearly of the same size it is thought best to retain the species in the present genus.
These spicules are very robust and the abundance of silicious material is evidenced by the repeated subdivision of every ray and spine.
PI.
IX fig.
vi e. e. e. Shafts cylindrical frequently spined rotules flat irregularly circular notched but slightly at the margin.
Short rays subdivided.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules OOl by 00006 inches.
Birotulate spicules O'OOIT by O'OOOo inches.
Diameter of rotules 0'0009 inches.
Hab.
On submerged timber etc.
Loe.
Collected by Mr. H. Mills in St. John's River near Palatka Florida.
Dr. Bowerbank has remarked Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
1868 p. 443 etc.
upon the number and variety of sponge spicules noticed by him in a collection of infusorial earth made by Prof Bailey in Florida and from this fact and the descritions of other travellers it has long seemed to me an ideally favorable place for the growth of sponges.
As circumstances prevented personal exploration in that direction repeated efforts have been made to enlist the assistance of intending visitors in the search for them  and much disappointment was felt when one friend a most successful collector in other lines of natural history reported that he could find none attributing his ftiilure and their apparent absence to the abundance of confervse covering every probable place of their growth.
Since these failures Mr. Mills has made two visits to Florida both during the latter part of our winter season say from February to April  and the experience gained in many Northern waters has helped him to success in these.
He has gathered several familiar species of Spongilla Meyenia Heteromeyenia and Tubella beside the two novel forms just described.
The first of these M. millsii.
approaches 31. fluviatilis but differs from any of its varieties in the character of its rotules which instead of being deeply cut into rays are delicately fringed or lacinulated like those of the smaller class of birotulates in H. ryderii.
Compare PL X fig.
ii with PI.
XI fig.
V. c. c. c. The finest specimen of 31. sxibdivisa grew upon the bark of a submerged pine log in the St. John's River near Palatka and covered it to the extent of two or more square feet by an average of one half or three fourths of an inch in thickness.
Its peculiarities are perhaps sufficiently stated above but I remember being much impressed by the vitreous appearance mentioned as suggesting that of the tropical South American forms of Tubella Parmula and Uruguaya.
A further search at points nearer the Southern extremity of the peninsula may give us some of these.
11 Meyenia Spongilla baileyi Bk.
Proc.
Zool Soc.
etc.
1863 p. 451.
Sponge coating surface smooth
Oscula and pores inconspicuous.
Dei'mal membrane spiculous siicula fusiformacerate entirely sjined  spines of the middle cylindrical truncated very long and lai'ge.
Skeleton spicula subfusiformacerate rather slender.
Interstitial membranes spiculous spicula same as those of the dermal membrane.
Ovaria globular smooth abundantly spiculous  spicula arranoed in lines radiatino from the centre to the circumference of the ovary birotulate rotulje irregularly and deeply cleft at the margins incurvate shaft very long cylindrical entirely spined spines conical.
Color in the dried state dark green.
Bowerbank.
Hab.
A stream on Canterbury Road West Point New York.
See remarks as to Heteromeyenia repens.
12 Meyenia Spongilla capewelli Bk.
Proo.
Zool.
Soc.
etc.
186.3 p. 417.
Sponge massive sessile  surface iineveu often lobular smooth.
Oscula simple minute dispersed.
Pores inconspicuous.
Dermal membrane pellucid aspiculous skeleton spicula acerate rather short and stout.
Ovaria subglobose  spicula birotulate rather long disposed in lines radiating from the centre of the ovary  rotula
flat margins slightly and irregularly crenulate shafts slender incipiently spinous varying in length from one to one and a half diameter of a rotula.
Color dull green with a tint of yellow.
Bowerbank.
Hah.
Lake Hindmarsh Victoria Australia.
13 Meyenia anonyma Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
etc.
ISSl p. 95.
SjDonge unknown statoblast flask shaped aperture terminal composed of a membranous coat striated longitudinally supporting a reticulation consisting of extremely minute erect conical processes with their sharj ends inwards and presenting in the centre of each interstice esijecially towards each fundus a short thick somewhat hourglassshaped spicule whose outer end is more or less denticulated and whose inner one is inserted into the striated coat.
Investing membrane of the germinal matter transparent presenting the usual polygonal reticulation without granules like compressed cellstructure.
Carter.
Loc.
River Amazons.
14 Meyenia ramsayi W. A. Haswell.
Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
New South Wales 1882 p. 209.
Sponge massive tubercular with fingerlike jorojections.
Skeletonspicules curved abruptly pointed smooth.
Birotulate spicules shafts cylindrical with one to ten prominent spines  rotulse deeply dentate  twelve to twenty teeth.
Loc.
Bell River at Wellington Australia.
Haswell.
15 Meyenia crateriformis Potts.
Proe.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
etc.
1882 p. 12.
PL V fig.
vL PI.
X tig.
V. Sponge encrusting thin  texture very loose forming no tangible skeleton.
Gemmules small Avhite very numerous visible from the upper or outer side of the sponge.
Gi'anular crust relatively extraordinarily thick embedding slender spicules of great length.
The foraminal tubule standing at the centre of a craterlike depression amongst these has suggested the sjecific name.
In position the shafts of these long birotulates are rarely parallel but leaning to each side cross each other iu a perplexing and beautiful manner.
PL V. fig.
vi.
Skeleton spicules slender fusiform gradually pointed sparsely and minutely microspined.
Dermal spicules somewhat apocryphal.
While smooth slender cylindrical forms that seem to be such prove in their further development to have been merely immature birotulates jiertaining to the gemmules there are others still more slender and acuminate that may be strictly dermal.
Birotulates of the gemmules very long and slender  shaft cylindrical whose length is five or six times the diameter of the supported rotules  abundantly spined more particularly near the ends  spines long cylindrical rounded or recurved.
Rotules composed of 3 to 6 short recurved hooks with finely acuminate points.
PI.
X fig.
V b.b.b..
Meas.
Diameter of gemmules 0'013 inches.
Skeleton spicules 001 by 00004 inches.
Length of birotulate spicules 00025 inches.
Diameter of rotules 00004 of shaft 000015 inches.
Hah.
On fixed or floating timber in shallow water.
Log.
Crowe's Mill Brandywine Creek Ivy Mills Chester Creek Fairraount Dam Schuylkill River  and League Island and Lambertville Delaware River Pennsylvania.
The tradition that associates the Brandywine Battle Ground with the vision Lord Percy is said to have had of such a scene before leaving England as the spot where he should meet his death in battle is so far justified by the fact that it is indeed one of the loveliest scenes in Pennsylvania.
These undulating hills crowned with forest or Avaving with golden grain  the emerald meadows lining the broad stream on either side  the smaller brooklets gathering in the hollows and gurgling among the rocks as they wind their way down to the main stream form a scene of peace and tranquility which it is difficult to fill in our own imaginations with conflict and bloodshed or cover with the thunder clouds of war.
It lay thus peacefully one summer day in 1881 when our wagons drew up near the old fashioned grist and saw mills then occupied by Mr. Frank Crowe about one mile above Chadd's Ford made famous on that Revolutionary occasion.
Some of the party went afishing but of course sponge hunting was the order of the day with the writer.
Drawing on high rubber boots I waded into the stream where the broad millrace a creek in itself though but a small portion of the Brandywine narrows into the forebay and hurries on to the clattering wheels.
At this point a rockbuilt overflow like a dam breast had checked a number of nearly waterlogged timbers and others were aground in the shallow water below.
Many of these when turned over disclosed specimens of a filmy gray sponge branching off here and there along the surface of the wood yet with a curious want of continuity as if its particles in their haste to march forward had neglected to keep open communication with their base of supplies.
All along the lines and dotting the broader portions small white or yellowish gemmules gleamed through the thin dermis instead of being buried as in most other sponges in the deeper parts of the tissues.
This was the first discovery of M. crateriformis  it was afterward found in somewhat similar situations and with like characteristics in several other Pennsylvanian streams.
So far as I remember none of this species has reached me from abroad except in one instance where the situation and circumstances were entirely dissimilar.
They will be found described in association with the sketch of Meyenia phimosa.
M. crateriformis was far from being the only sponge found on the occasion above described.
In the lower corner of each mill where the water boiled and rushed as it escaped from under the wheels the stones and timbers bore many specimens of S. lacustris S. fragilis and 31. fiuviatiUs The growth of the second of these upon timlers lining the inner walls of the grist mill Avas particularly abundant nearly white and full of segregated spores.
16j Meyenia everetti Mills.
Proc.
Am.
Soc.
Micros.
1884.
PL X fig.
iii and iv.
Sponge green without sessile portion but consisting altogether of slender meandering filaments little more than a sixteenth of an inch in diameter  made up of central lines of closely fasciculated skeleton spicules with short thin lines of the same diverging at angles of 30 to 50 degrees and on the surface numerous single spicules as yet unplaced and forming no proper network.
Near their ends the fronds were abruptly reduced nearly to the diameter of the central band of spicules and appeared to terminate in a sharp point.
Gemmules few but unusually large as the crust is thick and the embedded birotulates are longer than in most other species.
They are found axially in a single series along the fronds  each enclosed in a rather loosely formed capsule or cage of skeleton spicules the diameter of which is much greater than that of the incUided gemmule.
Skeleton spicules slender cylindrical gradually or more abruptly pointed smooth.
PI.
X fig.
iii and iv a.a.a.
Dermal spicules minute birotulates with slender cylindrical shafts and caplike rotules notched at margin into five or six hooks.
PI X as above c.d.e.
Birotulates surrounding the gemmules long but variable in length.
Shafts smooth slender particularly near the middle  widening and becoming almost clubshaped at the extremities where the rotviles are formed of five or six stout recurved acuminate hooks.
3feas.
Diameter of gemmules 0027 inches.
Skeleton spicules 00082 by 00002 inches.
Gemmule birotulates 00025 by 00001 inches.
Diameter of rotule 00008 inches.
Length of minute dermal birotulate 000063 inches.
Hab.
On submerged grass weeds etc.
in shallow water.
Log.
Gilder Pond Mt.
Everett Berkshire Co. Mass collected by F. Wolle and H. S. Kitchel MacKay's Lake Pictou Co. Nova Scotia Collected by A. H. MacKay.
My friends Dr. Francis Wolle and H. S. Kitchel Esq.
of Bethlehem Pennsylvania in the pursuit of their favorite study of desmids and diatoms visited Mt.
Everett near the extreme S.W.
corner of Massachussetts in September 1882.
While devoted to their own specialty they yet in the spirit of true naturalists found real pleasure in gathering subjects in other departments of natural history for the benefit of their absent friends.
In a note transmitting specimens and written immediately after their return Mr. Kitchel says.
Gilder Pond is a small pond some 1800 ft. above the sea on the side of the mountain fed by springs at the bottom and the drainage from still higher ground  no inlet and no outlet except a small stream w'hich drains through the ground at one end.
It is almost entirely surrounded by rocks and the water is very pure and cold.
The sponge was first found upon the ground in shallow water afterward in great quantities on submerged bushes etc.
along the edge of the pond.
A card from Dr. Wolle a few days later gave the elevation as 2400 feet.
The rough sketches prepared by both gentlemen to suggest its appearance while growing indicated a delicate branching sponge but the specimens sent had been packed between cards and forwarded by letter  in one case at least after partial decomposition in a bottle of watei.
There was nothing therefore in the fragments themselves to convince me of their external form except the suggestive presence of the broad bands of fasciculate skeleton spicules referred to in the description.
Four years passed before I was able by my own observations to verify the impression so vaguely gathered.
It was during the last week of September 1886 that I journeyed for the first time to Gilder Pond with the primary object of determining the character of this sponge.
Primary but not sole for no one familiar Avith the beauty of the Berkshire Hills would quite credit the assertion that even the most enthusiastic naturalist could limit his enjoyment of them to the act of gathering an insignificant sponge from a tarn upon the mountain side.
No I saw and enjoyed all that the summer tourist enjoys the sombre forests the lichencovered rocks the mountain summits near at hand the wide extended view which each gave to its visitors.
I also climbed Mt.
Everett the dome of the Taconics and sat alone the center of an unbroken horizon embracing hundreds of square miles of such varied beauty as may well be the memory of a life time but to all this was added the unspeakable charm of a morning spent on the bosom of that little lake shut in by the silent woods its flora and its fauna clearly revealed through the bright waters below me.
I will not believe that a scientific interest in natural objects can lessen one's enjoyment of the sights and the sounds the scents and the colors that greet him  the reviving touch of the evening breeze or the exhilarant purity of this mountain air  it adds instead a sixth sense the hope or the joy of discovery.
I found the present species very abundant and others hardly less so  one of them I shall have occasion to describe hereafter.
M. everetti Avas Avidely spread over the bottom of the pond not on the mud however the sedimentary alluvium that had gathered here to a great depth  but on the waterweeds and grasses the submerged verdure over Avhich it had crawled in slender threads reaching from leaf to stem and from blade to leaf as if some giant spider had spun them  but even more like the wavering inconsequent trail left by a snail or an earthworm to mark its nightly Avanderings.
With arm bared and fingers used as a rake I could gather it plentifully  but its lines Avere so utterly flaccid that they at once became matted and massed together so as to lose all individuality.
Some now in the bottle at my side were immersed almost immediately in alcohol which hardened and preserved it.
This species is a very interesting one furnisliing the first instance among freshAvater sponges in which the dermal spicule generally a slender smooth or more or less spiniferous acerate is here seen as a well defined and symmetrical birotulate.
Mr. Carter has kindly brought to my notice a very similar spi'cule occupying a like position in the marine form Halichondria hirotulata Higgins from the West Indies and S. Australia  but in the case of those from freshwaters we have had nothing more definite than the immature or apocryphal forms in M. crater if ormis.
The very peculiar dermal spicules characterizing M. plumosa are most suggestive of this or possibly of a still more advanced type.
Spongilla boJimii and S. novce terrce were discovered later.
The rediscovery of this species among the magnificent collections of sponges made by Mr. MacKay from the watershed and other lakes abounding in Pictou County Nova Scotia gave me great pleasure as showing the persistence of the type in widely separated districts  and for the confirmation it afibrded of my previous observation as to the general strengthening of spicular features in sponges as their localities approach sealevel.
17 Meyenia plumosa Carter Spongilla Jilumosa Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
1849 p. 81.
Massive lobate.
Structure feathery fibrous friable.
Color greenish or lightbi'own.
Skeletonspicule curved fusiform gradually sharppointed smooth.
Fleshspicule stelliform consisting of a variable number of arms of various lengths radiating from a large smooth globular body  arms spined throughout  spines longest at the ends so as to present a capitate appearance and recurved generally  the whole varying from a simple spinous linear spicule to' the stellate form first mentioned thus modified by the size and presence of the globular inflation and number of arms developed from the centre of the former  abundant in all parts of the structure but especially in the neighborhood of the statoblasts.
Statoblast ellipsoidal  aperture lateral infundibular  crust which is thick and composed of granular microcellsubstance charged with birotulate spicules consisting of a long straight sparsely spiniferous shaft whose spines are large conical and perpendicular terminated at each end by an umbonate disk of equal size whose margin is irregularly denticulated with the processes more or less turned inwards arranged perpendicularly with one disk resting on the chiti16 nous coat and the other forming part of the surface of the crust.
Carter.
Loc.
Bombay.
Meyenia plumosa var.
palmeri Potts.
Proc.
U. S. Natl.
Museum 1885 p. 587.
PI.
X fig.
vi.
Sponge as seen in a dry state dark brown massive attached to and surrounding the dependent branches of small trees whose stems are flooded by the spring freshets.
Texture very loose and when dry so brittle that the dermal surface cannot be satisfactorily examined.
The impression conveyed by the interior appearance of this sponge is that it is made up of an infinite number of radiating confluent branches.
Gemmulai large numerous throughout the deeper portions of the sponge  subspherical or ovoid surrounded by long birotulates imbedded in a granular crust.
Skeleton spicules straight or slightly curved mainly cylindrical but gradually sharppointed sparsely microspined.
PI.
X. fig.
vi a.
Dermal spicules irregularly stellate as in the t3'pical species but in the specimens examined much fewer in number.
They vary from simple acerates with one or more long divergent branches to beautiful radiatespherical bodies whose rays are nearly equal spined and capitate by reason of recurved spines at their extremities ibid e e e f. Another form of spicule probably also dermal of which several are seen upon nearly every slide prepared for microscopic examination is very difiicult of description.
It may be said to be composed of an irregular series of smooth curved rays arising from a nearly common centre and is somewhat suggestive of a hedgehog or Scotch terrier ibid g. g. Birotulate spicules pertaining to the gemmulse in length about three times the diameter of the supported rotules  shafts cylindrical plentifully spined  spines long conical.
Outer surface of rotules convex margins lacinulate  ends of incomplete rays obtuse recurved ibid b c d. Sponge masses subspherical reaching five or six inches in diameter.
This sponge collected by Dr. Edward Palmer along the banks of the Colorado River near Lerdo Sonora in Northwestern Mexico about 59 miles S.S.W.
from Fort Yuma California is a valuable addition to the sponge fauna of this continent and interesting from the fact that the typical species M. plumosa of Carter has heretofore only been found in his original locality the rock watertanks of Bombay East Indies.
That it should skip a whole hemisphere and only be found the second time at its own antipodes is indeed remarkable.
The lower reaches of the Colorado of the West extend for miles through a region described by the collector as the hottest driest and most barren in the United States whose vegetation consists of mesquit cacti and the screwbean Strombocarpus pubescens.
Its normal border lands are known as the first and second bottoms of which the latter are the higher and of course more distant from the channel.
By the frequent changes in its bed however the river cuts through these and washing away the one and filling up the other reverses their physical conditions.
Upon the second bottoms then said to be only reached to any considerable depth by the annual floods occurring during parts of May and June and not to continue flooded more than six weeks at a time the screwbean abounds.
It is described as a small tree of the general appearance of a peach tree but with more slender drooping branches.
More or less of an alkaline deposit whitens the gi'ound upon which they grow and the approaching traveler is puzzled to see in strong contrast with it hundreds or even thousands of dark masses like wasp's nests suspended two or three feet above.
It was this conundrum that confronted Dr. Palmer during his recent visit and the answer we have in the sponge before us.
From the Amazon River in the tropics to the waters of Maine and Nova Scotia in the temperate regions of the north sponges have long been known to affect the pendent branches of streambordering bushes  but it is unlikely that they have ever before been observed in such quantities suspended for nine or ten months of the year over land parched and desolate.
On referring to the earlier descriptions of his discoveries by H. J. Carter we find that though he collected this species on two or more occasions the fragments were always found detached from their place of growth and floating upon the surface in the watertanks referred to about one month after the rainy season had commenced.
He believed that the vitality of the gemmules was preserved during the dry season notwithstanding their exposure to the sun and desiccating winds and that their germination after the water had again reached them was followed by a very rapid growth of new sponge.
This would seem to have been the case also with the present variety as according to the reports of the collector the masses could not have been submerged for a greater period than six weeks in any one year.
Whether the whole bulk as now seen was attained during a single season or is the cumulative result of several annual growths of the persistent masses cannot now be determined.
See description of Parmida brownii.
It is worthy of notice that 31. plumosa and this variety Y.palmeri  differ from all other known freshwater sponges by the presence in them of a compound or substellate dermal spicule.
The spicule of the dermis throughout the group are generally minute spined acerates  in M. everetti Mills we find them as minute birotulates.
In this species the two forms seem to be combined  the spines have become central and prolonged while their capitate extremities suggest the rotules of the lastnamed species.
Of the six sponge masses from the above locality sent by the Smithsonian Institution for examination the smallest was somewhat fusiform in shape and proved to belong to a different siecies Meyenia crater iformis Potts heretofore found along the eastern border of the United States.
In it alone the mass was not dark ned by the presence of some pervading vegetable parasite.
Ill Gen. HETEROMEYENIA Potts.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phil. 1881 p. 160.
PI.
VI fig.
i.
Gen. char.
Skeleton spicules and gemmulse as in Meijenia  the latter surrounded by intermingled birotulates of two classes generally differing in form and whose shafts are of unequal lengths.
The proximal disks of all rest upon the chitinous coat  the outer extremities of the less numerous class projecting beyond the others.
This genus now covers at least three well defined species svith several marked varieties and represents a type or modification of Mexjenia unknown to Mr. Carter at the time of the preparation of his system.
It was founded in 1881 upon the discovery of H. repens and H. argyrosperma at Lehigh Gap Pennsylvania  and its necessity was confirmed shortly after by the addition of JET.
ryderi and its several varieties.
It will be seen by the genus definition that it is not intended to embrace mere irregularities in the positions or in the length of gemmulebirotulates such as may sometimes be found in M. everetti or 3f.
subdivlsa  nor yet to include biserial or triserial arrangements of them.
In each of the three principal species described there are essential differences not merely in the length but in the forms of these birotulates those of the longer class in each case being terminated by long hooked rays while the rotules of the others are larger flatter and more delicately divided.
PI.
XI.
KEY TO THE.
SPECIES OF THE GENUS HeTEROMEYENIA.
1.
Rays of long birotulates noticeably incurved like fishhooks  rotulffi of shorter class mushroom shajed  shafts generally smooth.
Dermal spicules present.
PL XI fig.
iii.
H. rep ens.
2.
Rays of long birotulates few 1 to 4 loilg stout and clawlike  shafts with few spines  rotule of smaller class very irregular  shafts abundantly spined.
PI.
XI fig.
i and ii.
H. argjrosperma.
8.
Rotulffi of long birotulates small  rays hooked  shafts spiniferous rotulee of smaller class large flat margins lacinulate or delicately rayed  shafts generally smooth.
PI.
XI fig.
iv v and vi.
S. ryderu 1 Heteromeyenia repens Potts.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1881 p. 150.
PI.
XI fig.
iii.
Spongilla repens Potts.
Proc.
etc. 1880 p. 357.
Sponge bright green encrusting thin.
Texture loose and incoherent the projecting lines of skeleton spicules giving it a peculiarly rough appearance.
Gemmulfe not very abundant spherical  with granular crust imbedding two classes of birotulate sjicules as described.
Skeleton spicules rather slender subfusiform sparsely microspined  gradually pointed.
Dermal spicules fusiform nearly straight entirely spined  spines cylindrical rounded  those near the middle perpendicular much longer than the others.
Gemniulebirotulates of the longer class comparatively few standing amongst the others  shafts smooth or microspined nearly cylindrical often irregularly bent.
Rotulse domeshajDed the ends of the recurved rays still further incurved like fishhooks  terminations rounded.
PI.
XI fig.
iii b.b.
Birotulates of the shorter class very numerous and symmetrical about f the length of the others  shafts generally largest near the middle or least near the rotules  often with one or more conspicuous spines.
Curvature of the rotules like that of a mushroom or rather flat umbrella  rays not deeply notched  rounded or slightly incurved.
PL XI fig.
iii c.c.c.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules O'Olll by 000045 inches.
Dermal spicules 00025 by 00001 inches.
Shaft of long birotulates 00029 by 000015 inches diameter of rotule 00009 inches.
Length of short birotulates 000168 inches  diameter of its rotules 00007 inches.
Hah.
On plants timber etc. in shallow water.
Loe.
In the pool at Lehigh Gap Pennsylvania  in Lake Hopatcong New Jersey and at other places along the Eastern coast of the United States.
Lehigh Gap frequently mentioned as a locality in these descriptions is a railroad station and quiet watering place where the Lehigh River forces its way through the Blue Mts.
in Carbon County Pennsylvania.
The mountain chain or ridge with an elevation of about eleven hundred feet above the river is here abruptly cut through by it leaving on one side precipitous jagged edges of bare rock  while on the other it more gradually slopes from the river to the summit.
Nearly at the narrowest point the river is crossed by an old time suspension bridge depending from chains composed of long iron links.
On the bank of the river just below there stands or until quite recently stood the ruin of an old mill that had been burned before the memory of the oldest inhabitant.
The mill race passing under an archway through its walls was choked by the fallen and blackened timbers amongst which the water could hardly have been said even to creep excepting when a freshet in the adjacent river supplied its fauna and flora with a momentary draught of fresh water.
It so chanced that during the early days of my enthusiasm for sponge collecting curiosity led me to look into this pool in reality little more than a very wet cellar with the result of adding a new genus Heteromeyenia to the system of fresh water sponges with two species pertaining to the same  also a variety of Spongillafragills a form of Meyenia fluviatilis and a new species  T. jennsylvanlca of the genus Tabella its first discovery in other waters than those of the River Amazons South America.
Numerous specimens of the higher types of minute aquatic life fine species of Bryozoa etc. gave added interest to this field of work.
On October loth. 1880 the first specimen of H. repens was discovered upon the stems and leaves of a Potamogeton by my friend and companion IMr.
J. S. Cheyney  and after reaching home I found that I had myself collected others from the fallen timbers without recognizing their novelty.
Its habit was to creep over submerged timbers and sticks the leaves of water plants the slender stems of Nitella etc. generally when upon a smooth surface assuming vermiform lines one fourth inch or more in width along whicli the gemmules were left in scattered groujDS.
Five years later I found it growing in a similar fashion in Lake Hopatcong New Jersey.
I have been thus particular to give the history of this species because of the doubt that may disturb other minds than my own whether it may not be identical with Meyenia Spongilld baileyi of Bowerbank the sponge that Prof Bailey gathered from a stream on the Canterbury Eoad near West Point New York.
Admitting the resemblance of the spicules that Dr. B. has represented and described to some of those pertaining to this species I would call attention to the fact that he has neither described nor represented the more numerous class of birotulate spicules which under the supposition that the species were identical would be a singular omission.
If stress be laid upon the resemblance of the dermal spicules of the two forms I remark that two species of Carterius  C. tubisperma and C. latitenta have a similar one.
The type specimen from which the description by Dr. B. was prepared was a very small one and I have not had access to it for final comparison.
For these reasons and while a doubt remains as to their identity I incline to hold fast by my descriptive title.
2 Heteromeyenia argyrosperma Potts.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sei.
Phila.
1881 p. 150.
PI.
VI.
fig.
i.
Spongilla argxjrosperma Potts.
Proc.
Acad etc. 1880 p.
357.
Sponge minute encrusting  color gray  texture loose.
Gemmulffi abundant relatively large on account of the unusually thick granular crust through which the distal ends of the longer class of surrounding birotulates sometimes project or support portions of it in many conical prominences.
PI.
VI fig.
i.
Foraminal tubule somewhat prolonged smallest at the extremity.
Color silvery white suggesting the specific name. Skeleton spicules rather slender cylindrical or subfusiform  abruptly pointed sparsely spiniferous  spines small pointed  jrojecting forward towards the extremities of the spicules.
PI.
XI fig.
i a.a. If this and some other of the specific names derived from the Greek are found not to be in good form I can only regret that the discovery of the rule came too late and that many alterations of name may be a worse error.
Dermal spicules apparently wanting.
Gemmule birotiilates of the larger class very robust  shafts long irregularly cylindrical often bent occasionally spinous  spines long pointed perpendicular or recurved.
Rays of the rotulse one to four assuming the form of strong clawlike hooks recurved and incurved.
PL XI fig.
i b.b.
Shorter birotulates much smaller abundantly spined  spines long conical.
Rotules flatter irregularly hooked.
PI.
XI fig.
i c.c.c.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules 00109 by 00004 inches.
Long birotulates 000543 by 00003 inches.
Diameter of disks or hooks 00012 inches.
Length of short birotulates 00028 inches.
Diameter of disk 00007 inches.
Hah.
On submerged sticks stones etc.
Log.
Lehigh Gap and Holicong Pennsylvania  New England States New Jersey Nova Scotia etc.
No other sponge as yet found in American waters can compare with this in the robustness and positive characters of its birotulate spicules.
It was first found at Lehigh Gap and has since been gathered and received from a few other places.
Notwithstanding its strong points the sponge itself has been known to occur only as a delicate incrustation  or its whilom presence has been recognized by the discovery of the gemmules ihat had been left after nearly all its skeleton spicules had been washed away.
Heteromeyenia argyrosperma var.
tenuis Potts.
PI.
XI fig.
ii.
This variety of H. argyrosperma differs from the typical species chiefly in the extreme slenderness of all its parts.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules 00087 by 00002 inches.
Long birotulates 000438 by 000015 inches.
Diameter of rotules or hooks 00006 inches.
Length of short birotulate 000297 inches.
Diameter of its rotules 00005 inches.
Log.
Harvey's Lake near WilkesBarre Pennsylvania and Lake Hopatcong New Jersey. 1 It will be noticed that the slender forms of well known sponges which have in this work been uniformily designated as varieties have been generally collected in waters at high altitudes 6.
lacustris v. montana at 2500 feet PL VIII fig.
vi Sfragilis v. ntinuta 600 ft. v. minutissima PIVIII fig.
ii.
and v. iriegtdaris 1200 feet .
argyrosperma v tenuis 1210 ft  PI.
XI fig.
ii xATueblla pennsylvanicn v. tnininia at 1800 feet above sea level.
On the other hand H. ryderu Harvey's Lake Pennsylvania and Lake Hopatcong in Northern New Jersey in nearly the same latitude and with a common altitude of about 1200 feet may be classed as mountain lakes lying in the gorges between high hills wooded or cultivated and with no outlook in any diiection.
Of latter years both have been enlarged and increased in dejth by the construction of gates at their outlets.
By this means the water has been raised and controlled in the former for milling purposes  in the latter to use it as a feeder to the Morris Canal.
In Lake Hopatcong the water thus backed uj has found its way through crossgorges into parallel valleys originally heavily wooded and the denuded stems and shorter stumps standing up through the glittering water or resting in the shallows suggest a prosaic if not a classical appropriateness in the local name of one of themthe River Styx.
In this locality and in the socalled Cedar Swamp another deep bay in this ninemilelong pond I found my principal sport as a collector.The season the last of October was perhaps rather late for the species represented  but on nearly every floating log or fallen tree top or loosened stump could be found when they Avere turned over shining patches of white or yellowish gemmules left in groups upon the smooth surface or partly hidden in little crevices of bark or root.
No conspicuous sponge masses few even of the filmy layers of skeleton spicules only these scattering and loosely placed aggregations.
Great numbers of them were chipped off and dried for more particular examination in the laboratory.
This kind of collecting has been found far more productive of interesting species than where one limits himself to the larger green sponges.
Though not a single massive sponge had been discovered representatives were collected of three forms of S. fragilis two of H. argyrosperma one of H. repens besides many specimens of Tuhella pennsylvanica.
V. baleni PL XI fig.
iv.
came from near Plainfield New Jersey and from Florida in both presumably at a low level  and one of the most robust forms of S. lacustris Qev in this country was gathered from an Ice Lake in the Sierra Nevada Mts.
at an altitude of 7000 feet.
PI.
VII fig.
i.
If a reason be sought to account for the prevailing rule in these cases the plausible suggestion may of course be made that the water of lakes upon dividing ridges or high tablelands may be deficient in the silicious constituent that would be acquired later from violent contact with rocks in the bed of mountain streams etc.
 but a much longer series of observations and exact chemical analysis will be needed to make this observation any more than a guess.
4 Heteromeyenia longistylis Mills.
Proc.
Am.
Soc.
of Microscopists 1884 p. 16.
Sppnge unknown.
Gemmulffi large spherical  crust thick.
Skeleton spicules slender cylindrical to subfusiform gradually pointed very sparsely microspined.
Dermal spicules fusiform entirely spined  spines near the middle long cylindrical  terminations rounded.
Shafts of the larger class of birotulates relatively veiy long cylindrical often bent generally smooth.
Hooks of rotulse recurved and incurved.
Rotules of the shorter class of birotulates flatter  shafts cylindrical spinous  spines short conical.
ileas.
Skeleton spicules O'OlOo by 000025 inches.
Length of dermal spicules 00023 inches.
Long birotulates 00049 by 000015 inches.
Diameter of disk 00009 inches.
Length of short birotulate 00032 inches.
Diameter of its disk 00008 inches.
Log.
Lehigh River Bethlehem Pa.
Collected by Dr. Wolle.
I had been inclined to consider the above merely a variety of H. argyrospernia but the mention of dermal spicules in my description prepared several years ago from a very minute fragment has induced me to give it the benefit of the doubt until the sponge itself can be again collected.
3 Heteromeyenia ryderi Potts.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Soi.
Phila.
1882 p. 13.
PI.
XI fig.
iv V and vi.
Sionge light green massive often hemispherical  texture loose surface more or less lobed.
Gemmulse numerous spherical relatively smaller than in H. argyrospernia crust thick foramina inconspicuous short tubular.
Skeleton spicules nonfasciculate fusiform gradually pointed entirely spined except at the extremities  spines broadly conical often projected forward towards the terminations of the spicules.
PI.
XI figs iv to vi aa etc.
Dermal spicules wanting.
Long birotulates variable in relative numbers shafts cylindrical spined  spines equal in length with the rays of the rotulaj  hooked or curved from the extremities  rotulse of three to six short recurved hooks  sometimes umbonate or with a spinous termination.
Ibid b.b etc.
Short birotulates with cylindrical shafts rapidly enlarging under the rotules bearing one or more perpendicular spines.
Diameter of rotules nearly as great as the length of the shaft  margins lacinulate or crenulate outer surfaces flat symmetrical often microspined  terminations rounded.
PI.
XI fig.
v cd etc.
Ifeas.
Skeleton spicules 0'0127 by O'OOOG inches.
Long birotulates 00023 by 000025 inches.
Diameter of disk 00006 inches.
Length of short birotulates 00012 inches  diameter of its disk 00009 inches.
Hab.
Timbers stones etc. in shallow flowing water.
Log.
Found from Florida to Nova Scotia and from the Atlantic coast to Iowa United States.
S. ryderi alone of this genus has been found large enough to attract the attention of a casual observer  inclining to form upon plane surfaces hemispherical or domeshaped masses several inches in diameter.
In these and other cases they are made up of a congeries of lobes or rounded prominences.
It was first found in the year 1881 rather 2lentifully within a limited space upon the rocky bottom of Indian Run a very small stream in the neighborhood of Philadelphia Pennsylvania.
The following year it was missing and I have never since found it in that stream.
It has been oathered or received from at least nine American States mostly along the Atlantic coast from Nova Scotia to Florida but including one remittance from the western state of Iowa.
The finest specimen collected was from the timber side of the forebay of E. Doughty's mill Absecum New Jersey.
This was about three inches in diameter and more than two inches in thickness. H. ryderi has furnished me with my latest and most valuable lesson in group classification.
Until quite recently the sjecies stood compact or with only the single suggested variety H. baleni where the spicular features were similar though more slender and the general form of the sponge had not been jDarticularly observed.
1 The circumstance above mentioned as tg the failure to find this species at the same place during successive seasons is a peculiarity of habit only too familiar to songe collectors.
However reliable their recurrence may be in aies or p07ids in our smaller streams the fact that a species was found at a given locality during one season furnishes nrf guarantee for its reappearance there during the next.
When a7iy sponge is found the probabilities are rather in favor of its belonging to a different species.
In the present case a year or two later I found a few yards further down the stream not .i.
ryderihxxl Tubella pennsylvanica.
From my favorite locality for Carterius latitenta a friend who undertook to bring me a fresh specimen two or three years after its first discovery sent me a fine form of S. lactistris  and so they go constantly moving down stream one species succeeding another as they travel on to the great sea and there Last autumn I collected in Gilder Pond Berkshire Co. Massachusetts already described a sponge as different in its general appearance from the typical form of H. ryderi as can well be imagined but with similar birotulate spicules  and their very dissimilarity in external form led me to think of H. pictovensis in which the gemmule spicules are also like those of H. ryderi.
It was not at all Avilliugly but rather in spite of an exceedingly rebellious disinclination that I came at last to the conclusion that the others had no sufficient claim to specific distinction as S. ryderi typified and included them all.
The strongest member of this species is the variety H. pictovensis next to be described.
PI.
XI fig.
vi.
I have only seen rather minute specimens of it but believe it to be both massive and compact and nearly smooth in surface and outline.
A form found in the Lehigh River at White Haven comes next also with strongly spinous skeleton spiculse and very robust birotulates.
Then comes the typical form from Philadeljhia described above as externally hemispherical but composed of compacted lobes.
In the next V. tvalshii from Gilder Pond I imagine the lobes have separated and spread out into the slender subdividing branches mentioned in the descri2tion of that variety.
The series probably terminates with the delicate features of v. haleni PL XI fig.
iv which Avill most likely be found also branching.
Heteromeyeuia ryderi v. pictovensis Potts.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
188513 28.
PI.
XI fig.
vi.
Sponge light green even when dry  massive encrusting.
Texture very compact  spicules nonfasciculated persistent.
Surface mostly smooth.
Gemmules as discovered very scarce spherical crust thick.
Skeleton spicules cylindrical short robust rounded or abruptly terminated entirely spined  spines conical at the middle of the spicule elsewhere generally curving forward toward each extremity.
Rounded terminations of spicules covered with short spines though frequently a single large spine or acute termination is seen at one or both ends.
PL XI fig.
vi a.b.c.
Dermal siicules alisent or undiscovered.
Birotulates of the longer class surrounding the gemmules rather numerous one third of their own length longer than the others shafts mostly smooth conspicuously fusiform frequently Avith one or more long spines near the middle.
Rotules consisting of three to six irregularly placed rays recurved at their extremities.
Ibid.
ddd.
Birotulates of the shorter class abundant and compactly arranged around the gemmule shafts mostly smooth though sometimes bearing a single spine  irregularly cylindrical but rapidly thickening to support the rotules which are large umbonate nearly flat and finely lacinulate at their margins occasionally microspined.
Ibid e e e. 3Ieas.
Skeleton spicules 00075 by 0'00075 inches.
Length of long birotulates 0'0021 of short birotulates 0'0012 inches.
Diameter of disk of latter 00009 inches.
Hab.
On submerged wood etc.
Log.
Collected by A.'
H. MacKay Esq.
of Pictou Nova Scotia from several lakes upon the watershed of that region and later from similar situations in Newfoundland.
The close general agreement of the above description prepared while the writer was under the conviction that the sponge was a distinct sjecies with that just given of the typical H. rycleri except as regards the robustness and spinous character of their skeleton spiculse features that we have already seen to be extremely variable will I think help to explain perhaps to justify my present act in reducing it to the position of a variety of the latter.
That there are obvious differences between them is unquestionable that these differences are specific I do not noiu believe.
This beautiful sponge was first discovered by Mr. A. H. MacKay during the summer of 1884 when its novelty as indicated by its unusually robust entirely spined skeleton spicules was easily imagined but the absence of gemmules at that time precluded the determination of its generic relations and it continued for a while unnamed.
During the last week in December of the same year a further search was rewarded by the finding of other specimens upon sticks pulled up through a break made in the ice and among these a few and but a few gemmules were discovered.
These sufficed to place it clearly within the genus Heteromeyenia with the final designation as indicated above.
The skeleton spicules of this variety are more entirely and conspicuously spined than those of any other known North American sponge.
In some forms of Meyenia fluviatiUs they are noticeably sjiniferous though the terminations are generally naked in Tuhella pennsylvanica they are entirely spinecl.
The spicules of Spongilla igloviformis are marked with large pricklelike spines  and amongst material collected at Deep Creek A'irginia and also from sedimentary deposits in Nova Scotia still another and more coarsely spined spicule has been collected whose affiliations have not as yet been ascertained.
H. v. pictovensis differs from all these in its de7ise spination and in the relatively great thickness and the rounded ends of its spicules.
Attention is asked for a moment to one fact stated by Mr. MacKay in his letter transmitting the last above specimens.
They were gathered in midwinter from under the ice and were as I can testify of a vivid green color and from his description were evidently still growing.
The scarcity of gemmules may remind us of a similar condition in the case of Spongilla aspinosa which has also been seen to be evergreen  and of the inference then suggested that they may not exist because they are not needed.
The form alluded to as having been found at White Haven has never been named and does not need varietal designation.
Its general spiculation is merely more robust than that of H. rtderi in a smaller degree than that in which the spicules of v. haleni seem less so.
Intermediately must be placed Heteromeyenia ryderi v. walshii n. v. Sponge light green primarily sessile but soon sending out slender subdividing branches palmate with rounded terminationsgiving them a staghornlike appearance.
Fronds made up of many slender nearly parallel lines of slightly fasciculated spicules the net work being completed by crossing lines of single or nearly solitary spicules.
Gemmules infrequent spherical crust rather slight.
Skeleton spicules slender cylindrical somewdiat curved gradually or more abruptly pointed sparsely microspined.
Long birotulates with typical rotules of hooked rays shafts inflated at the middle with one to five long spines.
Rotules of short birotulates relatively large flat  margins lacinulate shafts smooth thickening under the rotules.
Log.
Gilder Pond Massachusetts.
During that solitary but most enjoyable morning spent upon Gilder Pond as already described in my sketch of M. everetti I discovered early in my explorations that there were beneath my boat two forms of branching sponges.
They were not very dissimilar in size that is in the slenderness of their fronds  but in the one case these terminated abrujDtly in sharp points in the other they were rounded as above described and reminded me of the broadly palmate antlers of a stag.
On reaching my microscope their generic difference was quickly discovered.
The name I have attached to this variety is in acknowledgement of the exceptional courtesy shown and the assistance given me by Mr. T. L. Walsh the owner of the pond and of the surrounding land ujDon the mountain side.
Heteromeyenia ryderi v. baleni.
PI.
XI iig.
iv.
Meas.
Skeleton siicules 00072 b 000015 inches.
Long birotulates 000185 by 0000075 inches.
Diameter of disk 00005 inches.
Length of short birotulates 0'0012 inches.
Diameter of its disk 00006 inches.
Loc.
Plainfield New Jersey  Florida etc.
This variety bears the same relation to its typical species that v. tenuis does to H. argyrosperma.
All classes of spicules are very slender  but with this exception the associated forms resemble those of H. ryderi.
It is dedicated to my friend Mr. A. D. Balen who first collected it near Plainfield New Jersey  but it has since been found in several localities including the state of Florida where it was collected by Mr. Mills.
It has been remarked in my comments upon Spongilla novoe terrce that intermediate forms connecting the genera distinguished by birotulate spicules were frequent.
One instance of this is found in the sjecies before us.
The genus Heteromeyenia is only distinguished from Meyenia by the presence of tico dissimilar classes of birotulates.
The numbers of those of the larger class are sometimes so reduced as to be with some difficulty detected  as in a form of H. ryderi sent me by Prof. Osborne from Ames loAva.
In Meyenia millsii from Florida we have what is essentially the same sionge with this class entirely eliminated  as however there is left but one class we can do no other than place that species among the Meyenice.
Since preparing the above I have received two contributions of sponges from Mr. Fred.
Matlier the intelligent and energetic superintendent of a hatching establishment at Cold Spring Harbor Long Island N. Y. under the care of the U. S. Fish Commission.
Both of these have proved to be masses of H. ryderi.
He reports them as growing plentifully throughout the winter in their tanks and ponds with the temjerature frequently at 32 F. and below.
The species therefore in this region as well as in Nova Scotia and New Foundland must be considered as at least occasionally perennial.
IV.
Gen. TUBELLA Carter.
Gen. char.
Skeleton spiculse as in the foregoing genera but sometimes hemispherically rounded at the extremities.
Gemmulse globular or elliptical  apertures lateral or terminal.
Granular crust charged with trumpetshaped inrequibirotulate spicules of which the larger rotule rests upon the chitinous coat  the size of the outer rotule smaller but bearing a variable relation to that of the former.
The margins of the larger rotules generally entire.
The genus Tubella was created by H..J. Carter in 1881 with four species all from the River Amazon in South America  one of them was of his own naming the remaining three having been previously described as Spongillas by Dr. Bowerbank.
The new genus was needed to separate those sponges having markedly unequal birotulates from the typical forms of Meyenia.
The discovery in Pennsylvania during the same year of a fifth species and afterward of its wide distribution throughout the United States tends to approve this necessity.
Ann.
and Mag.
1881 p. 96.
PI VI fig.
ii.
KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS TUBELLA.
1.
Inequibirotulate or trumpetshaped spicules of two forms upon separate gemmules.
The shafts of one form stouter and bearing a larger distal rotule than that of the other.
Flesh spicules wanting.
T. paulula.
2.
Shafts of trumpetshaped spicules long nearly cylindrical spiniferous.
Flesh spicules entirely spined.
T. spinata.
S. Sponge structure rigid terminations of skeleton spicules rounded.
Gemmules surrounded by a capsule of spined spicules much smaller than those of the skeleton.
Shaft of trumpetshaped spicules short with a ringlike inflation near the larger rotule.
T. reticulata.
4.
Birotulates in two zones i. e. trumjetshaped next the chitinous coat surrounded by a zone of short robust spicules with equal rotules of eight recurved teeth or rays.
T. recurvata.
5.
Skeleton spicules spiniferous.
No dermal spicules.
Rotules of trumpetshaped spicules flat or twisted  margins generally entire  shafts smooth.
PI.
VI fig.
ii.
T. pennsylvanica.
1 Tubella paulula Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
1881 j.
96.
Spongilla paulula Boverbank.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
etc. 1863 p. 453.
Sponge thin encrusting.
Surface even.
Structure fragile crumbling.
Color now brown.
Skeleton spicule curved fusiform abruptly sharppointed spiniferous or smooth.
Statoblast globular aperture sunken infundibular  crust composed of granular microcell structure charged with two kinds of insequibirotulates one form of which is much stouter than the other and consists of a straight shaft passing by trumpetlike expansion into the large disk which often has radiating lines and abruptly terminating in the other which is only one fourth the diameter of the former  the other form similarly constucted but more delicate with the shaft inflated towards the large disk and the smaller one much less in proportion than in the larger form  the forms not mixed but confined to their statoblasts respectively  arranged perpendicularly with the large disk resting on the chitinous coat and the smaller one forming part of the surface of the statoblast.
Carter Loc.
River Amazon.
2 Tubella spinata Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
1881 p. 96.
Sponge thin coating spreading.
Structure fragile crumbling.
Color light brown.
Skeleton spicule curved fusiform gradually sharjDpointed smooth or spiniferous.
Flesh spicule minute curved usiform thin gradually sharppointed covered with perpendicular spines which are longest about the centre.
Statoblast elliptical flaskshaped  aperture terminal  crust thick composed of granular microcellsubstance charged wuth insequibirotulate spicules consisting of a straight shaft inflated near the small end and passing by a trumpetlike expansion into the large disk.
Sparsely spined  disk circular smooth with an even margin small end consisting of a circular convex head regularly denticulated on the margin with eight or more conical processes which are slightly inclined towards the shaft  arranged perpendicularly so that the disk rests on the chitinous coat and the head forms part of the surface of the statoblast.
Carter.
Loc.
River Amazon.
3 Tubella reticulata Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
1881 p. 97.
Spongilla reticulata Bowerbank.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
etc.
1863 p. 455.
Sponge elliptical or fusiform when growing round the immersed small branches of trees.
Structure extremely rigid reticulate terminating in thornlike processes on the surface.
Color light seagreen when growing in clear water.
Skeleton spicules curved or 17 bent cylindrical or subfiisiform rounded at the ends absolutelj smooth or sparsely spiniferous becoming more so towards the statoblasts where they are not more than half the size thickly spined and in this shape form a distinct capsular layer around each of those organs.
Statoblast elliptical ovoid  aperture terminal  crust composed of granular microcellsubstance charged with inasquibirotulate spicules consisting of a straight shaft passing by trumpetlike expansion into the large disk with two or more spines about the centre and furnished with a ringlike inflation towards the disk  disk circular smooth with even margin which is somewhat recurved small end consisting of a circular umbonate head regularly denticulated on the margin with 68 conical processes which are slightly inclined inwards or towards the shaft  arranged perpendicularly so that the disk rests on the chitinous coat and the head or small end forms part of the surface of the statoblast.
Carter.
Loc.
River Amazon.
4 Tubella recurvata Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
1S81 p. 98.
Spongilla recurvata Bowerbank.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
etc.
1863 p. 456.
Sponge sessile coating.
Surface even.
Structure fragile crumbling.
Color brownish.
Skeleton spicules curved fusiform abruptly sharppointed smooth or spiniferous.
Statoblast globular  aperture infundibular  crust thick composed of granular microcellsubstance charged with insequibirotulate spicules consisting of a delicate straight smooth shaft passing by trumpetlike expansion into the large disk which is circular smooth saucershaped inverted with even margin curved towards the shaft and abruptly terminating in the other which is only one eighth of the diameter of the disk arranged perpendicularly with the large disk resting on the chitinous coat and the small one somewhat within the surface of the crust  surrounded by a capsule of short thick spicules consisting of a straight smooth shaft slightly inflated in the centre and terminated at each end by an equalsized head which is prominently umbonate with circular margin regularly divided into eight conical teeth slightly incurved arranged perpendicularly around the stato' blast with one end free and the other adherent to the surface of the crust.
Carter.
Loc.
River Amazon also Beni River East Bolivia.
6 Tubella pennsylvanica Potts.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sei.
Phila.
1882 p. 14.
PI.
VI fig.
ii PI.
XII figs i ii iii.
Sponge gray  or when growing in the light green  minute incrusting  surface of mature specimens often found covered with parallel skeleton spicules not yet arranged to form celllike interspaces.
Gemmules very numerous small  granular crust thin or thick sometimes covering to a considerable depth the outer extremities of the rotules which in other cases project beyond it.
PI.
VI.
fig.
ii.
Skeleton spicules extremely variable as to length and curvature subfusiform acuminate or rounded  entirely sjiined  spines large conical  terminations mostly rounded.
PL XII fig.
i ii and iii a.a.a.
Dermal spicules wanting.
Birotulate spicules surrounding the gemmules numerous consisting of a large rotule next the chitinous coat whilst the distal rotule varies in diameter from that of the connecting shaft to near equality with the other.
Margin of large rotule generally entire  surface flat and tablelike or irregularly exflected  smaller rotule obscurely angular or occasionally notched.
Shafts widening toward the larger rotule variable in length and thickness always smooth ibid b. c. d.
etc.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules 00066 by 00003 inches.
Insequibirotulates 000035 by O'OOOl inches.
Diameter of large rotule 0.0007 inches do of smaller rotule 000015 inches.
Hah.
On stones and timbers in shallow water.
Log.
Lehigh River and tributaries  also generally throughout the Eastern United States.
The first specimens of T. pennsylvanica were found in November 1881 among a miscellaneous collection of sponges from Lehigh Gapwhere they had grown at an altitude of about 600 ft. above sea level.
They were minute barely one fourth inch in diameter  but were welcomed with enthusiasm as the first representatives of the genus that had been discovered in North America or in fact anywhere except in the equatorial giant of rivers.
The year following the species was found growing at White Haven on the Lehigh River Pennsylvania 1000 ft. above the sea in Lake Hopatcong New Jersey alt.
1200 ft. and was received from friends in several other parts of the country.
My records show its receipt from at least eighteen different localities within eleven separate states including the last arrival from Newfoundland.
This specimen was peculiar in so far as the larger rotules deviate from the ordinary rule of entire margins and are found divided into irregular rays or rounded segments.
The smaller rotules are clearly rayed and very irregular in size.
Generally speaking the specimens gathered were filmy indicating but a single years growth.
At White Haven however the fragments brought up by my scraper net from piling standing in deep Avater above the dam were in some cases a quarter inch or moie in thickness  suggesting a serial growth somewhat like that of Meyenia leidyi.
The first records of this discovery describe the outer rotules as one fifth the diameter of the inner but varying in a few instances from this proportion to near equality.
It required the experience of several years to convince me that as in specimens from different localities the 2revailing proportions of the rotules differed in like manner their relative sizes were no guides as to species.
As a result of this teaching some names given to supposed new species must be ignored  including T. fanshatvei intended to honor a gentleman to whose courtesy I am indebted for the opportunity of making many of these explorations  and T. intermedia supposed at one time to be a connecting link but now known to be the species itself in one of its multiform conditions.
Far up among the Pennsylvania mountains fully 1800 feet above the sea is Bear Lake one of the sources of the Lehigh River.
During a hurried hour or less spent upon it one autumn day in 1883 we found as its most characteristic feature the rocks and rounded boulders in shallow water covered with a thin light green sponge containing some gemmules.
Repeated examinations made after reaching home showed it to be a Tubella of very delicate and fragile character as to its spicules and exhibiting some peculiarities that I am not as yet prepai'ed to describe.
I have marked it Tubella pennsylvanica v. minima.
Potts.
Sponge light green encrusting thin texture loose and incoherent sarcode having a granular appearance not fiilly understood.
Gemmules few  chitinous coat and granular crust both thin  the latter embedding a relatively very small number of iniequibirotulates.
Skeleton spicules slender acuminate or somewhat rounded entirely spined  sjines perpendicular cylindrical  terminations rounded.
Trumpetshaped spicules with very slender smooth cylindrical shafts in prepared specimens very generally broken  proximal rotules large flat or contorted margins entire or more or less rayed  distal rotules hardly larger than the diameter of the shaft too minute to detect any subdivisions.
After examining some slides of this variety I incidently turned to others of a form collected as an incrustation from some large water pipes that had conveyed water from the Schuylkill River.
The contrast was startling.
The skeleton spicules here were short robust and generally rounded  the birotulates also were very short say one half the length of those last described  shafts thick and widening into each rotule.
Rotulse nearly equal in size margins entire and both of them upturned saucerlike  very closely resembling those of M. leidyi.
This was the major term of the series and was reached after passing those from the 1800 the 1200 1000 and 600 ft. altitudes pausing first at 40 or 50 ft. above tide water near Bristol Pennsylvania where upon a mass of furnace slag Avas found T. fcmshawei whose rotules bore the relation to each other of 5 to 6 or 6 to 7 then in Indian Run and still later in tide water in the Schuylkill River below the dam still greater robustness was reached and the rotulee found as above were as nearly equal as those of 3f.
leidyi.
The series was now complete from the last described form back to that in which the outer rotule and even the shaft itself had been nearly eliminated  while the general features of the sponge excepting as to robustness remained the same.
The changes it will be observed followed closely the lines of increasing altitude their cause must be left for later determination.
The fact mentioned in the early part of my technical description that specimens of this species are often seen having their dermal surfaces covered with parallellying skeleton spicules is well worthy of notice.
A portion at least of the skeleton spicules in all sponges seem to have their origin in this dermal film.
If under a high magnifying power we watch the surface of a sponge that has germinated and is growing in a stage tank or other convenient receptacle we will see these spicules carried about in the amoeboid wanderings of the dermal cells the end of each multiplying the motion and swaying like the gnomon of a time piece.
Under these conditions they are probably prepared and as the result of these motions they are placed to form the connecting links between the main lines of fasciculated spicules that are themselves formed in the deeper parts of the sponge.
In T. pennsylvauica the spicules are short and slightly if at all fasciculated  and as the crossing lines are more numerous they require a greater proportion of these forms of deiinal origin.
V. Gen. PARMULA Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
1881. p. 98.
Gen. char.
Skeleton spicules nearly as in Tuhella generally robust their ends rounded or abruptly terminated.
Dermal spicules sometimes present.
Gemmules surrounded by a granular or cellular crust of considerable thickness charged with or embedding an armature of shieldshaped parmuliform spicules.
In the species of this genus all from the River Amazon South America or from some of its tributaries a further modification of the birotulate form of gemmule spicules may be observed.
The outer rotule that in the last previous genus had become much inferior to the other has now disappeared as well as the larger portion of the shaft leaving only the proximal rotule with an acuminate umbo as a scutulate or parmuliform spicule.
Our first knowledge of the sponges pertaining to this genus as well as of three of the Tubellas already described is derived from specimens collected by Mr. H. W. Bates during his sojourn upon the Amazon and its branches from the year 1848 to 1859.
His specimens appear to have been generally gathered in the neighborhood of Villa Nova probably in a side channel of the main river Dark Ygapos in virgin forest margins of Amazons Villa Nova.
On his return to England they were sent to Dr. BoAverbank whose descriptions of them form the most interesting and valuable portions of his monograph.
In the far too meagre narrative that Mr. Bates has given us of his journey ings The Naturalist on the River Amazons London John Murray 1873.
we are informed that the changes of level in this portion of the river between the wet and dry seasons amount to 25 or even 35 feet  that the floods last from three to four months and when the water retires the trunks and lower branches of the trees are coated with dried slime and disfigured by rounded masses of freshwater sponges whose long horny spiculse and dingy colors give them the appearance of hedge hogs.
It is rather remarkable that later travellers in this district do not seem to have had their curiosity excited by the singular appearance of these encrusting or suspended masses so far as to induce them to collect specimens and bring them to the knowledge of specialists in this branch of science.
Few if any at least are reported to have been seen or described until now that a single specimen has fallen into my hands.
It was collected during a transcontinental journey from the west coast of South America through Bolivia and down the Beni Madeira and Amazon Rivers undertaken by Dr. H. H. Rusby travelling in the interest of the enterprising drug firm of Parke Davis  Co. of New York.
I failed to communicate with Dr. Rusby as I had greatly desired before he left the western side of the continent to request his particular attention to these sponges and the specimen referred to was one that only incidentally attracted his notice as he floated down the rivers.
It was seen not in the water however but hanging high and dry above it.
When I had confirmed his supposition that it was a fresh water sponge a species of Parmula he wrote It exists abundantly along the River Ibon a small branch of the Beni.
When the river overflows the sponge is deposited in the bushes.
It is exactly spherical and of a size varying from that of a walnut to one foot in diameter.
The spicules are poisonous when penetrating the flesh producing a painful swelling that lasts for several days.
It is said at times to produce lockjaw. The overflow is annual and lasts only a few weeks.
The sponge appears to vary in other localities in which I saw it.
Beside this there are other quite different species that are deposited at the same time.
One is a very dirty thing like a mass of mud or of mud mixed with ashes  of most irregular form looking like the mud nests made by some species of ants and bees.
The principal specimen received from Dr. Rusby and probably the only species that he was aware that he collected nearly resembles Parmula brownii S. brownii Bk.
and will be presently described ' I can say nothing confirmatory of the supposed poisonous character of these spicules except what is probably already well known that when handling dried fresh water sponges of any kind if the forehead neck wrists etc.
are accidentally touched by the fingers to which spicules may have adhered the latter penetrate the skin and produce very perceptible and irritating welts which remain for several hours.
I received recently from Mr. Henry L. Osborn of Lafayette Indiana a sample of fine dirt that was complained of by laborers who cultivated a certain field as producing a greatly irritated condition of the skin in dry weather when as dust it settled upon them.
It appeared that a portion of this field had been an old pond hole since drained and I found the dust to abound in the spicules of sponges that had once lived there.
as a variety of that species.
Upon the slender stem that supports it however on the two leaves pertaining to that stem and even parasitical amongst the spicules of the primary sponge I discovered several other kinds  viz.
on the stem little groups of Meyenia gregaria almost exactly as Dr. Bowerbank has described them on the leaves Spongilla navicella Carter whose enigmatical character has been alluded to in the remarks on that species  also a curiously minute new species now described under the name of Meyenia minuta  and upon or within the sponge itself a few gemmules of Ttibella recurvata and many of a new species of Parmula that will be presently noticed  six species belonging to four genera with distinct but insufficient indications of one or two others.
With a productiveness and withal a variety so great as this it may not be cause of wonderment that the writer should feel that were the opportunity afforded thoroughly to examine a single log that had floated for a year in one of the side channels of the Amazon the history and classification of freshwater sponges in America might have to be in large measure rewritten.
KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS PARMULA.
1.
Sponge rigid coarsely reticulated.
Gemmule surrounded by a tuberculated parenchyma charged with parmuliform spicules both upon the chitinous coat and on the outer surface of the tubercules in which they are associated with a minute spined acerate.
F. batesii.
2.
Sponge rigid coarsely reticulated.
Crust of gemmules granular penetrating the compact spicular capsule by many slender processes.
No outer series of parmuliform spicules.
P. hrownii.
3.
Sponge minute  skeleton spicules not fasciculated.
Crust of large granuliferous cells forming irregular rounded lobes whose size and shape are determined by the interspaces of the spicules of a much less compact capsule.
No spined acerates.
Parmuliform spicules forming a complete armature upon the chitinous coat.
P. riishyi.
The descriptions of the older species are copied from H. J. Charter preferred to those of Dr. Bowerbank as showing the results of a later study of the specimens and one made in the light of the revised classification  yet in the course of my study of the same species I have been delighted with the minute accuracy of Dr. Bowerbank's observations particularly those included in his general remarks.
1 Parmula batesii Carter.
Ann.
and Mag 1881 j.
99.
Spongilla batesii Bowerbank.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
1863 p. 459.
Sponge more or less globular when growing round the small immersed branches of trees one incli or more in thickness.
Structure coarsely reticulate extremely hard and rigid rising into thornlike processes on the surface.
Color light seagreen.
Skeleton spicule curved fusiform abruptly sharppointed smooth forming when bundled together with the hard transparent sarcode the rigid structure above mentioned charged throughout with statoblasts.
Statoblast large globular more or less uniformly tuberculated.
Aperture infundibular.
Crust very thick composed of granular microcellstructure of a white color whicli growing out through the interstices of the reticular arrangement of skeletonspicules reduced in size which form a capsular covering to the statoblast gives it the tuberculated character mentioned.
Charged with and surrounded by minute thin curved fusiform gradually sharppointed spinous acerates irregularly dispersed throughout its substance limited both inside and outside by a layer of parmuliform spicules the former in contact with the chitinous coat and the latter on the free surface of the crust giving it a light lrown color.
Parmuliform spicule circular flat infundibuliform terminating in a point like a little round shield turned up at the margin which is even arranged both internally and externally in juxtaposition more or less overlapping each other with the funnelshaped process outwards in both instances so that the surface of the crust is covered with little points.
Carter.
Loc.
River Amazon.
2 Parmula brownii Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
1881 p. 99 Spongilla brownii Bowerbank.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
183 p. 457.
Sponge globular four or more inches in diameter appended to a small twisT rather than embracing it.
Structure and color the same as in the foregoing species.
Skeletonspicules the same but diminished to half their size round the statoblasts to Avhich they afford a distinct capsule.
Statoblast globular  aperture slightly infundibular  crust thin composed of microscopically minute spherical cells irregularly agglomerated together so as to produce small lacinuliform processes which project into the interspaces between the capsular spicules unaccompanied by the spinous siicule which is present in the foregoing species and without a continuous layer of the parmuliform spicule over the surface but presenting one in contact with the chitinous coat where it is overlain by an extremely thin development of the microcellular crust from which the lacinuliform processes above mentioned are projected.
Carter.
Loc.
British Guiana.
Parmula brownii var.
tuberculata n. var.
Sponge as seen in a dried state dark brown massive spherical  enveloping the small twig upon which it had grown.
Mass extremely rigid spinous at the superfices  reticulations many times larger than those of any known North American sponge.
The sarcode and dermis have now almost entirely disappeared.
Gemmules numerous  granular crust rather thin surrounded by a dense capsule of spicules the interstices of which it penetrates by numerous fibrelike extensions which when seen in small white rounded prominences outside the capsule give it a peculiar mottled appearance.
The gemmules are firmly attached by their capsular spicules to the radiating and connecting lines of skeleton spicules near their outer extremities and form a continuous zone just within the mass.
Skeleton spicules smooth robust nearly cylindrical but slightly thicker at the middle  terminations abruptly pointed.
Those of the capsule are similar but about one half the length of the former and more curved.
Many of them are covered with large and beautifully rounded tubercles which are the marked features of this variety.
Dermal spicules very minute slender spined acerates spines at the middle long perpendicular rounded.
Gemmule spicules parmuliform or shield shaped  consisting of a subcircidar proximal rotule with entire margin then rapidly tapering into a central boss or spine whose length may be equal to one third or one half the diameter of the rotule.
These are embedded under the crust resting upon the chitinous coat.
Hah.
Upon trunks and branches of submerged trees.
Loc.
Beni River East Bolivia S. A.
Collected by Dr. H. H. Rusby.
The specimen of this variety of P. hrownii received from Dr. Rusby is about five inches in diameter very rigid to the touch but with meshes relatively very large so that it was possible to see through the mass nearly at the centre.
Its attachment to the twig around which it grew is at present but slight the twig having shrunken away from the primaiy supporting membrane.
The radiating lines of skeleton spicules slender at first have gradually increased with the growth of the sponge until near their ends their thickness may be that of 30 to 50 skeleton spicules en fascicle.
In its living condition of course these lines of spicules were clothed with sarcode and the outer surface without doubt was surrounded by a dermis of greater or less density giving the sponge more the appearance of a solid mass than it has at present.
The dermal spicules above described were found in some small patches of adherent brown substance where they were associated with the proper skeleton and capsular spicules of this species and are therefore assumed to belong to it though not found in situ.
The gemmules are here a very interesting feature.
Throughout the outer half inch of the mass they are seen attached to every spicular thread less like beads than grapes and ajijear to have been formed at the close of the season of growth or just before the retirement of the waters left the sponge hanging in midair.
It is of course important to learn so far as may be possible from the examination of this specimen whether the whole of the mass was formed during a single period of submergence.
If not I argue that another zone should be found within the first formed at the termination of a previous season the germination and colonial growth of whose gemmules would give rise to the second story of this structure.
This appears to be the case.
A spherical space of say one and a half inches diameter at the centre of the mass is charged Avith gemmules while between this and the outer zone of gemmules a space more than an inch in breadth is almost or entirely clear of them.
It is supposable therefore that this specimen represents a growth of two years at least of two seasons of submergence and that the life of the sponge whether it be in the condition of ova or of resting spores merely has been preserved in the gemmules in despite of say eight or ten months of absolute desiccation. 3 Parmula rusbyi n. sp.
Sponge minute parasitic upon P. brownil v. tuberculata  Spicules nonfasciculate.
Mass as seen with no definite outline.
After writing the above it occurred to me to attempt the germination of some of the gemmules under consideration and in one instance within two days and in another in six hours after placing a few in water an extvusion of germinal mattef was observed.
In neither case has this yet resulted in a recognizable embryonic sponge but they sufficiently evidence continued vitality.
Gemmules numerous without attachment resting within openmeshed capsules through which the crust expands itself in many large and irregularly rounded lobes composed of large parenchymal cells filled with granular matter beneath which in a single layer the parmuliform spicules rest in a normal fashion upon the chitinous coat.
Skeleton spicules almost indistinguishable from those of the supporting species  their Drincipal feature being that they are loosely aggregated and never occur in bundles of fasciculated lines.
No dermal spicules seen Parmuliform gemmule spicules rest upon the chitinous coat and from above them the parenchymal crust easily separates.
Hah.
Only known within the meshes of P. brownii.
Loc.
Beni River etc.
S. A.
The characteristic gemmules of this species 
were first noticed among the debris of the above named variety.
After an earnest effort to determine their origin and associations they were at last traced to certain minute flocculent masses of indefinite shapes resting among the spicular lines of that sponge.
The gemmules cei'tainly differ in type from those of either of the before described species and but one other solution occurs to me besides that which I have adopted  viz.
making it a new sjecies and this is the possibility barely a possibility that they pertain to the principal sponge as errant or floating gemmules for the distribution of the species  as the more common and normal forms of P. brownii are so heavily weighted with capsular and skeleton spicules that when detached they sink lromptly to the depths of the water.
Pending the solution of this problem I name it as a provisional species after Dr. Rusby from whom science has received much and hopes for more.
VI Gen. CARTERIUS Potts.
Carterella Potts  Mills Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
1881 p. 150.
Ge7i.
Char.
Skeleton spicules as in Spongilla or Meyenia.
Gemmulse globular the chitinous coat around the foraminal aperture A re examination of several mounted specimens of P. rusbyi made with a view to affirm or disprove certain suggestions of my friend Carter has convinced me that . granulaimatter above spoken of in this and probably also in other cases differs from that condition of the crust that has been called cellular in no other respect than in the size of the cells.
The large parenchymal cells in this case therefore contain within ihem or are subdivided into immense numbers of the smaller kind.
It should be said that Mr. Carter prefeis to consider this a mere variety of P. brownii.
expanded and prolonged into a tube of variable length in the different species whose termination is either funnelshaped disklike with fibrous margins or divided into one or several cirrous appendages sometimes of considerable relative length curling or twisting about each other or surrounding objects.
Birotulate spicules akin to those of Meyenia or Hetromejenia.
PI.
VI figs iii iv v and vi.
The name Carterella was first applied to this genus in June 1881 at the suggestion of Mr. now Prof. Jno.
A. Ryder in honor of my friend H. J. Carter Esq.
F. R. S. etc.
whose scientific life more than that of any other man had been devoted to the study of the marine and fresh water sjonges.
During the previous summer two species possessing the features indicated had been discovered by Mr. Mills of Buflalo and myself and briefly described as of the genus Spongilla which had not then been divided.
The approval of Mr. Mills was courteously given to the use of the name Carterella Avhich a few years later was necessarily changed to Carterius on the discovery that the former term had been preoccupied by Zittel in the same association to designate one of his fossil types.
At that time and for several years after the occurrence of cirrous aiDpendages was altogether unknown among European sponges but the past few years which have been so fruitful of American species in foreign parts have developed one of this type in Russia and later in Bohemia called by its discoverer.
Dr. W. Dybowski Dosilia stepanowii.
The tendrils of the three recognized American species C. tubisperma C. latitenta and C. tenosperma difler obviously in length and character and with the Russian species probably present as many types of these organic features as it Avill be profitable to designate by specific names.
Several intermediate forms have however been noticed by Mr. Mills and B. W. Thomas Esq. of Chicago varying as to the length of the foraminal tubules and the character of the supported tendrils  the most noticeable case being the substitution of a flaring funnelshaped termination of the tubule for the latter organs.
KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS CARTEKIUS.
1.
Foraminal tubule terminating in a subquadrangular disk at whose angles the chitiu divides into processes of variable length.
PI.
VI fig iv.
C. Dosilia stepanoivii.
2.
Foraminal tubule very long and slender tendrils short irregular or wavering.
PI.
VI fig.
iii.
C. tubisperma.
3.
Foraminal tubule shorter  tendrils one or two enveloping the tubule.
PI.
VI fig.
V. C. latitenta.
4.
Foraminal tubule still shorter  tendrils three to five very long and slender.
PI.
VI fig.
vi.
C. tenosperma.
1 Carterius stepanowii Petr.
PI.
VI fig.
iv.
Dosilia stepanowii Dybowski.
1884.
See Vejdovsky Diagnosis etc. p. 179.
In reference to this species described as above by Prof. Vejdovsky I am kindly permitted to make use of the following note by H. J. Carter F. R. S. etc.
in Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
1887 p. 212.
This freshwater sponge which in 1884 was named 'Dosilia 
stepanovii by Dr. W. Dybowski from a specimen found near Charkow in southern Russia Annals 1884 Vol.
XIV.
p. 60 was also found in 1885 by Prof Fr.
Petr of the University of Prague in the neighborhood f Deutschbrod in Bohemia about 60 miles vSouth East of that city  and his description of it which is beautifully illustrated was published in the Czech language at Prague in 1886.
It appears to be the same as that discovered by Mr. H. Mills of Buffalo New York in the Niagara River in 1880 viz Carterius tubisperma Froc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 14th.
June 1881 p. 150.
Thus this remarkable genus of SpongiUa first brought to notice by Mr. Ed.
Potts of Philadelphia in a specimen found in a small stream in the late Centennial grounds Fairmount Park Philadelphia ib.
about August 1880 which he then named S. tentasperma and subsequently S. tenosperma ib.
p. 357 ending with Carterius tenosperma its present name has now been found in Southern Russia and midEurope as above stated.
In the same communication also Prof Petr has described and illustrated under the provisional name of Ephydatia bohemica another freshwater sponge found at Kavasetice in the same district wherein the statoblast presents an incipient condition of the curious development characterizing Carterius with a apiculation which appears to me from the illustrations to be very like that of his C. stepanowii.
Lastly Mr. H. Mills of Buffalo in a letter dated 20th.
Nov. 1886 sent me a specimen of Carterius from the Niagara River which he considers allied to C. latitenta.
Potts wherein the expanded portion of this development presents itself under the form of a cup with even circular margin that is entirely without cirrous ai pendages whose bottom is pierced by the upright tubular part in the usual way  which form appears to prevail generally in the statoblasts of this variety.
2 Carterius tubisperma Mills.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
June 1881 p. 150.
PI.
VI fig.
iii.
Spongilla Mills.
Am.
Jour.
Micros.
June 1880 p. 132.
Sponge brown or green massive loose textured  surface wavelike.
Gemmulffi numerous spherical relatively large  crust charged with birotulate spicules.
Foraminal apertures prolonged into slender cylindrical tubes whose greatest length is about equal to the diameter of the gemmule abruptly flaring at their terminations into several short inconsequent tendrils of less or greater length.
PI.
VI fig.
iii a.
Skeleton spicules rather slender fasciculate subfusiform gradually pointed sparsely spiniferous  spines small rounded.
PI.
XII fig.
vi a.a. Dermal spicules long slender acerates generally straight entirely spined  spines near the middle of the spicules long cylindrical  terminations rounded.
Ibid e.e.
Gemmule birotulates abundant irregular in length suggesting the genus Hetromeyenia shafts cylindrical sometimes with one or more spines  outer surface of rotules arched  rays numerous long  terminations incurved ibid b.b.b.c.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules 00099 by 000025 inches.
Dermal spicules 00038 inches long.
Birotulates 00019 by 000015 inches.
Diameter of disk 00008 inches.
Hah.
On timbers etc.
Loe.
Niagara River New York  Cochituate Reservoir Boston Mass.
etc.
The original description by Mr. Mills of his species given as above in June 1880 without specific name is as follows  Sponge low branching 
green growing on the upper surface of stones in not very deep water.
Skeleton spiculse fusiformacerate slightly arcuate moderately stout spined  spines small sparsely distributed  length 001 to 0012 inches apices naked.
These are mixed with a great many fine delicate spicula dermals densely spined to the end  length 0009 inches scattered in groups on each slide of mounted specimens.
Ovaria globose diameter 002 inches.
Foramen tubed  tube terminating with five 
fingerlike processes somewhat resembling tentacles.
Spicula birotulate long very delicate  length of axle 00015 inches one or more large spines on each axle.
Rotulse slightly arcuate equal in size.
Length of tube to foramen 001 inches.
Length of tentacle shaped processes one fiftieth to one eightieth of an inch.
3 Carterius latitenta.
Potts.
Proc.
Aead.
Nat.
Sei.
Phila.
.July ISSl p. 176.
PI.
VI fig.
V.
PI.
XII fig.
V. Sponge green encrusting stones etc.
 texture very loose  the longer bands of skeleton spicules rising into abrupt wavelines at short distances  masses thicker near the middle.
Gemmulse numerous spherical  crust charged with birotulate spicules  foramina prolonged into tapering narrowing tubules shorter than those of C. tubisperma  terminations rounded.
Cirrous appendages at first flat and ribbonlike enveloping the tubule or pierced by it some distance below its termination  frequently but one rarely more than two of these which soon become slender and rounded long and tapering occasionally subdividing into many short irregular ones.
PI.
VI fig.
v. a. and d. Skeleton spicules fusiform smooth or very sparsely microspined gradually pointed.
PI.
XII fig.
v. a.a. Dermal spicules long acerate slightly curved entirely spiued  spines irregular longer towards the middle of the spicule.
Ibid c.c.
Birotulate sjiicules stout  shafts with numerous long pointed spines  surfaces of rotules rounded  rays deeply cut tapering sometimes incurved ibid b.b.b.d.
PI.
VI fig.
v.
b.
Meas.
Skeleton spicules O'Olll by 000045 inches.
Length of dermal spicules 00038 inches.
Birotulates 00019 by 000015 inches.
Diameter of disk O'OOl inches.
Hab.
On stones etc. in rapidly running water.
Loc.
Chester Creek Pennsylvania  Western New York etc.
In the summer of 1881 I resided temporarily in a fine agricultural district in Chester County Pennsylvania.
As a rule July is in this part of the world too early for the collection of mature specimens.
Some species however form their gemmules thus early  and while wading along the east branch of Chester Creek there a shallow stream averaging eight or ten feet in width turning over stones in the riffs or little rapids probing the roots of encroaching trees and examining the stems of water plants I found traces of a sponge which under the microscope proved to be a third species of Carterius.
The gemmules were young to be sure but the tendrils were there and the novelt of the species was easily seen.
Further down the stream wheie the public road crosses it by an oldfashioned coveredbridge in the shelter of it and incidentally protected from the trampling of cattle by fences of barbed wire was found the very headquarters the zoological garden of this species.
Nearly every stone and the gravelly bed of the stream between them was covered with it just under the surface of the water.
The masses were not large say five or six inches in diameter and while thickest near the middle tapered off into a delicate nimbus around the edges.
This appearance was more conspicuous during the early autumn when the tliicker portions having become brown with age a new growth probably from the germination of some of the older gemmules had started around the edges and in this no gemmules could yet be found.
Soon after the bunches began to dwindle in size and on the day after Christmas of that year I find it recorded the 7nasses have all been washed away leaving a slight muddy incrustation consisting partially of filiform algse with numerous sponge gemmules and their tendrils which have aided in binding the particles of a deposit of silt or fine mud into a persistent film that will probably last until the time for germination next spring.
The following year the amount of this sponge in that locality was much reduced and since that date I have had no oportunity to examine it.
In common with the other two species this freshwater sponge is very loosely held together  with the same conspicuous wavelines of spicules marking its surface.
On the gemmules the broad ribbonlike tendrils seemingly pierced by the tapering ends of the foraminal tubules are in strong contrast with the slender threadlike filaments of C tenosperma next to be described  still less do they resemble those inconsequent almost embryonic features of C.tuhisperma and C. Dosilia stepanowii.
Yet the spicules of this species skeleton dermal and birotulate closely resemble those of C. tubisperma and both are suggestive of U. repens.
4 Carterius tenosperma Potts.
PI.
VI fig.
vi PI.
XII.
fig.
iv.
SpongiUa tentasperma.
Potts.
Proc.
Acad.
ISTat Sci.
Phila.
July 1880.
SpongiUa tenosperma Potts.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.
Phila.
Nov. 1880 p. 357.
Carterella tenosperma Potts.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
June 1881 p. 150.
18 Sponge yellowishgreen  creeping upon and around waterplants and roots matting them together and thus forming loose irregular masses several inches in diameter often including shells of Planorhis and other snails.
Less frequently it is found encrusting the upper surface of stones or the gravelly bed of a stream to the depth of two or three lines.
Sponge itself of no describable form.
Gemmuloe spherical light yellow or brown rather numerous among the skeleton spiculse and the attached roots  granular crust charged with birotulate spicules.
Foramina subelliptically enlarged and prolonged to a length about equal to one fourth the diameter of the gemmule.
Just below its rounded termination it gradually flares and divides into two to five ta2ering slender curling or twisted tendrils whose length may be as much as a half an inch.
These cirrous appendages or prolongations of the chitinous coat of the gemmule in this species are generally round but occasionally near their origin are flat for a short distance.
PI.
VI fig.
vi.
Skeleton spicules slender subfusiform gradually pointed very sparsely microspined.
PI.
XII fig.
iv.
a.
a.
Dermal spicules slender nearly straight acerates entirely spined  spines longer near the middle of the spicules.
Ibid d.d.d.
Birotulate spicules with cylindrical shafts abundantly spined  spines as long as the rays of the rotules  acutely conical.
Rays of supposable rotules numerous spreading outward like a burr or brush  often with a spinous prolongation in the line of the shaft.
Ibid.
b. b. e.c.
e.e.
Mean.
Skeleton spicules 00098 by 000025 inches.
Length of dermal spicules 00028 inches.
Birotulate spicules 00018 by O'OOOl inches.
Diameter of disk O'OOOG inches.
Hah.
As described.
Loc.
Lansdowne Run Centennial Grounds Philadelphia  Lehigh River Bethlehem Pennsylvania Rahway River New Jersey etc.
The visitor to the American Centennial Exposition of 1876 whether foreigner or to the manner born if but for a minute he withdrew his eyes from that wonderful display of human art and rested them upon the natural beauties of the landscape in the midst of which it was placed can hardly even now fail to remember the Lake with its eveiflowing geyser fountain lying north of Machinery Hall.
Escaping by a passage under the Belmont Road the overflow of this pond made its way to the Schuylkill River through the lovely Lansdowne Glen filling the little Run that before and since that summer has but softly murmured through it with an unfamiliar turmoil of waters.
In its normal condition this stream is one a child could step over at almost any point and all its water could probably be carried through a sixinch pipe.
That portion of it just below Belmont Avenue has become somewhat famous in our local biological annals.
It was here that Prof. Leidy found a year or two after the Centennial thousands of colonies of his beautiful Bryozoan Cristatella idee covering every stick and stone.
Here in 1878 the writer discovered that frajyraent of Spongilla fragilis which thus accidentally directed his attention toward a line of study in which he has since had such great enjoyment  and here two years later was first found the subject of the present memoir a sponge whose novelty was exhibited in a greater departure from previously known types than had been the case with any before discovered.
Spongilla tentasjerma S. tenosperma Carterella tenospenna and Carterms tenosperma ring the changes in its name and history till it now stands accepted I trust coincidently with C. tubisperma of Mr. Mills as the first instance in which the spherical chitinous body of a sponge gemmule has attained a cirrous development conspicuous in its character and evident in its purpose.
The cirri in this species are very long and slender curling and twisting in infinite contortions about themselves and the roots among which they grow so long that they have been combed out to an actual length of half an inch or twenty five times the diameter of the gemmules of which they are parts.
More or less of the sponge was found at the same locality for several successive years until 1885 when as search was not made until December its apparent absence was not to be wondered at.
One circumstance not easily explained must be mentioned as a part of its history.
The birotulates of those gemmulre collected in 1880 were peculiar in this there were no proper rotules and the rays at the ends of each spicule stood out in every direction like the bristles of a mop.
On those gathered during the folloAving and so far as I remember during subsequent years this habit has changed and the rotules in nearly all cases are perfect.
The collections were made at precisely the same locality  and in all other respects the sponges appear to be identical.
We have now examined in detail all the genera comprised in the group SpongiU'ma that are clearly characterized by the presence of seedlike reproductive organs called statoblasts or gemmules.
There yet remain three genera in which no such organs have been discovered.
As shown by their geographical derivation they are as certainly fresh water sponges as any of the others and the absence of the supposed distinctive features may or may not prove to be real.
They have not yet been found that is all.
But neither have the sponges been examined at the place of their growth if we except the Libomirskice by any one familiar with the peculiarities of the fresh water forms who has torn to pieces mass after mass as was done in the case of S. lacustrls v. abortiva S. aspinosa H. pictovensis etc as must be done in our treatment of all the evergreen sponges which probably for the very reason that they live throughout the year perfect but few gemmules.
I know that it is in the line of my own arguments already given to believe it possible that fresh water sponges living in deep tropical waters should not adopt this method of reproduction  and I do believe it theoretically.
It is necessary however that this theory should be proved by a more thorough and systematic examination of the genera now to be briefly mentioned which are neither all tropical nor deep in their origin when if they maintain their claim it will be in order to form a new group to comprise them.
Between two of these genera there is a strong family resemblance at least in the forms of their skeleton spicules.
Those of the third genus Luboviirskia as well as the prevailing habit of the species seem to differ from the others.
I regret that I have not been able to find English translations of Dr. Dybowski's descriptions but can present only the meagre sketches prepared by H. J. Carter from his examination of the plates furnished by the author.
Vila.
Prov.
Gen. UKUGUAYA Carter.
TJruguaya corallioides.
Carter.
Ann.
and Mag.
1S81 p. 100.
Spongilla corallioides Bowerbank.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
etc.
1863 p. 460.
Sponge irregularly digitate  rising into a polychotomous and anastomosing mass of cylindrical branches which may attain several inches seven or more in all directions.
Color faint whitish yellow or dark leaden on the surfjice  internally white or colorless.
Surface even vitreous in appearance extremely hard smooth and compact interrupted by small raised vents more or less uniformly distributed at short and uuequal distances from each other.
Internal structure composed of short densely reticulated fibre formed of the skeleton spicules of the sponge in bundles firmly united together by colorless sarcode which together with the spicules in a dried state simulates from its hardness and vitreous appearance an entirely silicified mass.
Skeletonspicule very robust much curved cylindrical rounded at both ends smooth or microspined about six times longer than it is broad.
Statoblast unknown.
Carter.
Log.
Rapids of the River Uruguay above the town of Salto Uruguay.
Several large specimens of this sponge have been collected by different travellers and are deposited in English museums.
Mr. Carter mentions the names of Messrs. George Higgin W. Bragge R. M. Andrew and Dr. Garland in this connection.
VII b.
Gen. POTAMOLEPIS Marshall.
Zeit.
fur Naturwissenchaft XVI.
N. F.IX.
Bd.
553.
Leipzig May 1883.
Monactinellid silicious freshwater spouges of great brittleness with curved obtuse smooth spicules which when dry are closely cemented together by a small quantity of organic substance.
No gemmules.
Marshall.
The descriptions of the following species are abbreviated from a translation of the above paper as found in the Ann.
and Mag.
etc.
1883 p. 391 etc.
The specimens examined and described by Dr. Wm.
Marshall were collected by Dr. PechuelLoesche from the Congo River Africa about 150 miles from the sea and above several Falls named.
1 Potamolepis leubnitziae Marshall.
Forming crusts of 115 millim.
thick finely porous of yellowish white color and silky lustre  exactly the appearance of unbaked wafers.
The surface presents a few crateriform elevations of 025040 mm.
in height standing in not very distinctly marked rows upon faint undulations which divide dichotomously in both directions and frequently disappear and in which a certain parallelism is unmistakeable.
At the summit of each elevation there is an osculum of irregular elongatiovate and sometimes elongatitriangular or pentagonal form separated usually by a space of two millimeters.
The mouths which are usually furnished not with smooth but with finely notched margins lead into shallow gastric spaces Avhich immediately break up into several canals  in the angular mouths a canal is frequently found at each angle.
These canals run horizontally brauching dichotomously and communicating with those pertaining to the neighboring oscular systems.
Incurrent apertures numerous circular about O'l mm.
in diameter though some are much smaller.
2 Potamolepis chartaria Marshall.
Oral cone isolated with round entire margins 08l mm.
in diameter.
Incurrent apertures not numerous 01 mm.
in breadth.
Surface like blotting paper with a dermal skeleton composed of very delicate felted straight acerates 008 mm.
long.
Color of sponge when dry chocolatebrown.
3 Potamolepis pechuelii Marshall.
Sponge crustlike with numerous oscular cones 10 mm.
high oval at base the longer and shorter diameters being about as 2 to 1.
These cones are placed in rows in the direction of their longest diameters and are generally inclined at an angle of about 45.
The spicules of the species are more slender and less bent than those of either of the others.
The color of the sponge is ashgray with a silky lusr tre and this and the large size of the meshes give it the appearance of coarsely porous pumicestone.
Marshall abridged.
As before remarked the skeleton spicules tlu'oughout this genus closely resemble those of Uruguaya  both being stout cylindrical curved with hemispherical terminations.
I understand Mr. Marshall to say that he would probably have attached his species to Mr. Carter's genus if its title had not been so inconveniently local.
The reader is referred to Dr. Marshall's aper on these Congo sponges for many interesting and valuable observations.
VIIc.
Gen. LUBOMIESKIA 
1 Lubomirskia baicalensis Pallas.
Mr. Carter remarks  One learns from the figure of this species that it consisted of long digital processes about 14 inches long by one half an inch in their greatest diameter  more or less uniformly inflated at short intervals that is bullate but solid throughout.
Dr. Marshall remarks tliat specimens liavc been found 60 centimeters nearly 24 inches high.
Structure elastic but not crumbling between the fingers.
Color dark gray or olive green.
.Skeleton spicule curved fusiform gradually sharp pointed spiniferous generally but especially towards the ends while in some cases the rest of the shaft is smooth.
Parenchyma spicule a smooth thin acerate.
Carter.
Log.
Lake Baikal Central Asia.
2 Lubomirskia bacillifera Dybowski.
Sponge massive more or less lobed.
Structure much the same as that of the foregoing species but finer and softer.
Color grassgreen.
Skeleton spicule curved cylindrical sometimes fusiform round at the ends and spiniferous generally but more particularly over the ends  sometimes smooth over the rest or middle of the shaft.
Parenchyma spicule a small thin smooth acerate.
Carter.
Loc.
Lake Baikal.
3 Lubomirskia intermedia Dybowski.
Sponge flat spreading.
Structure like that of X. baicalensis but more tender.
Color yellowish or olivegreen.
Skeletonspicule curved fusiform gradually sharppointed spiniferous generally.
Parenchyma spicule a large smooth acerate.
Carter.
Loc.
Lake Baikal.
4j Lubomirskia papyracea Dybowski.
Sponge papyraceous in thinness with smooth shining surface.
Structure very soft.
Color white.
Skeleton thick seven times longer than broad curved cylindrical round at the ends thickly spiniferous throughout.
Parenchyma spicule a very small smooth acerate.
Carter.
The above species described by Dr. W. Dybowski were collected by his brother Dr. Benedict Dybowski and Herr W. Godleuski all from Lake Baikal in Siberia.
Very many specimens were obtained by them from various depths in the Lake and the conclusion reached by their intelligent observations was that the sponge was totally devoid of gem mules.
I do not know that these observations sufficiently covered the range of the seasons to make the result positive.
The condition of Lake Baikal as a geologically recent freshwater lake still retaining in its fauna etc. traces of its former marine character such as the existence of seals in it or in a recently connected body of water renders these observations peculiarly important.
CONCLUSION.
In closing this third Monograph of the freshwater sponges it is with the consciousness that the work of classification occupies a veryhumble place among biological efforts and that all systems must of necessity be tentative and temporary soon to be superseded by others the results of a larger knowledge gained by the contemplation of a wider horizon.
Even so it has its value in helping forward this very result.
Some points in the present seemingly narrow field of scientfic labor worthy of the thought and study of future students have already been suggested such as the necessity of gemmules in fresh water as distinguished from marine sponges  the process of their formation  their function and the means by which that end is attained  the law of variation in the quantity and character of the enveloping crust and the time and mode of formation of the embedded armature  all have yet to be conclusively studied.
Other questions of a more limited character occur in the search for the line of derivation that must be supposed to run through all the genera and species  and in the association apparently indicated amongst otherwise dissimilar species by the presence in them of correspondent forms such as the birotulate dermals found in certain Spongillas and Meyenias and the more frequent recurrence in several genera of acerate dermals with characteristic centrally located perpendicular spines etc.
The true meaning of such facts must yet be discovered and I know of no more hopeful field of labor for a young naturalist seeking for new worlds to conquer than that provided by the freshwater sponges.
The few active workers in this field in North America liave thus far but glanced at a few streams and lakes mostly in the neighborhoods of Buffalo Chicago and Philadelphia and in parts of Florida Nova Scotia and Newfoundland.
There can be little doubt that the rest of the Continent holds many rare prizes in trust for younger and better equipped explorers.
Explanation op Plates.
t The magnification used in plates V. and VI.
is irregular as suited the several subjects of the artist.
The figures on plates VII to XII inclusive are uniformly magnified about 200 times and represent the spicules as seen upon prepared slides.
Plate V. Fig.
I. Spongilla lacustris.
Surface of gemmule showinga position and character of infundibular foraminal aperture  b acerate gemmule spicules lying upon or imbedded in a granular crust.
See PI.
VII.
The position of these greatly varies in the different varieties or forms governed generally by the thickness of said crust.
Fig.
II.
Spongilla fragilis.
A upper surface of part of pavement layer of gemmules  a foraminal tubules mostly curved located at the centre of the upper surface of each gemmule hh acerate spicules embedded in the cellular parenchyma which surrounds and combines the gemmules.
See PI.
VIII.
B section of group of errant gemmules  a curved foraminal tubules ahvays outivard  b envelope of cellular parenchyma charged with acerate spicules.
Fig.
III.
Spongilla igloviformis.
A elevation of domeshaped group of gemmules showing through the surface of the cellular parenchyma which has been made transparent the several gemmules in position surrounded by the echinating acerate parenchyma spicules.
PI.
VIII fig.
v.  the surface transparent of a similar group as seen from above.
The foraminal apertures not here visible all open inward.
Fig.
IV.
Meyenia leidyi.
A upper surfiice of portion of a layer of gemnailes each of wliich besides its blrotulate armature PI.
X fig.
i.
not shown in this sketch is surrounded byc a lattice capsule of spicules resembling those of the skeleton  at the summit of which an open space occurs arounda the foraminal aperture  more than one being sometimes present.
B section of part of chitinous coat of a geinmule showing imperfectly its armature of blrotulate spicules in position.
Fig.
V. Meyenia fluviatilis.
Surface of gemmule.
Crust charged with birotulate spicules amphidisks  one starshaped rotule resting upon the chitinous coat the other presented to the observer or more or less foreshortened.
See PI.
IX fig.
iii etc.
Fig.
VI.
Meyenia crateriformis.
Section of chitinous coat of gemmule supporting6 hooked birotulates with very long shafts  whose positions normally radial are in this species frequently twisted or confused.
PL X fig.
v. Plate VI.
Fig.I.
Heteromeyenia argyrosperma.
Partial section of chitinous coat and crust of gemmule showing a the somewhat nari'owing foraminal aperture  thick granular crust charged with6 long and6 short hirotulate spicules.
PI.
XI fig.
i and ii.
The outer rotules of the longer birotulates when covered by the crust form conical protuberances as figured.
They are perhaps more frequently seen naked.
Fig.
II.
Tubeila jenn.sylvanica.
Partial section of chitinous coat of gemmule surrounded with granular crust  in which are embedded minute incequibirotulate spicules PI.
XII fig.
i ii iii.
the larger rotule always resting upon the chitinous coat.
The thickness of the crust in this species varies in different localities from barely equalling the height of the spicules to the extreme of covering them two or more times that depth.
Fig.
III.
Carterius tubisperma.
Partial section of chitinous coat and crust of gemmule the latter embedding6 birotulatespicules.
Foraminal aperture prolonged into a long tubulea flaring and funnelshaped at its extremity and divided into several short tendrils or cirrous aipendagesd. Fig.
IV.
Carterius stepanowii.
Partial section of gemmule showing protohusmic contents crust birotulate spicules foraminal tubulea penetrating the subquadrangular flangelike extensionc divided at the angles into numerous very short cirrous appendages after Dybowski.
Fig.
V. Carterius latitenta.
Partial section of chitinous coat bearing crust and birotulate spicules6  and extended into a foraminal tubule shorter than that of either of the previous species surrounded and terminated by one or two long and broad ribbonlike cirrous appendagesrZ.
Fig.
VI.
Carterius tenosperma.
Section as before  the short tubule a divided into several long slender cirrous appendsigesd.
Plate VII.
Fig.
I. Sjoongilla lacudrls.
From an Ice Lake on the Sierra Nevada Mts alt.
7000 feet .a skeleton spicule  bhh bent cylindrical acerate gemmule spicules  ccg spined acerate dermal or flesh spicules.
Received from Dr. H. W. Harkness through Miss.
M. M. Greer.
Fig.
II.
Spongilla lacustris.
From Ridley Creek near Media Pennsylvania a skeleton spicules bbb acerate gemmule spicules  ccc dermal acerates.
Fig.III.
Spongilla lacustris.
From English type received from H. J. Carter aaa skeleton spicules  bb etc.
acerate gemmule spicules  ce dermal acerates.
Fig.
IV.
Spongilla lacustris.
From May's Landing New Jersey aaa skeleton spicules  bb long spinous acerate gemmule spicules  cc small dermal acerates.
Fig.
V. Spongilla lacustris var.
lehighensis.
From the Lehigh River at White Haven Pennsylvaniaaa skeleton spicules b b b strongly spinous gemmule spicules cccc short dermal acerates.
Fig.
VI.
Spongilla lacustris var.
montana.
From Lake on Catskill Mts. New York alt.
2500 feet representing skeleton and gemmule spicules no dermals have been drawn.
Plate VIII.
Fig.
I. Spongilla fragilis.
From type specimen presented by Dr. Jos.
Leidy to the Academy of Natural Sciences Philadelphia aaaa skeleton spicules  bbbb spicules from the cellular parenchyma.
Fig.
II.
Spongilla fragilis var.
minutissima.
From Lake Hopatcong New Jersey aa skeleton spicules  bb spined forms sometimes seen ccc long irregular spinous parenchymal spicules.
Fig.
III.
Spongilla fragilis.
From Calumet River Illinois aa skeleton spicules  h c d e variable parenchymal spicules  spined spherical forms frequently seen throughout the species.
Collected by B. W. Thomas.
Fig.
IV.
Spongilla jragilis var.
minuta.
From Lehigh Gap Pennsylvania aaa skeleton spicules  bbb long spined acuminate parenchymal spicules  ccc spherical and amorphous forms.
Fig.
V. Spongilla igloviformis.
From Donghty's Pond Absecum New Jersey .a a c skeleton spicules  bb parenchymal spicules nearly equally long but more spinous.
Fig VI.
Spongilla aspinosa.
From Doughty 's Pond Absecum New Jersey .a ordinary skeleton spicule  b skeleton spicule  actiate or rounded at one end c d malformations of skeleton spicules  eee smooth dermal spicules   globular or discoidal masses of silica frequently observed in this species.
Plate IX.
Fig.
I. Meyenia fiuviatilis.
From an English type received from H. J. Carter a and 6 spined skeleton spicules  c smooth do.
 ddd birotulate gemmule spicules sometimes with acuminate umbos  eee end view of rotules.
Fig.
II.
Meyenia fiuviatilis var.
acuminata.
From Boston Massachusetts .a ordinary skeleton spicule  bb slender forms ofdo.
 cdd acuminate or misshapen birotulate gemmule spicules.
Fig.
III.
Meyenia fiuviatilis form astrosper7na syn.
From Lehigh Gap Pennsylvania aa skeleton spicules  bb birotulate gemmule spicules  dd malformed do.
 c group of rotuhr  ee single rotules showing an ordinary distribution of the rays.
Fig.
IV.
Meyenia fiuviatilis.
From Chester Cheek near Lenni Pennsylvania.
a proper skeleton spicule 6 malformed do.
 ddd short robust birotulates  ccc rotules with symmetrical conical rays subspined at margins  eeee malformations of birotulates.
frequent in this specimen.
Fig.
V. Meyenia robusta.
From Honey Lake Valley Californiaa a smooth skeleton spicules  bbb coarsely spined gemmule birotulates  ddd single rotules  ceee exceedingly misshapen forms.
Collected by Dr. Geo.
H. Horn.
Fig.
VI.
Meyenia subdivisa.
From St. John's River near Palatka Florida a smooth b c d spined skeleton spicules ee ee long massive gemmule birotulates spined and subspined   rotules of do.
Collected by Henry Mills.
Plate X.
Fig.
I. Meyenia leidyi.
From Schuylkill River Philadelphia Pennsylvania aaa smooth skeleton spicules abruptly pointed bb do.
witli rounded terminations cc short birotulates with entire margins  d do.
with rotule twisted or exflected  e face of rotule   group of rotules as they appear upon the surface of the gemmules.
Fig.
II.
Meyenia inillsii.
From Florida a microspined skeleton spicule  bb mature gemmule birotulates with smooth shafts  cce probably immature forms  ddd face of rotules lacinulate or delicately notched and without rays.
Collected by H. Mills Fig.
III.
Meyenia everetti.
From Pictou Nova Scotia a a a a smooth slender skeleton spicules bbbb long smooth gemmule birotulates  cc dd minute dermal birotulates.
Collected by A. H. MacKay.
Fig.
IV.
Meyenia everetti.
From Gilder Pond on Mt.
Everett Massachusetts aa66 smooth skeleton spicules c c c gemmule birotulates  d end view of rotule formed of hooked rays  eee minute dermal birotulates.
Collected F. Wolle and H. S. Kitchell.
Fig.
V. Meyenia crater if ormis.
From Crowe's Mill Brandy wine Creek Pennsylvania .aa slender microspined skeleton spicules  bbbb mature gemmule birotulates with short hooked rays Gdee supposed immature forms.
Fig.
VI.
Meyenia pliimosa var.
palmeri.
From the Colorado of the West Mexicoa robust microspined skeleton spicule bec spined gemmule birotulates  dd rotules of do. irregularly notched  eee substellate dermal spicules  .
imperfect form of do.
 gg amorphous Scotch terrier forms.
Plate XI.
Fig.
I. Heteromeyenia argyrosperma.
From Lehigh Gap Pennsylvania aa sparsely microspined skeleton spicules  b bb gemmule birotulates of the longer class with one to three hooked rays  cccc spined birotulates of the shorter class.
Fig.
II.
Heteromeyenia argyrospe7ma var.
tenuis.
From Harvey's Lake Pennsylvania .ajUja slender skeleton spicules  bbb 015' birotulates cc birotulates of the shorter class all more slender than in the typical species  d imperfect do.
Fig.
III.
Heteromeyeniq repens.
From Lehigh Gap Pennsylvaniaaaa niicrospined skeleton spicules  66 gemmule birotulates of the longer class with recurved hooked rays  ccc gemmule birotulates of the shorter class  ddd rotules of do. ee dermal spicules .
amorphous spicule.
Fig.
IV.
Heteromeyenia ryderi var.
baleni.
From near Plainfield New Jersey .aaaa slender microspined skeleton spicules 666 long hooked gemmule birotulates ccc short do with flat rotules  ddd surface of last named.
Collected by A. D. Baloii.
Fig.
V. Heteromeyenia ryderi type.
From Indian Run Philadelphia Pennsylvania a skeleton spicule  666 long gemnmle birotulates hooked and spined  ceccc short birotulates  ddd surface of rotules margins lacinulate surface microsiined or granulated  e amorphous spicule.
Fig.
VI.
Heteromeyenia ryderi var.
pietovensis.
From Pictou Nova Scotia .abc densely spinous skeleton spicules various terminations ddd long gemmule birotulates eeee short do.
Plate XII.
Fig.
I. Tubella pennsylvanica.
Lehigh Gap Pennsylvania .aa aa spined skeleton spicules  666 gemmule insequibirotulates or trumpetshaped spicules  c group of rotules seen from above showing the relative sizes of the rotules d surface of single large rotule.
Fig.
II.
Tubella pennsylvanica var.
intermedia.
From Indian Run Philadelphia aaa stouter skeleton spicules  bcc inajquibirotulates  dee end view of do.
showing comparative size of rotules in this variety.
Fig.
III.
Tubella pennsylvanica var.
fanshawei.
From Bristol Pond Pennsylvania .aabb skeleton spicules  ccdd birotulates more neai'ly equal than in either of the former cases as shown again hjfjgg end views.
Fig.
IV.
Carterius tenospervia.
From Lansdowne Run Philadelphia Pennsylvania .aa skeleton spicules  bbbc spined gemmule birotulates with burrlike rotules  eee ends of do.
 dddd long spinous acerate dermal spicules.
Fig.
V. Carterius latitenta.
From Chester Creek Pennsylvaniaaa skeleton spicules  bbbb gemmule birotulates variable in length  dd face of rotules  c spined dermals.
Fig.
VI.
Carterius tubisperma.
From Niagara River near Buffalo New York aa skeleton spicules  bbbbbd gemmule birotulates  c face of rotule ee long spined dermal acerates.
Collected by Henry Mills.
280 proceedings of the academy of 1887.
June 7.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twentyone persons present.
June 14.
Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentyfive persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication  On the structure and Classification of Mesozoic Mammalia.
Abstract.
By Henry F. Osborn.
Notes on the Specific Names of certain North American Fishes.
By Carl H. Eigenmann.
June 21.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twentynine persons present.
Note on Chionanthus.
Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that ChionantJms L. until recently has been described as having perfect flowers.
Of many authoi's to hand Dr. Gray only notes in the later edition of his Manual that it is occasionally polygamous.
It is rather one of those plants that are on the borderland of dicecism which while having flowers apparently alike on all plants have impotent anthers with a perfect pistil in one individual and polliniferous anthers and an imperfect pistil in the other.
The plant is therefore actually dioecious while having flowers apparently perfect.
This is certainly the rule.
There is however a great difference in the flowers when critically examined.
All authors he had referred to describe the pistil as emarginate or bifid.
This is only the case in what we must call the male plant.
Fig.
1.
In the female it is capitate.
Fig.
2.
The anthers in the male are broadly ovate barely pointed thick and of an uniform eburnean tint with an abundance of yellow pollen.
In the female they are linear ovate greenish white with a mucronate almost awned point never Fig.
I. polliniferous and usually have more slender filaments.
No author seems to have noted the capitate stigma.
Probably the male plants are more abundant and come more readily to hand.
C Of eleven he had out in a swamp to bear seed before being ' ' aware of its bisexual character only three are berrybearing and have the capitate stigma that characterizes the female flowers.
On his lawn there is a large plant isolated from others with capitate stigmas that has Fig 2. never borne a seed.
He had an impression that he had seen single specimens in cultivation in years gone by with seed so it is not improbable under rare exceptions a plant may have actually perfect flowers.
An interesting fiict is that the usual description of anthers sometimes 3 or 4 is correct only as applicable to the male plant this increase in the normal number is there frequent.
He had not been able to find more than two in the female.
Although the white flowers are consiicous and the males have a delicate fragrance he had not known them to be visited by bees or other insect except the minute pollen eating thrips found in most flowers.
This may be from the abundance of other flowers on his grounds at the time wlien these plants are in blossom.
Industrious as bees are they visit those flowers first that have nectar and pollen in profusion in prefeience to gleaning in scant fields taking to these only when abundant crops are scarce.
The pollen is granulous and fertilization is evidently effected through the wind.
The flowers are therefore anemophilous.
June 28.
Mr. Charles Roberts in the chair.
Fourteen persons present.
A paper entitled On the Structure and Classification of the Mesozoic Mammalia by Henry F. Osborn was presented for publication Mr. Theo.
Wernwag was elected a member.
The following was ordered to be printed  19
