NOTES ON THE MYOLOGY OF URSUS MARITIMUS.
BY EDWIN A. KELLEY.
The subject of these notes was a young female polar bear probably about three years old which recently died at the Zoological Gardens in Philadelphia and was received at the University through the courtesy of Mr. A. E. Brown Superintendent of the gardens.
The animal measured about four and ahalf feet from nose to root of tail it had been rather roughly skinned and eviscerated so that little could be ascertained concerning the panniculus abdominal and perineal muscles.
My attention was given mainly to the limbs and I have here mentioned only such muscles as seemed to present noteworthy characters.
Neck.
Splenius commences in fascia at the second dorsal vertebra and its muscular area diverges from the middle line until at the point of insertion on the lambdoidal ridge it is over two inches distant from its fellow of the opposite side.
Trachelomastoid rises from the fourth cervical to the first dorsal vertebra blends more or less with the splenius anteriorly and shows a tendinous inscription opposite the axis.
Complexm has a small separate slip from the fourth cervical and behind that rises in common with the trachelomastoid to the first dorsal.
Transversalis cervicis inserts as usual into the last five cervicals and a complexus tertius runs from the second third and fourth cervicals to the transverse process of the atlas.
Sternomastoid is a stout muscle which blends with its fellow for about a third of the way up the neck  at the level of the shoulder it divides into two bellies a posterointernal one which continues to the mastoid process and a more slender anteroexternal head which runs forward and outward crossing obliquely the cleidomastoid and blends with the adjacent cephalohumeral.
Cleidomastoid has its usual relations rising in common with the sternomastoid and diverging from it about the middle of the neck to insert into the deep face of the cephalohumeral at the shoulder it is much more slender than the sternomastoid.
Omohyoid is a well developed ribbon about three quarters of an inch in width which rises from tlie anterior border of the scapula some distance back from the coracoid process and follows a gently curved line to the basihyal bone.
Stylohyoid pursues its usual course transversely across the surface of the digastric to insert into fascia just anterior to the basihyal bone being at that point over an inch in width.
On the left side there was inserted in common Avith it a muscular slip about i in.
wide which ran outward beneath the digastric and finally was seen to rise in common with the latter  this little band was not present on the right side.
Shoulder and Arm.
Rhomboideus major and r. capitis are united for half way up the neck the former continues by fascia to the region of the atlas.
Cephalohumeral as it proceeds towards the arm receives first the slip from the sternomastoid and then the insertion of the cleidomastoid  it shows at the latter point no tendinous intersection and consequently the insertion of the muscle is the only indication of a distinction between trapezial and deltoid elements.
Further down it blends with the pectoralis and scapular deltoid and inserts on the lower half of the humerus without showing any tendency to fuse with the brachialis anticus.
Aero miotr ache lien inserting on the metacromion rises not only from the transverse process of the atlas but also by a separate belly IJ in.
long from the rectus anticus major.
Teres minor was stated by Professor Shepherd to be indistinguishable from the infrasjiinatus in his specimen of the American black bear.
In the present subject this muscle was quite distinct running more than half way back on the axillary border of the scapula  it inserted into the centre of the outer side of the great tuberosity while the infraspinatus ran about an an inch further on.
I also found the muscle distinct in a young black bear which I had the opportunity of examining.
The common tendon of teres major and latissimus dorsi shows very clearly up to its insertion the distinction between the two elements composing it.
Pectoralis.
At first sight the superficial aspect of the pectoral seems to be formed by one unbroken muscular mass pectoralis major which rises along the entire length of the sternum a distance of 13 inches and behind this for several inches on the abdomen where its inner border diverges somewhat from the middle line.
From this extensive origin its fibres converge toward the middle of the hu1 Myology of ihe American Black Bear.
Jour.
Anat.
and Phys.
Vol.
XVIII p. 108. rnerus and blending with the cephalohumeral at a point 3 J inches from the head of the humerus are inserted in common with the latter on the outer lip of the bicipital groove for a distance of 4 inches.
Beginning at a point 8 inches from the manubrium and 3 inches from the middle line of the sternum its posterior border begins to be involuted and this fold becoming deeper as it goes outward is finally inserted by an aponeurosis 2 inches wide immediately beneath the superficial layer.
The posterior  deep division of the anterior thoracic nerve appearing at the anterior edge of this fold runs backward over its superficial aspect to the line of folding and then turns forward on the deep surface of the main snjerficial mass where it is finally lost.
Upon close inspection the posterior border of this mass is seen to be split ofi as a separate band which is several inches wide at its origin comprising most of the part rising from the abdominal muscles but rapidly narrows as it passes outward until it is only about f inch wide.
This ventrohumeral slip is carried under with the fold just mentioned forming at first its anterior edge  out toward the insertion however the widening fold extends itself between the ventrohumeral and the superficial pectoralis major so that for a space its edge coincides with that of the former and finally the ventrohumeral instead of forming the anterior border of the involution comes to occupy the middle of its deep surface the two blend and insert in common.
The fold is thus seen to be complete without the ventrohumeral slip though the latter appears to be an intrinsic part of it.
The ventrohumeral and the main superficial mass p. major are quite distinct down to their origins but the line between them is so obscure as to have escaped my notice at first.
The concavity of the involution shows a disposition to split off a number of narrow fasciculi.
The outer edge of the posterior end of the ventrohumeral approaches closely to the latissimus dorsi but there appears to be no connection between them.
As however the skinning had been I'ather deep behind the axilla there might have been connecting slips in that region which did not show in the specimen.
The distal end of the pectoralis minor see below lies immediately anterior to the involuted fold and in the same plane with it.
The muscle rises from the sternal ends of the costal cartilages from the second to the seventh inclusive and pursuing an oblique course outward and forward inserts by a thin aponeurosis which partly attaches to the outside of the great tuberosity and partly reaches the surface of the supraspinatus muscle and the coracoid process.
It is between this muscle and the involuted fold of the p. major that the deep anterior thoracic nerve issues.
Beneath the anterior portion of the pectoralis major and superficial to the p. minor lie two muscular ribbons.
The more anterior sternoscapularisf rises for  inches on the manubrium and inserts anteriorly by fascia and posteriorly by muscular fibres into the great tuberosity and bicipital ridge for a distance of 3 inches.
It thus increases in width outwards.
The other band lies immediately posterior to this in the same plane rising on the first three sternebrie  anteriorly it is quite distinct from the p. major but its posterior border fuses more or less with the latter.
Its anterior fibres have an independent insertion on the bicipital ridge while posteriorly it inserts in common with the p. major and cephalohumeral.
The diverse ideas concerning the homologies of the pectoral elements and the consequent confusion of nomenclature are wellknown.
In the Carnivora for instance Cuvier denies the existence of a pectoralis minor though as remarked by Murie the  Planches de Myologie  of Cuvier and Laurillard represent it as present  this opinion is supported by MeckeP and many recent investigators.
Others who admit the presence of the muscle differ considerably in the element to which they apply the name.
Wilder believes the superficial backwardly directed layers to be the pectoralis major and all of the deep forwardly directed bands with apparently the exception of the most posterior  xiphihumeral  to be homologous with the human pectoralis minor.
Owen seems to consider that in the dog only the most anterior of these deep bands represents the p. minor while Shepherd applies the name to the muscle which has here been described as sternoscapular.
The muscle which I have described as the pectoralis minor appears to me to be such not only in the bear but throughout the Carnivora from its general position from the usual continuation of its fascial insertion to the coracoid process and from its relations to 1 Lemons d'Anat.
Comp.
Tome 1 p. 256.
Syst.
vergleich.
Anat.
Theil 3 pp.
4911.
2 The Pectoral Muscles of Mammalia.
Proc.
Am.
As.
Ad.
Sci.
1873 p. 3U7Also Anatomical Technology p. 235.
 Anat.
Vert.
Vol.
Ill p. 50.
5 Loc.
Cit.
p. 105. the two anterior thoracic nerves which embrace and supply it much as in the human subject.
In most mammals there are behind the pectoralis minor certain other muscular elements   pectoralis quartus   xiphisternohumeral   ventrohumeral  etc.
 wljich have been the subject of much discussion.
Wilder as mentioned above considers most of these as parts of the p. minor but the most posterior slips he speaks of  as probably  differentiated portions of the main pectoral mass. 
In the Carnivora Macalister alludes to the fourth pectoral or brachiolateral part of the panniculus.
As regards the Marsupialia Cunningham remarks   There is a diversity of opinion regarding the character of the pectoralis quartus.
Owen looks upon it as ' a dismemberment of the pectoralis major.'
Humphrey and Macalister believe that it is in an ' intermediate piece of the superficial external muscular sheet between the pectoralis major and latissimu dorsi. '
Its close connection in many cases with the panniculus carnosus would almost seem to indicate that it is merely a portion of this muscle.
In Cuscus indeed it appeared to be simply the thickened lower margin of the panniculus the connection between them is so intimate. 
It appears to me almost unquestionable that as implied in the above statement the posterior slips of the more deeply inserting pectoral mass are phylogenetically different from the more anterioi' portion of the same layer.
The opinions just quoted as to the derivation from panniculus or latissimus may each of them be correct in different types but the structui'e of the present specimen suggested to me an explanation a development of the idea of Owen which seems to be sustained by the series of Carnivora and which would well explain the oblique position of these posterior elements.
According to this view the structure in the polar bear would indicate that an originally simple and unsegmented pectoralis major muscle has gradually encroached backward upon the abdomen  that during this process its axillary border has become folded under and acquired a retrogressive attachment to the humerus beneath the parent mass  that finally the entire posterior border of the muscle 1 Loc.
Cit.
 Muscular Anatomy of the Civet and Tayra.
Proc.
Roy.
Irish Acad.
Vol.
I Ser.
2 p. 508.
3 Report on the Marsupialia.
Challenger Rep. Zool.
Vol.
V p. 8. has become segmented off as a distinct band which consequently forms the posterior boundary of the p. major and the anterior border of its involuted fold.
Such an explanation would derive probability from the mechanical relations of the parts.
As the original pectoral mass travelled backward and its posterior border came as in this specimen to lie more nearly in a longitudinal than in a transverse line it would encroach more and more upon the axilla that is it would deepen the anterior axillary fold.
As this fold began to project from the general contour of the body there would be a tendency especially during anterior extension of the arm for it to be repressed by folding in and the backward direction of this fold would be determined by the general curve of the integument.
Such involutions of the posterior border of the pectoralis major occur in many mammals and often as in the human subject in a form which makes it appear improbable that they can have been the result of fusion.
This view is also favored in the present subject by the course of the deep anterior thoracic nerve which as mentioned above runs completely around the concavity of the fold.
Through the kindness of Dr. Harrison Allen I was enabled to examine the pectoral in a young Ursus americanus.
In this specimen the first striking character was the much greater thickness and power of the entire mass.
The concavity of the fold was partially obliterated by narrow fasciculi extending between its walls but the type of the polar lear Avas still easily seen  the ventrohumeral slip wa.s much stouter and separated from the rest of the muscle by a ver' distinct line.
The p. minor was as in U. maritimus of the two remaining divisions the more posterior was so intimately fused with the p. major as to be scarcely distinguishable.
The fasciculi running from inside the fold to the sternum began to give the idea of a separate muscle lying immediately behind the pectoralis minor in the same plane.
The thoracic nerve ran about as before.
In an alcoholic probably new born specimen of Melursus libyvs in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia the modification of these parts had gone so far that they closely resembled the condition in the Cat though still considerably simpler than in that animal.
The most superficial division was a nari'ow ribbon evidently the first division of the pectoral of Mivart or the cephalic  pectoantebrachialis  of Wilder and Gage' rising 1 The Cat. '
Anatomical Technology.
from the manubrium and running obliquely ontward and backward to blend with the eephalohumeral and insert in common with it on the middle of the humerus.
Beneath this and crossed oblicjuely by it was a large square mass  ectopectoralis  of Wilder   second division of Mivart which rose along somewhat less than the anterior half of the sternum and inserted into the proximal half of the humerus.
Upon reflecting this three deep divisions were exposed.
The most antei'ioi p. minor rose on the middle third of the sternum and inserted as in the bear  it would evidently correspond to that section in the cat which is termed by Mivart the  third division  and by Wilder the  entopectoralis div.
cephalica. 
The next division which immediately adjoined the last rose along the remainder of the sternum and posterior costal cartilages and inserted by aponeurosis into the pectoral ridge of the humerus at the middle of the insertion of the  ectopectoral. 
It occupied the position of the entopectoralis div.
caudalis of Wilder and seems to correspond to the pectoralis quartus of Marsupials.
The thoracic nerve coming out behind the p. minor ran backwards a short distance over the surface of this muscle and then dipped into its substance where it could be traced between two illdefined laminae almost to its posterior border.
This muscle seems to be the realization of the tendency which was showing itself in the two other bears.
The position of the mass its partial separation into two laminae the relation to these of the thoracic nerve and a certain greater obliquity of its anteroexternal than its anterointernal fibres all appear to indicate that it is the representative of the involuted fold of the pectoralis major of the polar bear which has been split off from the main mass and had its two layers nearly combined.
According to the provisional hypothesis of Wilder this division would be part of the pectoralis minor but the present comparisons indicate it rather to be an independent derivative of the pectoralis major.
The remaining slip which was quite delicate rose for a short distance along the linea alba and inserted beneath the last which also received the insertion of the panniculus and a slip from the latissimus dorsi.
I suppose it to be the ventrohumeral division of the two bears and to answer to the  xiphihumeral  of the cat which would then according to this theory owe its origin to the pectoralis major and not to the latissimus or panniculus.
The  entopectoralis div.
caudalis in the cat is penetrated by the thoracic nerve in exactly the same manner as in this Melursus and would of course be assigned the same origin.
Coracobrachialis as in the black bear rises from the coracoid process and as it passes over the head of the humerus divides into a deep belly coracobrachialis brevis which inserts beneath the common tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major and into a more superficial strand which opposite the latissimus tendon further subdivides into a branch which joins the biceps short head of biceps and another which runs to the internal condyle and ridge coracobrachialis longus.
Triceps shows only three distinct heads.
The outer humeral head has the form of a triangular prism with a long sharp angle which penetrates deeply between the scapular head and the humerus and ends in a narrow plane truncation which is closely applied through the whole length of the arm against a similar plane surface on the outer side of the inner humeral head.
The two thus form an almost continuous mass.
Anconeus rises in a triangle whose apex is four inches above the condyles and inserts on the entire width of the back of the olecranon and for 2 2 inches on its outer side.
It exhibits a splitting into two layers which are separate along its outer border and unite at a10ut the axial line of the humerus.
Epitrochleoanconens small and narrow.
Forearm.
Flexor carpi ulnaris.
The ulnar head is four inches long distance from elbow to wrist being nine inches and inserts by fascia on the outside of the humeral head.
The ulnar nerve is visible between the heads for only about one inch from the elbow and then dips deeply between the humeral head and flexor profundus.
Flexor profundus rises by five heads three from the internal condyle one from the radius and one from the ulna.
Flexor suhlimk rises from the internal condyle and proceeding down the arm as a very broad band ends in four stout flat tendons which supily the four ulnar digits in the usual manner.
Rising from its ulnar side is a fusiform accessory muscle four inches long which ends in a slender tendon that fuses near the metacarpophalangeal joint with the under surface of the sublimis tendon going to the 5th digit.
Another accessory muscle rises from the most ulnar of the three condylar heads of the flexor profundus 2 2 in.
from the wrist its belly 1 in.
long divides into two slender tendons which fuse like the other with the inferior surface of the sublimis tendons of the 3rd and 4th digits.
I have called the present muscle flexor sublimis because of the direct continuance of its tendons into the digits the small accessory tendons seeming merely to insert upon the under surface of the broader tendons of the large muscle.
In the cat on the other hand it is the accessory tendons which have a direct connection with the phalanges and the tendons of the long condylar muscle relatively more delicate and more intimately blended with the palmar fascia than in the bear appear to insert upon the surface of the perforatus sheaths formed by the  accessory  muscles.
Mivart hence calls the long muscle palmaris longus  but in the numerous and often reciprocal variations existing in the palmaris longus flexor sublimis and accessory flexor sublimis throughout the mammalian series questions of homology would appear to be very uncertain.
Lumhricales four in number with their usual relations.
Sujnnator longus rises by two heads one from the supinator ridge immediately above the extensor carpi radialis and the other which can be traced more than twothirds of the way up the humerus from out the substance of the brachialis anticus.
The two unite before reaching the elbow and the resultant belly runs down the forearm as a ribbon about 2 in.
wide to insert by fascia on the lower end of the radius.
Supinator brevis reaches to within H in.
of the distal end of the radius.
Extensor commimis digitorum and extensor minimi digiti as in the cat or black bear.
Extensor indicis fused with ex.
secundi inter nodii pollicis.
Hand.
According to the  typical arrangement  of intrinsic nmscles so admirably presented by Cunningham the elements in the hand are as follows  In the right hand the palmar layer consisted of adductor jjollicis in.
wide adductor indicis I in. ad.
annularis i in. and ad.
minimus I in.
The adductor annularis was a very delicate slip and did not appear in the left hand.
Adductor minimus divides before reaching the base of its digit into three portions of which only one inserts into the digit  of the other two the more radial ends in a long tendon which runs toward the end of the digit to insert into the extensor tendon and the ulnar turns directly backwards and inserts fleshily also into the extensor system opposite the end of the metacarpal.
The intermediate and dorsal layers are closely fused as in Carnivora generally.
The combined systems apparently send a flexor brevis head to the sesamoid and phalanx on each side of each digit but the exact homology of the long tendons which run back to the extensor system is with the exception of abductor minimi digiti not easily interpreted.
These latter are two to every digit one on each side and as a rule show no superiority in size or distinctness on either side  they are inserted into the extensor tendon near the end of the finger and are commonly derived from that portion of the muscle which lies nearest the bone so that they wind around the palmar surface of the flexor brevis in their course.
Which repi'eseut interossei and which do not is not plain.
In the pollex the long tendon of the radial side inserts partly on the base of the proximal phalanx and partly continues as a cord which quickly changes to yellow elastic tissue and inserts into the distal phalanx as a retractor ligament in common with the main extensor tendon.
On the ulnar side the corresponding band seems to contract no tendinous union with the proximal phalanx but continues directly to the distal as the elastic retractor ligament  very suggestive facts especially as most of the  long tendons  in the other fingers terminate in the extensor system just at the point where the retractor ligaments commence while in the foot as mentioned below several of them are more or less continuous with the retractors.
In the minimus the place of the ulnar long tendon is taken by the abductor 7nimimi digiti which rises from the pisiform bone and acquiring scarcely any union with the phalanx inserts into the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti.
The long tendon on the radial side is more delicate than usual.
The flexor brevis pollicis and the outer flexor muscle of the 3rd each derive in the left hand at least a small head of origin from the adductor mass.
Hip and Leg.
Of the proximal muscles only a few show points worthy of mention.
Gluteals maximus sends both of its divisions to the great trochanter there being no continuation by fascia down the thigh.
Gemellus anterior remains distinct from the tendon of the obturator internus and inserts separately into the anterior border of the great trochanter in common with the pyriformis.
The posterior gemellus however joins the obturator tendon and is quite distinct from the anterior.
Semimemhranosus as usual sends its tibial tendon under the internal lateral ligament Avhich in position is mainly continuous with the peroneus quinti digiti.
Extensor longus cUgitorum exhibits more surface on the front of the leg than the tibialis anticus which latter extends under it as a thin sheet.
The tendon of origin of the extensor perforates the capsule of the knee joint to rise in front of the outer condyle of the femur.
Peroneus longus rises partly on the fibula partly on the tibia extending its origin under the ex.
longus digitorum.
Plantaris rises as usual from the external femoral condyle in common Avith the gastrocnemius but contracts no union with that muscle on its way down the leg.
In passing over the heel into the foot it is much less firmly tied to the calcaneum than is the ease in the cat.
Salens rises almost entirely from the tibia.
Gastrocnemius.
The inner head rises from a pit behind the internal condyle of the femur extending.
up vmder the insertion of the semimembranosus and showing no sesamoid bone.
The outer head has its origin in common with the plantaris from the femur and sesamoid above the external condyle sending also a delicate tendinous band g in.
wide over the sesamoid to the patella.
These two heads extend about half way to the heel and then run out into a common thin aponeurosis which is joined 2 in.
above the heel by the narrow tendon of the biceps and then thickening itself receives the soleus as already stated  on the inner side it becomes especially thick forming a distinct cord which near the heel crosses the tendo Achillis to the outer side.
In dissecting these muscles I was impressed Avith the smallness of the gastrocnemius in the bear as compared Avith that in the digitigrade Carnivora and Avas reminded that I had been much more struck by the same circumstance about a year ago while dissecting the limbs of the Indian Elephant in Avhich animal as is well known the gastrocnemius is of singularly slight dimensions.
The physiological reason for such a relation in these two plantigrade animals where the heel does not have to be kept off the ground by a continuous muscular exertion is evident and I regret that no comparative Aveights of the masses in the elephant were preserved.
I hoAvever selected a slightly built cat from a number preserved in alcohol at the Biological Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania and Avith it made comparisons in Aveight with the bear.
The leg in each case was disarticulated at the knee and ankle and the crus thus obtained cleared from fascia and the extrinsic hamstring muscles.
The test was perhaps not entirely fair as the cat was probably older in proportion than the bear but it was quite a spare specimen and cannot have much increased the proper difference.
The results were as follows 100  Ursiis maritimus.
Entire crus 29 oz.
or Gastrocnemial system gast. solens and plantaris 10   Gastrocnemius 4   Soleus 3   Plantaris 3   Felis domestica.
Crus 465 grams or Gastrocnemial system 185   Gastrocnemius 123   Soleus 22   Plantaris 40   344  138  103  103  100  398  265  47  86  A large muscular cat gave 435  for the gastrocnemial system and 28'5  for the gastrocnemius so the difference is not great.
In the above examples it will also be seen that in the bear the gastrocnemius constitutes 40  of its own system while in the cat it is 665 .
Foot.
Extensor hrevis digitorum divides into three muscular bellies of which the outer one sends a tendon to the outer side of the 4th digit the next divides into two tendons which supply the inner side of the 4th and the outer side of the 3rd and the third siiuilarly divides to supply the outer side of the 2nd and the hallux.
As usual the peroneus quinti digiti takes the place of the short extensor in the 5th digit.
Flexor hrevis slips to the index and medius come from a muscular belly but on the outer side the muscle has degenerated into a broad thick aponeurosis so that the tendons to the 4th and 5th do not run back into muscle but are continuous through this fibrous mass with the plantaris tendon.
Accessorius rises on the posterior and external edges of the calcaneum and inserts on the deep flexor tendon formed by the union of flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis.
Its muscular fibres are restricted to the side of the foot all that portion on the sole being tendinous.
Lumhricales four a.s usual  the one inserting in the fifth digit rises from the 4th deep tendon.
Rising from the 5th deep flexor tendon beside the lumbricals is a simihir but somewhat longer belly whicli blends with the 5th flexor brevis tendon.
This seems to correspond to what Mivart describes as  accessorius  in the third and fourth digits of the cat. The cat however has a distinct accessorius similar to the one in the present specimen.
In the plantar layer of adductores we have adductor hallucis ad.
indicis and ad.
minimi digiti which rise in common from the bases of the 2nd and 3rd metatarsals and are united for a third of the way out towards the phalanges.
The adductor minimi digiti soon divides into two heads of which the outer inserts into the inner side of the distal end of the 5th metatarsal constituting the opponens minimi digiti.
The other head again divides into two slips of which the more distal becomes the normal adductor while the more proximal runs around to blend with the extensor system at the metatarsophalangeal joint.
The intermediate and dorsal systems are fused as in the hand and terminate in a similar maimer.
Flexor brevis slips appear to be given to each side ot each digit  the flexor brevis hallucis rises by a number of small heads from the cuneiform and ligaments at the base of the hallux.
In the dorsal sj'stem there is a slender abductor ossis metatarsi minimi digiti from the posteroexternal part of the plantar surface of the calcaneum to the tuberosity at the root of the 5th metatarsal and a stout abductor minimi digiti which was much cut on both sides by the skinning.
The  long tendons  described in the hand appear on both sides of each digit except the 1st and 5th.
There is none on the outer side of the 5th its place being taken by the regular abductor and there appeared to be no representative on the tibial side of the hallux in either foot though the mutilation of that region in the skinning might have destroyed it.
That on the fibular side of the hallux in' I have recently seen a cat which lacked the connecting muscles in the third and fourth digits and possessed one on the fifth thus repeating the structure shown here in the polar bear.
11 serts partly into the proximal phalanx sending also a few fibres to the extensor tendon at that point and partly continues as a yellow elastic cord to form the retractor ligament of that side.
The relation of these long tendons to the retractor ligaments was also more or less evident in the other digits especially in the 4th of one foot.
On the outer side of that digit the long tendon after giving a slip to the extensor system at the metatarsophalangeal joint ran on to join the extensor tendon near its insertion but before doing this gave off a broad band which blended with the entire width of the normal retractor ligament of that side.
On the inner side the long tendon joined the extensor but some fibres immediately left it again to become elastic and form the dorsal border of the retractor ligament.
1888.
155
