OBSERVATIONS UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL IN NEOTOMA FUSCIPES  A CONTRIBUTION TO THE MORPHOLOGY OF THE RODENTIA BY R. W. SHUFELDT C. M. Z. S. While collecting in the vicinity of San Bernardino California daring the spring of 1887 Mr. F. Stephens secured a female specimen of Neotoma fuscipes which was far advanced in pregnancy at the time of capture.
From this source I obtained an embryo of this wood rat and am under great obligations to Mr. Stephens for the opportunity it has given me to record something in reference to its developmental anatomy and my observations upon it will form the subject of the present paper.
Neotoma fuscipes is by no means a common species being restricted in its geographical range to certain parts of the Pacific coast and northern Mexico.
I have never personally taken this representative of the genus but I have on numerous occasions secured its near relative the form found throughout New Mexico Neotoma cinerea of which I have a series of skeletons at my hand of my own preparing.
Just prior to birth the embryo of N fuscipes is quite hairless and measures in its total length about 4cms between vertex and tip of tail presenting all the general characteristics of the embryo of this genus of the Murida.
For its total length the head measures 1 centimetre and some few millimetres and in drawing my plates which illustrate this account of its skull I have enlarged these parts six diameters.
In working out the skull of this little rodent I have had to make constant reference to the following works which though the only ones available to me at the time by no means pretend to be a complete bibliography of the subject while on the other hand they constitute the best aids we possess to embryological research upon the mammalia  Allen Harrison M. D. On a revision of the Ethmoid Bone in the Mammalia.
Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Anat.
Harvard College Cambridge Mass.
Nov. 1882 pis.
17 pp.
135164.
Balfour F. M. A Treatise on Comparative Embryology.
London 1881.
Flower W. H. An Introduction to the Osteology of the Mammalia 1885.
Article Mammalia Encyc.
Brit.
9th Edition 1883.
Forbes W. A. Coll.
Scientific Memoirs.
Garrod A. H. Coll.
Scientific Memoirs.
Huxley T. H. Elements of Comparative Anatomy.
London.
1864.
A Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals London 1871.
Owen Sir Richard.
Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of Vertebrates.
Parker W. K. The Morphology of the Skull.
1887.
On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Mammalia.
Phil.
Trans of the Royal Soc.
1885.
Parker W. N. NYiedersheim's Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates.
1886.
Parker T. J. Zootomy.
London 1884.
Besides numerous special memoirs of other authors and laborers in similar fields.
A general survey of the Skull and of the investing bones.
Professor Parker I think would say that the embryo before me was in the  fourth stage inasmuch as endostosis has at many points invaded the cartilaginous parts while ossification is more than apparent in such investing bones of the primordial skull as the interparietal and the supraoccipital which latter is as yet in two distinct lateral moieties.
We might describe the form of the skull of this embryo as being subconoid the apex being represented by the snout and the hemispherical base by the region of the cranial vault and infraoccipital parts.
Judging from the skull of an adult of another species Neotoma cinerea this form materially changes by the time the animal arrives at maturity for then the skull is quite flat for its entire superior aspect and from incisor teeth to occipital condyles.
Most of the structures of the basis cranii are to be found in a plane parallel to this superior surface.
Then too frontal parietal and interparietal bones do not quite fulfil in the skull of the adult what they promise in the embryo  by this I mean that as growth proceeds the mesial portions gain area over the first and last mentioned elements and come to be the chief agents in forming the cranial roof.
In our embryo the nasals have advanced to no inconsiderable degree of calcification after the manner of the membrane bones among the higher mammalia generally.
By chafing their superior surfaces with the edge of the scalpel the grit of the ossificatory state can at once be detected though they are yet thin and easily punctured.
Each one is in contact laterally for its entire length with the premaxillary of its own side.
In front they overlap the cartilaginous snout while posteriorly they are separated from the frontals by a membranous suture the coronal suture of anthropotomy.
They curve downwards mesially and are in contact with each other for their entire lengths.
A frontal as another investing membrane bone seems to be rather further advanced towards ossification than we found a nasal to be and this pair of bones are as before remarked the chief roofing elements at this stage of the middle area' of the skull.
Behind and towards the middle line each one presents a rounded angle to the  fontanelle  fig.
2 fo.
 and is separated from the parietal of its own side by a membranous interval.
Within either orbit a frontal is in contact with the nascent maxillary margin in front and below while mesoposteriorly and at the side the bone is juxtaposed to the growing margins of the aliand orbitosphenoids and the squamosal.
Plate I Fig.
1.
Mesially the parietals are well separated from each other by the intervention of the  fontanelle  Plate I Fig.
2 fo..
Here they are at this stage anteroposteriorly rather narrow but each one becomes gradually broader as it proceeds outwards and curves downwards towards the lateral aspect of the cranium where the bone is separated by a considerable membranous sutural interval from the squamosal for its anterior marginal moiety  its posterior border jutting freely into the unossified tract above and behind the auditory bulla of the same side.
Either parietal shows even better evidence of ossification than the frontal in front of it being best marked at the middle of the bone while the periphery is yet largely membranous which fact no doubt allows the bones to assume the position they eventually attain to in the skull of the adult Neotoma.
There is a large and distinct interparietal which the writer is inclined to think ossifies from two centres one on either side of the middle line though at the present stage it is one piece and more thoroughly ossified than any of the elements described in the last few paragraphs Plate II Figs.
1 2 and 4 i. p..
It has the form of a lune its straight edge being directed anteriorly and the middle third of the same forming the hinder boundary for the fontanelle while its arc behind is juxtaposed to the nonunited supraoccipitals the extremities of the bone jutting at either lateral aspect into the unossified area above the auditory bulla.
In an adult Neotoma cinerea the interparietal can be easily made out by its sutural margins and it will be seen that it comes there more to contribute to the cranial roof rather than to close in the back of the braincase as it does in our embryo N.fuscipes.
Of all the investing bones of the outer surface of the cranium in our specimen none possess a greater interest than the squamosal.
One of these sq stands between the frontal and parietal of the same side above and the primary structures of the ear and associate parts below.
Essentially at this stage the squamosal is a flat bone of a pearshaped outline the smaller part being directed backwards and the larger oval moiety forwards which latter bears near its anterior periphery the forwardprojecting zygomatic process.
It articulates with the posterior extremity of the jugal of the corresponding side.
Even in the adult Xeotoma the glenoid facette of the squamosal is not nearly as definitely marked as we find it in many other forms of eutherian mammals so in this embryo the feature is still less pronounced at the stage of development in the specimen before us.
In figure 1 of my plates I have intentionally slightly dislodged the mandible from its normal position the better to show the embryonic otic structures which latter have to a less degree been similarly dealt with.
Apparently one of the scalelike small and fairly well ossified lacrymals presents a greater surface to the facial aspect of the skull than it does to the orbital and at this stage the lacrymal canal Plate I Fig.
1 I. c. may be seen just anterior to the slitlike and extensive infraorbital foramen.
Professor Flower has said that this orifice is always well within the margin of the orbit 1 but this wood rat undoubtedlv constitutes an exception to the rule for in the embryo it is found as I have just described it and in the skulls of the adult specimens of N. cinerea at my hand the lacrymal canal is found within that vertical fissure which in these rodents represents the infraorbital foramen.
It is here quite large wedgeshaped the edge being below and its roof above formed by its maxillary which base also forms the verti1 Flower W. H. Osteology of the Mammalia 3d Edition p. 181. cal plate of its outer boundary while its inner wall is formed chiefly by the lacrymal and to a very small degree posteriorly by the frontal.
The jugal takes no part in its formation in Neotoma.
Rodents are notorious for the large size of the premaxillary bones in their skulls and to this rule the genus now under consideration forms no exception.
Here a premaxillary of either side stands between the corresponding nasal and maxillary preventing those elements of the face from coming in contact at any point.
Superiorly it sends backwards a lanceolateshaped apophysis to overlap the frontal of the same side and this feature is distinctly shown in Plate I Figs.
1 and 2.
Laterally it makes up the chief sidewall of the conical forepart of the skull of this embryo and rounds under to form the roof of the anterior part of the mouth though here a mesially oval foramen largely prevents it from suturally uniting with the fellow of the opposite side down the middle line Plate I Fig.
3.
Each one anteriorly and beneath shows a diminutive pitlet in which the incisor tooth is budding out the latter not quite tilling the hole closely and withal being yet in an elementary state.
Either premaxillary in the oval foramen above referred to and on the outer aspect of the nasal septum in front send backwards a teatlike process into the spinal space  and in the skull of the adult Neotoma these processes seem to have finally each pressed down upon the vomer and fused with its inferoanterior part.
A premaxillary articulates with a nasal a frontal a lacrymal the vomer the ethmoidal mass and with the fellow of the opposite side and at this stage it seems to have progressed in its ossification about as far as the nasals have already described above.
The maxillary on either side is a very important not to say interesting investing bone of the face and roof of the mouth mx.
It sends backwards a delicate zygomatic process which underlaps the jugal to complete the zygoma.
To some extent anteriorly it contributes to the formation of the bony walls of the orbit especially where it articulates with the lacrymal.
In front just beyond the infraorbital foramen it articulates by a vertical suture with the premaxillary of the same side while behind this it sweeps downwards and inwards to complete the posterior moiety of its own side of the periphery of the incisor foramen or  the anterior palatine foramen  of Flower after which it contributes to the osseous oral roof articulating by a transverse zigzag suture with the palatine and at the lateral aspect developing at this stage the elementary alveolar  process  for the lodgment of the molar teeth.
These latter are now in a very primitive condition though their form can be made out with no little distinctness.
As in the case of the incisor teeth their pristine sockets are larger than is necessary to lodge their dental occupants.
According to Wiedersheim the jugal Plate I Figs.
1 2 and 3 J is considered to be one of the investing bones of the outer side of the mouth cavity as the vomer is considered an investing bone of the mouth cavity proper.
In Xeotoma as in some other rodents the jugal has an uncommon disposition as it is overlapped by the zygomatic process of the squamosal and underlapped by the maxillary.
For the most part it is to be found lying along on the superior aspect of the maxillary while but a limited portion of it is to be seen upon a better view of the arch at the middle of its continuity.
In neither the embryo N. fuscipes nor in adult specimens of the genus does the jugal possess any salient characteristics its sole function being to complete the slender zygomatic arch and were it not that the demands of a universal law exacted its presence its actual use might easily be dispensed with for the zygomatic arch could just as well be completed by a meeting of the maxillary and zygomatic process.
Indeed in some adult skulls of JY.
cinerea it takes a good lens and careful observation to detect the presence of the jugal bone at all so perfectly is it moulded to the conformation of this delicate osseous rod which curves below and well out beyond the orbital cavity in one way defining its limits and lending to the skull of this species its wellknown and characteristic form.
The vomer presents nothing peculiar contributing as it does to the hinder moiety of the nasal septum and ossifying rather late in the growth of the skull.
We may refer to this bone further on when we come to investigate the formation of the rhinal chambers.
We next pass to a brief consideration of some of the most interesting structures in this or any other mammalian skull  I refer to the mandible and those parts at its posterior extremity which are concerned in the elaboration of the auditory apparatus.
Here to some extent we are upon debatable premises and are brought face to face with yet mooted questions in morphology and consequently must proceed with caution.
Plate I Fig.
1 shows very well the form of the mandible upon its lateral aspect.
At this stage it is deep and thick although the symphysis anteriorly has not as yet coossified the two halves here being held in juxtaposition by the not inextensive union between the fore ends of the Meckelian cartilaginous rod.
Those toothsacs for the lower incisor teeth are about as far advanced as those described for the preinaxillary bones and this applies with equal truth to the molars of this lower jaw though perhaps these are not quite as far advanced as the molars of the maxillary above.
For the most part the mandible has to no small degree ossified.
We are to note however that the summit of the low and illdefined coronoid process  is tipped with nascent cartilage and this state obtains also with the yet growing condyle here harbored in the shallow glenoid cavity of the squamosal on either side.
Below these protuberances a prominent angular process is to be observed also cartilagetipped as in the case of the condyle and coronoid.
These several prominences of the posterior end of either ramus of the lower jaw in this embryo rodent gives it a very marked vertical depth and a fanlike form which renders it quite conspicuous.
Through the ramus and thoroughly ensheathed by it longitudinally courses the slender Meckelian rod of cartilage to fuse anteriorly as already stated with its fellow of the opposite side.
At its hinder and free end the Meckelian cartilage becomes clubbed and of a peculiar form  the extremity proper is cupped to receive in articulation the incus while below this cup the rod sends forwards and downwards a very delicate cylindrical spur of cartilage here incorporated in the plane of the membrana tympani within the semiarc of the tympanic annulus.
These parts seem yet to be largely performed in cartilage and we see the malleus in the hinder end of this Meckelian cartilage while the labors of Salensky Fraser and Kitchen Parker seem to have at last definitely decided that  the incus is the upper element of the first or mandibular arch.
Here in this embryo Neotoma the incus develops an unusually long posterior crus as shown in Figure 1 extending over towards the auditory bulla an.
As in the vast majority of the higher groups of the mammalia the stapes is stirrupshaped and its footpiece closes up the fenestra ovalis and this stapes according to the most recent researches has been said to correspond with the hyomandibular of fishes or in other words is the upper element of the hyoid arch as the incus as we have just said is the offconstricted piece of the proximal extremity of the mandibular arch.
Agreeing with the first two described auditory ossicles the stapes at this stage in Neotoma fuscipes seems yet to be wholly in cartilage.
I failed to detect the rudimentary interhyal in the tendon of the stapedius muscle but might do so were additional material at hand.
These wood rats have tympanic bullae of no inconsiderable size and in the dried skull of an old A 7  dnerea their lower surfaces are quite transparent each being somewhat laterally compressed and inclined towards each other so that were their imaginary horizontal long axes produced to the front they would intersect at a point just slightly anterior to the posterior narial aperture.
In form then these bullae are subcompressed ovoid where mesial ly they are moulded upon the bones they come in contact with at the base of the cranium at its inferoexternal aspect which have to do with the auditory chamber.
Turning for the moment from our consideration of the proper  investing bones I desire to pass a few remarks upon the  hyoidean apparatus.
Essentially this seems to be built up upon the plan of these parts as we find them in the more highly organized eutherian mammalia generally.
In the specimen before us however ossification even at this stage appears but to have advanced slowly the several segments of the arch yet being largely in cartilage.
All the elements of these parts seem to be present in this embryo and the most notable feature to me is the form of the basibranchial as I make it out.
It is far more extensively curved than Parker found it to be in the hedgediog by which I mean the curved rod of cartilage composing it is longer Plate I b. h.
br..
By examining the arch in an adult N. cinerea the same feature seems to be present for the  body of the hyoid  is there larger and curved.
Another mammal the dog as drawn by Flower also shows a curved basibranchial whereas in the armadillo it is a medium piece united apparently with the thyrohyals Parker.
The thyrohyals in the embryo Neotoma are but feebly developed t. hy and remain inconspicuous after ossification in them is completed.
Agreeing with most ordinary mammals the three remaining pieces of the hyoid present nothing of marked peculiarity.
Returning to the investing bones of the skull there yet remains two of them to be described in the present connection viz.
  the palatine and the pterygoid.
If there be any superficial ossific deposit yet in either pterygoid Plate I Fig.
3 pg the writer failed to discover it after a very careful investigation.
We are aware that in the pig at the fourth stage of its development the pterygoids are somewhat advanced in their ossification but here in our specimen each pterygoid proper now consists in a wellpronounced subcylindrical cartilaginous rodlet to some extent centrally ossified which on either hand projects out from behind the ossifying palatine of its own side.
External to either one of these we observe the continuation of the bone in its 'external pterygoid plate' which is also in cartilage and arises both from the aliand basisphenoidal regions.
Neotoma cinerea in the skull of the adult shows well how the pterygoids are finally fashioned in bone at maturity and if they represent the condition for the genus we find that the external plate in each is nearly horizontal in position and raised above the frontal and sphenoidal regions the sutural traces remain quite distinct the hamular processes  have their extremities produced and turned slightly outwards while these apophyses are not far apart mesially nor do their ends lack much of reaching the auditory bulla on either side where the Eustachian tube opens.
Passing next to a palatine bone we find it to be ossified to no inconsiderable extent with the salient angles of its horizontal portion rounded off its borders being yet membranous or in an imperfect cartilaginous stroma a tissue furnished by the epiblast during the growth of the embryo and now taking on ossification.
The ''posterior palatine foramina are easily found while the hinder margins of these bones unite to form the lower free edge of the posterior bases.
Having the most usual relations to the nasal septum and surrounding parts the ascending lamina of a palatine is not so thoroughly ossified as the horizontal portion of the bone  and at this stage of its growth this embryo Neotoma may be said to have a cleft palate so wide are the medial sutures between the elements.
Of the endocranium and the development of the cartilage bones.
To Professor Kitchen Parker are we indebted more than to any other single writer since the dawn of anatomical science to the present time for our knowledge of the morphology of the vertebrate skull and from his recent writings the mammalian skull in particular.
Under the influence of his never weary hand has this one of the most difficult problems which man has ever investigated grown out into the light with all the beauty associated with the budding of a complete flower.
In reading his Structure and Development of the Skull in the Mammalia one loses himself as though he were perusing pages of the most fascinating romance and is led on step by step as  the thing  grows and shapes and matures with an almost irresistible passion for the marvelous story.
Omitting those parts which I have referred to above and confining ourselves to the structures which properly fall within the present section we are clearly shown how in the endocranium in its pristine membranous condition there is laid down at its base in primitive cartilage the pair of rods which are the ground plan of the future braincase the harborage of that most powerful of all organs the encephala.
These rods of the trabecules cranii which behind embrace the notochord the parachordals while anteriorly their segmentations become the trabecules proper and enclose the primitive pituitary space.
From these simple beginnings part after part grows and evolves until in due time we have before us the mature skull with all its associated structures.
At the appointed instant sensecapsules are born and elaborated pari passu as the cranial moulding proceeds  and nerves and vessels burrow with precision through tracts and byways long known to their kind in the ancestral types of the species guided by the ceaselessly acting laws of variation and evolution.
Turning to the nether aspect of the basis cranii in our embryo Neotomu fuscipes we find the foramen magnum Plate I Fig.
3.
m. to be of a subelliptical' outline a form retained probably throughout life as it obtains in the skulls of other adult Neotomas which I have examined.
The supraoccipital is still in two parts the medial vertical suture being very evident.
It is however rapidly ossifying bone having advanced to the superior arc of the foramen and no doubt that early in the next stage the supraoccipital would be in one piece s.
o..
The condyles show very prettily and as structures developed by the exoccipitals e o.
they are well started in the process of ossification though their ossific centres have not yet impinged upon either the supra or basioccipital.
Much cartilage is still to be found both above them and at their sides.
Embedded in this material below we are to observe just in front of the occipital foramen the subquadrilateral form of the basioccipital already nicely started in bone.
This osseous part does not as yet reach the auditory bulla on either hand though posteriorly it arrives at the margin of the foramen magnum.
Anteriorly a cartilaginous tract intervenes between the concave border of the basioccipital and the ossific centre which represents the future basisphenoicl.
This latter bs is at present but a small squarish piece of bone occurring in the basic cartilage just posterior to the pterygoid which in the skull of an old iV.
cinerea is wedgeshaped in outline for its exposed surface and stands between the pterygoids the narrow end to the front separated by a distinct suture from the presphenoid and the broad end behind separated by a similar suture from the basioccipital  the three bones thus continuous making a characteristic area having the form of an acute isosceles triangle.
Nearly every trace of the notochord has disappeared in our embryo Neotoma at this stage its former presence being but faintly indicated by a whitish line traversing the basioccipital plate in a mediolongitudinal direction and entirely disappearing near its middle.
Beyond the presphenoid shows commencing osseous deposit in a narrow line down its length but is still chiefly performed in cartilage the former being barely perceptible.
Referring again to skulls of the N. cinerea adult specimens it becomes worthy of remark that the supraoccipital region and the foramen magnum are both in nearly the same plane it being quite vertical and almost at right angles with the horizontal plane in which the interparietal and parietals lie.
This part of the cranium in our embryo as already stated above is more or less rounded as shown in the figures.
To the outer side of either exoccipital is seen a distinct and spinelike paroccipital which feature I fail to find in so early a stage as the embryo before us represents.
Professor Parker in his famous work upon the ' Morphology of the Skull ' in alluding to the development of the pig at its ' fourth stage' contends that there the notochord is not yet quite obliterated in the basioccipital though it is rapidly becoming so.
He also points out that a separate ossific centre in that animal is to be found in either massive condyle but they soon coalesce with the exoccipitals on either side.
Agreeing with Neotoma fuscipes the supraoccipital in the pig at this stage is in two pieces or  patches as Professor Parker expresses it and they  run into one another in a day or two  p. 288.
Of the three bones that unite to form the periotic ossification I find but one that as yet appears in any Avay advanced beyond a cartilaginous condition  and this is the opisthotic Plate II Fig.
5 o.p.
After the membrane bones which form the vault of the skull have been duly removed this auditory osseous element may be detected posterior to and to the other side of the periotic capsule which is otherwise in nascent cartilage though quite dense and on the verge of ossifying.
This internal view of the cranial casket reveals the fact that at this stage at least the periotic mass is but slightly elevated above the general level of the floor of the braincase and in no way as prominent as the external auditory bulla on either side.
It still however is more or less rounded and it is only later in life apparently that this projection becomes somewhat angulated as we see it in the adult skull.
In this region in the cranium of the embryo Neotoma the usual vascular and nerve foramina can be easily made out.
Already in another paragraph I have alluded to the state in which we find the basiand presphenoid Plate II Fig.
6 b. s. and p. s. and it will be seen that the anterior part of the cranial floor is fairly wellpaved by two other ossifications of mammalian skull.
I refer to the rather large and squarish alisphenoids al.
s. one on either side of the firstnamed element and the more oval orbitosjhenoids one on either side of the presphenoidal cartilage.
These bones are already wellossified and are pierced by the usual nerve foramina  the latter by the optic II and the former by the third branch of the fifth V 3  through the foramen ovale.
A slight pituitary depression is to be observed at its most usual site upon the presphenoid.
The arrangement of these parts then with its true stirrupshaped stapes indicates that Neotoma holds quite an exalted position structurally among the eutherian mammalia.
Beyond the sphenoidal region the endocranium gradually but rapidly narrows and just posterior to the nasal structures and chambers we meet with a subvertical cribriform plate cr.p.
showing minute perforations for the passage of the nerves.
Mesially a posteriorly rounded crista galli Plate II Fig.
5 cr.
g. is to be seen.
These parts are as yet all performed in cartilage.
By carefully removing the investing bones from the fore part of the skull we at once bring into view the chondrified elements of the nasal organs.
We have already alluded to the vomer and now it can be easily detached from the cartilaginous lamina perpendiculnris with which it is articulated by a longitudinal median groove traversing its entire superior margin.
The base for the vomer at this stage is entirely in bone is some 3 cms.
long and sharp or more or less sharp along its inferior edge.
As in most rodents the lamina perpendiculars is produced forwards as the septum nasi Fig.
6 s.
i..
Cribriform plate and lamina perpendicularis together form the mesethmoid.
Jacobson's Organs one on either side of the septum are as in the vast majority of the rodentia well developed in this embryo and as in the case of Lepus appear to be ensheathed by the backward extending posteriorly free terminating palatine processes of the snout as seen in Figure 6 re.
c.
These organs have been described by Prof. Wiedersheim Parker's translation as being a paired accessory nasal cavity which in an early embryonic stage becomes entirely separated from the nasal chamber and which is supplied by the olfactory and trigeminal nerves.
They are surrounded by the cartilages of Jacobson likewise paired and of a scrolllike form.
Uniting with the anteroventral aspect of the septum nasi beneath we are to note the alinasal cartilage on either hand encircling the external nostrils e. n. and al.
.
 while the aliteptal one on each side of the septum on the dorsal aspect run the entire length and roof over the nasal chambers Plate II Fig.
5 al.
sp.
Large and of peculiar form the aliethmoids form a striking feature here and may be seen both upon dorsal and ventral aspects.
To some extent they form the roof of each rhinal chamber as well as the sides and floor.
Inferiorly they become much expanded behind rounded encircling submesial vacuities as shown in Figure 6 Plate II al.
e..
Finally turning to the ventral aspect of this minute endocranium we see external to either recurrent cartilage right and left of the median ossified vomer v the inferior turbinal proper '.
tb.
 each one in addition to its usual attachments in mammals of this order is here connected with the septum nasi anteriorly and terminates behind in a teatlike process extending somewhat further in that direction than does the vomer.
They swell at the middle of their continuity being convex externally and concave upon their vomerine aspects.
In a former paragraph I have already alluded to the  recurrent cartilages so designated by Parker re.
c and these may now be seen upon this view.
Especial attention is invited to them as they are the essential capsules which enclose the organs of Jacobson.
To study them properly it becomes necessary to gently press outwards the inferior turbinate.
At present they are in cartilage entirely thin and of an elegant scrolllike form being for the most part open superiorly and in contact with the vomer mesially being in either ease outgrowths of the alee nasi.
With this I close the present account of the cranium in this embryo of one of our not abundant species of American rodents.
Upon some future occasion I trust to compare it quite extensively with the development and morphology of the skull in other types of mammals of this country especially the rodentia.
Explanation of Plates I and II.
Note.
 The figures of these two plates were drawn and colored by the author directly from his dissections and in them the membrane bones have been simply shaded  the cartilage bones colored orange  and the endocranium and other cartilaginous parts purple.
In all the figures the structures are increased six times the size of life and the following letters used as abbreviations  ag.
p. Angular process.
al.
e. Aliethmoid.
al.
n. Alinasal.
al.
s. Alisphenoid.
al.
sp.
Aliseptal.
a. ty.
Annulus tympanicus.
au.
Auditory capsule.
b. h. br.
Basihyobranchial.
b. o. Basiocclpital.
b. s. Basisphenoid.
cr.
g. Crista galli.
cr.
p. Coronoid process.
a pi.
Cribriform plate.
cl.
Dentary.
e. hy.
Epihyal.
e. n. External nostrils.
.
Frontal.
f. m. Foramen magnum.
fo.
Fontanelle.
rl.f.
Glenoid cavity.
i. Incus.
i.
.
Interparietal.
i. tb.
Inferior turbinal.
j. Jugal.
I. Lacrymal.
I. c. Lacrymal canal.
mk.
Meckel's cartilage.
ml.
Malleus.
' tyMembrana tympani.
mx.
Maxillary.
ii.
Nasal.
nf.
Nasal floor.
11. v. Nasial valve.
oc.
c. Occipital condyle.
op.
Opisthotic.
0. s. Orbitosphenoid.
pParietal.
pa. Palatine.
p. e. Perpendicular ethmoid.
pgPterygoid.
ps.
Presphenoid.
pin.
Premaxillary.
pyPituitary region.
re c. Recurrent cartilage.
s. n. Septum nasi.
s. 0.
Supraoccipital.
sq.
Squamosal.
St. Stapes.
t. hy.
Thyrohyal.
v. Vomer.
Plate I.
Fig.
1.
Left lateral view of the skull of an embryo Neotoma fusdpes with hyoidean apparatus attached  X 6.
Fig.
2.
The same specimen seen from above  mandible removed.
Fig.
3.
The same from below  mandible removed.
Roman numerals indicate nerves or their foramina.
Plate II.
Fig.
4.
Posterior view of the skull of an embryo Neotoma fusdpes same specimen as figured in Plate I X 6  mandible removed.
Fig.
5.
The endocranium of a specimen of an embryo of Neotomafuscipes the same skull as is figured in Plate I fig.
1 X 6.
All the investing bones have been removed and superfluous parts dissected away.
Fig.
6.
The same specimen shown in Fig.
5 under view.
18s9.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
29 February 5.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Thirtytwo persons present.
Messrs Joseph Leidy J. P. Lesley Persifor Frazer Angelo Heilprin and W. B. Scott were elected to constitute the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award.
February 12.
Mr. Wm.
W. Jefferis in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication   New Species of Shells from New Hebrides.
By W. D. Hartman M. D.  Note on Elagastis bipinnulatus.
By Seth E. Meek and Charles H. Bollman.
February 19.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
The Sabretooth Tiger of Florida.
 Prof. Leidy directed attention to a specimen recently received from our fellow member Joseph Willcox now in Florida.
Mr. Willcox writes that he found it in a limestone quarry and that it appeared to him to possess some interest.
This it certainly does as it proves to be the skull of that most formidable of felines the extinct Sabretooth Tiger variously described under the names of Drepanodon Machairodus and Smilodon.
The specimen consists of the nearly complete cranium with the greater portion of one side of the face which has lost the teeth but retains all the alveoli.
Of the molar teeth the first and last of the series had been shed and the alveoli obliterated.
The skull indicates an animal approximating in size the existing Tiger and Lion.
It also approximates in size that of Machairodus neogaeus of South America than which it is rather more than an inch less in length breadth and depth.
It exhibits other slight differences but all may be only of varietal or even individual significance.
Eegarding the specimen as indicating a distinct variety or species it may be named Drepandon or Machairodus floridanus.
Its sabretooth canine is of less breadth than in the former and the hiatus in advance is considerably less indicating a proportionately smaller inferior canine.
The zygoma is absolutely deeper and flatter.
Of Machairodus neogaeus we possess the cast of a skull from the bonecaverns of Brazil the original of which is in the natural history museum of Paris.
Dr. H. Burmeister has described and figured a complete skeleton of this species from the pampas formation of the Argentine Republic preserved in the museum of Buenos Ayres.
Prof.
Cope in the American Naturalist of 1880 notices another skeleton from the same region under the name of Smilodon necator.
With Dr. Burmeister Dr. Leidy regarded all these as pertaining to one species and thought it probable that the Florida skull might also belong to the same.
Comparative measurements of the Florida skull the cast of the Brazil skull and Dr. Burmeister's figures of the Argentine skull are given below but some of them from the imperfection of the means are to be regarded as only approximative correct.
The measurements are given in millemetres.
Florida.
Argentine.
Brazil.
Length of skull from occipital condyles to incisive border .
.
.
285 330 330 Breadth of skull at widest part of zygoma 190 230 230
Depth of skull at postglenoid tubercle 125 164 160
Length of skull from behind zygoma to incisive alveoli 210 245 225 Breadth at mastoid processes .
.
126 143 140 Breadth of narrowest portion of cranium 57 57 Breadth at occipital condyles .
.
105 112 Breadth of face at sectorial molars 150 170 Breadth of face at canines ... 94 112 110
Fore and aft space of the teeth .
.
140 146 163 Fore and aft space of two molars .
55 62 63 Transverse space of the incisors .
58 66 55 Breadth fore and aft of sectorial molar alveolus 37 43 42 Breadth fore and aft of second premolar alveolus 16 18 18 Breadth fore and aft of canine alveolus 40 45 53 Breadth transverse of canine alveolus 20 20 25 Breadth fore and aft of glenoid articulation 25 25 Breadth transverse of glenoid articulation 50 50 Depth of face at infraorbital margin 60 55 53 Depth of zygoma 46 38 43 In association with the skull of the Tiger Mr. Willcox found a cervical vertebra six lower molars and five incisors of a Horse.
They have the same appearance of preservation as the former and are probably cotemporary fossils though they present no distinctive characters from the corresponding parts of the Domestic Horse.
With them there was also found a lower molar of a Llama Auchen in minor.
IAnguatula Diesingii from the Sooty Mangabey.
 Mr. J. E. Ives remarked that in preparing for maceration a specimen of Cercocebus fuliginosus he found that the great omentum contained a large number of encysted specimens of Lingaatula Diesingii.
The cysts occurred almost invariably in the fatty portions of the membrane.
A few specimens also existed in the lungs and pleurae and in the peritoneal lining of the abdominal cavity.
This form has not been recorded before from Cercocebus fuliginosus.
In 1848 Van Beneden described the species from the mesentery of Cynocephalus mormon.
In 1849 under the synonym of Pentastomum tornatum Creplin placed on record the finding of it by Gurlt in the greater omentum of Macacus Cynomolgus and by Schultze in the omentum and mesentery of Cynocephalus mormon.
In 1850 under the name of Pentastomum euryzonum Diesing redescribed Van Beneden's form and Dr. Leidy recorded it  from the surface of the liver beneath the peritoneum  in Cynocephalus porcarius.
The monkey in which this parasite was found had recently died in the Zoological Garden and had been presented to the Academy by the Society.
February 26.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Fourteen persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication    On two minerals from Delaware Co. Penna.
By F. A. Genth. 
Contribution to the LifeHistories of Plants No.
IV.
By Thomas Meehan.
Mr. Edwin J. Houston was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed  
