A CONTRIBUTION TO THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE SPIDER FAUNA OF THE BERMUDA ISLANDS.
BY DR. GEO.
MARX.
Little has been heretofore known of the spider fauna of the Bermudas.
Mr. Black wall described six species in the Ann.
and Mag.
of Nat Hist. 1868  and Prof. E. Simon in speaking of the Arachnida of the Atlantic Islands in the Annales d. 1.
Soc.
Entom.
de France 1883 has none to add to the list of Mr. Blackwall.
He however alludes to the character of the Bermuda spider fauna as appearing to be related to that of the Azores and the Canary Islands.
Lately Prof. Angelo Heilprin of Philadelphia visited the Bermudas and collected there twelve species and by his kindness I have been able to study this addition to the spider fauna of that region.
Mr. Blackwall described the following species  1.
Loxosceles rufescens Luc.
2.
Epeira gracilipes Blackw.
3.
Xysticus pallidus Blackw.
4.
Salticus diversus Blackw.
5.
Heteropoda venatoria Lin.
6.
Filistata depressa Koch.
The collection of Prof. Heilprin contains the following species  1 .
Uloborus Zosis Walk.
2.
Xephila clavipes Koch.
3.
Epeira caudata Hentz.
4.
Epeira labyrinthea Hentz.
5.
Theridium tepidariorum Koch.
6.
Argyrodes nephilce Taez.
7.
Pholcus tipuloides Koch.
8.
Dysdera crocata Koch.
9.
Menemerus Paykidlii Aud.
10.
Menemerus melanognathus Luc.
11.
Heteropoda venatoria Lin.
12.
Lycosa atlantica now spec.
Loxosceles rufescens Luc has been found in the West Indies Central America and Florida.
Heteropoda venatoria Lin. seems to occur under a certain latitude everywhere around the globe.
 Filistuta depressa synonymous according to Simon with F'distata capitata Hentz is quite common in the southern part of the United States.
Uloborus Zosis Walk. is recorded from the West India Islands Central and South America and occurs also sometimes in Southern Florida.
Nephila clavipes Koch found in Brazil Central America and Florida Texas Mississippi.
Eperia caudata Hentz inhabits the United States from Massachusetts to Georgia.
Epeira labyrinthea Hentz is also common in the United States and has been collected in the West Indies Central and South America as far south as the Straits of Magellan and in Lower and Upper California.
Theridium tepidariorum Koch is common to Europe and America.
Argyrodes nephilce reported from Peru Cayenne and the southern states of the United States.
Pholcus tipuloides Koch has been described by this author in his work  Die Arachniden Australiens page 281 from specimens collected at the Samoa Islands.
Dysdera crocata Koch is recorded from Greece France and Germany and is also common in the United States.
Menemerus Paykullii Aud. and Menevxerus melanognathus Luc have been found nearly everywhere on the globe.
From this material it is difficult to infer the true character of the fauna of these Islands.
The frequent arrival of vessels from many foreign ports the drift of the Gulf Stream and other causes have introduced into this region a number of species originally foreign to that locality but which in time not only have acclimatized themselves but have in a more or less marked degree driven away and extinguished the indigenous spider fauna.
This fact has been noticed in all localities open to the importation of a foreign element.
These species are then called cosmopolitan and by far the greatest number of those brought to notice by Mr. Blackwall and Prof. Heilprin bear this character but drawing See an article by Rev.
H. C. McCook in Proceed of Academy uf Nat.
Sc.
Philad. 1878. a superficial conclusion from this material it seems that the spider fauna of the Bermudas is more American than anything else for out of the seventeen species now known only four are original so far to these Islands and nine are found also in the limits of the United States.
Lycosa atlantica nov. spec.
Cephalothorax dark olivaceous brown with a narrow longitudinal yellow band over the middle which begins at the posterior margin and runs over the whole length into the region of the first eye row.
Another equally colored but somewhat broader band runs at the sides above the lateral margin terminating at the sides of the pars cephalica.
Mandibles dark brown with long thick and black pubescence.
Maxillre and labium more reddish brown  sternum lighter olivaceous yellow with a lighter border hairy.
Palpi and legs uniformly light olivaceous yellow with black hairs and without rings or markings tarsal joints of the former infuscated.
Abdomen  dorsum dark olivaceous brown with a narrow whitish slightly spearshaped figure which is edged by a very narrow blackish line behind this a row of four rather indistinct white small round spots which reach the apex.
Venter light yellow middle region still lighter.
Cephalothorax as long as patella X tibia IV onethird longer than wide  back straight evenly sloping in back and front face nearly perpendicular.
Lower eye row longer than second.
Middle eyes of lower row about twice as large as the lateral eyes.
Distance between the large eyes of the second row smaller than their diameter  eyes of the third row as large as middle ones of the first row.
Mandibles as long as tibia III.
Cephalothorax long 6 mm.
.
broad 45 in the middle region  in front 22.
Abdomen long 6 mm.
Mandibles 27.
Femur I 4 Patella 2 Tibia 33 Metatarsus 28 II 38 2 3  27 III 34  18  28  3  IV 5  21 4  55 Explanation of Plate IV.
Fig.
1.
Uhborus Zosh Walk.
Female.
l.a Abdomen from the side.
l.b.
Epigynum.
I.e.
Male palpus.
Fig.
2.
Menemerus Paykullii And.
Tarsus 22 Total   143  o U 135  15 a 125  24 ft 19 2.a.
Male palpus.
2.1.
Epigynum.
Fig.
3.
Menemerus melanognathus Luc.
3. a.
Male palpus from above.
3.b.
Male palpus from below.
Fig.
4.
Lycosa atlantica nov. spec Epigynum.
Fig.
5.
Pholus tipuloides Koch.
5. a. frons.
5.b.
Epigynum and lungs.
