CATALOGUE OF THE ASTEROIDEA AND OPHIUROIDEA IN THE BY J. E. IVES.
The following catalogue will be found to contain a number of localities that are new for various species.
Two new forms of Starfishes and two new forms of Ophiurans from the collection have recently been described in the Proceedings of the Academy.
A large proportion of the Pacific forms are contained in a collection given to the Academy by Mr. W. N. Lockington.
Many of his specimens unfortunately have no locality indicated.
The majority of them however were collected on the west coast of North and Central America but there are also forms from Alaska Japan New Zealand and the Pacific Islands.
ASTEROIDEA.
ASTERIIDJE.
Asterias qualis Stiinpson.
5 San Francisco Cal. 4 Seal Rock San Francisco Cal.
and 50 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Asterias arenicola Stimpson.
4 Atlantic City F. M. Beamer 5 dried and 50 alcoholic H. A. Pilsbry  1 U. C. Smith  1 Fort Macon N. C Dr. H. C. Yarrow  1 alcoholic Gloucester Mass.
and 1 Vineyard Sound Mass. U. S. Fish Commission  1 Massachusetts Bay Museum of Comparative Zoology  1 Point Judith R. I. Dr. Jos.
Leidy.
Asterias atlantica Verrill.
13 alcoholic Bermuda Heilprin coll.
July 1888.
Asterias camtschatica Brandt .
1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Asterias capitata Stimpson.
3 San Diego Cal Joseph Jeanes  1 Santa Barbara Cal. and 1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Asterias Leptasterias compta Verrill.
6 Noank Conn. Dr. Jos.
Leidy  2 alcoholic off Watch Hill R. I.
22 fath.
U. S. Fish Commission.
Asterias epichlora Brandt .
1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Asterias fabricii Agassiz.
3 Greenland Museum of Comparative Zoology  1 Newport R. I. S. Powel.
Asterias forbesii Verrill.
15 alcoholic Holmes' Holl Mass. Dr. J. H. Slack 3 Newport R. I. S. Powel 5 alcoholic Vineyard Sound Mass. U. S. Fish Commission  8 specimens undetermined 4 alcoholic.
Asterias gigantea Stimpson.
4 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Asterias glacialis Linck.
1  British E. Wilson.
Asterias lurida Philippi .
3 San Diego Cal. Joseph Jeanes H. Hemphill  3 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Asterias ochracea Brandt.
1 alcoholic Oregon Smithsonian Inst.
 1 San Francisco Cal. Museum of Comparative Zoology  2 T. G. Watson  2 Santa Cruz Cal. John Ford  6 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Asterias rubens L. 2 Belfast Bay Wm.
Thompson  25 England Dr. T. B. Wilson.
Asterias sertulifera Xantus '.
1 locality undetermined.
Asterias vulgaris Stimpson.
30 alcoholic Gay Head Martha's Vineyard Mass. Heilprin coll.
1886  3 Grand Menan and 2 Massachusetts Museum of Comparative Zoology 1 alcoholic Halifax N. S. U. S. Fish Commission  8 Maine Dr. J. H. Slack  1 alcoholic Mt.
Desert Me. Dr. H. C. Chapman  2 Long Branch N. J. Dr. J. L. LeConte.
Asterias species undetermined.
2 Guaymas J. W. Wilson U. S. N.  1 New Zealand Messrs. Warwick and Argent  2 Sandwich Islands J. K. Townsend  2 dissimilar forms localities undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Heliaster helianthus Lam.
1 Chili W. W. Drinker.
Heliaster microbrachia Xantus.
1 Chili W. W. Drinker 1 Magdalena Bay Low.
OaL W. N. Lockington.
Fischer coll.
 Heliaster multiradiata Gray  H. Kubinijii Xantus.
l
Lower California and 1 young locality undetermined W. N.. Lockington  1 alcoholic Machuoha Nicaragua Dr. Bransford  2 dried and 3 alcoholic Pacific Coast of Mexico Dr. W. H. Jones  2 locality undetermined.
BRISINGIDJE.
Coronaster bispinosus Ives.
A single specimen.
Type Proc Acad.
1888 p. 422.
Locality undetermined.
ECHINASTERIDJE.
Echinaster echinophorus Lam.
6 New Providence Bahamas Dr. H. C. Wood.
Echinaster fallax M. and T.
.
1 Pacific Islands W. N. Lockington.
Echinaster sentus Say.
2 Key West Florida Lieut.
Gandtt Proc.
Acad.
1825. p. 143.
Echinaster spinulosus.
Verrill.
4 alcoholic Anclote Bay r Florida and 2 alcoholic 12 ft. Sarasota Bay Florida.
Heilprin coll.
1886.
Ehinaster tenuispina Verrill.
2 alcoholic Bay of Pichilincpie W. Coast of America Dr. W. H. Jones  1 Monterey Cal. and 12 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Cribrella leviuscula Stimpson.
6 alcoholic Marmot Island Northwest Coast of America Dr. W. H. Jones 1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Cribrella sanguinolenta Mulier.
2 Belfast Bay Wm.
Thompson  2  British E. Wilson  2 Manchester Mass. S. Tufts Jr.  3 alcoholic Massachusetts Bay U.S.
Fish Commission 12 Maine and 7 alcoholic Nahant Mass. Dr. J. H. Slack  3 Noank Conn. Dr. Jos.
Leidy  locality undetermined.
Mithrodia clavigera Lam.
1 alcoholic Oahu Sandwich Islands Dr. W. H. Jones.
Solaster decemradiata Brandt.
1 California W. N. Lockington.
Solaster endeca Gniel.
1 dried and 5 alcoholic Mt.
Desert Me. Dr. H. C. Chapman.
Solaster papposa L. 1 alcoholic Mediterranean Dr. Howel  3 alcoholic Mt.
Desert Me. Dr. H. C. Chapman.
A anthaster ellisii Gray.
1 Gulf of California W. N. Lockington Fisher coll..
LINCKIIDJE.
Linckia guildingii Gray.
1 Bermuda Mr. Janney  1 San Diego Cal. Jos.
Jeanes H. Hemphill  5 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington  1 locality undetermined.
The specimens received from Mr. Lockington resemble the single specimen presented by Mr. Joseph Jeanes from San Diego Cal.
They are small the largest not exceeding 8 mm.
in diameter but otherwise thoroughly agree with descriptions of Linkia Guildingii.
This species has not been recorded before from the West Coast of North America.
Linckia l.evkata Lam.
 L. Pacifica Gray.
3 Navigator's Isles Dr. Eckstein  1 Navigator's Isles and 3 Arica Peru Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
Linckia nodosa Perrier.
2 locality undetermined.
Linckia unifascialis Gray.
1 Central America Dr. LeConte 2 Honduras Capt.
J. M. Dow  1 Lower California Wm.
M. Gabb  2 Magdalena Bay Low.
Cal W. N. Lockington  2 Pacific Coast of Mexico Dr. W. H. Braden  2 alcoholic Panama McNeil Expedition  7 alcoholic Pichilinque Bay West Coast of America Dr. W. H. Jones  3 localities undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Linckia species undetermined.
1 Christmas Island W. N. Lockington.
This specimen does not appear to be Linckia laevigata Lam.
L Pacifica Gray the only species of Linckia recorded from Christmas Island by Prof. F. Jeffrey Bell.
Linckia species undetermined.
1 Lower California W. M. Gabb.
Ophidiaster gracilis Gray.
1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Ophidiaster pusillus M. and T. 5 alcoholic Oahu Sandwich Islands Dr. W. H. Jones.
Ophidiaster pyramidatus Gray.
1 Honduras Capt.
J. M. Dow  1 La Paz Low.
Cal. and 1 Magdalena Bay Low.
Cal. W. N. Lockington  6 alcoholic Panama Bay McNeil Expedition  1 alcoholic Pichilinque Bay West Coast of America Dr. W. H. Jones.
Ophidiaster species undetermined.
1 West Coast of Honduras Capt.
J. M. Dow 3 locality undetermined.
GONIASTERIDJE.
Pentagonaster dilatatus Perrier.
1 New Zealand Messrs. Warwick and Argent.
Pentagonaster Stellaster equestris Retzius.
1 New Zealand Messrs. Warwick and Argent.
Pentagonaster granularis O. F. Miiller.
Alcoholic Marmot Island Alaska Dr. W. H. Jones 1 Monterey Cal. W. N. Lockington W. G. W. Harford.
Pentagonaster pulchellus Gray.
1 New Zealand Messrs. Warwick and Argent.
Pentagonaster semilunatus Linck.
1 New Zealand Messrs. Warwick and Argent Pentagonaster species undetermined.
1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Axthenea acuta Perrier .
2 alcoholic locality undetermined.
Axthenea tuberculosa Gray .
1 New Zealand Messrs. Warwick and Argent.
Oreaster Nidorellia armata Gray.
1 Guaymas J. W. Wilson  1 La Paz Low.
Cal. W. N. Lockington W. J. Fisher coll.
 1 Panama Bay Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger  1 alcoholic Panama McNeil Expedition  1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Oreaster dorsatus L. 1 New Zealand Messrs. Warwick and Argent  1 Senegal Dr. Isaac Lea.
Oreaster Amphiaster insignis Verrill.
1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Oreaster lutkeni Bell.
1 locality undetermined.
Oreaster occidentals Verrill.
1 Honduras Capt.
J. M. Dow  1 Lower California W. N. Lockington Fisher coll.
 1 dried and 1 alcoholic Pacific Coast of Mexico Dr. W. H. Jones.
Oreaster reticulatus L. 1 Maracaibo C. D. Meigs  1 Nassau New Providence Chas.
P. Perot  1 St. Bartholomew West Indies Dr. Gaes 2 West Indies E. Wilson 1 locality undetermined J. C. Fisher  4 specimens locality undetermined.
Culcita discoidea Schmidt.
1 Zanzibar Museum of Comparative Zoology.
ASTERINIDJE.
Asterina folium Liitken.
2 alcoholic locality undetermined.
Asterina gibbosa Penn.
2 Belfast Bay W. Thompson  1 Mediterranean Dr. S. B. Howel  1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Asterina granulosa Perrier.
1 alcoholic Oahu Sandwich Islands Dr. W. H. Jones.
Asterina miniata Brandt.
2 Monterey Cal. W. M. Gabb  2 San Diego Cal. Jos.
Jeanes  2 locality undetermined W. N. Lockin gton.
Asterina obtusa Gray.
1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Asterina regularis Verrill.
3 New Zealand Messrs. Warwick and Argent.
Asterina species undetermined.
1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Palmipes membranaceus Linck.
1  Europe.
Asteropsis imbricata Grube.
1 Gulf of Georgia Northwest Coast of America Museum of Comparative Zoology 1 Monterey Cal. W. N. Lockington.
ASTROPECTINID.
Astropecten articulatus Say.
1 alcoholic 912 ft. off Manatee Tampa Bay Fla. Heilprin coll.
1886  1 South Carolina F. S. Holmes  1 dried and 4 alcoholic localities undetermined.
Astropecten aurantiaca Lam.
2 Mediterranean Dr. T. B. Wilson.
Astropecten oerstedii Lutken.
2 San Diego Cal. Jos.
Jeanes H. Hemphill  4 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Astropecten subinermis M. and T. 1 alcoholic Mediterranean Dr. Howel  2 locality undetermined.
Astropecten species undetermined.
6 Gulf of Mexico C. S. Westcott  1 alcoholic Oahu Sandwich Islands Dr. W. H. Jones 6 Sandwich Islands 1 West Coast of Africa Dr. Henderson U. S. N.  8 Yokohama Japan W. N. Lockington.
Luidia clathrata Say.
4 Charleston S. C.  1 Cuba W. M. Gabb  3 alcoholic Stumps' Pass West Coast of Florida Heilprin coll.
1886  2 locality undetermined.
Luidia tessellata Lutken .
3 Lower California W. N. Lockington  2 Gulf of California W. N. Lockington.
These two last specimens are very large measuring from 200 to 225 mm.
from the center of the disk to the tips of the rays.
Ctenodiscus crispatus Retzius.
11 alcoholic 4050 fath.
and 5 dried Massachusetts Bay U. S. Fish Commission  1 Salem Mass. W. N. Lockington J. S. Kingsley  1 locality undetermined S. B. Howel.
Archaster typicus M. and T. 1 California 4 Lower California and 1 Mulege Bay Low.
Cal.
Fisher coll.
 W. N. Lockington  1 Sandwich Islands W. H. Pease.
The specimen from the Sandwich Islands differs from the others by its narrower arms and greater number of arm plates having about 40 on each side of an arm whereas the others have only about 35.
It differs also in color being of a very light cream color instead of light or dark umber.
This however may be due to the fading of the original tint.
This species has not before been recorded either from the Pacific Coast of North America or from the Sandwich Islands.
PTERASTERID.ffi.
Pteraster tessellatus Ives.
A single type specimen in alcohol.
Proc.
Acad 1888 p. 421.
Kodiak Alaska.
Dr. W. H. Jones.
OPHIUROIDEA.
OPHIURIDJE.
Ophiura appressa Say.
1 Callao Peru Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger  3 Florida  14 alcoholic locality undetermined.
Ophiura brevispina Say.
1 Rhode Island A. D. Bache.
Ophiura cinerea M. and T. 5 Aspinwall W. M. Gabb  16 alcoholic locality undetermined.
Ophiura panamensis Liitk.
1 California W. M. Gabb  2 alcoholic Panama 
 KcXeil Expedition  1 San Bartolome Bay Low.
Cal. W. N. Lockington  3 alcoholic San Diego Cal. Jos.
Jeanes 1 alcoholic West Coast of Mexico Dr. W. H. Jones.
Ophiura teres Lyman.
1 Cape Tortola Low.
Cal. and 1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington  1 alcoholic Nicaragua Dr. Bransford  3 dried and 7 alcoholic West Coast of Mexico Dr. W. H. Jones.
Ophiolepis elegans Liitken.
1 alcoholic Sarasota Bay Fla. 12 feet Heilprin coll.
1886.
Ophioplocus esmarki Lyman.
3 alcoholic San Diego Cal. Jos.
Jeanes  1 alcoholic West Coast of America George Davidson  6 locality unknown W. N. Lockington.
The number of arm spines to each side armplate in this species appears to be somewhat variable.
In the specimen from the West Coast presented by Mr. Geo.
Davidson there are only two such spines and in one of the specimens received from Mr. Lockington some of the plates have two and some three arm spines.
Ophioplocus imbkicatus M. and T. 1 Bay of Islands NewZealand W. N. Lockington.
Ophioncus granulosus Ives.
Type specimen Proc.
Acad.
1889 p. 143 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Ophioglypha albida Forbes.
3 Belfast Bay W. Thompson.
Ophioglypha ciliata Retzius.
3 Belfast Bay W. Thompson  27 British E. Wilson.
Ophioglypha lockingtoni Ives.
2 type specimens Proc.
Acad.
1889 p. 143 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Ophioglypha lutkeni Lyman.
4 dried and 2 alcoholic locality undetermined V.
X. Lockington.
Ophioglypha nodosa Liitken.
1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Ophioglypha robusta Lyman.
3 Bay of Fundy U. S. Fish Commission.
Ophioglypha sarsi Lyman.
3 dried and 7 alcoholic 20125 fath.
U. S. Fish Commission.
Ophiopholis aculeata Retzius.
I Belfast Bay V.
Thompson  1 British  9 dried and 6 alcoholic Maine and 2 alcoholic Nahant Dr. J. H. Slack  12 alcoholic Massachusetts Bay and Gulf of Maine 10100 fath.
U. S. Fish Commission  15 alcoholic Mt.
Desert Me. Dr. H. C. Chapman  6 locality undetermined.
Ophiopholis caryi Lyman.
1 alcoholic W. N. Lockington.
Ophiopholis japonic a Lyman.
1 alcoholic Dr. S. B. Howe.
This specimen agrees closely with Mr. Lyman's description of 0.
Japonica.
The arm spines however are slightly longer and also more slender and there are on the upper surface of the disk a few scattered spines of about the size of the smallest arm spines.
Ophiopholis kennerlyi Lyman.
4 alcoholic AVest Coast of Mexico and 11 alcoholic Alaska and California Dr. W. H. Jones.
Ophiactis mulleri Liitken.
2 alcoholic Bermuda Heilprin coll.
July 1888.
These specimens which were identified as Ophiactis Krebsii in Professor Heilprin's  Contributions to the Natural History of the Bermuda Islands Proc.
Acad.
1888 p. 316 on further examination I am inclined to regard as 0.
Miilleri.
Qphiactis savignyi  0. virescens Liitk.
3 alcoholic one of them parasitic in sponge La Paz Low.
Cal. W. N. Lockington 18 alcoholic Oahn Sandwich Islands Dr. W. H. Jones.
Amphiura geminata Lyman.
2 alcoholic La Paz Low.
Cal. W. N. Lockington Fisher.
Amphiura squamata Chiaje.
4 Belfast Bay W. Thompson  2 England E. Wilson.
Ophiocnida brachiata Montagu.
1 England Dr. T. B. Wilson.
Hemipholis elongata Say.
1 Florida.
Ophionereis reticulata Liitk.
20 alcoholic Bermuda Heilprin coll.
July 1888  1 Florida T. R. Peale.
Ophiostigma isacanthum Say.
2 alcoholic Harrington Sound Bermuda Heilprin coll.
July 1888.
Ophiocoma .ethiops Liitk.
2 alcoholic Nicaragua Dr. Bransford  Panama 8 alcoholic McNeil Expedition and 1 dried Capt.
J. M. Dow 1 AVest Coast of Honduras Capt.
J. M. Dow  7 alcoholic West Coast of Mexico Dr. W. H. Jones.
Ophiocoma alexandri Lyman.
8 alcoholic Pichilinque Ba3 r  Dr. W. H. Jones.
Ophiocoma crassispina Say.
2 Aspinwall Bay W. M. Gabb  1 alcoholic New Providence Bahamas Dr. H. C. Wood  1 alcoholic North Rock Bermuda Heilprin coll.
July 1888  1 alcoholic locality undetermined.
Ophiocoma echinata Lam.
Lyman.
3 East Coast of Florida  1 Gulf of Mexico C. S. AVestcott  4 alcoholic Panama McNeil Expedition  21 alcoholic locality undetermined.
Ophiocoma erinaceus M. and T. 4 alcoholic locality undetermined.
Ophiocoma nigra M. and T. 1 Belfast Bay W. Thompson  1  British E. Wilson.
Ophiocoma pica M. and T. 1 alcoholic locality undetermined.
Ophiocoma pumila Liitken.
1 alcoholic Bermuda Heilprin coll.
July 1888  1 alcoholic locality undetermined W. M. Gabb.
Ophiocoma riisei Liitk.
1 Aspinwall Reef W. M. Gabb 1 alcoholic New Providence Bahamas Dr. H. C. AVood  7 alcoholic locality undetermined.
13 Ophiocoma scolopexdrina Lam.
4 Enderbury Island Phoenix Group Dr. H. C. Eckstein.
Ophiopteris antipodum E. A. Smith.
1 New Zealand Messrs. Warwick and Argent  2 locality undetermined W. N. Lockin gton.
Ophiothrix angulata Say.
8 Florida.
Ophiothrix lixeata Lyman.
7 Key West Fla. S. Ashmead.
Ophiothrix oerstedii Liitk.
2 Key West Fla. S. Ashmead  6 alcoholic New Providence Bahamas Dr. H. C. Wood  50 alcoholic locality undetermined.
Ophiothrix pentaphyllum Pennant.
3 Belfast Bay W. Thompson  15  British Dr. Wilson.
Ophiothkix RUDis Lyman.
2 alcoholic West Coast of America Geo Davidson  3 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
The specimens of this species received from Mr. Lockington agree with Mr. Lyman's description but the dorsal surface of the arms and disk is of a light bluishgray and the upper arm plates are marked each by a central transverse darker band with a lighter band on either side of it.
The specimens received from Mr. Geo.
Davidson answer to Mr. Lyman's description as to color but have a light band on the outer edge of each upper arm plate.
This light band is bordered on the inside by a faint line of darker.
Ophiothrix spiculata Le Conte.
2 alcoholic Magdalena Bay Low.
Gal. W. N. Lockington  4 alcoholic San Diego Gal. Jos.
Jeanes 6 dried West Coast of Low.
Cal. and Gulf of California and 2 alcoholic locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
I have found it so difficult to determine whether the above forms belong to 0. spiculata Le Conte or 0. dumosa Lyman that I think it probable that these two species represent varieties of one form.
The color appears to be very variable.
Ophiothrix suensoxii Liitk.
1 alcoholic Nassau New Providence Dr. H. C. Wood.
Ophiomyxa flaccida Liitk.
1 alcoholic New Providence Bahamas Dr. II.
G. Wood  1 alcoholic Bailey's Bay Bermuda Heilprin July 1888 7 alcoholic locality undetermined.
ASTROPHYTID.
Astrophytox costatum Seba.
1 South Carolina F. S. Holmes  1 Cuba J. G. Howard  young specimen on Pterogorgia West Indies I. Lea  1 alcoholic Santa Cruz West Indies T. Davidson Jr.  1 alcoholic West Indies R. Swift.
Astkoi'hyton pANAMENsis Verrill.
5 alcoholic locality undetermined McNeil Expedition.
GORGONOCEPHALTJS AGASSiziI Stimpson.
1 dried and 2 alcoholic off Cape Cod 2535 fath.
 U. S. Fish Commission  3 Maine Dr. J. H. Slack  4 alcoholic Mt.
Desert Me. Dr. H. C. Chapman 1 alcoholic locality undetermined Smithsonian Institution.
G r  x cephalus arborescens Agassiz.
1 Palermo Italy John Ford.
 Jougonocephalus caryi Lyman.
1 Monterey Cal. and 1 locality undetermined W. N. Lockington.
Gorgoxi  ki'iialus STiMPSONi Verrill.
1 alcoholic Arctic Ocean.
Smithsonian Institute North Pacific Expedition  1 alcoholic Marmot Island Alaska Dr. W. H. Jones  1 locality undetermined W. X. Lockington.
Astroschema l.eve Lyman .
1 locality undetermined.
Astroschema oligactes Pallas.
1 locality undetermined.
July 2.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Nine persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication   Nomenclature and CheckList of North American Land Mollusks.
By H. A. Pilsbry.
The Origin and Meaning of Sex.
By John A. Ryder.
A review of the American Species of Sturgeons Accipenseridae.
By Philip H. Kirsch and Morton W. Fordice.
July 9.
Rev.
H. C. McCook D. D. VicePresident in the chair.
Twenty persons present.
Note on the true Systematic Position of the Bay Spider.
 Dr. Henry C. McCook remarked that he had been recently led to reinvestigate the character of the web of the Ray spider and its proper systematic place.
When the snare of this aranead was first discovered by him in 1881 and described in the Proceedings of this Academy 1 he considered the spider new to science and gave it the name of Epeira radiosa in a paper containing a careful and detailed description of its spinningwork and habits.
He then indicated that it would probably be assigned to a new genus and subsequently in a verbal communication to this Academy proposed for it the name of Aetis radiosa.
Emerton in his monograph of the New England Epeirada created for it the genus Microepeira
Subsequent investigation had led Dr. McCook to believe that the spider belongs to Cambridge's genus Theridiosoma
and probably is identical with the European species Theridiosoma gemmosum of Dr. L. Koch.
4 This genus has a marked resemblance to Epeira as Cambridge himself allows and certainly on the ground of structure appears to be at least equally related to the Epeiroids.
1 Proc.
Acad.
Natural Sciences.
Phila. 1881 pp.
16375.
2 New England Spider of the Family Epeiradse.
Transactions Connecticut Academy Volume VI. 1884 p. 320.
3 Rev.
O. PickardCambridge Annals and Magazine of Natural History 1879 p. 193.
4 Theridium gemmosum  Verzeichniss der bei Nurnberg beob.
Arten.
p. 69.
Count Keyserling however in his extended and admirable monograph 1 retains the species among the Retitelarise where it had previously been placed.
But the spinningwork of the spider which appears to have been unknown to the above named arachnologists shows conclusively that it must be placed with the Orbitelariae.
To that position therefore Dr. McCook assigned it and it became necessary to transfer the genus Theridiosoma from the Retitelaria
to the Orbitelariae and to make for it a new family for which he proposed the name Actince.
In the paper above alluded to in which the habits and spinningwork of this spider were originally described the statement was made that the spiral lines of its web were covered with viscid beads.
Upon this point turned very largely the decision as to the true systematic place of the spider for it has never yet been observed that any other spiders than those belonging to the Orbitelariae make geometric webs that are habitually covered with viscid beads as the ordinary armature for capturing prey.
In correspondence with arachnologists upon the subject the speaker was not able to say that he had made such tests of this point as to enable him to speak with absolute assurance.
He had made a somewhat careful investigation with a good hand lens wnich seemed to indicate with reasonable certainty the presence of viscid spirals.
But as the webs are habitually located within cavities and shaded positions where they are extremely difficult to study there remained the possibility that he might have been mistaken.
This appeared to be the more likely because when such webs as those of the Triangle spider Hyptioies cavatus are examined the spiral lines often appear to be beaded although it is well known that they have no viscid armature.
The lack of beads is supplied by a thin floceulent thread which is teased or hackled by a special instrument known as the calamistrum.
Yet when one looks at the spiral thread of Hyptiotes or of Uoborns which has the same peculiarity he finds that it presents to a careless glance the appearance of being beaded.
More closely examined however these seeming beads prove to be nothing but globular grains of pollen or particles of dust which have been drifted upon and entangled with the flocculent lines.
The speaker had himself more than once been deceived by the strong resemblance of these drifted minutiae and been led to look again with the wonder whether after all there might not be beads upon these webs which were so well known to be unbeaded 
When therefore the question was raised and became of such special importance he resolved to make a careful and thorough reexamination and test of this point.
No opportunity occurred to do this successfully until July 8th 18891 near Wallingford Delaware County Pennsylvania.
The Ray spider was found in sufficient abundance for desired study located along the banks of a little run or stream of spring water.
Its posi1 Die Spinnen Amerikas.
Theridiidae I Hiilfte von Graf.
E. Keyserling Zweiter Band p. 218. tion was there precisely like that in which it has always been discovered in cool shaded retreats overhanging or close to running water.
He had provided himself with all the apparatus necessary to make a satisfactory microscopic examination of the webs.
Many of his previous investigations were repeated and confirmed.
The viscid globules were found to be visible along the spiral lines with a common hand lens.
Not satisfied with this portions of the web were removed and microscopically examined and thus displayed beyond doubt the presence of the viscid beads.
The behavior of the web was precisely like similar portions of the orb of Epeira.
The beads Avould melt upon the glass leaving the thread visible as a straight line.
Within the cups or frames upon which the lines were taken for examination the beads being undisturbed were readily examined and their character easily determined.
Drawings were made of these beads and the number counted on single strings amounting in one case to sixtyfour.
A number of insects entangled upon several snares were also observed and drawings made.
They showed in every instance the same method of entanglement as that so frequently observed upon the web of Epeira.
The feet wings and antennae of a fly were caught in the viscid lines from which at certain parts the gummy material had been absorbed into the pubescence of the insect's limbs and at other parts remained in the globular form of beads.
Dr. McCook not only satisfied himself beyond question of this fact but submitted the various tests independently to his private secretary Mr. Edwin S. Gault who had been requested to carefully note and accurately report precisely what he saw.
His report confirmed in every particular as to the beaded nature of the spirals that which is here submitted.
Thus the one point which remained at least open to question concerning the spinning habit of this interesting spider has been placed beyond doubt.
Thus also the position of Theridiosoma radiomm 1 is placed beyond doubt among the Orbweavers.
The special interest of this decision rests upon the fact that the spinningwork of the Ray spider forms a remarkable connecting link between that of the Triangle spider Hyptiotes and the ordinary geometric Orbweaver.
The Triangle spider spins a snare composed of four converging lines and uniting finally in a common supporting thread known as the trapline.
They are joined by cross lines after the manner of the spiral concentrics of an orbicular web but without any viscid armature as has been stated.
This web is used for the capture of insects by a method of trapping or springing the snare which has been fully described by various observers particularly by Professor Burt Wilder.
The awaiti 1 Dr. McCook preferred for the present thus to characterize the spider citing until its actual identity with Dr. Koch's species shall be determined.
He had no species of the European Theridiosoma gemmosum with which to compare his own specimens and had sent specimens to Europe for such comparison.
spider taks its position upon the handle or trapline of its little rayformed web holding between its fore feet and the third pair of feet a coil of slack line.
When an insect strikes its snare it quickly unlooses its fore feet and the web shoots forward the distance of the coil of slack line.
It is then rapidly gathered up again and successively snapped in this wise until the insect is thoroughly entangled.
Now this same method of springing its net and trapping its prey is habitual with Therldiosoma radiosum.
Its web may be said to be composed of a series of rays somewhat resembling the orb sector of the Triangle spicier.
The handles or traplines of these rays are however all centered upon a common thread or trapline which the little weaver holds within her feet.
She has the power of springing or snapping off all these combined concentrics at once  or if she so choose to spring one or more of them at a time.
She thus in this remarkable and essential particular resembles the Triangle spider in her habit.
Had the spiral lines of her web proved to be of the same character as those of the Triangle spicier this peculiarity of combining the rays upon a central point might not have seemed so remarkable  but when it is found that the spiral lines are covered with beads entirely after the manner of true Orbweaving spiders the combination becomes very striking and remarkable indeed.
Many Orbweavers do use a trapline in connection with their webs.
This is almost invariably the custom with those which make an orb having in the upper part an open segment as is the case with Epeira triaranea Epeira thaddeus and generally with the species of the genus Z'dla.
But this trapline while it is attached to the center of the orb and assists to hold the various converging lines taut has simply these two uses  first it is used as a telegraphic line along which pass the vibrations of the entangled insect and which are thus communicated to the owner of the snare who occupies a position in a little den just above and beyond her domain.
Second the trapline serves as a gangway along which ihe spider runs first to the center of her orb and then to the point where her prey happens to be entangled.
None of these Orbweavers however make any such use of their traplines as that which has been described as habitual to the Triangle and Ray spiders.
Perhaps one may not Jie able to suggest a method by which these variations have been originated but at all events it must be conceded that the fact which is in this communication placed beyond question as to the viscid character of the spiral lines of the Ray spider's snare certainly reveals a connecting link between two forms of spinningwork namely that of the Triangle spider and that of the typical geometric Orbweaver which had heretofore been supposed to stand at the opposite extremes of the spinningwork of a great family without any known connection between the two.
184 iNN'.t.
Chloanthite Ndcolite De Sauesite Annabergite Tephrowillemite Fluorite and Aquatite from Franklin N. J.
 Professor George A. Koenig stated that on a recent visit to Franklin he obtained from Major de Saules the manager of the Trotter mine material of a recent find of nickel ore in which he identified the above species of which two are new and the others have not been observed heretofore at this locality.
At a depth of 340 feet the shaft passed through a stratum of yellow garnet.
Under this a considerable nest of sphalerite and fluorite was met with and with these the bunch of nickel ore was associated probably 3J pounds.
The first and only observation that nickel and cobalt are found at Franklin dates from 1876 when the speaker described the product of alteration of Jeffersonite under the name of Anomalite Amer.
Inst of Mining Engineers 1876.
From this substance the reaction of manganese in borax and salt of phosphorus could not be obtained although it contains over '60 of this metal.
The cause of this lies in the presence of nickel and cobalt about 3 which together give a green color to the glass and this being complementary to the red of the manganese extinction results.
The present find of nickel minerals is then not unexpected but very interesting.
1.
Chloanthite.
 Forms the main bulk.
It is chiefly massive in thin layers having a very thin interposition of calcite.
The color of the massive portion is light steelgray.
On one specimen the mineral is bordered by eleavable calcite.
All along the border minute white crystals of metallic lustre are imbedded in the calcite.
Their habitus is generally prismatic.
Fortunately the speaker observed one crystal '.
inch length of edge which could be chiseled out from the matrix and was large enough to afford goniometric measurements.
The figure shows this crystal in linear enlargement of 1 18.
The crystal is broken off at the left and at the back.
On the right front a sjnall crystal appears.
The right front face O and all others of the same position show small protuberances and do not reflect the light completely.
However the reflections obtained were in the main satisfactory.
Edge e  70 24' Edge    70 35' theoretically 70 33' The face 6 is very narrow striated and it reflects a drawn image.
a b 55 54 44' b  c  54 30' 54 44' ac 109 30' 109 28' a  d  180 oo o oo From these measurements it follows that the crystal belongs to the isometric system  the combination being O oo O .
The faces g and li belong to a pentagonal dodecahedron whose symbol is .
' because g  b  24 30' uncertain owing to the strongly blurred condition of the weak reflection  20 oo requires 26 30'.
This form should occur however in symmetrical pah's of faces.
It is observed here only in single faces.
The upper apex is quite perfect and so is the front apex yet there is no indication in either case of a companion face.
A tetartohedral development must therefore be assumed in this instance.
Specific gravity  6.8334 at 24 C. B.
B.
In closed tube it yields a sublimate of metallic arsenic.
On charcoal it does not fuse until a large quantity of arsenic has been volatilized.
Heated with a borax head in the 0.
H. on charcoal a blue glass is obtained for some time then a brown glass.
Cobalt and Nickel.
The analvsis gave  09421  0481 J 09902 03185 01087 00413  04685 Arsenic  7066 Sulphur  154 Nickel  1863 Cobalt  637 Iron  231 Zinc  trace CaCO 3 089 10040 The atomic ratio therefore  As S  Ni Co Fe  2111 It is further notable that Fe  Co  Ni  1  3  9 very nearly.
2.
Xicolite.
 This species has been observed only in a few small grains in connection with the following species.
It is recognized by the peculiar color.
3.
De Saulesite a zinciferous variety of Garnierite.
 Tins species occurs as a crust and as the filling of the cavities in a deeply purple fluorite.
It is associated with Chloanthite in such a manner that the most probable inference to be drawn is that the arsenide is not the original but was crystallized either at the same time or later than the silicate.
Chloanthite is disseminated in very minute prismatic crystals all through the green silicate.
This latter is built up loosely in gratelike forms assuming the texture of certain sponges.
The linear intersecting cylindroid rods are covered with roughly polyhedral excrescences which seem to be crystalloid bodies.
Besides this form which has been reported for the Algerian Garnierite the green mineral appears less frequently in massive compact bluishgreen bands bordered by Chloanthite.
It resembles in this form certain serpentines from which however its softness readily distinguishes it The color varies from yellowishgreen to bright 186 1889. apple and emeraldgreen.
The material fur the analysis was picked with the utmost care especially to exclude the minutest crystals of chloanthite.
The quantity analyzed was 02805 gram.
In closed tube it yields water and turns brown.
It is infusible even in the Bunsen blowpipe but the green color returns at this high temperature and the specimen looks as if it had not changed.
It gives with the fluxes only nickel reaction.
It is easily decomposed by hydrochloric acid a little less after ignition and separates flocculeut silica.
Owing to the scantiness of material the substance was first ignited then digested with concentr.
hydrochloric acid over night.
The silica was then fused with sodic carbonate when it was observed that it had lost 10 showing that 90 of the ignited silicate had been decomposed by the acid.
The analvsis gave  Si O 2  3162 NiO  3822 ZnO  400 FeO  203 CaO  070 MgO  042 As 2 5  477 H 2  1658 944 at 100 C. 9771  714 at 600 C. The arsenic oxide is undoubtedly contained as such in the mineral.
Let it be assumed then that it is admixed in the form of there will be  Coeffic  Annabergite SiO 2 MO TnO FeO CaO MgO H 2 As 2 5 NiO H 2 O 3102 3362 400 203 071 042 1358 477 460 300 05017 04508  00490 00290 00120 07500 V 05408 Annabergite.
H 2 075 15 For the silicate the ratio will be Ni Zn Fe O  Si O 2 05408  05017 108  1 This is the ratio exactly given by Groth for Garnierite.
Tabell.
Uebersicht 2 Aufl.
The question remains however is Garnierite an Orthoor a Metasilicate 
Groth takes the latter alternative writing the formula H 2 Ni Mg Si O 4 . 
aq.
To the speaker this view does not seem confirmed by the present results.
The water is expelled too readily over onehalf at 100 C. r and he would write the formula Ni Tu Fe Si s .
U aq.
as a metasilicate.
Experimenting with some Garnierite from Africa the speaker observed that the mineral behaves like the present one.
It turns brown and in a strong heat again green not black as Damour states  Zeitschr.
f. Crystallogr.
Mineralogie vol.
iii p.
636.
The speaker thinks it proper to distinguish this zinciferous Garnierite by a new name and proposes De Saulesite in honor of Major A.
B. de Sanies E. M. the present manager of the Trotter mine to whose kindness in tarnishing the material the author is much indebted and herewith expresses his thanks.
4.
Tephrowillemite an intermediate species.
The speaker received from Master Percy de Saules a broken crystal found at the same depth as the preceding minerals in the Trotter mine.
The crystal fragment shows two faces which intersect in an edge 15 inch long conforming to 120 measured with a hand goniometer.
The crystal is imbedded in well cleaving gray calcite.
Its substance is very homogeneous showing under the microscope but a few very small black grains most probably Franklinite.
The color is brownishgray.
Lustre resinous unctuous.
B.
B.
Is infusible  yields no water  furnishes on charcoal a zinc incrustation and with the fluxes a strong manganese reaction.
It gelatinizes completely with cold concentrated hydrochloric acid.
The mean of two analvses gives  SiO 2 2775' 04925 Zn O  6061 07502 Mn O  1004 01360 Fe 2 O 3  200   180 Fe O 00250  .8912 Ca O  trace 1 10040 Under the supposition that the iron is all ferrous the ratio obtains  Si O 2  Tn Mn Fe  04925  08912 1  185 1  2 The formula is therefore   Zn Mn Fe 2 Si O 4  5.
Fluorite.
 Whilst the species had been found in the mass of the white marble in the quarries southwest of the furnace it had not previously been noticed within the ore body.
The speaker observed it in very light pink octohedrons and in deeply purplish masses compact small granular and large granular cleavage pieces.
It is chiefly notable as the supporting substance of the De Saulesite.
It is largely associated with the beautiful yellow sphalerite.
6.
Apatite.
 The speaker noticed this species on a small specimen showing an intimate mixture of the purple fluorite with yellow garnet.
The apatite occurs in small prismatic crystals of bluishgreen color.
The combination is P oc.
P. 2 P 2.
The spores of the Myxomycetes.
 Mr. Harold Wingate referring to the work done by Dr. Rostafinski some years ago upon the spores of the Myxomycetes and also to the recent paper by Mr. Geo.
Massee on the Trichiaceae made a communication upon some of the results he had obtained from the study of these reproductive bodies.
The speaker observed that for many years the mycologist had been satisfied with the results obtained from the use of lenses from t to i inch focus in arriving at the morphology of the spores of the fungi but of late years in the study of the structural details of the Myxomycetes the results from the use of a good highpower immersion lens  T V to i 1  inch focus have been so astonishing that the careful investigation of this group is now impossible without such a lens.
The speaker for some years had spent considerable time in making accurate drawings of the spores of this group using a Zeiss waterimmersion lens equivalent to T V inch focus.
It was interesting to note that some of the drawings showed a tendency to fall into an artificial series based upon the thickenings of the epispore commencing with simple structure and by gradual steps ending with a rather complex one.
The drawings were exhibited and the following types might be selected as a series showing this progression  1 The series should begin with a spore absolutely without thickenings but with the exception of the spore of an undescribed species no spore has yet been found in the speaker's collection which would accurately fit this type from the hypercritical standpoint of the present.
2.
 Thickenings of the epispore in the shape of isolated faint warts Arcyria puniceiz Pers.
3.
 Thickenings in the shape of faint sparsely scattered warts Comatricha pulchella Bab.
4.
 Thickenings in the shape of faint warts somewhat thickly scattered over the surface Didymium squamulosum A.
 S.   Thickenings in the shape of faint warts densely scattered over the surface Trichia fragilis Sow.
6.
 Thickenings in the shape of warts arranged to form a pattern having a reticulate appearance Stemonitis fusca Roth.
7.
 Thickenings in the shape of warts arranged to form a reticulate pattern the warts confluent at their bases Stemonitis dictyospora Rki.
8.
 Thickenings in the shape of warts which very frequently coalesce to form a delicate finemeshed network over the greater portion of the epispore the remaining surface with warts and ridges  the outline of the warted portion very irregular Trichia seabra Rki.
9 Thickenings in the shape of a delicate finemeshed network covering the greater portion of the epispore.
A. The portion without the fine network having scattered warts and ridges and with an irregular outline Tubulina ci 1 hublea Bull. Lycogala epidendrum Buxb. Dermodium conicum Pers.
B.
 The portion without the fine network having a very widemeshed network and with an irregular outline Siphoptychium Casparyi Rki. Tubulina dipihtta B.
.
Rav.
10.
 Thickenings in the shape of a delicate finemeshed network covering about twothirds of the surface the remaining portion with scattered warts and ridges  the warted portion having the sharp regular outline of a wide spindle the ends of the spindle lying at the poles of the sphere JEnteridium Rozeanum Rki.
11.
 Thickenings in the shape of a delicate finemeshed network covering about onehalf of the surface the remaining portion with scattered warts and ridges  the warted portion having a sharp regular circular outline Reticularia Lyeoperdon Bull.
It will be seen from this series how readily the rather complex sculpturing of numbers 9 10 and 1 1 might have had its origin from a simple warted type by the gradual coalescence of the warts in certain directions.
Note on Orthotrlcha.
 Mr. Harold Wingate also remarked that in the Journal of Mycology for November 1886 he had described a new genus of Myxomycetes under the name of Orthotrlcha.
In some of the journals which noticed the article the genus was mentioned as Orthotrichia and in Saccardo'sSyllogeFungorum vol.
vii part i this error was repeated.
It is inferred that it was done in error as no mention is made of any intention to correct the original name.
As the original name conflicted with that of a genus of mosses the speaker had concluded to adopt the orthography as given in Saccardo  Orthotrichia instead of Orthotricha.
July 16.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication    Notes on the food of birds.
By Frank C. Baker. 
A review of the European and American Uranoscopidae or StarGazers.
By Philip H. Kirsch.
July 23.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Seven persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication    Remarks on the Roundtailed Muskrat Neofiber Alleni True.
By Frank C. Baker. 
Notes on the Anatomy of Pholas Barnea Costata and Zirphsea Crispata Lin.
By W. H. Dall. 
On the Anatomy of Aerope and Zingis.
By H. A. Pilsbrv.
July 30.
Mr. Thomas Meehan Vicepresident in the chair.
A paper entitled  Description of New Shells from the Island of Segon New Hebrides.
By Wm.
D. Hartman was presented for publication.
The death of Charlemagne Tower a member on the 24th inst. was announced.
On report of the Publication Committee the request of the author for the withdrawal of the following papers was granted    The Phylogeny of the SweatGlands.
By John A. Ryder. 
On the Origin and Meaning of Sex.
By John A. Ryder.
The following were ord Ted to be printed  
