PENNSYLVANIA AND NEW JERSEY SPIDERS OF THE FAMILY LYCOSIDAE.
BY WITMER STONE.
The Lvcosidae comprise the largest spiders of the northern United States.
They are all ground species and are found running among grass and dead leaves or hiding beneath stones and logs.
Some of the species dig tubelike holes in the ground.
These spiders spin no regular web though Dolomedes and Oeyale make a rough web on weeds or bushes for their young.
The eggs are encased in a tough silken bag which is carried about by the female.
When they have hatched the bag splits open around the middle apparently cut by the jaws of the female and the young swarm out and cling to her body.
In this way they are carried about for a time until able to shift for themselves.
In Pennsylvania the eggs of most of the species are deposited about the middle of August.
The male spiders are about the same size as the females and ia their markings differ but little from them being usually somewhat brighter.
The species of Lycosidfs are usually marked with various shades of brown gray buff and black.
They are thickly covered with hairs and as many of the markings are due to patches of different colored hairs they often present quite a different appearance when dry and when wet with alcohol.
The Lycosidae have welldeveloped legs.
The fourth pair are the longest the third pair shortest and the first and second pairs about equal in length.
The thorax and abdomen are rather elongated and the jaws are well developed.
The eyes are in three rows  four small ones in a slightlycurved row on the front of the head above the jaws and four large ones arranged in two rows on the top of the head forming a quadrilateral except in Dolomedes and Oeyale where the posterior row is nearly on a line with the middle one.
Authors differ somewhat in the number of genera in which they arrange the species of Lycosidae.
Dr. Marx in his recent  Catalogue of the Described Araneae of Temperate North America divides the family into eight genera while Emerton Lycosidre of New England Trans.
Connecticut Acad. Vol.
VI p. 481 recognizes but six considering Troehosa and Tarentula as identical with Lycosa.
The three are certainly very closely allied.
Trochosa however with its low rounded cephalothorax seems sufficiently distinct  but Tarentula at least as far as our one species T. kochii is concerned does not seem to me distinct from Lycosa.
The genera which occur in our fauna can be distinguished by the following key.
I have included Aulonia as A. aurantiaca has been found both north and south of Pennsylvania though I have not been able to find it here.
Family LYCOSIDAE.
.
Eyes in three horizontal rows.
a.
Upper spinnerets not longer than the lower.
h. Length of dorsal eyearea more than onequarter of the length of the cephalothorax.
Spiders small.
Pardosa.
hh.
Length of the dorsal eyearea less than a quarter of the length of the cephalothorax.
Spiders large or of medium size.
c. Head low in front and sloping obliquely on the sides.
 Trochosa.
cc.
Head high in front  sides more nearly perpendicular.
Lycosa.
aa.
Upper spinnerets longer than the lower.
b. Dorsal eyearea very large occupying fully onethird of the top of the cephalothorax.
Aulonia.
hh.
Dorsal eyearea occupying much less than a third of the cephalothorax.
Pirata.
.
Eyes apparently in two horizontal rows which are convex anteriorly i. e. posterior eyes so far forward as to be nearly on a line w'ith those of the middle row.
a.
Front row of eyes equidistant from the second row and the anterior edge of the cephalothorax.
Ocyale.
aa.
Front row of eyes much nearer to the second row than to the anterior edge of the cephalothorax Dolomedes.
Genus LYCOSA.
The spiders of this genus are usually large with welldeveloped jaws and strong legs.
The front row of eyes is straight or slightly curved upwards in the middle  the central pair are somewhat larger than the others.
The eves of the second row are the largest and are separated by about their diameter from one another.
The dorsal eyes are somewhat smaller and are a little farther apart.
The following key will serve to distinguish the species which I have found in eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey   .
Abdonen with a distinct median brown band running its entire length and bordered on each side by a buff band.
Thorax buff with brown stripes.
a.
Median band with edges entire.
L. punctulata.
aa.
Median band with edges notched anteriorly and including several pairs of buff spots posteriorly.
L. scutulata.
II.
Abdomen never with a median brown baud running its entire length except L. arenieola in which case the thorax is not banded buff and brown.
a. Cephalothorax not banded or with a narrow light median band not nearly as broad as the eyearea.
b. Cephalothorax polished and shining with a few scattered hairs.
c. Abdomen light gray sometimes nearly white with a median notched brown band.
L. arenieola.
cc.
Abdomen mottled with black and buff no distinct figure.
L. polita.
bb.
Cephalothorax covered with short hairs not polished.
c. Femora strongly banded above and below.
L. tigriiia.
cc.
Femora not banded.
d. Intensely black beneath  band on the cephalothorax obsolete.
L. carolinensis.
dd.
Brown beneath Avith a few black dots  band on the cephalothorax distinct.
L. nidicola.
aa.
Cephalothorax with a light median band as broad anteriorly as the eyearea.
b. Abdomen with a central light band running its entire length and which contains a short dark band c. Under side of abdomen uniform light buff.
L. ocreata.
cc.
Under side of abdomen with a semicircular black mark or black with two central light spots.
L. communis.
bb.
Abdomen gray with two dark spots at the anterior end often with several .small dorsal spots on a line with these and sometimes a short median band.
e. Band on the cephalothorax deeply notched in front of the dorsal groove.
L. kocliii.
cc.
Band on the cephalothorax with the margins entire.
L. frondicola.
bbb.
Abdomen very light gray with a dark centraltoothed band running its entire length.
L. arenicola.
bbbb.
Abdomen black mottled with buff no distinct figure.
L. jyolita.
The median band of the cephalothorax is often obsolete in L. polifa and arenicola so they are inserted twice.
L. carolinensis AValck.
PI.
XV figs.
6.
6a.
Gray or dark lrown above without any distinct pattern on the cephalothorax.
A short black median band on the forepart of the abdomen.
Under side of abdomen sternum and coxae deep black.
The male has two rows of light dots on the abdomen reaching from the middle of the black central stripe to the posterior extremity.
Length of female 25 mm.
The deep black color of the under surface and the unhanded legs serve to distinguish this species from the next while its large size separates it from the other members of the genus.
I have occasionally found this spider under stones but most frequently at the bottom of the tubelike holes which it digs in meadows or on the edges of woodland.
Females with eggbags have been taken in their burrows during the lat week of August while others apparently full sized had not deposited their eggs by the middle of September.
Males have been taken running on the ground in grass fields.
This species has been observed in Philadelphia and Chester County Penn. and also in Mercer County in the western part of the State.
L. tigrina McCook.
PI.
XY figs.
7 7a 7b 7c.
McCook Trans.
Am.
Ent.
Soc VII Proceedings p. XL L. vnlpina Emerton Trans.
Conn.
Acad. AI p. 487 pi.
47 fig.
2.
NlcCook Amer.
Spiders and their Spinning Work Vol.
I p. 323 II p. 404.
Cephalothorax brown above with a light median stripe very narrow between the eyes becoming wider in the middle and two light lateral bands.
The abdomen is dark brown sometimes with indications of black markings beneath brown.
Tiie abdomen marked with black dots and usually with three dark bands uniting towards the posterior extremity.
The legs are brown  the femur patella and tibia with light and dark bauds.
The male is much lighter colored and the bands on the thorax are very prominent.
The under side of the abdomen in one specimen has the black bands very well marked while in another it is uniform buff with a few black dots.
Length of adult female 25 mm.
This species especially the lightcolored male somewhat resembles Dolomedes tenebrosus at first sight.
Adult males and females were collected under stones in woodland during the last week of August.
The eggs had not yet been deposited.
Two adult females were collected in a similar locality in York County Penna. June 1890.
One of them had constructed' a nest by hollowing out the earth under the center of the stone.
From this a tunnel ran out to the edge of the stone and at the mouth of this tunnel the spider probably watched for her prey.
The whole floor of the nest was strewn with portions of beetles mainly of the green Cicindela sexguttata.
L. nidicola Emerton.
Above dark brown with a narrow light band on the cephalothorax and a submarginal light band on each side.
There is a light band on the anterior art of the abdomen in which is a shorter dark band.
The abdominal markings however are often very obscure in the females.
Beneath the abdomen is brown with small black dots.
Legs uniform brown.
The male is lighter and the markings are more distinct and there are traces of two light lines from behind the dorsal eyes.
Length of female 18 mm.
This is the commonest species in the vicinity of Philadelphia.
I have frequently found it under stones in woodland and also inhabiting burrows similar to those of L. carolinensis.
Nearly adult females have been taken in these holes as early as April 14th.
While digging one of them out of its burrow some years ago I was bitten on the end of the finger.
The pain was rather more intense than that experienced from the sting of a bee and extended through the whole forearm.
It did not last however more than half an hour though the finger remained swollen for some time.
I have taken this species in Philadelphia Chester and York Counties Penna. and at Pt.
Pleasant Ocean County N. J. L. arenicola ScuiUler.
Scudder Psyche II p. 2.
cCook Pruc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 333.
Marx Amer.
Naturalist 1881 p. 396.
Above light gray quite silvery in young specimens.
The cephalothorax has a Avide central band which however is often indistinct as the hairs rub off very easily leaving the cephalothorax shining reddishbrown.
The abdomen has a dark median band running its entire length much cut or toothed on the edges and including several pairs of small gray spots behind.
The legs are gray the front ones darkest and blackish beneath.
The under side of the abdomen is gray with a black spot around the spinnerets.
Length of female 17 mm.
This species I have met with only in the sandy districts of New Jersey especially near the coast.
Here they make tubelike burrows in the sand usually lining them with silk.
Numerous specimens were collected at Pt.
Pleasant August 13th 1888.
Both males and females were found in the holes but only one spider in each.
The females were not fully grown and had not yet deposited their eggs.
The tubes were made in the loose sand and were eight to ten inches deep with a slight silky lining inside but no collection of sticks or rubbish around the opening.
My friend Mr. A. P. Brown made a careful study of these spiders at the same locality some years before and states that most of the burrows examined by him had silky linings which extended out from the mouth of the hole and the sand adhering to them formed flaps.
These flaps he noticed were always drawn over the hole during rain or high wind nearly covering the mouth of it and serving as a protection to the spider within.
Burrows situated in grassy localities some distance from the beach often had a few pieces of grass or small sticks collected around the mouth but nothing like the turrets found by Dr. Marx Dr. McCook or Mr. Scudder.
For interesting accounts of these turrets see references above.
The spiders inhabiting the sandhills had the opening situated at the top of a slight mound which seemed to serve as an additional protection fi'om the particles of drifting sand.
Adult females covered with young were taken from the holes in Septelnber.
L. polita Emerton.
Above cephalothorax smooth and shining dark reddish brown with an indistinct lighter area extending from the eyes to the dorsal groove.
The abdomen is mottled with black and yellowish  there is usually a light median stripe containing a shorter dark stripe and several light spots on the sides but these markings are not at all distinct.
Beneath there is a median black band on the abdomen.
The legs are shining like the cephalothorax and are short.
Length of female 10 mm.
This species I have taken only in York County Penn.
It is found under stones but does not seem to be common.
L. frondicola Emerton.
PI.
XV.
figs.
2 2a 2b.
Above cephalothorax brown with a broad gray central band as wide as the posterior pair of eyes.
A bdomen gray with two dark spots on the anterior end which are prolonged into bands on the sides.
There are two black dorsal spots and sometimes a short median stripe as shown in Emerton's figure Trans.
Conn.
Acad. vol.
VI pi.
XLVI fig.
3.
but in nearly all my specimens this stripe is obsolete.
The under side of the abdomen is marked with a broad black band.
Length of female 14 mm.
This species I have usually found running among dead leaves in woods it is rather common about Philadelphia and has also been taken in York Co. Penn.
L. kochii Keys.
PI.
XV figs.
.3 3a .3b.
Above cephalothorax brown with a gray median stripe as broad as the eye area strongly indented on each side just in front of the dorsal groove.
There are also indistinct submarginal bands.
Abdomen gray with two black spots on the anterior end which are followed by several pairs of irregular dorsal spots and occasionally a short median stripe.
Beneath gray with minute black dots usually arranged in four longitudinal lines converging at the spinnerets.
Legs gray slightly banded on the femora.
Length of female 14 mm.
This species closely resembles the preceding but may be distinguished by the band on the cephalothorax being incised about the middle.
It is common in the vicinity of Philadelphia being found under stones in woods.
It has also been taken in Chester Co. Penn. and at several localities in New Jersey.
L. communis Emerton.
Above brown cephalothorax with a light central band as broad as the eyes and light lateral bands.
Abdomen with a broad light median band coming to a point at the posterior extremity just above the spinnerets.
On the fore part of this band is a dark strie edged with bhick ending in a point about the middle of the abdomen.
Th'ere are also some black spots on the edges of the light stripe posteriorly.
The under side of the abdomen is light buff with a black mark shaped like a horseshoe open towards the front sometimes the front ends of this mark are joined and there is a black median stripe leaving only two buff spots.
The markings above and below are very distinct.
Length of female 12 mm.
I have found this species under stones and logs.
It is not common about Philadelphia but is very abundant in York Co. along the Susquehanna River.
I have also taken it in Chester Co. Penn.
and at Pt.
Pleasaant N. J. L. ocreata Ilentz.
Above cephalothorax brown with a broad central and narrow lateral band.
Region around the eyes black.
Abdomen brown on the sides with a light central baud indistinctly barred with brown on the posterior portion and with a central brown band reaching to about the middle.
Under side of the abdomen uniform buff.
Legs light with long spines the first pair in the male thickly covered with black bristly hairs which stand out horizontally forming a conspicuous tuft.
I have taken this species near Philadelphia and in York Co. Penn.
Length of male 7 mm.
L. punctulata Hentz.
Above cephalothorax light buff with two longitudinal brown bands extending back from the eyes leaving a central buff band of about equal width.
There is also a very narrow line of brown on the margin and traces of a submarginal line.
The abdomen has a dark median band edged with black running its entire length and on each side of this a buff band while the sides are brown.
The under side is buff the abdomen usually with a few black dots.
Legs bu.f.
 Length of female 15 mm.
I have taken this species in Philadelphia Chester and Lancaster Counties Penn.
and at Point Pleasant N. J.
It is found running among grass but is not nearly as common as the next.
L. scutulata Ilentz.
Similar to L.punctulatn.
Cephalothorax buflf with two wide brown bands and a narrower buff one between them.
jNIarginal line black submarginal line brown indistinct.
The abdomen has a broad dark median band with a narrow buff band on each side.
The edges of the median band are cut or toothed anteriorly and it contains several pairs of buff spots in the posterior portion.
The sides of the abdomen are dark brown  beneath it is uniform buff.
Legs buff the front pair in the male have the femur patella tibia and part of the tarsus dark brown.
Length of female 16 mm.
This species is very common running in grass fields.
The female makes a nest under stones when carrying her egg bag.
The eggs are deposited during the latter part of August.
Adult males were collected during the first week in August.
I have taken this species in Philadelphia Chester Lancaster and York Counties Penn.
Genus TROCHOSA.
This genus is quite similar to Lycosa but the cephalothorax is lower and the sides of the head much more oblique.
T. cinerea Fab.
General color very light gray nearly white yellowish in alcohol.
Cephalothorax with a number of irregular radiating brown markings.
Eyes surrounded with black in alcohol but when dry the white hairs conceal the black patch.
Abdomen marked in the center with a number of brown dots and patches of yellow hairs with four short narrow brown lines on the anterior part and some irregular brown lines on the dorsum.
Beneath white.
In alcohol there appears to be an irregular brown median band with two rows of white spots surrounded with brown.
Legs white with black spines.
Length of female 15 mm.
I have found this species only on the coast of New Jersey.
Nearly adult females were collected under boards and rubbish near the beach on April 30th.
On the night of Aug. 12th 1889 while catching Amphipods and other small Crustacea which abound on the beach after dark I caught a number of these spiders which appeared to run down after the retreating waves in search of food.
Some of these were females that had already deposited their eggs while others were not more than half grown.
Genus PIRATA.
The spiders of this genus are of rather small size.
They bear considerable resemblance to Lycosa but the upper spinnerets are longer than the lower and the eyes of the middle row are very large and prominent and are usually separated from each other by less than their diameter.
The posterior eyes are somewhat farther forward than in Lycosa.
There are usually three longitudinal lines on the cephalothorax which unite near the dorsal groove.
P. piratica Clerk.
Cephalothorax brown with three buff lines running back from the eyes and uniting into one at the dorsal groove also a subniarginal band on each side.
Abdomen with a median light stripe bordered with black on the anterior portion and outside of this several pairs of yellowish spots becoming smaller and united by cross lines posteriorly when dry there are two longitudinal rows of small white dots on the back and some white markings on the sides and anterior margin rest of abdomen blackish.
Below buff with three black lines from the epigynum to the spinnerets the side ones more or less contiguous with the dark coloring of the sides of the abdomen.
Legs yellowish  the femora obscurely banded.
Length of female 5 mm.
This species is very common about Philadelphia in damp fields and swamps.
Females with Qgg bags have been collected about the middle of August.
P. elegans nov. sp.PI.
XV figs.
5 5a.
Cephalothorax brown with a light median band partially divided into three anteriorly by two narrow brown lines.
Xo submarginal bands but a very narrow whitish marginal line only seen when dry.
Abdomen reddishbrown with several pairs of black dots in a median row the posterior ones smaller and connected by transverse lines.
Beneath brown.
Legs uniform yellowish.
The peculiar shape of the epigynum can best be seen in the figure.
It is usually quite prominent.
Length of female 6 mm. 4th leg 8 mm. 1st leg 7 mm.
This species is rather abundant in damp woods in York Co. Penn. in June.
P. marxi nov. sp.
PI.
XV figs.
1 la.
General color reddishbrown.
Cephalothorax with an indistinct buff median line with traces of side branches in front from the dorsal groove to the eyes.
Lateral submarginal bands broken and indistinct.
Abdomen with a light median band in the anterior portion of which is a shorter dark band terminating about the middle.
On the posterior portion are two longitudinal rows of four buff dots.
Legs reddish brown lower side of abdomen uniform somewhat lighter than above.
When dry the markings on the eephalothorax are very indistinct and it appears nearly uniform reddishbrown.
The epigynum has a triangular depression on the posterior margin the edges of which are horny somewhat swollen and dark colored.
Length of female 9 mm. 1st leg 10 mm. 2nd leg 11 mm. ord leg 9 mm. 4th leg 13 mm.
It gives me great pleasure to dedicate this species to Dr. George Marx of Washington D. C who has greatly assisted me in my study of the Araneae.
This spider was collected in York Co Penn. only one specimen was secured.
Genus PARDOSA.
The species of Pardosa are all small.
The legs are long and slender armed with long spines.
The dorsal eye area occupies about one quarter of the eephalothorax and the eyes are large for the size of the spider.
The following key will serve to separate the species that I have found in Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
.
eephalothorax uniform black shining.
P. nigra II.
Cehalothorax with a light median band.
a.
Band contracted just before the dorsal groove.
b.
A distinct light median band on the abdomen.
e. Several distinct transverse light bands on the posterior part of the abdomen male palpus black.
P. nigropalpis.
cc.
Transverse bands obsolete male palpus with the patella white.
P. albopatella.
bh.
No distinct median band on the abdomen.
P. lapidicina.
aa.
Band not contracted.
P. bilineata.
P. nigropalpis Emerton.
Female.
Cephalothorax brown with a broad gray central band broadest just behind the eyes then contracted and widened again around the dorsal groove and narrowed posteriorly.
There are two narrow gray submarginal bands.
The region around the eyes is black.
Abdomen dark brown with a median gray stripe reaching nearly to the middle and followed by several transverse gray stripes becoming shorter posteriorly.
Legs gray indistinctly banded.
The male is similar but darker with the markings more obscure.
The palpi are deep black and are very prominent.
In alcohol the liglit markings ajpear ycllowi.sh.
Length of female 5 mm.
Thifi is one of our most common spiders and is abundant running on the ground in fields and gardens.
Females have been taken with egg bags and some covered with young during the early part of August.
P. albopatella Emerton.
Female.
Cephalothorax similar to P. nigropalpis.
Abdomen with a median light band reaching to the middle the rest of the abdomen mottled but without any distinct cross stripes.
The male according to Emerton has the lateral bands of the cephalothorax broader and brighter than in P. nigrojalpis while the patella of the palpus is white.
Length of female 4 mm.
I have found only the female of this species and it does not seem to be very common about Philadelphia.
P. bilineata Emerton.
Female cephalothorax dark brown with a distinct broad buff median band slightly wider at the anterior end and on each side a light marginal band with a dark line down the middle of it.
Eye region black.
Abdomen brown with a bright yellow'ish central band in the anterior portion of which is a brown stripe the posterior part has several black dots along the margin.
Beneath the abdomen is light with four longitudinal lines converging near the spinnerets.
The two median lines are sometimes indistinct.
Length of female 7 mm.
This species is not very abundant but has been taken near Philadelphia.
P. lapidicina Emerton.
Cephalothorax brown the central light band deeply incised in front of the dorsal groove and the anterior portion more or less obliterated widest around the dorsal groove and suddenly narrowed posteriorly.
Lateral bands broken and irregular.
Abdomen brown with irregular yellowish spots arranged in two longitudinal rows and more or less connected transversely and longitudinally.
Legs light distinctly banded with brown.
Length of female 7 mm.
This species I have taken only among the Susquehanna hills in York county Penn.
P. nigra nov. sp.
PI.
XV fig.
4 4a.
Cephalothorax smooth and shining uniform black with a reddishi brown luster no stripes whatever.
Sternum and coxae similar somewhat lighter.
Abdomen black indistinctly mottled with olive brown or gray without any distinct pattern though there is a more or less distinct light median stripe on the anterior part reaching nearly to the middle.
The sides of the abdomen are black thickly speckled with small gray dots.
Beneath brownish with no distinct markings.
Mandibles and palpi shining dark reddish brown front edge of cephalothorax just below the first row of eyes yellowish.
Legs femur dark shining like the cephalothorax patella white  the first and second pairs have the other joints entirely yellowish white the third pair are similar but with prominent black spines while the fourth pair have the tarsus banded with brown at the ends.
Two females with egg bags were taken running in a pasture field in Chester Co. Penna. in the latter part of August.
Length of female 5 mm.
1st leg 5
mm.
4th leg 9 mm.
Genus OCYALE.
The cephalothorax and abdomen are rather more elongated than in Dolomedes or Lycosa.
The hind row of eyes is nearly on a line with the second and the front row is equidistant between the second row and the front of the cephalothorax.
0. undata Hentz.
Cephalothorax light bulf with a broad brovn median band as wide as the eye area.
Abdomen with a central band somewhat scalloped on the edges.
Legs buff.
Old specimens have the legs darker and the abdominal markings less distinct.
Length of female 12 mm.
This spider is quite common being found on bushes or among grass where it spins a loose mass of web and deposits its egg bag.
I have sometimes noticed it make its nest in the folds of a window curtain inside the house.
I have taken specimens at Philadelphia and in Chester Co. Penna.
Genus DOLOMEDES.
The cephalothorax in this genus is very broad the second and third rows of eyes are nearly as in Ocyale but the front row is much nearer to the second than to the edge of the cephalothorax.
The species live about water.
D. tenebrosus Hentz.
11.
XV fig.
8.
Cephalothorax brown with a broad light marginal band and a light one behind the eyes terminating in a point in front of the dorsal groove.
There are also several dark radiating lines.
The abdomen is gray and brown with several transverse black angular marks resembling the letter W across the posterior portion.
On the anterior part are two longitudinal black bands enclosing a lighter space between them all these black bands are bordered with light buff.
Beneath uniform brown.
The coloration varies considerably in different individuals especially with age.
Legs banded with brown and gray.
Length of female 25 mm.
from tip to tip of legs stretched longitudinally 90 mm.
This species is abundant about water often inhabiting spring houses and boat houses.
The female carries her bag of eggs in August and the young have been observed in a rough web on weeds early in September.
This spider runs over the surface of water readily and frequently goes beneath when pursued.
The male I have not seen.
D. sexpunctatus Ilentz.
Cephalothorax reddishbrown with a bright silvery white band on each side.
Abdomen brown with a similar band on each side and two rows of white dots down the back.
Beneath brown.
Leg uniform brown.
The white markings do not show when the spider is wet with alcohol.
From the note in Dr. Marx's Catalogue there seems to be some confusion about the male of this species and the preceding.
I have a specimen from York Co. Penna. which I think is undoubtedly the male of D. sexpunctatus as it is just like the female except that the ground color is lighter it having just cast its skin and the white spots are all surrounded with black.
Length of female 11 mm.
I have taken the female at Pt.
Pleasant N. J. near the beach.
Dr. McCook has taken it at Philadelphia.
Explanation of Plate XV.
Fig.
1.
Pirata marxi female.
Fig.
la.
Epigynum of same.
Fig.
2.
Lycosa frondicola female.
Fig.
2a.
Same under side of abdomen.
Fig.
2b.
Same epigynum.
Fig.
3.
Lycosa kochii female.
29 Fig.
3a.
Same under side of abdomen.
Fig.
3b.
Same epigynum.
Fig.
4.
Pardosa nigra female.
Fig.
4a.
Epigynum of same.
Fig.
5.
Pirata elegans cephalothorax.
Fig.
5a.
Epigynum of same.
Fig.
6.
Lycosa carolinensis under side of abdomen.
Fig.
6a.
Epigynum of same.
Fig.
7.
Lycosa tigrina female.
Fig.
7a.
Same under side of abdomen.
Fig.
7b.
Epigynum of same.
Fig.
7c.
Male palpus of same.
Fig.
8.
Dolomedes tenebrosu female.
December 2.
Mr. Theodore D. Rand in the chair.
Sixtyeight persons present.
A paper entitled  Description of a new Japanese Scalpelluni by Henry A. Pilsbry was presented for publication.
The death of Samuel Lewis M. D. a member was announced.
Geology of the South Chester Valley Hill.
 Mr. Theo.
D. Rand remarked that in a paper on the serpentines he had called attention to the fact that northwest of West Chester there appeared to be an outcrop of Laurentian rock on the north side of Black Horse Run or Taylor's Run apparently enclosing a mica schist valley.
He had expressed doubt as to whether it was really Laurentian.
A further study of this region convinced him that these gneisses extend several miles at least and certainly from the east branch of the Brandywine to the High Street Road near Taylor's Mill and that they belong properly to the mica schist formation of Cream Valley which bounds the serpentine on the north and further that these schists ofteu garnetiferous compose the greater mass of this part of the South Chester Valley Hill which has he believed been heretofore universally regarded as wholly of the hydromica schist of which it is composed a few miles to the northeast.
It is true that in some places it is extremely difficult to tell one rock from the other but where largely exposed the separation is clear.
Small hand specimens often look alike rock masses do not.
Where garnets occur they are a distinguishing feature as he believed they are not found in the true hydromica schist.
When garnets are absent the most characteristic feature is the occurrence of the quartz which in the hydromica is in lenticular masses closely covered with the hydromica which adheres strongly while in the mica schists the quartz is either disseminated or interlaminated in sheets frequently very thin.
The fracture too is characteristic the hydromica breaks into more or less lenticular masses the tendency being towards very thin flat plates with very smooth surfaces or more usually into elongated roughly oval masses on which parallel faces are almost entirely absent but still with an even smooth surface.
The mica schist on the contrary is more massive has a more or less regular lamination breaking into masses with two nearly parallel sides the other fractures irregular but without the tendency to come to a thin edge prevalent in the hydromica.
The surfaces are rougher and somewhat corrugated.
The mica schist occasionally contains feldspar the hydromica probably never.
There is in some places at least a marked change of dip that of the hydromicas being almost invariably 80 and upwards and not regular while the garnetiferous schists dip less steeply and invariably to the southeast.
The garnets are frequently absent over large areas  again they are abundant but as a rule less so as we aproach the hydromica.
On the East Branch of the Brandywine atid on the adjacent affluent Valley Creek the mica schists appear to be between two and three miles wide while the hydromica narrows to probably less than three quarters of a mile.
This is in marked contrast to the exposure in Radnor twelve miles to the northeast wiiere the mica schists are not over 200' wide while the hydromicas extend two miles.
On the East Branch the contact is near Hawley's Mill.
The actual contact cannot be observed but the change of dip and in the character of the rock is well marked.
In these schists northwest of West Chester near Taylor's Mill fragments apparently of Potsdam sandstone were found similar to the occurrence in Cream Valley and in them or next to them also occurs the limestone of this region.
In the discussions of the geology of this section it seems to have been taken for granted that the topographical South Valley Hill was wholly of hydromica schists which widened westward.
The fact that the mica schists in question are not of the same age as the hydromica schists may explain in part the want of agreement between different geologists on this region.
It was his intention to study this farther and present the facts more fully hereafter.
December 9.
Dr. Geo.
H. Horn in the chair.
Thirty persons present.
December 16.
Dr. Benjamin Sharp in the chair.
Thirtyseven persons present.
Trichia proximella Karst.
 Dr. Geo.
A. Rex presented specimens of Trlchia jioximella Karst.
and described its specific characters history and geographical distribution.
This species is not rare in the United States having been found in many localities its range as far as yet known extending from Canada to North Carolina and as far west as Iowa.
It occurs however less frequently than Trichia ckrysosperma Rost.
growing usually in small scattered clusters of minute closely aggregated sessile sporangia of a golden brown color.
In the Journal of Mycology for August 1886 the speaker had published a paper giving an analysis of the results of an examination of a large number of specimens of sessile aggregate Trichias from widely separated localities.
Exclusive of those referred to Trichia chrysosperma Rost.
the specimens there described were all of one specific type possessing some of the diagnostic characters of T. affinis De By.
and T. Jackii Rost.
and yet properly referable to neither species.
Since that paper was written however a type specimen of T. proximeUa Karst.
was obtained from Dr. Karsten by Mr. Harold Wingate through whose courtesy the speaker was enabled by comparison with that type to refer the above series of undetermined specimens to T. proximeUa with certainty.
More recently he has examined over fifty additional specimens principally from Fairmount Park Philadelphia which would be issued in a forthcoming century of the North Am.
Fungi E and E. In these he had found the same specific characters as before the elaters morphologically similar in all specimens but the spores showing a great variety of epispore sculpturing in the same cluster of sporangia and even in the same sporangium.
Using the figures of the spores of T. affinis and T. Jackii in Rostafinski's Monograph as convenient type illustrations it may be said that the spores in some of the sporangia of T. proximeUa show raised bands or markings largely of the T. affinis type  in others largely of the T. Jackii type  in others a commingling of both types in all cases these type markings being more or less associated with a bewildering variety of sculptures of irregular form or of forms suggesting the outlines of the Arabic numerals or various letters of the alphabet.
These bands are perforated through their thickness with one two or three rows or a cluster of minute cylindrical openings or pits or are sculptured into intricate plexuses of minute reticulations with quadrilateral interspaces.
In the type specimen of T. proximeUa the spore markings approach the T. Jackii type.
The elaters or threads are 4'5  thick and provided usually with foTir spirals which are closely and minutely spinulose and connected with each other by well marked and numerous interspiral filaments.
The elaters in all the American specimens correspond morphologically with the type diflering only in a coarser growth in some cases due probably to local conditions.
The speaker further illustrated with the microscope the relations of T. proximeUa to T. Jackii its nearest allied species.
Through the kindness of Prof. W. G. Farlow he was enabled to exhibit a type slide of T. Jackii prepared by Dr. Farlow from a portion of the type specimen of Rostafinski.
Considering the great variability of the spore sculpturing in the two species the spores of T. Jackii do not differ specifically from those of T. proximeUa.
The elaters however are more slender and otherwise not so strongly developed having few and poorly developed interspiral filaments.
Nevertheless these filaments can be determined beyond a doubt by a sufficiently high power lens.
Under these circumstances the speaker believed that the difference between the two species is that of development only.
Note on Stemoiiitis maxima Sz.
 Mr. Wing ate remarked that he had carefully examined the type of this Stemonitis in the Schweintiz collection in the herbarium of the Academy and although the specimen is very old and has not been handled with the care which is now bestowed upon these delicate forms of the Mycetozoa the speaker was gratified to find a remnant of capillitium which contained spores enough to identify the species with one of the commonest forms found in this vicinity.
This very common species will probably be found in most herbaria under thename oi Stemonitis fusca Roth Rost.
but on comparing it with an authentic specimen of the latter species the distinctness of the two species is very apparent.
Mr. J.
B. Ellis has sufficient material at present of Stemonitis maxima Sz.
and proposes to issue it shortly in Ellis  Everhart's  North Amer.
Fungi.
The speaker was indebted to Mr. Geo.
Massee of Kew Gardens Loudon for authentic specimens of several species of Stemonitis and hoped with this aid to be able to identify our American species and make the same the subject of a future communication.
December 23.
Mr. Chas.
p. Perot in the chair.
Thirtyone persons present.
A paper entitled  Palaeosyops and Allied Genera by C. Earle was presented for publication.
The Development of Bacillus tuberculosis.
 Dr. Samuel G. Dixon made the following summary report of his work in the Bacteriological Laboratory of the Academy with special reference to investigations on the tubercle bacillus.
The communication was read at the meeting of the 18th ult. publication being deferred in consequence of the author's immediate departure for Europe   Our experiments show that the Bacillus tuberculosis is capable of changing from its commonly recognized rod form to that of a more compound one.
Some of the rods assume a club shape while further on in the cycle of life they become branched many organisms showing at least one distinct branch.
When these forms including some ordinary shapes are placed on a pabulum rich in glycerine and poor in pepton yet suited to their existence the culture medium within a few weeks shows an increase of foreign matter.
This includes not only a few of the complex forms but many ordinary rod bacilli.
Time however produces an increase of the more complex microorganisms which may be a degenerate form of the bacillus.
There would appear to be in this homogeneous mass something other than the bodies of the microorganisms.
This may be the residue of the pabulum remaining after the bacilli have selected what was necessary for their existence or a digestive secretion or again it may be an excretion of the live organism.
Let this be as it may I hope to find a changed functional action in the organism in its secretion or excretion that would combat tuberculosis in animal life either by stimulating the cells or by causing a chemical reaction in the tissues that were susceptible to the digestive secretion of the tubercle bacillus.
An attempt to explain its probable action appears in an article I wrote for the  Medical News of October 19th 1889 and also in the  Medical and Surgical Reporter and the  Times and Register of this year.
The views expressed are however purely hypothetical.
When the mass that I have already spoken of as being found on the pabulum was subjected for a considerable length of time to various degrees of heat and injected into the guinea pig the animal seemed to sicken yet only for a short time.
The animals so treated appear to resist injections of virulent bacilli.
Whether this would produce immunity for any length of time provided we discontinue the administration of the remedy I am not sure.
Some animals injected with virulent matter after the treatment with the changed mass had been discontinued appear to be immune  and experiments on animals suffering with tuberculosis have resulted most satisfactorily.
From the fact that I believe an inorganic matter would be less dangerous in the treatment of tulerculosis than organic matter work on the following lines is being carried out.
First of all we have tried the subcutaneous injection of Trypsin into tuberculous animals.
The rationale of this will be patent to all.
Then again we have introduced the respective bile constituents into the blood of tuberculous animals.
This was suggested by the condition of liver and bile found in them.
Another method we have employed has been to introduce germicides directly into the spleen thereby bringing the drug in contact with the blood corpuscles when in probably a susceptible state.
We have also introduced germicides into the intestinal tract accompanied with predigested food stuff.
In this method we have the germicide in contact with the intestinal glands when the latter are in an inactive state of absorbing.
The animals have been kept under strictly hygienic surroundings.
The results have varied much.
While one has been unsatisfactory another has been promising.
At this stage a cablegram from Berlin has informed us that Prof. Koch of that city has succeeded in producing a lymph that does combat tuherculosi.s in man.
Believing the reports I feel convinced that he has brought his researches to a higher degree of refinement than that accomplished at this time in our laboratory.
I intend therefore to sail for Berlin in the interest of humanity as well as in the interest of the Academy and the Jefferson Medical College and Hospital.
My fervent wish is that those who have had hope of cure breathed into them by the Hon.
Prof. Koch will enjoy a full realization and that I may return better understanding microorganic life and armed with that which will hereafter check the tubercle bacillus in its devastations in the animal economy.
December 30.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Thirtyone persons present.
The following were ordered to be printed   1890.
441
