CATALOGUE OF THE OWLS IN THE COLLECTION OF THE BY WITHER STONE.
In the following list I have not followed Mr. Sharpe's Catalogue of Birds in the arrangement of the genera and species as was done in the Catalogue of the Muscicapidre Proc.
Phila.
Acad.
1889 p. 146 since his work seems to differ in this respect from most of the recent works on the subject.
But having adopted the names and arrangement of the North American species as given in the A.
0.
U.
Check List I have endeavored to interpolate the foreign genera and species in their proper places and to make the nomenclature conform as nearly as possible to the code of the American Ornithologists' Union.
The total number of species and subspecies of Striges seems to be somewhat over 200 and of these the Academy collection contains 113 represented by 525 specimens including the types of 14 species.
The principal individual collections to which the specimens belong are as follows  Massena collection covering the whole world.
Gould collection Australia.
Boys collection India.
DuChaillu collection.
West Africa.
Prince Momfanoi collection Siam.
Pease and D'Oca collections Mexico.
Townsend collection.
Western N. A. and Sandwich Islands.
Cassin and Krider collections mainly N. A. Abbott collection of skins North America and West Indies.
The majority of these were contained in the private collection of Dr. Thomas B. Wilson and w'ere presented by him to the Academy.
After each species are given the localities from which the Academy has specimens.
Family STRIGIDJE.
Strix aluco Linn.
S'.
Jiammea of authors.
Specimens from France and Liberia.
Strix aluco javanica.
Gm.
India specimens collected by Capt.
Boys.
Strix aluco delicatula.
Gould.
Types from Australia Gould's collection.
Strix pratincola Bonap.
1 Specimens from Penn. N. J. N. Y. Dist.
of Col. and Cal. 
Strix pratincola perlata.
Lieht.
i One from Brazil and two from Nicaragua probably the latter  belong to the race guatemalae Ridgw. but I cannot distinguish them I from the South American bird.
Strix pratincola furcata.
Temm.
i Several specimens from Cuba.
i Strix novaehollandiae Steph.
A series from N. and S. Australia and Is .
S. Wales Gould collection.
Strix castanops Gould.
Types of the species from Tasmania Gould's collection.
Strix tenebricosa Gould.
Type of the species from Isew South AVales  also one from the j Massena collection. '
Strix Candida Tick.
One specimen from India.
Strix capensis Smith.
 Three specimens from Cape of Good Hope.
Rhodilus radius.
Horsf.
One specimen from India Capt.
Boys' collection.
I Family BUBONIDAE.
 Asio otus.
Linn.
A series froni Europe Rivoli collection.
Asio wilsonianus.
Less.
A series from Pennsylvania and Ncav Jersey.
Asio madagascariensis.
Smith.
i One male Madagascar.
Asio capensis.
Smith.
' Specimens from South Africa and Iorocco.
j Asio accipitrinus.
Pall.
i Specimens from Pennsylvania New Jersey California  South America India and France  also one specimen from the Sandwich Islands A. sandvicensis Blyth.
collected by J. K. Townsend M. D. 
PULSATRIX PERSriCILLATA.
Lath.
Young in various stages of plumage also adult male and female from Brazil Nicaragua and Jalapa Mexico.
There is also a specimen from Peru which seems to differ from any described phase of this species.
It is uniform chocolate brown above lighter than perspicillata and showing a tendency to darker coloration on the head the breast and throat are chocolate uniform with the back the white being confined to a spot on the chin the rest of the under surface is fulvous the white spots on the wing coverts are much less marked than in perspicillata and are suffused with fulvous.
Mr. Ridgway whom I consulted about this specimen writes me that there is in the National Museum  one specimen with no white whatever on the chin while a large majority have no trace of white or light colored markings on the Aving coverts.
I think it probable therefore considering the variation in this group that this is merely a phase of perspicillata rather than a distinct species or race.
CiCCABA HULULA.
Daud.
Several specimens from South America.
Cacciba nigrolineata.
Scl.
Jalapa Mexico from the D'Oca collection.
CiCCABA VIRGATA.
CaSS.
Specimens from Mexico Cayenne Bogota and Trinidad Some of the South American specimens are in all jirobability Mr. Cassin's types but there are no data to show wdiich they are.
CiCCABA SUPERCILANS.
Peltz.
Brazil.
CiCCABA ALBOGULARIS.
CaSS.
Several specimens from South America including the types of the species.
CiCCABA HYLOPHILA.
Temm.
Columbia and Brazil.
The species of the old genus Syrnium form a very perplexing group when a subdivision is attempted.
The northern genus Scotiaptex is easily separable  then there are the typical Syrniums from the more northern portions of both continents the species varying more and more from the type as they go south.
I have followed Sclater and Salvin in grouping the South American nakedtoed species together in the genus Ciccaba.
The African forms seem to vary in much the same way but for convenience I have left them as well as all the other old world species in the genus Syrnium.
The synonymy of the generic names which have been applied to these species seems to be considerably involved.
Syrnium nuchale Sharpe.
Rivers Moonda and Ogobai West Africa collected by DuChaillu.
Syrnium woodfordi.
Smith.
Cape of Good Hope.
Syrnium leptogrammicum.
Temm.
Sumatra.
Syrnium newarense.
Hodgs.
Malabar.
Syrnium ocellatum Less.
India.
Syrnium sinense.
Lath.
Java.
Syrnium nivicolum Hodgs.
India.
Syrnium stridulum.
Linn.
S.
alaco authors.
Specimens from France Sweden and Algeria.
Syrnium nebulosum.
Forst.
Specimens from Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Syrnium uralense.
Fall.
Sweeden from Kinberg's collection.
Syrnium uralense fuscescens.
Tem.
and Schl.
One specimen from Japan.
SCOTIAPTEX cinereum.
Gm.
One specimen collected by J. K. Townsend in the Rocky Mts.
ScoTiAPTEX cinereum lapponicum.
Retz.
One typical specimen from Russia and another marked  Northern Europe  which is darker with considerable rufous on the hind neck.
Nyctala tengmalmi.
Gm.
France.
Nyctala tengmalmi richardsoni.
Bonap.
 Fort Resolution HudsonBay Terr. presented by the Smithsonian Institution.
Nyctala acadica.
Gmel.
Pennsylvania and other parts of the United States.
Also one from Cassin's collection marked Bogota.
Nyctalatinus harrisi Cass.
One specimen which is in all probability the type though it bears no label Avhatever.
Megascops scops.
Linn.
Specimens from France Senegal and one from the Himalayas which seems to be identical with European specimens though it should perhaps be referred to the race pennahis.
Megascops scops capensis Smith.
A distinct dark race represented by several specimens from Cape of Good Hope.
Megascops scops hendersonii.
Cass.
Types.
A male and female marked  Off Novo Redonda came on board.
These birds are smaller than any other specimens of Megascops in the collection and seem to constitute a distinct race.
They are very bright in their markings and are much lighter on the back than South African specimens.
Megascops sunia.
Hodgs.
India Megascops elegans.
Cassin.
One specimen from Japan type of the species.
I do not think this is the bird described by Sharpe under Scops elegans from China as his description does not suit the type before me.
M. elegans seems to me to be more nearly related to M. menadensis from the Celebes.
See also Stejneger Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
1886 p.
640.
Megascops magicus.
Miill.
A specimen from Siam is doubtfully referred to this species.
Megascops magicus menadensis.
Q.
 G. Celebes.
Megascops magicus leucospilus.
Gray.
India.
Megascops lettia.
Hodgs.
Specimens collected in India by Capt.
Boys and compared with the type by Dr. T. B. AVilson.
July 1851.
Megascops lempiji.
Horsf.
Specimens from Java Borneo and India.
Megascops rufescens.
Horsf.
Specimens from Sumatra.
Megascops sagittatus.
Cassin.
Three specimens from Malacca types of the species.
Megascops leucotis.
Temm.
Four specimens from Fazogloa.
This is a very distinct species and reminds one of an Indian Bubo in miniature.
Megascops asio.
Linn.
Series from Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Megascops asio maccallii.
Cass.
One immature bird from New Mexico.
Megascops asio semitorques.
Schl.
Specimens from Japan.
Megascops brasilianus.
Gm.
Series from Cayenne Brazil etc.
Megascops brasilianus Guatemala e Sharpe 
Several specimens doubtfully referred to this race.
Megascops brasilianus ustus.
Scl.
Specimens from Peru and Columbia.
Megascops brasilianus watsoni.
Cassin.
Type of the species from Orinoco.
Megascops barbarus.
Scl.
and Salv.
One darkly colored specimen from Mexico.
There is another INfegascops No.
2442 from Panama reddishbrown above with very fine transverse markings and marked below with rufous cross bars very fine and very close together so as to appear nearly uniform on the breast.
This specimen does not agree well with any described phase but is perhaps related to barbarus.
Megascops cooperi.
Ridgway.
One specimen agreeing well with Mr. Ridgway's description and easily distiuguished by the bristly toes from any member of the brasilianus group to which it approaches in coloration.
LoPHOSTRix CRiSTATA.
Daud.
Four specimens from Cayenne representing both phases of plumage.
SCOTOPELIA PELI.
Bp.
One immature specimen from W. Africa collected by DuChaillu.
Ketupa ceylonensis.
Gm.
Specimens from Bengal and two from Capt.
Boys' collection.
Ketupa javensis Less.
Specimens from Java Sumatra and India.
Bubo bubo.
Linn.
France and Switzerland.
Bubo virginianus.
Gm.
Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Bubo virginianus subarcticus.
Hoy.
Specimens from Iowa and California and also the type taken in Wisconsin presented by Dr. Hoy.
Bubo virginianus magellanicus.
Gm.
Specimens from South America.
Bubo mexicanus.
Gm.
Specimens from Cayenne.
Bubo bencjalensis.
Frank.
India.
Collected by Capt.
Boys.
Bubo ascalaphus Sav.
Morocco and Egypt.
Bubo capensis Smith.
Cape of Good Hope.
Bubo maculosus.
Vieill.
Cape of Good Hope.
Bubo cinerascens Guer.
Fazogloa.
Bubo lacteus.
Temm.
Senegal W. Africa.
Bubo coromandus.
Lath.
India collected by Capt.
Boys.
Bubo nipalensis Hodgs.
Himalayas.
Bubo orientalis.
Horsf  India and Java.
Bubo leucostictus Hartl.
Moonda river W. Africa collected by DuChaillu.
Nyctea nyctea.
Linn.
Specimens from New Jersey and some from northern Europe.
Surnia ulula.
Linn.
Europe.
SuRNiA ULULA CAPAROCH.
Miill.
Nova Scotia.
Speotyto cunicularia.
Molina.
Bolivia and Peru.
Speotyto cunicularia hypogaea.
Bonap.
Specimens from California Oregon and New Mexico.
Speotyto cunicularia floridana.
Ridgw.
One specimen from the west coast of Florida.
Gymnasio nudipes.
Daud.
Two specimens from St. Thomas W. I. Gymnasio lawrencil Scl.
 Salv.
Cuba.
Athene noctua.
Scop.
France and Algeria.
Athene brama.
Temm.
India.
NiNOX LUGUBRis.
Tick.
India.
NiNOX scuTELLATA.
Raffl.
Sumatra.
NiNOX BOOBOOK.
Lath.
S. and W. Australia from Gould's collection.
NiNOX novaezealandiae.
Gm.
New Zealand.
NiNOx maculata.
Vig.
 Horsf.
Tasmania.
NiNox PUNCTULATA.
Q.
 G. Celebes.
NiNOX CONNIVENS.
Lath.
New South Wales.
Gould's collection.
NiNOX STRENUA.
Gould.
Types of the species from New South Wales Gould's collection.
Also the type of Athene rufa Gould which seems to be a phase of this species from Pt.
Essingtou North Australia.
Glaucidium passerinum.
Linn.
France.
Glaucidium gnoma.
Wagl.
California and Washington Territory.
Glaucidium pumilum.
Temm.
Two specimens one from S. America and the other with no locality.
These are the specimens described by Ridgway Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
1873 pp.
97 and 98.
Glaucidium siju D'Orb.
Cuba.
Glaucidium nanum.
King.
South America.
Glaucidium jardinii.
Bonap.
New Grenada and Brazil including the types of G. langshergii Ridgw.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
1873 p. 98.
Dr. Wilson's name is written  lanshergii  on the stands.
Glaucidium phalaenoides.
Daud.
A large series of specimens in both phases of plumage varying in both size and coloration.
Glaucidium bkodiei.
Burton.
India.
Glaucidium perlatum.
Vieill.
Senegal and South Africa.
Glaucidium radiatum.
Tick.
Himalayas.
Glaucidium castanopterum.
Horsf.
Java.
Glaucidium cuculoides.
Gould.
India.
MiCROPALLAS WHITNEYI.
CoOpcr.
One specimen from Arizona presented by the Philadelphia Zoological Society.
GEOLOGY OF ARTESIAN WELLS AT ATLANTIC CITY N. J.
BY LEWIS WOOLMAN.
During the past three years there have been drilled for the Consumers' Water Company at Atlantic City IST.
J. four artesian wells.
These are of various depths as will be more particularly noticed further on.
As the work progressed I have been studying it from a geological standpoint believing that a careful record of the succession of strata penetrated and of their included fossils would in connection with information yet to be obtained by developments at other localities lead to valuable results.
Among these would be the construction of a true vertical section across the State from Camden to the sea showing the amount of dip and the thickness of each of the various Quaternary 
 Miocene Eocene and Cretaceous beds including also the determination of the number and location of the different waterbearing strata.
Whatever results have been arrived at their attainment is due primarily to the cooperation of three members of the company Dr. T. K. Reed Jos.
H. Borton and F. Helmsley who have afforded every facility for geological investigation.
Credit is also due J. H. Moore contractor for the first three wells and P. H.  J. Conlin contractors for the fourth well for much information and for the care they and their assistants have taken to preserve specimens every few feet.
These they placed in small dairy salt sacks with Dennison's shipping tags attached on which they marked the depth and description of material.
In scientific circles thanks are due Prof A. Heilprin for valuable assistance in paleontology and geology to C. Henry Kain and his colaborer E. A. Schultze for authoritative identification of diatoms to Dr. D. B.
Ward of Poughkeepsie N. Y. for photomicrographs of the same which have aided the author in their study and to C. L. Peticolas of Richmond Va. for cleaning and separating the diatoms from numerous specimens of earths.
Well No.
1 is situated at the S. E. corner of Iichigan and Arctic Avenues  the other wells are grouped within a radius of 100 feet of each other upon a knoll within the meadows about onefourth of a mile nearly N. W. of No.
1.
Well No.
1 was sunk to a depth approximating 1150 feet.
At about 1100 feet a plentiful supply of fresh water flowed to five feet or more above the surface.
This water since 1887 has been furnished through street mains to many hotels and cottages.
Well No.
2 was aaudoned at 325 feet on account of an accident.
Well No.
3 was then sunk to 1400 feet or lower but without success in obtaining water.
Drilling was suspended at this point and the pipe is now being withdrawn in the hope of developing some of the water strata that were undoubtedly passed through probably in a partially closed condition. These three Avells were bored by the process usually used in rock countries by means of the drill and sand pump.
The succeeding well.
No.
4 was put down by the hydraulic method in Avhich the drill has a hollow body with perforations near the cutting end.
To this drill as the work proceeds are added section after section of tubing.
Down this tubing water is forced by pressure through the perforations above noted and rising between the tube and the casing flows out at the top continually carrying mixed Avith it the loosened material from the bottom in finely divided form.
This process is much used along the New Jersey coast and is well adapted to soft strata and where no solid rock occurs.
In well No.
4 water flowing above the surface was found at 328 406 429 and 554 feet.
By pumping the 328 feet level yielded about 50 gallons a minute but the 406 feet only about five gallons.
The water from each of these although fresh at first proved salty on being pumped and these strata were therefore cased off.
Owing to the toughness of the clay the pipe  a teninch one  could not be driven further than 424 feet  the boring was therefore continued without casing the walls remaining intact W'ithout such support until a total depth of 578 feet was reached.
In sand at 429 to 430 feet a very small flow of fresh water Avas obtained but at 554 to 560 feet a gray waterbearing sand was pierced from which I am informed there flowed 50 gallons a minute.
By pumping this yield was at once increased to 150 gallons and afterwards to 200 gallons.
This water has now been pumped several weeks.
It proves pure and fresh and is pleasant to the taste.
From well No.
3 there were preserved 184 specimens of earth from as many different depths.
These were comjared with a carefully kept record of strata furnished by J. H. Moore and the upper ' As this article was going to press information was received that a waterbearing stratum was opened at about 720 feet that flowed 10 gallons a minute.
part collated with 37 additional specimens from well No.
4.
From this the accompanying section has been constructed which it is believed is an accurate representation and grouping of strata.
Upon the left is a minute description of the various changes in material copied verbatim from a record furnished by J. H. Moore with the insertion however in brackets of the depths of the various waterbearing hoi'izons as learned from the development of the other wells.
Upon the right the section is subdivided so as to show the grouping of the strata into larger beds having certain characteristic features.
For convenience each of these is marked by a letter and a corresponding letter heads each paragraph relating to the same in the succeeding detailed description.
A  Underneath 30 feet of ordinary beach sand there exists 15 feet of blue nuid.
This was probably the bottom of an old thoroughfare or channel.
It contains the usual shells of the coast the oyster the clam and the scallop and also one single minute organism belonging to the foraminifera and identical with the only living species  a No7iioninano found on the beach.
B  Beneath this is a series of sands and gravels 220 feet in thickness varying from whitish to yellow in color and alternating from very fine sand to very coarse gravel.
At 84 to 116 feet and again at 228 feet these gravels exhibit pebbles containing fossils that show them to be of Devonian and Silurian origin.
Similar fossiliferous pebbles are plentiful at Straffordville north of Tuckerton and also in the cuts of both the Camden and Atlantic and the Reading Railroads at about 14 miles from Atlantic City.
All of these localities are about 60 feet above tide.
Certain yellow gravels and sands at 135 to 160 feet may be seen apparently matched on a hill N. E. of EUwood 120 feet above tide and 21 miles distant.
Specimens from the hill and the well are quite undistinguishable.
These data indicate a dip of from 12 to not over 15 feet per mile for these gravels.
The gravels and underlying white sands of this section are the same respectively as are referred to in the New Jersey survey reports as the yellowgravels and the glass sands.
The former have been named by Prof. H. Carvill Lewis the Glassboro gravels.
They are spread over the Atlantic seaboard in this and other States southward and are regarded by many geologists as Quaternary in age.
This section terminates in the well at about 265 feet.
 C  The dcith last named marks the passage from these nearly horizontal Quaternary strata to the commencement of a long series of INIiocene beds with slightly increased dip.
The uppermost bed of this series consists of 118 feet of reddishbrown sand ranging from light to dark in color.
It contains a dark clay seam at 289 feet and another at 320 feet described as green clay each of these is about 5 feet thick from beneath the latter the first flow already noted in well No.
4 was obtained.
This red sand bed contains wood throughout that was continually brought up by the hydraulic process in very small fragments otherwise it is nonfossiliferous.
D  Below these red sands or from 383 to 658 feet occurs the most remarkable development of diatomaceous clays yet discovered in the Avorld being 275  feet in vertical extent.
Excepting a few pure sand beds not over from one to ten feet in thickness this entire horizon is more or less made up of this low order of microscopic plants.
As might be expected the diatoms of this deposit are marine forms.
Associated with the diatoms are also a number of sponge spicules many of them of the pinhead forms that are characteristic of salt water sponges.
At 540 feet were fouufl a few clam and other shells in fragments but so worn and broken as to be unidentifiable siecifically.
One however was either a Modiola or a Mytilus.
This deposit is already especially interesting to microscojists and will become increasingly so until it will attain worldwide publicity.
On this account a minute description is here inserted   383 to 390 Clay  1 t.i  jo.A  'ni o 'i 1  ich in diatoms excet the sand 390 to 391 band pure white   ' 391 to 406 Clay.
j ''' 406 to 410 Gray sand  No diatoms.
410 to 429 Clay  Moderately rich in diatoms.
429 to 430 Dark sand  No diatoms.
430 to 480 Clay  Diatoms associated with about 5 forms of foraminifera and much comminuted shell.
480 to 510 Sandy clay  Moderately diatomaceous.
510 to 535 Clay  Very rich in diatoms.
1 Since the preparation of the section diatoms have been noticed though very sparingly in the next lower 20 feet.
This would increase the total thickness of the diatom beds to nearly 300 feet.
535 to 554 Sandy clay  Moderately rich in diatoms.
554 to 560 Clear gray sand  No diatoms.
AVater bearing stratum.
Kan 4.
KK Altei'nations of pure clays r i r  obO to 575  '  More or less diatomaceous.
and sandy clays. 
575 to 600 Sandy clays  Moderately diatomaceous.
600 to 620 Brown clay  Rich in diatoms.
620 to 632 Brown clay  Diatoms in greatest abundance.
632 to 658 Chocolate clay and comminuted shell.
Poorly diatomaceous.
The forms from the richest portions at 400 525 and 625 feet have been most carefully observed under the microscope and identified by C. Henry Kain and E. A. Schultze.
They have determined 149 species which are distributed among 49 genera.
This includes a number of new species named described and figured by them in the Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club. They are indicated in the following enumeration which includes all so far listed.
There will probably however be a few forms yet to add.
Forms marked rare are of rare occurrence in the well and not necessarily so elsewhere.
AcTiNOCYCLUS Ehrenbergii Ralfs.
AcTiNOCYCLus suBTiLis Grev.
Ralfs.
AcTiNOCY'CLUs iNTERPUNCTATus Bright.
Rare.
AcTiNOCYXLus Ralfsii W. Sm.
AcTiNoDiscus Atlanticus n.
sp. Kain  Schultze.
ACTINOPTY'CHUS aREOLATUS Ehr.
ACTINOPTYXHUS GrUNDLERI A. S. AcTiNOPTYCHUS SPLENDENS Ehr.
Grun.
AcTiNOPTYCHUs ujsTDULATus Ehr.
var.
Halion YX Grun.
Several varieties.
AcTiNOPTYCHus VULGARIS Schumau var.
ViRGiNiCA Grun.
Several varieties.
Amphitetras minuta Grev.
Rare.
Anaulus birostratus Grun.
Very rare.
ASTEROLAMPRA Mary'landica Ehr.
AuLACODiscus Crux Ehr.
Two varieties.
Aulacodiscus Petersii Ehr.
AuLACODiscus SoLLiTTiANus Norman.
AuLiscus Caballi a. S. AuLiscus CffiLATUs Bailey.
iVol.
xvi pp.
71 to 76 and pp.
207 to 210 Plates LXXXIX. XCII. and XCIII.
AuLiscus PRUiNOSUS Bailey.
AuLiscus Glyphodiscus 
spiNosus Christian.
BiDDULPiiiA AURiTA Lyngb.
Breb.
Biddulphia alternans Christian.
BiDDULPHiA Baileyi W. Sm.
Biddulphia Brittoniana n.
sp. Kain  Schultze.
Biddulphia Cookiana n.
sp. Kain  Schultze.
Biddulphia Woolmanii n.
sp. Kain  Schultze.
Biddulphia decipiens Gruu.
Rare.
Biddulphia elegantula Grev.
Biddulphia pulchella Gray.
Rare.
Biddulphia rhombus Ehr.
W. Sm.
Biddulphia seticulosa Grun.
Biddulphia Tuomeyi Bailey.
Biddulphia turgida Ehr.
W. Sm.
Bidduiphia longispina Grun.
Biddulphia Weissflogii Grun.
Cerataulus Californicus 
var.
n.
sp. Kain  Schultze.
CoccoNEMA LANCEOLATUM Ehr.
Rare.
GosciNODiscus Argus Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS ASTEROMPHALUS Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS CONCAVUS Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS ECCENTRICUS Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS ELONGATUS Grun.
COSCINODISCUS EXCAVATUS Grev.
Several varieties.
COSCINODISCUS ilGAS Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS ISOPORUS Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS Lewisianus Grev.
Rare.
COSCINODISCUS lineatus Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS Nottinghamensis Grun.
Rare.
COSCINODISCUS OcuLus Iridis Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS PERFORATUS Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS RADIATUS Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS RHOMBicus Castracane.
COSCINODISCUS ROBUSTUS Grev.
COSCINODISCUS SENARIUS A. S. COSCINODISCUS SYMMETRicus Grev.
Cestodiscus ovalis Grev.
Cestodiscus RHOMBICUS Grev.
Ch.etoceros didymus 
Ehr.
10 Craspedodiscus coscinodiscus Ehr.
Craspedodiscus coscinodiscus var.
Nankookensis Grun.
Cyclotella operculata Kutz.
Cymatopleura solea W. im.
DiCLADIA CAPREOLUS Ehr.
DiSCOPEEA PHYSOPLEA Ehr.
DiMEREGRAMMA NovA CSAREA 11.
sp. Kaiii  Schultze.
DiMEREGRAMMA NovA CiESAREA var.
OBTUSA 11.
var. Kaiii  Schultze.
DiMEREGRAMMA FULYUM Greg Ralfs.
Epithemia Gibba Ehr.
Kutz.
Rare.
Ethmodiscus
sp
Castracane.
Eucampia Virginica Grun.
Rare.
EuNOTiA monodon Ehr.
Two varieties.
EuNOTiA ROBUSTA Ehr.
Ralfs.
Several varieties.
EuNOTiA Americana ii.
sp. Kain  Schultze.
EupoDiscus Argus Ehr.
Eupodiscus radiatus Bailey.
EUPODiscus RoGERSii Ehr.
Varieties with 3 4  5 processes.
Eupodiscus sp.

GONIOTHECIUM OBTUSUM Ehr.
GONIOTHECIUM ODONTELLA Ehr.
'GONIOTHECIUM RoGERSII Ehr.
Grammatophora SERPENTINA Ehr.
var.
Rae.
Hemiaulus affinis Grun.
Hemiaulus bipons Ehr.
Grun.
Hemiaulus polycistinorum Ehr.
Huttonia Reichardtii Grun.
var.
Hyalodiscus l.evis Ehr.
Hyalodiscus Stelliger BaileyPoDOSiRA maculata W.
Sm.
LiRADiscus MiNUTus Grev.
Mastogonia Actinoptychus Ehr Meiosira sulcata Ehr.
Kutz.
Plagiogramma Gregorianum Grev.
Pleurosigma Virginiacum Peticolas.
Pleurosigma Sp.

Fragments of a very large form allied to P. angulatum.
PsEUDAULiscus RADIATUS Bailey.
Pyxidicula cruciata Ehr Rhabdonema Atlanticum n.
sp. Kain  Schultze.
Raphidodiscus Febicjerii T. Christiau.
Rhaphoneis gemmifera Ehr.
Rhaphoneis amphiceros Ehr.
Rhaphoneis Belgica Grun.
Rhaphoneis fluminensis Grun Rhaphoneis scalaris Ehr.
Rhizosolenia Americana Ehr.
Rhizosolenia styliformis Bright.
SCEPTRONEIS CADUCEUS Ehr.
Sceptroneis gemmata Grun.
Stephanogonia Actinoptychus Ehr.
Stephanogonia polygona Ehr.
Stephanopyxis apiculata Ehr.
Stephanopyxis ferox Grev.
Ralfs.
Stephanopyxis Corona Ehr.
Grun.
Stephanopyxis Grunowii Grove  Sturt.
Stephanopyxis limbata Ehr.
Rare.
Stephanopyxis Turris Grev.
Ralfs.
Stictodiscus Buryanus Grev.
Stictodiscus Kittonianus Grev.
SuRiRELLA Feigerii Lewis.
Tabulina testudo J. Brun.
Terpsinoe intermedia Grun.
var.
Triceratium American um Ralfs.
Triceratium condecorum Bright.
Triceratium Ehrenbergii Grun.
Triceratium Ehrenbergii Discoplea undulata Ehr.
Triceratium Fisherii A. S. Triceratium Heilprinianum n.
sp. Kain  Schultze.
Triceratium Kainii n.
sp. Schultze.
Triceratium indentatum n.
sp. Kain  Schultze.
Triceratium Kainii Schultze var.
constrictum Kain  Schultze n. var.
Triceratium Marylandicum Bright.
Triceratium obtusum Ehr.
Triceratium robustum Grev.
Triceratium semicirculare.
Bright.
 Euodia BrightWELLii Ralfs.
Triceratium spinosum Bailey.
Triceratium Solenoceros Ehr.
Rare Triceratium tessellatum Grev.
Triceratium undulatum Ehr.
Tryblionella Hantzschiana Grim.
Tryblionella scutellum W. Sm.
Many of the forms are found everywhere from top to base of this section.
Among these Meloslra sulcata is one of the most frequent.
Others are found predominating only at certain horizons  among these may be noticed a beautiful iridescent manyrayed disc form Act'inocyclus Ehrenbergii which is chai'acteristically abundant at 625 feet  it occurs sparingly at 525 feet but is scarcely if at all seen at 400 feet.
At about 525 feet the genus Rhaphoneis an elongated form occurs more frequently than elsewhere and in many varieties.
Associated with it at this same depth are a number of rare forms heretofore found only in this country in an Artesian well at Cambridge Md. at a depth of 275 feet and again in a well at Fortress Monroe at a depth of 558 feet.
The general resemblance seen in strewn mounts from Cambridge and Atlantic City is so great as to suggest an exact identity of strata.
More light however will be needed to definitely settle this point.
Respecting Rhapho7ieis the variety of forms grading almost insensibly from one to the other is so great that it is possible to so arrange a dozen or more side by side in a line that differences are not readily appreciable except by skipiing over ijitermediate forms and comparing those some distance apart.
In fact T. Christian has shown me a slide containing 16 such forms from the Cambridge well and C. Henry Kain has remarked respecting these same forms at Atlantic City that they  present such variations of structure as to suggest the advisability of decreasing the number of species usually considered as belonging to this genus.
There is a curious anomaly in connection with a newly described elongated species Biddulphia Brittoniana found at 525 feet.
In this the two frustules composing one individual and usually presenting their convex sides outward have never been observed in that manner but instead two frustules separated from different individuals are found with their convex sides inward and fastened together by the interlocking of curiously hooked seta at both ends of each frustule.
At 425 feet five foraminiferal forms are associated with the diatoms.
After chemical treatment of earth from this depth for the cleaning and sejaration of the diatoms one species of foraminifera a Textularia remained intact in the form of a siliceous infernal cast  the shell having been destroyed bv the acids used.
In the sands interbedded between these diatoniaceous clays occur the three lower of the waterproducing strata noticed in connection with well No.
4.
The upper one as before stated proved unsatisfactory  the middle gave but a scanty flow and the lower yielded an abundant supply of water.
In a letter received by the writer from the late Prof. George H. Cook he says   I have written the well contractors and also marked on a geological map the location and dip of strata and the depth and location of the wells on the waterbearing stratum from which Atlantic City may reasonably hope to get a supply of good water and have assured them that it should be carefully looked for at 530 to 600 feet below sea level and in a letter to a member of the company he named 577 feet as the probable depth.
This came very close to the fact as was afterwards realized.
In the letter to the writer just quoted he states that the bored Avells at Barnegat Harvey Cedars Weymouth May's Landing and Pleasant Mills have all the same quality of water have passed through similar strata and are on a dip of 25 feet per mile.
Assuming as probable that the wells at Pleasant Mills and well No.
4 at Atlantic City draw from the same stratum and measuring the distance between the two locations at right angles to lines drawn through each parallel to the trend of the cretaceous strata we have 22 miles.
The well at Pleasant Mills is of 34 feet depth below tide.
This would make the dip for at least the upper ortion of the Miocene beds 23 to 24 feet per mile thus harmonizing wdth the views of the late State Geologist.
E  Beneath the diatomaceous clays and occupying the next 103 feet or from 658 to 761 feet occurs a series of fossiliferous beds as follows  Chocolate clay comminuted shell slightly diatomaceous.
See footnote page 135.
19 f 5 ft. Green marl full of shelly 677 to 700.
Fossil ' 8 ft. Sandy clay full of shell .
.
23  10 ft. Light sand full of shell j 8 ft. Coarse gravel  sand nonfossiliferous  6 ft. Quicksand nonfossiliferous  26 12 ft.
Dark chocolate clay nonfossiliferous 3    . f 4 ft. Sandv marl and shell  .
26to iOi.
lossili  ' 1 VI 1 n     .
27 ft. Green marl with shell  Tough clav mixed with gravel .
.
4 These beds are probably the same as the Pliocene shell outcrops at Shiloh and Jericho near Bridgetou N. J.
The lower of the two fossil horizons within this section showing some of the rarer forms found at these localities.
The species found here will be again referred to in connection with those from greater depth.
F  The next interval of 83 feet is occupied by sands the upper 73 feet being reddishbrown in color and much like those above the diatom beds and the lower 13 feet being a gray micaceous quicksand.
G  Between 844 to 955 feet are included a clay and a marl bed as follows  844 to 905.
Fossil ''y'  ... 61 i a fesv fossils at 875 feet. 
r Green marl  lower 2 feet a bed of pon 905 to 955.
Fossil  derous oysters so broken by the drill  .
55 C as to be undeterminable as to species. 
H  The next section from 955 to 1095 feet covers 140 feet of peculiar greenishyellow sands with many streaks of loam of the same color.
It contains barnacles throughout indicating a shallow sea.
This was further corroborated by a few shallow water mollusks at about 1000 feet.
I  From 1095 to 1225 a series of 130 feet includes two marl beds and is best described thus  1095 to 1126  Dark greenishgray clay  j   3  abundance of foraminitera.
j 1126 to 1146 Dark green marl.
20 1146 to 1170 Dark green marly clays 24 1170 to 1225 Fossil   ' S' '' ' '''''''  55 L granulata it IISO feet. 
From this point downward as far as the boring continued to 1400 feet or thereabout is one continuous bed of tough clay light to dark slate in color and containing multitudes of foraminifera especially in the lighter colored clays.
There are also from this bed a few mollusks and quite a number of specimens of deep sea corals belonging to the genus Flaeocyathus very similar to an undescribed form from the Miocene deposits of San Domingo and now in the Academy's collection.
The life forms of this division indicate a deepening sea.
The foraminifera very closely resemble species described in 1846 by d'Orbigny from the Miocene clays around Vienna.
Forms representing at least 14 genera occur in all the clays below 1095 feet while about five of the same generic forms have been observed between 430 to 480 feet.
The genera are as follows   Nodosaria Dentalina Cristellaria Robulina Nonionina RotaUna Rosalna Bulemlna Uvigerlna Amphistigina Guttulina Biloculina Triloculina and Textularia.
It now remains to enumerate the fossils excepting the microscopic  ones already listed.
Although generally in very fragmentary condition it has been possible to name 82 species of mollusks exclusive of 8 forms determinable by genera only.
Besides the mollusks there were representatives of eleven other life forms among them a few varieties of corals and a bone belonging to an animal of the crocodilian order.
Identifications of all the fossils excepting the microscopic have been very kindly made by Prof. A. Heilprin.
Specimens obtained from both wells No.
1 and No.
8 are included.
In those from No.
3 the depth where each was found is given  in No.
1 this is not known.
Of the 41 molluscan forms from well No.
1 and noted in the Academy's Proceedings for 1889 all but 12 were again found in well No.
3.
The list is as follows  Anomia probably ephippium.
Arca centexaria.
A RCA subrostrata 682.
Arca idonea
Arca lienosa 725.
Arca plicatura.
Artemis acetabulum.
ASTARTE obruta 682.
ASTARTE PERPLANA 700.
AsTAKTE Thomasii 875.
AsTARTE CUNEIFORMIS 695.
AsTARTE compsonema 725 875.
Amphidesma subreflexa 750.
Cardita granulata 682 750 885 1180.
Cardita arata.
Cardium creticuloides I or LEPTOPLEURA j Cardium laqueatum 700.
Corbula cuneata 750.
Corbula idonea 700.
CORBULA ELEVATA 752.
CORBULA SP.

900.
Chama congregata 700 750.
Crassatella melina.
Cytherea 8P.
DONAX VARIABILIS.
.
GOULDIA LUNULATA Or AsTARTE 1350.
LUCINA TRISULCATA 752.
LUCINA CRENULATA 752 875 1350.
LlTCINA FOREMANI 695730.
Mactra lateralis 682 752.
Mytiloconcha incurva.
Mytilus incrassatus 682 752.
Mysia acclinis 752. nucula 0bliquaproxima 730.
Nera sp. 1335.
OsTREA Mauricensis 682.
182725.
I OSTREA sp.  955 jQQ I Pecten Madisonius 682 750.
Pecten Humphreysii 677 700.
Pecten vicenarius.
Pecten Marylandica 726 1000.
Pecten comparilis.
Pectunculus parilis 726.
Pectunculus lentiformis 752.
Perna maxillata 682 750.
Saxicava arctica 740.
Tellina subreflexa.
Tellina declivis 752.
YoLDiA or Leda 752.
VoLvuLA or Bulla 1380.
Venus altilaminata 682 730.
Venus sp.
687 750.
DiSCINA lugubris Cerithium sp.
875.
CoLUMBELLA AmYCLA COMMUNIS 740.
Cylichna sp.

Crepidula sp.

690 750.
Dentalium sp.

690.
Proc.AcHd.Nat.Sci.Phila.
1390.
Plate I.
fllsbry del.
PILSBRY ON AEROPE AND PUPA.
1890.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
145 i Dentalium dentalis 1400.
1 FuLGUR Shiloiiensis 730.
FuLGUR sp.
G82 750 875.  Fusus devexa 726.
 Murex Shilohensis 730.
Natica catenoides 677 756 875.
Natica duplicata 690 750. '
Neptunea migrans 875.
' Neptunea sp.

730.
Oliva canaliculataCarolinensis 695 726.
PeRISTERNIA FILICATA 730.
Pleurotoma Marylandica 890.
 Pleurotoma pseudeburnea 740.
T ' Pleurotoma limatula 
875.
 ' Petaloconchus sculpturatus 1000.
 Turritella Cumberlandia 682. 
turritella quistriata 752. '
Turritella plebeia 677.
Turritella indenta 
Turritella secta 875 900 1400.
Turbinella Woodi.
Tritia trivitata 726 875.
Tritia peralta 875.
Tritia obsoleta.
Trochita centralis 695 750.
Turbo eboreus 750.
Terebra indenta 730.
Terebra simplex 690 730. r Placocyathus.
Coral  AsTREA.
 Dendrophy'llia.
f Lamna tooth.
.
 Odontaspis tooth.
h ish '   Mylobates tooth.
I Fish scale.
Gavial  Tooth.
Crocodilian Bone  Femur or humerus.
EcHiNoiD spines.
OpERCULA of GASTEROPODS.
Crustaceans  Manacles Balanus  Crab's claws.
11 Of the molluscan forms named above whose depth is known 54 were from the two fossiliferous beds included between 677 and 757 feet.
Of these 37 were found in the lower of the two divisions  10 of these and 17 others making together 27 Avere found in the upper of the two divisions.
Of the forms in both divisions 26 have been found at Shiloh and Jericho and include several species especially characteristic of these localities and jrobably belong to the same bed.
Five of the above and nine others wei'e found at 875 feet viz   ASTARTE ThOMASII.
AsTARTE CoMPSONEMA.
Also at 725 feet.
Cardita granulata.
Also 677 to 757 and below.
Cerithium.
CORBULA.
FULGUR.
LiTciNA CRENULATA.
Also 757 and below.
Lyrosoma sulcosa.
Also lower.
Natica catenoides.
Also 677 to 756. ieptunea migrans.
Pleurotoma Marylandica.
Pleurotoma limatula.
Also lower.
TURRITELLA SECTA.
'Tritia trivittata.
Also 725.
The following three shallow water species were obtained at about 1000 feet in association with Balanus.
OSTREA.
Pecten Marylandica.
Petalaconchas sculpturatus.
Cardita granulata occurred at 1180 feet also at 875 feet and in both divisions of the horizon between 677 to 757 feet.
In the tough clay bed below 1335 feet were the following Dentalium dentalis.
GOULDIA LIMATULA Or AsTARTE.
LuciNA CRENULATA.
Also higher.
Lyrosoma sulcosa.
Also at 875.
Neera sp.

Pecten comparilis.
turritella secta.
VoLVULA or Bulla.
To these should be added the coral Placocyathus before noted.
The evidence as to the sections from .383 feet to 1225 feet Avhere the bottom of the very dark green marl bed is reached is preponderatingly in favor of Miocene age for these strata.
In view of the lack of distinctive Eocene fossils below that depth the occurrence of Placocyathns and the still decided Miocene aspect of the few molluscan remains it may be concluded that the boring has not yet passed through the Miocene.
The occurrence of Turritella plebeia and Pecten Hwnphreysii in these wells and of Turritella plebeia in a well at Cape May Point at a dejith of about 400 feet would indicate for the uper portion a INIiddle INIiocene age while all below would be Lower iNIiocene.
Reference has already been made to the dip of the yellow gravel and of the diatomaceous clays the latter being placed at 23 to 24 feet per mile.
The shell marl at Shiloh outcrops about 60 feet above tide and the distance between parallel lines of strike for Shiloh and the well'i 35 miles.
The bottom of what is probably the corresponding shell stratum in the well is at 757 feet.
A calculation ased on these data gives 23 feet to the mile as the dip for the Shiloh beds.
The water from Winslow well and from Atlantic City Well No.
1 at 1100 feet are of the same quality as proved by analysis.
This favors their being from the same stratum.
Winslow is distant 30 miles and the depth of the well theie below tide is 215 feet.
Based on these figures the dip of strata in that portion of the well is 29 to 30 feet per mile  this increase of dip is probally correct.
In fact when we take into consideration the greater thickness seaward of the sands and clays in the lower jiortions of the well together with the oscillations of sea level as shown by the character of the fossils these being alternately shallow sea and deep sea forms it is quite likely we shall yet find a still greater increase of dip for the base of the Miocene.
The results of this examination indicate a greater thickness for the Miocene deposits of the southern part of the State than has generally been held by geologists and as a consequence increases the heretofore estimated dip of the underlying Cretaceous and Eocene beds in that section of the State.
These INIiocene shell and diatom leds are no doubt closely related to beds of similar character and of the same age in Maryland and Virginia.
The author is not however at present able to trace any one stratum continuously.
The diatomaceous clays at Atlantic City occur above beds containing Perna while in the States just named similar clays occur below Perna beds.
That there are several Perna beds would seem to be the solution of this problem.
This however remains vet to be demonstrated.
April 1.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
One hundred and twelve persons present.
The deaths of John Jordan Jr. and Frederick Graff members were announced.
Mr. Theo.
D. Rand gave before the Mineralogical and Geological Section the substance of his paper on  The Serpentines of Southeastern Pennsylvania  with lantern illustrations.
April 8.
Mr. Gavin W. Hart in the chair.
Seveliteen persons present.
April 15.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Twentynine persons present.
Variatio7is in Bidimus exilis.
 Dr. Benjamin Sharp called attention to two varieties of Bnlimus exilis which he had found on the islands of Guadeloupe and Dominica.
One variety was characterized by broad dark brown bands which run parallel with the coil of the shell  while the other was peculiar in possessing small and very faint bands which in many specimens were entirely absent.
The banded variety was found to be common in Guadeloupe while the bandless one was rare.
In Dominica which is separated from Guadeloupe by a channel of only twentythree miles the banded variety was very rare while the light or loandless one was comparatively common although individuals were by no means so common in Dominica as in Guadeloupe.
He spoke of the probable cause of the variation and suggested that it was due to some environmental action.
The island of Dominica being wholly of volcanic origin would produce a different kind of food from the Grande Terre portion of Guadeloupe which in formation is purely coral.
It was on this portion of Guadeloupe that the specimens of B. exilis were collected.
It is known that Dominica has mauy species and some genera of plants that are peculiar to the island and this difference of food may in some way account for the differences in this species of land snail.
Dr. Sharp said that it is probable that the dearth of laud shells on the volcanic islands and their coraparative plenty on the coral and continental islands of the Caribbean group is due to the absence of carbonate of lime in the former and its presence in the latter.
Hemarks on the exuviae of snakes.
 Dr. Benjamin Sharp further spoke on the exuviae of two snakes Avhich were shed in the laboratory of the Academy two days previously.
These snakes Eutameia sirtalis B.
 G. had been presented to the Academy on the 19th of March 1890 and had been captured the day before in New Jersey.
The whole process of shedding the skin had been observed.
One of the snakes was in the water when first seen and coming out upon the sod it shrugged and shook itself for a moment  then getting between the glass of the vivarium and the box containing the earth the skin parted at the jaws and the animal crawled out leaving the exuvia.
The cerebral portion being fixed the animal passed through the opening so that the discarded skin as is always the case was turned wrong side out.
One of the specimens was interesting as it was entirely perfect without the slightest rent and not a scale missing.
The other was perfect but there was a considerable rent on each side of the jaw.
The operation took less than one minute.
The snake was startled about the middle of the process.
It crawled away from the exuvia very rapidly.
April 22.
Ir.
Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twentythree persons present.
The following were presented for jiublication    New East Indian Land Shells.
By H. A. Pilsbry. 
Description of a new species of Helix.
By John Ford.
April 29.
The President Dr. Leidy in the chair.
Twentysix persons present.
The folloAving were elected members   Abraham Barker William K. Shryock and Walter Conrad.
The following was ordered to be printed   SYNOPSIS OF AMERICAN CARBONIC CALYPTRID.
BY CHARLES R. KEYES.
There has always been a considerable diversity of opinion as to what term should really be applied to that paleozoic group of gasteropodous shells commonly referred by most American writers to Platyceras of Conrad.
The described species of this group have been variously and indifferently assigned to Capulus Montfort Fileopsis Lamarck' Actita Fisher von Waldheim Platyceras Conrad Acroculia Phillips OHhonychiaHaW and some other genera.
Of these Capulus and Platyceras have become at last generally adojDted  the former having preference with most European and the latter with the majority of American authors.
Generic Considerations.
It may be premised here that the two genera just mentioned are practically coextensive  and since the first has precedence  of more than thirty years  it should be used instead of the second.
Even if the group to which Conrad gave the name Platyceras is a valid one it is very questionable whether the term could stand inasmuch as it has been preoccupied for threequarters of a century.
It has long been known that Geoffrey in 1764 proposed for a genus of coleoptera the name Platyceras a term which was later employed by Latreille  and which continues to the present day in good usage as originally proposed.
Taking advantage of this fact OEhlert '' has recently revived Phillips' name Acroculia for the Platyceras group of shells  but this of course cannot ie adopted.
As regards the actual generic characters of the various species their specific limitations range of variation and the distribution in time and space of the different varieties greater confusion has 1 Conch.
System. vol.
II p. 54.
1810.
2 Anim.
sans Vertebr. t. VI 2 p. 16.
1822.
3 Mem.
de la Soc.
imp.
d. Naturalistes de Moscau t. VI p. 234.
1823.
 Ann.
Rep. N. Y. Gaol.
Sur. p. 205.
1840.
5 Palte.
Fobs.
Cornwall p. 93.
1841.
6 Rept.
4th Dist.
N. Y. p. 172.
1843.
 Hist abregee des Insectes 1764.
8 Precis des caracteres des Insectes 1796.
9 Bill de la Soc.
Geol.
de France 3 t. XI p. 602. perhaps nowhere existed among fossil uiollusks than in tlie group under consideration.
This utter hick of agreement among Avriters is directly traceable to a number of causes  the majority of the species have been described from very few or single specimens with little regard to tlie forms already known  no attention whatever was paid to variability and indeed the range of the latter has only very lately been made out with any degree of certainty  comparisons with individuals from localities more or less widely distant have been made only in exceitional cases.
General Features.
The leading characters of generic value in modern Capulus as shown by the more typical shells as C. humjaricus Linne are the obliquely conical shape the small often closely incurved or coiled spire the broad campanulate ajertural portions and the peculiar horseshoeshaped muscular impressions.
In the paleozoic forms heretofore referred to Platyeeras these features have been made out most clearly in C. paralius AV.
 W. and C. equilatendia Hall  though the affinities are not less striking in many other species.
In a group of more than three hundred described paleozoic species having so few salient characters for classification and such a great range of variation as the forms assigned ta Platyeeras it is hard to foresee the difficulties in attempting to arrange satisfactorily the manv different forms.
The genus may ultimately admit of a suitable separation into several more or less well marked subdivisions  and the many forms make such an arrangement very desirable.
It can however only be accomplished after a careful and critical revision of the entire group.
The placing of Platyeeras OrtJionychia etc. as subgenera under Oipulm as has been done by ZitteP and others manifestly does not meet the requirements at least in so far as the American species are concerned.
It is probable that all of the described Platyceiata cannot be included under Capulus.
Just which ones remains for future comparisons to decide.
There seems to be good ground for believing that further study will show that a number of the paleozoic forms in question belong more properly to genera closely allied to Capulus rather than to Capulus itself.
This would carry back the antiquity of certain modern genera farther than has hitherto been considered possible A recent critical examination of certain described Platycerata also discloses that they belong to families entirely difterent from those supposed.
1 Handbuch der Paleontologie II Band p. 210.
General Relations.
There is often considerable embarrassment in attempting to separate certain paleozoic Capnli on the one hand from some forms of Platysfoma especially from those species in which there is a greater or less tendency for the shells to nncoil  and on the other hand from various genera of Patelloid shells.
As might be expected in a group of gasteropods presenting so few constant characters which can be satisfactorily relied upon as classificatory criteria it is often impossible to clearly distinguish between certain of these species.
Many structural features long regarded as of much importance in identification have recently  been shown to possess very little if any specific value owing to their great variability.
It has therefore become necessary to consider as of the utmost significance the basing of species upon general resemblances rather than upon unimportant varient characters arising from the diverse conditions of environment imposed by a more or less extensive geographic and geologic distribution.
Therefore in choosing for classificatory purposes the characters of any group it is evident that only those features exhibiting the least tendency to modification are available.
Even the most constant structures appear to lose much of their stability at some period during the existence of the group  whether specific generic or family  while other characters more or less variant in the earlier stages of development later become less liable to change.
At some time these features blend and thus appear the transitional forms.
It may be assumed then that in many groups of the same genetic origin some varieties will present features that have remained for a long time practically unmodified  while others exhibit the same characters in a highly specialized but ever changing condition.
And it is of great interest to note that the latter  those having greatly exaggerated features  are the forms wiiose existence is of comparatively short duration  and that with these intensified structures the development is rather rapid while their culmination results in a great diminution of the gi'oup's vitality or more commonly its extinction.
Number of Species.
Among the first to notice the existence of Carbonic Capuli in the continental interior were Yandell and Shumard who called attention to the association of a species with an Acrocrmus afterwards described by the former author as A. shuviardi.
These writers attempted to prove that the crinoids were carnivorous in their habits and that they subsisted on moUusks.
1 Keyes  Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc vol.
XXV p. 231.
Capulus acutirostris however was the first species of this group of gasteropods described from the Carbonic rocks of tlie Mississippi basin  and was so denominated by Hall in 185fi.
The publication of this diagnosis was followed in quick succession by definitions of other forms by Stevens Hall Swallow McChesney Winchell White and Whitfield and Meek and AVorthen  so that the total number of species that have been brought to notice from the carbonic rocks of North America is more than two score.
A part of this number are however to be regarded as synonyms reducing the actual number of species as now recognized nearly onehalf.
I.
Habits of the Carbonic Calyptreans.
Variation in Form.
It has been noted frequently in the descriptions of various paleozoic species of Capulus that the shells often present a more or less welldefined quinquelobate appearance and that the apertural margins are for the most part sinuous or crenate.
In the absence of salient classificatory characters these features were regarded usually of much importance for specific distinction.
It was not until a comparatively recent date that their true significance was indicated.
The fact here referred to is the attachment of fossil Capuli to foreign bodies and particularly to the calyces of crinoids.
The observations on this habit of the ancient Capuli has been fully considered elsewhere but may be here briefly summarized by stating that in all the examples examined  upwards of sevei'al hundreds  1 the gasteropod shell invariably lies over the anal opening of the crinoid  2 the mollusk remained in this position for a considerable period probably for the greater part of life as is shown by the shells on highly ornamented calyces and by the removal of them from their places of attachment and tracing the growth of the shell by the concentric grooves made on the ventral plates  3 the growing shell followed closely the inequalities of the surface upon Avhich it rested  depressions giving rise to furrows and protuberances to folds or nodes  and 4 shells simply lying on flat surfaces are much more depressed and proportionally broader than those clinging to the vertical or inclined portions of calyces in which the anal opening is situated laterally.
The third of these statements is perhaps best illustrated by crinoids having low interradial areas and elevated radial regions and is the probable explanation of the frequent occurrence ofthe more or less distinctlyfivelobed calyptrsean 1 Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc vol.
xxv 1888. shells.
Heretofore this pheuomeuon has admitted of no direct causal iuterpretation.
Attachment to Crinolds.
The adherence of gasteropods of the genus under consideration to fossil crinoids was at first thought to furnish conclusive evidence of the carnivorous habits of the Crinoidea  and inasmuch as it was at that time considered that the aperture in the vault was the mouth this explanation seemed very plausible.
Consequently the conclusion was very naturally reached that the criuoid when it perished was in the act of devouring the raollusk.
jNIeek and Worthen appear to be the first to question the prevalent opinions regarding the intimate association of crinoid and gasteropod  and to suggest that the mollusk was in all probability stationed on the echinoderm for a protracted period perhaps even for the greater portion of its life.
But notwithstanding the fact that the univalve was almost invariably situated over the ventral aperture and that this opening was recognized as the anus these writers do not seem to entertain for a moment the idea that the gasteropod may have been nourished upon the refuse matter from the crinoid.
The latter view more recently has been preferred by Wachsmuth and is now favorably received by other paleontologists.
In every instance of the several hundred specimens lately examined the calyptnean covers the anal opening of the crinoid  and so far as observable it is always the anterior portion of the molluscan shell that is directed toward the vault aperture.
In those examples where the shell has been removed its impression made on the ventral surface shows that the anterior margin of the peristome was at the edge of the opening in the dome  a .position that would have brought the mouth of the mollusk directly over the anus of the crinoid.
From an examination of the concentric markings made by the molluscan shell on the vaults of Strotocrinus Plate II fig.
7 and some other genera it appears that the forward end of the Capulus was always stationary at the margin of the dome opening  and that as the growth of the shell continued the posterior portion was removed farther and farther from the ventral aperture of the crinoid.
The food of recent crinoids consists chiefly of animalcules and microscopic plants and the living Calyptrseidse subsist on food of a similar nature.
From analogy it might be inferred that the food of fossil crinoids and mollusks must have been like their modern representatives.
So far as the echinoderms are concerned there seems 1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1868 p. 340 e se.
to be no serious objections to this inference.
But with the univalves their position throuyh life indicates that their sustenance was in great part at least of a somewhat different character.
The anatomy of the crinoid and the position of the molluscan shell are not in accord with the supposition that the calyptnean may in anv way have been nourished on the food of the crinoid.
This woiiUl imly that the gasteropod was parasitic in its habits a view wliich though held by most writers does not appear to be structurally substantiated.
While no doubt the Capulus derived the greater part of its food from excrementitious matter nourishment from other sources may also have been obtained and in all probability it was very similar to that of the crinoids and the living Calyptrajida.
Furthermore there does not seem to be the slightest indication that the crinoid was in any manner inconvenienced by the attachment of the gasteropod except perhaps in a few cases where the molluscan shell had encircled the posteriolateral arms Avhich were in consequence slightly pressed outward.
The only really noticeable effect of the presence of Capulus on the crinoid is a comparatively shallow depression or groove on some of the vault plates  marking the position of the shell lip  though in the majority of specimens even this feature is not well pronounced Plate II figs.
6 and 7.
There are no grounds for the view advanced by TrautschohP in regard to Cromyocrinus stipe.i'Trauts.
and its adhering Capttlus parasiticus Tvsxnts.
from the loAver Carbonic of Russia.
He says  Es ist nicht unmoglich dass der oben beschriebene cylindrische Processus der Analplatten zum Schutz gegeu diese Verfolger des V. simjlex aufgebaut ist.
The  cylindrical jDrocess here referred to is manifestly a ventral sac and therefore was not caused by the presence of the gasteropod.
Illustrative Examples.
In some crinoids as Gilbertsocrinus the plates of the vault are more or less convex or nodose.
This nodosity of the ventral plates reaches a high development in such forms as G. tuberosue Lyon and Casseday from Crawfordsville Indiana.
Nearly onehalf of the known individuals of this species have a gasteropod adhering.
The specimens illustrate well the adaptation of the apertural margin of the shell to the irregularities of the crinoid al surface for it is clearly observable as first pointed out by Ieek and Worthen that the contact of the gasteropod shell and crinoid is not the result of accidental pressure but that the moUusk 1 Die Kalkbriiche von Mjatsclikowa p. IIS.
adhered to the surface of the crinoid for a considerable period as is shown by the sinuosities of the peristome corresponding exactly to the inequalities of the surface beneath.
In young shells the sinuosities of the apertural margin are comparatively much more pronounced than in older individuals.
Many of the latter exhibit much irregularity in the lines of growth which might at first appear to be due to a change of station but closer inspection shows that this is not the case.
When the plates of the crinoidal vault are nodose as in Gilbertsoerinus tuberosus the lines of growth in adult shells contrary to the more usual manner among gasteropods generally are far from being even approximately parallel to one another  and in the lip of the shell a sinus caused by a nodose plate at one period of growth may be represented in the next by a projecting lobe which extended into a deep depression between the nodes of two contiguous plates.
In considering the structural peculiarities of the calyptrtean shell three features  the general form the configuration of the aperture and the surface markings  appear to have been susceptible of considerable modification as the result of the sedentary habits of the mollusk.
An examination of a large series of certain species of Capulus reveals the fact that the variant tendency in all three of these particulars is much greater than might be supposed  and when the attachment of these gasteropods to foreign bodies is taken into consideration the causes for such varietal development become manifest.
It has been shown that the mollusk doubtless remained fixed throughout a greater portion of life and that the surface upon which it first settled determined in great part both the form of the shell and the shape of its aperture.
When the surface of attachment was flat as in the vaults of Gilbertsoerinus and Stroiocrinus the molluscan shell was greatly depressed and the peristome ample  but when the foreign body was strongly convex the shell was more conical with a comparatively much smaller aperture.
It has been stated elsewhere that in regard to the second of the three variant features observable in the calyptraan shell the margin of the peristome partakes of all the inequalities of the surface to which the gasteropod adheres.
Few of the species attached to crinoids may be said to have true surface ornamentation for the longitudinal folds or jilications in the shell are in many cases due chiefly to the character of the surface of attachment.
In some specimens of Capulus injundibulum M.  W. there have been noticed in addition to the undefinedlonffitiidinal folds several series of small couspicuous nodes but these in all examples seem to result from the peculiar nodose ornamentation of Platycrimis hemisphericus with which the univalves are associated.
It appears then  1 that some if not the majority of the ancient Capuli were stationary during life  2 that the nourishment of many of these sedentary gasteropods was derived in great part at least from the excrementitious matter from crinoids  and 3 that the form of the peristome and its marginal configuration being dependent upon the surface of attachment have small value as characters for specific distinction.
The Carbonic species of Capulus in which sedentary habits are positively known from the attachment of the gasteropods to echinoderms together with the various species of crinoids intimately associated are given in the accompanying synoptical table page 158.
Range of Variability.
Among modern gasteropods attention of late has been called frequently to the variation in the form of the shell as the result of differences in the local conditions of station.
In the extension of this inquiry to fossil groups many difficulties are met with among which the most formidable perhaps is the inability to obtain enough material for an adequate consideration of the subject.
Usually the shells of any one species are not abundant locally nor is the representation from localities more or less widely separated geographically sufficient to permit of satisfactory comparisons.
Lately Capulus has unexpectedly furnished a very interesting series illustrating the range of variation in several species.
The comparison is perhaps most striking in the projection of ten specimens of Capulus equilateralis as recently  graphically represented.
The case referred to is only a single one of many to be found among the raollusca.
It is very significant in its bearing upon the true basis of species  and indicates plainly that in attempting to separate specimens specifically too much stress should not be jlaced upon individual characters.
Other Causes of Variation.
In connection with variation of species it is of great interest to note the apparent effect of gravitation in altering the form of some gasteropod shells.
This phase can be more satisfactorily considered in Capulus equilateralis and C. infundihulum than in most other species because w'hen attached to the vaults of 1 Variation exhibited by a Carbonic Gasteropod Am.
Geol. vol.
Ill June 1889.
158 proceedings of the academy of 1890.
Synoptical Table of Crinoids and Associated Capull Crinoids.
2  2 2 IV5 2 s s cc d 'C eo  2  55     . o d O CO J 5D 5 Si  CD  C C3  CJ  cf Gilbertsocrinus tuberosus.
Gilbertsocrinus typus.
Actinocrinus verrucosus.
Physetocrinus ventricosus.
Strotocrinus regalis.
Dorycrinus immahirus.
Agaricocrinus americanus.
Eucladocrimis millebrachiatus.
Arthroacaniha p'undobrachiata.
Pterotocvimis acutiis.
Pterotocrinus depressus.
Pterotocrinus bifurcatus.
Poteriocrinus coceinus.
Platycrinus hemisphericus.
Platycrinus pileijormis.
Acrocrinus shumardi.
Cromyoerinus simplex.
Marsupiocrinus ccelatus.
Melocrinus globosus.
Pentremifes godoni.
crinoids the station of each individual is definitely known.
As stated already the firstofthese formsgenerally rests on flatvaulted crinoids  while the second connnonly adheres laterally to such echinoderms as Platycrinns hem isphericus.
Cajmlus eqmlatercd'is when occupying the same position is pendant the apex of the shell being directed downward instead of in the opposite direction as when resting on the ventral surface of such species as Gilbertsocrimis.
The shell thus pendant exhibits a decided tendency to straighten or uncoil consequently becoming longer the apex freeing itself completely from the body whorl.
In comparison therefore with a representative example of C. equilateralis those shells resting on flat eriuoidal vaults are very much depressed the aperture proportionally broader and the spire more closely coiled.
Those individuals attached laterally to crinoids have a tendency to become more conical the aperture being relatively smaller while the spire is entirely free from the last volution and the apex often extends to a considerable distance beyond the posterior margin of the aperture.
On the other hand Capulus infundihulum is commonly a mure or less elongate conic shell.
AVhen attached to Platycrinus it often assumes a very different aspect.
As growth proceeds the posterior side becomes relatively shorter the apex slightly curved backwards and not unfrequently there is a marked tendency toward a strongly arcuate form.
II.
Geographic and Geologhc Distribution.
General Considerations.
The Calyptrteidre are widely distributed both in space and time.
The earliest appearance of this group of gasteropoda is in the Calciferous strata of the Lower Silurian.
From this time onward its development is rather rajDid and attains a considerable expansion in the upper paleozoic where in numerical representation size and variety of form it is rather remarkable.
There is then a gradual and general decline toward the close of the paleozoic.
The ancient Capuli are confined chiefly to Europe and North America though two forms have been described from the Carbonic rocks of Australia.
During Silurian and Devonian times New York seems to have been the great center of the development of this group  while in the interior of the American continent these gasteropods did not become common until the beginning of the Carbonic.
Range of American Species.
Relative to the geographic and geologic distribution of the American species of Capulus during Carbonic times the results thus far reached have been merely suggestive.
In other zoological groups the evidence has been much more satisfactory of a reasonable coordination of the vertical and horizontal ranges of the various species especially in the Carbonic strata of the Iississippi basin.
In general the question of geographical distribution during geological time has appeared to elicit but little attention partly perhaps by reason of the many difficulties encountered in such investigations  and partly on account of insufficient material for intelligent comparisons.
It is now known that many species though perhaps originally described under seveial different names have a much wider geographical and geological distribution than has been supposed.
Several of these species have already been indicated   and it is certain that an extended study of the forms belonging to the various zoological groups from diverse horizons and from localities widely separated geographically would be productive of many important results in the elimination of a large number of now recognized species thereby placing paleontological science on a much firmer basis for more accurate deductions and more suggestive conclusions relative to the true status of ancient biological phenomena.
The long period of comparative quietness during the deposition of the Carbonic rocks of the Mississppi basin and the concomitant more or less undisturbed conditions of environment thus imposed Avere particularly favorable to a wide geographic dispersion of the various species and to their persistency through long periods of time.
The majority of the species of Capulus appear to be more or less widely distributed in space especially such forms as C. acutirostris C. parvus C. eqmlateralis and others.
The Kinderhook forms of the genus are on the whole extremely unsatisfactory for systematic determination since the most of them are merely internal casts.
They form however an important feature of the fauna inclosed in these rocks.
The Burlington and Keokuk species are very closely related and in part extend through both epochs after which the genus is of rare occurrence in the continental interior.
It is of considerable interest to note that this numerical reduction after the close of the Keokuk was accompanied by a marked depauperization of the individuals which struggled through to the end of the Paleozoic.
Through all the St. Louis and Kaskaskia Coal Measures the species Avithout exception are diminutive.
The C. acutirostris of the St. Louis became reduced to 1 Keyes Proc.
Acad.
Nat.Sci.
Phila. July 31 1888. nearly onelialf the size it possessed in the Keokuk notwithstanding the fact that this species had perhaps a wider geographical range than any other congeneric form occurring within the Mississippi basin and was therefore better adapted to preserve its full vigor at least in some parts of its distribution.
The changes in the broad mediterranean sea that once spread over the interior of North America have been referred to elsewhere' in connection with the striking structural features of the crinoids of the Carbonic period and will also be considered in detail in another place.
Stratigraphical Catalogue.
carbonic.
Lower Carbonic.
Capulus piso Walcott.
occidens Walcott.
Kinderhook Beds.
Capulus formosus Keyes.
lodiensis Meek.
parcdius White  Whitfield.
subpiicatus Meek  Worthen.
corniiformis Winchell.
haliotoides Meek  Worthen.
Burlington Limestone.
Capulus biserialis Hall.
cyrtolites McChesney.
equilateral is Hall.
fissurella Hall.
infundibulum Meek  Worthen.
latus Keyes.
obliquus Keyes.
quincyensis McChesney.
tribulosus White.
Keokuk Shales and Limestones.
Capulus acxdirostris Hall.
equilateralis Hall.
fissurella Hall.
1 Keyes  Genesis of the Actinociinidae Am.
Nat. vol.
XXIV p. 243 ft seq.
1890.
12 Capulus infundibuhim Meek  Worthen.
sulaatinus Keyes.
St. Louis Limestone.
Capulus acutirostris Hall.
Kaskaskia Limestone.
Capulus chesterensis Meek and Worthen.
ovalis Stevens.
Upper Carbonic.
Lower Coal Measures.
Capulus sjyinigei'us Worthen.
Upper Coal Measures.
Capulus jKirvtisSwaWow.
III.
Descriptions of Species.
Generic Diagnosis.
Shell depressed subglobose or obliquely subconic  body whorl very large.
Aperture ample expanded  labrum more or less sinuous inner lip not aiichylosed to the spire.
Surface glabrate plicate or sometimes spiniferous  lines of growth often unibricate.
The shells which have been referred to Platyceras present a manifold variety of forms.
It is therefore not improbable that a fuller Bxamiuation and comparison of all the known species will demand a somewhat diiferent arrangement and subdivision of the group than that now existing.
In this .section the shell presents few salient characters for consideration.
As already stated it is often with extreme difficulty that the forms of this group can be satisfactorily separated from certain varieties of Platystoma and various genera of Patelloid shells.
In general however the test of Cajmlus is coiled subspiral arcuate or subconic with a relatively small spire and an immense rapidly expanding body whorl while the surface is usually without ornamentation.
The large majority of the species of this group possesses tough massive shells which are generally therefore in a much better state of preservation than most of the associated molluscan remains.
3fuscular Scars.
The internal scars so prominent in the shells of living Cajndus and modern allied genera are seldom observable in paleozoic forms.
Hence having never noticed in individuals of the latter the peculiar horseshoe shaped impressions Hall  assigns this 1 12th Ann.
Reg.
Rep. 1859 p. 16. as tlie only reason for regarding Capuhis and Platyeeras as distinct genera.
Since the time that the American author first expressed this opinion a sufficient number of fossil examples have been found to indicate clearly the real nature of these scars.
A careful comparison shows that they are not very different from those of typical Capuli though considerable variation is noticeable in the several forms and even in shells of the same species.
Extended comparisons do not confirm the recent statement of M. Ghlert  who thus remarks   Sur les monies internes des especes que nous publions nous avons egalement observe des impressions musculaires qui tout en presentant certaines analogies avec celles des Capulus recents montrent neanmoins des caracteres distincts suffisants pour justifier la creation du genre paleozoique que avait ete prevu par Conrad Phillips et Hall.
As exhibited in C. infundibulum and some other species the muscular scars consist of a transversely elliptic impression on each side connected by a narrow band traversing the posterior side of the shell.
In adult examples the scars are situated about onefourth the distance from the apertural margin to the apex.
In some excellent internal casts of Capulus protei Qilhlert from the lower Devonic of Mayenne the muscular impressions are somewhat different from those of congeneric species from America.
The scar on the right side is comparatively large oval and well defined  a narrow sinuous band passes around the spire posteriorly and terminates on the left side in an enlarged scar similar to but much smaller than that on the right.
In some specimens the linear band does not appear to be perfectly continuous from one side to the other.
Capulus occidens Walcott.
Platyeeras occidens Walcott 1884.
Pala.
Eureka Dist. p. 254 pi.
xxiv figs.
99a.
Capulus occidens Kfyes 1890.
Am.
Geol.vol.
V. Shell small composed of about one and onehalf volutions the last rapidly expanding  spire minute  body whorl oblique rather sharply rounded dorsally.
Aperture large irregularly triangular  labrum sharj sinuous.
Surface marked by numerous lines of growth  and apparently by a few small undefined longitudinal folds.
Horizon and locality.
Lower Carbonic Eureka District Nevada.
This species appears to be more closely related to C. cyrtolites Mch. from the Burlington limestone than to any other congeneric form of the INIississippi basin.
The apex however is more closely 1 Bui.
Soc.
geol.
de France 3 t. XI p. 605. coiled than in that species and the body whorl is much more expanded.
Capulus 
piso Walcott.
Plalyccras piso Walcott 1884.
False.
Eureka Dist. p. 254 pi.
xxiv figs.
7 7a 7b.
Shell below medium size composed of about two looselycoiled volutions gradually expanding  bodywhorl broadly rounded and for the most part free from the spire which is rather small  several small obscure longitudinal folds are discernible toward the aperture.
The latter is subcircular or subovate  lip sinuous.
Surface exhibiting only numerous fine lines of growth.
Horizon and locality.
Lower Carbonic  Eureka District Nevada.
There is some doubt as to the correct generic reference of this species.
The shell appears to differ in several important particulars from Capulus and it is not improbable that eventually this form will be placed elsewhere.
Capulus formosus Keyes.
Plate 11 fig.
8.
Platvceras fonnosum Keyes 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical SciC vol.
xxv p. 242 figs.
8 and 9.
Reprint p. 14.
Capulus fojmosiis Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geol. vol.
V. Shell arcuate slightly oblique enlarging rather rapidly to the ample irregularly pentalobate aperture posterior side rather short and concave  lateral slopes nearly straight.
Apex obtuse.
Surface marked by five broad welldefined longitudinal plications each of which is composed of several smaller folds  these are crossed by sinuous lines of growth.
Horizon and locality Kinderhook beds  Marshall county Iowa.
The two specimens of this species found are both attached to the vaults of specimens of Dorycrinus immaturus W.  Spr.
described in the eighth volume of the Illinois Geological Survey.
This species resembles in some respects C. paralius W.  W. but is simply arcuate instead of being coiled.
Capulus cornuformis Winchell.
Plate II fig.
5.
Platyceras conutforme A. Winchell 1863.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1863 p. 18.
Platyceras cornuforme Keyes 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1889 p. 294.
Shell small arcuate forming about half a volution rapidly expanding  young specimens often broadly and obtusely subcarinate along the dorsum.
Aperture irregularly oval or subcircular  margin sinuous.
Surface glabrate  lines of growth scarcely discernible.
Horizon and localities.
Kinderhook beds  Burlington Iowa  and Lodi Ohio.
This is one of the smallest of the Lower Carbonic species of the genus  but may have attained a larger size than the type specimen indicates.
A large form from Lodi Ohio labeled Platyceras cornuforme by Meek seems to be more closely related to C. paralius W.  W. than with species in question.
Capulus haliotoides Meek  Worthen.
Platyceras haliotoides Meek cS Worthen 1S6G.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. July 1866 p. 264.
Platyceras haliotoides'Wtt ik.r 1868.
Gaol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
Ill p. 458 pi.
xiv figs.
3a 3b.
Shell below medium size very obliquely ovate forming about two very rapidly expanding volutions which are contiguous except near the apertural margin  whorls rather compressed somewhat sharply rounded along the periphery.
Spire slightly elevated above the level of the body whorl.
Aperture ample oval  labrum sinuous.
Surface marked by undulating lines of growth and often by a few low obscurely defined ridges.
Horizon and localities.
Kinderhook beds  Richfield and Newark Ohio.
This form is commonly found only as internal casts and the surface markings are therefore rarely preserved.
The species usually does not have the labrum touching the spire nor the latter as closely coiled as is shown in the figures of IVIeek  Worthen.
Capulus lodiensis Meek.
Platyceras iOrthonychia lodiense Meek 1871.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1871 p. 170.
Platyceras Orthonyckia lodiense Meek 187.5.
Geol.
Sur.
Ohio Pals.
 vol.
II p. 313 pi.
xiii figs la lb.
Shell lelow medium size obliquely conic anterior slope moderately convex lateral slopes straight or very slightly concave posterior slope concave  a narrow rounded ridge extends anteriorly from near the apex to the labrum.
Aperture subelliptic  margin somewhat sinuous.
Surface apparently marked by fine lines of growth only.
Horizon and localiixj.
Kinderhook beds  Lodi Ohio.
Capulus lodiensis seems to be very closely related to C. suhplicatus with which it should perhaps be regarded as synonymous  the chief difference being simply the more plicate character of the latter.
It has been elsewhere shown that the plications are extremely variable and are dependent largely upon the accidental station of the mollnsk.
The type specimen is imbedded in a hard matrix  only the interior of the shell being exposed to view.
Meek's figures were made from plaster casts of the interior so that no surface markings are discernible.
Capulus paralius AVhite  Whitfield.
Plate IT figs la lb.
Platyceras paralmvi White  Whitfield 186'2.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
History vol.
V'lII p. 303.
Platyceras paralium Keyes 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1889 p. 294.
Capulus paralius Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geol. vol.
V. Shell small forming about two rapidly expanding volutions which are not contiguous  apical portions minute slender laterally compressed subangular along the dorsum more or less distinctly plicate.
Aperture irregularly pentagonal  labrum sharp deeply sinuous or somewhat serrate.
Surface marked by few subimbricate lines of growth.
Horizon and localities.
Kinderhook beds  Des Moines and iVIarshall counties Iowa  Lodi Ohio.
The apical portion of the shell is more slender and extended than the type would indicate from a casual examination.
The smaller specimen figured Plate II fig.
lb shows the spire perfectly preserved.
The type Plate II fig.
la has the longitudinal folds much more prominent than is apparent in a representative specimen of the species.
In some examples the plications are hardly noticeable.
This species is widely distributed geographically ranging froniLe Grand in central Iowa to the southeastern part of the State and thence to Ohio.
Capulus subplicatus Meek  Worthen.
Platyceras Orihonyciia subplicatum Meek  Worthen 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1866 p. 265.
Platyceras Ortkonychia subplicatum Meek  Worthen 1868.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
Ill p. 457 pi.
XIV figs.
4a 4b 4c.
Shell small depressed obliquely conical  anterior slope somewhat convex  posterior and lateral slopes slightly concave or straight  several large broad undefined plications extend from the apertural margin nearly twothirds the distance to the ajex.
Aperture subcircular.
Horizon and locality.
Kinderhook beds  Richfield Ohio.
This species is known only from natural casts.
The specimens exhibit well the muscular scars which are described as  obliquely elongated subovate or sublunate and vertically striated placed a little above the middle of each side and connected by a linear band passing around behind.
Capulus cyrtolites McChesney.
Plate II fig.
2.
Ptatyceras cyrtolites McChesney 1800.
Desc.
New Foss.
Pula.
Rocks Western States p. 71.
Platyceras cyrtolites Keyes 1889.
Froc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Pliila. 1889 p. 288.
Capiiliis cyrtolites Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geol. vol.
V. Shell small slender arched  composed of about one volution  dorsally subangular with a broad flattened area on each side  posteriorly somewhat plicate.
Apical portion small incurved sometimes enrolled or contiguous.
Aperture moderately large subquadrangular lip sharp sinuous.
Surface marked only by strong undulating lines of growth which are often somewhat imbricated.
Horizon and localities.
Burlington limestone  Burlington Iowa  and Calhoun county Illinois.
This species appears to be genetically related to C acutirostris Hall from the Keokuk and eventually the two forms may prove identical.
C. cyrtolites is from the upper division of the Burlington limestone and differs very essentially from any known congeneric species from the same horizon.
Capulus biserialis Hall.
Platyceras biserialis Hall 1859.
Geol.
of Iowa vol.
I pt.
ii Suppl. p. 90.
Platyceras biserialis Meek  Worthen 1868.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
Ill p. 509. pi.
XV figs.
3a 3b.
Capulus biserialis Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geol. vol.
V. Shell rather below medium size somewhat ovate subspiral forming slightly more than one volution regularly incurved.
Aperture broadly oval  margin rather sharp undulating with a broad rounded sinus anteriorly.
The expanded anterior portion of the shell marked on each side by a longitudinal row of long conspicuous hollow spines about six in number.
Surface smooth showing numerous fine sinuous lines of growth.
Horizon and locality.
Burlington limestone  Quincy Illinois.
A marked characteristic of this form and also of C. tribulosns White is that the tubular spines are arranged in longitudinal rows while in the few other American spinebearing Capuli there is no regularity in the distribution of the spinous process.
The spines are easily broken and hence are seldom preserved to their full length  often they are scarcely noticeable.
Capulus latus Keyes.
Platyceraslahtin Keyes 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc vol XXV p. 242 figs.
10 11.
Reprint. p.
14.
Platyccras latum Keyes 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Philadelphia 1889 p. 290.
Capulus latus Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geol. vol.
V. Shell large depressed foniiiiig about one and onehalf volutions very rapidly expanding from the apex to the aperture lut enlarging transversely much more.
than dorsoventrally  posterior side comparatively very short.
Apex small incurved but free from the body of the shell and nearly in the same plane as the general curvature.
Aperture very large campanulate transversely elliptic  lip attenuate and slightly sinuous.
Surface marked toward the aperture by a few small nearly obsolete folds and by numerous sinuous lines of growth.
Horizon and locality.
Burlington limestone  Burlington Iowa.
This species is from the white compact layers of the upper division of the Burlington beds.
The specimens like the majority of fossils from this stratum are usually more or less exfoliated.
Capulus obliquus Keyes.
Plate II fig.
.
Platyccras obliqimni Keyes 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc vol.
xxv p. 241 figs.
12 13.
Reprint. p.
13.
Platyceras obliqimm Keyes 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1889 p. 290 Capulus obliquus Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geol. vol.
V. Shell of medium size irregularly oblong subspiral forming one volution  regularly enlarging slightly more rapidly transversely than in the opposite direction to the aperture.
Apex large obtuse ftir removed from the body of the sliell which is broadly arcuate  very noticeably oblique to the plane of general curvature in the body of the shell.
Aperture irregularly quadrangular in outline  margin sharp and more or less sinuous.
Surface marked by several undefined longitudinal plications which sometimes form longitudinal series of obscure nodes  these are crossed by numerous sinuous often subimbricated lines of growth.
Horizon and locality.
Burlington limestone  Burlington Iowa.
This species is a transition between the socalled  Orthonychia and  Platyceras groups  and is one of the few of this type occurring in the American Carbonic.
Capulus quinoyensis McChesney.
Plate II fig.
9.
Platvceras quincyense McChesney 1861.
Desc.
New Foss.
Palte.
Rocks West.
States p. 90.
Platyceras juincyense McChesney 1867.
Trans.
Chicago Acad.
Sci. vol.
I p. 49 pi.
vi figs.
6a 6b.
Platyceras Ortkonychia cjuincyense Meek  Worthen 1868.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
Ill p. 510 pi.
XV figs.
5a 5b.
Platyceras quincvense Keyes 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1889 p. 290.
Capiilus quincyoisis Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geol. vol.
V. Shell of medium size broadly conical often more or le.ss elongated  expanding very rapidly and regularly from the central or subcentral apex to the aperture.
Usually five broad rounded ridges extend from near the apex to the aperture which is consequently Biore or less prominently quinquelobate  the ridges are not unfrequently further divided into two or more smaller folds.
Lip sharp sinuous.
Surface marked by subimbricating lines of growth and also by numerous small often undefined longitudinal co.sta3 which do not appear in the cast.
Horizon and localities.
Burlington limestone  Burlington Iowa  and Quincy Illinois.
The specimens described by rcChesney and by Meek and Worthen were either exfoliated examples or internal casts  and this is the condition in which the species is usually found.
Owing to the peculiar state of pre.servation the shells quickly crumble away in handling leaving only the internal casts but the distinctive quinquelobate character always renders them easily recognizable.
In the examples figured ly McChesney and also by Meek and Worthen the apices were wanting but the individuals were not as imperfect as was supposed.
During the earlier periods of their growth many of the shells of C. quincyensis were very broad but when attaining about onethird their maximum size the aperture abruptly became relatively smaller leaving a sharp subangular ridge around the shell parallel to the apertural margin.
This abrupt decrease in the expansion of the shell impax'ts to the natural internal casts the appearance of an apical truncation or fracture.
In its attachment to paleozoic crinoids the onl' forms with which C. quincyensis has thus far been found associated is Physetocvinus ventricosus Hall a species having a rather depressed hemispherical dome in which the ventral opening has a subcentral location.
The dome plates are small and numerous and frequently studded with small prominent tubercles or subspinous processes which impart to the gasteropod shell series of minute corrugations extending over each of the larger folds.
Capulus tribulosus White.
Plate II figs.
4a 4b.
Fafyccnis trilnilosum White 1883.
12th Ann.
Rep. U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Ter. pt.
I p. 186 pi.
XLI figs.
6a 6b.
Platyceras trihulosiim Keyes 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1889 p. 290.
Capulus tribulosus Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geol. vol.
V. Shell rather below medium size subspiral rather slendei' forming about one volution  regularly expanding to the aperture.
Apex incurved far removed from the body of the shell.
Aperture irregularly oval usually more or less broadly lobed posteriorly  lip sharp irregular with usually a deep sinus anteriorly.
Surface glabrate but exhibiting numerous fine closely arranged lines of growth  also marked by three longitudinal series of long tubular spines extending from the apertural margin about threefourths the distance to the apex.
Of these spiniferous rows two are disposed laterally one on each side and the third centrally and dorsally.
Horizon and locality.
Burlington limestone Burlington Iowa.
This is one of the few spiniferous species belonging to the genus Capulus  and only two others of similar character occur in the American Carbonic rocks.
It appears to be closely allied to C. biserialis Hall and may eventually prove identical with that form from which it apparently differs only in having three instead of two rows of spines.
Thus far it has been noted only in the upper division of the Burlington limestone when it occurs in the thin sandyclay partings associated with delicate and beautifully preserved bryozoa.
The type specimen is not a characteristic representative of the species being in several particulars quite abnormal.
Capulus acutirostris Hall.
Capulus acutirostris Hall 1856.
Trans.
Albany Institute vol.
IV p. 31.
Capulus acutirostris Hall 1858.
Geol.
of Iowa vol.
I pt ii p. 665 pi.
x.xiii figs 14a 14b.
Platyceras Capulus acutirostris McChesney 1860.
Desc.
New False.
Foss West.
Slates p. 71.
Platyceras uucuiii Meek  Woithen 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila.
1866 p 264.
Platyceras uncuin Meek  Worthen.
1873.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p 516 pi.
XVII fig.
1.
Platyceras acuti1ostrish.tdS'2.
Bui.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
I p 67.
Platyceras acutirostris Hall 1883.
Indiana Geol.
Rept.
for 1883 p. 370 pi XXXI figs.
1315.
Capulus acutirostris Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geol. vol.
V. Shell below medium size rather slender strongly arcuate forming from one to one and onehalf volutions  posterior side for some distance from the apertural margin nearly straight.
Sire laterally more or less compressed  sometimes small and short sometimes long attenuate simply incurved or enrolled.
Aperture oval or subcircular  margin tharp sinuous.
Surface marked by somewhat imbricating lines of growth and several obscurely defined longitudinal plications the anterior one being usually larger than the others and often forming a rominent subangular ridge.
Horizon and localities.
Keokuk limestones and shales  Warsaw and Nauvoo Illinois.
St. Louis limestone  Spurgeon Hill and Bloomington Indiana  Tuscumbia Alabama.
This form appears to have a geographically wide distribution  and it also presents considerable variation even within limited areas.
It was originally described from Spurgeon Hill Indiana and like all the founal remains of that locality is characteristically depauperate.
PlaUjceras uncum M.  AV.
seems to be identical with this species the imposed conditions of environment being more favorable to a normal development  and to the attainment of somewhat larger proportions.
Capulus equilateralis Hall.
Plate II fig.
11.
Platyceras equilatera Hall 1859.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I pt.
ii Supp. p. 89.
Platyce7as equilatera Meek  Worlhen 1873.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois. vol.
V p. 518 pi.
xvii fig.
2.
Platyceras equilateralis Miller 1877.
Cat.
Am.
Palae.
Foss. p. 153.
Platyceras equilatera White 18S0.
Indiana Geol.
Rept.
for 1880 p. 514 pi.
vii fig.
5.
Platyceras equilateruin Keyes 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc vol.
xxv p. 236 figs.
2 and 3.
Platyceras equilateruin Keyes 1889.
Am.
Geologist vol.
Ill p. 331.
Platyceras equilateruin Keyes 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1889 p 288.
Capulus equilateralis ieyts 1890.
Am.
Geol. vol.
V. Shell medium but often attaining a large size  extremely variable hemispherical to oblique conical with incurved spire volutions one to two in number free or contiguous moderately enlarging for some distance from the apex and then rather abruptly and rapidly expanding.
Aperture very large broadly oval or often nearly circular  lip thin more or less undulating.
Surface smooth but toward the apertural margin exhibiting numerous often strongly imbricating sinuous lines of growth.
Frequently many small obscure longitudinal folds are also present.
Horizon and localities.
Keokuk limestone and shales  Keokuk and Bonaparte Iowa  Wai'saw and Niota Illinois  Crawfordsville Indiana.
Burlington limestone  Burlington Iowa.
This species seems to be one of the most ahundaut gasteropods of the Keokuk beds  especially at Crawfordsville Indiana where the conditions of environment during the deposition of the blue clayey shales of that locality wei'e uncommonly favorable to the development of this mollusk.
Some of the shells from the locality mentioned have very considerable measurements  height 45 mm.
 length along the dorsum 95 mm.
 breadth 60 mm.
Not only is the species under consideration variable in size but it is extremely so in form and in the configuration of the apertural margin.
Perhaps no Capulus in all the Carbonic presents so wide a range of variation as does this species.
Immature shells appear to be glabrate but as growth proceeded they became more and more rugose and imlricate.
The spire is as often contiguous as free and simply incurved  and in adult specimens it is relatively very small.
The longitudinal folds are not unfrequently very pronounced and being few in number impart a peculiar trilobate appearance to the shells  in other examjiles all traces of plications are wanting.
The extensive series of C. equilateralis from the Crawfordsville shales affords many interesting phases of the habits of these gasteropods hitherto not elsewhere presented in such an eminently satisfactory manner.
At this locality C. equilateralis is usually attached to the calyx of Gilbertsocrinus tuberosus Lyon  Casseday but the mollusk is not invariably associated with this particular species of crinoid as Meek  Worthen supposed.
A number of typical examples of the Capulus in question have leen observed adhering to Platijcrinus hemisphericus Meek  AVorthen plate II fig.
11 with which however is more commonly associated C. infimdibulum M.  W..
In Gilbertsocrinus the vault is relatively large nearly flat with the anal opening located midway lietween the center and margin.
In both G. tuberosus L.  C. from the Keokuk shales and G. tyjnis Hall from the Burlington limestone the ventral plates are convex or as in many specimens very nodose.
The growing margin of the gasteropod shell having adapted itself exactly to the irregularities of the surface of the crinoidal vault necessarily was always more or less deeply sinuous each sinus being produced by the nodosity of the vault plate in contact  while the small linguiform projection between two sinuses extended down between the nodes of two contiguous plates.
The extreme nonparallelism of the lines of growth so conspicuously evident in the shells of many ancient  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 335.
Capuli is thus capable of being traced and especially in those examples in which the nodosity of the dome plates of the crinoid have reached a high development.
This phenomenon of nonparallelisra of the lines of growth is not therefore indicative of a change in station of the gasteropod as has been suggested at various times.
It has been clearly shown elsewhere' that shells of C. equllateralis when adhering to flat surfiices are always very much depressed and have the aperture proportionately much more expanded than the average specimen while the spire is closely incurved even touching the body of the shell.
When the gasteropod is found attached to strongly convex surfaces or to the calyces of Platycrinus the shell enlarges less rapidly  and there is also a tendency in the apex to become free from the bodywhorl and even to completely uncoil often to such an extent as to approach closely some forms of the C. Injundlbultnn type.
Capulus fissurella Hall.
Platyceras fissurella Hall 1859.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
Ipt.
ii Supp. p. 90.
Platyceras fissurella Meek  Worthen 18T3.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 519 pi.
XVII fig.
4.
Platyceras fissurella Keyes 1889.
Pioc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1889 p. 289.
Capulus fissurella Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geologist vol.
V. Shell massive obliquely depressed conical enlarging rapidly to the aperture  from apex to margin straight or somewhat arcuate anteriorly slightly concave posteriorly.
Apex obtuse situated nearly over the posterior margin of the aperture which is ample oval or nearly circular  lip thick rounded very slightly sinuous.
Surface marked by numerous gently undulating somewhat irregular and often subimbricating lines of growth.
Occasionally there are obscure indications of small longitudinal folds.
Horizon and localities.
Keokuk limestone  Warsaw and Nauvoo Illinois.
Burlington limestone  Burlington Iowa.
The specific name of this form is very inappropriate having originated in a misconception on pai't of the author of the species as to the true nature of the apical perforation in the type specimen.
It has been clearly shown by Meek  Worthen that the aperture in the apex is not a natural opening but an accidental fracture in the shell.
Recently typical examples of C. fissurella have been found in the upper Burlington limestone thus adding another case in support of the view lately advanced that the faunas of the Keokuk and Bur1 Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc vol.
XXV p. 236.
 Keyes American Journ.
Sci. vol.
XXXVIII pp.
189193. lington limestones are much more intimately related biologically than had hitherto been generally regarded  and that many socalled Keokuk species are merely the subsequent genetic representatives of Burlington forms.
The validity of their distinction simply on account of occurring in differently named geological horizons cannot be sustained.
It is not to be supposed that the biologic sequence of two divisions as the Burlington and Keokuk so closely related stratigraphically and lithologically and deposited under identical quiet conditions should e so widely separated faunally as the described species from these limestones would indicate.
Capulus infundibulum Meek  AVorthen.
Plate II fig.
10.
Platyceras subrechitn Hall 1859.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
1 pt.
ii Supp. p. 89 not P.subrectum Hall 1859 for a New York specimen.
Platycems subrectum Hail 1860.
Twelfth Am.
Reg.
Rept.
Univ.
N. Y. p 18.
Not P. subrectuvi Hall 1859.
Platyceras infundibulum Meek  Worthen 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1866 p. 1266.
Platyceras infundibulum Meek  Worthen 1873.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 517 pi.
XVII fig.
3.
Platyceras infundibulutn Keyes 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc vol.
XXV p. 238 fig.
1.
Platyceras infundibuhan Keyes 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1889 p. 289.
Capulus infmdibuluvi Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geologist vol.
V. Shell more or less conical often somewhat oblique with usually many undefined longitudinal folds apical portions slender expanding regularly at first and then more rapidly.
Apex attenuated often slightly deflected toward the posterior side.
Surface smooth but toward the aperture marked by numerous undulating frequently imbricating lines of growth.
Horizon and localities.
Keokuk limestones and shales  Keokuk Iowa  Warsaw Illinois  Crawfordsville Indiana.
Burlington limestone  Burlington Iowa.
The most closely allied form associated with this species is C.fissurella Hall from which it is distinguished in being projort ionally more elongate while the apical part of the shell is characteristically slender.
Ordinarily the shell is more or less conspicuously plicate but the folds are for the most part narrow and usually irregular and broken.
For an elongated specimen Meek  AVorthen' have indicated the nume Jlatyceras extinct or  shond it prove distinct'' but the term 1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 266 1866. cannot be regaided as havingactually been proposed while the form itself is manifestly only an attenuated internal cast of C. infundibulum.
It however exhibits well the characteristic muscular impressions.
This species like C. equllateralis Hall with which it is usually associated occurs in the Burlington limestone and ranges through the Keokuk.
Its association with crinoids at Crawfordsville Indiana has been for the most part with Platycrinus hemisphericus M.  W.  while at Burlington it adheres to a structurally similar form Endadociinus mUlehrachlutus W. .
Spr.
The vault in the first species is very much elevated aid the anal opening is situated laterally between and slightly above two arm bases.
The dorsal cup is ornamented by numerous conspicuous rounded tubercles.
As the growing shell increased in size the pliant apertural margin encountered successively the different nodes which caused the lip at these points to deflect outward giving rise to variously shaped prominences on the shell  when the tubercles were arranged in regular rows there appeared a series of narrow nodular plications.
In many cases the gasteropod shell increased in size much faster than the echinoderm and the lip of the shell consequently often encompassed the twoposteriolateral arms and not unfrequently also the stem of the crinoid.
The result was two large deep sinuses in the anterior and one similar indentation in the posterior margin of the shell.
The effect of the tubercles was to impart a similar sinuous character to the entire margin hence the lip was always crenated during the latter part of the mollusk's existence.
The continual change in the nature of the surface upon which the gasteropod shell rested also interfered with the uniform and regular growth along the apertural margin and the lines of growth are consequently often strongly imbricated.
Capulus sulcatinus sp.
nov. Plate II figs.
12a 12b.
Shell of medium size obliquely subovate composed of two to two and onehalf rather closely coiled or contiguous volution.s enlarging rapidly toward the aperture.
Body Avhorl large and partly free from the small closely coiled spire  a broad rounded fold extends dorsally along the last whorl.
Aperture broadly obovate margin sharp undulating with a wide deeply rounded sinus anteriorly.
Surface marked by numerous well defined nearly parallel longitudinal ridges with broad rather shallow depressions between  lines of growth numerous extremelv sinuous.
Horizon and locality.
Keokuk shales  Crawfordsville Indiana.
This species occurs in the famous Crawfordsville crinoid beds associated with C. equilateralis and C. infundibulum both of which are common species of that locality.
It is one of the few regularly costate species of the genus and the only one of this character found in the Carbonic strata of America.
Capulus ovalis Stevens.
Acroculia ovalis Stevens 1858.
Am.
Jour.
Sci  2 vol.
xxv p. 261.
Platyceras laevigatum Meek  Wortlien 186C.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci  Phila. 1866 p. 263.
Not Acroculia hcvigata McCoy.
Shell very small subglobose  volutions about two an onehalf in number contiguous rather rapidly expanding but not campanulate  spire very small.
Aperture regularly subcircular or oval but frequently somewhat flattened laterally  lip sharp not sinuous.
Surface glabrate  but under the magnifier exhibiting fine regular lines of growth.
Horizon and localities.
Ka.skaskia limestone  Union and Randolph counties Illinois  St. Genevieve county Missouri.
Capulus ovalis is one of the smallest of the lower Carbonic Japuli having a height of only three to six millimeters and a maximum breadth of eight millimeters.
Capulus chesterensis Meek fe AVorthen.
Plate 11 tigs.
l.a 13b 13c 13d.
Platyceras  Orfionyciia chesterense Meek  Wortlien 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1866 p. 265.
Platyceras chesterense Keyes 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc vol.
XXV figs.
4 and 5.
Ci7j 7.Vf.w Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geologist vol.
V. Shell small obliquely conical with five nearly equidistant longitudinal furrows which alternate with broad flattened folds  expanding moderately to the aperture  usually more or less strongly arcuate sometimes forming nearly half of a volution thus bringing the apex above or even considerably beyond the posterior portion of the labrum.
Apex more or less attenuated but often blunt.
Aperture pentagonal or irregularly subcircular  lip thick rounded with five deep rounded sinuses.
Surface marked by numerous subimbricated broadly undulating lines of growth.
Horizon and localities.
Chester division of the Lower Carbonic  Chester and Pope counties Illinois  and Pulaski county Kentucky.
This little species is found almost invariably attached to the vault of crinoids  and Meek  Worthen report one adhering to the side oi Pentremites godoni DeFrance so as to entirely cover one of the pseudoambulacral fields and two intermediate areas.
The specimens from Kentucky are nearly all attached to Pterofocrinus  P. acutus Wetherby P. bifurcatns Weth. and P. depressns Weth.
In the first of these species the vault is very nuich elevated being nearly three times the height of the dorsal cup.
The first radial dome lates are produced into monstrous alate processes leaving only a small summit which is perforated for the anus.
The margin of the growing gasteropod shell has followed closely the surface in contact  and in the majority of examples when the summit of the crinoidal vault Avas not sufficiently extensive for the suppoit of the enlarging shell the apertural margin has been prolonged into the interradial depressions forming prominent rounded linguiform extensions  while the pi'otruding rounded upper edges of the alate domeplates of the crinoid have given rise to five deep broadly rounded sinuses in the lip of the molluscan shell.
The lines of growth in the shell are therefore extremely sinuous the undulations in the direction of the aperture being concave on the broad flattened folds and convex in the furrows.
In some siecimens the furrows and folds have their origin very near the apex  a fact which is suggestive that tlie form of the shell and the configuration of the apertural margin may not have been entirely dependent upon the immediate surface of contact  but from a long continued habit of adhering to a crinoid presenting such remarkable ventral features as Pterotocrinus the gasteropod gradually acquired after many generations a decided tendency toward the quinquelobate form which made itself manifest at an early period of the mollusk's existence and perhaps even in the latter part of the embryonic stage.
In order to bring the mouth over the ventral aperture of the crinoid and at the same time rest securely on the limited flattened summit at one side of which the anal opening was situated it was necessary for the gasteropod to have the anterior portion of the shell directed toward the posterior side of the crinoid  one of the few instances of the kind that has been noted for almost invariably the front of the gasteropod shell is diiected toward the anterior side of the echinoderm.
Capulus parvus Swallow.
Plate II figs.
14a 14b 14c.
Capidus paifus Swallow 1858.
Trans.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci. vol.
I p. 205.
Platyceras nedrascense Meek 1872.
U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Nebraska p. 227 pi.
iv .
15.
Platyceras nebrascense White 1875.
E.xpl.
W. 100 Merid. Vol.
IV p. 159 pi.
xii fig.
5.
13 Platyceras nebrascense White 1884.
Indiana Geol.
Rept.
for 1883 p. 159 p. xxxii figs.
15 and 16.
Capiihis pannis Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geologist vol.
V. Shell small broadly arcuate or obliquely recurved forming nearly one volution  regularly and rather rapidly expanding to the aperture.
Apex rather blunt  inclined or recurved to the right.
Aperture ample subovate lip sharp more or less regularly sinuous.
Surface nearly glabrate but under a glass showing numerous undulating lines of growth which are clearly visible nearly to the apex.
The shell is also marked sometimes by several almost obsolete longitudinal folds.
Horizon and localities.
Upper Coal Measures  Indiana Iowa Nebraska Kansas and New Mexico.
The small specimen figured plate II figs.
14a and 14b is considered the type of Swallow's species now in the museum of the University of Missouri.
A careful comparison shows the form described from Nebraska by Meek is only a more mature individual of C. parvus.
Since however Swallow's species was poorly defined and was never figured  and'as Meek was the first to give a clear dignosis of this form both by a full description and by good illustrations it is questionable whether Meek's name should not really be retained for the form Platyceras nebrascense having been almost universally applied to this species as occurring throughout the west.
Capulus spinigerus Worthen.
Platyceras spinigertts Worthen 1873.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 594 pi.
xviii fig.
4.
Capidus spinigerus Keyes 1890.
Am.
Geologist vol.
V. Shell rather small strongly arched  composed of le.ss than one volution  very rapidly expanding to the aperture.
Apex sharp scarcely incurved.
Aperture subovate  lip sinuous.
Surface niarked by many undulating often somewhat imbricated lines of growth and also by a few scattering spines  several low broadly rounded longitudinal ridges have their origin near the apex and extend to the aperture.
Horizon and locality.
Lower Coal Measures  Brighton Illinois.
This is one of the three spiniferous species of Capulus occurring in the Carbonic strata of America.
The other two are from the Burlington limestone and have the spines arranged in longitudinal series while in C. spinigerus the spines are scattered over the surface of the shell.
It is very probable that this form will prove to be identical with C. trigonalis of Stevens.
For the loan of type specimens and material sincere thanks are tendered Prof. G. C. Broadhead State University of Missouri  Dr. J. S. Newberry School of Mines Columbia College New York City  Mr. Charles D. Walcott U. S. Geological Survey Washington D. C.  Dr. Alexander Winchell University of Michigan Ann Arbor Mr. E. O. Ulrich Newport Ky.  and especially Messrs. Oharles Wachmuth and Frank Springer.
IV.
Spurious and Doubtful Species of Carbonic Capuli.
Platyceras bivolve White  Whitfield.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
VIII p. 302.
1862.
A careful examination of the type specimen appears to indicate that this form is a true Platystoma and it has accordingly been transferred to that genus.
Though somewhat resembling the young specimens of Platyceras ventricosuin Conrad as remarked by White and Whitfield it differs very essentially from that form.
The spire is much more elevated being on a level or even above the surface of the body whorl  while the inner lip is much thickened reflexed and anchylosed to the spire.
Platystoma bivolve W.  W. has almost an exact counterpart among some forms of the upper Siluric species Platystoma niagarense Hall from the Waldron Indiana shales.
Platyceras cajyax K. Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
1888 p.
241.
Probably synonymous with C. equilateralis Hall.
Platyceras capulus Hall.
Geol.
Sur.
Iowa vol.
I pt.
ii Supp. p.
91.1859.
If recent identifications have been correct this species does not belong to the genus Capulus.
Platyceras extinctor Meek  Worthen.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 266 1866.
Never formally proposed.
It is evidently only an elongated variety of Capulus infundibulum M.  W..
Platyceras Icevlgatum Meek  Worthen.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1866 p.
263.
Synonym of Capulus ovalis Stevens.
The name was preoccupied by McCoy.
Platyceras nebrascense Meek.
U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Nebraska 1872 p.
227.
Only a more mature individual of Capulus parvus Swallow.
Platyceras pabulocrinus Owen.
Kept.
Geol.
Sur.
Indiana p. 364 1862.
Proposed for a form similar to C. infundibulum M.  W. but vithout description.
Platyceras reversum Hall.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I pt.
ii Supp. p. 91 1859.
Manifestly is not a Capulus.
1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1889 p. 293.
Platyceras subrectum Hall.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I pt.
ii Suppl. p. 89 1859.
Preoccupied by Hall for an Upper Helderberg form.
Synonym of C. infimdlbulum Meek  Worthen.
Platyceras tortum Meek.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1871 p.
171.
This species does not belong to Capulus.
The general form the flattened character of the upper half of the body whorl the obtuse angularity toward the sutural line and the sei'ies of distinct parallel costpe running transversely over the volutions as w'ell exhibited in the type specimens all indicate that the species is actually a partially uncoiled Naticopsis probably not far removed from N. ventricosa N.  P. A similar tendency in the whorls to become separated is admirably shown in Naticopsis gigantea H.  W. from the Devonic  and also in Platystoma niagarense Hall from the upper Siluric.
The shell of Naticopsis torta Meek is extremely thin and fragile while the lines of growth are regularly and evenly curved both of which characters are seldom exhibited in the ancient Capuli.
Capulus triplicatus Swallow.
Trans.
St. Louis Academy Sci. vol.
I p. 205 1858.
Too imperfect for description.
Apparently does not even belong to the Gasterojoda.
Probably a valve of a Myalina 
Platyceras uncum Meek  Worthen.
Pioc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1866 p.
264.
Synonym of Capulus acutirostris Hall.
Of the five following species nothing is known except the original descriptions which are very meager and are unaccompanied by figures.
They are apparently identical with species already described  but inasmuch as authentic specimens have not been examined their synonymy will not here be considered.
They are  Platyceras hertzeri Winchell Platijceras vomerium Winchell P. quincuxense McChesney P. hickmansense McChesney and Acroculia trigonalis Stevens.
Explanation of Plate II.
Fig.
1.
Capulus par alius W.  W. la.
Lateral view of type specimen Museum of University of Michigan lb.
A younger individual.
Fig.
2.
Capulus cyriolites McC.
Lateral aspect.
Fig.
3.
Capulus obliquus Keyes.
Lateral view of type.
Fig.
4.
Capulus tribulosus White.
4a.
A rather small shell from above.
4b.
Same from side.
Fig.
5.
Capulus cornuformis Winchell.
Lateral view of a small individual.
Coll.
J. S.
Newberry.
Fig.
6.
Calyx of Plahcrliius pileiformis Hall showing the impression made by a calyptrsean shell on the posterior side of the crinoid.
Fig.
7.
Portion of the ventral surface of ASroomt
s rerais Hall showing the impression made by a growing shell of Capulus.
Fig.
8.
Capulus formosus Hejes.
Lateral view of type specimen attached to Dorycrinus immaturus W.  Sp.
Coll.
Wachsmuth and Springer.
Fig.
9.
Capulus quincyensis McC.
View of an exfoliated specimen.
Fig.
10.
Capulus infu7idibulvm M. W. A shell attached to the anal surface of Platycrinus hemisphericus M. .
W. Fig.
11.
Capulus equilateralis HalY.
An example adhering to the calyx of Platycrinus hemisphericus M.  W. Coll.
Wachsmuth and Springer.
Fig.
12.
Capulus sulcatinus Keyes.
12a.
View of the type specimen.
12b.
Ventral view of another individual.
Fig.
13.
Capulus chesterens is JSl.
V.
13a View from above of a specimen resting on the ventral surface of Pterotocrimis acutus Weth.
13b.
Another example with the alate radial dome plates of the crinoid broken away.
Both from Collection of Wachsmuth and Springer.
13c 13d.
Lateral aspects of two other individuals.
Fig.
14.
Cajndus parvus Swallow.
14a 14b.
Views of the type specimen Museum State University of Missouri.
14c.
A larger example generally known as C. nebrascensis Meek.
Unless otherwise stated all specimens here figured are in the collection of C. R.
Keyes.
182 1890.
May 6.
Dr. D. G. Brinton in the chair.
Twentynine persons present.
A paper entitled  New Myxomycetes in Century xxv of Ellis and Everhart's North ximerican Fungi.
By Geo.
A. Kex.
The death of George S. Pepper a member was announced.
May 13.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Twentyeiglit persons present.
May 20.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Thirtytwo persons present.
Hippotheriuvi and Rhinoceros from Florida.
 Prof. Leidy remarked that with other fossils which had been the subject of former communications collected by Joseph Willcox and Wm.
M. INIeigs at the phosphate bed of T. S. Morehead in Peace Creek Florida there were a number of Horse teeth.
These were regarded as having pertained to the extinct indigenous species Equus major and E. fraterniis.
Among them was one which from its general resemblance was included with the former but since has been noticed by the quickly observant eye of Prof Cope to belong to a Hippotheriimi.
The size of the tooth indicates the species to have been as large as the ordinary domestic Horse and therefore the largest species of the genus yet discovered.
The specimen also represents the third species found in Florida  the others being the H. ingenuum and If.plicatile Proc.
1885 33  1887 310.
The tooth a second or third upper molar is three inches long in its outer curvature and the worn triturating surface represented in the accompanying woodcut measures 15 lines fore and aft and 14 lines transversely.
The arrangement of the enamel most nearly approximates the condition observed in H. occidentale from our western tertiary formation.
The i inner column of uniform breadth the entire length ofthe crown measures half an inch fore and aft and in section is horizontally reniform.
The species was a third larger than the H. jracile the largest European form.
Hiiipotiunum rnnceps.
From its size it may be distinguished with the name of HippotheRIUM PRINCEPS.
Comparative measurements of the teeth of H. ingenuum.
H. plicatile.
H. princeps.
Fore and aft diameter 19mm.
20mm ' 82mm.
Transverse do 17nim.
24mm.
31mm.
The fossil bones from near Archer Florida which have been the subjects of former brief communications Proc.
1884 118  1885 32  1886 11  1887 309 consist in greater part ofthe remains of a species of Rhinoceros distinguished as E. proterus.
It was an animal approximating in size the living li.
indicus but had comparatively short robust limbs and was probably hornless.
The remains consist of teeth and bones with fragments of others mostly isolated of many individuals.
Thus as an indication of the latter the collection contains 28 astragali and nearly a hundred complete metapodials.
The bones of the feet are remarkable for their short robust character.
Among the fossils are a few bones and teeth of a second species of Rhinoceros a little larger than the former and with feet of the same proportions as in the recent Indian Rhinoceros.
Of this species the collection contains but a single imperfect astragalus.
A pair of metacarpals the second and fourth though of less breadth than those of R. proterus approximate double the length.
The comparative measurements of the specimens are as follows  Second metacarpal  R. long
pes.
R. proterus.
Length in front at middle .
.
157mra.
92mra Breadth of upper extremity .
.
 45mm.
50mm.
Breadth of lower articulation .
.
39mm.
40mm.
Fourth metacarpal  Length in front at middle .
.
144mm.
81mm.
Breadth of upper extremity .
.
40mm.
44mm.
Breadth of lower articulation .
35mm.
41mm.
A carpal scaphoid in comparison with one of R. proterus presents the following measurements.
Extreme breadth .... 84mm.
85mm.
Extreme height .... 60mm.
40mm.
A pair of tusks lower incisors much worn which have been about 8 inches long are supposed to belong to R. proterus.
They are strongly curved much compressed fore and aft and measure 47mm.
wide by 33mm.
thick at the base of the crown.
Another tusk about a foot long is supposed to have belonged to the other species of Rhinoceros.
It is less curved and more cylindrical than the former and at the base of the worn crown is 51mm.
wide and 45mm thick.
For the second species the name of Rhinoceros longipes was proposed.
May 27.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Twentyeight persons present.
184 ruocJcicDiXGS of the acadkmy of 1890.
Mastodon and Capybara of South Carolina.
 Professor Leidy directed attention to several fj.ssil.s and made the following remarks.
The exploration of the hosiiate beds of the South Atlantic States romises to give usjnuch information of the qnatenary fauna of the region.
jNIany interesting forms both terrestrial and marine have been brought to our notice.
Recently the fine specimen of a Mastodon tooth exhibited looking as if carved out of ebony as is the case with many of the fossils from the same and similar localities yas presented to the Academy by Mr. James R. McKee.
It was found in the Santee Beds of Beaufort Co. S. C. It is the complete crown of a last upper molar strikingly different from that tooth in the common xmerican Mastodon.
It is worn only on the summits of the anterior pair of lobes which display the usual exposed dentinal areas.
Notwithstanding the many species of Mastodon which have been recorded in North and South America the present tooth seems to indicate a different one.
It more nearly resembles the corresponding tooth of the M. florldanus recently described or that of the M. angustldens of Europe than of the M. americanus.
In comparison with the molars of these and other known species the tooth is remai'kable for the greater proportionate length of the constituent lobes of the crown and their conspicuously wrinkled condition.
The wrinkling is longitudinal and regular and apparently not the result of an abnormal state.
Similar wrinkling is observed in some specimens of the same teeth in M. americanus but mainly confined to the intermediate vallies of the crown while it is well produced laterally in the present fossil.
From the comparatively more prolonged condition of the lobes the summits of the inner ones appear more tapering or narrowly pointed than in 31. fioridanus  while with the fore and aft extensions of the same lobes the summits form acute and not obtuse angles as in the latter.
Regarding the specimen as indicating a previously unknown species this may be distinguished as the Mastodon rugosidens.
Comparative measurements of the tooth are as follows  M. rugosidens.
M. flo'idanus.
Length of crown fore and aft Breadth of base at fore part Length of second inner lobe Length of second outer lobe The second fossil is a fragment of an uiper incisor of a Capybara from Ashley River South Carolina submitted for examination by Mr. Edwin E. Howell of the firm of Ward and Howell.
Some specimens of molar teeth from the same locality previously described do not differ in any respect from those of the living species but from the conditions under which tliey Avere found were referred to a different one with the name of Hydrocho'rus cesopi Proc.
1856 165.
The present fossil accords in anatomical character except size with the corresponding part in the living Capybara.
Its comparative measurements areas follows 90mm.
190mm.
92mm.
96mm.
90mm.
80mm.
80mm.
62mm.
Fossil.
Recent.
Transverse diameter .... 16mm.
10mm.
Fore and aft do 11 mm. '
8mm.
It perliaps pertains to the same species as the fragment of a mandible from Nicaragua referred to Hydrochoerus rohustus Proc.
1886 275.
Since the description of the latter I have seen the notice of a species H. magnus indicated by the ramus of a mandible found in Buenos Ayres S. A.
Gervais and Ameghino Mammif Fossiles de I'Amerique du Sud Paris 1880 45.
The size of the former apjears to accord with that of the latter species and they are perhaps the same.
The anteroposterior diameter of the first lower molar attributed to H. rohustus is 25mm.
Ameghino gives as the same diameter of the second lower molar of H. magnus 26mm.
Bol.
Acad.
Nac.
Ciencias Buenos Ayres 1883 273.
In the recent Capybara the fore and aft diameter of the first and second lower molars is nearly the same  so that the measurement of the corresponding teeth in the two fossils would indicate animals of the same size and it may be suspected the same species.
The following were elected members   Alfred G. Baker Charles Piatt John Cadwalader Clement A. Oi'iscom Charles P. Hayes James iVIacAllister Thomas Miles John C. Garland Annesley R. Govett David Milne and Caleb J. Milne.
The following were ordered to be printed   NEW EAST INDIAN LAND SHELLS.
BY H. A. PIL8BRY.
Helicina Dentoni Pilsbry.
Shell of a globoseconical form but acutely keeled at the circumference  solid  opaquewhite with dark red inner whorls and milkAvhite apex.
Surface slightly shining showing under a lens numerous about 14 on bodywhorl low indistinct spiral riblets.
The spire is conical nearly straightsided  apex white  the next two or three whorls are a rich dark red color.
There are 41 whorls very little convex the last rather rounded but with an acute keel.
Aperture halfround dark reddish orange inside  lip expanded light salmoncolored.
The pad at the umbilical region has a glassy faint bluish appearance.
Alt.
7 greater diam.
84 lesser 7
mm.
Oblique alt.
of aperture 4i greatest width 42 mm.
One of the specimens has obscure irregular reddish spots on the upper surface of the last and next earlier whorls.
The species does not appear in the Monographs nor in the more recent publications of TapparoneCanefri Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Genova and others.
It is named in honor of Mr. William Denton who collected the specimens in New Guinea.
Nanina Kuschenbergeri Pilsbry.
Shell large depressed thick and solid rudely striate deeply and perspectively umbilicated.
Solid and strong opaque.
The specimens are dead lusterless and destitute of epidermis of a dirtyAvhite color with either 1 a single narrow peripheral brown girdle the umbilicus brown inside or 2 a broad brown girdle encircling the middle ofthe whorl or 3 the upper surface of the last Avhorl brown except for a light girdle just above the periphery below which there is a broad zone its lower edge fading out on the base the periphery itself marked by a narrow darker band  in all the forms the umbilicus is brown inside and the whorls of the spire light the apex somewhat rufous.
The surface has very coarse and uneven irregular oblique strias above  they are weaker below  and under a lens close incised 1890.
187 spiral lines become visible making the surface granulate  tliey are nearly obsolete on the bodywhorl but usually distinct inside the umbilicus and on the earlier whorls.
The spire is low obtuse  sutures deeply impressed.
Whorls 6 slowly widening the inner three somewhat protruding above the outer  the last whorl very convex above obsoletely angled on its earlier portion becoming rounded shortly but decidedly deflexed in front.
Aperture very oblique roundedlunate  peristome expanded on its outer margin reflexed blunt and much thickened on the basal and columellar margins.
Umbilicus deep permitting one to see to the apex and funnelshaped.
Alt.
22 greater diam.
42 lesser 37 mm.
 width of umbilicus 8 mm.
 oblique alt.
of mouth meas.
outside perist.
21 width 21 mm.
Another specimen measures  Alt.
22 diam.
45 mm.
Habitat LiuKiu Is.
Dr. Ruschenberger.
This is a very solid heavy form apparently belonging to the group of H. pallasiana Pfr.
but very different from that species in its much more convex whorls deeper suture more broadly expanded umbilicus and in the rounded bodywhorl the earlier part of which is very acutely carinated in H. jxdlaslana.
There are four specimens befoie me one of them about half grown the others adult.
The young shell is very obtusely angled at the periphery  the strite are minutely granulated.
The embryonic shell is large about onefifth the diam.
of the adult composed of about 2f whorls of which the outer lA are finely distinctly granulate the inner ones having low curved radiating little folds.
The termination of the embryonic shell is marked bv a distinct line.
