THE CORALS AND CORAL REEFS OF THE WESTERN WATERS OF THE GULF OF MEXICO.
BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPKIN.
Oueof the peculiarities of Vera Cruz which almost first arrest the eye of the traveler is the vast quantity of coral that has been used in construction.
The pier-fronts, the sea-wall, and the more ancient houses show equally the use that has been made of this material, the piedra de mucar of the inhabitants.
Alexander von Humboldt, in his Essai Politicjue sur la Nouvelle Espagne, speaks of this piedra de mucar, and others after him refer to the same material.
The species of coral contained in the rock are mainly Orbicella cavernosa (f), 0. annularis, Diploria cerebriforniis and M(e(tnf/?-/»r/ s^rt'^'o.sa, and since these species all inhabit the waters of the warm Atlantic, in and out of the Gulf region, it would seem but natural to assume that the Vera Cruz rock was obtained somewhere in the vicinity of the city.
On entering the port on a calm day the growing coral-masses can be distinctly seen from the bow of the ves.sel, and all around are a number of islets and banks which closer inspection shows to be made up almost entirely of living and dead coral.
The larger vessels anchor in the deeper waters that separate the growing banks, while the smaller craft drop their anchors directly on the heads of living coral.
The small boat which lands passengers from the steamers carries the traveler directly over a line of reef, whose contours, barely removed more than a pole's length from the eye of the observer, appear sharply defined through the perfectly clear and transparent waters.
In view of the peculiar conditions which surround these reefs, it is difficult to understand'how it has come to be the general belief among scientists that coral-reefs are not found in the western waters of the Gulf of Mexico, a belief that has held its own for a period of nearly half a century, or ever since Darwin published his classical woi'k on the "Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs" (1842).
Thus, neither in the first edition of this w'ork nor in the last (1889, edited by Prof. Bonney) is mention made of the occurrence of such reefs, nor do they appear on the map of distribution which accompanies the work.
Prof. Dana, writing in 1890 (" Corals and Coral Islands," 8d edition), says : " But the west shores of the Gulf of Mexico, ai^ well as the northern, like "West Florida, are mostly low, and without reefs ; they are within the influence of the Mississippi and other large rivers" (p. 352).
Can it be assumed that all travelers to the region have so far feared a visitation of the yellow fever as to force them to speed their journey in such a way as not to permit an examination of the ground that was about them?
Or has this fear kept scientists away generally?
I must admit that the ten days of June which I, in company with my associate, Mr. Frank C. Baker, spent in exploring the reefs and sands of Vera Cruz were all that could have been desired, and neither of us experienced any ill effects from out-door labor.
When we were not on the water we were on the hot sands, but the highest registry of the thermometer was only 92° F., and after 10 o'clock in the morning the in-draught of cool air from the sea was such as to render travel and work not only tolerable but pleasant.
The species of coral collected by us are the following : Madrepora prolifera, Lam.
A very abundantly represented species, rising to within about six feet, or less, of the surface of the water.
It corresponds in all essentials of structure with specimens of the same species from the Dry Tortugas and from the Florida Reefs generally.
Madrepora palmata, Lam.
This magnificent species occurs in association with the above, forming heads from Ave to ten feet, or moVe, in expanse.
It covers large areas in the shallower reef-waters, where its rich brown and yellow colors are seen to great advantage.
Many of the older specimens show the palmations in distinct tiers or series, and not merely on a single plane ; the crateriform protuberances, largely covering anneliditubes, are very abundant, and give to the corallum a singularly striking and robust appearance.
I feel doubtful if the palmate form of the corallum, as seen in M. palmata, M. flubelluni and M. alces (East Indies), is in itself a character sufficient to distinguish the species from those forms, agreeing with the palmate types in other respects, in which the corallum is strictly digitate.
My associate, Mr. J. E. Ives, has called my attention to the tendency -in the direction of digitation which many individuals of the palmate species exhibit.
This is carried so far in some of the specimens contained in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences that it becomes difficult, if not really impossible, to class the individuals.
The tendency toward digitation shows itself more particularly on the plane of the frond, and is but rarely marginal.
It seems to me likely that certain special conditions of the environment are directly instrumental in bringing about some of those modifications in outline which have been held to be of specific value; but if such is the case, I was unable in the present instance to determine any governing cause.
In the Bermudas I thought that the crowding of the calyces on one side of the stem of Ocalina was due to the action of local currents, or to one-sided deposit of shoresediment ; and I believe that a similar observation, or one much in harmony with it, has been made in the case of certain digitate species of madrepore.
Porites furcata, Lam.
A number of individuals of this species were found washed up on the shingle banks of the Isla Verde and of Sacrificios Island.
The frequency of fragments shows that the species must be abundant, but we failed to find the exact locality of its occurrence.
Not unlikely it is in the vvaters of Anegada Reef Porites astraeoides, Lesueur.
Abundant among the more massive corals of the inner waters.
Siderastrsea galaxea, Ellis and Solandt-r. Several specimens obtained in the inner waters; also washed up on the beach of the Isla Verde.
Orbicella annularis, Lam.
I identify with this form several rolled or worn fragments, whose partially obliterated characters do not, perhaps, allow of absolute specific determination.
This is one of the common forms in the Vera Cruz walls.
I suspect that several of the generally recognized species of Orbicella are only varietal types, but the material at my command does not permit me to determine this point with positiveness.
The specific characters are drawn in very close limits, and I doubt if they can be made applicable to a large series of individuals of any one group.
We dredged undoubted specimens of the Orbicella annularis — at least of the form figured as such by Pourtales in his report on the Florida corals — off the coast of Yucatan, near Progreso, in about 20 feet of water.
The ccenenchyma is of a brilliant vermilion color.
Neither Dana nor Milne-Edwards mentions the color of the animal, 21 and it is singular that the hitter author states that the habitat of the .s[)ecies is unknown.'
Orbicella ^\<.
/ A well-presei'vc^d, waslied fragment of a subglobose form, \vho.se characters do not seem to fit in with those of any described species.
In general appearance it at once recalls 0. annularis, and not impossibly it may be a variety of that species; but the septa of the coralluni are compound, divaricating or trivaricating, and appear in transverse section 24 in number.
They are much finer than in typical 0. annularis, as are also the irregular and multii)le cells in the intercalicular wall.
P^'ound on the beach of the Isla Verde.
!
Orbicella cavernosa, Esper.
Several fragments from Sacrificios Island and elsewhere which I doubtfully refer to this species.
The intercalicular spaces are largely cellular, with the form in part of the letter V, and the species thus approaches 0. radlata, Ellis and Solander.
From the latter it is, however, distinguished by the smaller size of the calyces, and by the more compact coralluni.
In certain respects, again, the species apl)roaches 0. glaucopis, of Dana, from the Fiji Islands.
'^ This species of coral is largely represented in the wall-structures of Vera Cruz, but a second related species, possibly 0. radiata, occurs associated with it.
We failed to obtain any living OrhiceUm in the Vera Cruz waters, and the species are probably most abundant on the outer tjorder of the reef-sea.
Maeandrina strigosa, Dana.
This is one of the two common forms of brain-coral which enter mU) the construction of the reefs.
It forms large orbicular or elliptical heads, four or five feet, or more, in diameter, and shows to great advantage in the shallower waters through its brilliant orange coloring.
The basal attachment is often limited in area, and " rotten " besides, so that a strong jerk will frequently dislodge the head from its moorings.
In this manner we obtained a number of large specimens, the divers using principally their hands alone in forcing.
1 Histoire Naturelle des Coralliaires, II, p. 474 (Heliastrsea.)
The Mexican form agrees absolutely with a coral from the Post-Pliocene deposits of Sanlo Domingo, contained in the collections of the Academy, and which has been determined by Pourtales to be O. cavernosa.
But in this form, as in its more western representative, the intercaliculars spaces are largely cellular.
This is the only Mceandriua that was found in these waters, and I searched in vain among our specimens for M. hthyrinthica — at least, for that form which Dana identifies with Ellis's description and figure.
I have little doubt that Ellis himself included in his species the form which is now referred to M. sfrigosa, but there certainly appears to be a well-marked difference between the two species.
The upright and very thin calicular walls, and the closely packed septa (45-50 to the inchj, plainly identify the Vera Cruz species with Dana's M. strigosa.
I found both species in the Bermudian waters.
Diploria cerebriformis, Lam.
This species is found in close association with the last, which in general habit and in coloring it also resembles.
Both species are very numerously represented in all stages of development, and they build up a perfect pavement of coral — a pavement of giant cobble-stones, as it were.
Their weathered masses are seen everywhere in the old stone constructions of Vera Cruz, where they constitute the true piedra de nmcar.
Both species of brain-coral rise to within a very short distance of the surface, and we nowhere found them to descend below about 25 feet ; usually they keep within a zone of some 5 — 15 feet.
They occur closely packed, and where largely developed, in a way monopolize a given area, to the exclusion of the upright Madreporaria.
Oculina sji.
?
r obtained a fragment of a species of this genus, but unfortunatelv it was misplaced before I had a' chance to determine its specific characters.
Cladocora (Caryophyllia) flexuosa, Liiuiiuck, Anim.
vSans.
Vert., 2J.
Ed., II, p. 352.
Ellis ami Soliinder.
''Zoophytes," pi.
32, fig.
1.
(no description).
Lamouroux, Expos, Method, Polypiers p. 49, pi.
32, fig.
1.
I identify with this species a form that is found in l)unclied masses on the bases ofsomeof the Majandrinas and gorgonians, and agrees well with the figures of Ellis and Solander, and with the descriptions furnished by the authorities above quoted and by Dana (" Zoophytes," p, 381).
Lamarck doubtfully refers the species to the Indian Ocean, but Dana, more <;orrectIy, believes it to be AVest Indian.
Verrill, in his synonymic list of species described by Dana, api>ended to the latter's " Corals and Coral Islands," doubtfully identifies the form in question with Cladocora stellaria, of Edwards and Haime (Annales des Sciences Naturelles Ser.
3, Zoology, XI, p. 807 — X, pi.
7, figs.
9, 9a).
This identification is, I believe, erroneous.
Cladocora stellaria is a Mediterranean species, and is distinguished by a shallow cup ; in the form from the Mexican Gulf the cup is deep, almost profound.
The species is likewise distinct from that figured as Cladocora arbxiscida in Agassiz's report on the Florida Reefs.
Plexaura (Gorgonia; flexuosa, Lamour.
Gorgonia angniculus, Dana (U. S. Exploring Expedition, Zoophytes, p.
668.)
This is the only species of gorgonian that we obtained in the Vera Cruz waters, but I have little doubt that others are j)resent.
We observed, however, none of those large Gorgonia fields which so l)eautify the waters of the Bermudas and excite the wonder of the visitor to those islands.
We obtained from the shallows about Progreso, northern shore of Yucatan, the Xlj)hlgorgia anceps of Pallas (Elenchus Zoophytorum, p. 183).
The species is fairly common there.
I feel confident that the Xiphigorgia Guadalupensis of Duchassaing and ^lichelotti (Memoire sur les Coralliaires des Antilles, Mem.
Accad.
Torino, 2d ser., XIX p. 309, pi.
IV, fig.
3) is only this species, and likely the same is true of A"^.
Americana of these authors (Op.
cit., XXIII (2d ser.)
p. 113, pi.
II, fig, 6).
These investigators, while furnishing good illustrations of their material, have been singularly unfortunate in their determinations and descriptions of species.
The Reefs.
The reefs of the A^era Cruz waters consist of a number of detached islands or island banks, from less than half a mile to a mile and a half in length, which extend eastward from the coast line for a distance of nearly six miles.
They are known as the Gallega (on which is built the famous Castle of San Juan de Uli'ia) Galleguilla, Blanquilla, Anegada de Adentro, Isla Verde, Islote de Pajaros and Sacrificios.
Of these, the Gallega, which is separated medially by a channel of water of moderate depth, is the largest, measuring in a north-and-south direction, considerably over a mile.
Two other banks of very much smaller dimensions are the Lavandera, lying to the southeast of Gallega, and Terranova, between Sacrificios Island and the Islote de Pajaros.
The outer boundaries of these reefs enclose a triangular body of water whose base is the coast line and whose apex is the Anegada de Adentro.
A second series of reefs begins about eight miles to the southeast, or opposite the promontory of Anton Lizardo, and likewise extends triangularly out to sea.
The islets of this series (Arrecife de Chopos, Medio, Cabeza, Anegada de Afuera, etc.)
are considerably larger than those of the first, the Chopos reef measuring nearly three miles in length (N. W. — S. E.) Owing to the limited time at our command, we were unable to visit these lower reefs, and from personal observation, therefore, I am unable to say in how far they are purely of coral structure.
But from the statements of those who are acquainted with the waters, I gather that they are largely identical in formation with the islets lying off Vera Cruz, and the.ir general l)Osition and direction lead me to infer that tliey have a common origin.
On tlie hydrographic charts all the dangerous banks are marked as reefs, but this should not be taken to necessarily mean " coral reefs."
Thus, the reefs off Punta Gorda, lying 3-4 miles to the northwest of Vera Cruz, I found to be serpuloid and not coral, and the same is true, in great measure, of the Hornos reef, which lies about a mile to the southeast of the city.
It should also be stated that the " coral sand" of hydrographic charts is not necessarily a sand of triturated coral, but may be of other limestone formation.
An examination of the accompanying maps (Pi's.
VI and VII) shows that the main axis of nearly all the islands is directed in a N. W. — S. E. line, or in a direction parallel with the coast, a condition doubtless due to the interaction of prevalent winds and local currents, the latter of which shape the position of the detrital material.
This is well shown by the heaps of shingle, coral-fragments, shells, etc., which have accumulated on the southeastern faces of some of the banks — the general lee-side of both wind and current — either as the result of long-continued action or of a single storm.
Such deposits are especially well developed on Blanquilla and the Isla Verde ; the island portion of the Sacrificios reef is likewise situated in the southeastern half of the circle of coral by which it is surrounded.
Much the same contours that we see in the banks to-day already existed a century ago, as may be learned from the magnificent chart prepared by Ponzoni, in 1807, for the use of the Spanish Hydrographic Service.!
This shows that the dry mass of Blanquilla already then 1 This extremely rare map of the harbor of Vera Cruz, of which, I am informed, only two copies exist to-day in the whole of Mexico, was published in 1816.
It is by far the most detailed of all the maps illustrating this portion of the Gulf waters, and it is especially interesting in connection with the study of coral reefs, as it carries back the authentic history approximately one hundred years.
For the use of this map, and the permission to make a copy of it, I am [indebted to Captain Powell, of Vera Cruz, Chief of Construction of Docks of the Mexican Railway.
To the same gentleman, and to Messrs. Hall and Santiago Shirley, representing also the Mexican Railway, I am further indebted for many facilities offered for the exploration of the reefs and the accomplishment of our mission generally.
existed, but an additional structure, in the form of a stone wall much resembling apiece of masonry, has been superadded as the result of a single heavy storm, the hurricane of Sep. 8, 1888.
All of the reefs receive a breaking water, caused by theup-throw of disjointed boulders, and the heavier break is on the lee or shoreside, where the rock-masses have accunnilated in greatest abundance.
The long rolling surf, occurring in scattered patches over the blue waters, is a beautiful sight of the harbor.
The more or less regularly oval shape of the reefs recalls the atoll-form, and a hasty examination of the region might lead to the assumption that the islets are true atolls.
But this is not the case.
It is true that a circular or elliptical form distinguishes some of the reefs, and that in others a patch of dry land is found surrounded by a more or less continuous ring of coral and a separating channel of water ; but the conditions as they are presented are not those of true atolls.
The form is that of almost any bank that rises either out of the water or close to its surface — the tendency of water-action being to round off the obstructions that may interpose themselves — and' the included water is only a shallow pan, and not the distinctive lagoon of an atoll.
The depth of water over the reefs generally is inconsiderable, from one and a half to perhaps six or seven feet, and some of the reefs are almost laid dry in low-water.
This was the condition of the Gallega Reef when we finally left the harbor of Vera Cruz.
The actual " ring" of the reefs, where it exists at all, is thus necessarily insignificant, and it is largely due to the mechanical action of water ; in some parts it may arise from accelerated organic growth, but on this point I could not satisfy my mind.
Be this as it may, the lagoon is certainly neither a lagoon of solution nor one of subsidence.
In the case of some of the reefs, as Gallega and Galleguilla — indeed, I am not sure if this is not true of most of the reefs — the greatest development of coral growth seems to be on the leeor shoreside, or opposite to that which is generally supposed to receive the greatest supply of organic particles.
The brain-corals and madrepores are there developed in immense profusion, although barren areas of sand here and there project themselves into the living mass.
The scarcity of animal life on these sand tongues or patches is very remarkable ; for long reaches we saw absolutely nothing in the shape of animal existence, while at other points there may have been a few shells (Triton, 3Iurex) thinly scattered about.
We did not see a single starfish, nor were we more successful in uur search after holothurians ; the latter animals are especially conspicuous on the corresponding sands of the liernnida Keefs.
Far otherwise was it among the growing heads of coral, although even here the luxuriance of the Bermudas was wanting.
The Diiulemn setosa among sea-urchins was very plentiful, and we observed a number of large annelids, besides mollusks of various kinds.
But the bristling forest of millepores and sea-fans (gorgonians) was wanting, and with them the host of brilliantly colored foruis which live in association.
The water separating the reef-patches is of moderate (^le})th, but at many points it descends below the 20-fathom line, or beyond what is generally considered to mark the zone of living-reef structnres.
Thus, for most of the distance between the Isla Verde and Blanquilla (a little more than a mile and a half) the depth exceeds 100 feet, and at several places it varies from 120 to 130 feet; and much the same depth is found between Blanquilla and Galleguilla (one mile) and between the Isla Verde and the Islote de Pajaros (someAvliat over a mile).
We frequently sounded in these greater depths, and nowhere obtained positive indications of a coral growth ; the greased lead invariably brought up sand particles, but no impressions of either dead or living corals.
I could not say positively, however, that living coi'als may not be found in these deeper parts, as our "grease" was perhaps a little too soft to retain distinct impressions; but it is certain that wherever our sight penetrated the perfectly crystal waters to a depth exceeding 80-35 feet it fell on barren sand ; and I am not sure that we anywhere could see living coral even at this depth.
Usually the barren sands bounded the reef-zone at a depth lying between 15 and 25 feet.
The oceanic slope of the reefs is in most part a very moderate one, but there are places where it is as much as 1 in 5 or even 1 in 4 (12-14 degrees).
Of course, this is small in comparison with that which is found in the case of many true atolls.
Off the western point of the Islote de Pajaros we obtained 75 feet at a distance of little more than 200 feet from the breaking crest.
As regards the permanence in depth of the Avater-ways between the reefs it may be said that many of our soundings corresponded absolutely with the soundings registered in the Ponzoni map of 1807 (181G).
This correspondence was especially noticeable in the water-ways between the Islote de Pajaros and the Isla Verde and between the latter and 312 I'UocKKDixfis or thl; acadkmv of [1S<)().
Bluii(|uilla.
On the other hand, immediately west of the Islote de Pajaros, and at various points southeast and south of Gallega, there seems to have been a considerable amount of shoaling, some places to the extent of 8 or 10 feet, or more, but in most parts I suspect that this shoaling is due almost wholly to the displacement of shifting sands, and not to coral encroachment.
Apart from the testimony of the depth of water which is still found over these shallows, this condition seems to be largely indicated by the circumstance that at a few points a greater depth was found than appears on the map, ])robably the result of uncovering.
It is not improbable that at a few places south of the Gallega Reef, or between the reef and the mainland, the shallowing that we observed is actually due to coral up-growth ; at any rate, the discrepancy in the depths is here very marked, as much as 12-15 feet (depth of water 21-27 feet), and the waters cover a rich growth of brain-coral (Mceandrina, Diploria).
It is hardly possible that a layer of corals approaching so closely to the surface should have completely escaped the early hydrographers, or that these investigators could have been in error in their determinations of the then existing depths.
But then if neither proposition is tenable, and we are compelled to fall back upon the assumption of simple coral up-growth — which to me appears every way plausible — we must assume a rate of growth much more rapid than has until recently been allowed these lowly organisms.
A number of instances are, however, on record where individual specimens of il/ceanc?rma are known to have increased in height from a half-inch to an inch per annum, and of Madrepora where the increase for the same period has been three inches.'
An average growth of an inch and a half per year would add in a period of ninety years eleven feet.
The reefs which have been described in the preceding pages manifestly belong to that group which Darwin recognized as being 1 Dana " Corals and Coral Islands," 2d ed., 1890, pp.
123-lii7 (quoting Pourtal^s, Hunt, Verrill, etc.).
On the other hand, the observations of Mr. H. T. Woodman (communicated to Prof. Dana under date of Jan. 25th, 1890 — Op.
cit., appendix, pp.
418-419), conducted over a period of fourteen years, would seem to indicate a very much slower growth.
During the above-mentioned period the following upward growths (among others) were registered : Orbicella annularis, one and a quarter inches ; Diploria cerebriformis, nearly three-fourths of an inch ; MtEandrina sinuosa, an inch and a quarter; and M(j:andrina labyrinthica, an inch and seven-eighths.
Specimens of Madrepora cervicornis, however, seem to have encroached upon the channel under observation to an extent of 6-8 or even 10 feet.
1890.]
NATTKAI.
SCIIONCKS OK PIIII.A DKI.I'IIIA.
813 built upon f*hoals or beds of" sediment " lying a little beneath the .surface, ready to serve as the l)asis for the attachment of coral " ("Structure and Di-stribution of Coral Reefs," 1842, p. 58), a class of structures which the opponents of the subsidence theory of reefformations fail to recognize as being in consonance with the Darwinian hypothesis.
They are, according to a strict classification, neither encircling, barrier, nor fringing reefs, and as a fourth class might, perhaps, with advantage be grouped as "patch" reefs.
They belong to the same category as the Florida reefs and banks, whose formation has been largely api)ealed to as evidence against the Darwinian hypothesis of subsidence.
But neither the Florida reefs nor the reefs of Vera Cruz give any evidence either in favor of or against great subsidence, since they are mere shallow-water formations, and, so far as direct evidence goes, they represent only surface deposits.
Yet it is by no means either impossible or improbable that some of them are actually placed on subsided areas, while it is all but j)ositive that others have been brought to their present positions through elevation.
Certain it is that movements of elevation have taken ])lace in the Floridian region during a very recent geological period, and it is at least probable that movements in a contrary direction w^ere not wanting at about the same, or a somewhat earlier, period, and again later.
^ In the case of the Vera Cruz reefs we have more 1 I have discus^ed these points in my report on the geology of the peninsula of Florida (" Explorations on the West Coast of Florida and in the Okeechobee Wilderness" — Trans.
Wagner Free Institute of Science, Phil., 1887 — pp.
15, 26 -33, 64b), ai;d again in my observations on the coral reefs of the Bermudas (" The Bermuda Islands.
A Contribution to the Physical History and Zoology of the .Somers Archipelago," 18811 — pp.
61, 73, 227).
Alexander Agassiz well recognizes the nature of the ' patch" reefs, and the possibilities of their formation (following Darwin) without the necessity of either elevation or subsidence (" The .
Tortugas and Florida Reefs. "
Memoirs Amcr.
Acad.
Arts and Sciences, XI, part.
II, 1885, pp.
118-1!>).
But I fail to see the evidence in support of the statement that " on the Yucatan, as on the Florida Bank, the conditions favorable for coral reef growth have been produced, not by the uplifting of the continent, but by the gradual rising of the bank itself into suitable depths in consequence of the accumulation of animal debris upon it" {^loc.
fit); or for the further statement that " there is practically no evidence that the Florida reef, or any part of the southern peninsula of Florida which has been formed by corals, owes its existence to the effect of elevation " (" Three Cruises of the Blake," I, p. (>1, 1888).
In my work on the Bermuda Islands, above referred to, I have considered these points, and attempted to show that the actual geological evidence that we possess in the premises tends largely, I might say, almost wholly, to a conclusion opposite to that which was reached by Mr. Agassiz.
Prof. Shaler, in a definite data rei^ardiiig the condition of the surface upon which those structures are reared.
The position San Juan de Uh'ia, on the Gallega Reef, is evidence that there have been no changes of level of any consequence for at least 800 years, or since the year (1582) when the construction of the fort was first begun ; the recent development of the reefs has been in a stable area.
Manifestly, in a region of stability there could have been no " atolls of subsidence" formed, and we find no I'eefs that can even remotely be associated Avith the atoll structure.
The facts thus far neither favor nor oppose the Darwinian theory of coral formations, but they are fully in consonance with it ; and, so far as I see, they neither favor nor absolutely disprove the substitute theory which has been advanced by Mr. Murray and his followers.
It is, however, a significant (if perhaps not remarkable) circumstance that with peripheral acceleration (in growth ) and internal solution — the two determining conditions of atoll formation of most of the adherents of the new school — we should still fail to find in a region of stability, atoll-reefs.
It is true that, with the very slow rate of solution which has been assumed to be possible, a well or lagoon of any depth could barely be formed in a period of three hundred years ; somewhat singular paper on " The Topography of Florida" — singular for reason of its failing to take account of the geological work done in the State prior to his own researches — supplements my proof of the geologically recent uplift of the southern portion of the Floridian peninsula with testimony bearing directly upon the reefs themselves : thus the reef of Biscayne Bay " gives proof of a recent elevation of the shore to the height of about twenty-five feet " (Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., XVI, 1890, p. 143).
This statement is, of course, directly antagonistic to the position held by Mr. Agassiz.
In my description of the rocks of Sarasota Bay, west coast of Florida (Trans.
Wagner Free Inst.
Science, 1, 1887, p. 15), I state that it is " more than probable that this portion of the coast has quite recently been undergoing subsidence" ; Prof Shaler {Op.
cit., p. 148) corroborates this position by the statement : " There is a good deal of evidence to the effect that the whole peninsula of Florida has undergone a subsidence often or twenty feet in altitude since the last period of elevation."
With direct evidence thus in favor of both elevation and subsidence of the Floridian region during the existing period of coral-growth, nothing remains of the assumption that the formation of the Florida Reefs is in any way opposed to the Darwinian theory of reef structure, for it absolutely nullifies the three leading propositions that are embodied in that assumption : 1.
That there has been no subsidence in the coral makmg tract ; 2, that there has been no elevation in the same region; and 3, that great banks, organically constructed, have been built up without assisting movements of the crust.
The same argument applies to the reefs of the Yucatan bank.
the rate ot'i'o inch per anuuiii, which hin' been assumed by Irvine,' would Yield in this^ period of time a depth of water no greater than actually exists on some of the reefs to-day, about two or three feet.
'But theu it should not be forgotten that the three centuries repre.sent merely the least time for which we have a record of the completion of a single reef; the identical condition of stability may have existed for centuries before, and certainly a long period was consumed in the growth of the reef before it reached the surface.
Surely some decided evidence of solvent action, in the form of a true basin-structure, might have been expected in this time ; and the more if we further take into account peripheral acceleration.
But such evidence is clearly wanting.
So little, however, is as yet known regarding the amount and capabilities of solution that, perhaps, too much stress should not be laid upon this negative evidence — especially, as we seem to be dealing with a somewhat mysterious force, whose woi'kings are, at least to me, a little inscrutable.
The solvent " power" that permits to build up and then, apparently without cause, suddenly reverses and begins to remove, is possessed of a Mr. Agassiz, in a note to Prof. Shaler's paper, seems to think that tlie Florida Everglades may be largely of a reef formation, or to be due to sedimental accumulation behind and between reefs.
This is a revival in part of the old reef-theory of growth of the Floridian peninsula, which recent researches have abundantly disproved.
Mr. Agassiz recognized that this theory is no longer tenable, but he manifestly lays loo much stress upon the probability of a like structure holding good for that part of the peninsula which lies south of the " northern extremity,"' or even for that which is mainly comprised within the region of the Everglades itself.
My own researches, which have since been supplemented by those of Dr. Dall, show that heavy fossiliferous deposits of Pliocene age are found nearly half across the peninsula on the Caloosahatchie, and their position there makes it practically certain that they largely underlie the region of the Everglades.
1 have so stated it in my report (p. 6.5) : " The evidence, further, is very strong that beyond Lake Okeechobee and the Caloosahatchie the structure of the State is for the mo^-t part identical with that above it, and the observed facts clearly prove that this correspondence must exist over at least a considerable portion of the unexplored region of the Everglades."
Mr. Agas-;iz ha-; apparently not read my report (beyond possibly the opening sentence), otherwise he could hardly have stnted (p. lo7l that my "explorations were limited to the portions of the west coast of Florida included between Cedar Keys and Punta Rassa, and did not touch the Everglade district."'
1 Nature, March 1.5, 1888; this point is discussed in my " Bermuda Islands," pp.
203-205, 1889.
It has already been remarked that the central reef-depression is in most cases merely a negative one, a rim having been formed through up-throws by the beating waters.
olG rKOCEKDrxcits ok the academy of [1890. capacity for work which requires special examination.
Individually, I must confess, I have thus far failed to find a fragment of a fact which supports the solution theory of lagoon-formation ; and so long as the construction of the reef-lagoon remains unexplained, so long must all theories explaining the formation of atolls be considered defective.
ECHINODEKMS FROM THE NORTHERN COAST OF YUCATAN AND THE HARBOR OF VERA CRUZ.
KY J, E. IVE8.
The Echinodermata which form the .■subject of this paper were collected on the northern coast of Yucatan and at Vera Cruz, in the spring of the present year, by an expedition from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to investigate the natural history of Yucatan and Mexico.
The writer, who was a member of the expedition, is indebted to Professor Angelo Heilprin, the Director, for the opportunity of working up this portion of the collection.
The results in this department are interesting.
One new genus and three new species are described in the following pages, a little known species is figured for the first time, the synonymy of this species and of some others has.
been studied with jirofitable results, and the majority of the species collected supply new localities which form connecting points between the northern and southern portions of the great West Indian, or eastern tropical American littoral fauna.
The northern coast of Yucatan possesses a sandy beach largely made up of shell fragments.
The water, off the coast, is very shallow, the 10 fathom line being 20 miles from the shore, and the 100 fathom line about 150 miles.
Three" miles off" the shore, in the neighborhood of Progreso, the bottom is of a sandy character, although a few small corals were brought up in the dredge.
Along the shore to the westward of Progreso is a small Serpuloid reef.
Large quantities of sea-weed and sponges are thrown upon the beach and lie decomposing in the sun.
These and numerous waterworn specimens of Orhicella annularis and a large Escharine species of Bryozoan, with some specimens of Xiphogorgla anceps, indicate the existence of a region rich in animal and vegetable life not very far from the shore.
The following species were collected on this coast in the neighborhood of Progreso and the Port of Silam : Holothuria Heilprini, Holothuria Silamensis, Holothuria nitida, Toxopneustes variegatus, Echinaster Brasiliensis and Luiclia alternata.
No Ophiurans were found on the beach, or in the dredgings oft' the shore, although careful search was made for them.
The liarbor of Vera Cruz i.s an area of luxuriant coral growth, madrepores and brain corals being especially abundant.'
No holothurians were collected here, but on the other hand two species of (jphiurans were obtained.
The forms from this locality are the following: Diddema sefosum, Echinometra subangularis, Mellita jicnta2)orns, Thyraster serpentarius, Astropeden articulatus, Ophiura ciiierea and Ophiothrix angulata.
After the detailed account of the species collected which follows, in which they are separated into the two regions from which they were obtained, I have advanced some general considerations based upon their geographical distribution.
A chronological list of all the important memoirs dealing with the Echinoderms of the West Indian region, has also been compiled which I believe will be of use in the future study of this area.
Yucatan.
Holothuria Heilprini, n. s]>.
PI.
VIII, figs.
1-6.
Body cylindrical, narrowed toward the anterior end.
Specimen very much contracted, probably to half the length of its extended condition.
Anus round.
A few large wart-like prominences scattered over the dorsal surface, each surmounted by a papilla containing a rudimentary terminal plate and smooth rib-like rods with the ends enlarged and perforated.
Pedicels present upon the dorsal and ventral surfaces : upon the dorsal surface they are evenly distributed and are slightly smaller than those of the ventral surface.
The ventral pedicels are very numerous and closely approximated.
In the specinien collected there is no trace of a linear arrangement.
The specimen obtained has ten tentacles, the most ventral of which is much smaller than the rest.
The body wall is very thick in the much contracted example.
The calcareous ring is very similar to the figure of that of Holothuria Floridana given by Selenka^ in his " Beitriige."
There are two bundles of short madreporic canals attached to the dorsal surface of the oesophagus on the right and left sides respectively of the dorsal mesentery.
In the specimen ubtained there are twenty canals on the right side and nineteen on the left.
^ See Professor Heilprin's Report upon " The Corals and Coral Reefs of the Western Waters of the Gulf of Mexico " in this volume, p. 303.
2 Zeit.
wiss.
Zool.
Bd.
xvii, pi.
xviii, fig.
47.
1890.]
NAJTHAL scii:x('i:s or piiiladi:i-1'hia.
819 The distal ])ortions of the canals are enlarged, so as to form elongated heads.
Two of the canals on the left side are branched, thus possessing two heads.
A single long and slender Polian vesicle exists, which is more than half the length of the animal, and terminates in a vesicular enlargement of consideral)le sizi'.
Cuvei'ian organs are not present.
In the walls of the dorsal pedicels are tables of the ordinary type described below, and a few rosettes.
Around the terminal disks there are also tables which lack disks, the four rods bending inwards and uniting at the point where they meet.
The ventral pedicels occasionally possess a few diskless tables around the edge of the terminal disk similar to those of the dorsal pedicels, and their Avails contain a few rosettes.
The calcareous deposits of the body-wall are ct)llected into heaps which give its surface a granulated appearance.
They consist j)rincipally of rosettes which occur in great abundance.
They are usually about 'Olo mm.
in diameter.
The branches of the rosettes, in rare instances, coalesce to form irregular })erforated plates.
On the dorsal surface the accumulations of rosettes are accompanied by a number of tables, which possess well developed disks and are of the Holothurla atra type, usually with a hole at the base of each rod.
Exceptionally the hole is absent or it may be represented by two or three similar holes.
The rods are connected by a single cross-bar.
Each of the rods is surmounted by three prominent teeth, two horizontal and one vertical.
The height of the tables and the diameter of their disks is about "1 mm.
The tables are almost entirely absent from the accumulations of the ventral surface.
The color in alcohol, of the granulated portion of the body is a dirty olive green ; the portions free from deposits are slate-color with a purplish tinge; the sides of the pedicels grayish and their disks straw-color; tentacles very light straw-color.
Length of the much contracted specimen about 80 ram.
Collected among the wet seaweed of the beach at the Port of Silam.
I have named this species after Professor Angelo Heilprin, the Director and promoter of the expedition.
This form is related to Holothuria atra of Jaegei'.
The most prominent difference is the arrangement of the calcareous deposits into heaps in Holothuria Heilprinl, producing an appearance of granulation over the surface of tlie body.
The branches of the rosettes also, in this species, very rarely coalesce to form plates, and the wart-like prominences sparsely scattered over the dorsal surface are also a distinguishing feature.
True papillie are confined to the summits of these prominences, and the remainder of the dorsal surface is evenly covered with pedicels only slightly smaller than those of the ventral surface.
In the superficial appearance of granulation it resembles Holothuria grisea of Selenka, but the deposits of this species are collected into circles, and not heaps.
It also differs from Holothuria grisea in the fact that the disks of the tables have a hole at the base of each rod and are not provided \vith spines, and that there are two well developed bundles of madreporic canals, instead of a single free canal.
Holothuria Silamensis, n. sp.
PL VIII, ligp.
7-0.
Body cylindrical, equally rounded at both ends, about three times as long as broad.
Anus round, not stellate.
Surface smooth to the touch.
Dorsal and ventral surfiices possessing pedicels of small size, more numerous upon the ventral than upon the dorsal surface, but not crowded.
The ventral pedicels show an imperfect arrangement in three rows, of which the middle row is the widest.
A few papillse are scattered amongst the dorsal pedicels.
The pedicels possess a well developed terminal disk.
In two out of many pedicels that I examined I found extremely rudimentary tables around the edge of the disks.
The tables are apparently of the type which is found in its perfect form in Holothuria atra.
In the one case there were two present and in the other, one.
These must be regarded as exceptional structures as I did not find any trace of tables elsewhere in the specimen.
Probably they are rudimentary structures derived from an ancestor possessing tables.
The walls of the pedicels are free from deposits.
The papillae contain a rudimentary terminal disk and several smooth rib-like rods with perforated ends, such as are characteristic of them.
The calcareous deposits of the body-wall are not numerous and consist entirely of small, irregular, perforated plates, which are formed by the coalescence of the branches of rosettes.
They usually have one diameter longer than the other; thelongdiameterbeingabout'OSmm, and the short diameter, "02 mm.
They occur in small heaps, but the heaps ai'e not suflBciently large or numerous to produce the granulated appearance, which is possessed by the previous species.
In the specimen obtained there are twenty tentacle.s of nearly uniform size.
The body wall i.s thick.
The calcareous rinij is well d('velo])ed, but its conipoueut j^ieces are not very coherent.
There are numerous short madreporic canals, arranged in two l)undles, one on either side of the dorsal mesentery above the •esophagus, three on the left side and ten on the right.
The distal portion of each canal is enlarged, forming an elongated head as in the preceding species.
There is one long and slender Polian vesicle, more than half the length of the animal, with two considerable vesicular enlargements, one near its end, and the other near its middle.
The specimen possesses a very small bundle of Cuverian organs.
The color in alcohol is a dirty white mottled with dark gray.
The dark gray predominates on the anterior portion of the dorsal region.
The tentacles are a dirty white, the walls of the })edicels and papilke light gray, and the disks of the })edicles straw-colored.
Ivength of the specimen, 80 mm.
Collected at the Port of Silam among the wet sea-weed of the beach.
This form is characterized by rosette-like plates, absence of tables, two bundles of madreporic canals, non-stellate anus, absence of wartlike prominences on the dorsal surface, general distribution of pedicels and the very small number of papillae.
The number of tentacles, presence of Cuverian organs and character of its Polian vesicle, are probably not important characters, on account of the want of stability of structure of these organs.
It falls into the section of the genus Holothuria defined by Theel as " possessing more or less incomplete rosettes."
Seven species are included by him in this section, H. marmorata J'dger, H. Argus Jiiger, H. Vitiensis Semper, H. tenuissima Semper, H. KoeUikeri Semper, H. clemens Ludwig and H. similis Semper.
He thinks it probable, however, that they represent one or more species capable of great variation..
They have hitherto only been reported from the tropical Indo-Pacific region.
Holothuria Silamensis differs from all of them in the possession of two well-developed bundles of madreporic canals, instead of a single canal.
It can also be distinguished from H. marmorata, H. Argus and H. Vitiensis, by the circular instead of stellate anus ; from H. 22 Koellikeri and //.
teiiuissima, by an nnequal instead of an equal distribution of papilhie over the surface of the body, and from H. demens by the absence of the fifteen small papilke which surround the anus of the latter species.
These distuictions are given for the sake of convenience.
Many minor ones exist, but the difficulty, even with the characters given above, is toestimatetheir real value.
It is possible that a larger amount of material may in the future enable us to unite these forms as varieties of one or a few species.
The existence of the three rudimentary tables, j^reviously mentioned, even suggests a relationship to Holothvria afra and its allies.
This species I have named after the Port of Silam where it was collected.
Holothuria nitida, n. sji.
I'l.
Vril.
figs.
10-15.
Body cylindrical.
Specimen collected, in a moderately extended condition, four times as long as broad, slightly acuminate at both ends.
Surface of the body smooth.
Pedicels and papilla on the dorsal surfoce and pedicels alone on the ventral surface.
Dorsal pedicels not very numerous, smaller than the ventral.
Containing well developed tables, of the type found in Holothuria atra, around the edge of the terminal disks, and also rosettes.
Tables about "1 mm.
in height, and their disks about "09 mm.
in diameter.
A very few imperfect tables (see PI.
VIII, fig.
11.)
also occur around the edge of the disks.
Rosettes usually with a longer and shorter diameter, the former being on an average •03 mm.
and the latter '02 mm.
Some very much larger rosettes of abnormal form are found in the pedicels, PI.
VIII, fig.
15.
The ventral pedicels lack deposits in their walls but possess well developed terminal disks.
They are arranged in three imperfect longitudinal rows, the two outer having a width of three or four pedicels, and the inner of four or five.
The papillae are arranged in a row of about seven in number along the lower edge of the dorsal surface, on either side, and in two longitudinal rows upon the intervening portion.
They contain many rib-like rods with branched or perforated extremities.
Tables and rosettes also are sometimes present.
The deposits of the body-wall are few and consist entirely of rosettes which usually occur in very small and scattered groups.
The branches of the rosettes occasionally coalesce, forming imperfect perforated plates.
There are twenty tentacles of" nearly equal size.
The body-wall is moderately thick.
The calcareous ring is well developed and is of the shape given in PI.
VIII, fig.
13.
There is a bundle of five madreporic canals on the right side of the dorsal mesentery and a single canal on the left side.
The canals are short and have an elongated head.
A single, long and slender Polian vesicle is present, possessing a vesicular enlargement at its distal end.
A very small bundle of Cuverian organs exists.
The sexual glands are divided.
The color of the dorsal surface, in alcohol, is indigo-black relieved by a number of large white spots arranged on either side along its edge, and also forming irregular longitudinal rows upon the intervening area.
From the centres of these white spots arise the })apilhe described above.
The ventral surface is dirty white, speckled with indigo.
Each of the interambulacral areas of the ventral surface is marked by a dark line.
The pedicels and papillae have a yellowish tint.
The tentacles are of a dirty white color.
Length 35 mm.
A single specimen was collected among the wet sea-weed washed up on the beach at the Port of Silam.
It is closely allied to Holothuria atra of Jiiger, but is distinguished by the presence of pedicels upon the dorsal surface, by the absence of tables in the integument of the jjody-wall and by the well-defined color pattern.
Toxopneustes variegatus, Lamk.
Auiiu.
Sans.
Ver., 1S16, p. 48.
A. Agassiz, Mem.
Mus.
Corup.
Zool., Vol.
III.
1872-LS74, pp.
ItiS, 289, 500.
PI.
II, iva, vi, vii, xxv.
Three specimens were dredged in shallow water on a sandy bottom off Progreso and three specimens were collected on the beach.
They are evidently not very abundant in this locality.
None were found upon the beach at Silam.
In the specimens obtained the spines are very short and those of the al)actinal surface, rather slender and pointed.
Prof. Alexander Agassiz in the Revision of the Echini mentions the presence of two specimens of this species in the Museum of the Ecole des Mines, from Yucatan.
The species was also dredged on the Yucatan Bank, bv the " Blake."
This species is found throughout the West Indian region, extending northwards to Beaufort, N. C. and southwards to Armacao, Brazil.
Professor Agassiz also records it from Cape Dos Bahias, Argentine Republic.
Echinaster Brasiliensis, MUller and Trofchel.
System der Asteiiden 1S42, ji.
22, Tab.
l,fig.
4.
(?)
Perrier, Arch.
de.
Zool.
Exp.
Vol.
IV, 1875, p. ?>(37.
Lutkcn, Vidensk.
Meddel.
1859, p. 93.
Rathbun, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Vol.
V, 1879, p. 148.
Ludwig, Mem.
Cour.
Acad.
Roy.
Belg.
T. XLIV, 1882.
No.
5, p. 7.
Two starfishes obtained upon the beach at Progreso have been referred to this species.
The larger specimen is about 80 mm.
in diameter.
The length of the radius of the disk, to that of the arm, is about as one to five.
The arms are cylindrical and tapering.
The spines of the surface of the arms and disk are small, not longer than the ambulacral spines, and form nine irregular rows upon the surface of the arms.
There are about twenty five spines in a row from the middle of the disk to the tip of the arm.
The ambulacral spines are arranged in three more or less perfect rows.
The two outer rows are of equal size and the spines are opposite to one another ; the spines of the innermost row are much smaller and alternate with the larger spines.
The smaller specimen is about 70 mm.
in diameter and has only seven imperfect rows of spines, with about 20 spines in a row.
The specimens when alive were of a rust-red color, darker above than beneath.
In alcohol they have become a light dirty brown.
I have figured the larger of the two specimens collected, PI.
VIII, figs.
16-18.
The specimens found in Yucatan, agree with the description of the forms referred by Mr. Rathbun to this species from Rio Formoso, Pernambuco, Brazil.
The synonymy of Echmaster Brasiliensis and of the other species of Echinaster inhabiting the western shores of the tropical Atlantic is in a very unsatisfactory condition.
Miiller and Troschel give Oihilia multispina of Gray ^ as a synonym of this species, but it appears to me very doubtful if this form is the same.
The locality of the specimen described by Gray is unknown.
His description runs thus : " Rays short, depressed, broad, rather more 1 Annals and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., Vol.
VI, 1840, p. 282.
1890.]
NATUKAL SCIKNOES OF PHILADKLPHIA.
325 than twice as long as the width of the body, bhiiit at the end, with eleven rows of acute distant spines."
According to Miiller and Troschel their sj)ecies is distinguished by its small and numerous spines.
The authors who have described the form subsequently, viz Liitken, Dujardin and Hupe, and Rathbun have characterized the species principally by this character, and have associated with it that of slender arms.
Miiller and Troschel also refer to Seba's i figux'e of Pentadacfylosaster .tpinosus regularis virginianus as an illustration of their species.
Not only, however, is this figure entirely out of accord with their description but it is almost identical with the figure of Pentadactylosaster spinosns regidaris of Linck, '■' which forms their type of Echinaster spinosus, the species described immediately before Echinaster Bra-'iiliensis.
Seba's specimen came from Virginia and he distinctly identified his figures with Linck's previous figure.
Both figures are good representations of Echinaster spi7iosus, with large distant spines, and cannot by any stretch of the imagination be considered as identical with Echinaster Brasiliensis.
The figure of this species given by Miiller and Troschel does not at all agree with their description of it, but rather with that of their Echinaster spinosus.
It is possible that the figure may have been wrongly named.
If the views expressed above are correct it is very doubtful whether Echinaster Brasiliensis has any synonyms.
This species is distributed throughout the West Indies and extends northwards to the Florida channel and southwards to Rio Janeiro.
Florida channel (A. Agassiz).
Kingston, Jamaica ; Puerto Cabello; Rio Janeiro (Liitken).
Brazil (M. & T.).
Rio Formoso, Brazil (Rathbun).
Cap Vert, Brazil, (Ludwig).
Rio Janeiro, (Perrier.).
The following list represents the species of Echinaster^ found in waters of the Western Tropical Atlantic, Echinaster spinosus, Retzius.
Dissert.
Sist.
Spec.
Cog.
Asteriarum, 1805, p. 18.
Asterids echiiiophora, Lamarck, Hist.
Nat.
Aniin.
Sans.
Vert.
t. ii, p. 560.
Echinaster senilis, Say.
J«ur.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1st Ser., Vol.
5, p. 143.
The two specimens referred to by Say in his description of Echinaster sentus, which were presented by Lieut.
Gandtt, are preserved 1 Thesauri Vol.
iii, p. 13, Tab.
7, Fig.
4.
De Stellis Mariiiis, Tab.
iv, Fig.
7.
'^Echinaster serpcntariiis (Val.)
Miiller and Troschel, has been placed by the author in a separate genus, see below.
in the collection of the Academy, and after comparison of them with examples of Ech'master sjnnoms from New Providence, Bahamas, also in the collection of the Academy, I am unable to find any well marked characters separating them from the latter species.
AVest Indies; Brazil to Virginia.
Echinaster crassispina, Venill.
Trans.
Conu.
Aca<l.
Art* and Sci., Vol, 1, ji.
368, pi.
iv, fig.
7.
This species may prove to be a variety of the preceding species.
Bahia, Brazil.
Echinaster Brasiliensis, ^Miiller and Troselicl.
System der Astcriden, ji.
22.
(Taf.
l.flg.
11 ?.)
AVest Indies ; Florida Channel to Rio Janeiro.
Echinaster spinulosus, Verrill.
Proc.
Eost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XII, p. 3S6.
AVest Coast of Florida.
Echinaster modestus, Perrier.
Nouv.
Archives Mus.
Hist.
Nat.
t. VI, p. 200.
PI.
Ill, fig.
7.
Below 100 fathoms, AVest Indies.
Luidia alternata, Say.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sei.
Phila.
( 1 ) Vol.
V, 1S25.
p. 144.
Lutken, Vidensk.
Meddel., 1859, p. 42.
Perrier, Arch.
Zool.
Exper., 1876, T. V. p. 254.
Ludwig, Mem.
Cour.
Acad.
Royal, Belg., 1S82, T. XLIV, No.
5, p. 9.
Sladen, " Challenger " Report on the Asteroidea, 1889, p. 250.
Luidia granulosa, Perrier, Ann.
Sei.
Nat., (5) t. .xii, p. 301, PI.
II, fig.
IS.
Luidia variegata, Perrier, Arch.
Zool.
Exper., 1876, t. v. p. 257.
A single specimen of this species was collected off Progreso at a depth of about 20 feet.
The living animal was straw-colored, with black markings forming three or four irregular, transverse bands upon the dorsal surface of the arms : black markings absent from the ventral surface : spines more or less greenish : ends of the ambulacral feet orange red.
The same coloration is preserved in the alcoholic specimen, with the exception of the loss of the greenish color of the spines, and of the orange color of the ends of the feet.
The distinctive characters of this species are the three well-marked rows of paxilljB on either side of the arms, and the existence of two or four imperfect rows of spines upon the dorsal surface of the arms, one or two rows on each side.
In the specimen collected, there are traces of three rows of spines on either side of the arm, at its base.
A few three valved pedicellarise exist in our specimen between the adambulacral and the ventral rows of spines.
They clo.sely resemble Perrier's figures of those of Luidia granulosa.
Kadius of the, disk 10 mm., leiiirtli of an arm from center of disk, 70 nun.
This species is found in the West Indies, and extends nortlnvards to Florida, and southwards to Bahia, Brazil.
Florida (Say).
Florida Channel, 40 fnis.
(Agassiz).
Antilles; Tortugas; He Breton, Mississippi K. ; (30 ni.
N. He Jolbos, 14 fms, ; Montserrat, 88 fms.
(Perrier).
St. Thomas (Liitken).
Brazil (Ludwig).
Bahia, 7-20 fms.
(Sladen).
The following species of Laidia are found in the AVest Indian region.
Luidia clathrata, fi;\y.
Jour.
Acnil.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
(1) NUl.
\', \i.
1 IL'.
A. Agas.^iz, Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., V, p. IIT, pi.
xx.
West Indies; Beaufort, N. C. to Rio Janeiro.
Luidia Senegalensis, Lam.
Anim.
San;* Vert.
t. iii, p. 2.55.
IVrrier, Arch.
Zool.
Exp., Vol.
V, p. 262.
Luidia Marcgravii, Lutken.
Vidensk.
Meddel.
L'^59.
p. 43.
West Indies, southward to Rio Formosa, Brazil.
Also upon the West Coast of Africa (Senegal).
Luidia elegans, Perrier, Arch.
Zool.
Exper., t. v, p. 256.
Florida straits (101 feet), Barbadoes (200 fathoms.)
Luidia convexiuscula, Perrier, Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
Hist.
Nat.
(2), T. VI.
]>.
26s.
Lesser Antilles, and off' S. W. of Florida.
(56-208 fathoms.
j Luidia alternata, Say, We.st Indies ; Florida to Bahia, Brazil.
Luidia Barbadensis, Perrier, op.
cit., p. 267.
Barbadoes and off*S. W. of Florida.
(40-209 fathoms.)
This species may be a long armed variety of Luidia alternata.
A complete list of the literature of these species Avill be found in Ludwig's List of Brazilian Echinoderms, Perrier's " Stellerides des Dragages du Blake," and Sladen's Monograph of the "Challenger" Asteroidea.
Vera Cruz.
Diadema setosum, Gray, Ann.
Phi!., 1825, p. 4.
A. Agassiz, Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Vol.
Ill, 1S72-1S74.
pp.
10:!, 274, 408.. Pis.
lib, lie.
IVa, VI, Via, XXIV, XXVII.
XXVIII.
Very abundant among the reefs of the harbor of Vera Cruz.
Found upon the coral sand in shallow water or in rock and coral recesses.
Especially numerous in the shallows off" the Gallega reef.
328 ruocEEDixus of thk acadkmy of [1890.
Tlii-s species has uot before been recorded from the Gulf of Mexico.
It is found throughout the West Indies and extends northward to Cape Fh)rida and southward to Fernando de Noronha.
It is also found throughout the whole tropical region of the globe witli the exception of the West Coast of America.
Echinometra subangularis, Leske, 1778.
Kl.
Add.
A. Agassi'/,, Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Vol.
Ill, 1872-1874, pp.
116, 2S:'., 4:U, Pis.
Xa, XXVI.
Sv6n Tjovi'h, Bihaiij;Kongl.
Svensk.
Vetensk.
Akad.
Ilandl.
Vol.
I?,, IV, 18S8, p. n:^.
A large series of specimens of this species were collected at Vera Cruz.
They were f )und in great quantities in the shallows lying to the northwest of the town, es})ecially upon the rock and serpuloid reef known as the Caleta.
Tliey are characterized by a somewhat flattened and circular test.
The spines show a great range of variation in their coloring.
They are of various shades of reddishbrown, purple and olive.
Some specimens are of very light tints and others are almost black.
The spines are often tipped with different colors.
This species is found throughout the West Indies, and as far northward as Charleston, S. C. and southward as Desterro, Brazil.
It is also found upon the West coast of Africa, and at Ascension Island.
Mellita pentapora, Gmelin, 1788, Liun.
Syst.
Nat.
3188.
Afel/ifa testudinata, Klein,i 1734, Nat.
Disp.
Eeh., p. 30, PI.
XXI, fig.
C. D. A. Agassiz.
Mem.
Miis.
Comp.
Zool., Vol.
Ill, ])p. 141, 322, 538, Pis.
XI, XI la.
Xllc.
This form is very abundant in some places upon the beach at Vera Cruz.
The specimens collected are considerably shorter in their anteroposterior diameters than the typical forms of this species.
Both Klein and Louis Agassiz^ based their description of Mellita testudinata npon specimens received from Vera Cruz, and it is an interesting fact that the figures given by each of these authors illustrate this peculiarity.
Evidently it represents, not an individual variation, 1 As Klein's names are not admissible under the British and American Association rules, I have adopted the first post-Linnasan binomial, viz, Echinus pentaporus of Gmelin.
2 Monographic d' Echinodermes.
Des Scutelles, 1841, p. 40, Tab.
4a, figs.
7-10. but a local variety.
The typical form is seen in the figure sjiven by Professor Alexander Agassiz in his Revision of the Echini.
This species is found in the West Indies, extending northward as far as Cape Hatteras, and southward to Itabapuana, (100 m. N. E. Rio Janeiro) Brazil.
Professor Verrill in his Report u])on the Invertebrata of Vineyard Sound says that the specimens found north of Cape Hatteras are rare and dead.
Thyraster serpentarius, Mullor unJ Troschel.
Kchinaster serpeiitarius (Val.)
Muller and Troschel, .System iler Asteriilen, |i.
24.
Perrier, Arch.
Zool.
Exper., t. iv, p. 370.
A single specimen of this interesting form was collected at Vera Cruz.
It corresponds well with Miiller and Troschel's description.
'They described their species from specimens in the Paris Museum, also obtained from Vera Cruz.
The specimen collected by the expedition is superficially characterized by the numerous very small, short, blunt spines forming irregular longitudinal and transverse rows upon its dorsal surface, and by the peculiar arrangement of the arabulacral spines.
There are four of these spines arranged in a row upon the aboral edge of each adambulacral plate.
The innermost spine is the smallest and bears at its base a rudimentary spinelet.
Each })late of the .series of ventral plates adjoining the adambulacral plates has three or four spines upon its aboral edge.
Each of the lateral plates also has a row of three spines upon its aboral edge.
The ambulacral, ventral and lateral spines of the arms are verj' small, but not so small as tho.se of the dorsal surface.
The distal portions of all the spines have a rough appearance when viewed with the naked eye.
and when examined with the microscope are seen to be thorny.
The reticulated, skeleton is made up of a number of qudrilateral plates, connected at their angles and arranged in longitudinal rows.
The abactinal spines are borne upon the edges of these plates.
The ventral and lateral plates are connected by an intermediate ossicle.
Intermediate ossicles occasionally occur between the other plates of the skeleton.
The central portion of the surface of these j)lates is covered with minute tubercles which give them a granulated appearance.
Figs.
19, 20 and 21, PI.
VIII, represent dorsal, ventral and lateral views of a portion of the skeleton of an arm, enlarged about four diameters.
The regular arrangement of the j)hites produce?
a superficial resemblance to an Asterias.
The specimen collected has a diameter of about 50 mm.
R:==5r.
This species has as yet only been recorded from Vera Cruz.
It differs essentially from Echhutster as defined by Perrier,' Viguier' and Sladen,'' and even as defined by Miiller and Troschel* themselves, for they say, " in der Haut ein zusammenhangendes netz von Balken," and quadrilateral plates certainly cannot be termed " Balken."
The abactinal and lateral skeleton of an Ech'master consists of small, narrow, imbricated plates forming an irregular network.
The skeleton in this species, on the contrary, consists mainly of quadrilateral plates arranged in regular longitudinal series.
It is also distinguished by the minute tuberculation of the plates, the arrangement of the spines along their edges and the thorny character of the distal portion of these spines.
I have, therefore, erected a new genus for this species, which may be characterized as follows: — THYRASTEK, n. gen. Ambulacral pedicles biserial.
Actinostomial margin defined by the adambulacral plates.
Arms subcylindrical, skeleton composed mainly of quadrilateral plates, united at their angles by imbrication and arranged in longitudinal series.
Plates minutely tuberculated, supporting spines upon their edges.
Distal portion of the spines microscopically thorny.
I hope at a future period to consider the question of the relationship of Thyraster to the Echinasteridre in general.
Astropecten articulatus, Say, Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
(1) Vol.
5. ji.
141.
Perrier, Arch.
Zool.
Exp., Vol.
5, 1876, p. 290.
Astropecten duplicatus (xray, Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
Vol.
VI, 1841, p. IS], Perrier, op.
cit.
p. 2V1.
Astropecten Valenciennii, Muller and Troschel.
System der Asteriden.
p. ()8.
Astropecten variabilis, Lutken, Vidensk.
Meddel., 1859, p. 59.
A single specimen of this species was collected at Vera Cruz.
It is found in the West Indies, extending northward to Beaufort, N. C. and southward off the island of Jolbo on the northeast coast of Yucatan.
1 Arch.
Zool.
Exp.
t. iv, pp.
283 and 289.
2 Ibid.
t. vii, p. 123.
^ Challenger Report, pp.
xxxviii and 53B.
* System der Asteriden, p. 22.
Beaufort, N. C. (Nachtrieb).
South Carolina (Ives).'
Georgia and East Florida (Say).
Tampa Bay, West Florida (Ives.)
Florida Channel (L. Agassiz).
Vera Cruz (Midler and Troschel).
St. Thomas, St. Croix (Liitken).
St. Vincent (Gray).
60 ra.
N. He Jolbo ; Banc de Yucatan (Perrier.)
There appears to be no important difference between Astropecten.
articulates of Say a,nd Astropecten Valeneiennii of Miiller and Troschel.
The only supposed difference between the two species was the existence of two rows of spines upon the supero-lateral plates of the latter, in distinction to one row in the former species.
But upon examination this character proves to be very variable.
PerrierMescribes a specimen of Astropecten articulatiis in which the spines upon the supero-marginal plates are entirely lacking, and an examination of the specimens in the collection of this Academy has convinced me that this character is subject to great variation.
Both series of spines may be developed along the whole length of the arm or one or both may be more or less imperfectly developed, or according to Professor Perrier they may be both entirely absent.
Professor Perrier found upon examination of original specimens that Astropecten Valeneiennii was identical with Astropecten duplicatus of Gray, and Astropecten variabilis of Liitken.
Miiller and Troschel described their species from a specimen obtained at Vera Cruz.
OpMura cinerea, Muller and Troschel, System iter Asteriden, p. 87.
Lyman, Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
ZooL, Vol.
I, p. 27.
Ophioderma Antillaruni, Lutken, Vidensk.
Selsk.
Skrift.
Bd.
V., 1859, ji.
100, Tab.
1, fig.
1.
A single specimen of this species was brought up with a coral at Vera Cruz, from about eight feet of water.
It is distributed throughout the West Indies, upon the Florida reefs, and southward as far as the Abrolhos Islands, Brazil.
Tortugas, Fla.; Key Biscayne, Fla. ; St. Thomas ; Jeremie, Hayti ; south of Vera Cruz in the Gulf of Mexico; Aspinwall; Bahia, Brazil, 7-20 fiths.
(Lyman).
St. Jan, 1 fath.
; St. Thomas, 1 foot to 4 fiths.
(Liitken).
St. Barthelemy (Ljungnan).
Fernando de Noronha ; Parahyba do Norte ; Plataforma ; Mar Grande ; Bay of Bahia ; Abrolhos Reefs (Rathbun).
^ Catalogue of the Asteroidea and Ophiuroidea in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1889. p. 169.
2 Arch.
Zool.
Exp.
t. .5, 1876, p. 291.
Ophiothrix angulata, Say, Jour.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila.
(1) V, p. 1 1.").
Lymau, Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., Vol.
I, p. 162, PI.
11, Figs 1-.3; " Clialienger '" Report on the Ophiuroidea, 1882, p. 219.
A yoiino; specimen was brought up on a coral from about eight feet of water in the harbor of Vera Cruz.
This species is found abundantly throughout the West Indies, and extends northward to Beaufort N. C, and southward to Rio Janeiro.
Beaufoil, N. C. (Nachtrieb).
Fort Johnston, N. C. (Ayres).
Charleston S. C. (Say).
Waccamaw, S. C; Key West, Fla. (Lyman).
Charlotte Harbor, Fla. ; Tortugas (Ayres).
Off Bermudas, 32 faths.
(Lyman).
Guadiana Bay, Cuba; Bahia Honda., Cuba; Jeremie, Hayti ; St. Thomas (Lyman).
St. Bartheleniy ; Tortola, (Ljungman).
Sombrero, 54 faths.
; Barbadoes, 100 faths.
(Lyman).
Mugeres Island, Yucatan ; Aspinwall ; Fernando Noronha, (Lyman).
Parahyba do Norte ; Pernambuco ; Rio Formoso ; Plataforma ; Mar Grande, Mapelle ; Bay of Bahia; Abrolhos Islands (Rathbuu).
Off Bahia, 7-20 faths.
; OfTCape Frio, Brazil, 35 faths.
(Lyman).
Rio de Janeiro (Rathbun).
Geographical distribution.
In indicating the geographical range of the species collected by the Expedition, I have endeavored to confine the area of distribution, so that it should include only those localities in which the species are constantly found in greater or lesser abundance; and I have, as far as the data at my disposal would permit, avoided including those localities in which only occasional or dead specimens occur.
A good illustration of this principle is the distribution of Mellita pentapora.
Dead specimens are found as far North as Vineyard Sound, but living specimens according to Professor Verrill do not occur north of Cape Hatteras, and I have therefore given Cape Hatteras as the northern limit of distribution of this species.
The amount of collecting that has been done upon the shores of the southern United States is quite small, and it is therefore difficult to define with accuracy the limit of the northerly distribution of West Indian Echinoderms.
The same observation with respect to the southern limit of distribution applies to the coast of Brazil, although much valuable information has been acquired through the collections made by Mr. John C. Branner, Professor Chas.
Fred.
Hartt, and their associates and assistants.
It is desirable that thorough collections should be made on these coasts and also in the West Indian islands, with the object of ascertaining accurately the distribution of the littoral p]('hiiioderin« in the Western tropical Atlantic region.
A paper by Mr. H. F. Nachtrieb' upon the Echinodernis collected at Beaufort, N. C. in connection with the Marine Laboratory of the John Hopkins University, throws some light upon the question of the northern limit of the West Indian p]chinoderm shore fauna.
Of the three species of starfish collected, two belong to the West Indian fauna and one to the northern ; of the Ophiurans the three species are all West Indian ; of the sea-urchins three species are West Indian and one northern.
The Holothurians are unidentified.
Thus it is seen that at Beaufort, which is about 70 miles to the southeast of Cape Hatteras, the Echinoderm fauna is distinctly West Indian.
Commander Bartlett'^ of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, in connection with the work of the steamer " Blake" has come to the conclusion that the Arctic or Labrador current does not extend south of Cape Hatteras, but at that point goes under the Gulf Stream and to the eastward, being deflected that way by the form of the Blake plateau.
He also states that the Gulf Stream has for its western bank the 100 fathom curve wdiich is on an average about 70 miles from the shore as far north as Cape Hatteras, and that the water inside of the 100 fathom line to the shore, appears to be an overflow of the stream as the temperature to five, ten and fifteen fathoms is nearly as high as that found in the stream.
North of Cape Hatteras the Gulf Stream is deflected northeastwards and is separated from the coast by the cold Labrador current.
It will be apparent from the above statements that Cape Hatteras marks the northern limit of an area of temperature which may be regarded as essentially that of the West Indian littoral region.
The following list of species collected by the Exi)editioii will readily show their distribution.
Holothuria Heilprini.
^ Holothnria Sllamensis.
^ Port of Silam, northern coast of Yucatan.
Holothuria nitida. )
Diadema setosum, West Indies, Cape Florida to Fernando de Noronha.
1 Notes on Echinoderms obtained at Beaufort, N. C, Johns Hopkins University.
Studies from the Biological Laboratory, Vol.
iv.
p. 81.
2 Report of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, 188l2, p. 37 and " Three cruises of the Blake" by Alexander Agassiz p. 257, fig.
176.
Echinometra subangnlaris, West Indies, Charleston, S. C. to Desterro, Brazil.
Toxopneustes variegatus, West Indies, Beaufort, N. C. to Armayiio, Brazil.
Mellita pejifapora, West Indies, Cape Hatteras to Itahapuana, Brazil.
Thyraster serpentarius, Vera Cruz.
Echinaster Brasiliensis, West Indites, Florida Channel to Rio Janeiro.
Astropecten articulatns, West Indies, Beaufort, N. C. to off Jolho, off the N. E. coast of Yucatan.
Luidia alternata, West Indies, Florida to Bahia, Brazil.
Ophiura cinerea, West Indies, Florida Reefs to Abrolhos Islands.
Ophiothrix an.gulata, West Indies, Beaufort, N. C. to Rio Janeiro.
It will be observed that with the exception of the Holothurians, and Thyraster serpentarius, the Echinoderms obtained are all common to the West Indies, and their method of distribution points to this region as their center of propagation.
Four of them have a longitudinal range of about 4,000 miles, extending approximately from Cape Hatteras in the north to Santa Catharina in the south.
The others have a more limited range, one extending from the Florida channel to Rio Janeiro, two from Florida to Bahia, one from Florida to Fernando de Noronha, and one is only known as yet from Vera Cruz.
A range is thus indicated, comprehending all the species referred to, limited by Cape Hatteras in the north, and the island of Santa Catharina, off the southern portion of Brazil, in the south.
These northern and southern limits represent points crossed by the isotherms of 15° C. (60° Fahr.)
in both hemispheres during the coldest month of the year.
South and north of these localities respectively the surface temperature of the water never falls below this degree of warmth.
Of the five littoral species of Echini, however, recorded by Professor Alexander Agassiz from Cape Dos Bahias, Patagonia, in his Report upon the Echini of the Hassler Expedition, two belong to the We.st Indian fauna.
The question is thus raised of the true southern limit of the West Indian fiiuna.
The localized habitat of the Holothurians collected is in striking contrast to the broad ranges of the other species.
This localization is largely characteristic of the shallow water Holothuroidea.
The greater number of known species are confined either to one locality or to a very circumscribed area.
This fact was illustrated by the Echiiiodeniis collected l)ytlie Academy's Expedition to the BeriDuda Islands ill 1888 under the direction of Professor Aii.<,^elo Heilprin.
The species obtained with the exception of the Holothurians were all convnion, widely distributed forms, but of the six species of the latter four were new.
The limited habitat of so many members of tliis group is probably due to their poor locomotory qualifications.
It is of some interest to make a comparison of the species collected in Yucatan, at Vera Cruz and in Bermuda.
The Holothurians found at Yucatan, three species of the genus Holotliuria, are distinct from the three species of the same genus collected in Bermuda.
Three other species representing the genera Semperia and Stichopus were also obtained in Bermuda.
Of the Sea Urchins, one species is common to Yucatan and Bermuda, two species are common to Vera Cruz and Bermuda.
Melllta pentaporus at Vera Cruz is represented by Melllta sexforis in Bermuda : and two species were found in Bermuda which were not obtained in Yucatan or at Vera Cruz.
The two species of starfishes from Yucatan, and the two from Vera Cruz are generically different from the two species obtained at Bermuda.
The two species of Ophiurans diflfer generically from the six species collected in Bermuda.
Considerable local difference in the littoral Echinoderm fauna is thus .seen to exist between these three portions of the West Indian region.
It is remarkable that the common West Indian species Toxopneii.stes variegatus was not collected at Vera Cruz, although three other species of sea urchin are abundant in that locality.
It was the only species of sea urchin collected in Yucatan.
Can it be that at Vera Cruz its place is taken by Ecliinometra suhangularis f It is a noteworthy fact that although Diadevia setosum is found in the West Indies, upon the West African coast and throughout the Indo-Pacific region, it is absent upon the west coast of America.
A large number of species of Holothurians, Sea Urchins, Starfishes and Ophiurans, although not found in the Atlantic tropical region, are similarly distributed throughout the entire Indo-Pacific region, being ])resent in the islands of the Pacific, the East Indies, the Indian Ocean and upon the Eastern Coast of Africa, and resemble Diadema setosum in their absence, with a few rare exceptions, from the West Coast of America.
This interesting fact appears to me explicable in the following way : — The littoml species of the tropical regions are probably distributed principally by the warm equatorial currents flowing from east to west.
The equatorial currents of the Pacific arise upon the western coast of America,' and flowing through the islands of Polynesia and the East Indies distribute their species westward, and it would be naturally supposed that the species occupying the area where the currents arise would be also carried in that direction.
This, however, is not so ; probably for two reasons.
1.
The equatorial counter-current impinges upon the greater portion of the western coast of Central America and produces a quiet area in which there is apparently little circulatory motion.
Further, the north and south equatorial currents arise respectively off the coasts of Lower California and Peru, and probably come little into contact with the littoral fauna of west Central America.
2.
The eastern portion of the Pacific Ocean contains very few islands which could serve as connecting points in the distribution of littoral forms.
These are probably the reasons why the west Central American forms are not found in the Indo-Pacific region.
The equatorial counter-current, which could form the only possible means of communication from the Indo-Pacific tropical region to the west Central American tropical region, traverses a tract in which there are only a few scattered islands which are jDrobably not sufficient in number to bring about the introduction of the fauna of the one region into the other.
General Literature of the Echinoderm Fauna of the West Indian Region (not including the Crinoids).
1825.
Thomas Say.
On the species of the Linnsean genus Asterias inhabiting the Coast of the United States.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
(1), Vol.
5, p. 141.
1826.
Thomas Say.
On the species of Linnsean genus Echinus inhabiting the Coast of the United States.
Ibid, p. 225.
1851.
L. F. Pourtales.
On the Holothurite of the Atlantic Coast of the United States.
Proc.
Anier.
Assoc, 1851, p, 5.
1856.
Chr.
Liitken.
Contributions to the Knowledge of the Serpent-Stars.
II.
Review of the West Indian Ophiurans.
Vidensk.
Meddel.
Kjobenhavn, p. 1.
1859.
Chr.
Liitken.
Contributions to the Knowledge of the Starfishes of the Coasts of Central and South America.
Vidensk.
Meddel.
Kjobenhavn, p. 25.
1859.
Chr.
Liitken.
Addimenta ad historiam ophiuridarum.
II.
Description of little known Serpent-Stars from the West Indies 1 See Dr. Van Bebber, Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, Stuttgart, 1890, Tab.
ii.
KEYES ON CARBONIC CALYPTR/EIDAE.
Pioc.
Arad.Nat .
Sci .Phila.1890.
Plate III.
C ) ..^^^ 10 \ narxmaii,.Jel.
JriaiTir?
Abone '-.iKlr.l'tixl^ 1IAHTMAN,XEW SPECIES OF SHELLS.
PROC.
ACAD NAT.
SCI SHARP, ON VINCELONIAN VOLCANO.
PL.
V. PILSBRY, NEW AMERICAN MOLLUSKS.
PL.
VI.
Fiuita G<n-€la t 'il!.\^ P'"(:€ird Proc.Acafl.Nal.Sri PhilaiaOO.
Plat<^ \'II!, IVKS, MEXICAN ECHINODERM8.
and the West Coast of Central America.
Vidensk.
Selsk, Skrift.
Kjobehavn, p. 179.
1865.
Theodore Lyman.
Illustrated Catalogue of the Museum of" Comparative Zoology at Harvard College.
No.
1 Ophiuridse and Astrophytid?e.
Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., Vol.
1 .
Includes a description of the principal West Indian Ophiurans.
1867.
A. E. Verrill.
Comparison of the Tropical Echinoderm Faunse of the East and West Coasts of America, Trans.
Conn.
Acad., Vol.
1, p. 339.
Notice of the Corals and Echinoderms collected by Prof. C. E. Hartt, at the Abrolhos Reefs, Province of Bahia, Brazil, 1867, Ibid, p. 357.
1869.
Alexander Agassiz.
Preliminary Report on the Echini and Starfishes dredged in deep water between Cuba and the Florida Reef by L. F. de Pourtales, Assist.
U. S. Coast Survey, Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., Vol.
1, p. 253.
1869.
Theodore Lyman.
Preliminary Report on the Ophiuridse and Astrophytidse dredged in deep water between Cuba and the Florida Reef by L. F. de Pourtales, Assist.
U. S. Coast Survey.
Ibid, p. 309.
1869.
L. F. de Pourtales.
List of Holothuridffi from the deep sea dredgings of the United States Coast Survey.
Ibid, p. 359.
1871.
Axel.
Vilh.
Ljungman.
Forteckning ofver ute Vestindien af Dr. A. Goessamt under Korvetten Josefinas Expedition in Atlantiska Oceanen samlade Ophiurider.
Ofvers.
Kongl.
Ventensk.
Akad.
Forhandl.
No.
6.
Stockholm.
1871.
Theodore Lyman.
Supplement to the Ophiuridie and Astrophytidse, Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., Vol.
II, No.
6.
Description of deep sea and shallow water Ophiurans from Florida.
1871.
Chr.
Liitken.
Fortsatte kntiske og beskrivende Bidragtil Kundskal an Sostjernerne (Asteriderne) Vidensk.
Meddel, Kjobehavn.
Includes a revison of the tropical American species of Echinaster.
1872.
Alexander Agassiz.
Echini of the Eastern Coasts of the L^nited States together with a report on the deep sea Echini collected in the straits of Florida by L. F. de Pourtales Assist., U. S. Coast Survey in the years 1867-1868.
Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., Vol.
Ill, Part II.
23 1874.
Tlie Zoological Results of the Hassler Expedition.
i. Alexander Agassiz and L. F. de Pourtales.
Echini Crinoids and Corals.
ii.
Theodore Lyman.
Ophiuridpe and Astrophytid?e, including those dredged by the late Dr. Stimpson.
Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., Vol.
IV.
Includes descriptions of West Indian species.
1878.
Edmund Perrier.
Etude sur la repartition geographique des Asterides.
Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
Hist.
Nat.
(2) t. 1, p. 1.
187Jt.
Richard Rathbun.
A list of the Brazilian Echinoderms with notes on their distribution, etc.
Trans.
Conn. Acad, vol.
5, p. 139.
1879.
Reports on the results of dredging, under the supervision of Alexander Agassiz, in the Gulf of Mexico, by the United States Coast Survey steamer " Blake," Lieut.-Commander C. D. Sigsbee U. S. N. commanding.
II, Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
vol.
5, p. 181.
Alexander Agassiz.
Report on the Echini.
L. F. de Pourtales.
Crinoids and Corals.
Theodore Lyman.
Ophiurans.
1881.
Alexander Agassiz.
Report on the Echinoidea dredged by H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-1876.
1882.
Theodore Lyman.
Report on the Ophiuroidea, dredged by H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-1876.
1882.
Hubert Ludwig.
Verzeichniss der von Prof. Dr. Ed.
Van Beneden an der Kiiste von Brasilien gesammelten Echinodermen.
Mem.
Cour.
Acad.
Roy.
Belgique, Vol.
XLI V, No.
5.
1883.
Alexander Agassiz.
Reports on the Results of Dredging under the supervision of Alexander Agassiz, in the Gulf of Mexico (1877-78), in the Caribbean Sea (1878-79) and along the Atlantic Coast of the United States (1880), by the U. S. Coast Survey Steamer " Blake."
Report on the Echini.
Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., Vol.
X, No.
1.
1884.
Ed.
Perrier.
Memoire sur les etoiles de mer recueillies dans la mer des antilles et le Golfe de Mexique.
Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
Hist.
Nat.
(2), t. vi.
1885.
Richard Rathbun.
Report upon the Echini collected by the U. S. Fish Commission Steamer " Albatross" in the Caribbean Sea andGulf of Mexico, January to May, 1884, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., Vol.
viii, p. 83.
Report upon the Echini collected by the U. S. Fish Commission Steamer " Albatross" in the Gulf of Mexico from January to March, 1885, ibid.
p. 606.
1886.
Hjalnuir Theel.
Report on the Holothuroidea dredged by H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-1876.
Includes faunal lists and description of West Indian species, 1886.
Hjalniar Theel, Report on the Holothuroidea, dredged by the " Blake."
Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Vol.
xiii, p. 1.
Report upon species collected in the West Indian region.
1887.
H. F. Nachtrieb.
Notes on Echinoderms obtained at Beaufort, N. C. Johns Hopkins University.
Studies from the Biological Laboratory, Vol.
iv, p. 81.
1888.
Angelo Heilprin.
Contributions to the Natural History of the Bermuda Islands.
Proo.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
p. 309.
1889.
W. Percy Sladen.
Report on the Asteroidea collected by H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-1876.
Includes faunal list and description of West Indian species.
Explanation of Plate VIII.
Fig.
1.
Holothuria Heilprini, side view, natural size.
Drawn from the contracted alcoholic specimen.
Fig.
2.
Perfect table viewed from the side, above and below.
Fig.
3.
Imperfect table from around the disks of the pedicels, viewed from the side.
Fig.
4.
Rib-like rods of the papillse.
Fig.
5.
Two segments of calcareous ring.
Fig.
6.
Rosettes.
Fig.
7.
Holothuria Silamensis.
Two segments of the calcareous ring.
Fig.
8.
Rib-like rods of the papillae.
Fig.
9.
Rosettes.
Fig.
10.
Holothuria nitida.
Perfect table, viewed from the side, above and below.
Fig.
11.
One of the imperfect tables occurring around the disk of the pedicels, viewed from the side.
Fig.
12.
Rib-like rod from the papillse.
Fig.
13.
Two segments of the calcareous ring.
Fig.
14.
Small common rosettes.
Fig.
15.
Larger uncommon rosettes.
Fig.
16.
Echinaster Brasiliensis natural size, dorsal surface.
Fig.
17.
Ventral surface.
Fig.
18.
A portion of the ventral surface, enlarged two diameters to show the three rows of ambulacral spines.
Fig.
19.
Thyraster serpentarius.
Portion of the dorsal skeleton of an arm, enlarged about four diameters.
Fig.
20.
Portion of the ventral skeleton of same.
Fiff.
21.
Portion of the lateral skeleton of same.
October 7.
The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair.
Thirty persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — " Eocene ]\Iollusca of the State of Texas."
By Prof Angelo Heilprin.
"The Fossils of the Orizaba Marble of Mexico."
By Prof. Angelo Heilprin.
The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing a paper entitled "On the Influence of Previous Pregnancies on Offspring," by Charles Morris, in a medical journal to be selected by the author.
Beroe on the New Jersey Coast.
— Prof. Leidy exhibited drawings of a Beroe, which he had observed in considerable numbers in Little Egg Harbor, at Beach Haven, N. J., the end of last August.
In swimming, it ranged from an inch to about four inches in length ; the larger ones being red, the smaller ones much paler or even colorless, while occasionally some of intermediate size appeared yellowish.
It w^as compressed cylindrical, prominently ribbed, domed at top and truncate at the mouth.
kSpecimens caught and kept in a dish became shorter, proportionately broader and to a variable degree more bulging above.
The ciliated ribs, or ambulacra, were variably prominent and the intervals variably concave or convex in accordance with the contractile movements of the body and the projection of the ribs.
The mouth was elliptical and as wide as the body, but contractile so as to become narrower.
All the ribs extended from the summit of the dome to the margin of the mouth.
The coloring was superficial and especially well marked in the course of the ambulacral vessels and their lateral ramifications.
The endoderm was colorless, as were also the lateral gastric vessels beneath it.
Sevei'al individuals w^ere taken with masses of colorless jelly in the stomach, seemingly portions of Cyanea arctica, fragments of which occurred abundantly on the open sea coast in the vicinity.
The summit of the body of the Beroe, the seat of the sense organs, appeared specially sensitive, as on near approach of an instrument without touching, it would suddenly retract and become depressed.
At night, on irritation of the Beroe, it displayed brilliant bands of light with iridescent hues streaming along the ribs, but not elsewhere.
The New Jersey Beroe is probably the same as that found on the New England coast, described by Agassiz as Idyia roseola (Contrib.
pi.
I, figs.
1, 2); very like the Beroe ovata, of the Mediterranean, of Chun, (Die Ctenophoren des Golfes von Neapel, pi.
xiv, fig.
1), which seems to accord with the B. Forskalii of the Regno Animal, pi.
56, fig.
1, but not that of the latter author.
Eschscholtz describes Beroe ovata, from the West Indian seas, as a large colorless species with only two of the ribs reaching the mouth, (System der Acalephen, p.
36.)
The aboral view of our Beroe is like that given of B. Forskalii in the Regne Animal, fig.
lb, and those of Idyia roseola, fig.
99 and Idyiopsis Clarkii fig.
J 02, in the Contributions of Agassiz.
October 14.
Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair.
Twenty-six persons present.
October 21.
The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair.
Eighty-three persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — " Note on the soft parts and dentition of Stomatella."
By H. A. Pilsbry. "
Notes on some Entozoa."
By Joseph Leidy.
October 28.
The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair.
Ninety-one persons present.
The death of Prof Wenzel Gruber, a correspondent, was announced.
A paper entitled " An attempt to illustrate some of the primary laws of Mechanical Evolution," by John A. Ryder, was presented for publication.
Messrs Chas.
S. Welles and Thomas B. Harned and Miss Ida Keller, Ph.
D. were elected members.
Prof Ernst Haeckel of Jena and Prof. Edw.
L. Greene of Berkeley, Cal.
were elected correspondents.
The following were ordered to be printed : — TROCHID^ffil, NEW AND OLD.
BY H. A. PILSBRY.
Since my monogruph of this family^ was written, a number of specimens inviting notice have come into ray hands.
Monodonta labio Linne, var.
granulata Pilsbry.
I have received from two sources specimens of a Monodonta referable to labio, but having an interstitial row of granules in each interliral groove ; these intervening grained lirai becoming almost as prominent as the principal ones on the last whorl.
The number of granose lirre is thus about doubled, giving quite a distinct aspect to the shells.
This is the more remarkable from the fact that in the large suite of 31. labio before me Fi^?T^ last year, none showed any trace of granose interstitial lirulre.
The color is uniform ashen, one shell showing small subsutural purple spots.
All of the lira are markedly granose.
Monodonta neritoides Philippi.
This shell I placed in the Section Neodiloma of the genus Monodonta, in the Manual of Conchology, although with considerable doubt.
From an examination of specimens recently presented to the Academy by Mr. John Ford, it becomes obvious at once that both M. neritoides Phil, and M. perplexa Pilsbry belong not to Neodiloma but to typical Monodonta; being furnished with a strong tooth at the base of the columella.
The description of Philippi applies to the specimen before me except that this has a green streak outside the columella, and is larger ; alt.
14, diam.
16 mm.
The aperture is much more oblique than in any other toothed species of Monodonta, except the M. perplexa, a shell closely allied to neritoides, differing in color-pattern, the more elevated acute spire, and the obvious spirals visible on the whorls and within the mouth.
Dunker's figures of neritoides (Index Moll.
Mar.
Jap.
pi.
6, figs.
22, 23) are much more globose and smaller than Mr. Ford's example, but agree well with numerous specimens before me collected by Mr. Frederick Stearns in Japan.
See also Manual of Conchology, xi, p. 468, pi.
38, figs.
20, 21.
1 Manual of Conchology, 1st series, vol.
XI, 18S9.
Euchelus alabastrum Keeve.
This shell has the globose-conical form common to the more elevated species of the genus.
The aperture occupies less than half the altitude of the shell.
It is umbilicate, solid and thick, the surface lusterless and chalky-white having a few dark dots on the spiral carinse.
The sculpture consists of elevated spirals, flange-like and curling upward, with a very beautiful fine crenulation on the concave upper surfaces of the flanges.
The third spiral is Fig.
2. at the periphery of the body-whorl ; below it there are six spiral cords, the lower four exquisitely serrated, the last one within the edge of the funnel-shaped umbilicus.
The whorls of the spire are tri-carinate ; sutures excavated.
The mouth is very oblique, closely lirate within ; columella nearly straight, toothed near the base.
Alt.
17, diam.
16.1 mm.
; oblique alt.
of mouth 13 mm.
This form was badly described by Reeve in P. Z. S. 1854, p. 209.
It has not been noticed by subsequent authors.
As it is so wellmarked a species, it seems worth while to have a recognizable description and figure published.
The habitat is Diego Garcia, a little island near Mauritius.
The specimen figured was given me by Mr. C. W. Johnson.
