ON THE EXTERNAL CHARACTERS OF FETAL REINDEER AND OTHER NOTES.
BY R. W. .SHUFELDT M. D. Mr. Lucien M. Turner on the 20th of May 1884 collected at Fort Chimo Ungava District Hudson's Bay two specimens of foetal Reindeer or Woodland Caribou Rangifer tarandus caribou Kerr one being a male and the other a female.
They were taken from slain does  one from each and within eighteen days of delivery and at once consigned to strong alcohol the tank containing them being sent to the Smithsonian Institution at AVashingtou.
Early in February 1886 Professor Baird sent them to the writer then residing at Fort Wingate New Mexico for anatomical description  owing to the fact however that my investigations upon the osteology of arctic birds then engaged every moment of my available time they were not examined until nearly the middle of June of the same year.
Altliough they had been in spirit two years they were found to be in excellent condition and I at once made the drawing of the head of the male which illustrates the present paper.
As will be seen further on the male fawn of this pair is somewhat larger than the female with which it differs in several minor details other than those pertaining to the organs of sex.
The male subject I found to possess a very full coat of soft fine hair which completely covered its body extending up to the lips and snout and well inside of the external ears.
In the median line in front from below the jaw to the root of the neck this hair is so long as to form a conspicuous beard becoming longer as we proceed towards the lastnamed locality where it is the best developed.
About the muzzle this hair is of a dark llackishbrown color which shades off as we advance towards tiie forehead and again becomes darker around the eye.
The ears are completely covered with a coat of soft fur of a light brownishclay color darkest at their bases and shading off toward their tips.
The remainder of the hair of the head is of a fawnbrown which color extends down on the neck but as we come on to the body this changes to a dark chocolatebrown above and a claycolored brown on the lower parts and abdomen.
The limbs are of about the same shade as the back and the tail which is well developed is dark above and lighter beneath.
No pure white occurs upon either of the specimens.
Left lateral view of the head of foetal Reindeer .
tarandus caribou.
A much reduced copy made by the author from his lifesize colored figure.
Unfortunately the eyes were found to be nearly destroyed for any purpose and it was not only impossible to tell the color of the irides but the long keeping had rendered them useless for anatomical description.
All of the hoofs were found to be fairly well developed except at their anterointernal tips where the hornsubstance had been of such a delicate and elementary character as to have become quite shrunken and wrinkled by the action of the alcohol.
These remarks apply equally well to the condition of the hoofs of the posterior rudimentary digits of which as usual there are two at the back of each foot.
Either external nostril is an aperture of considerable size and viewed from above it is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the body while seen upon lateral aspect it is oblique with its posterior commissure the hirher.
Eyelashes are well pronounced on the eyelids especially on the superior ones being best developed on the middle of the lid and becoming shorter as we proceed in the direction of either canthus.
A portion of the umbilical cord remains attached to either one of the specimens but the placentae were not sent with them.
The theca of the penis is attached to the abdomen to within 4'4 centimetres of the umbilical cord beyond which it is pendant and in this young specimen was found to completely ensheathe the organ which it contains.
This theca is very well covered with rather long hair of a bright clay color.
At this age the testicles have not as yet descended and in the subject now under consideration the scrotal sack is small and shrunken.
All of the hoofs are of a clear horn color.
Caton found the  tarsal gland large  in the adult of this species and says of it that on the Woodland Caribou the tuft of hairs over the tarsal gland also has its characteristics which enable one who has studied it to readily recognize it though it is more variable in size and shape than on the moose.
 The hairs composing the tuft occupy a descending position.
From the upper end the tuft commences t6 rise up gradually and so continues to the lower end where the elevation is greatest.
The length of this tuft is two inches while the breadth is one inch and three lines.
The middle of this tuft is a yellowishwhite for a horizontal extent of two inches and a vertical extent of one inch and three lines.
The greatest diameter of the white portion is near the lower border of the tuft.
Below the white portion the tuft shades down to the olivebrown of the rest of the leg.
It occupies the internal cavity of the hook posterior to the central part.
It is not quite so large in proportion to the size of the animal as on most of the other species neither is it much below them in relative size.
It is not so exactly alike on each individual of this species as it is on the smaller species.
' 1 Caton John Dean The Antelope and Deer of America New York 1877 pp.
2.5354.
Mr. Caton in comparing the above condition of these glands with the European Reindeer found that they correspond in all essential particulars.
In this connection I would like to say that at the time my disections were made upon these fawns my library and my facilities for consulting books were limited.
Mivart's Cat  the works of Owen Flower Oldfield Thomas Chauveau Huxley and a number of others were however in my field library.
Doctor John Dean Caton was at that time in Monterey California and I wrote him for a copy of his excellent volume upon The Antelope and Deer of America just cited  and it is my desire to express to him here my grateful thanks for his having telegraphed to his son at his home in Chicago with the effect of placing a gift of the volume very promptly in my hands for use.
This description answers very well indeed for both the position and appearance of this tarsal gland and its tuft in the foetus.
Here however the gland is quite rudimentary and the tuft is proportionately smaller.
The color of the hair seems to agree with Mr. Caton's description also  but so diminutive are these glands in this young subject that little can be learned about them from the exterior and a study of their internal structure falls within the domain of the histologist rather than that of the anatomist.
I have failed to discover any metatarsal glands or interdigital ones in this subject.
The authority just quoted found them in the hind feet only and if they are present in the foetus in my hands they are exceedingly rudimentary.
Mr. Caton calls attention too in the adult to a white band surrounding the top of each hoof  this is likewise absent in my specimens.
The adults of this Caribou make considerable use of their accessory hoofs and these are  subject to muscular control   such a condition seems to be foreshadowed in the foetus especially in the feet of the anterior limbs where the accessory hoofs are large and situated low down.
Previous to cutting down upon this specimen b I made careful drawings of the tarsus and foot of the anterior and posterior limbs together with the form of the tail  and these are here reproduced as drawings illustrating this paper.
Passing next to the consideration of the female specimen we find that beyond the sexual differences as pertaining to the organs of reproduction and being rather smaller in size it presents us with no special departures in its general appearance either as regards color or form from the male just described.
Perhaps the coat of the female may be a shade lighter and the hair down the median line of the throat beneath is not quite so conspicuously long.
The vulva and external genitals have advanced to a point of development that we might expect in a ruminant of this tender age and offers nothing for special remark.
It is fairly well covered by the tail.
Most foetal mammals at this age show a prenatal emaciation which in these sjecimens has been enhanced by the action of the alcohol upon their delicate tissues and muscles.
I did not think it necessary at the time to weigh either of these specimens for the reason that they were saturated by the alcohol and that other changes must have taken place in them which would render such data of but little or no use.
228 1891.
Such .strictures however do not apply to careful measurements of external part.
Of these I have quite fully availed myself and they are presented in the subjoined table.
Fig 2A.
Inner aspect of the right tarsus metatarsus and foot of the anterior limb of a foetal Reindeer A tarandus caribou.
B.
Corresponding aspect and parts of the hinder limb same specimen.
The tarsal gland is here seen covered by it 1 ghter colored tuft of hair.
C. Superior aspect of the tad of the same specimen.
The under side of the tail in this foetus is of a light brownish fawn color while above it is rather of a chestnut shade.
It is white on the lower side in the adult.
Figures all drawn by the author from the subjects and much reduced.
3ea.surements of foetal specimens of JR. tarandus caribou Alcoholics eighteen days prior to hirth  Total length including tail Girth immediately behind the arms.
Length of head MALE.
FEMALE Cms.
Cms.
71.00 70.00 35.00 32.00 17.00 16.8 2.00 2.00 9.5 9.2 8.00 7.8 8.5 8.3 5.00 5.00 .6.00 15.3 8.2 7.2 Length of nostril Between the eyes Height of ear From anterior canthiis of eye to tip of nose Between the ears.
Girth of middle of neck Length of tail All the measurements were taken previous to making any of the dissections.
Other things being proportionately equal it will be observed that girth of neck  and length of tail  conjtitute the greatest differences.
INIyological Notes.
A complete dissection of the muscular system of these fawns was not made by me for the reason or rather reasons that my labors at the time were cut short by the operation of certain laws or customs to which I was subservient and over which I had no personal control and which at the same time were hostile to the prosecution of researches in anatomy.
In the meantime and at a later period this material passed out of my hands as more general work engaged me and I returned it to the Museum.
The description of such muscles as I was enabled to work out however is fully worthy of record as so many facts for the guidance of laborers in the same fields in the future.
Moreover reindeer are being rapidly exterminated and any notes upon their morphology are sure to be of value in time to come.
Dermal System of Muscles.
 In this foetal specimen the group of cutaneous muscles whose function it is to act upon and agitate the skin covering certain areas of the body are as yet but feebly developed.
We can make out however without difficulty the following   The platysma myoides is quite conspicuously developed being carried on the skin over the sides of the face as far forwards as the nasal region where no doubt it assists in the twitching movements of the skin about the nose.
In the midanterior region of the neck it becomes quite thick especially in the line of integument which supports upon its outer aspect the elongated hair there found in this animal.
Its fibres become very pale as they spread out over the dorsal aspect of the neck and the entire muscle is lost and fades away as we pass to the region of the shoulders and upper thoracic area.
The panniculus carnosus or that great muscular envelope the function of which is to act upon the integuments of the entire trunk is here but moderately displayed.
I dare say though that in the adult reindeer this interesting muscle will be found fully as well developed as it has been described by several anatomists of the horse and by others in the Felidce.
In this fcetus it is best marked where it is intimately attached to the lateral integuments of the thorax and abdomen and over the abdomen itself.
In the median line from a short distance in front of the umbilicus to a point well upon the sternum it arises from a thin fascia more or less intimately connected with the skin by its outer surface and to the external oblique by its inner.
Posterior to this the fibres are in the skin and radiate from the periphery of a circle surrounding but lying without the umbilicus.
The posterior border of the muscle is thick and extends toward the thigh while for the rest the fibres spread out closely connected with the skin over the sides of the lower thoracic region and the abdomen and the lateral aspects of the thigh.
It does not seem to meet in this young subject the fellow of the opposite side along the dorsum.
But from its rounded carneous margin the fibres appear to merge into a delicate fascia which extends over this region and down the sides of the thigh.
In the integuments overlying the sacral area however the carneous fibres appear again and can be faintly traced as far as the root of the tail.
Chauveau in describing theffljAntcwYus carnosus of the horse says  This muscle has besides a very remarkable insertion into the humerus which was noticed by G. Cuvier in his ' Lecons d'Anatomie comparee' and which appears to have been omitted at least so far as Solipeds are concerned in every treatise on veterinary anatomy.
The following is what we have often observed in this respect  On reaching the posterior border of the ulnar mass of muscles the panniculus divides into two superposed layers  one superficial is carried to the muscles of the anterior member  the other deep soon terminates by an aponeurosis which is united to the great pectoral muscle and is bordered at its upper margin by a nacreous aponeurotic band which penetrates between the thorax and the muscles of the arm to be fixed to the small trochanter.'
1 Chauveau a.
The Comparative Anat.
of the Domesticated Animals 2nd Ed.
1884 N. Y.  trans and ed.
by G. Fleming p. 187.
A very similar arrangement I find to exist in this foetal reindeer but its seems to me that the dermal system can only claim that layer which is here confined to the skin and which by its fascial extensions it has the power of twitching over the anterior and upper part of the chest and on the forelimb.
Intimately connected with this and with the great pectoral over which it lies is to be sure another layer that here seems to be entitled to rank with the more imjwrtant muscles of the front of the chest.
It arises from the fascia over the median line of the sternum and is closely connected with the skin above which covers it.
We find its insertion however not upon the small trochanter but upon the shaft of the humerus at the internoanterior aspect of the summit of its distal third above the internal condyle.
Before arriving at the point of  insertion the fibres of the muscle converge to form a flattened fasciculus which passes down between the muscles of the arm.
Undoubtedly by its contraction this muscle can in connection with the true dermal layer alluded to above and with which it is associated act upon the skin of these parts but I am strongly inclined to believe that it represents one of the pectoral muscles as they have been described in the cat.
Mivart in his anatomy of this animal divides the pedoralis into Jive portions and of the insertion of the second portion he says  It is inserted into the outer side of the deltoid ridge of the humerus and extends down between the biceps and brachialis anticus to the summit of the lowest third of the humerus.
In this reindeer the outer margin of this muscle for its proximal twothirds is attached to the fascia dividing the muscles at the inner side of the brachium.
Il is very evident that in the adult this muscle will act powerfully both on the humerus and the anterior chest walls while when the animal stands at rest the action of its more superficial fibres can be made to agitate the integuments of the parts.
Be this as it may I will not enter upon a second description of the muscle here though I think strictly speaking it should be regarded as an auxiliary pectoral and not as one of the dermal system proper.
Of Certain Muscles of the Head.
 Considering the tender age of the subject before us the musculature of the ear eye mouth and face is very well developed.
1 Mivart St. George F. R. S. The Cat New York 1881 page 145.
This work I find lo be an exceedingly useful one to those engaged upon dissections of the Mammalia.
The nnjrtiformis muscle seems to be unsually large and of an irregular quadrilateral form.
It arises from the side of the nostril and being firmly connected with the skin its fibres descend downward and backward to be lost in the dense tissues of the upper lip.
The orbicularis oris is as a sphincter of the mouth or lips a very feebly developed muscle here and great care is required to trace its delicate fibres in the tissues where they lie hidden.
The levator lahii superioris alteque nasi on the other hand is perhaps the most conspicuously developed of all the facial muscles in this young deer.
It arises from the malar and superior maxillary bones and its fibres forming a strong flat muscle pass directly forwards closely connected with the Integument and above the alveolar process of the upper jaw to become blended with the fibres of the orbicularis oris in the upper lij and are lost upon the ala of the nostril.
The orbicularis palpebrarum is also pronounced but presents us with nothing peculiar or any marked departure from that muscle as we find it among the deer generally.
I have however failed to make out satisfactorily an occipitofroidalis a levator anguli oris a piramidalis and a number of other less imjortant muscles of the face.
In the adult where through use they had become more clearly defined no doubt a number of them could be traced and I see that Professor Mivart has worked them out in an admirable manner in the cat but they need not further concern us here.
The musculature of the eye and ear is considering the age of the secimen very completely advanced and I suspect strongly developed in the case of the former structure in adult life.
The Atfolentes auriculnm are a handsomely developed pair of muscles that nearly meet each other on the median line of the skull between the external ears.
By their action these appendages of the organ of hearing may be powerfully drawn toward each other.
A strong zygomatoauricularis is also seen as we remove the integuments of the head.
It arises from the zygoma and passing backwards and upwards is inserted upon the outer aspect of the pinna.
Other representations of the group of muscles that control the varied movements of the external ear are easily traced and in most cases well defined.
A buccinator can be made out as we trace its delicate fibres in the sides of the lips and as far back as the alveolar processes of the jaws extend.
As usual iu mammals the masseter is divided in two layers the fibres of the outer one passing obliquely backwards while those of the deep portion being more or less vertical.
The muscle arises from the zygoma for its inferoanterior portion and from the malar bone.
Passing down in a way already indicated they become inserted into the outer aspect of the ascending ramus of the lower jaw completely filling the concavity there existing.
A temporal muscle is no larger if as large as the masseter.
Either one fills the shallow temporal fossa at the side of the skull and measuring the distance between their nearest points to each other over the vault of the skull with a flexible tape measure I find them to be separated by an interval of seven centimetres.
The tendon of a temporal is inserted as usual into the coronoid process of the mandible entirely .upon its mesial side.
The pterygoids are welldeveloped muscles but present nothing worthy of especial note in these foetal specimens of our reindeer.
16 NOTICE OF SOME ENTOZOA.
BY PROF. JOSEPH LEIDY.
Distoma crassum Busk.
Cobbold  Proc.
Linn.
Soc 1860 vol.
V p. 5.
Mr. Busk an English surgeon in 1843 announced the occurrence in the intestine of a Lascar or Hindoo seaman who died in London of a large species of Fluke for which he suggested the name of Distoma crassum.
Fourteen specimens obtained ranged from 4 to 6 cm.
long by 17 to 2 cm.
broad.
The same parasite has since been reported as occurring in Chinese and in Europeans living in China. In our Proceedings for 1873 p. 364 I gave notice of a specimen from a Chinese boy which I then supposed to be a larger individual than usual of the more common D. hepaticum.
On several occasions I have had the opportunity of examining some large Flukes from the liver of our Deer Cervus Virginianus and the Domestic Ox which appear to be identical with the D. crassim.
The specimens preserved in alcohol and submitted to me are as follow  Six individuals obtained from the liver of a Doe in the Adirondack Mts.
of New York by Dr. R. A. F. Penrose.
These range from 5 to 6 cm.
long by 1'5 to 25 cm.
broad and I'O to 25 mm.
thick.
Three individuals from the liver of a Calf at Hot Springs Ark. obtained by Dr. G. W. Lawrence.
The specimens much contracted and hardened by strong alcohol measure 3'5 cm.
long by 2 to 24 cm.
broad.
An imperfect one is from 3 to 4 mm.
thick at the broken border  white for half the thickness dorsally and black ventrally.
Two individuals recently received from Texas from Dr. M. Francis Veterinary Surgeon who v.'rites that the monster Flukes occur there in cattle in limited number  in the livertissue and not in the bileducts like the Distoma hepaticum.
The specimens measure 35 and 4 cm.
long by 2 and 25 cm.
broad.
The Flukes from all three hosts accord in character except size and in many points appear closely related with the D. hepaticum.
They are elliptical in outline and of greater proportionate breadth than in the latter.
The oral pole is conical but not abruptly prolonged as in that species.
The caudal pole is broadly rounded and 1 Cobbold Parasites 1879 21. entire or medially slightly emarginate.
The dorsal surface is convex smooth and creamcolored  the ventral surface flat or slightly concave minutely granulate or brownish margined with black due to the vitelline organs shining through.
The oral and ventral acetabula are from 4 to 5 mm.
apart  the former oral about I'o mm.
wide  the latter slightly larger.
Genital aperture midway between the acetabula.
Penis in some individuals exserted as a short tortuous papilla.
The sides of the body extending from near the head to the tail occupied by intensely black dendritic vitelline organs.
The body is less tenacious than in D. hepaticum is soft and easily broken.
Accompanying the monster Flukes from Texas were eighteen specimens of the ordinary LiverFluke Distonia hepatmim up to 3'5 cm.
long by 9 mm.
broad which Dr. Francis observes are very destructive to Cattle and Sheep in some parts of Texas.
The facts related of the recent occurrence of the large Fluke in the Deer and Ox in different portions of the United States would impress one with the idea that the parasite is common with us but in view of its conspicuous character and its not having been previously noticed such is probably not the case.
May there be any relation between the occurrence of the parasite in this country and the influx of a Chinese population
The facts seem curiously coincidental with the first discovery of Trichina in man in England and its subsequent discovery in the hog in this country.
The Guineaworm is believed to have been introduced into tropical America with the Kegro from Africa.
Sclerostomum armatum Rudoljihi var.
major Diesing Syt.
Helm II 304.
Dr. Edward Landis recently submitted to my examination three worms found coiled in as many thickwalled cysts in the lung of a Horse.
These appear to me to be the larger variety of the Sclerastomum armatum usually found occupying the intestines of the same animal.
The specimens all females are from 25 to 30 mm.
long by 15 mm thick at the fore part.
The body is robust cylindrical more tapering behind brownishred annularly striate head domelike defined by an annular stria mouth large surrounded by a prominent annular lip marked by eight radii  tail short conical obtuse.
Ascaris anoura Dujardin Hist.
Nat.
des Helminthes 1845 221.
Leidy  Proc.
A. N.
.
1866.51.
Ascaris attenuata Molin  Prod faunae helminth venetae I860 283.
Ascaris rubicunda Schnyder  Monog.
T. Nematodon 1866 42. From the stomach of a Python P. mohirus which recently died in our Zoological Garden Dr. John L. Hatch obtained a large mass of translucent red and green worms which were submitted to my examination.
These appear to be the Ascaris anoura of Dujardin subsequently described under other names by Molin and Schnyder.
The worms for the most part penetrated the recesses of three larger tumefactions of the mucous membrane of the stomach.
The greater number of the worms Avere immature translucent of a bloodred color with a darker intestine shining through and ranging from 6 to 7 cm.
long by about 0'6 mm.
thick.
The mature females ranged from 10 to 20 cm.
long by 15 to 25 mm.
thick.
The males ranged from 7 to 16 cm.
long by 0875 to 2 mm.
thick.
The body of the worms was most narrowed in advance from pale red to nearly colorless in the largest and deeper to blood red in the smaller ones with the intestine shining through of variable pea green to greenishbrown and dark brown in the latter and with the tortuous ovaries and testes milk white.
Cephalic extremity lighter colored strongly tapering and with distinctly trilobate mouth.
Tail very short conical the length about equal the breadth at base.
The male of more slender proportions with the caudal end incurved and the tail more pointed with a row on each side of ten preanal papillae one on each side of the anus and two rows of two on each side of the tail.
Spicules of the penis long linear curved and equal.
Pharynx long cylindrical clavate  rectum very short.
Worms closely agi'ceing with those of the Python I have observed from two of our common snakes the Hognose Snake Heterodon platyrhinus and the other from the accompanying description supposed to be the Milksnake Ophibolus triangulus.
A portion of the stomach of the latter preserved with the worms show them to have the same habits as those of the Python  partially occupying the recesses of a tumefaction of the mucous membrane.
NOTE ON MESOZOIC MAMMALIA.
BY O. C. MARSH.
I have recently received from Prof. H. F. Osborn a pamphlet entitled  A Review of the Cretaceous Mammalia which is intended as a criticism on two of my papers and is the latest addition to his publications on Mesozoic mammals.
This review contains no new facts and is mainly an application of the author's theories which may in part prove to be true but at present are without substantial basis.
To attempt to refute all the assumptions he makes would involve a long discussion of known Mesozoic mammals and take time from more important work.
A brief notice of a few points therefore must suffice for the present.
The author of this review has never collected any Mesozoic mammals has no specimens of the kind and has only seen a part of those belonging to others who have shown them to him as a matter of courtesy in some cases even when an investigation was intended or in progress.
Of more than a thousand specimens of Cretaceous mammals on which my investigations are based he has not seen a single one and no others are known except a few fragments.
Of several hundred specimens of Jurassic mammals which I have secured in the AVest he has seen perhaps onetenth while of other Mesozoic mammals from this country he cannot have seen in all more than a half dozen specimens.
Prof Osborn's qualifications for discussing Cretaceous mammals may be fairly judged from his papers on other Mesozoic mammals.
One or two examples will make this evident.
He began this work in 1886 by describing two specimens of Dromathermm Emmons and making a new genus of one of them on insufficient grounds.
He criticised Emmons' work especially one figure but this he subsequently modified.
His own figures of one of these fossils agree neither with each other nor with the specimen as a recent comparison shows.
He next turned his attention to the Mesozoic mammals in the British Museum beginning with Tritylodon described and figured by Owen.
Again Prof Osborn did not agree with the original authority but announced that a point of  remarkable interest had not been appreciated by Owen namely a large parietal foramen showing that  the primitive Mammalia of this family at least had a pineal eye of some functional size and value which fact adds to the rapidly accumulating evidence for the reptilian ancestry of the mammals.
A reference to the specimen itself proved that there was no foundation for the announcement and Prof Osborn has since in part corrected it.
Science vol.
ix pp.
92 114 and 538 1887.
The results of Prof Osborn's further study of the MesTzoic mammals in the British Museum were not considered important by some of the best authorities there and some of his observations they disproved in my presence by referring to the fossils themselves.
His figures of these specimens moreover are not accurate and in some cases are misleading as a single example will show.
In his Mesozoic Mammalia Plate YIII he gives a new figure of the type of Phaseolotherium but a comparison with the original specimen shows that this figure is erroneous in at least four important points  namely the first incisor  the crown of the last molar which is wanting in the specimen  the positions of the dental foramen and of the mylohyoid groove.
His method of regarding different isolated specimens as identical and making a  composite drawing of them as representing a single type has led him into serious errors.
This method which belongs rather to metaphysics than to natural science Prof Osborn has again used in the present review and with no better results.
This long review purports to discuss my first and second papers on Cretaceous mammals.
The first thing that strikes the careful reader is the title he gives to these papers.
My own title was a simple one  Discovery of Cretaceous Mammalia and it is only fair to expect in an elaborate review that the title at least will be correctly quoted.
Instead of this Prof Osborn has added two other words giving it a different meaning and quoting it as  The Discovery of the Cretaceous Mammalia.
He read this review in no less than three different cities and published an abstract elsewhere yet apparently had no time to read my title of four words carefully enough to quote it correctly.
A small matter perhaps but proof positive of careless work.
The next point to be noticed is that ray order AUotheria is rejected as not having been defined and a later term Multituhercxdata is adopted because it has been defined.
This direct statement of Prof Osborn is incorrect as my order was defined when proposed in 1880 Am.
Jour.
Sci. vol.
xx p. 239.
The cumbersome terra Multituherculata was not defined when proposed by Cope in 1884 but Prof. Osborn kindly attempted this in 1888.
His definition unfortunately does not include some characteristic forms of the group but takes in accurately the genus Mastodon although this great Proboscidian can hardly be considered a Marsupial.
By way of instruction.
Prof. Osborn indicates what he terms  the main characters of the dentition of the Mesozoic mammals in general and some characters which enable us to distinguish between the teeth of mammals and those of reptiles and fishes.
This is a most promising statement but loses some of its force when Ave find that it has not saved him from precisely these mistakes either in his previous papers or in the present review as I show later.
He is scarcely more fortunate in his announcement of what he regards as the wellknown characters of the teeth of one group the Allotheria.
I have probably seen all the Mesozoic mammals examined by Prof Osborn in Europe and likewise quite a number of others including the type of Stereoffiiathus.
He is certainly wrong in several of his main conclusions and in others there are many facts against him.
A more correct restatement of some of the characters of this group would be as follows  1.
No true Plagianlacidce are known with three rows of tubercles on the upper molars.
2.
No Allotheria are known with certainty to have three rows of tubercles on the lower molars.
A careful study moreover of the known specimens of the true Plagiaulacidce would have shown him the strong probability at least that the genus Bolodon which he makes the type of a distinct family is based on the upper jaws of Plagiaulax  also the probability as I have before suggested that the type of Stereognathus of which he makes another of his numerous families is an upper jaw although described as a lower one.
Bearing in mind these points.
Prof. Osborn's main criticisms are seen to be without foundation and the errors largely his own.
By substituting theory for the actual study of wellpreserved specimens he has placed on record the fact that he seems unable to tell upper from lower teeth in jNIesozoic mammals or the teeth of reptiles and fishes from those of mammals.
There is now conclusive evidence that the Cretaceous molar teeth with three rows of crescents belong to the upper series as I described them.
Prof. Osborn's reference of these to the lower jaw is based merely on theory with only conjecture to support it.
The same fundamental error runs through most of his review and measures the value of his criticism.
Another unfortunate error of Prof Osborn was mistaking the tooth of a Cretaceous reptile for a premolar of a mammal and not only describing and figuring it as such but making this a basis for using even in this review a generic name Menisco'essus against wellknown laws of nomenclature.
This supposed premolar he figured and described in his Mesozoic Mammalia p. 218 and has elsewhere strongly defended its mammalian character.
There is not a particle of evidence of this as every one familiar with similar specimens knows.
Notwithstanding this mistake.
Prof Osborn ventures to assert in this review that a tooth which I described and figured as a molar of a mammal Stagodon has but a single fang does  not resemble the teeth of any known mammal and that the genus was founded upon reptilian or ichthyopsidan teeth.
I distinctly stated that this tooth has two fangs and the bases of these were indicated in one of my figures.
Moreover several wellpreserved specimens since obtained show two distinct roots and other features which prove these teeth mammalian beyond doubt.
In his Mesozoic Mammalia p. 221 Prof. Osborn describes and figures as a premolar a sjecimen which is now almost certainly known to pertain to a fish and not to a mammal.
I have a very similar specimen from the same locality which is pronounced the same species by those who have examined both.
This I purchased many years ago of a wellknown collector in Stuttgart who called it a mammal tooth.
When investigating Mesozoic mammals later I examined this specimen with care and found it to be made up of two portions of fish teeth Hybodus neatly cemented together making four cones on a quadrate base as in the fossil Prof. Obsorn described.
A friend who saw my specimen has since sent me from Europe drawings of a third supposed mammal tooth from the same locality Diegerloch which he considers the same as mine.
The drawings are characteristic and indicate another specimen of apparently the same sort.
Others are probably in existence as the demand for Mesozoic mammals is great and the supply has hitherto been limited.
One or two points more should be mentioned about Prof. Osborn's Avork on Mesozoic mammals  namely his replacing on insufficient grounds scientific names especially those of families and genera by other names of his own  also using the figures of other authors without the usual credit.
As an example of the latter I may cite this use of no less than five of my figures of Jurassic mammals in his memoir on Mesozoic Mammalia.
Prof Osborn in his review alludes to  the extremely complex and confusing dentition  of some Mesozoic mammals and of the truth of this statement his own papers afford many illustrations besides those here mentioned.
What this perplexing subject really needs however is more facts and less theory.
Believing this I have endeavored to secure new facts by long and laborious explorations hoping in this way to clear up some of the confusion which so puzzles fireside naturalists.
The 1500 specimens of Mesozoic mammals I have thus secured fragmentary though most of them are will I trust prove of some service in this work although their full investigation has been delayed by other duties.
No one who has earnest work to do can afford to spend time in the ungracious task of pointing out errors in the work of others.
For this reason I have hitherto said nothing about Prof. Osborn's papers on jMesozoic mammals intending to wait until my own memoir for which I have collected so much material should make it my duty to review the whole subject.
The injustice of his criticism on my preliminary work while in progress made a brief reply necessary  the full discussion I must still reserve for my memoir.
FOSSIL FAUNAS IN CENTRAL IOWA.
BY CHARLES R. KEYE8.
Since the appearance of preliminary statements on the Lower Coal Measures of Central lowa some time ago considerable additional material has been obtained which presents some instructive considerations concerning the distribution of ancient life through that region.
In the article alluded to thirtyfive genera and nearly sixty species are mentioned.
The present paper increases these figures to 51 and 84 respectively.
There still remain many forms not yet sufficiently worked out for incorporation here.
The interest however lies not so much in the numerical increase of the species discovered as in the information imparted in regard to both the geologic and geographic range of the various types within and without the limits of the state  and in the exhibition in many forms of structural features which have hitherto been more or less obscure.
A recent geological reconnaissance of the locality has disclosed a large number of stations where animal life was at one time very prolific.
Several new horizons have been definitely made out on account of which the distribution in time of the various forms is capable of being traced with greater accuracy than has hitherto been possible.
In the earlier studies relating to the fauna of the Des Ioines Coal Measures three striking facts were emphasized in particular.
These may be summarized as follows  1.
In those zoological groups having an optimum habitat marine there Avas not only a fewness of species but also an extreme paucity of individuals.
2.
The Brachiopods though well represented in both genera and species were not as proportionately abundant as might be expected when it is remembered that this type of life had now nearly reached its greatest expansion and culmination.
3.
The fauna was predominantly moUuscan  more than threefourths of the entire number of species being gasteropods and 1amellibranchs.
The later observations fully corroborate the suggestions previously made and add further testimony as to the correctness of the conclusions already set forth.
1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1888 pp.
222247.
Before passing to specific considerations a brief sketch of the stratigraphy is perhaps necessary for a better understanding of the relations of the several faunas of the different horizons.
A somewhat detailed section of the rocks as exposed at the locality in question is represented in the subjoined scheme  General Section of Rocks at Des Moines.
Feet.
In.
26.
Variegated clayey shales ..... 13 25.
Bluelimestone nodular impure weathering brown F 8 24.
Variegated shales ...... 8 23.
Bituminous shales with concretionary masses below F 3 22.
Coal 2 21.
Light yellow and drab shales .... 7 20.
Variegated clayey shales ..... 4 19.
Kodular limestone earthy passing in places into marl highly fossiliferous F ... 06 18.
Light colored and variegated clayshales .
.
5 17.
Impure lim.estone like Xo.
19 but not so fossiliferous F 10 16.
Light colored clayey shales .... 5 15.
Soft micaceous sandstone concretionary in places and passing into sandy shales elsewhere .
.
25 14.
Light colored shales ...... 4 13.
Impure coal ....... 2 12.
Light and darkcolored clayshales ... 20 11.
Bituminous shales highly fossiliferous F. .
8 10.
Coal 2 9.
Fire clay ........ 1 8.
Variegated and sandy shales .
.
.
.
15 7.
Sandstone massive ...... 6 6.
Coal 4 5.
Fire clay ....... 2 4.
Variegated shales sandy in places ... 30 3.
Bituminous shales F. ..... 5 2.
Coal 5 1.
Fire clay 1 The beds above number 15 have been referred to the middle coal measures by St. John.
They carry three thin bands of blue earthy limestone nodular or fragmentary and weathering brown.
Usually fossils are to be found in them often quite abundantly.
About a score of species have been thus far recognized from these layers.
These calcareous bands are quite persistent over a wide area.
The lower two are only five or six feet apart while the third is about twentyfive feet higher.
The clayey material between them appears to decrease in thickness towards tlie southwestward.
The triple calcareous bed exposed at the water's level on the Raccoon river at Commerce eight miles from Des Moines mav possibly represent the three bands.
At that place they are only a few inches apart.
In the immediate vicinity of Des Moines the following species have been obtained from these layers.
It is to be noted that they are all typical marine forms  and that nearly all of them also occur in the dark shales of the lower coal measures as has already been fully shown elsewhere but their numbers and distribution in the lower horizons are very limited.
Rhombopora lepidodendroides Meek.
Productus semireticulatus Martin.
Lophophyllum prolificum McC.
Productus muricatus N.  P. Cyathophyllum torquium Owen.
Productus cora d'Orb.
Eupachycrinus cragini M.  W. Productus costata Sowerby.
Synocladia biseriaiis Swallow.
Spirifera lineata Martin.
Chonetes flemingi N.  P. Spirifera camerata Martin.
Chonetes mesoloba N.  P. Spirifera planoconvexa Shumard.
Rhynchonella uta Marcou.
Spirifera kentuckensis Shumard.
Retzia mormoni Marcou.
Streptorliynchus crenistria Phillips.
Athyris argentea Shepard.
The Middle Coal Measures at Des Moines cannot be well separated from the lower member and the hitherto recognized line of demarkation is perfectly arbitrary.
At best the group is 'of very doubtful utility.
The thickness of the strata referred to the Middle Coal Measures in Iowa is in reality considerably less than was at one time supposed  while the vertical extent of the Lower Coal Measures has been found to be very much greater than it was regarded by White and others who placed it at about two hundred feet.
A carefully made section was recently constructed along the line of the Des Moines River from Harvey in the eastcentral part of Marion county to Des Moines and from the latter place to De Soto along the Raccoon river  a distance of sixtyfive miles.
The detail of the strata from the top of the St. Louis limestone to the base of the UpperCoalMeasureshavethusbeen rather minutely worked out across that portion of the state referred to.
In addition a large number of fossils were obtained from the several horizons so that the vertical distribution of a large number of species was accurately determined within the limits of the region passed through.
That part of the section in the immediate vicinity of the capital city of Iowa received particular attention with reference to the faunal zones.
It is to be noted that in the Lower Coal Measures of the region there is a marked absence of calcareous layers and for this reason the great paucity in the remains of truly marine forms is very marked.
The sandy material is also rather limited  and in it occur no organic remains except those of a few plants.
Argillaceous deposits make up by far the greatest proportion of the formation.
The clayshales are ashen drab or black in color  sometimes also red yellow and blue.
The lightcolored shales are for the most part unfossiliferous though occasionally fern impressions and casts of Lepidodeudron roots are found.
The dark colored bituminous varieties on the other hand are not unfrequently abundantly charged with fossils.
As it has been shown elsewhere the coal of Central Iowa is deposited in numerous lenticular masses of greater or less extent.
These beds may have a horizontal measurement from a few hundred yards to several miles.
Usually a black shale of a few inches or a few feet in thickness immediately overlies the coal basins.
It is these particular layers that are most highly fossiliferous.
In many cases brilliant pyrite has replaced the hard parts of the fossils  but in others the calcareous matter has remained perfectly preserved the pure white shells forming a striking contrast with the black matrix.
Fusulina cylindrica Fisher.
Fusuliiia cylitidrica shr 1837 Oryct.
du Gouv.
de Moscou p. 126 pi.
xviii figs.
o.
Fiisidina cylindrica Owe'n 1852 Geol.
Sur.
Wise Iowa and Minn. p. 130.
Fusulina cylindrica Meek.
 Hayden 1859 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Philada. p. 24.
This is the first recognition of protozoan remains in the Lower Coal Pleasures of Des Moines.
Their occurrence thus far has been confined to a single horizon which is just below the lower member of the socalled middle section of the Iowa Upper carboniferous.
The species is very widely distributed both in time and space in consequence of which many varietal phases would be expected.
There is therefore apparently very good grounds as has been suggested by White for regarding the various forms described as Fusulina depressa F. ventricosaF.
robusta F. gracilis etc. identical with Fisher's species  the slight alleged differences being due rather to local variations in environment than to specific differentiations.
Archseocidaris edgarensis Worthen  Miller.
Archceocidaris edgarensis Worthen  Miller 1883  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
VII p. 337 pi.
XXX fig.
15.
A few primary spines which correspond in all particulars with those noted by NVorthen and Miller from the Upper Coal Measures of Edgar county Illinois have been obtained in concretionary layers overlying a coal seam near the upper part of the Lower Coal division.
Tiie echinoid remains from tlie Upper Carboniferous of America are exceedingly meagre and much additional material is needed for comparative studies.
The urchins of the Lower Carboniferous are much more satisfactory but the great richness of the crinoidal faunas that are always associated has usually caused them to be for the most part overlooked.
As might be readily inferred the remains of echinoderms are of rare occurrence in a locality having the lithological charactei's such as are presented in the district under consideration.
Previous to the present announcement the only known fossils of this group were a few segments of the stem and several brachial plates of Eupachycrinus.
The latter were highly nodose but the nodosity was not extended into such long spines as in E. cragini which was found in limestone bands at the base of the Middle Coal Measures of the same locality.
Chonetes Isevis Keyes.
Chonetes glabra Geinitz 1866  Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 60 t. iv figs.
1518.
Not Hall 18b7.
Chonetes glabra Meek 1872 U. S. Geoh Sur. Nebraska p. 171 pi.
iv fig.
10 and pi.
VIII figs.
8a 8b.
Chonetes Levis Keyes 1888 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 229 pi.
xii figs.
8a 3b.
Chonetes geinitzianus Miller 1890  N. A. Geol.
and Pala.
p. 389.
In the original diagnosis of Ch.
Icevis the statement was made that it was probably the same shell as was described by Geinitz as Ch.
glabra from the Upper Coal Measures of Nebraska.
At that time comparisons could not be made to establish the identity of the two forms with any degree of certainty.
The evidence now at hand leaves little room for doubt in this respect.
Geinitz's name however had been preoccupied by Hall in 1857 for a species from the Upper Helderberg.
Chonetes Icevis being the next available term must therefore be adopted  though Miller has more recently proposed the name Ch.
geinitzianus foithe same shell which title of course must be regarded as a synonym.
Since the discovery at Des Moines of the eight specimens used in the original description large numbejs of this species have been found near the same locality scattered through a bed of bituminous shale fifteen feet in thickness.
These are associated with its near congener Ch.
mesoloha.
The difference between the two species as pointed out in the remarks accompanying the description of Ch.
Icevis holds good throughout the entire series collected.
Inasmuch as some of the specimens often show faint radiating striae it has been suggested that these shells are merely waterworn individuals of other species.
This however does not appear to be the case since large numbers of Ch.
Icevis and Ch.
mesoloba are found intimately associated  and in the latter the radiating stride are very sharply defined and well preserved.
Besides the conditions under which the shells existed show conclusively that all influences of wave action were absent during the burial of these organisms.
According to Meek this species has been recognized in boreal America on the shores of the Youkon river of Alaska.
Chonetes flemingi Norwood and Pratten.
Chonetesjleiningi Norwood  Pratten 1855  Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. vol.
Ill p. 26 pi.
ii figs.
5a5e.
Chonetes verneuiliana Norwood  Pratten 1855 Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. vol.
Ill p. 26 pi.
li figs.
6ae. Chonetes verneuiliana Shumard 1855  Geol.
Sur.
Missouri p. 216.
Chottetes vertieuiliana Meek 1872 U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Nebraska p. 170 pi.
i fig.
10ab.
There seems to be but little doubt that the two forms considered specifically distinct of Norwood and Pratten and by them called Chonetes flemingi and Ch.
verneuiliana are identical.
Careful comparisons of a large number of these forms from various localities in central Iowa show every conceivable gradation between the two socalled species.
The peculiarities of Ch.
verneuiliana as oppo.sed to those of Gh.
flemingi appear to be chiefly due to local difterences of station.
Moreover the types of Norwood and Pratten's Ch.
verneuiliana seem to be somewhat abnormal in their growth and therefore do not present the most characteristic features of the form.
Rhynchonella uta Marcou.
Terebratula uta Marcou 1858  Geol.
N. A. p. 51 pi.
vi fig.
21ae. Kh.
Camarophorid osagensis Swallow 1858 Trans.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci. vol.
I .
219.
Camarophoria swallovianaixxn'xdLh Trans.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci. vol.
I p. 394 pi.
xifig.
la.
e. Camarophoria globuhna Geinitz 1866 Garb und Dyas in Nebraska p. 38 t. iii fig.
5 not C. globuhna Phillips 1834.
Khynchonella osagensis Meek 1872  U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Nebraska p. 179 pi.
i fig.
9.
Rhynchonella osagensis Meek  Worthen 1873  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
  p. 571 pi.
xxvi fig.
22.
Rhynchonella uta White 1875  E.p.
and Sur.
100 merid. vol.
IV pt.
i p. 120 pi.
viii fig.
4.
The form under consideration is one of very wide distribution.
The range of variation is quite extensive as is attested by the uumer.
ous specific terms that have been applied to it.'
Reference to a large series of specimens from localities widely separated geographically appears to indicate that the synonymy of the species as already given is probably correct though other names may yet be included.
Notwithstanding the fact that Terehratula tita and Rhynchonella osagensis were proposed the same year Marcou's name has priority of several months as has been satisfactorily shown by White.
Geinitz referred this same form to the European Camarophoi'ia globulina Phillips  but at present it does not seem advisable to consider the two forms as specifically identical.
It is not improbable that the shell described by Marcou is the same as certain forms known under other names from the Lower Carboniferous rocks.
Lima retifera Shuinard.
Lima retifera Shumard 1858  Trans.
St. Louis Academy Sci. vol.
I p. 214.
Lima retifera Geinitz 1866  Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 36 t. ii figs.
20 and 21.
Lima retifera Meek 1872 U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Nebraska p. 188 pi.
ix fig.
5.
The specimens collected at Des Moines and referred to this species consist only of a few fragments.
Finely preserved examples have however been found not far from the locality mentioned and hence the species may be properly included in the fauna of the district.
The true generic characters of the forms have not as yet been satisfactorily made out  and it is therefore with some hesitation that they are here allowed to remain under Lima.
Aviculopecten whitei Meek.
Avictdopecten whitei Meek 1872  U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Nebraska p. 19o pi.
iv fig.
11 a b c. In the present state of confusion concerning the specific limits of the various forms of the genus it is difficult to satisfactorily make out the synonymy of the different species.
The large number of individuals already described and referred to the genus will illu.strate how cogent is the necessity for a thorough revision of the group.
Different species have been based upon the right and left valves of the same shell.
Others have attained specific distinction merely upon trivial variations of the  ears  for it is now well known that in the majority of the species of the group these characters differ very much in the two parts of the same shell.
While the Des Moines specimens are manifestly identical with Meek's A. whitei the relationships to other forms cannot at this time be taken into consideration.
Avicula longa Geinitz.
Geii'illia longa Gemz 1866 Carbon und Dyas in Nebraska p. 32 t. ii fig.
15.
Avicula longa Meek  Worthen 1873  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 578 pi.
xxvi fig.
1.
This species occurs very abundantly at Des Moines in the lower portion of the socalled Middle Coal Measures.
It has not as yet been recognized below this horizon at least in Iowa.
Westward the same form is found in the uppermost portion of the Upper Coal Measures and also in the Permian strata of early authors.
It probably has a very much wider geographical range over the Mississippi basin than has hitherto been suspected.
Geinitz has intimated that Swallow's Bakevellia pulchra may be very closely related  but as the description of the latter is so unsatisfactory and is unaccompanied by figures it is not possible now to make out the exact relationships of the two forms.
Macrodon obsoletus Meek.
Macrodon obsoletus Meek.
1871  Rep. Reg.
Univ. W. Va. Macro.ion obsoletus Meek 1875 .
Geo.
Sur.
Ohio Pal.
vol.
II p. 334 pi.
xix fig.
9.
The bivalve under consideration was originally described from the Apalachian region where it appears to be rather widely distributed through Pennsylvania West Virginia and Ohio But it has not before been recognized west of the Mississippi river.
The Iowa shells are somewhat larger than those from the more eastern localities but do not differ essentially from the typical forms of the species.
Meek's type specimen is a good cast showing the characters perfectly.
The shell is radiately striated.
Nucula beyrichi Schauroth.
AhiLtila beyrichi Schauroth 1854  Zeit.
der Deut.
Geol.
Gesel. vol.
VI p. 551 t. xxi fi.
4.
Nuctda beyrichi Geinitz 1866  Garb und Dvas in Nebraska p. 21 t. i figs.
36 37.
Nucula beyrichi Meek  Woilhen 1873  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 589.
As remarked by Meek there is some doubt as to the correct reference of the Auierican forms of the group to the European species of Von Schauroth.
Comparisons of the Iowa specimens of this species and N. pcnva of McChesney give no indication of the identity of the two shells as has been suggested at various times.
One of the most striking differences between the two forms is the forward position of the beaks in the one and the central location of the umbones in the other.
None of the Des Moines shells have been examined internally to ascertain the character of the hinge teeth and muscular impressions.
Schizodus alpina Hall.
Dolabra alpitia Hall 1858 Geol.
Iowa vol.
I p. 716 pi.
xxix fig.
2.
Schizodus alpina Meek  Hayden 1864 False.
Upper Mo. p. 58.
The original locality of Schizodus alpina is Alpine Dam on the Des Moines river.
Hall referred the form with some doubt to 17 Dolahra  and it was not until some years afterwards that Meek  Hayden suggested that the shell belonged probably to Schizodus.
As the specimens occur in Iowa the shells are usually wanting so that only internal casts are commonly met with.
Pleurophorus permianus Swallow.
Peuropionts frmmniis Swallow 1858 Trans.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci. vol.
I p. 192.
Citoionts alasi Gemtz 1866  Carb und Dyas in Nebraska p. 23 t. ii fig.
3.
Not Mytilus pallasi d. Yern. 1845.
Fleuropiorus occidt'tualis 
'Met'kS2 U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Nebraska p. 212 pi.
X. fig.
12.
Not P. occidentalis Meek  Hayden 1858 The Des Moines forms appear to be the same as those described by Swallow as Pleurophorus permianus.
And although the type is a cast the prominent ribs on the posterior slope leave little doubt as to its identity.
The Iowa shells are however well preserved showing all the minute details of structure.
Geinitz's figure 4 on tafel iiin his  Carbonformation und Dyas in Nebraska is manifestly the same form  and cannot be regarded as de Verueuil's Mytllus pallasL Meek however in the IT.
S. Geological Survey of Nebraska refers Geinitz's shells to P. occidentalis of Meek  Hayden  but there now seems to be considerable doubt as to the correctness of this view.
In the Catalogue of American Paleozoic Fossils Miller has assigned all of Geinitz's forms to Meek's P. ohlongus.
This reference is only partly correct inasmuch as Geinitz's C. pallasi embraces two distinct forms.
Pleurophorus subcuneatus Meek and Hayden.
PleuropJiorus subcutteatus leeV.
Si Hayden 1858 Trans.
Albany Inst. vol.
IV p. 81.
Pleurophorus subcuneatus Meek  Hayden 1864 Pal.
Upper Mo. p. 66.
Pleuropherus simplus Geinitz 1866 Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 24 not of V. Keyserling.
There is but little doubt that the form from Des Moines is identical with that figured by Geinitz in 1866 as Pleurophorus simplus of Keyserling.
Meek and Hayden had already described it under P. subcuneatus but their figures are inaccurate and give a very erroneous conception of the real shape of the shell.
This was however corrected by Meek in Dana's Manual of Geology.
Astartella vera Hall.
Astaitella vera Hall 1858 Geol.
Iowa I p. 715 pi.
xxix fig.
1.
The form under consideration was originally described from Iowa but since the appearance of the first diagnosis of the .species more than thirty years ago little has been known of it within the limits of the state.
Although a thorough examination of all the forms described under the genus has not been made the differences as compared with Astarte do not appear sufficiently great to give Hall's term a separate generic rank.
Further comparisons may not however confirm this suggestion and hence until complete evidence is at hand Astartella should perhaps be allowed to stand as a valid generic group.
Dentalium annulostriatum Meek  Worthen.
Denlaliuiu 
annulostriaiwn Meek  Worthen 1870 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 45.
Dentalhwi 
annulostriatum Meek  Worthen 1873  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 589.
Dentalium annulostriatun Keyes 1388 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 234.
On a former occasion the finding of six specimens of this sjecies was recorded.
Since that time a number of additional individuals have been obtained from higher horizons and associated with a similar fiiuna.
The peculiar annular costse which are so prominent and .so characteristic of the species have given rise to the suspicion that these shells should more properly be assigned to a different genus than that to which they are now referred.
However this may be until a more critical study of the shells has been made it is perhaps advisable to allow the form to remain under its original generic title.
The character of the costa
are quite anomalous as compared with the surface markings of the other members of the group while the great prominence of the annulations as usually exhibited is by no means as constant as might be supposed.
In some individuals the rings are only faintly developed and the surface of the shells thus appears nearly smooth.
Dentalium meekianum Geinitz.
Dentalium meekianum Geinitz 1866  Caib.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 13 tab i fig.
20.
Dentalium meekianum Meek  Worthen 1873 Geo.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 590 pi xxix fig.
8.
Dentalium meekianum Keyes 1888 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila  p. 234.
All the species of Dentalium described from the Upper Carboniferous of North America have been recognized at Des Moines.
Half a dozen other forms have been noticed in the Lower Carboniferous of the Mississippi basin while AVhitfield has called attention to a single form from the Upper Helderberg.
The latter is therefore the earliest form of the genus now known from the American continent.
The species here recognized represent three distinct types of the genus the first having the surface ornamentation composed of a series of ridges transverse to the axis of the shell thus forming annular elevations  in the second the costie are much less jDrorainent and are arranged obliquely or spirally  and the third has the ribs running longitudinally.
Dentalium sublaeve Hall.
Dejitaliuvi ohsolelum Hall 1S5S Geol.
Iowa vol.
I p. 724 pi.
xxix figs.
16 17 17a.
Not Schlotheim 1832.
Dentalium sublave Hall 1877 Miller's Am.
False.
Foss. p. 244.
The specimens recently obtained and referred to this species are somewhat smaller than the individuals originally figured by Hall.
The longitudinal costfe are quite pronounced as might be expected in young and wellpreserved shells.
Inasmuch as Hall assigned no locality to the specimens described more or less doubt must exist as to the exact identification of his species.
But as the type specimens were probably among other material from Iowa it is thought that the shells from the central part of the state represent younger individuals of the species in question.
In the original description Hall gave the name D. obsoletum to the form under consideration but that term had been preoccupied by Schlotheim nearly thirty years.
The name was therefore in 1877 changed to the one it here bears.
This type of Dentalium has an exceedingly wide range in both time and space.
Forms almost indistinguishable from the Carboniferous shells of Des Moines are found in the Eocene of the Gulf states and along the Atlantic coast.
Pleurotomaria modesta Keves.
Plettrotoviaria depiessa Cox 18o7  Geol.
Sur.
Kentucky vol.
Ill p. 569 pi.
viii.
figs.
10 lOa.
Not Piissy.
1832 Ptettrotofuaria viodesta Keye 18S8  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci..
Phila. p. 23S.
Pleurotomaria kentuckensis Miller 1890  N. A. Geol.
and Paine. p. 431.
At the time of the original diagnosis of Fleurotomaria modesta it was not known just what relation this form bore to Cox's P. depressa though it was stated that the two Avould probably prove identical.
An examination of material other than that which was used in the previous notes leaves but little doubt that the two forms are specifically the same.
The name Pleurotomaria depressa however was preoccupied by Phillips in 1836 and the term was also used by de Koninck and by Passy.
Modesta therefore becomes the specific designation of the form.
Miller has lately proposed the term P. kentuckensis for the same shell but this name of course can only be placed as a synonym.
In the vicinity of Des Moines this species is now known to have a considerable vertical range.
It occurs near the base of the lower coal measures and extends into the middle coal horizon.
Its geographic range is also quite extensive.
Pleurotomaria carbonaria Xorwood  Pratten.
Pleurotomaria carbonaria Norwood  Pratten 1855 Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 2 vol.
Ill p. 75 pi.
ix fig.
8.
Pleurotomaria carbonaria Keyes 1888  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 2.39.
The original specimens of this species are from Williamson county Illinois.
A very similar form has been described from Newport Indiana under the name of P. newportensis.
Apparently the only difference ascribed is that the latter has its revolving band raised instead of depressed.
Further comparisons may eventually show this character is varietal rather than specific.
This suggestion seems all the more plausible since many individuals which are unquestionably P. carbonaria have the band scarcely sunk below the surface.
Pleurotomaria sphaerulata Conrad.
Pleurotomaria spharulata Conrad 1842  Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. vol.
VIII p. 272 pi.
xvi fig.
12.
Pleurotomaria corcnula Hall 1852  Stansbury Exp.
to Great Salt Lake p. 413 pl.
iv fig.
4 f. 6ad.
This form is the leading member of a widely distributed group of shells which manifestly belong to a single species but which in different parts of its range has received a variety of specific names.
Notwithstanding however the many varietal phases exhibited there is always a peculiar constancy of characters by which the form is readily distinguished from other shells of the genus.
In this country a very large number of species of Pleurotomaria have been described embracing many diverse types.
The same state of affairs also existed in Europe until de Koninck attempted to set aside the prevalent difficulties by breaking up the genus into several groups which in fact are more or less easily separable even according to general shape.
The original genus was thus greatly restricted and the various sections raised to an equal taxonomic rank.
In its main aspects de Koniuck's scheme will doubtless be found very convenient in its application to the American Pleurotomarire.
In this connection it may be further stated that the work along this line has already been partly done and the results thus far reached have been eminently satisfactory.
Pleurotomaria valvatiformis Meek  Worthen.
Pleurotomaria valvatifurmis Meek  Worlhen 1866 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 273.
Pleurotomaria valvatiformis Meek  Worthen 1873 Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 602 pi.
xxix fig.
9.
The form under consideration is the smallest of the group yet observed in the ISIississippi basin.
It apparently belongs to the same section as the large P. carbonaria already mentioned.
The species seems to have a much wider geographic rayge than has hitherto been suspected but owing to its small size has usually escaped notice.
Murchisonia quadricarinata Worthen.
Loxo7ietia quadricaruiattim Worthen 1884 Bui.
2 Illinois State Mus.
Nat.
Hist. p. 7.
Loxonenta quadricarinatiivi Worthen 1890  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
VIII p. 140.
So manifestly different is Worthen's species from the forms of Loxonema that no hesitation is experienced in removing it from the genus under which it was originally described.
While there is a probability amounting almost to certainty of this shell being a true Ilurchisonia all doubts as to its correct reference cannot be entirely removed until the apertural parts which are in no specimens yet discovered perfectly preserved can be throughly examined.
Bellerophon montfortianus Norwood t Pratten.
Bellerophon montfortianus Norwood  Pratten 1855  Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila.. 2.
vol.
Ill p. 74.
Bellerophon 7nontfortianus Geinitz 1866  Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 8 tab.
l.fig.
13.
Bellerophon montfortianus Meek 1872 U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Nebraska p. 225 pi.
xi fig.
15.
Bellerophon montfortianus Keyes 1888 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 235.
Like several other members of this group B. montfortianus is widely distributed over the Mississippi basin  and also through the Apalachian region.
Owing to the extreme delicacy of the shell it is rarely obtained in a good state of preservation.
It may be characterized as follows  Shell with inner whorls rather small  body turn greatly expanded toward the aperture  umbilicus nearly closed  aperture ample more or less distinctly reniform  labial sinus rather narrow deep  revolving band rather constricted well defined and depressed with a narrow median elevation.
Outer lip extremely thin regularly rounded on each side of the central cleft much thickened towards the umbilicus.
Inner lip well marked by a callous accumulation which is particularly prominent towards the middle.
Surface ornamented by numerous fine rounded filiform ribs running longitudinally every third or fourth one of which is much more elevated than those lying between  these are crossed transversely by minute raised stride.
With the exception of the last half of the outer whorl the shell is also marked by large transverse more or less broken ridges on each side of the median sulcus.
This beautiful species appears to be much more abundant in Pennsylvania West Virginia and other portions of its eastern range than in the region west of the Mississippi river where it seems to be largely replaced by closely allied forms.
Bellerophon urii Fleming.
Bellerophon urii Fleming 1828  Brit.
Anim. p. 38.
Bcllerpphon urii Norwood  Pratten 1854 Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. vol.
Ill p. 75 pi.
ix fig.
6.
Bellerophon carho7iarius Cox 1857 Geol.
Sur.
Kentucky vol.
Ill p. 562.
Belleropkoti blaneyavus McChesney 18H0 New Palie.
Foss. p 60.
Bellerophoti carbonariiis Geinitz 1866  Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 6 tab.
i fig.
8.
Bellerophon carbonarius Meek 1872 U. S. Geo.
Sur.
Nebraska p. 224 pi.
iv fig.
IB and pi.
xi lac. Bellerophon urii Keyes 1888  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 236.
The complete synonymy of this species has been given in the publication la.st referred to above and therefore does not require further mention here.
As stated on a former occasion there are apparently no good reasons for regarding the form usually called B. carbonarius as distinct from the familiar and widely distributed European B. urii.
The American shell was early referred to B. urii by Norwood and Pratten  and it was not until some years later that Cox renamed the specimen.
The number of longitudinal carinse is exceedingly variable fifteen to thirty being the usual limits though in very large individuals the costre often exceed the latter figure.
The geographic distribution of this species is very wide.
Aside from its common occurrence in Europe it ranges in America from the eastern slope of the Apalachians to the Rocky mountains.
Bellerophon subpupillosus seems to be merely a local unimportant variation perhaps an abnormal development.
The papillae are often recognizable on some of the Iowa shells.
Certain of the latter individuals show this peculiarity even more distinct'
than the type specimen itself and from this extreme there are all gradations to perfectly smooth surfaces.
Straparollus catilloides Conrad.
Inachus catilloides Conrad 1842 Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. vol.
VIII p. 273 pi.
XV fig.
.
Euomphalus rngosus Hall 1858  Geol.
Iowa vol.
I p. 722 pi.
xxix.fig.
14.
Not E regusos Soweiby.
Slraparollus Euomphalus stibrugosus Meek  Woithen 1873 Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. ti07 pi.
xxix fig.
11.
Euomphalus rngosus White 1884  Geol.
Sur.
Indiana 13th Ann.
Rep. p. 161. pi.
xxxii figs.
11 12.
Euomphalus rugosus Keyes 1888  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 241.
There appears to be but little doubt that the form described by Conrad from the region east of Apalachians as Inachus catilloides and Euomphalus rugosus of Hall are identical.
Although Conrad's original diagnosis is very brief his figure shows clearly what shell he had under consideration.
A careful comparison of a large series of Pennsylvania specimens and those from the Mississippi basin fails to bring out any difference sufficiently great to warrant a specific separation of the shells from the two localities.
This form is commonly known throughout the continental interior under Hall's name.
His designation however is preoccupied by Sowerby  and for this reason Meek  Worthen proposed subrugosus for the specific term.
After all it is very probable that the form in question should properly be regarded as identical with a certain European species  and further comparison may necessitate tlie mergence of the two species now regarded valid.
Straparollus catilloides as now understood is widely distributed geographically being one of the most abundant and characteristic shells of the Lower Coal Measures.
It occurs usually in the dark bituminous shales overlying the coal seams a.ssociated w'ith other gasteropodous species.
It often attains a very considerable size though seldom does the maximum measurement exceed twelve millimeters.
At Des Moines the vertical range of this species is from the base to the top of the Lower division of the Coal Measures  it is also met with in the socalled middle section at Van Meter in Dallas county near the base of the Upper Coal Series  and very probably extends considerably higher.
The form has not as yet been recognized in the Lower Carboniferous of the state but its very different habitat may easily account for its absence.
Straparollus pernodosus Meek A AVorthen.
Straparollus Euoviphahis pernodosus Meek  Woithen 1870 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Plula. p. 4o pi.
xxix figs.
4ac. Straparollus Euofuphahis pernodosus Meek  Woithen 1873  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois VI.
1.
V p. 604 pi.
xxix figs.
I4ac. Euomphalus pernodosus Keyes 1888 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 241.
The species of this group occurring in central Iowa belong properly to the section with angular whorls to which Sowerby gave the generic term Euomphalus.
The relations of tlie forms heretofore generally referred to Sowerby's section and those belonging to Moiitfort's genus Straparollus have already been pointed out at length.'
It has thus been satisfactorily shown that the two genera are practically coextensive and as Montfort's term has priority it must be adopted for the group of paleozoic gasteropods distinguished by having the shell rather thick planorbiform or depressed conical broadly and deeply umbilicated  whorls angular or rounded usually closely coiled but often barely in contact  aperture sharply pentagonal or subcircular  labium generally sharp.
The surface of the volutions is for the most part smooth or showing only numerous lines of growth  but sometimes with one or more distinct longitudinal carinse.
In Iowa the transition forms between the two .sections above alluded to are fully represented in certain species of the Kinderhook and Burlington formations.
The gradations are complete from those species having elevated spires and rounded volutions  like S. macromphalus AVinchell  to those with depressed spires and angulated whorls  as S. roberti White.
In the latter examples the turns are flattened above and the extremity of the spiral portion situated midway between the upper and lower planes of the volutions.
The shell is thus perfectly planorbiform with one side angular and the other rounded.
Naticopsis nana Meek it Worthen.
Piatytoma nana Meek  Worthen 1860 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 463.
Naticopsis nana Meek  Worthen 1856 Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
II p. 365 pi.
xxxi tig.
4.
This minute form was originally described under Platystoma  and there is yet reason for believing that it may actually belong to that grouj instead of Naticopsis as Meek  Worthen afterwards thought.
Should further study indicate that the species is actually a member of the first group its name becomes Strophostyhis nana since it has been recently shown that Stropliostylus must be applied to the Platystoma section as founded by Conrad.
Trachydomia wheeleri .'wallow.
Littorina r'tv.fr Swallow 1860 Trans.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci. vol.
I p. 658.
Naticopsis Trachydomia wheeleri Meek  Worthen 1866 Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
II p. 364.
Naticopsis wheeleri Meek  Worthen 1873  Gsol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 595 pi.
xxviii fig 3.
1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci  Phila. 1889 p. 291 also Am.
Geol. vol.
V. p. 193197.
Naticopsis ivheeleri White 1884 Geol.
Sur.
Indiana Ann.
Rept.
for 1883 pt.
ii p. 162. xxxii figs.
13 14.
Trachydomia nodulosa Worthen 1884  Bui.
No.
2 Illinois State Mus.
Nat.
Hist. p 8 Trachydomia 'wheeleri Keyes 1889  American Geologist vol.
IV p. 195.
Trachydottiia ivheeleri Keyes 189  The Nautilus vol.
IV p. 30.
Trachydomia ncdulosa Worthen 1890  Geul.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
VIII p. 146 pi.
xxiii figs.
11 11a.
Trachydomia was originally proposed by Meek  Worthen in 1866 as a subgenus of Naticopsis McCoy.
It is now believed that the characters are sufficiently well marked to admit of a distinct generic separation from McCoy's genus.
The chief features distinguishing the two sections as recently made out may be here briefly restated.
In Naticopsis proper as represented by the typical forms and by the majority of American species referred to the genus the shells are relatively thin  the spire very short  the outer lip extremely thin and sharp  the inner lip also thin and slightly depressed  the last volutions generally more or less distinctly flattened or concave on the upper half and marked toward the suture by numerous small short equidistant costse parallel to the lines of growth.
In contradistinction the shells of Trachydomia are massive with the spire larger and more elevated the outer lip very thick but abruptly becoming sharp  the columella very heavy the calosity thick and greatly extended  the volutions covered with numerous equidistant nodes.
The first species of this group described from the American paleozoic rocks was called by Swallow Littorina wheeleri.
Since the appearance of Swallow's notice three other forms have been given specific names T. nodosa which was regarded by Meek  Worthen as the type of the genus T. hollidayi Meek  Worthen and T. nodulosa Worthen.
Now the known shells of this type have a very wide geographical distribution occurring at numerous places in Illinois Iowa Missouri Kansas and according to White also in New Mexico.
A careful comparison of a considerable number of shells from widely separated localities leads to the conclusion that the known forms of Trachydomia should all be referred to two species  T. wheeleri the one earliest described and T. nodosa.
The various slight modifications in size number of nodes and amount of callous material deposited can all be explained by local differences in environment.
And the complete intergradation of the several forms renders this view necessary.
The callosity of the inner lip often becomes very much thickened in some individuals but this prominence is not conspicuous in the majority of examples.
It is iuteresting to uote iu this connection tliat among the shells from Illinois there are a number in which the coloration of the callous portions and of the interior surface is still visible.
In some cases the color is an intense shining black  in some a purplishblack  in others a dull faded purple  and in a few the color has nearly disappeared.
Aside from the apertural parts all traces of the original coloration of the shells are lost.
Under the ordinary circumstances of fossilizatiou the color could hardly be expected to be preserved excejt in rare cases  and the few' recorded instances of paleozoic species retaining such characters are of peculiar interest.
Aclisina minuta Stevens.
Aclis minuta Stevens 1858  Am.
Jour.
Sci. 2 vol.
xxv p. 259.
Aclisina niinuia de Koninck 1S81  Ann.
de Mus.
Roy.
d'Hist.
Nat.
de la Belgique T. VI.
Aclisina minuta Keyes 1888 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 240.
The form under consideration was first noticed by Stevens as Adis minuta.
In 1881 de Koninck established the genus Aclisina for the Turritilla striatula group of shells which also embraced Aclis minuta and several other American forms.
In this country the shells are all quite minute and at present are unknown except in the Coal Measures.
On account of this small size these gasteropods have usually escaped notice  and it is for this reason probably that they have been reported from so few localities.
As has been remarked elsewhere they occur quite commonly at Des Moines in company with vast numbers of other minute mollusca.
Loxonema scitula Meek .
Worthen.
Lcxc7iema scitula Meek  Worthen I860  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 464.
Loxonema rugnsa Meek iy Worthen I860 Pioc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 465.
Loxonema scitula Meek  Worthen 1866  Geo.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
II p. 377 pi.
XXX i figs.
lOac. Loxonema rtigosa Meek  Worthen 1866 Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
II p. 378 pi.
xxxi figs llac.
There have been described from the Coal Measures of the Mississippi basin several species similar to the one under consideration.
At first glance the vertical costte appear perfectly straight instead of arched as in the more typical forms of the genus.
Upon a closer examination however the ribs are found to curve considerably.
The relatively much larger size of the rounded ridges in this section of the genus as compared with the Devonian forms tends greatly to obscure the actual curvature.
The figures accompanying the reprint of the original description in the second volume of the Illinois Geological Survey are misleading in one particular  that is in having the costse arranged directly above one another on the contiguous whorls.
In the same place the statement is also made that this is the case.
Closer observation has clearly shown that this arrangement is more apparent than real  and that actually the ridges of the different turns are set slightly behind those of the preceding volution  so that in place of forming a perfectly straight though interrupted ridge from the apex to the middle of the bodywhorl the long rounded elevation is somewhat spirally twisted.
The number of costse varies with the size and maturity of the shell.
Usually there are from three to four ribs less on each whorl than on the one immediately succeeding.
Thus the eighth volution may have twentytwo or twentyfour rounded ridges while the fourth has only twelve or thirteen.
Below the middle of the whorls the costag rapidly diminish both in height and breadth and are continued as minute hair lines.
The aperture is oval in outline slightly flattened on the side towards the axis.
The inner lip springs abruptly from the callous portion instead of gradually blending with it at a low angle but otherwise this species possesses all the characteristics of the typical form of Lozonema.
At Des Moines this species has as yet been found only at a single horizon  near the top of the Lower Coal Measures.
Loxonema multicosta Meek  AVorthen.
Loxonema viulticosta Meek  Worthen.
1866  Geol Sur.
Illinois vol.
II p. 378 pi.
xxxi fig.
'l.
The remarks upon L. scitula are largely applicable to this species also.
The costse are much smaller as a rule and they average about onethird more than on corresponding whorls of the other species.
The number on the last volution may thus be thirty or more.
This form is associated with the last and like that species has only been found at a single horizon.
Soleniscus newberryi Stevens.
Loxonema newberryi Stevens 1858  Am.
Jour.
Sci. 2 vol.
xxv p. 259.
Macrocheilus newberryi Hall 1858  Geol.
Iowa vol.
I p. 719 pi.
xxix fig.
1.
SolcniscHS planus White 1881  Expl.
 Sur. W. 100 Merid. Supp. vol.
Ill p. xxix pi.
iv fig.
4.
Macrochilma neivberryi de Koninck 18S1  Ann.
de Mus.
Roy.
d'Hist.
Nat.
de la Belgique t. VI p. 36.
Soleniscus newberryi White 1884  Gsol.
Sur.
Indiana. 13th Ann.
Rep. pt.
ii p. 153 pi.
xxxiv ffgs.
7 8.
Macrocheilus neivberiyi Keyes 1888  Proc.
Acafl.
Nat.
Sci. Phila.. p. 240.
Soleniscus neiuberryi Keyes 1889  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 808Soleniscus newherryi Keyes 1889 Am.
Naturalist vol.
XXIII p. 423 pi.
xx fig.
o.
Considerable confusion has long existed among the shells for which Phillips long ago proposed the name Macrocheilus.
The difficulties encountered in arriving at a correct nominal history of the genus have been recently treated of at length.
The more salient points may be briefly summarized here.
Macrocheilus was founded by Phillips' in 1841.
Under it were arranged six species three of which were Buccinum breve Sowerby .B.tm6ncaf'um Phillips and B. acutum Sowerby.
Phillips however expressly stated that the first two of these properly belong to other groups and that the third was regarded as more typical.
B. acutum hence becomes the type of the genus as it was rightly considered by de Koninck and other European writers.
An examination of many specimens of Sowerby's Buccinum acutum shows that the shell posseses a more or less thickened lip and a prominent revolving fold on the columella.
The latter feature was longago recognized by de Koninck. It thus appears that Sowerby's form is in all respects a typical Soleniscus as defined by Meek and Wurthen  and that therefore this genus and Macrocheilus are identical.
But Phillips' term Macrocheilus was preoccupied by Hope in 1838 for a genus of insects and therefore becomes unavailable.
Conrad in 1842 proposed Plectodylus for a group of fossil gasteropods which evidently belonged to Macrocheilus  but this name also had been used by Beck five years before.
In 1860 Meek and Worthen founded the genus Soleniscus for certain paleozoic shells which now are known to be very clcsely related to the type of Macrocheilus.
Inasmuch as the latter term had been previously used Boyle in 1879 substituted the name Duncania which he afterwards changed to Macrochilina.
From the foregoing it is therefore manifest that the generic title Soleniscus has precedence for the Macrocheilus.
group as typified by Buccinum acutum Sowerby and Soleniscus typicus Meek  Worthen.
1 Palje.
Fuss.
Cornwall p. 1032 Desc.
des Anitn.
Foss.
de Belgique 1844 p. 474.
 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1860 p. 467.
Soleniscus humilis Keyes.
Macrocheilus humilis Keyes 1888 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 239.
Soleniscus humilis Keyes 1889 Am.
Naturalist vol.
XXIII p. 423.
Soleniscus humilis Keyes 1889  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 308.
Macrochilina humilis Miller 189U  N. A. Geol.
 Palas. p. 409.
NVith the exception of the finding of a few additional specimens since the first record of the form no further information has been obtained concerning this species.
Soleniscus gracilis Cox.
Macrocheilus gracile Cox 1857 Geol.
Sur.
Kentucky vol.
Ill p. 570.
Macrocheilus gracile Keyes 1888 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 239.
Soleniscus gracilis Ktyes 1889 Am.
Naturalist vol.
XXIII p. 423.
Soleniscus gracilis Keyes 1889 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila  p. 307.
Macrochilina gracilis Miller 1890  N. A. Geol.
 Paige. p. 409.
Until quite recently this little shell seems to have been generally overlooked.
Even when noticed it has been usually referred to S. ventricosus of Hall.
The two forms are certainly very closely related but whether they will eventually prove identical or not cannot be decided at present.
As remarked in another place the smaller specimens are less ventricose and have the spire proportionally much higher than in older individuals which simulate somewhat Hall's species above alluded to.
As a matter of fact the latter form has been recognized only in a few instances while its name has been applied to a very considerable number of shells which are manifestly quite different specifically.
Soleniscus paludinaeformis Hall.
Macrocheilus paludincEforniis Hall 1858 Geol.
Iowa vol.
I p. 719 pi.
xxix fig10.
Soleniscus paludincefonmssXXeifYSi Geol.
Sur.
Indiana 13th Ann.
Rep. p. ii p. 154.
Soleniscus paludincFformis Keyes 1889 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 308.
Perhaps the only question of synonymy in connection with this species is its possible identity with Conrad's Plectostylus hildreihi.
The type of the latter however appears to be merely an internal cast which fact makes it almost impossible to determine the exact relationship of the two forms.
In any case it is not probable that under these circumstances Conrad's name could in any way be made to supplant Hall's species.
Sphaerodoma medialis Meek  Worthen.
Macrocheilus riediale Meek  Worthen 1860  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 466.
Macrocheilus pulchellum Meek  Worthen I860  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 467.
Macrocheilus inter calare Meek  Worthen 1860  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 467.
Macrocheilus tnediale Meek  Worthen 1866  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
II p. 37t pi.
XXXI figs.
5ab.
ilrtrror7.f Y7i2r
Meek  Worthen 1 866 Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
II p. 371 pi.
xxxii figs.
6ab.
Soleiiiscus rnedialis White 1884 Geol.
Sur.
Indiana 13th.
Ann.
Rep. p. ii p. 156.
Spitzrodoma tnedialis Keyes 1889  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 306.
Macrochilina rnedialis Miller 1890 N. A. Geol.
 Pal. p. 409.
The generic relations of Sphcerodoma have already been fully di.scu.ssed elsewhere.
In contradistinction to the nearest allied genus Soleniscus the shells of this group have the volutions very convex the spire greatly depressed the bodywhorl relatively much larger and the aperture correspondingly ample while the coluraellar ridge is usually very obtuse or not defined.
These forms are commonly found in the calcareous beds while their fusiform relatives occur most plentifully in bituminous shales  the inference is that the former were probably more strictly marine than the latter.
Bulimorpha minuta Stevens.
Loxuneia minua Stevens 1858 Am.
Jour.
Sci. f2 vol XXV p. 260.
Actceoitina viitiuta Meek  Worthen 1873 Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 594 pi.
xxxix fig.
2  ActiEonina tninuta Keyes 1888 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 240.
Bulimorpha minuta Keyes 1889  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 301.
The rea.sons for considering this species under Bulimorpha have already been fully stated.
A further examination of the foim appears to indicate that the inner lip actually is separated from the outer labrum by a distinct notch.
Its nearest ally is therefore B. canaliculata Hall.
In regard to the generic relations it may be said that the as.semblage of which this little shell is one of the members embraces those American forms having the shell fusiform with the spire elongated  the whorls more or less decidedly convex the last rather large  the columella curved abbreviated or truncated at the base  the inner lip often well defined anteriorly and usually separated from the outer by a more or less wellmarked notch  surface smooth.
Accordingly this group would include not only those forms originally comprehended under the genus Buliviella established by Hall but also certain other species.
Some of the forms now recognized as belonging to the section have been assigned to Portlock's Polyphemopsis but there is reason to believe that this term is not correctly applicable to any known American gasteropod.
Hall's Bulimella is preoccupied by Pfeiffer and it is therefore necessary to find some other more appropriate term for the group in question.
Bulimorpha founded by Whitfield is apparently the only available name for these shells but whether this title can be eventually considered valid cannot now be decided.
Bulimorplia 1 chrysalis Meek k Worthen.
Polyphemopsis chrysalis Meek .i Worthen 1866 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila.
 p. 267.
Polyphemopsis chrysalis Meek  Worthen 1873  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 59B pi.
xxviii fig.
7.
Bulimorpha chrysalis Keyes 1889  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. p. 300.
Inasmuch as Polxjphemopsis is not recognized as an American genus the species under consideration can only be referred to Bulimorpha provisionally until its generic position is more definitely known.
The Des Moines specimens are not preserved sufficiently well to indicate the true structure of the anterior part of the shell.
The species someAvhat resembles Soleniscxis newberryi Stevens but according to Meek  AVorthen it does not exhibit the columellar fold so characteristic of that group.
Goniatites nolenensis Co..
GoniatiUs nolenensis Cox 1857  Geol.
Sur.
Kentucky vol.
Ill p. 574.
The single specimen from Des Moines is in an excellent state of preservation and shows the minutest details of structure.
And while it does not agree exactly nth Cox's diagnosis referred to above there does not seem to be any valid reason for regarding it as anything more than merely an individual variation of G. nolenensis.
The Des IMoines specimens come fi'om the base of the Iiddle Coal Measures.
At the same locality but at a horizon considerably lower have been found abundant remains of a large Goniatite having a maximvnn diametric measurement of fully six inches.
None of the.e large shells however have as yet been obtained sufficiently well preserved for accurate descriptive purposes.
Nearly a score of species of Goniatites have been recognized in the coal measure strata of the continental interior.
These are widely distributed geographically from the Rockies to the Apalachians.
Many of them were of large size and rivaled the Xautiloid forms which also flourished throughout the region.
Thrinacodus duplicatus 
Xewberry fe Worthen.
Drploclus duplicalus Ntwherry  Worthen 1866 Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
II p. 51 .
pi iv.
figs.
3 3a.
Thrinacodus duplicatus St. John  Worthen 1875  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
VI p. 289.
The specimens under consideration were obtained at the now abandoned Giant Mine.
They do not agree in all particulars with the typical forms of the species as the denticles are somewhat large more slender and much longer.
They are associated with numerous molluscan shells.
Deltodus intermedius St. John .V Worthen.
Deltodus tnierineditis St. John iM Worthen 1883  Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
VII p. 153 pi.
ix figs.
14 lo.
It is with some doubt that the species in hand is referred to this species which was described from the St. Louis limestone at Pella Iowa.
It corresponds however in all essential particulars.
The results thus far brought out may be summarized in the following.
Synoptical Table of Genera and Species.
Protozoa Rhizopoda genera 1 sjecies 1 Coelenterata Anthozoa  2 2 r Crinoidea n 1 1 Echinodermata  I Echinoidea  1 1 r Bryozoa  1 1 Molluscoidea  I Brachiopoda  10 ' 16 ' Lamellibranchiata a 12  18 Mollusca 1 Gasteropoda  15  31 l Cephalopoda 3 7 Arthropoda Crustacea 2 2 Vertebrata Pisces 3 4 A comparison of the above table with a similar one given on another occasion confirms still more strongly the conclusions arrived at at that time.
The present additions are nearly entirely confined to the true mollu.sks the previously known numbers of genera and species from the locality being nearly doubled  while very little or no gain is apparent in tlie other groups.
18 266 proceedings of the academy of 1891.
May 1.
Special meeting.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
TlHrtysix person
jiresent.
The announcement was made from the Chair that the President of the Academy Joseph Leidy M. D. LLD.
had died tlie 30th nltimo in the sixtyeight year of his age.
Whereujion the following minute was unanimously adopted  The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia desires to put on record its sense of the loss it has sustained in common with the entire scientific world in the death of its President Dr. Joseph Leidy While his work in zoology and palaeontology shed a luster on the Academy and extended its reputation Avherever physical truth is valued throughout the earth his official connection with the society extending over a period of nearly half a century as Curator Chairman of Standing Committees and more recently as President was marked with discretion tact and unswerving integrity and actively' promoted the welfare of every department.
His charity rectitude and humility endeared him to his associates who loved the man while they admired the scholar.
The sorrow experienced by his fellowmembers enables them to sympathize the more deeply with his wife and daughter to whom they desire to convey the assurance of profound commiseration in their irreparable bereavement.
A committee consistmg of Prof Angelo Heilprm Daniel G. Briuton 31.
D. Henry C. Chapman M. D. John H. Redfield and Harrison Allen M. D. was appointed to make arrangements for a Memorial Meeting to be held the 12th inst.
It was resolved that the members of the Academy meet in the liall the 2nd inst.
to participate in the funeral services at the church.
1891.
natural sciexces of philadelphia.
2g7 May 5.
Ir.
Thomas Meehax VicePresident in the chair.
Tiiirtysix persons present.
A paper entitled  Contributions to the LifeHistories of Plants No.
VI by Thomas Meehan was presented for publication.
Dr. Henry C. Chapman was invited to prepare a Biographical Notice of the late Dr. Joseph Leidy for publication in the Proceedings.
May 12.
Memorial Meeting.
Two hundred and thirtytwo persons present.
Rev.
H. C. McCook D.D. Vice President called the meeting to order and then surrendered the chair to his associate VicePresident Mr. Thomas Meehan who after stating the siecial object of the meeting to be a commemoration of the late President of the Academy Dr. Joseph Leidy invited Dr. W. S. W. RuschenBERGER to preside.
Dr. Ruschenberger having taken the chair the following papers were read in accordance with the report of the Committee appointed at the last meeting   Harrison Allen M. D. on Dr. Leidy's work in Vertebrate Anatomy.
Henry C. Chapman M. D. on his work in Invertebrate Anatomy.
Prof. Angelo Heilprin on bis work in Palaeontology and Geology.
Joseph Willcox ou his work in Mineralogy.
James Darrach M. D. on his work in Botany.
Edw.
J. Nolan M. D. on his Personal Character and Services to the Academy.
Remarks were also made by James J. Levick M. D. Daniel G. Brinton Rev.
H. C. McCook D. D. Mr. Isaac C. Martindale and Mrs. Elizabeth L. Bladen.
It was announced that Dr. Chapman had accepted tlie invitation to prepare a Biographical Notice of Dr. Leidy.
268 proceedings of the academy of 1891.
May 19.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Fortysix persons present.
A paper entitled  On Land and Freshwater Mollusks collected in Yucatan and Mexico by Henry A. Pilsbry was presented for publication.
The death of Prof. John LeConte of San Francisco a correspondent was announced.
Mr. Charles E. Smith was elected a member of the Council for the unexpired term of the late Mr. Aubrey H. Smith.
May 26.
Dr. J. Bernard Brinton in the chair.
Thirtythree persons present.
A paper entitled   Echinoderms from the Bahama Islands by J. E. Ives was presented for publication It was resolved that as a mark of respect to the memory of Dr. Leidy the office of President be not filled until the next annual election.
Authority was duly granted for the formation of an Ornithological Section on second reading of an application signed by the following Spencer Trotter M. D. Benjamin Sharp M. D. William L. Abbott M. D. Samuel X. Rhoades Isaac C. Iartindale Edwin Sheppard Henry A. Pilsbry George S. Morris Joseph Willcox Charles E. Ridenour Stewardson Brown and Witmer Stone.
The following Avere elected members   George M. Beringer Joseph Crawford Arthur Aimes Bliss M.D. and Wra.
J. McGinty.
The following were ordered to be printed  
