ECHINODERMS FROM THE BAHAMA ISLANDS.
BY J. E. IVES.
In the year. 1887 and 1888 Ir.
Frederick Stearns of Detroit made a collection of Invertebrates in the Bahama Islands He collected upon Andros and other islands near Nassau.
The following list represents the Echinoderms obtained by him.
It includes a description of a new species of liAmra.
The accompanying plate bas been prepared for publication through Mr. Stearns' liberality.
ECHINOIDEA.
Cidaris tribuloides hainavck.
Numerous specimens collected.
Echinometra subangularis Leske.
Numerous specimens found in living sponges in three fathoms of water on the west side of Andros Island.
Toxopneustes variegatus Lamarck.
Hipponoe esculenta Leske.
Numerous specimens collected.
Echinanthus rosaceus Linnaus.
A single specimen collected.
ASTEROIDEA.
Astropecten articulatus Say.
PL XVI figs.
4.S.
Asterias artitulaia S ly Journ.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila.
1  voL V p. 141 1825  Miiller und Troschel.
System der Asteriden p. li 1842 Dujardin et Hupe Suites a Buffon Echinodermes p. 419 1862 Liitken Vidcnsk.
Meddel.
pp.
127129 1864 Terrier Arch.
Zool.
Exper.
t. 5 pp.
29J291 1878 pars.
A single specimen of this species was collected.
Two such eminent authorities as Dr. Liitken and Professor Alexander Agassiz have differed as to tbe identification of Say's species.
Professor Perrier in the  Revision des Stellerides  has given Profes.sor Agassiz's A. articulatus as synonymous with Dr. Liitken's A. articulatus but a comparison of Professor Agassiz's figures with Dr. Liitken's description at once shows the difference between the two forms.
Say's description in my opinion would refer more precisely to the form described by Dr. Liitken than to that described by Professor Agassiz.
Say states that the species he 1 Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Vol.
V pp.
114116 PL XIX.
described  is very common on the coast of East Florida and on the sea Islands of Georgia. 
My friend Mr. C. W. Johnson who has collected for eight years at St. Augustine on the east coast of Florida informs me that the form described by Liitken is the only species of Astropeden whicli he has found in that region.
There appears to me therefore to be very little doubt that this is the form originally described by Say.
The species figured by Professor Agassiz as Astropeden articulatns Say I believe to he the Astropeden duplicatus of Gray.'
Prof. Perrier has included A. dubius Gray under the synonymy of A. articulatus hit this species is undoubtedly distinct from A. articulatus Say as defined by Dr. Liitken and is probably identical with A. duplicatus Gray.
Below is given a translation of Dr. Liitken's careful description of A. articulatus.
In addition to this it may be said that in the living animal the upper sidearmplates are orangecolored the paxillaarea of the disk and arms urple and the side armspines purple. 
Of quite considerable size about 6 inches in diameter with rather long and pointed arms.
Proportion between the radii about as 1  4.
Arm angles acute.
Edgeplates about 50.
In the middle of the arms the paxillabelt is still twice as wide as the edgeplates  the paxillse whose structure and arrangement are as usual on the disk become larger and are composed of larger grains  in the middle of the disk they became again smaller and more delicate.
The madreporic plate lies nearer to the edgeplates than to the middle of the disk.
The upper edge plates are covered with grains which become fine and bristlelike around the edges of the plates.
On the outer half of the arm there may appear on each of these plates a little low spine or protuberance.
It is not unusual for it to be missing on one or another plate or on several successive plates but it is very unusual for it to go beyond the middle of the arm.
I dare not assert positively that it can be absent entirely as it may perhaps have been only lost through wear in the examples in which I have not been able to convince myself of its existence.
The 1 See Prof. Perrier Arch.
Zool.
Exper.
pp.
271272.
In my paper entitled  Echinoderms from ihe northern coast of Yucatan and the harbor of Vera Cruz Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1890 pp.
330331 I identified an Aslropecten collected at Vera Cruz as Astropecten articulatus Say on account of its resemblance to Prof. Agassiz's figures.
If as assumed above the true A. artictilattis Say is the form described by Liitken then the specimen collected nt 'era Cruz is the ..
duplicatus Gray.
lower edgeplates are closely covered with small spines of somewhat diverse size  the finest small bristles are situated around their edges  the largest form a transverse row along the aboral edge and constitute a transition to the two rather short and weak somewhat curved horizontal edgespines placed side by side Avith which each plate is provided.
The footpapillse usually form two rows  in the inner row are three slender spines in a group of which the innermost is the longest and somewhat curved  in the outer row ai'e two broad flat low equally truncated spadeformed papillae side by side of which the one nearest to the mouth the adoral in all respects stands behind the other  more rarely there are three papillae in this row.
Outside of it there are as a rule in addition 13 small papillie which in the neighborhood of the mouth become larger and more numerous so that 78 can be counted in each group besides the 3 or 4 which belong to the inner row.
Mouth plates covered closely by scalelike papillae. 
 Astropecten duplicatus Gray.
Luidia clathrata Say.
A single specimen collected.
Pentaceros reticalatus Linnseus.
A single specimen collected.
Linckia GuildingiiTray.
Ecliinaster spinosus Retzius.
A single specimen collected.
OPHIUROIDEA.
Ophiura cinerea Muller und Troschel.
A single specimen collected.
Ophiactis MuUeri Lutken.
Numerous specimens found in sponges on Andros Bank.
Amphiara Stearnsi n. sp.
PI.
XVI figs.
13.
Disk angular outer edge of the interbrachial spaces strongly concave  covered above and below with fine scales some larger scales are found in the brachial spaces.
Kadial shields of moderate length very narrow widely separated by the scales of the disk parallel with each other.
Mouth shields large subpentagonal one of the angles directed towards the mouth widest at the aboral 1 I wish to express my indebtedness to Mr. Fred.
F. Myhlertz the Danish Consul in Philadelphia for having examined this translation for me.
edge aboral edge convex lateral edges slightly concave.
Sidemouthshields pyriforni the angle directed inwards and towards the mouth shield.
Mouth papillae usually ten to each angle the second and third counting from without inwards the largest angular  the fourth and fifth more slender rounded  the first or outermost small and angular.
Arms long about ten times as long as the diameter of the disk.
Upperarraplates subtriangular the apex of the triangle pointing towards the end of the arm and much rounded off.
Lowerarmplates quadrilateral the aboral and lateral edges slightly concave.
Sidearmplates about as high as the width of the upperarmplates  meeting neither above nor below.
Three stout armspines about as long as the upperarraplates.
One large oblong tentacle scale about twothirds of the length of the underarmplate.
General color of the dried specimen described white  dorsal surface of the arms with a dark mottled band upon every fourth plate.
In the specimen described diameter of the disk o'o mm. and length of an arm about 50 mm.
This species is characterized by the fine scaling of the disk with the interspersed larger rounded scales  the very narrow and widely separated radial shields the banded arms the single large tentacle scale and the five mouth papillae on each side of the month angle.
It approximates Amphiura nereis and Amphiura tumida' but differs among other things in the single large tentacle scale and the widely separated radial shields.
A single specimen found in a living sponge on Andros Bank.
Optiothrix Oerstedii Lutken.
Numerous specimens found in living sponges on Andros Bank.
Astrophyton costatum Lyman.
A single specimen sent to Mr. Stearns from the Bahamas.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVI.
Fig.
1.
Amphiura Stearnsi n. sp.
Portion of the dorsal surface of the disk and arras much enlarged.
Fig.
2.
Portion of the ventral surface of the disk and arm much enlarged.
Fig.
3.
Portion of the lateral surface of an arm near its base much enlarged.
1 Lyman Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Vol.
X p. 250 PI.
V fijrs.
6163.
2 Lyman op.
cit.
Vol.
V. p. 225 PI.
IL figs2830.
Fig.
4.
Astropeden articulatus Say.
Dorsal surface natural size.
Fig.
5.
Ventral surface natural size.
Fig.
6.
Portion of dorsal surface of an arm at about onethird of the distance from its base enlarged.
Fig.
7.
Portion of lateral surface of an arm near its basc enlarged.
Fig.
8.
Portion of ventral surface of an arm at'about onethird of the distance from its base enlarged.
MEMOIR OF JOSEPH LEIDY M. D. LL.
D. BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN M. D.  And this our life exempt from public haunt finds tongues in trees Ijooks in the running brooks sermons in stones and good in everything.
It falls to the lot of but few living in the midst of a great community for nearly three score years and ten to have never made an enemy during that long period but to have gained universal affection esteem and respect.
Yet such may in truth be said of the subject of this memoir.
The ancestors of Dr. Joseph Leidy were of FrenchGerman extraction and came to this country as missionaries.
Mr. Philip Leidy his father was born in Montgomery County Penna. December 5 1791 and removed when a young man to Phihidelphia where he engaged in the trade of a hatter.
He soon retired from business in which he had been unusually successful.
He married Catlierine Melick a descendant of the well known Melick family the founders of the celebrated  Old Farm  in New Jersey.
Joseph Leidy the third of four children by this marriage was born September 9th 1823 in Philadelphia at his father's house No.
312 N. 3rd.
St. which is still standing.
When but a year and a half old he experienced in the death of his mother a loss that would be usually and justly regarded as irreparable.
His ftither however in marrying shortly afterwards Christiana the sister of his first wife gave to Joseph a stepmother it is true but one who never knew any difference between him and her own children.
He loved her as a mother for as he said upon one occasion  I knew no other mother to her I owe every advancement in life.
His early education was obtained at private schools.
While still a child he showed an appreciation of natural objects taking particular interest in minerals and plants.
The boy however had early evinced such remarkable ability as a draughtsman that his father had taken him away from school when about sixteen years of age with the intention of educating him as an artist.
At about this pei'iod the youth passed much of his time in a wholesale drugstore near his home.
Such good use did he make of the opportunity there presented of learning the nature of drugs and the art of compounding medicines that tlie proprietor recommended him as competent to take temporary charge of the retail drugstore of a customer.
The success attending his conduct of the lusiness was such as to make him consider it seriously as a means of livelihood.
The dissection of a few cats dogs and chickens had however in the mean time developed an interest in the study of anatomy and he had shown such an aptitude for dissection that Mrs. Leidy proud of Joseph's talents and ever watchful of his interests made up her mind that her son should become neither an artist nor an apothecary but a physician.
As Dr. Leidy said fifty years afterward in referring to the circumstances connected with his taking up the study of medicine as a profession   My father intended I should be an artist but my mother said that her children should learn the professions.
She being the stronger carriel the point.
In the year 1842 at the age of nineteen Joseph Leidy began the study of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania his preceptors being Dr. Paul B. Goddard and Dr. James McClintock.
He presented to the Faculty a thesis on  The Comparative Anatomy of the Eye of Vertebrated Animals and having complied in other respects with what was in those days deemed essential as a prerequisite to graduation in 1844 he received the degree of Doctor of Medicine.
He at once began the practice of his profession to which he devoted himself about two years.
During that period and even before he had worked in the laboratory of the celebrated Dr. Robert Hare and had assisted Dr. Goddard who was then Demonstrator of Anatomy at the University.
Becoming impressed with the grave responsibilities incurred in the practice of medicine of the demands on the time of the successful practitioner and the little leisure left to him for study.
Dr. Leidy finally decided to give up the practice of medicine with all hope of its emolument and to devote his life entirely to study and teaching trusting that eventually in the attainment of a Professorship he would obtain at least the means of livelihood.
Haud facile emergunt quorum virtutibus obstat res angusta domi.
For some time young Dr. Leidy experienced that struggle with hardships and obstacles incidental to the lives of so many great men which talent when accompanied with hard and continuouswork alone overcomes.
While a student however Dr. Leidy by his skill in dissecting had impressed Professor Hornor most favorably and he was therefore shortly after his graduation appointed to the position of Prosector to the chair of Anatomy.
During the summer of 1845 Dr. Leidy was elected a member of the Boston Society of Natural History a compliment greatly appreciated he being so young a man.
A few weeks later on the evening of July 29th. he was elected a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia with which institution his name was inseparably connected until the day of his death.
Through the opportunities for advancement liberally afforded by this society he was enabled to accomplish the scientific work of his life.
Shortly after becoming a member of the Academy he was elected Librarian which position he held for twelve months and so efficiently were his duties performed that on the expiration of his term of office a vote of thanks was tendered him.
Vacating the office of Librarian he was elected one of the Curators.
At the annual meeting in 1847 he made his first report as Chairman of the Board of Curators a position he held continuously until the time of his death a period of fortyfour years.
During his years of membership.
Dr. Leidy until almost the close of his life attended regularly the Tuesday evening meetings of the Academy.
The Proceedings and Journal giving ample evidence of the number variety and value of his contributions to all branches of natural science during that long period.
In the year 1846 he left the University for a time having been elected Demonstrator of Anatomy in the Franklin ISIedical College.
After one session at that institution he returned to the University and was again associated with Dr. Hornor.
At this time he also gave a private course of lectures on anatomy which attracted considerable attention.
During the spring of 1848 Dr. Leidy accompanied Dr. Hornor to Europe visiting England France and Germany.
On his return he began a course of lectures on histology and in the following spring lectured on physiology at the Medical Institute.
Incessant application however threatened him with seriousillness and although ambitious and full of enthusiasm he was obliged to give up all work for some months.
He was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society in 1849.
The late Dr. George B. AVood having been elected to the chair of Practice of Medicine in the University went abroad the same year for the purpose of making a collection of models specimens drawings etc. with which to illustrate his lectures and invited Dr. Leidy to accompany him knowing that he would be of great assistance in selecting the collection required.
This visit as well as the previous one abroad was of the greatest possible advantage to Dr. Leidy as he was not only afforded the opportunity of seeing the great museums of Europe under most pleasant auspices but also of making the acquaintance and acquiring the friendship of such distinguished anatomists and physiologists as Owen Majendie Milne Edwards Hvrtl Johannes Miiller and many others.
On his return home Avith health restored and spirits renewed he took up again with enthusiasm his work as Prosector at the University.
During this year 1851 he was elected a member of the College of Physicians and in 1852 he was appointed to the position of Pathologist to St. Joseph's Hospital.
The health of Professor Hornor having in the meantime been much impaired he was unable to continue his course of lectures during the winter of 1852.
He requested the Board of Trustees to appoint Dr. Leidy his substitute.
So admirable were the lectures then delivered and so satisfied were the students with Dr. Leidy as a teacher that upon the death of Dr. Hornor in 1853 the substitute though then but thirty years of age was elected Professor of Anatomv in the University.
This position he held with the most distinguished success till his death a period of nearly forty years.
His lectures were lucid graphic and practical and were listened to by the students bv whom he was beloved and respected with the most profound attention.
No attempt at oratory was ever made no rhetorical flourishes were ever indulged in the instruction being of the simplest character but of the highest scientific excellence.
Many were the anecdotes and amusing stories told of the Professor by the students but they always redounded to his fame and usually illustrated his Avonderful knowledge of the structure of the human body.
It was universallv conceded that he was the highest authority on the subject of human anatomy in this country and it may be added was equalled by few abroad surpassed by none.
About this period the subject of paleontology attracted Dr. Leidv's especial attention and as we shall see when considering his scientific work in detail much of his time was now devoted to its studv.
23 In 1854 he became a member of the Publication Committee of the Academy upon Avhich he served continuously to the time of his death being chairman of the same since 1867.
The civil war breaking out he was appointed Surgeon to the Satterlee Military Hospital his youngest brother the late Dr. Philip Leidy so beloved by his comrades taking a most active part during four years as surgeon in the field.
It w'as at the Satterlee Hospital that the opportunity was afforded of obtaining many of the beautiful preparations illustrative of his lectures on human anatomy and of making important postmortem examinations the reports of which were published in the Medical and Surgical History of the War.
Upon the organization of the National Academy of Sciences in 1863 he was elected one of the members.
In 1864 Dr. Leidy married Anna daughter of Mr. Robert Harden.
The union was a most happy one.
Not being blessed with children they some years later adopted Alwinia daughter of the late Professor Franks of the University of Pennsylvania.
Dr. and Mrs. Leidy at once became so much attached to their little daughter and she so devoted to her parents that it seemed as if the love that had been so freely given to the son by his foster mother was now to be lavished by him upon his adopted daughter.
In 1871 Dr. Leidy was elected Professor of Natural History in Swarthmore College a position for which he was eminently qualified and which he filled to the entire satisfaction of the managers and friends of that institution.
His simple attractive way of imparting his vast knowledge of nature fairly captivated the students and stimulated in them a love for natural science one result of which was constant but unsuccessful attempts to find an object in nature unknown to their teacher.
In the year 1875 accompanied by his wife he went abroad for the third time and while renewing the friendships made on previous visits he made many new friends among the leaders of thought in London Berlin and Paris.
On the reorganization of the Zoological Society and the establishment of the Zoological Garden in 1876 Dr. Leidy was elected one of its Directors holding the position till his death.
Though not a regular attendant at the meetings of the Board he took an active interest in the welfare of the Society and was ever ready to give the benefit of his advice when asked to do so.
Indeed his last official act one week before bis deatli was his attendance at the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Zoological Society May 24th in response to a request to be present.
On that occasion he spoke in reference to certain matters of importance then under consideration.
As a fitting recognition of the services rendered by Dr. Leidy to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia he was unanimously elected its President in 1881.
This position he held at the time of his death.
The Biological Department of the University of Pennsylvania having been established in the year 1884 he was made its Director and was also elected to the positionof Professor of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy.
The latter appointment was a most congenial one as it afforded him the opportunity of delivering a systematic course of lectures on those subjects to the study of which he had devoted the best years of his life.
As a further proof of the respect and esteem in which he was held by his townsmen it should be mentioned that in the following year 1885 he was elected President of the Wagner Free Institute of Science.
In the year 1886 Harvard University honored him by conferring upon him the degree of Doctor of Learning and Laws.
Not often has a prophet been honored in his own country as was Dr. Leidy.
That his services to science however were not overestimated by his personal friends and admirers is shown by the honors conferred upon him by the learned societies abroad among Avhich was membership in the following not already referred to.
The list is probably incomplete   Naturhistorischer Verein fur das Grossherzogthum Hesse und Umgebung 18 18  American Academy of Arts and Sciences 1849  Societe de Biologic Paris 1851  Medical Society of Virginia 1852  Linnean Society of Pennsylvania College Gettysburg 1853  Societe Imperiale des Xaturalistes de Moscow 1853 Logan Institute Virginia 1853  Zeosophical Society of the University of Pennsylvania 1853 Philomathian Society of the University of Pennsylvania 1854  Societe des Sciences des Arts et des Lettres du Hainault 1854 Dallas Historical Society 1855 Iowa Lyceum Des Moines 1855 Natural History Society of Charleston S. C 1855  Academy of Sciences St. Louis Mo. 1856  K. LeopoldinischCarolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher 1857 Zoological Society of London 1857  K. Baierische Akademie der Wissenschaften 1858  Dublin University Zoological and Botanical Association 1859  Burlington County Lyceum of History and Natural Sciences 1859  K. Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften 1860  R. Accadeniia economicoagraria dei Georgofili di Firenze 1861  K. K. Zoologischbotanischer Verein Wieu 1861  Geological Society of London 1861  Dublin Natural History Society 1863 Minnesota Historical Society 1863  Entomological Society of Pennsylvania 1864  College of Physicians and Surgeons Reading 1870 Anthropological Society of London 1872  Linnean Society of London 1872  Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences 1873  Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles de Strasbourg 1873  Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural 1874  Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool 1877  Historical Society of Pennsylvania 1884  Biological Society of Washington 1884  New York Microscopical Society 1884  K. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab 1886  Essex Institute 1887  Victoria Institute or Philosophical Society of Great Britain.
Of the many honors conferred upon Dr. Leidy by the societies of this country and abroad none surprised him as much as the awarding to him by the Boston Society of Natural History of the Walker prize of 500 which on this occasion was raised to 81000 as a special recognition of his services to science.
He was also the recipient of a prize from the Royal Microscopical Society in 1879 and he was awarded the Lyell medal by the Geological Society of London in 1884.
The Academy of Sciences of Paris deemed him most worthy of the Cuvier medal in 1888.
Dr. Leidy went abroad in the summer of 1889 for the fourth and last time accompanied by bis wife and daughter.
Unfortunately his wife's serious illness while in London marred considerably the pleasure of the visit.
Nothing could have exceeded the attention and kindness of the medical gentlemen of London whom Dr. Leidy consulted under these trying circumstances.
He declared on his return that no more could have been done for his wife and himself had they been at home.
There now remains for the memorialist but little to add to what has already been said.
A long pure and useful life was drawing to its close.
During the past year it had become painfully apparent to those most attached to Dr. Leidy that the end was near.
Though weary in mind and sick in body the brave old man struggled on proudly disdaining to ask assistance in doing what he regarded as his duty.
His death which occurred April 30th 1891 was precipitated by the severe strain experienced in the performance of his last official professional duties.
Xo language can express tlie loss the members of the Academy felt that they had sustained in the death of their President.
The regret Avas universal sincere heartfelt  the one wish expressed being to pay every possible respect to the memory of their distinguished associate.
In endeavoring to portray the personal character of Dr. Leidy the disposition to indulge in unrestricted eulogy becomes almost irresistible for the author like his other friends found in him no faults or if any only such as were peculiar to a highly sensitive emotional and amiable nature.
That which invariably impressed all who came in personal contact with the great naturalist was not so much his vast and extraordinary knowledge of nature as the modest and simple way in which he described the rocks plants and animals with which he was so familiar.
His unaffected humility simplicity and entire absence of selfassertion or conceit never failed to attract and charm those with whom he was thrown in contact.
His whole nature was such as to inspire the utmost confidence to make every one instinctively feel that he was incapable of deceit or meanness of any kind.
The sterling integrity of his character was as preeminently manifested in his daily as in his professional life.
So charitable and kindly was his nature that strife of any sort was most repugnant to him.
Indeed so much was this the case that in some instances he submitted to what his friends regarded as injustice or imposition rather than engage in contention or discussion.
Though an indefatigable worker and one of the closest of students.
Dr. Leidy was far from being a recluse.
On the contrary no one more thoroughly enjoyed in a moderate way the society of his friends or contributed more to the success of a social entertainment.
As a relaxation from his work he was at one time fond of attending the theatre and he occasionally read a novel with the same end in view although general literature had for him but little attraction.
While the life of Dr. Leidy regarded from the ordinary standpoint was uneventful it offers the rare instance of one steadfastly and unselfishly devoted to the study of nature  of a long and useful career unsullied by a stain and characterized as much by its sweetness simplicity and goodness as by its great mental achievements.
Within tlie limits of this memoir the author can only indicate the salient features of Dr. Leidy's scientific work the discoveries upon which were founded his great reiutation at home and abroad and upon which his future fame as America's most distinguished biologist will probably rest.
While he never regarded himself either as a mineralogist or a botanist yet those actively engaged in the study of minerals or plants were always glad to avail themselves of his advice in the pursuit of their investigations  indeed so true was this as regards precious stones that jewellers of long experience never questioned his estimate of the value of the gems frequently submitted by them to his inspection.
His familiarity with minerals in general was frequently shown at the weekly meetings of the Academy when as Curator he called attention in an impromptu way to the additions presented during the meeting to the mineralogical cabinet.
Among such verbal communications may be mentioned his remarks upon the minerals from Mount Nlica the tourmalines  specimens of corundum from North Carolina  the mineral springs of Wyoming and Utah  the eroding and polishing of quartzite and jasper by the conjoint action of wind and sand  ozocerites from the Carpathian Mountains  topaz from Brazil and Siberia precious opal  rocks from South Mountain  the origin of citrine or yellow quartz c. In this connection it may be stated that the valuable collection made by him has been purchased by the Government and will be preserved in the National Museum at AVashington.
As with the minerals he would as occasion offered comment informally on an interesting plant.
In this manner communications were made on Wolffia Columbiana the smallest and simplest of all the true flowering plants only comparatively recently known to occur in the United States and on Chara and Vallisneria.
The liairs of the Mullein being under discussion he described the intra cellular circulation in plants.
His intimate acquaintance with botany was also shown by the constant allusions made to the various kinds of plants noticed in the different parts of the country visited by him in search of minerals or fossils.
The herbarium which he presented to the Biological Department of the University contains over 1500 species of plants collected and determined by himself.
Of the many contributions to natural history made by Dr. Leidy his observations upon the lower forms of life deserve especial notice on account of their originality and value and as illustrating his remarkable ability as a microscopist and skill as an anatomist and artist.
For many years on different occasions while investigating with the microscope the minute creatures found in the streams and ponds of the neighborhood he like others had incidentally noticed the presence of various forms of minute animated beings consisting simply of protoplasm and called rhizopods on account of their continually protruding and retracting their bodies in a rootlike or rhizome manner.
They often form shells of great beauty and variety.
Becoming especially interested in these low forms of life he determined to lay aside all other work and to devote himself entirely to the study of these minute beings.
So studiously did he adhere to this resolution that for several years he allowed nothing to interfere with this especial study.
With the object of collecting material he visited ponds ditches and streams in this and other States examining also the mould on stones and between the bricks of houses and then patiently observed with the microscope and delineated with a master hand the protean amoebalike changes exhibited in the life history of these wonderful beings.
The result of this incessant and arduous labor was the production of the magnificent monograph  Fresh Water Ehizopods of North America which appeared in 1879 as one of the Reports of the United States Geological Survey of the Territories.
To those wishing to engage at some future time in similar researches it may not prove uninteresting to know that this great work was accomplished by means of a microscope that cost .50 provided with but two objectives of moderate magnifying power.
In the sediment of a few drops of water squeezed from a piece of moss thirtyeight different kinds of rhizopods together with examples of Micrasterias Euastrum Doeidiuvi Closterium and other desmids together with several species of diatoms were revealed bv this simple apparatus.
Notwithstanding that Dr. Leidy invariably made use of verv simple instruments in his microscopical investigations he rarelv made mistakes though the first to admit such when substantiated.
In this connection it may be appropriately mentioned that his observation made in 1861 that the Gregarina a minute unicellular entozoon infesting the stomach of the cockroach and other insects was provided with muscular fibres was questioned by European microscopists and indeed was denied by the elder Van Beneden.
Thirty years afterward the observation was fully confirmed by the investigations of the younger Van Beneden who admitted that he must agree with Dr. Leidy even at the expense of his father's accuracy.
Among the simple forms of animal life though more highly organized than the Rhizopods and Gregariuse the sponges attracted Dr. Leidy's attention.
Among the more interesting forms described by him may be mentioned Fheronema Annae sonamed in honor of his devoted wife.
He was the first to correctly describe the position which that exquisite siliceous sponge the Eapledella of the Philipinesassumes in a state of nature and the manner in which it is anchored by its strands a reversed position having been previously assigned to it by the greatest of English anatomists.
The beautiful hydroid Eucoryne elegans resembling a minute rose bush was dredged up by Dr. Leidy in the bay of Newport.
This together Avith sponges and other marine animals supplied the material for his paper in the Journal of the Academy entitled   Marine Invertebrate Fauna of Rhode Island and Xew Jersey.
Urnatella gracilis a peculiarly interesting fresh water polyzoon was discovered by Dr. Leidy in the Schuylkill river just below the Fairmount dam.
Its body wall is so translucent as to permit movements of the alimentary canal to be seen under the microscope.
The mouth of the polvphead or bell is surrounded with a circle of ciliated tentacula.
It is described and beautifully illustrated in the Journal of the Academy.
While investigations like those just referred to are of interest to the biologist his researches in helminthology appeal also to the medical profession and the entire community on account both of their scientific and piactical value.
The discovery by Leuckart of the cause and therefore of the mode of prevention of trichinosis in man was entirely due as that eminent authority himself says to the discovery by Dr. Leidy of Trichina spiralis in the pig.
As far back as 1846 one morning while at breakfast just as he was about to partake of a piece of pork.
Dr. Leidy noticed that it contained minute peculiar specks which after submitting to microscopic investigation he recognized as being encysted Trichinae.
The account of this observation published in the Proceedings of the Academy attracting the attention of Leuckart it occurred to the distinguished German helminthologist that trichinosis in man might be due to the eating of raw pork containing trichinae.
This was afterwards showu to be the case.
Dr. Leidy's reputation as a helmiiithologist was world wide and his numerous contributions to that subject are held in the highest esteem abroad being continually referred to in the standard works of Diesing Leuckart Cobbold and others.
Throughout the United States he was regarded as the highest authority on entozoa and parasites.
Physicians from all parts of the country were constantly sending to him for determination flukes tape and thread worms trichinae ticks etc. in the hope of securing suggestions from him as to the best means of preventing the recurrence of parasites in their patients.
His  Observation on the Parasites of the Termites or White Ants published in the eighth volume of th Journal of the Academy was directlv in this line of investigation.
His memoir entitled  A Flora and Fauna within Living Animals  constituting part of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge for 1853 had already established in the most striking manner the fact that the alimentary canal of many animals such as beetles cockroaches and centipedes are the natural homes of a most diversified animal and vegetable life.
Indeed the mucous membrane of the intestines of certain beetles presents the appearance of a flower garden.
The description of Enterohryus led Prof Robin to the later discovery of the species in the Julus lerrestris of Europe.
The w'ork just referred to is not only a remarkable one as having revealed to the naturalist a number of new forms of animal and vegetable life living parasitically within the bodies of higher animals as their hosts but as containing the most profound reflections the truth of which modern research has confirmed in every particular upon the origin and extinction of life upon the earth.
In speaking of the origin of entozoa and entophyta at page 9 of the paper under consideration the author observes   The study of the earth's crust teaches us that very many species of plants and animals became extinct at successive periods while other races originated to occupy their places.
This probably was the result in many cases of a change in exterior conditions incompatible with the life of certain species and favorable to the primitive production of others Living beings did not exist upon earth prior to their indispensable conditions of action but wherever these have been brought into operation concomitantly the former originated Of the life present everywhere with its indispensable conditions and coeval in its origin with them what was the immediate cause
It could not have existed upon earth prior to its essential conditions  and is it therefore the result of these 
There appear to be but trifling steps from the oscillating particle of inorganic matter to a Bacterium  from this to a Vibrio thence to a Monas and so gradually up to the highest orders of life I The most ancient rocks containing remains of living beings indicate the contemporaneous existence of the more complex as well as the simplest of organic forms but nevertheless life may have been ushered upon earth through oceans of th lowest types long previously to the deposit of the oldest palaeozoic rocks as known to us
Although unfortunately for science he rarely indulged in such speculations it may Avell be asked where in the whole range of biological literature can there be found a more concise and fitting statement of what is known as the theory of Natural Selection Survival of the Fittest or in a w'ord of Darwinism than is expressed in the above quotation.
Prophetic words indeed  the  Origin of Species appeared five years later.
As a further illustration of the wide range of his biologicnl studies may be mentioned his knowledge of entomology.
This was shown in a most happy manner some thirty years ago by his reply to the Councils of Philadelphia in answer to their inquiries as to the best methods of protecting the shade trees of the city from the depredations of insects.
Perfectly familiar with the structure development and habits of the canker worm the scale bug the tufted caterpillar the sack bearer and the borer the insects that are most destructive to our shade trees he suggested various simple but effective methods by which the insects could be destroyed with least injury to the trees.
One would not suppose that the subject of basket worms would be suggestive of poetical ideas yet in speaking of the development of the insects he observes that from the pupa case is jroduced the moth the male of which awaits the night to leave his habitation in search of a mate.
The female never leaves her silken dwelling nor does she even throw aside her pupa garment  it is her nuptial dress and her shroud.
Minute butterflies were always interesting to him and the collection he made many years ago is still a very attractive feature in the entomological collection of the Academy.
Among his most important contributions to tiie anatomy of insects should be mentioned his account of the structure of the walkingstick insect Specti'um femoratum communicated to the Academy in 1847 and his description of the mechanism by which the membranous wings of the locust are closed.
The anatomy of the hemipter Belostoma then a rare insect but lately quite commonly attracted by the electric light was the subject of a communication appearing in the Journal of the Academy.
The admirable figures in that paper as well as those illustrating the internal anatomy of the neuropterous insect Corydalus cornuius in its three stages of existence are to this day made use of by such high authorities as Packard and others to illustrate their standard works on entomology.
One of the most important of Dr. Leidy's observations upon the structure of articulate animals was his discovery in 1848 of eyes in barnacles Balanus.
It is especially interesting in this connection to note the fact that Darwin remarks in his monograph on the Cirripedia p. 48 owing to Professor Leidy's discovery of eyes in a Balanus I was led to look for them in the Lepadidse.
During the same year there appeared in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences his researches upon the comparative anatomy of the liver.
This communication is based upon the study of the organ in numerous invertebrate and vertebrate animals and the view is advanced that its structure is essentially the same in all orders of animals.
According to our author's theory the liver consists of more or less numerous membranous tubes or csecalined with cells whose office it is to elaborate the bile from the blood supplying the organ.
As the bile so elaborated passes from the cells into the spaces between them and as these intercellular spaces are continuous with the interior of the interlobular biliary duct they must be regarded as the beginning thereof.
The intimate structure of the liver does not differ then in any way from that of any other true gland the simplest expression of which is a basement membrane separating a bloodvessel from a secreting cell.
This view of the structure of the liver was accepted by but few of the anatomists of the day.
It has however been shown by later study that the liver begins as a diverticulum of the intestine in which the relation of the basement membrane to the bloodvessels and secreting cells is the same as that indicated by Dr. Leidy.
Further modern investigation has shown that the liver contains more urea than any other gland in the body thus confirming the opinion as to the biliary function of the tubes opening into the intestines of insects and which have been usually regarded as renal by most anatomists on account of their containing uric acid and sodium urate.
In 1844 Dr. Leidy then twentyone years of age was asked by Dr. Amos Binuey of Boston to contribute an article on the special anatomy and physiology of the terrestrial gasteropoda of the United States for the proposed general work on that subject then in preparation by the latter.
Before the special anatomy was completed the death of Dr. Binney unfortunately put a stop to further work in that direction.
Nevertheless the result of Dr. Leidy's investigations were later published in Binney's work on the terrestrial gasteropoda of the United States as edited by Gould.
To appreciate the importance of this admirable monograph beautifully illustrated from drawings by the author it must be remembered that at the time of its appearance the only systematic work on the anatomy of the mollusca was Cuvier's classical treatise published in 1817.
While it is true that there are some errors of interpretation in Dr. Leidy's paper recognized later by the author yet to this day it is in the hands of every specialist and is continually referred to in the standard works on the anatomy of the mollusca.
In this connection it is an interesting fact that the first scientific communication of any kind made by Dr. Leidy at least as far as known to the writer was a paper on the anatomy of Littorina angulifera submitted July 16th 1845 to the Boston Society of Natural History and published ill the Journal of that Society no doubt on account of Dr. Binney's interest in the author.
The latter was not then a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia but being elected a few days later July 29th he presented on the 14th day of the following October his first communication Notes taken on a Visit to White Pond N.
J.'
The extinct mollusca described in the paper may still be seen in the Museum of the Academy.
These specimens are interesting not only as constituting the subject of his first communication to our society but as oflfering one of the few instances of descriptions of fossil invertebrata to be met with in Dr. Leidy's numerous paleontological works.
It need not be added however that his knowledge of the extinct forms of invertebrate life was as extensive and exact as was his acquaintance with recent forms.
When he began his biological studies the waters of every ditch stream and pond in the vicinity of the city teemed with various kinds of invertebrate life unfortunately since destroyed by sewage and coal oil.
Many of these were new to science and constituted as we have seen the subject of most of his researches upon the anatomy of the invertebrates.
The opportunities afforded at that time for investigating the anatomy of vertebrates other than the most common forms were very limited depending as the Zoological Garden had not been established upon the chance of a travelling menagerie losing a specimen by death while exhibiting in the city.
His contributions to our knowledge of the anatomy of recent vertebrates were therefore few in number.
Among these may be mentioned his communication in the Proceedings of the Academy illustrated with figures on certain peculiar bodies resembling the Pacinian corpuscles of man found along the course of the intercostal nerves in the boa constrictor.
The anatomy of the abdominal viscera of the threetoed sloth the subject of another communication to the Academy is interesting as containing a description and figure of the embryo sloth with membranes.
In 1852 there appeared in the Journal of the Academy his important memoir  Description of the Osteological Characters of a New Genus of Hippopotamus. 
By a comparison of the skulls in the Museum of the Academy the author proves that the animal from Liberia not only differs from that of the Nile as had been previously supposed by Dr. Morton but that it belongs to a diflierent genus which he named at first Chverodes but afterward Chceropsis the former name having been already adopted for an insect.
It is an interesting fact that while his opinion of the generic distinction of Chceropsis from Hippopotamus was not accepted by the zoologists of that day and is questioned by many even now its correctness has been fully established by the recent researches of one of the highest authorities Prof. Alphonse Milne Edwards.
Dr. Leidy's contributions to the general or histological anatomy of vertebrates were but few in number.
Mention should be made however of his communications to the Academy and to the American Journal of Medical Sciences on the development of the Purkinjean corpuscles of bone the structure of the intercellular substance of articular cartilage and the disposition of the sheath of muscular fasciculi.
Dr. Leidy in the paper first mentioned showed that the bone cells or Purkinjean corpuscles are derived from the preexisting cartilage cells the canaliculi being prolongations or protrusions of the cell wall.
As regards the structure of the intercellular substance of articular cartilage basing his observations on the fact that the latter fractures in a direction perpendicular to its surface he showed that it consists of extremely line transparent filaments upon the existence of which depends the disposition of the cells in rows.
He also demonstrated that the filaments of fibrous tissue forming the sheath of muscular fasciculi are disposed diagonally around the latter becoming straight at their rounded extremities.
He pointed out the advantage functionally of such arrangement by which the muscular power is conveyed to the parts to be moved without entailing any loss.
As an illustration of the extent and variety of his researches in histology it may be mentioned that about this period he translated from the German Gluge's Atlas of Pathological Histology a standard work at that time.
Dr. Leidy's studies of the structure of the human body were fully set forth in his admirable treatise upon human anatomy so that he but rarely published any special communications upon that subject.
His researches however upon the development of the intermaxillary bone in man the structure and development of the temporal bone the nature and relations of the cricothyroid membrane and adjacent muscles of the larynx are well worthy of consideration.
To Goethe great alike as philosopher poet and naturalist science is indebted for the discover' of the intermaxillary bone in man.
Its recognition however at the time Dr. Leidy began his study had been confined to abnormal conditions due to an arrest of development as in harelip its exact limits and the period of life in which it occurs as a distinct piece not having been accurately determined.
He made it the subject of a special investigation.
The result of his study based upon the examination of a number of human embryos was embodied in his observations on the existence of the intermaxillary bone in which not only was its development accurately described but it was shown that the same law governed the formation of the upper maxillary bones in man as in all other vertebrates.
It would hardly be supposed at the present day considering all that has been published on the development and structtire of the temporal bone that anything of importance would have been left unsaid.
As recently however as 1883 Dr. Leidy communicated to  Science the results of his study of that portion of the skull.
He prefaced his description with characteristic modesty by observing that he laid no claim to having made any discoveries.
Nevertheless his views as to the development and relations of the auditory plate.
the scute the antrum and attic based upon beautiful preparations differ so essentially from those given in systematic treatises that it may be truly said he has thrown a flood of light upon the anatomy of that most complex of bones.
It should be mentioned in this connection that while he admits with Prof. Huxley the presence of two ossificatory centers in the development of the temporal bone the prootic and opisthotic he views the socalled third centre or epiotic bone not as a distinct centre but as a continuous outgrowth of the posterior semicircular canal.
He was one of the few anatomists who described the vocal membranes of the larynx as being membranes instead of cords.
The latter name most inappropriate and misleading was originally given to them because it was supposed that the voice was produced in the same manner as sounds are produced by the vibration of strings whereas the larynx is rather comparable to a reed instrument such as the oboe.
In an excellent paper well illustrated he described accurately the structure and attachments of the cricothyroid membrane as well as the relations of the adjacent muscles more particularlv of the thyroaryttienoideus and thyroepiglottidseus the superior and inferior arytseus epiglottidseus.
The first edition of the  Elementary Treatise on Human Anatomv was published in 1861.
It is one of the best works ever oflered to the medical profession on the subject and more than fulfilled its author's anticipations of usefulness.
The work was prepared not in the hope that it would supersede the classical treatises already before the profession but to place in the hands of students and practitioners of medicine a work on human anatomy which while brief and clear should be sufficiently complete for all practical purposes.
The description of the various organs illustrated by excellent figures many of them original is always lucid and graphic.
Especially is this true of the observations upon general histology usually prefacing the descriptions of great systems such as the muscular alimentary nervous systems etc.
One of the striking features of the work is the employment in the text of the English name only for the part to be described the Latin or other synonyms being given in foot notes thus greatly simplifying the nomenclatui'e.
The work throughout bears the impress of the comparative anatomist of one as familiar with the structure of an infusorial animalcule as with that of the complex vertebrate.
The variety extent and exactness of Dr. Leidy's knowledge of nature was unsurpassed if equalled by that of any living naturalist.
It was this familiarity with all natural objects which invariably impressed those brought in personal contact with him.
If some minute infusorian were casually mentioned in conversation one would have supposed from his remarks that he had devoted his life to the study of the Protozoa an intestinal worm being the subject of discussion from his description of its structure origin and mode of life it would have been inferred that helminthology was his exclusive specialty.
The opportunity of seeing him dissect an insect mollusk or vertebrate would soon convince one that he was a most skilful anatomist.
A fragment of rock a plant a shell submitted to him called forth criticisms worthy of the professional mineralogist botanist or conchologist.
Profound as was his knowledge of living plants and animals it can be truly said that his acquaintance with the extinct forms of life was equally so.
Indeed it was his great familiarity with the existent tvpes of vegetable and animal life that so eminently qualified him to determine fossil forms.
In the year 1847 Dr. Hiram A. Prout of St. Louis published in the American Journal of Science and Arts the description of a fossil maxillary bone of Paleothermm from near AVhite River Nebraska.
This communication at once directed the attention of geologists and paleontologists to the Mauvaises Terres.
At about the same time Dr. S. D. Culbertson of Chambersburg Penna. sulmitted to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia some fossils sent to him from the Bad Lands of Nebraska by Mr. Alexander Culbertson.
These were afterwards presented to the Academy by the collector and described by Dr. Leidy in the Proceedings together with the paleotheroid form just referred to from the same locality.
The collection of fossils in the possession of Prof. O'Loghland of St. Louis as well as those made in the Bad Lands of Nebraska by Dr. Evans at the request of Dr. Owen of the Geological Survey of Nebraska and by Captain Van Vliet of the U. S. Army were also placed at Dr. Leidy's disposal for description in the Proceedings of the Academy.
The late Prof. S. F. Baird fully appreciating the importance of the discoveries sent Mr. T. A. Culbertson to the Bad Lands of Nebraska.
He returned with a most valuable collection of mammalian and chelonian fossils.
These specimens with others obtained from the same locality were sent to Dr. Leidy by Prof. Baird who with his characteristic judgment remarked that Dr. Leidy though but thirty years of age was the only anatomist then in the United States qualified to determine their nature.
The findingof these fossils together with the appreciation of their value and the recognition of their relations constitutes a discovery Avhich if equaled has never been surpassed in importance by auv other contribution to paleontology.
The  Ancient Fauna of Nebraska appeared in 1853.
It contained descriptions of the fossil remains just referred to together with some previous publications to be mentioned hereafter and was the beginning of a most brilliant series of paleontological researches.
They extended over a period of more than forty years and culminated in discoveries which together with others made in the same field are regai'ded by many as going farther to establish the doctrine of evolution than all the other facts hitherto advanced in favor of that theory.
The remains of the extinct animals described in this work excited a great deal of attention when submitted to the Academy as they were the first fossils brought from the tertiary beds of the AVest.
They were of a more generalized type of structure than those living at the present day a remarkable feature especially in the case of the Tertiary mammalian remains discovered some of which to a considerable extent bridged the gap between extinct and recent mammals.
These facts commented upon as so remarkable at the time afterwards became perfectly intelligible in the light of the theory that the early tertiary mammals must be regarded as the ancestors of those living at the present day.
Among the ancient mammals from the tertiary beds of Nebraska described by Dr. Leidy may be mentioned Po'ehrothermm a ruminant nearly allied to the musk deer and through Procamelus described later by our author the ancestor of the camel.
Agrioclueriis and Oreodon peculiar ruminants were especially interesting as filling up the interval between J.
ooiemi of Cuvierand recent ruminants as Zeuglodon whose vertebrie were once so common in Alabama as to be used for fences and which bridges the gap between the carnivora and the cetacea.
Oreodon intermediate in its structure between the hog deer and the camel appears to have lived in herds inhabiting the whole continent from Nebraska to Oregon.
Archeotherhnn a recent genus of suilline ungulata was an illustra24 tion of the generalized type of maninials living in those early tertiary times combining ruminant with carnivorous characteristics.
The skull and jaws of the horselike mammal Anchithermm were particularly important as being the remains of a genus hitherto represented in Europe by other parts of the skeleton.
In view of what has since been established regarding the genealogy of the horse it is interesting to find Dr. Leidy remarking that it is extraordinary that Anchitherium should be so much like Paleotherium in the anatomical and physiological construction of its teeth and yet be so much like the horse in its skeleton.
Titanotherium of which the lowerjaws as already mentioned wei'e the the first fossils presented to the notice of the world from the great mammalian cemetery of the West resembles according to Dr. Leidy the Paleotherium of Cuvier though much larger than Paleotherium viagnum.
Later researches have sliown that Titanotherinm has afiinities with Limnohyus and Paleosyops afterwards described by Dr. Leidy as well Avith Brontotheriuvi.
Two species of Rhinoceros w'ere described in the work as having once inhabited the Bad Lands of Nebraska the largest of the two species being about threefourths the size of Rhinoceros Indicus of the present day.
As an illustration of Dr. Leidy's remarkable knowledge of osteology even at that early date it may be mentioned that he established this species of extinct Rhinoceros upon a few small fragments of molar teeth without having even those of a recent Rhinoceros with which to compare them.
The correctness of this determination was questioned when the teeth were first brought to the Academy it being considered incredible that such an animal should have ever lived in Nebraska.
His opinion however was fully sustained soon afterwards by the discovery of several entire molars together with a complete skull of the animal.
Of the remaining mammalia described as occurring in Nebraska at that time should be mentioned Machairodus recognized later as a synonym of Drepanodon or the sabretoothed tiger which had already been found in France India and Brazil and which no doubt preyed upon the herds of Oreodon roaming over the country in those I'emote times much as the lion and tiger prey upon the deer in Asia and Africa at the present day.
A most striking peculiarity of the paleontology of the Bad Lands of Nebraska is the fossil turtles to be seen by hundx'eds particularly in the neighborhood of Bear Creek which appears to have been at one time a vast lake.
All the turtles from this region submitted to Dr. Leidy for determination appear to have been species of Testudo.
The  Ancient Fauna of Nebraska  is a very remarkable work not only on account of the admirable descriptions it contains of animals long since extinct whose existence on this continent as in the case of the rhinoceros had never been suspected but particularly in view of the lack of opportunity to compare the fossil remains with those of recent animals.
The identification of fossil remains the determination of their relations and aflBnities always present difficulties to the best comparative osteologists even when studied in connection with such magnificent collections as those of the Royal College of Surgeons or of the Jardin des Plantes.
The accuracy of Dr. Leidy's work is therefore specially worthy of note as he had no material for comparison except that contained in the limited collections of the Academy  yet how comparatively few are the errors his successors have indicated.
The remains of the extinct gigantic sloths that inhabited North America during the quaternary period and which probably were the ancestors of similar but smaller animals now living in South America early attracted the attention of American naturalists.
As long ago as 1797 Thomas Jefferson in a communication to the American Philosophical Society described certain bones discovered in a care in xreen Briar County Virginia which he regarded on account of the claws as being the remains of a carnivorous animal which he named Megalonyx.
The bones being subsequently presented to the American Philosophical Society were again described by Dr. Wistar who basing his opinion upon the form and arrangement of the bones of the feet suggested that Megalonyx was a kind of Sloth and not a carnivorous animal as Mr. Jefferson had very naturally supposed.
An examination by the great paleontologist Cuvier of casts of these bones sent to him by Mr. Peale fully confirmed Dr. Wistar's opinion as to the slothlike nature of Megalonyx Jeffersoni as it was afterwards called by Dr. Harlan.
The original specimen described by Mr. Jefferson now in the Museum of the Academy together with other remains of Megalonyx Megatherium etc. obtained from Tennessee Nli.ssissijDpi Kentucky Alabama and Georgia constituted the material upon which was based Dr. Leidy's admirable  Memoir on the Extinct Sloth Tribe of North America  which appeared beautifully illustrated in 1855 two years after the liublicatiou of the Ancient Fauna of Nebraska.
At the time that Dr. Leidy began his researches upon the extinct sloths considerable difference of opinion prevailed as to whether certain bones that had been discovered since the slothlike nature of Megalonyx was satisfactorily determined were the remains of that animal or of one somewhat closely allied.
Dr. Leidy showed conclusively that while several of the bones in question were those of Megalonyx many that had hitherto been regarded as such were undoubtedly the remains of other extinct edentata such as Gnathopsis Mylodon Megatherium Scelidotheriuvi etc. the generic and specific characters of Megalonyx being clearly indicated as well as those of the other edentata just mentioned many of which had already been described by Cuvier and Owen.
As an illustration of the exactness of Dr. Leidy's determination of the nature of Megalonyx it may be mentioned that in his first description he attributed five toes to the hinder feet as well as to the fore feet a greater number than is known to belong to any other genus of the Tardigrada.
The coriectness of this view was fully substantiated the following year by the discovery of remains oi Megalonyx among which the particular bones of the feet that were missing in the specimens previously described happened to be represented.
These were made the subject of some further observations upon the feet of Megalonyx.
The extinct fishes discovered in the Devonian deposits of Illinois and Missouri and the Devonian and Carboniferous formations of Pennsylvania now attracted his attention and were made the subject of special communications to the American Philosophical Society and the Academy.
Among these interesting remains from the red sandstone formation of Tioga County Pennsylvania discovered by Charles E. Smith Esq.
and described by Dr. Leidy were those of Holoptychius Americanus a Ganoid fish represented at the present day in our waters by the garpike and sturgeon and those of Stenacanthus a Placoid characterized by its peculiar dorsal spine and supposed to have been allied to the sharks of the present day.
Another remarkable and gigantic fish descriled by Dr. Leidy as living in the seas of these remote times was Edestus vorax the teeth of which resembling those of Carcharodon are nearlv two inches long.
These were 1891.
NATUKAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPIIIA.
365 afterwards regarded as spines which is also the opinion of Sir Richard Owen.
According to the recent researches of Trautschold however the parts in question in Edestus are really teeth as Dr. Leidy first supposed.
Various genera Cochliodas Helodus Cliomatodus and Ctenoptychius were also described and their relations to the living Cestracion Phillippi or Port Jackson shark of Australia were pointed out.
The jaws of this fish a relic of the most remote ages and of living Placoids and resembling most the extinct carboniferous fishes just mentioned are covered Avith rounded plates much like a cobblestone pavement instead of the lancetshaped teeth so characteristic of the sharks of the present day.
About this period the remains of the Walrus discovered upon the coasts of Virginia and New Jersey were identified as being of the same species as the recent Trichecus Rosmarus which once lived in great numbers in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
These remains were regarded as those of individuals that had been floated upon fields of ice and ultimately deposited upon our southern coasts or of such as may be supposed to have migrated to the South during the Glacial epoch.
It is well known that the remains of the Peccary have been found in considerable quantities in the states of Illinois Kentucky Iowa Missouri and Virginia.
Dr. Leidy was at one time inclined to think that these remains represented a number of genera and species.
A more recent study however based upon an examination of the recent Peccaries which the lack of material had previously rendered impossible convinced hira that the remains hitherto described might all be referred to Dicotyles compressus.
He adds however that if the anatomical characteristics offered be considered subgeneric then the name Platygomis eo7npresst.
 previously employed would include all the genera and species.
In the year I860 there was published in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge one of the most important of Dr. Leidy's paleontological works the memoir entitled Cretaceous Reptiles of the United States.
Most of the fossil remains constituting the subject of this memoir were obtained from the Green Sand or Marl of New Jersey so extensively excavated for agricultural purposes.
They are preserved in the Museum of the Academy.
Among them are those of the extinct crocodile Thoracosauriis closely allied anatomically to the Gavial of the Ganges the skull of which measures nearly four feet iu length and two feet in breadth.
Other interesting crocodilelike reptiles described as of tlie same general character iu the work were Bottosanrus and Hyposaiirus.
The huge Cimoliasaurus and Discosaurus measuring sixty feet in length appear to have represented in our waters the Pleslosaurus of the English cretaceous seas.
The teeth and some of the bones of the extremities of Mosasaiirus an extinct saurian resembling in some respects existing reptiles like tbe Monitor and Iguana were also described.
In the case of the extremities this was especially important as few bones that could be identified as such had been discovered among the remains of Mosasaurus hitherto described.
Indeed Cuvier was so much impressed with the absence of any remains of extremities in the case of the celebrated Msestricht specimen now preserved in the Jardin des Plantes that at first he was led to doubt whether the animal possessed any limbs.
Dr. Leidy also called attention to the remarkable character of the vertebral colunm of Mosasaurus the coossification in the hinder part of the tail and of the chevron bones with the bodies of the vertebrae a condition previously known only in fishes.
One of the most remarkable reptiles described by Dr. Leidy was Hadrosaurus Foulkii the restoration of which forms a conspicuous object in the Museum of the Academy.
It resembles somewhat the Iguana and Cyclura among existing lizards.
This gigantic reptile the representative during the cretaceous period of North America of the Iguanodon of the Wealden of England was twentyeight feet long and judging from the development of the pelvis and the great difference in the size of the hind as compared with the fore limbs it probably stood and walked like a bird or a kangaroo and was provided with a powerful tail like the last named animal.
While the femur measured nearly four feet in length and the tibia three feet the humerus and ulna Avere only about half those dimensions respectively.
Hadrosanrus like Iguanodon was a vegetable feeder.
Its teeth resembled those of the latter but were disposed in rows like a tesselated pavement.
One of the most interesting results of the study of the remains of Hadrosaurus was the identification of the pubic bone with that described as the clavicle in Iguanodon.
The determination of the proper relations of this bone was a most important one leading as it did to the subsequent generalization that the Dinosauria are the ancestors of the birds the gap between the two groups being filled up by the Struthious birds such as the ostrich and certain reptilelike birds and birdlike reptiles since discovered.
Among the other reptilian remains discovered in the marl of Ncav Jersey many were recognized as being those of turtles s.uch as Chelone Emys and Trionyx.
Bothremys Cookii found near Barnsboro of especial interest as being the first Chelonian skull discovered in the Green sand formation in the United States was regarded as closely allied to the great turtle of the Amazon Podoenemys expansa.
During the time intervening between the years 1853 and 1866 the able and indefatigable explorer Dr. F. V. Harden made several visits to Nebraska and Dakota returning each time with large collections of the remains of the extinct animals of that region those from the vicinity of the Niobrara river being the first obtained.
All these fossils were submitted to Dr. Leidy for determination and together with tho.se previously described in the  Fauna of Nebraska  etc. already referred to constituted the subject of his great work  The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska which appeared as Volume Y I of the Journal of the Academy in 1869.
In this remarkable work over seventy genera with numerous species of extinct mammalia many of them new to science were first described.
The Carnivora Pachydermata Ruminantia Proboscidea Rodentia and Insectivora were especially well represented.
Remains of the Equine family were most conspicuous.
The vast number of bones from the pliocene deposits of Dakota recognized by Dr. Leidy as being the remains of horses led him to infer that the North American Continent during that period was emphatically the country of the horse the different forms being then better represented than in the recent fauna of any part of the world.
He was specially interested in the relations of the extinct horses to each other and to those of the present day.
His first communication on this subject was made to the Academy in 1847  his last as recently as May 1890.
He made a collection of the skulls jaws teeth bones of the limbs etc. of the diflferent breeds and ages of recent horses with the view of comparing them with the corresponding parts of the extinct forms.
In speaking of the great difficulties experienced when endeavoring to positively identify certain bones as those of one socalled species of horse as distinguished from another he observes that if the  bones and teeth of the domestic horse the mule the ass the djiggetai the hemione the quagga the daww and the zebra were commingled they might readily be considered as belonging to varieties of a single species  and that the  bones and teeth of the three last named species are so nearly alike that had they Ijeen found in a fossil state in Southern Africa instead of the living animals they would have been unhesitatingly considered as pretaining to a single species.
To this circumstance so thoroughly appreciated by the author was due his caution in identifying the remains submitted to him as belonging to any particular species of the horse.
Indeed the difficulties are so great in determining to what particular species or genus the remains of extinct horses are to be assigned that it is impossible to say whether or not the several forms first described by Dr. Leidy are the same as those subsequently described by others.
Without committing himself to any positive theory of the origin of the horse it may be said that Dr. Leidy provisionally at least regarded the genus Equus of the Pliocene ieriod as the descendant of the Merychippiis or a similar form which in turn had descended from Protohippus and Hipparion the latter having replaced the Farahippus of the Miocene which had been preceded by the AncJdppiis and Anchitheriiim or similar forms of that same period.
As to the origin of l7K'Aiierm
i it will be remembered as already mentioned that in his description of that genus he called attention to the fact that this curious animal resembled Palaotherinm in the form of its teeth and the horse in the character of its skeleton.
During the five years that elapsed after the publication of the important work on the extinct mammalia of Nebraska and Dakota just referred to the remains of a great number of extinct vertebrates had been discovered in the neighborhood of Fort Bridger Wyoming.
These fossils obtained principally by Drs.
Carter and Corson included the remains of fishes and reptiles as well as those of mammals and were together with others from the Green River and Sweetwater River deposits of Wyoming and the John Day river of Oregon submitted to Dr. Leidy for determination.
The result of his study was given in his  Contributions to the Extinct Vertebrate Fauna of the Western Territories' published in 1873 by the United States Geological Survey.
Among these remains he recognized not only those of extinct animals that he had previously descriljed either in the general works we have referred to or in communications made to the Academy but also those of many new and interesting forms previously unknown to science.
Of these Uintatherium was one of the most extraordinary.
Its name was derived from that of the Uinta iiKnintaiii.
 in theneighborhood of which jjortions of the skull jaw and limb bones were found.
Its characters were so peculiar and unlike those of any other known animal as to render its ordinal affinities obscure.
That great difficult' should have been experienced in determining the nature of Uintatherium will not excite surprise when it is remembered that its canine teeth resemble those of the sabretoothed tiger its molar teeth those of the tapir its limbs and feet those of the elephant while as subsequently shown it appears to have been provided with two pairs of horns.
This unusual combination of characters is an illustration of how readily a paleontologist may be deceived as to the nature of an extinct animal when fragmentary remains only are in his possession.
There can be no doubt that had the skull jaws teeth and limbs been found by different paleontologists as many separate genera would have been described and named.
As a matter of fact when the tusk the first part of Uintatherium discovered was found by Dr. Corson and submitted to Dr. Leidy's inspection the latter regarded it as he himself tells us as the canine tooth of some large carnivorous animal allied to the sabretoothed tiger of Brazil for which he proposed the name Uiiitamastix atrox.
The association in the same individual of a tusklike tooth with two pairs of horns tapiroid teeth and elephantine limbs would have been deemed impossible by the best comparative osteologist of the day and as violating in every particular the principle of correlation of animal structures as maintained by Cuviei.
On the other hand it is such animals as Uintatherium and other similar extinct highly generalized mammalian types that the theory of evolution would lead us to suppose had preceded in time their more specialized descendants of the present day.
This great work was the last of Dr. Leidy's elaborate and important treatises on the aleontology of the Western States and Territories and was iegarded by the author at that time as his last paleontological work of any kind.
A few years later however a collection of fossils from the Phosphate Beds of South Carolina having been placed at the disposal of the author of this memoir he induced Dr. Leidy to examine the collection with the view of ascertaining if there were among the remains any extinct animals new to science or of especial interest.
The result of his study of this collection as well as that of some additional specimens obtained from the same locality and elsewhere were embodied in his Description of Vertebrate Remains chiefly from the Phosphate Beds of South Carolina  published in the Journal of the Academy for 1887.
Among the remains of extinct animals described in this admirable memoir may be mentioned the teeth of the gigantic sharks rays and teliosts the vertebme earbones and teeth of whales the bones of the manatee and walrus the teeth and bones of the elephant.
Megatherium horse tapir bison deer beaver and capybara many of which Avere representative of entirely new genera and species.
During the interval elapsing between the publication of the work just referred to and his death.
Dr. Leidy from time to time as occasion offered made communications to the Academy on the remains of extinct animals submitted to him for determination.
All of these observations are of interest and importance and are marked by the same exactness and accuracy of description so characteristic of all the work of the great paleontologist.
It will be observed from this necessarily brief resume of Dr. Leidy 's work that he made contributions to the sciences of mineralogy botany zoology  general comparative and human anatomy and paleontology.
Of his numerous scientific communications some were very brief mere notices others exhaustive and elaborate treatises.
His work however whether lengthy or brief was always most exact and accurate.
Later investigators in the same fields of research have been able to point out but few errors of interpretation still fewer of fact.
His works are essentially records of facts often new and of the greatest scientific importance containing but rarely any generalizations or deductions based upon the same.
Possibly no country ever produced a student whose knowledge of nature was at once so accurate and so comprehensive.
He was an excellent mineralogist and botanist without claiming to be either among the highest living authorities on comparative anatomy and zoology one of the most distinguished helminthologists living and the equal of any paleontologist at home or abroad.
The following catalogue of volumes papers and communications published by Dr. Joseph Leidy illustrates the extent variety and value of his contributions to science   Bibliography.
1.
On the existence of the sack of the dart and of the dart in several species of North American pneumonobranchiate Mollusks.
Boston Proc.
Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
II 1845 p. 5960.
2.
Notes taken on a visit td White Pond in Warren Co. New Jersey.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
845 pp.
279281.
3.
Anatomical description of the animal of Littorina angulifera Lam.
1845.
Bostoji Jour.
Nat.
Hist.
V 184547 pp.
344347.
4.
On several important points in the Anatomy of the human larvn.v.
Amer.
Jour.
Med.
Sci.
XII 1846 pp.
141143 5.
Remarks upon the Anatomy of the abdominal viscera of the Sloth Bradypus tridactylis Linn.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IH 1846 pp.
287288.
6.
On an Enlozoon from the thigh of a hog.
Trichina spiralis
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1846 pp.
107108.
7.
Fecundity of Cryptogamia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1846 p. 195.
8.
On tiie Anatomy of Spectrum femoratum Say.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Ill 184647 pp.
8084.
9.
Description of a new genus and species of Entozoa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Ill 184647 pp.
100101.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
XIX 1847 pp.
209210.
10.
On the mechanism which closes the membranous wings of the genus Locusta.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
HI 184647 pp.
104105.
Ann.
Nat Hist.
XIX 1847 pp.
214215.
11.
On the situation of the olfactory sense in the terrestrial tribe of the Gasteropodous Molhisca.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
HI 184647 pp.
136137.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
XX 1847 pp.
210211.
Silliman's Journ.
Ill 1847 pp.
434435.
12.
Discovery of crystals in the cellular structure of Parmelia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1847 p. 210.
13.
On the Cranium of a New Hollander.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1847 p. 217.
14.
On an Entozoon from the Pericardium of Helix alternata Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1847 pp.
22t221.
15.
Request o change the name of an Entozoon from Cryptobia to Cryptoicus.
Proc.
Acad Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1847 p. 239.
16.
Remarks on Squalina Dumerili.
Proc.
.cad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1847 p. 247.
17.
On the fossil Horse of America.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Ill 184647 pp.
262266.
18.
Description and Anatomy of a new and curious subgenus of Planaria.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Ill 184647.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
I 1848.
19.
Description of two new species of Planaria.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Ill 184647 pp.
251252.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
I 1848 pp.
7879.
20.
Additional observations on the Fossil Horse of America.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1847 pp.
262266.
21.
On a new genus and species of fossil Ruminantia Poebrotherium Wilsoni.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Ill 184647 pp.
322326.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
1 1848 pp.
389392.
Silliman's Journ.
V 1848 pp.
276279.
22.
History and anatomy of the hemipterous genus Belostoma.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
I 184750 pp.
5767.
23.
Miscellanea Zoologica.
1.
Description of a new genus and species of Entozoa Cryptobia helicis.
2.
On the mechanism which closes the membranous wings of the genus Locusta.
8.
On the situation of the olfactory sense in the terrestrial tribe of the Gasteropodous Moilusca.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
I 184750 pp.
6770.
24.
Descriptions of two species of Distoma with the partial history of one of them.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
I 184750 pp.
301310.
25.
Researches into the comparative structure of the Liver.
Am.
Jour.
Med.
Sci.
Phila.
1848.
26.
On the eye of the Balanus.
Silliman's Journ.
VI 1848 p. 130.
27.
On the existence of the eye in the perfect Cirrhipoda.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1848 pp.
12.
28.
On some bodies in the Boaconstrictor resembling the Pacinian corpuscles.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IV 184849 pp.
2728.
MuUer's Archiv.
1848 pp.
527530.
29.
On a new fossil genus and species of luminantoid Pachydermata Merycoidodon Culbertsonii.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IV 184849 pp.
4750.
31.
Remarks on the hair of a Hottentot boy brought to Phila.
by Capt.
Chase.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1848 p. 7.
31.
Observations on the development of bone the structure of articular cartilage and on the relation of the areolar tissue with muscle and tendon.
Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IV 184849. pp.
116117. o2.
Observations on the existence of the intermaxillary bone in the embryo of the human subject.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IV 184849 pp.
145147.
33.
Tapirus Americanus fossilis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila IV 184849 pp.
1S0I83.
34.
On the existence of Entophyta in healthy animals as a natural condition.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IV 184849 pp.
225233.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
V 1850 pp.
7176.
35.
On the intimate structure and history of the articular cartilages.
Am.
Jour.
Med.
Sci.
Phila.
1849.
36.
On some new genera and species of Entozoa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IV 181849 pp.
229233.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
V 1850 pp.
314317.
37.
Observations on the characters and intimate structure of the odoriferous glands of the Invertebrata.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IV 184849 pp.
234236.
38.
Descriptions of new genera and species of Entophyta.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IV 184849 pp.
249250.
39.
On the intimate structure and history of the articular cartilages.
Amer.
Tourn.
Med.
Sci.
XVII 1849 pp.
277294.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
IV 1849 pp.
156158.
4 0.
On the development of the Purkinjean corpuscle in bone.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
IX 1849 pp.
7475.
41.
On the arrangement of the areolar sheith of muscular fascicule and its relation to the tendon.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
IV 1849 pp.
158159.
42.
Internal anatomy of Corydalus cornutus in its three stages of existence.
1848.
Boston Mem.
Amer.
Acad.
IV 1849 pp.
162168.
43.
Descriptions accompanied by drawings of new genera and species Entophyta.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Thila.
1849 pp.
249250.
44.
Notice of certain peculiar bodies observed in the human subject.
Amer.
Journ.
Med.
Sci.
XX 1850 pp.
8991.
45.
Notice on the formation of some crystalline bodies in collodion.
American Journ.
Phaim.
XVI.
1850 pp.
2426.
46.
On the characters and intimate structure of the odoriferous glands of the Inverteir.Tla.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
V 1851 pp.
154r1.56.
47.
Nvctotherus a new genus of Polygastrica allied to Plesconia.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
V'85 pp 158159.
48.
On crystalline bodies in tissues of plants.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1851 pp.
3233.
9.
On Rhinoceros occidentalis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1850 p. 119.
50.
Descriptions of new Entophyta growing within animals.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
3536.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
VII 1851 pp.
236237.
51.
Observations on two new genera of mammalian fossils Eucrotaphus Jacksoni and Archreotherium Mortoni.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
.Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
9094.
52.
Contributions to Helminthology.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
9698.
 Six separate papers. 
53.
Notes on the development of the Gordius aquaticus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
98100.
54.
Two new species of infusorial Entozoa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 p. 100.
55.
Description of some Nematoid Entozoa infesting Insects.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
100102.
56.
Descriptions of three FilariK.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 18o051 pp.
117119.
57.
On the nettlinp organs of the Hydra.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila V 185051 pp.
119121.
58.
On some fossil Mammalian remain.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
121lL'2.
59.
Descriptions of new genera of Vermes.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila V 185051 pp.
124126.
60.
Descriptions of new species of Entozoa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V. 185051 pp.
155156.
61 On a Fossil Tortoise Stylemjs Nebrascensis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
172173.
62.
Contributions to Helminthology.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
205209 224227 239244 284290 349351.
63.
On fossil remains of Ruminant ungulates from Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
237239.
64.
On the genus Plumatella Bosc.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
261263.
65.
On Cristatella Cuv.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
265266.
66. Corrections and additions to former papers on Helminthology.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
284290.
67.
On the fossil remains of Balaena palaeallantica and B. prisca from the Miocene formation of Virginia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051. pp.
308309.
68.
On some American fresh water Polyzoa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
320322.
69.
On some fossil Reptilian and Mammalian remains.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
V 185051 pp.
325330.
70.
Description of some American Anellida abranchia.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
II 185054 pp.
4350.
71.
Description of a new species of Crocodile from the Miocene of Virginia.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
II 185054 pp.
135138.
72.
On the osteology of the head of Hippopotamus and a description of the o.steological characters of a new genus of Hippopotamida.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
II 185054 pp.
207224.
73On Balhygnathus borealis an extinct Saurian of the new Red Sandstone of Prince Edward Island.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
11 ls5054 pp.
327330.
74.
Special Anatomy of the Gasteropoda of the United States.
Terrest.
Moll.
of U. S. Binney 1 1851 pp.
198260 pis.
IXVI.
75.
Zoological Researches.
Silbman's Journ.
XI 1851 pp.274275.
76.
On some fragments of Paljeotherium Proulii.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1851 pp.
170171.
77.
On the transplantation of Animal Tissues.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1851 p. 201.
78.
On Fungous growth in the Molecricket two papers.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1851 pp.
204 210211.
79.
On the mtroduction of cancerous matter into the integument of the frog.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1851 p. 212.
80.
On fungous disease in Cicada septcmdecim.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1851 p. 235.
81.
On the Gordiacee.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1851 pp.
262263 275.
82.
Report upon some fossil Mammalia and Chelonia from Nebraska.
Smithsonian Reports 1852 pp.
6365.
83.
Remarks on a fossil vertebra from Ouachita La.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1852 p. 52.
84.
On the osteology of Hippopotamus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1852 pp.
5253.
85.
On fossil Tortoises from Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1852 p. 59.
86.
On red snow from the Arctic regions.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1852 p. 59.
87.
On two crania of extinct species of Ox.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1852 p. 71.
88.
On the Honey Ant of Mexico.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1852 p. 72.
89.
Reference to a fossil tooth of a Tapir.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1852 p. 106.
90.
Remarks on the fosI Ox.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1852 p. 117.
91.
Remarks on some fossil teeih of a Rhinoceros from Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1852 p. 2.
92.
On a Fossil Turtle from Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1852 p. 34.
93.
On a new species of fossil Deiphinus and a new Saurian Thoracosaurus grandis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
T 185253 p. 35.
94.
Ursus amplidens new fossil species.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VI 185253 p. 3i3.
95.
On .some fossil Cetacean remains.
PrQC.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VI 185253 pp.
377378.
96.
Description of the remains of extinct Mammalia and Chelonia from Nebraska Territory collected during the Geological Survey under the direction of Dr. David Dale Owen.
Rept.
of Geo.
Surv.
of Wisconsin Iowa and Minnesota D. D. Owen 1852 pp.
540572.
97.
On the organization of the genus Gregarina Dufour 1851.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc.
Trans.
X 1853 pp.
233240.
98.
Some observations on Nematoidea imperfecta and descriptions of three parasitic Infusoria.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc.
Trans.
X 1853 pp.
241244.
99.
Description of an extinct species of American Lion Felis atrox 1852.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc.
Trans.
X 1853 pp.
319322.
100.
A memoir on the extinct Dicotylinte of America 1852.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc.
Trans.
X 1853 pp.
323344.
101.
A Flora and Fauna within Living Animals 1851.
Smithson.
Contrib.
V 1853.
102.
Memoir on the extinct species of American Ox 1852.
Smithson.
Contrib.
V 1853.
103.
Remarks on various fossil teeth.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1853 p. 241.
104.
On some fossil fragments from Natchez Miss.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1853 p. 303.
105.
Remarks on a collection of Fossil Mammalia and Chelonia from the Mauvaises Terres of Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1853 pp.
392394.
106.
Character explained of nodular bodies found in the tails and fins of fishes from Cold Pond N. H. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1853 p. 433.
107.
Lecture introductory to the course of Anatomy delivered in the University of Pennsylvania.
8vo T. Phila.
1853 pp.
122.
108.
The ancient Fauna of Nebraska or a description of remains of extinct Mammalia and Chelonia from the Mauvaises Terres of Nebraska 1852.
Smithsonian Contrib.
VI 1S54 pp.
392394.
109.
On Brimosaufus grandis n. g. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VII 1854 p. 72. no.
On Bison latifrons.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VII 1854 p. 89.
111.
On Dinictis filina.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
.Sci.
Phila.
1854 p. 127.
112.
n Prof. Lindley's review of  A fauna and flora within living animals.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1854 pp.
128129.
113.
On Hydrachna.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1854 p. 202.
114.
Hippodon and Merycodus new fossil genera indicated.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Piiila.
VII 185455 p. 90.
115.
Synopsis of extinct Mammalia the remains of which have heen discoverecl in the eocene formations of Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VII 185455 pp.
156158.
116.
Description of a fossil apparently indicating an extinct species of the Camel tribe.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VII i8.54o5 pp.
172178.
117.
On Urnatella gracilis and a new species of Plumatella.
Proc.
Acad Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VII 185455 pp.
191192.
118.
Notice of some fossil bones discovered by Mr. Francis A. Lincke in the banks of the Ohio River Indiana.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VII 185455 pp.
199liOl.
119.
Remarks on the question of the identity of Bootherium cavifrons with Oribos moschatus or O. maximus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VII 185455 pp.
209110.
120.
Indications of twelve species of Fossil Fishes from New Jersey and S. Carolina.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VII 185455 pp.
395397.
121.
Indications of five species with two new genera of extinct Fishes.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila VII 185455 p. 414.
123.
Notices of some Tape Worms.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VII 85455 pp.
443444.
123.
A memoir on the extinct Sloth Tribe of North America 1853.
Smilhson.
Contrib.
VII 1855.
124.
On a socalled fossil man.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila.
1855 p. 340.
125.
Contributions toward a knowledge of the Marine Invertebrate Fauna of the coasts of Rhode Island and New Jersey.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Ill 185558 pp.
135152.
126.
Descriptions of some remains of Fishes from the Carboniferous and Devonian Formations of the United States.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Ill 185558 pp.
159165.
127.
De.criptions of some remains of extinct Mammalia.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Ill 185558 pp.
166171.
128.
Descriptions of two Ichthyodorulites.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Piiila.
VIII 1856 pp.
1112.
Silliman's Journ.
XXI.
1856 pp.
421422.
129.
A Svnopsis of Entozoa and some of the Eciocongeners.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 1856 pp.
4258.
130.
Notices of some remains of extinct Mammalia discovered by Dr. F. V. Hayden in the Bad Lands of Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci Phila.
VIII 1856 pp.
5960.
131.
Notices of remains of extinct Reptiles and Fishes discovered by Dr. F. V. Hayden in the Bad Lands of the udith River Nebraska Territory.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
I'hila.
VIII 1856 pp.
7276.
Silliman's lourn.
XXI 1856 pp.
422423.
132.
Notices of remains of extinct Mammalia discovered by Dr. F. V. Hayden in Nebraska Territory.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila VIII 1856 pp.
8890.
133.
Notices of the remains of a species of Seal from the postpliocene deposit of the Ottawa River.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 1856 pp.
9091.
134.
Notices of several genera of extinct Mammalia previously less perfectly characterized.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 1856 pp.
9192.
133.
Notices of some remains of extinct Vertebrated Animals.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 1856 pp.
162165.
136.
Notices of some remains of extinct Vertebrated Animals of New Jersey collected by Prof Cook.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 1856 pp.
220221.
137.
Notices of remains of extinct Vertebrated Animals discovered by Professor E. Emmons.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 1856 pp.
255256.
Silliman's Journ XXIII 1857 pp.
271272.
138.
Notices of some remains of Fishes discovered by Dr. John E. Evans.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 1856 pp.
256257.
139.
Notices of remains of two species of Seals.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 1856 p. 265.
140.
Remarks on certain extinct species of Fishes.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII.
1856 pp.
311312.
141.
Notices of remains of extinct Turtles of New Jersey collected by Prof. Cook.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 1856 pp 303304.
142.
Notices of extinct Vertebrata discovered by Dr. F. V. Hayden duringthe expedition to the Sioux country.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 1856 pp.
311312.
143.
List of extinct Vertebrata the remains of which have been discovered in the region of the Missouri river with remarks on their geological age.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IX 1S57 pp.
8991.
144.
Notices of some remains of extinct Fishes.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IX 1857 pp.
167168.
145.
Remirk on a large species of Gordius and larva of CEstrus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IX 1857 p. 204.
146.
On a boring Sponge.
Silliman's Journ.
XXIII 1857 pp.
281282.
147.
Observations on Entozoa found in the Naiades.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1857 p. 18.
148.
On Coprolites and Shales with Posidonire.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1857. p. 149.
149.
On New Red Sandstone fnssils from the Gwynnedd Tunnel North Penna.
R. Road.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1857 p. 150.
150.
Rectificationofthe references of the extinct Mammalian genera of Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1857 pp.
175176.
151.
On the dentition of the Mosasaurus.
Pioc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1857 p. 176.
152.
On Oecanthus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1857 p. 177.
J53.
On a curious animalcule on stones and dead plants in the Schuylkill and Delaware Rivers.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1857 p. 204.
154.
Observations on the introduction of the Camel into North America.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1857 p. 210.
155.
Notices of remains of extinct Vertebrata from the Valley of the Niobrara River collected during the Exploring expedition of 1857 in Nebraska by Dr. F. V. Hayden.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
X 1858 pp.
2029.
156.
Contributions to Helminthology.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
X 1858 pp.
110112.
157.
On Urnatella gracilis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 p. 1.
158.
Remarks on Fossil Mammalia from Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 p. 7.
1.59.
Notice of Remains of extinct vertebrata from the valley of the Niobrara River.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 p. 11.
160.
Remarks on a cast of a Mastodon tooth.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 p. 12.
161.
Remarks on fossil remains from Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 pp.
8990.
162.
Remarks on Chrysalides of the canker worm.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 p. 137.
163.
Remarks on Rhyncodemus sylvaticus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 pp.
171172.
104.
Remarks on a specimen of Cryolite.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 p. 177.
165.
Remarks on Antler of Reindeer.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 p. 179.
166.
Remarks on Polyzoa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 pp.
188190.
167.
Remarks on Hadrosaurus Foulkii.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858. pp.
215218.
168.
Valedictory address to the class of Medical Graduates at the University of Pennsylvania.
Mnrch 27 1858 pp.
132.
169.
Lecture introductory to the course on Anatomy in the Univer.ity of Pennsylvania for the sesMon of 185859 8voT.
Phila.
1859 pp.
124.
170.
Observations on three kinds of dipterous larva from man.
ProC.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila.
XI 1859 pp.
78.
171.
On Manayunkia speciosa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
18.59 p. 2.
172.
On Hystracantlius arcuatus and Cladodus occidentalis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.
Phila.
1859 p. 3.
173.
Remarks on tooth of Mastodon and bones of Mosasaurus.
Proc.
Acad Nat.
Sci Phila.
1859 pp.
9192.
174. llemarks on teetli of Clepsysaurus Eurydorus serridens and Compsosaurus from Phoenixville tunnel Chester Co. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1859 p. 110.
175.
Remarks on fossils from Bethany Va. and also from the Green Sand Monmouth Co. N. J. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1859 p. 110.
170.
Remarks on Ossite from Sombrero W. I. on skull of Ursus Americanus from the drift Claiborne Mi.ss.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1859 p. 111.
177.
Remarks on fragment of jaw of Mosasaurus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1859 p. 150.
178.
Oil specimens of Palteotrochus from subsilurian strata.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1859 p. 150.
179.
Remarks on Dromatherium sylvestre and other fossils from Chatham Co. N. C. Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1859 p. 162.
180.
Remarks on antler of the Reindeer found at Sing.Sing and remarks on JVeija Americana from Newport.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1859 p. 194.
181.
On the seat of the vesicating principle of Lytta vittata.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1859. p. 256.
182.
Introductory lecture to the course of Anatomy delivered in the University of Pennsylvania Oct. 11 1859.
8vo T. Phila.
1859 pp.
123.
183.
Notices of remains of the Walrus discovered on the coast of the United States J 856.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc.
Trans.
XI I860 pp.
8387.
184.
Descriptions of the remains of fishes from tiie carboniferous limestone of  Illinois and Missouri 1856.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc.
Trans.
XI 1860 pp.
8790.
185.
Remarks on Saurocephalus and its allies 1856.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc.
Trans.
XI I860 pp.
9195.
186.
Obiervations on the extinct Peccary of North America being a sequel to  A memoir on the extinct Dicotylinas of America 1856.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc.
Trans.
XI I860 pp.
97115.
187.
Remarks on the structure of the feet of Megalonyx 1856.
Amer.
Phil.
.Soc.
Trans.
XI 1860. pp.
107118.
188.
Extinct Verttbrata from the Judith River and great lignite formations of Nebraska.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc.
Trans.
XI I860 pp.
139154.
189.
Remarks on Albertite.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
I860 p. 54.
190.
Remarks on Hyalonema mirabilis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1860 p 85.
191.
Remarks on experiments with Trichina spiralis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci Pliila.
I860 p. 96.
192.
Notice of specimen of Hyla.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
I860 p. 305.
193Remarks on fo.vsil teeth of Hippotherium from Washington County Texas.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
I860 p 416.
194.
Remarks on an extinct Peccary from Dr. D. D. Owen.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.
Phila.
I860 p. 416.
195.
An Elementary Tre.tise on Human Anatomy with threehundred and ninetytwo illustrations pp.
IXXIV.1763.
Phila.
1861.
Second Edition of S.AME with fourhundred and ninety five illustrations pp.
1950 Phila.
1889.
196.
On the discovery of lignite at the border of the new red sandstone on Plymouth Creek.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.
Phila.
1861 p. 77.
197Remarks on certain minerals found in or near the city.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1862. p. 507.
198.
Remarks on a female Phalangopsis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1SG3 p. 212.
25 199.
Cretaceous reptiles of the United States 1854.
Smithsonian Reports 18ti4 pp.
6678.
Smithsonian Contrib.
XIV 1865 Art.
6.
Geol.
Mag.
V. 1868 pp.
4.3.43.5.
200.
Fossil remains of Horses from California.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1865 p. 94.
201.
Fossil remains of Rhinoceros from Texas and California.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1865 pp.
176177.
202.
O'oservations on the existence of a boring sponge during the cretaceous period.
Prjc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1865 p. 95.
2l3.
Observations on a Kjokkenmodding at Cape Henlopen.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1865 p. 95.
204.
Remarks on a foetal Acanthias Amcricanus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1865 p. 175.
205.
Observations on Cryolite.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Phila.
1865 p. 181.
206.
Remarks on specimens of Oolitic Phosphates of Lime and Alumina.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1865 p. 181.
207.
On bones and stone implements from Guano deposits in the Island of OrchiUa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1865 pp.
181183.
208.
Observations on Indian relics.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1866 p. 1.
209.
Remarks on a phalanx of an extinct reptile.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1866 p. 9.
210.
Remarks on cancer of liver in Turkey and on Trichina.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1866 p. 9.
211.
Remarks on human relics at Petite Anse La.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1866 p. 109.
212.
Remarks on fossils presented June 5th.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1866. p. 237.
213.
Observations on the Kitchen Middens of Cape Henlopen.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1866 pp.
290291.
214.
On Fossil bones from Mauvaises Terras Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phda.
1866 p. 345.
315.
Remarks on the skull of Bison latifrons.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1867 p. 85.
216.
Exhibition of the skull of Geomvs bursarius.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1867 p. 97.
217.
Of an antique coffer hammer.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1867 p. 97.
218.
Of the skull of Castoroides Ohioensis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1867 p. 97.
219.
Of specimens of black hornstone.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1867 p 125.
220.
Notices of some Vertebrate remains from Hardin Co. Texas.
Proc.
Acad Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 pp.
174176.
221.
Indication of an Elotherium in California.
Proc.
.cad.
Nat.
.Sci.
Phila 1868 p. 177.
222.
Notices of some Reptilian remains from Nevada.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci Phila.
1868. pp.
177178.
223.
Notices of some Vertebrate remains from the West Indian Islands.
Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1868 pp.
178 180.
224.
Notices of some remains of horses.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 p 195.
225.
Notices of some extinct Cetaceans.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 pp 196197.
226.
Remarks on a jaw fragment of Megalosaurus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1868 pp.
197199.
227.
Remarks on Conosaurus Gibbes.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 pp 200202.
228Notices of American species of Ptychodus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1868 pp.
20.5208.
229.
Notices of some American Leeches.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
868 pp.
lil'9230.
230.
Notices of some remains of extinct Pachyderms Dicotyles nasutus Anchippus Texanus Ancliippodus riparius Lophiodon occidentalis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1SG8 pp.
230283.
231.
Notices of some remains of extinct Insectivora from Dakota.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 pp.
315316.
232.
Description of Wolffia Columbiana.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 pp.
67.
233.
Description of a new sponge  Pheronema Annai.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Biol and Micr.
Section 1868 pp.
911.
234.
Remarks on Sombrero Guano.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 pp.
156157.
235.
On the food of the shad.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 p. 228.
236.
On supposed Coprolites from the Huronian slates of Minnesota.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 pp.
302303.
237.
On the iridescence of opals.
Proc.
Acad Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 p. 303.
238.
On asterism in Mica.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868. p. 313.
239.
On photograph of fossil bones from Topeka Kansas.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1868 p. 315.
240.
On the extinct Mammalia of Dakota and Nebraska including an account of some allied forms from other localities.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Journ.
VII 1869 pp.
23362.
241.
Synopsis of extinct Mammalia of North America.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Journ.
VII 1869 pp.
363472.
242.
Notices of some extinct Vertebrates from Wyoming and Dakota.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1869 pp.
6367.
243.
Elasmosaurus platyurus Cope.
Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
XLIX 1870 p. 392.
244.
Fossil Sivatlienum from Colorado Megacerops coloradensis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
113.
245.
Remarks on Puicilopleuron valens Baptemys Wyomingensis Emys Stevensonianus and other fossils from Middle Park Colorado.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
35.
246.
On Reptilian remains from the cretaceous formation near Fort Wallace Kansas.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870. pp.
910.
247.
On a fossil mandible from near Fort Bridger Wyoming.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sti.
Phila.
1870 pp.
1011.
248.
Remarks on Xiphactinus audax and other Ichthyodorulites.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
1213.
249.
Remarks on Asteracanthus siderius.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 13.
250.
On Hadrosaurus and its allies.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 6768.
251.
Descriptions of Oncobatis pentagonus and Mylocyprinus robustus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
6971.
252.
On a new species of leech from near Philadelphia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
8990 253.
On .Mastodon remains of the Warren Museum and the Cambridge University Museum.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
9699.
2'4.
On Crocodilus EUiotti.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
100 122.
255.
On Urnatella a genus of ciliated polyps of the family Pedictllinidae.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1H70 pp.
100102.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
VII 1871 pp.
319312.
256.
On some fossils from the Sweet Water River Wyoming Territory.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
109110.
257.
Description of a new species of Oreodon  O. superbus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
111112.
258.
On Ancliitherium Condoni and Cordylophora Americana.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
112113.
259.
Discnpiions of Palseosyops paludosus Microsu cuspidatusand Notharctus tenebrosiis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila.
1870 pp.
113114.
260.
Descriptions of Graphiodon vinearius a fossil reptile.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 122.
261.
Reptilian remains from Wyoming Emys Teanesi E. Haydeni Bena arenosa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
123124.
262.
Fossil remains of a Lacertian discovered near Granger Saniwa ensidens.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
124125.
263 Fossil fragment of the'lower jaw of a small pachyderm Lophiotherium sylvaticum.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phda.
1870. p. 126.
264.
On the humerus ot a sloth resembling Mylodon robustus and on Dromotherium sylvesire.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
89.
265.
On specimens of vertebral bodies from the New Jersey green sand.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 10.
266.
On Ichthyodorulites.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
1213.
267.
On fossil remains from Illinois.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870. p. 13.
268.
On Discosaurus and its allies.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
1822.
269.
On the internal organs of generation of a hog.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 p. 65.
270.
On fossil bones from Dakota and Nebraska.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 6566.
271.
On fossil remains from Idaho Utah and Oregon.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
6768.
272.
On Anguillulidae.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
6869.
273.
On fossils from the vicinity of Burlington Kansas and from the Rocky Mts.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 69.
274.
On the relations of European and American fauna.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
7273.
275.
On a jaw fragment of Ovibos cavifrons.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 73.
276.
On Nothosaurops occiduus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 74.
277.
On leeches.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
8990.
278.
On Mastodon remains.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
9699.
279.
0fossil remains in the Museum of Amherst College.
Proc.
Acad Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 98.
280.
On fossils from Bridge Creek Oregon.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
111113.
281.
On Cordylophora.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 113.
282.
On fossils from Church Buttes Wyoming Territory.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
113114.
283.
On fossils found under Table Mountain Cal.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
125126.
284.
Exhibition of the lower jaw of an aged man and a wood carving from St. Paul de Loando.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 p. 133.
285.
On the reversed viscera of a human subject.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phiia.
1870 p. 134.
286.
Remarks on some curious Sponges.
Amer.
Nat.
IV.
1871 pp.
1722.
287.
On Taenia mediocanellata.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
1871 pp.
5355.
288.
On Some extinct Turtles from Wyoming Territorv.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1870 pp.
102103.
289.
Remains of extinct Mammals from Wyoming.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 pp.
113116.
290.
Remains of Palteosvops from Fort Bridger.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 p. 118.
291.
Remarks on a fossil Testudo from Wyoming.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 p. 154.
292.
Remarks on supposed fossil Turtle Eggs.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 pp.
154155.
293.
Fossils from Wyoming.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Piiila.
1871 p. 197.
294.
Remarks on fossil vertebrates from Wyoming.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 pp.
228229.
295.
Notice of some extinct Rodents from Wyoming and description of Mysops minimus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 pp.
230232.
296.
Remarks on the Minerals of Mount Mica.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 pp.
245247.
297.
Remarks on Fossils from Oregon  Hadrohyus supremus Rhinoceros pacificus.
Stylemys Oregonensis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 pp.
247248.
298 Notice of a new Tapeworm Dibothrium cordiceps.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Phila.
1881 pp.
305307.
299.
On a small collection of fossils from California.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871. p. .50.
300.
On Polydactylism in a horse.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 p. 113.
301.
On remains of Mastodon and Horse in North Carolina.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 p. 113.
302.
Remarks on the Garnets of Green's Creek Delaware Co. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 p. 155.
303.
Remarks on Mastodon etc.
of California.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 pp.
198199.
304.
Note on Anchitherium.
Proc.
Acad.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 p. 199.
305.
Remarks on fossil vertebrates from Wyoming.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 pp.
228229.
306.
Flies as means of communicating contagious diseases.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1871 p. 297.
307.
On some new species of fossil mammalia from Wyoming Paleeosyops humilis Uintatherium robutum Uintamasti.x atro.x.
Amer.
Tourn.
Sci.
IV 1872 pp.
239240.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 pp.
167169.
308.
Notices of Corundum.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 p. 19.
309.
Remarks on fossils from Wyoming.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 pp.
1921.
310.
Remarks on some extinct Mammals.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 pp.
3738.
311.
Remarks on some extinct Vertebrates Felis augustus Oligosimus grandsevus.
Tylosteus ornatus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 pp.
3840.
312.
On a new genus of e.xtinct Turtles.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 p. 162.
313.
On some remains of cretaceous fi.shes Otodus divaricatus Oxyrhina extenta .Acrodus humilis Pycnodus faba.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872. pp 1G2164.
314.
On Artemia salina from Salt Lake Utah.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1872 pp.
164166.
315.
Remarks on the habits of an Ant.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 p 218.
316.
Remarks on mineral springs etc.
of Wyoming and Utah.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.
Phila.
1872 pp.
218220.
317.
Notice of a corundum mine in Pennsylvania.
Proc.
.'cad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1872. pp.
238239.
318.
Remarks on fossil Mammals from Wyoming Uintatherium robustum Palseosyops major.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 pp.
240242.
319.
Remarks on chipped stones from Wyoming.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 pp.
242243.
320.
Remarks on fossils from Wyoming Palseosyops junior Uintacyon edax U. vorax Chameleo pristinus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 p. 277.
321.
On a Mite in the Ear of an Ox.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1872. pp.
910.
322.
Note on Gamasus of the Ox.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872. p. 138.
323.
Remarks on Mastodon from New Mexico.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 p. 142.
324.
Remarks on fossil shark teeth.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872. p. 166.
325.
Remarks on the action of wind and sand on rocks.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1872 p. 243.
326.
Contributions to the Extinct Fauna of the Western Territories.
Rept.
U. S. Geo.
Sur.
of Ter.
Hayden I 1873 pp.
1358 pis.
IXXXVII.
327.
Notice of fossil Vertebrates from the Miocene of Virginia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
.Sci.
Phila.
1873 p. 15.
328.
Notice of remains of fishes in Bridger Tertiary formation of Wyoming.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1873 pp.
9799.
329.
Remarks on the occurrence of an extinct Hog in America.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1873 p. 207.
330.
Remarks on extinct Mammals in California.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1873 pp.
259260.
331.
Fungus Parasite on a Mouse.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1873 pp.
260261.
332.
On Distoma hepaticum.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1873 pp.
364365.
333.
Remarks on fossil Elephant teeth.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
pp.
416417.
334.
On circulatory movement in Vaucheria.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1873 p. 420.
335.
On Iron Pyrites in Coal.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1873 p. 257.
336.
On a specimen of Mus rattus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1873 p. 257.
337.
On Dufrenite.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1873 p. 257.
338.
On Lingula in a fish of the Susquehanna.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1873 p. 41.5416.
339.
Remarks on Hydra.
Proc.
.Vcad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 10.
340.
Remarks on Protozoa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 13.
341.
On the Mode of Growth of Desmids.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 15.
342.
On Actinophrys sol.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874. p. 23.
343.
Note on the Enemies of Difflugia.
Proc.
.Vcad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 75.
344.
Remarks on a supposed Compound derived from Leather.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 75.
345.
Notices of some New Freshwater Rhizopods.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 77.
346.
Notices of some Freshwater and Terrestrial Rhizopods.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 pp.
8688.
347.
Remarks on the Revivification of Rotifer vulgaris.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 pp.
8889.
318.
On Pectinatella magnifica.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 139.
349.
On a Parasitic Worm of the Housefly.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1874 p. 139.
350.
Notices of some Fresh Water Infusoria.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1874 p. 140.
351.
Notice of a remarkable Amoeba.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 pp 142143.
352.
On the Mode in which Amoeba swallows its Food.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci Phila.
1874 p. 143.
353.
On the Motive Power of Diatoms.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p 143.
354.
Remarks on Sponges.
Proc.
.cad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 144.
1891.
355.
Notices of some Rhizopods.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1S74 pp.
155157.
356.
Note on Dryocampa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 160.
357.
Notice of remains of Titanotherium.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 pp.
165166.
358.
Note of Rhizopods.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 pp.
166168.
359.
On Supposed Spermaries in Amoeba.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 168.
360.
On Specific Gravity.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 p. 218.
361.
Remarks on Fossils presented.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 pp 223224.
362.
Notices of Rhizopods.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1874 pp.
225227.
363.
Description of vertebrate remains chiefly from the Phosphate Beds of South Carolina.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
VIII 187481 pp.
209261.
364.
The Parasites of the Termites.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 187481 pp.
425447.
365.
Remarks on Bathygnathus borealis.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
VIII 187481 pp.
449451.
366.
On a Fungus in a Flamingo.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 pp.
1112.
367.
Notes on some Parasitic Worms.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 pp 1416.
368.
Notes on some Parasitic Worms.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 pp 1718.
369.
Remarks on some marine Rhizopods.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 pp.
7376.
370.
Remarks on a Coal Fossil etc.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 p. 120.
371.
Remarlss on Elephant Remains.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 p 121.
372.
On a Curious Rhizopod.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 p. 124.
373.
On Psorospherms in a Mallard Duck.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1875 p. 125.
374.
On a Mouthless Fish.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 pp.
125126.
375.
On Ouramoeba.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 pp.
126127.
376.
On Mermis acuminata.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 p. 400.
377.
Remarks on Rhizopods.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1875 pp.
413415.
378.
Quercus heterophylla.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
lS75 p. 415.
379.
On Petalodus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1876 p. 9.
380.
Mastodon andium.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1876 p. 38.
381.
Remarks on Arcella etc.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1876 pp.
5458.
3S2.
Remarks on Fossils from the Ashley Phosphate Beds.
Proc.
Acad Nat Sci.
Phila.
1876 pp.
8081 8687.
383.
Fish Remains of the Mesozoic Red Shales.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci Phila 1876. p. 81.
384.
Remarks on Fossds from the A.shley Phosphate Beds.
Proc.
Acad Nat Sci.
Phila.
1876 pp.
8687.
385.
Remarks on Vertebrate Fossils from the Phosphate Beds of S. Carolina.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1876 pp.
114115.
386.
Remarks on the Rhizopod Genus Nebela.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci Phila 1876 pp.
115119.
387.
Bituminous Sediment of the Schuylkill River.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci Phila 1876. p. 193.
3S8.
Remarks on the Structure of Precious Opal.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci Phila 1876 pp.
195197.
389.
Observations on Rhizopods.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1876 p. 197.
390.
On Ozocerite.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1876 p. 325.
391.
On Hyraceum.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1876 p. 325.
392.
Impurities in Drinking Water.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 p. 20.
393.
On Eozoon.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 p. 20.
394.
 n the Diaphragm.
Pioc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 p. 20.
395.
Remarks on the Yellow Ant.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1877 p. 145.
396.
On Intestinal Parasites of Termes flavipes.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 pp.
146149.
397.
Remarks on Gregarines.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 pp.
196198.
398.
On Chilomonas.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877. p. 198.
399.
On Flukes infesting Mollusks.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 p. 200.
400.
Remarks on some Parasitic Infusoria.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 pp.
2.59260.
41.
Remarks on the SeventeenYear Locust the Hessian Fly and a Chelifer.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 pp.
26U261.
402.
Birth of a Rhizopod.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
1877 pp.
261205.
403.
On the Bedbug and its Allies.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 p. 284.
404.
On the Feeding of Dinamoeba.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
.Sci.
Phila.
1877 pp.
28S290.
405.
Concretions resembling Bones.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 p. 290.
406.
.Kpparent Discriminative Power in the Selection of Food by a Heliozoon.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 pp.
291292.
407.
Remarks on Rhizopods and Notice of a New Form.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 pp.
293294.
408.
On Fossil Fishes.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877. pp.
294.
409.
Remarks on Ants.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 pp.
804305.
410.
Remarks on the .merican Species of Difflugia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 pp.
306308.
411.
Circumspection of Ants.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 p. 320.
412.
Rhizopods in an Apple Tree.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1877 p. 321.
413.
On Citrine or Yellow Quartz.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
.Sci.
Phila.
1878 p. 40.
414.
On Hippopotamus Tusk.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 p. 99.
415.
On Amceb.i.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 p. 99.
416.
A Louse of the Pelican.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 lOOlOl.
417.
On Parasitic Worms in the Shad.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 p. 171.
418 Species of Euglypha.Trinema Pamphaus and Cyphoderia.
with Synonyma and Descriptions of New Forms.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 pp.
171173.
419.
Foraminifera ofthe Coast of New Jersey.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 p. 292.
420. o'n The Black Mildew of Walls.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 p. 331.
421.
Remarks on Mactra.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 pp.
332333.
422.
Foraminiferous Shells of our Coast.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 p. 336.
423.
On Crustaceans at Cape May N. J. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 pp.
336337.
424.
Notice of a Tetrarhynchus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 p. 340.
425.
On Donax fossar.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 pp.
382383.
426.
Notices of Gordius in the Cockroach and Leech.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1878 pp.
383384.
427.
On Trenia mediocanellata.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
.Sci.
Phila.
1878 p. 405.
428.
FreshWater Rhizopods of North America..
Kept.
U. S. Geol.
Surv.
of Ter.
Hayden XII 1879 pp.
iix 1324 pis.
1XLVlII.
429.
On Gordis and on some Parasites of the Rat.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1879 pp.
1011.
480.
Fo.ssil Remains of a Caribou.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phib.
1879 pp.
3233.
431.
On Rhizopods occurring in Sphagnum.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1879 pp.
162163.
432.
Fossil Foot Tracks of the Anthracite Coal Measures.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1879 pp.
164165.
433.
Explosion of a Diamond.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Piiila.
1879 p. 195.
434.
Keiiiarkb on Orgyia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1879. pp.
195196.
4o.
Notices of some Animals on the coast of New Jersey.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1879 pp.
198199.
436.
On Cristatclla Idae.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1879 pp.
203204.
437.
0i Amctba Blatta.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
.Sci.
Phila.
1879 pp.
20420.5.
438.
Wards Natural Science Establishment.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1879 pp.
208209.
439.
Notice of the Cruel Thread Worm Filaria immitis of the Dog.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1880 pp.
1012.
440.
On a Filaria Reported to have come from a Man.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1S80 pp.
130131.
4U.
Remarks on Pond Life.
Proc.
.Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1880 pp.
156158.
442.
Rhizopods in the Mosses of the Summit of Roane Mountain N. Carolina.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1880 pp.
333340.
443.
Bjne Caves of Pennsylvania.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1880 pp.
346349.
444.
Rhizopods as Food for Young Fishes.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
1881 pp.
910.
445.
Remarks on some Rock Specimens.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
1012.
446.
Filaria of the Black Bass.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 p. 69.
447.
On Tourmalines.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
7173.
448.
On Balanoglosbus etc.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 p. 93.
449.
.Scolithus in Gravel.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 p. 93.
450.
On Sagitta etc.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
18S2 pp.
102103.
451.
On some Entozoa of Birds.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
182 p. 109.
452.
On a Copr.
lite and a pelible resembling an Indian hammer.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
109110.
453.
On Bacillus Anthracis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 p. 145.
454.
On Enchvtraeus Distichopus and their parasites.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
145148.
455.
The Yellow Ant with its flocks of Aphis and Coccus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882. p. 148.
456.
Colorless Garnet and Tourmaline.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 p. 149.
457.
On Balanus etc.
at Bass Rocks Mass.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
224225.
458.
On the Tobacco Worm etc.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
237238.
459.
Rotifera without Rotary Organs.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
243250.
460.
A new Infusorian belonging to the genus Pv.xicola.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
252253.
461Aciinosphjerium Eichhornii.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
260261.
462.
On Topaz and Biotite.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 p. 261.
463.
On ActinosphKrium etc.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
261262.
464.
On Tubularia etc.
from Atlantic City.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 p. 262.
465.
On Remains of Horses.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
290291.
466.
On an Extinct Peccary.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1882 pp.
301302.
467.
On the Reproduction and Parasites of Anodonta fluviatilis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1883 pp.
4446.
468.
Pediculus vetimenti.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1883 p46.
469.
A Flint Nodule from the Green Sand of New Jersey.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1883 p. 76.
470.
A .Social Heliozoan.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1883 pp.
9596.
471.
Mineralogical Notes.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1883. p. 202.
472.
Manayunkia speciosa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1883 pp.
204212.
473.
On Manayunkia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nac.
Sci.
Phila.
1883 p. 3U3.
474.
A study of the Temporal Bone.
Science I 1883 pp.
380385 475477 5067.
473.
Crystals in the Bark of Trees.
Science II 1883 pp.
7078.
476.
Urnatella gracilis a freshwater Polyzoan.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
IX 1884 pp.
.516.
477.
Ant infected with a Fungus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
.Sci.
Phila.
1884 p. 9.
478.
Cassiterite from Black Hills Dakota.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1884 p. 9.
479.
The New Jersey Coast after the storm of Ian.
8 1884.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1884 pp.
121348l.
Fossil Bones from Louisiana.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1884 p. 22.
481.
Foraminifera in the Drift of Minnesota.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.
Phila.
1884. pp.
2223.
482.
Diploma and Filariae.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1884 pp.
4748.
483.
Dictyophora as Apsilus vorax.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Ptiila.
1884 pp.
5051.
484.
On Eumeces chalcides.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1884 p. 66.
485.
Vertebrate Fossils from Florida.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1884 pp.
118119.
486.
A Rare Human Tape Worm.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1884 p. 137.
487.
Pentastomum proboscideum.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1884 p. 140.
488.
Organi.sms in Ice.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1884 p. 260.
489.
On some Parasitic Worms of Birds.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1885 pp.
911.
490.
Rhinoceros and Hippotherium from Florida.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1885 pp.
3233.
491.
Remarks on Mylodon.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1885 pp.
4951.
492.
Bothriocephalus in a Trout.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1885 pp.
122123.
493.
Worms in Ice.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1885 pp.
4U8409.
494.
An address on evolution and the pathological importance of lower forms of life.
Therapeutic Gazette Detroit 1886.
495Mastodon and Llama from Florida.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1886 pp.
1112.
496.
Extinct Boar from Florida.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1886 pp.
3738.
497.
Caries in the Mastodon.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1886 p. 38.
498.
On Amia and its probable Tnenia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1886 pp.
6263.
499.
Toxodon and other remains from Nicaragua. '
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1886275277.
500.
Notices on Nematoid Worms.
Proc.
.cad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1886 pp.
308313.
501.
Remarks on Parasites and Scorpions.
Trans.
Col. Phys.
Phila.
3rd.
Ser.
VIII 1886 pp.
441443.
502.
Notice of some Parasitic Worms.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1887 pp.
2024.
503.
Parasite of a Bat.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1887 p. 38.
504.
Aspianchna Ebbesbornii.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1887 p. 157.
505.
Foisil Bones from Florida.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1887 pp.
309310.
506.
Remarks on Hydra.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1887 pp.
310313.
507.
Botlarvse in the Terrapin.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1887 pp.
393394.
508.
Tapeworms in Birds.
Journ.
Comp.
Med.
and Surg.
VIII 1887 pp.
111. d 509.
On a Fossil of the Puma.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1883 pp.
910.
510.
ChKtopterus from Florida.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 7374.
511.
Criolana feasting on the Edible Crab.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 p. 80.
612.
On Bopyrus palemoneticola.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 p. 80.
513.
Note on Lepas fascicularis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 pp.
8081.
514.
Reputed TapeWorm in a Cucumber.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 p. 81.
515.
Habit of Cirolana concharum.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 pp.
1241 i5.
516.
Parasites of the Striped Bass.
P.oc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 p. 125.
617.
Tremotodes of the Muskrat.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 p. 126.
618.
Entozoa of the Terrapin.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 pp.
127128.
619.
A Crustacean Parasite of the Red Snapper.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 pp.
138139.
520.
Distinctive characters of Odontaspis littoralis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 pp.
163164.
521.
Parasitic Crustacea.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 p. 165.
522.
Parasites of the Rock Fish.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 pp.
166167.
523.
Louse of the Pelican.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 pp.
167168. '
524.
Parasites of the Pickerel.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 p. 169.
525.
Megalonyx Jeffersonii.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 p. 273.
626.
Anomalies of the Human Skull.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 p. 273.
527.
Remarks on the Fauna of Beach Haven N. J. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 pp.
329333.
528.
Food of Barnacles.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888. pp.
431432.
529.
Parasites of the Shad and Herring journ.
Comp.
Med.
and Surg.
IX 1888 pp.
211215.
530.
On several Gregarines and a .singular mode of conjugation of one of them.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1889 pp.
911.
531.
The SabreToothed Tiger of Florida.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1889 pp.
2931.
532.
Note on Gonyleptes and Solpuga.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1889 p. 45.
533.
The Boring Sponge Cliona.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
18897075.
534.
A Parasitic Copepod.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1889 p. 95.
535.
Fossil Vertebrates from Florida.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1889 pp.
9697.
536.
Notice of some fossil human bones.
Trans.
Wagner Free Inst.
Sci.
II 1889 pp.
912.
537.
Description of Mammalian remains from a rockcrevice Florida.
Trans.
Wagner Free Inst.
Sci.
II 1889 pp.
1317.
538.
Description of Vertebrate remains from Peace Creek Florida.
Trans.
Wagner Free Inst.
Sci.
II.
1889 pp.
1931.
539.
Notice of some Mammalian remains from the Salt Mine of Petite Anse Louisiana.
Trans.
Wagner Free Inst.
Sci.
II 1889 pp.
3340.
540.
On Platygonus an extinct genus allied to the Peccaries.
Trans.
Wagner Free Inst.
Sci.
II 1889 pp.
4150.
541.
Remarks on the nature of organic species.
Trans.
Wagner Free.
Inst.
Sci.
II 1889 pp.
5153.
542.
Hypoderasin the Little Blue Heron.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1890. p. 63.
543.
Notice of an Ichneumon Fly.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1890 p. 63.
644.
Fossil Vertebrates from Florida.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1890 pp.
6465.
545.
Hippotherium and Rhinoceros from Florida.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
189J pp.
ISISS. 546.
Mastodon and Capybara of South Carolina.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1890 pp.
184185.
547.
Remarks on Tics.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1830 pp.
278280.
548.
Parasites of Mola rotunda.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1890 pp.
281282.
549.
Beroe on the New Jersey Coast.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1890 pp.
341342.
550.
Remarks on Velella.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1890 pp.
40.S4O9.
551.
Notices of Entozoa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1890 pp.
410418.
552.
Note on the Boring Soonge of the Oyster.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1891 p. 122.
553.
Notice ofsome Entozoa.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1891 234r236.
NEW AMERICAN MYXOMYCETES.
GEO.
A. PvEX M. D. Pliysarum nucleatum.
Sporangia exactly spherical about '5 mm.
in diameter stipitate erect or slightly nodding  wall of sporangium membranaceous rupturing irregularly generally thickly studded with rounded white lime granules.
Stipes from 1 to 15 mm.
in height subulate yellowishwhite longitudinally rugose.
Columella wanting  capillitium composed of a very closely meshed net of delicate snowwhite tubules with minute round or rounded white granules of lime at the intersections.
In the center of the capillitium net there is usually a conspicuous mass of lime generally forming a shining white ball not continuous with the stipe although sometimes having a prolongation downward toward it this ball being rarely supplanted by a closely compacted mass of irregular lime granules holding the same relative position.
Spores 67 p.. in diam. brown violet in color  epispores delicately spinulose although apparently smooth when examined under medium power lenses.
Fairmount Park Philadelphia.
This species most nearly resembles in appearance and habit of growth Fhys.
Petersii B.
 C. var.
Farlowi Rost. but may be distinguished from it by the absence of a columella by the central ball of lime and the very small rounded lime granules in the meshes of the capillitium.
Exceptionally the lime granules of the sporangium wall are sparse or absent entirely in which case the wall has a silvery or coppery metallic lustre.
Physarum penetrate.
Sporangia erect stipitate generally ellipsoidal or pyriform rarely globose from 'o X '5 mm.
to o X '7 mm.
in diameter.
Sporangium walls membranaceous semitransparent studded sparsely with rounded pale yellow or yellowgray lime granules rupturing to the base into from two to four segments.
Stipes very variable from 'b to 2 mm.
in height slender subulate longitudinally rugose flattened laterally toward the base translucent dull red or golden red in color.
Columella formed by a continuation of the stipe penetrating the sporangium to about fourfifths its height reddishyellow in color slender tapering to a wedgeshaped end.
Capillitium composed of a closely and irregularly meshed reticulation of delicate white tubules with a variable number of obtuse angled or irregularly rounded pale yellow granules of lime at the intersections.
Spores 665 .. in diameter brown in mass delicately spinulose although apparently smooth under lenses of medium power.
Fairmount Park Phila. Adirondack Mts. N. Y. White Mts. N. H. Rangeley Maine and Ohio A. P. Morgan.
The leading characteristic of this species is its columella which is longer than that of any described Physuruni.
It is a true columella and not a mere aggregation or columellalike mass of lime granules such as may be found in many species of Physarum.
Chondrioderma aculeatum.
Sporangia sessile lenticular or hemispherical flattened above and concave sometimes umbilicate below.
Walls of sporangia double separated by a well marked interspace  external wall dusky or yellowishwhite papyraceous wrinkled when dry ultimately cracking and rupturing irregularly  internal wall thin membranaceous semitransparent grayish rarely iridescent.
Columella irregular sometimes small and hardly evident  upper surface rugose with ridges or thickenings the edges of which bristle with well marked spinelike processes.
Columella and inner surface of base of sporangium uniformly nut brown in color.
Capillitium pure white scanty composed of simple sparsely branched sinuous threads attached to the spines of the columella in a slightly fasciculate manner and radiating thence to the inner wall of the sporangium.
Spores dark violet 1213 .in diameter spinulose under medium powers.
Bar Harbor Me  Adirondack Mts. N. Y.
This species is a true Didenna analogous to C. difforme and C. testaeeum but is sufficiently distinguished by its tough parchmentlike external wall and its spinose columella.
Stemonitis Webberi.
Sporangia gregarious standing on a common hypothallus erect stipitate more or less cylindrical obtuse sometimes slightly clavate sometimes recurved at the apex 1012 mm.
in height including stipes.
Stipes black shining about 2 mm.
high.
Columella central runing nearly to the apex where it subdivides into several branches.
J Capillitiuiu composed of widely separated radial threads of a brown violet color originating by triangular plasmodic expansions at the point of attachment to the columella connecting with each other by lateral branches given off close to the columella often forming a second series of expansions at the junctions then running to the surface where they branch and form a delicate surface network of a pale brown color with large irregularly oblong meshes varying from 40 to 160 .
in length.
Terminal and recurved portion of surface network frequently composed of thickened threads which unite with the terminal branches of the columella forming an irregular plexus.
Spores 78 p.. in diameter ferruginous color in mass with thick delicately spinulose epispores which are apparently smooth under lenses of medium power.
Manhattan Kansas H. J. AVebber.
This is a well marked species with distinctive characters.
The meshes of the surface network are larger than those of any species yet described.
It is still further distinguished from Stemonitis splendens Rost.
or any allied species by its ferruginous colored spores and pale delicate surface capillitium.
Stemonitis Virginiensis.
Sporangia erect stipitate gregarious growing on a common hypothallus usually found in small isolated clusters occasionally however in continuous masses from 33'5 mm.
in height including stipes about '5 mm.
in width cylindrical or elongated ovate rounded at apex or terminating in a short blunt point and often umbilicate at the base.
Stipes averaging 13 mm.
in length black and shining.
Columella central running to the apex where it joins the capillitium by several terminal branches.
Capillitium composed of an intricate network of numerous slender dark brown flexuous threads orginating in the columella and joined together by numerous arcuate lateral branches terminating in a surface net parallel to the walls of the sporangium  meshes of the surface net irregular in shape 612 p.. in diameter often evanescent in the upper part of the sporangium breaking away by the dispersion of the spores.
Spores umber brown in mass 5'5 to 'o j.. in diameter epispores conspicuously reticulated with about 1012 reticulations to the hemisphere.
Allegheny Mts. Virginia.
This species resembles in its general appearance Coniatricha typhina Roth.
The threads composing the meshes of the surface net often have dark bulbous thickenings of about twice their usual diameter occurring irregularly in their course or at their intersections.
The spores are beautifully and clearly sculptured with deep reticulations which can be determined readily with a lens of medium power.
The species may be distinguished from S'.
dictyospora by its more strongly marked spore the smaller size of its sporangia and its comatrichalike habit of growth.
Stemonitis nigrescens.
Sporangia gregarious standing on a common hypothallus erect more or less cylindrical entire height with stipe about 4 mm.
Stipes '5 mm.
long black.
Columella central running to apex of sporangium then subdividing into several branches.
Capillitium violet black in the center arcuate flexuous forming a loose meshed central reticulation which becomes dark violet as it nearsthe surface.
Surface network complete and characteristic of the genus only on the lower third of the sporangium being usually irregular in the middle portion and evanescent or falling away with the spores toward the apex.
When perfect the meshes of the surface net vary from 1220 p.. in diameter.
Spores 8 .. in diameter nearly black in mass deep blackish violet singly under a microscope.
Epispores thick sharply and prominently spinulose with a quite moderate amplification.
Fairmount Park Philadelphia.
This species is noteworthy for its comparatively short stipes its very spinulose spores and its black or nearly black color the slight violet tint being only apparent on close inspection especially in fresh moist specimens.
It is a species which illustrates the difficulty of determination in a case wh.ere the diagnostic characters of two adjoining genera apparently blend together.
Although characters of both Stemonitis and Coniatricha are to be found in it yet those of the former genus seem to predominate and the species is therefore so referred.
Such borderland species as this and Coinatricha subccespitosa Pk. seem to point to the necessity for a revision of the boundary lines between the two genera which in these examples are practically narrowed down to the question of the degree of the parallelism of the surface net to the walls of the sporangium.
Comatricha irregularis.
Sporangia gregariou.s standing on a common hypothallus semierect drooping total height with stipes 35 to 7 mm.
usually about 4 mm. very irregular and variable in outline and size either irregularly cylindrical distorted by one or more nodulose swellings or irregularly elongated conical or ovate or cylindrical and flattened laterally with longitudinal grooves on the flattened sides or occasionally regularly cylindrical.
Stipes black slender usually equalling the length of the sporangia but varying from onehalf to twice their length.
Columella central slender flexuous running to the apex where it branches and joins the eapillitium.
Capillitium composed of arcuate threads which radiate from the columella and are joined together forming a central irregular reticulation of large coarse loops or meshes at first brown then becoming paler and more slender as they approach the surface finally forming an irregular exterior reticulation of delicate pure white or colorless threads which terminate on the surface everywhere in free ends.
Peripheral capillitium very evanescent.
Spores dark brown in mass from 78 .
in diameter.
Epispores thick warted with dark rounded warts.
Fairmount Park Philadelphia  Xew Jersey Ellis  Ohio Morgan.
Although this species has the general habit of growth of Stemonitis I have not been able in any of the specimens which I have examined to detect even a fragment of the characteristic surface network of that genus.
The peripheral branches of the capillitium are pure white giving under a reflector a frosted or hoary appearance strongly contrasting with the darker threads beneath.
They are exceedingly delicate breaking away easily with the spores which seem to have more tendency to agglutination than those of other species.
Cribraria violacea.
Sporangia stipitate erect or slightly nodding total height with stipe 5 mm.
to 1 mm. dark violet with a metallic sheen ellipsoidal or ovoid rarely globose.
Stipes '3 to '5 mm.
high slender subulate longitudinally rugose dark blackishviolet becoming black at the base.
Sporangium wall formed of a pale violet membrane thickly studded with dark violet plasraodic granules externally Avrinkled entire for 26 twothirds or more of its basal portion forruing a permanent receptacle the upper third being in effect lacerated into irregularly shaped fragments which are joined by a few simple threads forming a sparse irregular network.
Exceptionally the apical portion is nearly entire being simply perforated with three or four oval or rounded openings.
Spores 8 .
in diameter dark violetred color in mass but pale red under the microscope epispores thick delicately but clearly warted though apparently smooth under medium powers.
Fairmount Park Philadelphia Adirondack Mts. N. Y. and Manhattan Kansas W. T. Swingle.
This species originates fi'om a deep violetblack plasraodium.
As usually found it is diminutive rivalling Cribraria mieroscopica B.
 C. Its marked characters are its color its proportionally large receptacle and its large delicately spinulose spores which are not exceeded or probably equalled in size by those of any recorded Cribraria.
Cribraria languescens.
Sporangia scattered drooping spherical 25 to 35 mm.
in diameter.
Receptacle about onethird of the periphery of the sporangium redbrown shining minutely striate with granular lines serrated more or less regularly about the margin.
Network redbrown composed of simple threads with polygonal knots having usually five or six angles and straight or only slightly concave sides forming more or less triangular interspaces at the intersections.
Stipes about 25 to 3 mm.
high slender subulate dark redbrown  somewhat sinuous or wavy longitudinally rugose.
Spores when recent dull red in mass becoming paler in time averaging 6 .
in diameter.
Shawangunk and Adirondack Mts. N. Y.
The excessive variability which characterizes the genus Cribraria is especially shown by the group of species having networks with angular knots at the intersections.
The type species of Schrader have served their purpose so well for nearly a century that all later monographers have continued them without question and with few additions to their numbers.
There is however in American specimens at least a steady and well marked intergradation between these central types evolving an infinite number of variations which serve to confuse and perplex the student.
There are also man' intermediate types some of which are quite as constant and possess quite as marked an individuality as the Schraderian types which cannot legitimately be referred to them even as varieties.
The species just described may be cited as an example.
I have found specimens of it several years apart growing in widely different habitats and yet the specific characters are constant in all cases.
In its scattered and solitary growth its tall slender stipes and relaxed habit it resembles C. microcarpa in its network it approaches C. tenella and its spores have the color of the paler forms of C. purpurea.
With all of these resemblances however it has a marked individuality.
Trichia Andersoni.
Sporangia sessile closely aggregated in clusters globose flattened sometimes a little elongated usually '45 mm.
in diameter.
Walls of sporangia sometimes roughened or corrugated showing under the lens fine lines or striae radiating from local centers.
Color of the unbroken sporangia dark olivaceous.
Capillitium composed of cylindrical elatei's of a deep orange yellow color 3'7o i.
in diameter provided with four spirals winding evenly and closely without or with very narrow interspaces.
Ends of elaters tapering 18 . long the outer half being smooth or free from spirals.
Spores greenishyellow or olivaceous 1112 .
in diameter delicately spinulose but apparently smooth under medium power lenses.
Sand Coulee Montana F. W. Anderson.
This Trichia presents a strong conti'ast between its olivaceous spores and its deep orange capillitium.
It differs from the Trichia chrysospenna group of sessile aggregate Trichias in the absence of interspiral or longitudinal filaments.
Hemiarcyria obscura.
Sporangia sessile scattered globose or elongated globose slightly curved dusky or brownishred in color inconspicuous 4 to 1 mm.
in length by about 4 mm.
in width.
Capillitium of a dull brick red color composed of a sparingly branched loose meshed network with few or no free ends.
Tubes of capillitium slender uniform without expansions 2'5 mm.
in diameter provided with seven or eight spirals winding evenly with narrow interspaces faint and inconspicuous under medium power lenses.
Spores 1010.5 p.. delicately Avarted and of a pale lemonyellow color.
Sand Coulee Montana F. W. Anderson.
The noteworthy features in this Hemiarcyria are the slender and faintly marked capillitium and the strong contrast in color as in the preceding species between the spores and capillitium.
Hemiarcyria longifila.
Sporangia simple stipitate erect goldenyellow in color globoseturbiuate or pyriform rupturing irregularly at the top leaving a short funnelshaped receptacle.
Sporangium wall thin translucent shining.
Height of sporangium including stipe averaging 1'3 mm.
Stipes dark redbrown longitudinally rugose.
Capillitium composed usually of single long threads not branched or very sparingly branched.
These threads are doubled in their course into a succession of loops which are usually twisted upon themselves the whole expanding upon the rupture of the sporangium Avail into an elongated tangled mass.
Tubes of capillitium 3'54 .
in diameter provided usually Avith four spirals sparsely spinulose Avith shortsharpspiuesAvindinge'enly and regularly and separated by Avide interspaces two or three times their Avidth  adjoining spirals connected by conspicuous longitudinal filaments.
Capillitium and spores concolorous being orangeyelloAV in mass.
Spores delicately Avarted 910 'j.. in diameter.
Fairmount Park Philadelphia.
Externally this species resembles Hemiarcyria clavata Pers.
and has probably often been mistaken for it.
The capillitium hoAveA'er in its structural details and habit of growth is Avidely different.
The partial untAvisting of the loops of the capillitium by drying after the rupture of the sporangium causes it to be projected and elongated sometimes tAvo or three times the length of the sporangium.
In this particular it resembles Heviiarcyria rubiformis but the mass of capillitium is not nearly so dense.
Hemiarcyria Varneyi.
Sporangia stipitate erect elongated ovate about 1 mm.
high including stipes.
Sporangium wall evanescent above breaking away at maturity leaving a shallow cuplike receptacle at the base.
Stipes short '2 mm.
or less in height dull brown.
Capillitium dull ochre attached to the center of the receptacle elongated forming a closely meshed reticulation liaviug numerous short slightly clavate free ends which proceed from the peripheral meshes.
Tubes of capillitium 3'23'o .
wide provided with seven or eight spirals winding unevenly with interspaces averaging the width of a spiral.
The free ends and the external loops of the capillitium from which they proceed spiniilose with short blunt spines attached to the spirals.
Spores 625 p.. in diameter pale smooth.
Kansas Miss May Varney com.
W. T. Swingle.
This species must be referred to the comprehensive genus Hemiarcyria by reason of the spiral structure of its capillitium  in all other respects it resembles the genus Arcyria and would unhesitatingly be referred to it without a microscopic examination of the threads.
The habit of growth of the sporangium wnth its evanescent upper wall and permanent saucerlike base the close mesh of the capillitium net and the small smooth thin walled spores are all characteristic of the genus Arcyria.
Together with the neighboring American species Hemiarcyria stipata Swz.
which has an analogous structure it properly forms a separate subsection of the genus.
DIANEMA Nov. Gen. Sporangia simple or plasmodiocarpous with membranaceous noncalcareous walls.
Capillitium composed of threads without characteristic thickenings running entirely across the sporangium attached both to the base and to the opposite wall and not joined together to form a network.
Dianema Harveyi.
Sporangia sessile generally rounded or cushionshaped flattened above averaging about 1 mm.
in diameter 35 ram.
in height sometimes elongated and bent into an 'irregular horseshoeshape color gold bronze with a metallic lustre.
Sporangium walls membranaceous thin translucent containing no trace of lime rupturing irregularly.
Capillitium and spores concolorous being brownishyellow in mass.
Capillitium composed of numerous slender threads from 1'5 to 2 .
in diameter not connected with each other simple without free branches but often forked two or three times near their origin or insertion nearly parallel taut running from base to the top of the sporangium.
Spores 8 .
in diameter pale yellow under a microscope delicately spinulose but apparently smooth under medijjm power lenses.
Orono Maine F. L. Harvey.
This is in some respects an anomalous genus which it is difficult to classify satisfactorily.
In the structural relation of the capillitium to the sporangium walls it is analogous to the sessile species of the Didymiacese but it lacks the violaceous colored spores and the calcareous external walls characteristic of that family.
It is most nearly allied to the Perichsenacese by reason of the color of its spores and its simple unmarked capillitium but cannot correctly be classified with that family at least in the classification of recent monographers without some modification of their definition of the family limitations.
At present it stands as a single representative of a new and separate family adjoining the Perichjenaceae in the order Calonemese Rost.
It has been deemed advisable in the present paper to specify approximately the amplification used in the foregoing descriptions of the sculpturing of the spores and capillitium of the species represented in order to pi'event errors in determination.
By medium power lenses therefore such lenses are meant as the onequarter or onefifth inch objectives in common use which will give an amplification with a one inch ocular of from 400 to 500 diameters.
1891.
natural sciences of philadelphia 399 July 7.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twentyfive persons present.
The death of Richard M. Schomburg a correspondent March 24 1891 was announced.
July 14.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twentytwo persons present.
July 21.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
A paper entitled  The Summer Birds of Harvey's Lake Luzerne Co. Penna. with remarks on the Faunal Position of the Region by Witmer Stone was presented for publication.
July 28.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
John L. Kinsey and Charles W. Dulles M. D. were elected members.
The following was ordered to be printed   DESCEIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF VAMPYROPS.
BY HARRISON ALLEN M. D. Vampyrops zarhinus.
sp.
nov. Horizoutal portion of noseleaf freeprojecting  upper lip crossed by a row of small warts.
Outer margin of the tragus scarcely serrate and bears a single tooth at the upper border of the welldefined notch.
The tip scarcely acuminate.
The auricle moderately elongate shorter thanjthe head external basal lobe rounded with a sharply inverted border anteriorly.
Fur dark brown above lighter shade of brown beneath.
The dorsal aspect of forearm covered with short hair.
Two lateral white head stripes are present.
A faint median napal white stripe is discernible which disappears between the shoulders and a trace only aoain seen for a short distance farther down.
Interfemoral membrane excised on a level with the distal third of the tibia.
Back of thioh and leg hairy a thin sparse growth seen on the dorsum of the interfemoral membrane.
The first phalanx of the third digit over onehalf the length of the second  the third phalanx twice the length of the second.
In other respects as in F. lineatiis.
The manal formula is as follows  1st interspace 3mm. 2nd interspace 17 mm. 3rd interspace 25 mm.
Difference between 2nd and Brd 8 mm.
Forearm 37 mm.
Skull 22 mm.
long  greatest breadth biauricular 10 j mm.
 least width at proencephalou 6 mm.
Mesopterygoid fossa narrow acuminate  pterygoid produced in a distinct spine  angular process of the mandible practically nil posterior border of the coronoid process concave.
1 I proposed the term manal formula for the widths of the spaces between the metacarpal bones at the distal ends when the wing is extended  as compared with the length of the forearm  in 1S90.
See Proc.
Amer.
Philosoph.
Soc.
xxvii Jan.
23rd.
This formula has been found by me to be of value in distinguishing species in a group in which many of the best characters are not found on the periphery.
It has been suggested to me that this term should be manual instead of manal.
I avoided the term manual since the significance uniformly attached to this adjective forbad in my judgment its employment in this new coDDection and that it was permissible to slightly modify the .spelimg of the word.
If however such a course be found inadmissible the word ' pteral  may be substituted.
Teeth.
The maxillary incisors much smaller than in T .
linenhis without notch on cutting edge converging but not touching  the interval between them equalling that between the rudimental lateral incisor and the canine.
First premolar not touching second premolar compressed from before backward.
Second premolar with well defined denticle on posterior border.
Canine with a narrow groove on posterior surface just outside axis of toothrow  first molar smaller than second  no disposition for basis of paracone and metacone to join protocone but the grinding surface is broad and simple  protocone and hypocone are rudimental scarcely raised above the gum.
The paracone sending caliciform lines about the base of the metacone limb and partially enclosing it.
The characters of the second molar quite as first.
The third molar in tooth row and about onefourth the size of the second molar  rudiments of protocone paracone and metacone being discernible.
The mandibular incisors with intervals between the teeth and between third tooth and canine.
The canine and premolar much as in V. lineatus  the posterior border of the paracone of the second premolar is distinguished by being crenulated.
The canine as high as the second premolar.
The molars are more rudimental than those of V. lineatus.
The last molar is not acuminate as in this species but is flat and relatively to the size of the second molar is much larger being indeed onethird the size of the second and relatively larger than in V. lineatus.
The molar teeth throughout with disposition to marginal cusps  the grinding surface being smooth and concave.
Measurements.
MM.
Head and body from crown of head to base of tail 434 Length of arm 21 Length of forearm 37 TJ. T   Lenoth of first metacarpal bone 3 First digit i r .1 fi .
1 1  .
Length oi first phalanx 5 o 1 T V f Length of second metacarpal bone 28 Second digit y ''.   oI Length or first phalanx o f Length of third metacarpal bone 37 ...
I Length of first phalanx 13 Ihird digit S T xi i J u 1 oi   Length oi second phalanx 21 L Length of third phalanx 10 orMM.
r Length of fourth metacarpal bone 35 Fourth digit  Length of first phalanx 11 C Length of second phalanx 13 r Length of fifth metacarpal bone 36 Fifth digit  Length of first phalanx 8  Length of second phalanx 11 Length of head 14 Height of ear 13 Height of tragus 5 Length of thigh 10 Length of tibia 13 Length of foot 10 One adult female gravid in alcohol.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Cambridge Mass.
Habitat Brazil.
Collected by Thayer expedition.
I am indebted to Prof. Alexander Agassiz for the opportunity of studying this form.
V. zarhlnus agrees with V. vittatus V. infuscns and V. lineatns in the possession of three molars in the upper jaw but is smaller than any of these species since the forearm is but 35 mm.
long and the distance from the front of the canine to the back of the second molar is but 7 mm.
It resembles V. iyifuscus in the indistinct dorsal stripe but is distinguished therefrom by the presence of well defined facial stripes.
In the rudimental angular process of the lower jaw and the long pointed mesopterygoid fossa V. zarhinus is readily distinguished from V. lineatus the only other species which I have examined.
In none of the species even including the aberrant V. carraciolae Thomas are the incisor teeth as wide apart as in V. zarhinus and in this respect it recalls the species of Chirodernia.
The rudimental condition of the angular process of the mandible if found to be a constant character in all the species of Vainpyrops will serve to distinguish this genus from its ally Chiroderma in which the process examined is of immense size quite as large indeed as in Brachyphylla.
Remarks on Vainpyrops lineatus.
The only other species of the genus with which I am familiar is V. lineatus.
In this form the noseleaf is not free and projecting at the horizontal portion  the auricle is more deeply emarginate than in V. zarhinus and is without the incurvation of the anterior part of the basal lobe.
The tragus is more distinctly crenulate and has a much smaller basal notch.
The notch in the interfemoral membrane is on a line with the proximal third of the femur.
The manal formula is widely different.
It is as follows 2nd interspace 5 mm. 3rd interspace 20 mm. 4th interspace 36 mm.
Difference between 3rd and 4th 16 mm.
Forearm 48 mm.
Skull.
The greatest length 25 mm.
 greatest width 10 mm.
 least width 6 i mm.
 distance from front of maxillary canine to posterior border of second molar 9 mm.
 angular process much larger than in V. zarhinus but smaller than in any other stenodermatous genus examined.
Mesopterygoid fossa broad rounded at anterior end  pterygoid not produced  posterior border of coronoid process not concave.
The following embrace the more important measurements of V. lineatus  MM.
Head and body from crown of head to base of tail 57 Length of forearm 48 f Length of first phalanx 18 Third digit j Length of second phalanx 23 C Length of third phalanx 15 Fourth digit j '1 1 ''' Pl'
f L Length or second phalanx lo nAu Ji.
 Length of first phalanx 19i Fifth digit i r     1 T 1 o .
Length of second phalanx 1 Length of head 27 Height of ear 17 Height of tragus.
Length of thigh 15 Length of tibia 17 Length of foot 10 Teeth of V. lineatus.
Incisor teeth with notch on cutting edge not touching each other or the canines  proportions much as in V. zarhinus but the centrals somewhat wider and larger.
First premolar compressed from before backward in contact with oblique posterior border of the canine  proportions as mV.
zarhinus.
Second premolar with broad denticle on posterior border.
Maxillary molars with markings about base of metacone more distinct than in V. zarhimis.
The palatal aspect of paracone fretted.
The first molar with large conical protoconid  paraconid rudimental not differentiated from  This list includes all the genera excepting Pygoderma Ametrida and Stenoderma.
the conspicuous lingual cingulum a sharply projected anterior basal lobe continuous with commissure overlapping the crown of the second premolar in part forms the anterior border of the tooth.
To the outer side of the lingual cingulum i. e. on the grinding face of crown are two nodules in position of raetaconid  hypoconid inconspicuous  entoconid conspicuous cusplike and joined by a high posterior coramissufe.
The second molar with opposed protoconid and jjaraconid followed by a deep posterior prolongation with a cresentlike posterior border which is accentuated on lingual side to form a cusp entoconid.
Remarks on Chiroderma.
Since Mr. Oldfield Thomas Am.
Mag.
ISTat.
Hist.
Vol.
IV 1889 has claimed that Chiroderma is not distinct from Vampyrops an examination of the dentition of C. Salvini was substituted with the following result The maxillary incisors with slender cylindroid centrals which are four times the length of the laterals end without notched free edges.
Canines as long as the combined length of the molars measured from buccal aspect and delicately fluted on the posterior surface.
First premolar about onefourth the size of the second and contiguous with canine.
An interval is defined between the premolars  the second premolar is with well developed basal cusps both anteriorly and posteriorly but is without denticle on the posterior border.
The first molar.
The thickened conjoined base of the sectorial paracone and metacone contiguous with the base of the protocone on the grinding surface of the tooth  no basal development in metacone such as is seen in Vampyrops  hypocone reduced to a depressed rudiment without cusp.
Protocone robust cuspidate twice the height of the same in Vampyrops.
The second molar.
The base of the paracone and metacone not conjoined or touching the base of the protocone  hypocone absent  first mandibular premolar rudimental flat scai'cely raised above the gum line touching canine but not second premolar.
The second premolar long prominent almost as high as the canine  a sharp ledgelike cingulum at base anteriorly.
Paraconid large trenchant and deeply fluted on anterior surface  hypoconid much lower than it but also trenchant.
The rest of the tooth broad low flat without raised border in region of the entoconid.
Last molar Avith protoconid larger than the paraconid.
A commissure extends from the protoconid to be continuous with the lingual cingulum.
Paraconid not developed from cingulum  hypoconid simple but well defined conoidal  entoconid well developed.
An unnamed nodule on posterior border of the tooth at the buccal side of the entoconid.
The molars throughout with cusps directly on the grinding surface i. e not confined to the margins.
The' cranium is in like manner distinct from Vampyrops in the great size of the angular process of the mandible.
In my judgment differences from Vampyrops of the kind denoted in the above description are sufficient to separate Chiroderma from other Sternodei'ms until the shapes of the molar teeth shall be shown to have less taxonomic value in this group than in others of the order.
The disposition to dorsal elongation of the anterior nasal aperture is a feature so unusual that it should have also weight in distinguishing Chiroderma even after acknowledging that the cleft disappears in old individuals.
406 proceedings of the academy of 1891.
August 4.
Mr. Chas.
Roberts in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
August 11.
Mr. Chas.
Morris in the chair.
Eleven persons present.
August 18.
Mr. Chas.
Morris in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
August 25.
Mr. Chas.
Morris in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
Mollusca from Nantucket Mass.
 Mr. H. A. Pilsbry exhibited four trays and one bottle of land and freshwater mollusks collected by Dr. Harrison Allen in Nantucket and stated that with the exception of Helix hortensis no land or freshwater shells had heretofore been reported from that island.
The species collected are as follows  Helix hortensis Zonites Hyalinia arboreus Liinncea columella var.
and a small species of the bivalve Pisidium.
The two latter are typically freshwater mollusks.
Helix hortensis has been lately regarded by some conchologists as a native American not an importation from Europe as all earlier students of our shells supposed.
There is much evidence in favor of this view.
Dr. W. H. Dall in conversation with the speaker has stated that the shells have been found in prehistoric shellheaps kitchenniiddings on the Maine coast at considerable depths.
The genitalia of specimens collected alive in Nantucket by Dr. Allen seem to agree very closely with the figures of German and English specimens given by Schmidt and Ashford.
They have the characteristic dartsack the mucus or multifid glands composed of four long ccecJB etc.
Zonites arboreus is not different from specimens of that sjjecies found over the greater part of North America.
The specimens referred to Limncea columella are very small slender excessively fragile and are beautifully decussated by spiral stria
and growthlines which cut the surface into little squares.
Whorls 8J length 82 width 42 mill.
 length of aperture 56 width 3 mm.
 color light brown.
It is probably a local race as I have seen none like them from the mainland.
The Pisidium is a small form which I have not identified specifically.
A specimen of Ancylus found by Dr. Allen was lost.
Geological Features of the Meteoric Iron Locality in Arizona.
 Dr. a. E. Foote described the remarkable geological features of the locality where he had found meteoric iron containing diamonds an unreported communication on which had been made by Prof. G. A. Koenig before the Academy at the meeting of June 23rd 1891.
Nearly all the small meteoric fragments were found at a point about ten miles southeast from Canon Diablo near the base of a nearly circular elevation which strikingly resembles an old crater and is known locally as  Crater Mountain.
He believed this to to be the same as Sunset Knoll figured on the topographical sheets of the U. S. Geological Survey.
It is 185 miles due north from Tucson and 300 miles west of Albuquerque.
The signet iron was discovered about 30 miles from Tucson.
This elevation according to the Survey rises 432 feet above the plain.
Its center is occupied by a cavity nearly threequarters of a mile in diameter the sides of which are so steep that animals which have descended into it have been unable to escape and have left their bleached bones at the bottom which seemed to be from fifty to one hundred feet below the surrounding plain.
The rocks Avhich form the rim of the socalled crater are sandstone and limestone and are uplifted on all sides at an almost uniform angle of from thirtyfive to forty degrees.
A careful search however failed to reveal any lava obsidian or other volcanic production.
Prof. Gilbert had suggested that this socalled  crater  was like the depressions on the surface of the moon produced by the impact of an enormous meteoric mass.
This view had been supported by other gentlemen one of whom said that the diamonds at Kimberly probably came from the decomposition of meteorites that had produced the depressions in which the precious stones are found.
Hemiarcyria clavata Pers.
 Dr. Geo.
H. Rex described the structure of the capillitium of Heiniarcyria clavata illustrating his remarks by a mounted slide under the microscope.
As most of the descriptions of the Mycetozoa have been drawn from examinations made with objectives of moderate powers many very interesting and unexpected results in the study of even familiar and well known species may be obtained by the use of homogeneous immersion or other higher power objectives.
As an example of one of the surprises of this kind the speaker instanced the common Hemiarcyria clavata Pers.
The monographers of the Mycetozoa have described the capillitiura of this species as being composed of a network of tubes haviug five smooth spiral thickenings wound evenly around them at intervals equal to about three times the width of the spirals.
The speaker had examined specimens from many American localities and found in every case that the spii'als were not smooth but were really fringed by a single row of upright cylindricclavate sometimes capitate processes of an exceedingly transparent plasmodic structure which followed the median line of the spirals and projected rigidly from it.
These processes equal in height the diameter of the spirals and are quite transparent but can be better seen by aniline staining.
They stand in rank closely together on some specimens being distinct and separate while on others they are so closely ranged that the bases seem almost to be joined together the clavate or capitate ends however being distinct.
The speaker had examined only American specimens and therefore was not prepared to state that this peculiarity of structure was universal.
This condition is distinct from that existing in Hemiarcyria leioecarpa Cke. a closely allied species in which the few scattered spines on the spirals are very different in size and character.
September 1.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident iu the chair.
Twentytwo persons present.
Leidy Memorial Meeting.
Through an oversight a serious omission occurs in the record of the meeting held May 12 on the occasion of the death of Dr. Joseph Leidy late President of the Academy.
The first paper read was by Dr. William Hunt who wrote of the personal history and character of the deceased President.
The absence of Dr. Hunt's name from the list of those who read papers on the occasion is the more to be regretted as his contribution was prepared with loving appreciation and knowledge of his lifelong friend.
September 8.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Seventyfive persons present.
North Greenland Expedition.
Preliminary reports were read from Messrs Peary Sharp and Heilprin of the operations of the Expedition fitted out under the auspices of the Academy for the exploration of Greenland which sailed from Biooklyn June 6th at 5 P. M. Detailed accounts of the scientific observations made during the voyage will be published in the Proceedings of alater date.
September 15.
Rev.
H. C. McCooK D. D. VicePresident in the chair.
Three hundred and ninetyeight persons present.
The Ornithological Section reported its organization with the following officers  Director Spencer F. Trotter M. D. ViceDirector George S. Morris.
Recorder Samuel N. Rhoads.
Treasurer Isaac C. Martin dale.
27 Secretary Charles E. Ridenour.
Conservator Witmer Stone.
The third Monday of each month was selected as the time of meeting.
Prof. Heilprin made the first of a series of communications on tbe physiography of Greenland which was followed by an exhibition by means of lantern and screen of photographs taken during the expedition by Dr. Benjamin Sharp.
September 22.
Kev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. VicePresident in the chair.
One hundred and eightythree persons present.
September 29.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Seventythree persons present.
The death of Dr. John G. Lee a member September 9 was announced.
Messrs Angelo Heilprin J. P. Lesley Persifor Frazer Wm.
B. Scott and Benjamin Smith Lyman were appointed as the Committee on the Hay den Memorial Geological Award.
Dr. Wm.
E. Hughes and Dr. John MacFarlane were elected members.
The following were ordered to be printed  
