PRELIMINARY NOTICE OF SOME MINERALS FROM THE SERPENTINE BELT NEAR EASTON PENNSYLVANIA.
BY JOHN EYERMAN.
The serpentine belt and contact rocks have already supplied no less than twentyone mineral species and varieties many of Avhich occur very sparingly and are represented perhaps by a half dozen specimens of each.
This belt appears in Warren County N. J. and crossing the Delaware River about onequarter of a mile north of Easton extends southwesterly a distance of three miles thinning out at both ends.
The southern contact of the belt is a grayishblue limestone of uncertain age no determination having been attempted on account of the absence of fossils  it seems probable however that it belongs either to the Chazy or Calciferoiis.
The north contact of the belt is formed by a ridge of syenite and gneiss this ridge forming the Weygatt INIt. which nowhere along the entire extent of three miles attains a greater base width than 2500 to 3000 feet.
North of this ridge is seen the same limestone which forms the southern contact of the serpentine belt.
The following minerals Avere all found in very limited quantities so that an extended account must be reserved for some future time only qualitative determinations being made on account of this lack of sufficient material.
Hydromagnesite  This occurs as a beautiful snowwhite incrustation on the talcserpentine rocks near the supposed south contact.
Graphite In small flakes it is found disseminated through the taleserpentine rocks at several localities along the belt.
It is also found on quartz at Marble Hill N. J. one mile north of Phillipsburg.
Topaz  A few small prisms of this mineral have been found near the north contact along the Delaware River.
Color dirty creamyellow almost transparent.
Chalcopyrite  A small sphenoid of this mineral was observed associated with malachite imbedded in the calciferous talc.
Pyrite  Cubic forms of this sulphide of iron are quite abundantly disseminated throughout the talcserpentine at many places along the belt.
PsEUDOMORPHS  Some interesting forms of linionite and turgite pseudomorphous after cubic pyrite have been found associated with the pyrite.
A pecuhar bronze colored mineral also apparently after pyrite was observed but unfortunately not in sufficient quantity for determination.
Calcite  Some beautiful specimens of the variety Iceland spar Avere obtained at Sherrer's old quarry on the Delaware River road.
This locality has also furnished some silkywhite specimens of aragonite.
Muscovite This mica has been found in considerable quantities at two localities both in the Archaean one near Low's Hollow N. J. six miles northeast of Easton and on the Lehigh Mt one mile from Bethlehem Pa. Orthoclase This feldsjar has been found at three localities in the Archaean a near Low's Hollow N. J. 6 on the Weygatt Mt.
north of Easton c near Redington six miles from Easton associated with allanite and tourmaline.
December 1.
Eev.
H. C. McCooK VicePresident in the chair.
Fortyseven persons present.
A paper entitled  Echinoderms and Crustaceans collected by the West Greenland Exp.edition by J. E. Ives was presented for publication.
December 8.
Mr. Thomas Meehax VicePresident in the chair.
Fiftytwo persons present.
A paper entitled  On some ncAV Unionidpe'' by H. A. Pilsbry was presented for publication.
The death of Dom Pedro de Alcantara Emperor of Brazil a correspondent the 6th inst. was announced.
Change of Name of a Genus of Bats.
 Dr. Harrison Allen proposed that the name Vespenis should be restricted to the Lepidoptera and that the genus of bats that has heretofore been known by this name be in future designated as the genus Adelonyderis.
December 15.
Dr. Charles Schaeffer in the chair.
Twentyseven persons present.
December 22.
Dr. Geo.
H. Horn in the chair.
Twentyeight persons present.
A paper entitled  Contributions to the LifeHistories of Plants No.
VII by Thomas Meehan was presented for publication.
The death of Henry C. Gibson a member the 20th inst. was announced.
December 29.
Key.
H. C. McCook D. D. VicePresident in the chair.
The following were ordered to be printed   A NEW GENUS OF VESPERTILIONID.
BY HARRISON ALLEN M. D. Through the courtesy of Dr. J.
A. Alleu I have recently had an opportunity of examining the type of Histiotus maculatus which was described by him in the BulK Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist.
Ill No.
2 p. 195 Feb. 20th 1891.
Dr. Allen believed that this striking form belonged to Histiotus on the ground that the shape of the ears and of the muzzle as well as the disposition of the membranes were of the same general type while the teeth were the same in number.
In my opinion these statements require modification.
A minute first upper premolar is to be seen in the rather large space between the canine and the second premolar thus separating Dr. Allen's species from Histiotus in which a single upper premolar is present.
Together with this peculiarity I find that the general characters of the skull the teeth and the wing membrane are like those of Coryuorhiuus.
Indeed it may be said to be a Plecotian genus without muzzle processes and since with these peculiarities the new form possesses but two premolars in the lower jaw it is quite distinct.
I therefore propose to describe it as follows  EUDERMA nov. gen.
Ears threefourths length of the forearm broad at tip united by a small membrane.
Internal basal lobe well defined.
Internal basal ridge extends nearly the entire length of the auricle.
External border simple entire without scallops.
The external basal lobe well defined simple not recurved hairy on outer surface.
Auricle greatly constricted opposite base of tragus to which it is attached  no external basal ridge.
Tragus elongate but scarcely narrowed at tip little more than onethird the length of the auricle straight or slightly convex on inner border moderately convex on outer border basal notch shallow indeterminate no basal lobe.
Muzzle simple depressed in middle  glajids on the side rudimental not club shaped  nostril entire oval without cornii.
i Dr. Allen informs me that he had no opportunity of comparing this species with Corynorkimts 3nA naturally infened that it was in alliance with the wellknown big eared bat from South America.
The auricle is marked with numerous transverse strise at outer twothirds excluding the tip.
The inner border and tip fringed with short hair a sparse growth occupies the inner surface of the auricle from the inner border of the internal basal ridge.
Membranes.
The thumb disposed to be flexed the membrane extending to the base of the first phalanx.
A distinct hem extends between the thumb and second digit.
The second digital interspace 3 mm.
wide.
Metacarpal bones distinct on palmar aspect.
Palmar folds at fifth metacarpal two in number.
The terminal cartilage of the fourth digit axial.
Foot oneseventh jf the length of the forearm.
Tail as long as the forearm tip exsert.
The markings on the membranes are as follows.
In the fourth interspace the predigital nerve arises midway along the fifth metacarpal and the post digital from the distal fourth of the fourth metacarpal bone.
Oblique tibial lines four in number.
The interfemoral membrane entire ample marked by ten welldefined complete transverse lines.
Intercostals twelve in number ranging obliquely outward and upward.
Fur.
The admirable description by Dr. Allen may be supplemented as follows  Black and white hues arranged in a manner unique in Cheiroptera.
Dorsum with fur of a prevailing black  the hair being uniformly long and unicolored excepting at the base of the ears over the shoulder blades and at the rump where the hair is white.
The clumps on the ear are unicolored  those on the shoulder blades have hair with basal half black  that on the rump is intermingled with black but otherwise the hair is as on the shoulder blades.
The nape of the neck crown and base of the ears where they join the crown of a more rusty black than that of the dorsum generally.
This arrangement is limited by the low band which unites the ears the face is sparsely covered with blackish hairs the lips at the sides are whiskered  the spaces about the eyes are naked.
The under surface of the body with white as its prevailing color the basal portion of the fur everywhere being black excepting where the large ear extends down on the side of the neck.
In this region viz.
the upper half of the neck the hair is pure white and unicolored and continuous above with the basal ear clumps.
The lower half of the side of neck is black throughout.
A faint white line extends across the shoulder to unite the clumps on the shoulder blades to that of the ventre.
The fur otherwise black at basal twothirds apical third white.
The arm at its basal third.
black.
The extent of the white portion diminishes from above downward.
Membranes everywhere naked.
Skull.
Braincase low quadrate the height onehalf the biniastoid diameter.
The metencephalon as long as mesencephalon and proencephalon.
Sagittal crest rudimentary does not extend beyond a line answering to the middle of the zygoma  the remaining portions of the posterior temporal crest w'idely separated  the anterior not defined.
Dorsum of facevertex with a shallow concavity which is not sharply defined oi'bit with iiiHated inner wall and rugose elevated upper border  lachrymal tubercle marked.
Infraorbital canal short  the foramen on line with interval between second premolar and first molar.
Line of the upper margin of the anterior nasal aperture if produced would intersect the second premolar tympanic bone apparently incomplete above.
Theparoccipital process bold trenchant stern omastoid impressim deeply concave  mastoid composed entirely of the squamosal element.
Zygoma quite as in Corynorhiims  the squamosal part twice as wide as maxillary sphenopalatine foramen present of large size.
Occipital crest trenchant.
Tympanic bone greatly inflated equals onethird the length of the skull not touching basioccipital or basisphenoid  excavate anteriorly.
It extends to a line which answers to the middle of the glenoid cavity.
The mesopterygoid fossa as long as onethird the distance from the posterior palatal border to the incisors.
The sphenoidal foramen is at the bottom of a deep recess.
The coroncjid process is round small raised scarcely onethird the height of the ascending ramus  lower border of the horizontal ramus near the angle slightly concave.
The angle is raised from the plane on which the mandible rests.
Atlas with large foramen for vertebral artery which rests on a mere thread of bone  transverse process semicircular without spine.
In common with other cervical vertebrae the tubercle on anterior surface of body is marked.
Ribs twelve in number.
Both presternum and mesosternum keeled.
Scapula much as in Corynorhinus.
It was mutilated in the siugle specimen examined.
Upper teeth.
Incisors contiguous slightly inclined toward the median line but the lateral tooth separated from the canine by a moderate interval.
Central incisor cuspidate with a small cuspule projected midway on the posterior surfce  a distinct cuspule also arises from the cingulum posteriorly.
Lateral incisor one half the size of the central and cuspidate with a small cuspule arising from the cingulum on the anterior and a second on the posterior portion.
Canine not larger than the second premolar the buccal surface is abruptly convex.
The first premolar is small not wedged in with complete cingulum.
The space between it and canine narrower than that between it and second premolar.
The second premolar as long as the canine and slightly fluted.
Molars as in Corynorhinus.
Lower teeth.
Incisors crowded trifid i. e. the main cusp possesses a well developed cuspule on each side of the base  the cingulum on the posterior side being large.
The first and second teeth overlap for a distance equalling onehalf of their diameters.
The third incisor retains a posterior cuspule which is larger than the anterior and separated from the main cusp by a wide interval.
The canine is small and projects but a slight degree above the incisors.
It exhibits a marked cuspule on the cingulum anteriorly.
The premolars are separated by a small interval.
The first is smaller than the s2Cond distinctly trifid and contiguous to the canine.
The second is much larger and trihedral.
The molars as in Corynorhinus the apicies of cusps acicular  the lingual surface of hypoconid is trifid.
NEW AND HITHERTO TINFIGURED JAPANESE MOLLUSKS.
BY H. A. PILSBRY.
The forms noticed below and illustrated upon the accompanying plates were collected in Japan by Mr. Frederick Stearns of Detroit Michigan and placed in the writer's hands for study.
So rich in animal life are the Japanese waters that Ave may still expect novel and beautiful forms of mollusks for many years to come from that quarter.
The illustrations are due to the liberality of Mr. Stearns.
Thylacodes medusae n. sp.
PI.
XVII XVIII.
A large species nearly always living in clusters attached generally to shells.
The young form an irregular spiral the whorls of which rest prone upon the base of attachment.
As the tube increases in diameter it becomes cariuated on the lower outer portion or the part corresponding to the  shoulder of the whorl in a regularly spiral gasteropod.
At this stage the whorls become more laxly coiled and when not too closely clustered present the appearance of such planorboid forms as T. niasier Dh. T. atra Rouss etc.
This stage is shown in the cluster pictured on pi.
XVI.
The subsequent growth is erect and but slightly spiral the tube generally contracting slightly in diameter and cylindrical in form.
The sculpture consists of narrow longitudinal cords at rather wide intervals the spaces being occupied by a variable number of threads usually three of which the middle one is larger.
Irregular growthlines crenulate the longitudinals.
This sculpture is normally developed upon all sides of the tube.
Upon the latter part of the free portion it is often subobsolete.
The aperture is circular in adult shells at right angles to the tube and white Avithin.
The external surface is of a pale brown tint.
No internal septa were found in numerous broken specimens and although the shells were apparently alive when collected no opercula were preserved in them the absence of this organ being one of the characteristics of Thylacodes.
The dimensions may be seen in the figures which are of natural size.
The diameter of the tubes at the aperture averages 13 mm.
The embryonic shell at the time it becomes attached is bulimiform glossy and smooth  lying upon its side.
The first whorl formed after attachment takes place is perfectly plauorboid showing the nuclear shell in the center.
Locality Saruga Coast Japan.
This species differs from Vermetus imbricatus Dkr. in lacking the imbricating growthstriae of that form.
V. imbricatus as figured by Dunker is a plauorboid form like V. masier Dh. atra Rouss'etc. but it may possibly be an immature shell.
T. medusce is apparently allied to V. polyphragmus Sassi V. dentiferiis Lam.
and T.
novcehollandice Rouss. but it differs from them in having the sculpture developed over the whole circumference of the tube not confiubd to its upper surface or the part corresponding to the base of the shell in ordinary gasteropods as it is in those species.
The literature of Vermetidie is in a most confused state at present the labors of Morch being as remarkable for their obscurity as for their extent and that is considerable Terebra Stearnsii n. sp.
PI.
XIX fig.
5.
Shell very large slender and elongated.
22 Avhorls remaining in the specimen described the upper portion comprising probably about onefourth of the entire length being broken off.
The whorls are flattened having a narrow but prominent shoulder immediately below the sutures causing the spire to appear narrowly terraced.
The sculpture on the bodywhorl consists of a narrow deeply impressed spiral groove revolving at onethird of the distance between suture and peripheral angle another less impressed groove below it at the lower third the spaces limited by these two grooves being smooth save for slight growthlines.
Midway between the lower groove mentioned and the peripheral angle there is a still deeper groove with one or two impressed spiral lines on each side of it.
The base has numerous about 15 unequal spiral grooves.
The color is soiled whitish with a series of brown spots upon the middle and lower part of each whorl.
The aperture is small  columella not obviously plicate nearly vertical above strongly curving to the left below.
Alt.
of the decollated specimen 105 greatest breadth 13i mm.
 alt.
of aperture 12 bi'eadth 7 mm.
Japan exact locality unknown.
1 V. imbricatus has been renamed Thylacodes adamsii by Morch Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond.
1865 p. 99.
Siphonalia fuscolineata Pse.
PI XIX fig.
4.
This is placed among the  unfigured and undetermined  species in Tryon's monograph of the genus.
It is allied to S. loiigirostris Dkr. but has a longer spire and much smaller aperture.
Two specimens were collected in the Inland Sea of Japan.
Astralium Japonicum Dunker.
PI XIX figs.
6 7 8.
The specimens of this species collected by Ir.
Stearns attain dimensions far exceeding those of the original specimens the largest measuring 160 mm.
diam.
The operculum shows this species to belong to the section Pachypoma Gray as that section is restricted in my monograph of Astralium. The operculum is excessively like that of Astralium iiiequale the type and hitherto the only known species of the section Pachypoma.
The specimens were collected on the southeast coast of Province of Kii It is very probable that Astralium Wardii Baker recently described is merely a depressed specimen of .
Japonicum.
Vola puncticulata Dunker.
PI.
XIX figs.
1 2 3.
The specimen is figured to show the characters of this beautiful species when mature.
Bunker's original examples figured in the Ind.
Moll.
Mar.
Jap. pi.
xi figs.
10 11 being less than half grown.
It is perhaps the most beautiful species of Vola a group remarkable for beauty.
Maorochlamys Stearnsii Pilsbry.
PI.
XIX figs 9 10 ii.
Figures of this species are here given.
The description will be found on p. 457 of this volume.
Manual of Conchology X p. 221 242 1888.
31 A FINBACK WHALE  BALSINOPTERA  RECENTLY STRANDED ON THE NEW JERSEY COAST.
BY E. D. COPE.
lu the month of October of the year 1891 the carcass of a finback whale came ashore on the beach in front of the town of Ocean City Cape May County New Jersey.
The attention of some of the members of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia having been called to the circumstance Professor Angelo Heilprin was authorized to take measures to secure the skeleton for the museum of the Academy.
He was successful in obtaining possession of the carcass and with the aid of Dr. S. G. Dixon of the Academy was enabled to prepare the skeleton for tran.sportation.
This work was supervised by Mr. J. C. Ives of the Academy to whom I am especially indebted for the accompanying description of the external appearance of the monster.
An examination of the animal on the beach and a subsequent study of the skeleton on the premises of the Academy of Natural Sciences has shown that it presents characters of considerable interest to the naturalist.
Its first ribs are simple which circumstance refers it to the true genus Balcpjioptera of Gray and Flower as distinguished from Sibbaldius of these authors.
Whether the deeply bifurcate rib characteristic of the latter genus is an abnormality or not as maintained by Prof Van Beneden will claim attention at another time.
Meanwhile I give the following description of the external characters drawn up by Ir.
J. C. Ives. 
The following measurements were made hx Mr. F. W. True and myself.
The whale was lying on its back somewhat turned to the left side and partially buried in the sand.
The measurements of the paired organs were made on the right side which was better exposed than the left.
Length from the tip of the snout to the hinder border of the tail along the middle line of the body 66 ft. 11 in.
From the symphysis of the lower jaw to the angle of the mouth along the curve 16 ft. 10 in.
Distance of the ear behind the angle of the mouth 3 ft. 6 in.
Length of the ear slit 2
in.
Length of the flipper along the central line from the shoulder to the tip 7 ft. 4 in.
Along the lower margin 8 ft. 3 in.
Along the upper margin 6 ft.
Greatest width of the flipper 2 ft. 2 in.
Distance from the anus to the navel 10 ft.
Distance from the end of the tail to the anus 20 ft.
Length of the dorsal fin 1 foot.
Height of the same 5 in.
Distance of the dorsal fin from the insertion of the flukes of the tail 12 ft. 5 in.
Distance from the end of the tail to the end of the corrugations on the belly 28 ft. Width of the tail across the flukes 14 ft. 10 in.
There were about 86 corrugations on the belly.
There were no humps behind the dorsal fin nor within eight feet of the dorsal ridge exposed in front of it.
The epidermis of the entire exposed jwrtion with the exception of the under surface of the flippers was purplish slate color mottled with large blotches of a lighter tint of the same color  on the under surface of the belly these lighter blotches were streaked with white.
The under surface of the flippers i. e. the surface next the body was white.
Xearly all the epidermis of the flukes had been torn off but it appeared to have been of the general color of the body.
From the preceding it may be learned that the pectoral fin is about oneninth the total length and that the dorsal fin marks a point about onefourth the length from the posterior border of the flukes to the end of the muzzle.
In both these characters it agrees with BalcBtioptera viusculus.
In the dark color of the inferior surface it differs from this species and agrees with B. sibhaldii Gray.
In the white color of the internal face of the pectoral it agrees with the specimen described by me under the name of Sibbaldius tectirostris and differs from the individual described by Professor T. Dwight as Balcenoptera viusculus which came ashore near Boston Mass.
The under side of the pectoral is described as being black in this whale.
An examination of the osteology gives the following results.
Vertebrae  C. 7  D. 15  L. 17  C.23  total 62.
Of the cervicals only the axis has an entire vertebrarterial foramen and this is enclosed by a wide confluence of the diapophysis and parapophysis.
1 Proceedings Academy Nat.
Sci.
Philada.
1869 p. 17.
 Memoirs Boston Soc.
Nat.
History II 1871 p. 203.
The liapophyses are distinct in all of the other cervical being slightly decurved and rather elongate but they do not approach the parapophyses.
The parapojihyses are long on the sixth cervical but are totally wanting on the seventh.
There are fifteen pairs of ribs.
Of these the heads of the first pair are absolutely simple those of the second third and fourth have a well developed head besides the tuberculum.
The scapula has the usual anteropostei'ior elongation Avith well developed acromion and coracoid.
The humerus still has the head in the distinct epiphysial stage.
The phalanges commencing with the internal digit no.
2 number 4653.
These were carefully preserved by Mr. Ives and the number is probably correct with a possibility that there may have been six phalanges in the fourth digit.
The maxillaries and premaxillaries were removed from the skull in order to facilitate their transportation.
The former have the acuminate outline of those of M. musculm rather than that of M. sihbaldii.
The nasal bones have a parallogrammic superior outline but are very convex in the fore and aft direction the surface descending forwards.
They are flat posteriorly  at the middle the adjacent edges are raised but at the distal end the external edges are raised so that the superior surface is concave in the transverse direction.
The mandibular ramus is quite convex outwards and the coronoid process is very elevated.
The angle is separated from the condyle by an oblique groove but it does not project beyond it.
The otic bulla is flat on the internal side and convex on the external side the convexity separated by a groove from the internal edge.
Measurements.
cm.
Length of maxillary above on premaxillary edge  376 Length from posterior end of maxillary near nasals to posterior angle of squamosal  150 Width of maxillary at middle 50.5 Width of premaxillary at middle 19 Mandibular ramus  length on curve 500.5 Mandibular ramus depth of condyle  37.8 Mandibular ramus depth at coronoid 77 Mandibular ramus depth at middle of length  33 Mandibularjramus width at middle of length  21 Mandibular ramus depth at distal end 29 f longitudinal  14 Otic bulla  diameters  transverse 7.2 vertical at meatus  10 c  .
 f anteroposterior  97.5 bcapula diameters .
  vertical 78 Atlas transverse diameter total  83 A   T  vertical 27 Axis centrum diameters  I transverse  38 Diameters diaparapophysis i '  i i   transverse  30 IT  1  .
  .
vertical 15.5 Vertebrarterial canal diameters   transverse 15.5 c 1 IT  vertical  28 teeventh cervical diameters centrum i  transverse  35 Tenth dorsal  diameters centrum j '''''' ' 9  transverse  37 Length diapophysis of tenth dorsal  39 First caudal  diameters centrum j  ' 36  transverse  42 u length  47 Humerus    .
4  long diameter at middle of shaft  26 Ulna length  qq  Radius length  gn Chord of first rib including extremities  130 A comparison of the characters of the skeleton above enumerated leads to the following results.
The nonunion of the diapophyses and parapophyses of the cervical vertebrae posterior to the second is remarkable in view of the size of the individual.
These processes are confluent distally in the adult Balcenoptera musculus according toauthors as far as the fifth and sometimes sixth cervical inclusive.
They are so in three specimens described by Prof. Flower one by Dr. Murie and two by Dr. Gray. This is even the case with the young specimen of 48 feet in length descriled by Professor Dwight In the very young they are distinct throughout
In the two specimens which were stranded on the Orkney Islands described by Mr. Heddle which were also about fifty feet long none of the cervical apophyses were united except those of the axis as in our 1 Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 18H9 p. 604.
2 Loc.
cit.
1865 p. 210.
3 Loc.
cit.
1856. p. 187. specimen.
On this and other grounds Dr. J. E. Gray referred these to a species distinct from B. musculus under the name of B. duguidii.
 Later authors have not adopted this species.
The cervicals are in the same condition in S'lbbaldius tedirostris from the coast of Maryland.
The same structure is persistent in B. sibbaldii in spite of its great dimensions.
It is remarkable that the Ocean City specimen which is about 67 feet long nearly the adult size of B. musculus should still retain this character of immaturity.
It suggests the enquiry whether there may not be a species of finback in the Atlantic possessing characters of both the species B. musculus and B. sibbaldii.
It has been stated already that the phalanges number 4653.
Professors Flower and Van Beneden give the numbers for B. musculus as 2553  a noteworthy difference.
Professor Dwight's specimen however has 4652 which comes much nearer to our specimen.
The question arises are the numbers given to B. musculus by the authors quoted derived from defective preparations 
The figure in Gervais and Van Beneden's Osteographie des Cetaces conveys the impression that a phalange or two has been lost from the digit II.
Should the numbers given prove to be correct the increased numbers of phalanges in the American specimens again points to resemblance to B. sibbaldii where Flower gives the numbers as 4774.
In conclusion it appears that the Ocean City whale agrees with Balcenoptera musculus in the form of the head number of vertebrse and ribs proportions of pectoral fin and position of dorsal fin  but that it differs from this species and agrees with B. sibbaldii in the size color and in structure of the cervical vertebrae and that it is intermediate between the two as described by authors in the numbers of the phalanges of the manus.
It remains to be ascertained whether these characters indicate another species and if so whether the names duguidii or tedirostris are applicable to it.
1 Catalogue of Seals and Whales in the British Museum 1866 p. 144.
2 Loc.
cit. p. 158.
 Pis.
xii and xiii fig.
20
