NOTES ON SOME RECENT BRACHIOPODS.
BY WM.
H. DALL.
Terebratella transversa Sowerby.
Plate IV figs.
8 9.
T. transversa Sowerby P. Z. S. 1846 p. 94.
Dall Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila. 1873. p. 185.
Davidson Linn.
Soc.
Trans iv p. 78 1887 partly.
T. cauriua Gould Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
Ill p. 347 1850.
Habitat the Oregonian province including the southern part of Alaska and thence southward to San Pedro California low water to 100 fathoms.
I include this species because it is to some extent mixed up with the history of Eudesia Grayi and the present seems a good time to clear up the confusion.
Eudesia or Waldheim'id Grayi is a well characterized Japanese species somewhat resembling the rounder sculptured forms of T. transversa but with a different loop and hardly any mesial flexure.
It had been erroneously reported from Catalina Island California and an examination of the specimens so named showed that they belong to the genus Terebratella and I named them accordingly Terebratella occidentalis.
The Californian shell is quite rare and fifteen years afterwards having found that T. transversa is occasionally marked with crimson I began to suspect that my occidentalis was merely a brighter colored more sharply sculptured southern race of transversa.
The types of occidentalis being inaccessible I had no means of deciding in regard to this suspicion which was communicated to the late Dr. Thos.
Davidson with the result that certain varieties of transversa were as it now appears wrongly identified and figured as my occidentalis.
In the last publication of Dr Davidson Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
2 Zool.
IV pi.
16 figs.
14 and 14a represent a variety of T. transversa but not T. occidentalis as there supposed.
Figure 13 is a reproduction of ray original rather obscure figure of occidentalis.
The reception of a fine specimen of occidentalis collected by the U. S. Fish Com.
Str.
Albatross and an opportunity of inspecting my original types now in the museum of the State University at Berkeley California has shown that the two forms are perfectly distinct and T. occidentalis is therefore to be reinstated in its independence.
T. transversa has two principal varieties a nearly smooth and somewhat rounded form which might retain in a varietal sense the original name since it has been so applied by Davidson op.
cit.
pi.
16  while the other is still more transverse strongly sculptured and for which Davidson has retained Gould's name of caurina.
The latter form is more commonly found near shore and even just below low water of extreme spring tides.
In deep quieter water it grows to a much larger size and is smoother  in one collected by Prof O.
B. Johnson of Seattle State of Washington in the deep water off Port Orchard Puget Sound the neural valve measures 50 mm.
high and 58 mm.
wide while the two closed valves have a diameter of Sl'O mm.
This places the species among the largest living brachiopods and certainly the largest living Terebratella as far as known.
In specimens from south of San Francisco the livid pink of the northern form is frequently replaced by a vivid crimson.
Terebratella occidentalis Dall.
Plate IV figs.
C 7.
TerebratJla occidetilalis Dall Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci. IV p. 182 pi.
1 fig.
7 1871.
Proe.
Acad Nat.
Sci.
Phil. 1873 p. 18t. Terebratella transversa Davidson in part not of Sowerbj.
Monterey and Santa Barbara Islands California Dall Cooper etc.
A fine specimen dredged off San Clemente Island California by the U. S. Fish Commission Steamer Albatross shows that this species is distinguished from T. traiisversa Sowerby and all others by the fact that its strong mesial fold is convex in the smaller or hsemal valve instead of concave  in the smaller number and more angular character of its radiating ribs  and from northern 2 transversa in being pure white painted with crimson instead of gray or orange ferruginous  though in the matter of color the southern specimens of transvtrsa.
are like occidentalis.
Eudesia venosa Sol.
var.
1 lenticularis Deshajes.
Waldheimia lenticularis Desh. 1839 Davidson op.
cit.
p. 52 pi.
IX figs.
213 ISSti.
Tirebratula pulvinata iould Proc.
Best.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. Ill p. 347 1850.
Terebratella pulvinata Carpenter Dall et.
al. Davidson op.
cit.
p. 90 pi.
XVI fig.
15 1887.
Habitat New Zealand Hutton Dr. Kershner U. S. K  Patagonia U. S. Expedition under Wilkes also U. S. Fish Commission Steamer Albatross at Stations 2778 and 2779 in Magellan Strait at a depth of 6080 fathoms.
Not  Puget Sound  as originally stated by Gould from erroneous labels of the Wilkes Expedition.
.
lenticularis is not well distinguished from varieties of E. venosa and is probably in its typical form a local race representing for New Zealand the Patagonian venosa.
Strictly intermediate specimens are in the U. S. National Museum from the Straits of jNIagelan.
I showed a good many years ago that the Puget Sound locality was an error and that Gould's specimen almost certainly came from Orange Harbor Patagonia.
The figures given by Davidson from New Zealand specimens of the stages through which Eadesia lentieularis asses before assuming its normal adult loop show conclusively that Gould's Te7ebratilapuhinata is the Terehratella stage of the adolescent Eudesia lentieularis or the E. veiiosa from which the former is doubtfully distinct.
Dr. Davidson has suggested that it might be a smooth Terehratella dorsata op.
cit.
p. 91 but his first supposition that it was an immature Etidesia venosa was much nearer the mark.
It has nothing of the aspect or texture of T. doj'sata and had the specimens actually been examined by him I think he would never have entertained that idea.
A second specimen agreeing with Gould's type was found attached to an E. venosa collected at Orange Harbor.
Genus MEGERLIA King.
Megerlia monstruosa Seaechi.
Terebratula titom.tr iiosa Scacchi Osscrv.
Zool.
2 p. 8 18.'.S.
Morrisia gigantea leshayes Moll.
Isle lourbon .
37 pi.
32 figs.
910 1863.
Megerlia truncata Linne var.
monstruosa Davidson op.
cit.
p. 108 pi.
XIX figs.
2122a 1887.
Megerlia disparilis Dall name onlv U. S. Xat.
Mils 5u11.
No.
37. p. 28.
No.
8 1889.
Habitat Mediterranean 15229 fms.
also the Atlantic in deep water Isle of Bourbon near Mauritius Maillard  Barbados on dead coral from 100 fathoms U. S. Fish Commission.
The young shell referred to which was obtained at Barbados some years ago presents some characters which greater age would have obscured the foramen as in Platidia occupies normally part of both valves and its margins slightly prolonged do not show any evidence of distortion erosion or disease.
The larger or neural valve is covered with spongy tubercles arranged approximately on the incremental lines but more or less irregular.
The smaller or neural valve is much smoother and at this age marked only with incremental lines.
Neither valve shows any radiating ribs such as are so strongly marked on the beaks of the average 3f.
truncata.
It is well known to dredgers how abundant M. truncata is where it occurs living at all.
A moderately large cobble overgrown with coral or corallines will sometimes afford forty or fifty specimens.
Now there seems no reason to doubt the assigned habitat of Maillard's specimen and that from Barbados is beyond dispute.
Consequently we have if we persist in regarding M. monstruosa as a monstrous form of f.
truncata the anomaly of a monstrous variety of a hrachiopod being found in widely separated parts of the world unaccompanied by the normal form.
This I do not believe.
For some time I have regarded the M. moiistraosa as probably a distinct species.
Dr. Davidson also had strong suspicions of its distinctness  refused to consider it as a mere monstrosity but with characteristic caution placed it in his last work as a variety of 3.
truncata.
I regard the discovery of this MegerUa in the West Indies as conclusive evidence of its specific independence of J truncata beside being an interesting addition to the fauna of the Americas.
Explanation of Plate IV.
1.
Terehratula Stearnsii Dall and Pilsbry  48'5.
2.
Terehratula Stearnsii front view  33'0.
3.
Terehratula Stearnsii side view  485.
4.
Terehratella Go uldii Dull  420.
5.
Terehratella Go aldii side ey  37'0.
6.
Terehratella occidentalis Dall view of rather aged specimen  3r0.
7.
Terehratella occidentalis same specimen from in front 31'.
8.
Terehratella transversa Sowerby young specimen of same size as the preceding for comparison of sculpture and flexure  365.
9.
The same front view  365.
The numerals indicate the actual length in millimeters of the longest diameter of the figure referred to measured on the specimen figured when placed in the position represented.
