A NEW SPECIES OF PYCNOGONUM FROM CALIFORNIA.
BY .1.
E. IVES In a collection of Crustaceans and Echinodernis from San Diego California recently sent to me for determination by Mr. Frederick Stearns of Detroit there is an apparently iindescribed species of Fycnogonu7n.
It is of especial interest owing to the fact that only a single species belonging to the group of the Pantopoda has been described from the Pacific Coast of North America. Although only two species are thus now known from the Wet Coast it is probable that it will be found in the future that a number of species exist on these shores.
Professor Edmund B. AVilsonhas enumerated fifteen species from the New England waters and it is possible that as many may be found upon the Pacific Coast.
Five specimens were sent by Mr. Stearns.
As none of them possess ovigerous legs I presume they are all females.
The species has been named after the collector.
To the liberality of the same gentleman I am indebted for the preparation for publication of the accompanying plate.
The species may be characterized as follows  Pycnogonum Stearnsi n. sp.
Body broad and flat.
Lateral processes with scarcely any interval between them.
Proboscis subcylindrical slightly swollen in its anterior half but contracting somewhat at its extremity about onethird the total length of the body.
Each cephalothoracic segment with a prominent tubercle dorsally in the median line on the posterior border and a somewhat smaller tubercle on the outer edge of each lateral process  first segment about twothirds of the length of the proboscis with a not very broad slightly constricted neck  second third and fourth segments respectively equal to about twothirds of the length of the first  posterior borders of the segments slightly elevated.
Oculiferous tubercle bluntly conical  eyes black small nearly equally spaced  the posterior pair slightly further apart than the anterior pair.
' Amniothea longicatidata Stimpson from Puget Sound Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1864 p.
159.
Report U. S. Comm.
of Fish and Fisheries 1878 1880.
Abdomen clavate truncated at its extremity slightly swollen in the middle.
Legs stout  first or basal joint bi'oad rather broader anteropos teriorly than the lateral processes of the segments with the appearance of a dorsal notch on its outer edge due to the close approximation of two dorsal tubercles  second joint rather smaller than the first  third rather smaller than the second  the three joints together in the third ambulatory leg about as long as the proboscis  fourth strongly developed about twothirds of the length of the proboscis proximal half of the ventral surface considerably swollen and a single rather weakly developed dorsal tubercle at its distal extremity  fifth about equal in length to the fourth but more slender sixth rather shorter than the fifth  seventh very short subtriangular  eighth about as long as the sixth  ninth about twofifths of the eighth.
Fifth sixth and eighth joints Avithout tubercles  two or three bristles upon the distal dorsal surface of the sixth  a few fine hairs upon the ventral surface of the seventh and a few bristles upon ventral surface of the eighth.
No auxiliary claws.
Color in alcohol yellowishbrown.
Length of body of the largest of the five specimens from the extremity of the proboscis to the extremity of the abdomen H mm.
Three of the type specimens have been given by Mr. Stearns to the museum of the Academv and two of them are in his own collection.
This species appears to be mostly nearly allied to Pycnogonum I'Utorale Strom differing from it among other characters however markedly in the shape of the proboscis which in the latter species is conical and in Pycnogonum Stearnsi subcylindrical.
A list of the species o Pycnogonum hitherto known is appended. P. littorale Strom.
Coasts of the North Atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. In this list Astridium Pycnogonuvi orientale Dana from Balabac Strait U. S. Expl.
Exped. vol.
xiii p. 1391 pi.
96 figs.
2 a b c has not been included as it probably represents a distinct genus.
Philippi's Archiv.
f.
Naturg. 1843 ix Jahrg.
p. 175 record of this species from Naples I consider to be exceedingly doubtful as Professor Dohrn did not find it there.
Philippi probably mistook one of the two species described from that place by Professor Dohrn for this species.
I am also very skeptical in regard to the species described under this name from Chili by Nicolet Gay's Historia fisica y politica de Chili Zool. T. Ill p. 308 Atlas pi.
IV fig.
8.
If a species of Pycnogonutn is found on the coast of Chili it is almost absolutely certain that it is not P. littorale.
If the figure given by Nicolet is correct it must be a species distinct from P. littorale.
Var tentte Slater Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
vol.
Ill p. 283.
Japan.
P. auitrale Grube Jahresb.
der schles.
Ges.
f. vateri.
Cultur 1869 p.
54.
Australia.
P. nodulosum Dohrn Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel III pp.
203207 Tal.
XVI Fig.
13 1881.
Mediterranean Naples.
P.pusillum Dohrn Op.
cit.
pp.
207210 Taf.
XVI.
Fig.
48.
Mediterranean Naples.
P. crassirostre Sars Den Norske NordliavsExpedition XX pp.
1214 1891.
Norwegian Coast Iceland.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE X.
Fig.
1.
Pycnogonum Stearnsi n.
sp. dorsal surface much enlarged.
Fig.
2.
Right side of the trunk.
Fig.
3.
Ventral surface of the trunk.
Fig.
4.
Posterodorsal surface of the third ambulatory leg on the left side much more enlariie i.
