ON THE ANATOMY OF SAGDA CYSTICOPSIS GISTA AND DENTELLARIA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Sagda Hyalosagda similis C. B. Adams.
PI.
XIII figs.
A.
B. C. D. E. The specimens were collected by Mr. C. W. Johnson at Port Antonio Jamaica in April 1891.
They were killed by drowning.
The foot is very long and narrow measuring length 20 breadth in the middle 3 mm.
The sides of the sole are subparallel.
The sole PI.
XIII fig.
E s. has a central longitudinal sulcus but is not tripartite.
Above the foot is granulated.
The jaw PI.
XIII fig.
D. is delicate thin and arcuate having no median projection.
It resembles somewhat the jaw of Microphysa and Bulhnulus seeming to be composed of twentyseven narrow vertical plates soldered together but slightly overlapping on their outer edges.
This shinglelike imbrication is not however as marked as in Bulimulus.
The teeth resemble those of Sagda haldemaniana as figured by W. G. Binney but they are shorter.
The genital system PI.
XIII figs.
A.
B. C. is elongated.
The female organs fig.
C. lack dart sac or other accessory glands.
The oviduct of the several specimens examined contained from four to six ova of a shortoval form measuring 24 x 18 mm.
The egg shell is hard brittle and calcareous.
The albumen gland a gl.
is narrow.
The duct of the spermatheca sp.
is very long and is swollen at its origin.
The male organs figs.
A.
B.
are peculiar.
The penis sac p. is long and at its apex are inserted the vas deferens v. d. the retractor muscle r. p. and a long folded flagellum fl..
From the middle of the penis sac springs a curiously complicated accessory diverticulum figs.
A B. 2 o..
This organ is at first of equal size with the penis itself but it then becomes very narrow it again widens into a long convoluted blind sac.
In fig.
A this organ is seen in its natural position as it lies folded Avithin the bodycavity.
In fig.
B. the organ is seen uncoiled to show its form and length I do not know that any similar structure has been observed hitherto.
The retractor muscle of the penis seemed to be attached to the vaginal sac instead of to the bodywall.
This may possibly be a mistake however.
Cysticopsis tenerrima C. B. Adams.
PI.
XIII fig.
P. The single siDeciinen which furnished the following details was taken by Mr. C. W. Johnson at Port Antonio Jamaica in April 1891.
The animal is black externally.
The foot is short sole indistinctly tripartite.
The genitalia PI.
XIII fig.
F. are more like Sagda than any other form as yet known and the group must evidently be removed from the vicinity of Hemltrochus Avhere it has hitherto been placed.
The female system has the uterus enormously distended with young which were twentyseven in number in the specimen examined.
The young shells are globular consisting of two whorls  when dry they are very iridescent.
Those in the upper part are less developed than the lower ones and a single ovum enclosed in a very thin brittle white shell was found.
The sperm atheca sp.
has a long bifurcating duct closely bound to the oviduct its extreme upper portion only being free.
The penis sac .
is long the vas deferens inserted near its summit.
It terminates in two flagellate organs .
the smaller being short and sickleshaped.
At the lower fourth of the penissac arises an organ comparable to the accessory organ in Sagda shnilis.
This organ terminates in two long flagella x.
x.
Aegista platyomphala Mlldff.
PI.
XIII figs.
G. H. A specimen containing the dried animal furnished the jaw and lingual membrane.
The jaw PI.
XIII fig.
H. is rather strong slightly arcuate and furnished with five or six wide unequal ribs.
These with the exception of the one nearest the center are low and not strongly defined.
The cutting edge is weakly denticulated by the ribs.
The superiorlateral portions of the jaw are thin.
The radula PI.
XIII fig.
G. is short and broad consisting of 33133 teeth.
The rhachidian tooth r. and the inner ten laterals lack side cusps.
The eleventh lateral develops a side cusp.
There are fifteen or sixteen time lateral teeth.
The inner marginal teeth become tricuspid by the bifurcation of the principal cusp  the outer marginals are quadricuspid the side cusp also bifurcating.
The shell furnishing these preparations is Xo.
60443 of the Academy collection.
Collected by Mr. B. Schmacker.
Locality KwangtungGuangdung China.
Caracolus Dentellaria orbiculata Ftr. PI.
XIII fig.
T.
J.
The specimens were collected in Martinique by I'Abbe Vathelet and transmitted to me by post alive.
The jaw of this species has been figured as smooth by Binney but as that examined by me diflers in having about seven low unequal rounded ribs I have deemed it best to figure it for comparison fig.
J..
It is likely that there is considerable variation in this organ some closely allied species having a strongly ribbed jaw others a smooth jaw as Binney has demonstrated.
The sole is indistinctly tripartite.
The genitalia are intermediate between those of Lucerna and Caracolus s. str.
The penis has a short flagellate extension beyond the insertion of the vas deferens fig.
I..
The spermatheca duct is long sp.
The genitalia of Caracolus Lucerna Dentellaria and Thelidomus have proved that the reference of all these large opaque Helices of tropical America to a single genus Caracolus is a natural arrangement.
The classification proposed by me in 1889' mainly npon conchologic characters will therefore stand.
It is safe to predict that the South American sections Lahyrinthus and Isomeria will prove to be essentially similar to Lucerna and Dentellaria in anatomy.
Explanation of Plate XIII.
Fig.
A. Genitalia of Sagda similis showing the penis and the lower portion of the female system p. penis r. p. retractor muscle of the penis .
flagellum 2. o. accessory organ of the penis v. d. vas deferens.
Fig.
B.
View of the lower portion of the penis with its accessory organ the latter partially pinned out.
Lettering as in fig.
A.
Fig.
C. Female genital organs of Sagda similis.
At 0. are seen eggs in the oviduct.
Fig.
D. Jaw of Sagda similis.
Fig.
E. Foot of Sagda similis.
t. tail showing granulation s. sole showing the median furrow.
Fig.
F. Genital system of Cysticopsis tenerrima Ad .
penis y.
flagellum  r. p. retractor muscle v. d. vas deferens x. x. flagellate extensions of the accessory organ of penis  g. cl.
genital cloaca sp.
spermatheca a. gl.
albumen gland  h. d. hermaphrodite duct.
Fig.
G. Teeth of Aegista platyottiphala Mlldff.
Fig.
H. Jaw oi Aegista platyompkala Mlldff.
Fig.
I. Genitalia of Denlellaria orbiculata Fer.
Lettering as in Fig.
F. ZJJaw of Dentellaria orbiculata Fer.
 Manual of Conchology 2d Series V p. 75 76.
216 proceedings of the academy of 1892 May 3.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Fortysix persons present.
In Memory of Dr. Sereno Watson  The following resolutions were received from the Botanical Section and unanimously adopted   Whereas  The Botanical Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has learned with profound regret of the death of Dr. Sereno Watson of Cambridge Mass. and desirous of placing on record its sense of this great loss in consequence of which botanical science througout the world suffers therefore.
Resolved.
 That we recognize his invaluable services in the dissemination of a knowledge of American botany a work to which he had given his undivided attention for many years and which has rendered his name famous wherever the study of plants and plant life has been cultivated.
Resolved.
 That a copy of this minute be forwarded to the President of Harvard University and to the Gray Herbarium at Harvard with which he was so long associated and that the same he offered for publication in the Proceedings of this Academy.
May 10.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Fortytwo persons present.
The deaths of D. B. Cummins a member and of Dr. C. A. Dohru a correspondent were announced.
May 17.
The President General Isaac J. AVistar in the chair.
Fortythree persons present.
May 24.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Fortythree persons present.
On the Cephalohumeral Muscle and the socalled rudiviental Clavicle of Carnivora.
 Dr. Harrison Allen spoke of some of the peculiarities of the cephalohumeral muscle in mammals and invited especial attention to the presence of a small iibrocartilaginous disc in the junction of the cephalohumeral with the muscles which are inserted in the bones at the region of the shoulder.
This is well defined in Felts and is identihed as a rudimental clavicle.
Dr. Allen had detected this structure in Herpestis Taxklea Cercoleptes JBassarls and Frocyon.
The cartilage is either in the form of a flat disc or a minute scytheshaped rod and is constant in lying directly over the greatest convexity formed by the round of the shoulder.
It seems to give strength to the centre of a musclesystem of which the cephalic cervical pectoral and latissimal sheets are parts.
The identification of such a plate or rod with a true clavicle is doubtful since in Balantiopteryx a genus of bats the structure above described is remarkably developed while the clavicle is as well formed as in any other animal.
The long rodlike body is continuous with a fascicle of fibres arising from the pectoralis and receives the insertion of the occipitoiJollicalis The anterior end of the rod lies in the upper border of the wing membrane and is continuous with the fibrous tliread which represents the tendon of tlie occipitopoUicalis as this muscle is defined in the bats generally.
From both the proximal and distal divisions of this muscle delicate fascicles pass toward the elbow and the entire plan appears to be associated with the rudiment of the characteristic skin sac.
Slight modification of this arrangement is met with in the allied genus Rhynchonycteris.
Comparison of this arrangement with that seen in the common brown bat Adelonycteris fuscvs the noctula bat NoctuUnia noctula and the false vampire  Vampyrus spectrum showed that the part taken by the rod in Balantiopteryx is the tendon of a pectoral musclefascicle which is inserted into the occipitojollical muscle as it crosses the shoulder while in the group of the Molossi the musclefascicle is fleshy throughout its entire extent but on the whole preserving the same relations.
Thus the fibrocartilage of Balanteopteryx is represented by fibrous tissue in AdeloHycieris and both these in turn by muscle in the Molossi.
Dr. Allen believed that it was inexact to speak of a clavicle and of this rod as things which were equal.
The clavicle acts with the scapula in supporting the head of the humerus but in no wise limiting or determining its movements while the rod is always over the outer aspect of the shaft of the humerus below its head and here acts as a check to abduction of this bone.
15 218 proceedings of the academy of 1892.
May 31.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Twentynine members present A paper entitled A Catalogue of theFishes of Greece with notes OQ the Vernacular Names now in use and those employed by Classical Authors by Horace Addison Hoffman assisted by David Starr Jordan was presented for publication.
Henry Redmond M. D. and J. F. Sachse were elected members.
Edw.
J. Miers of London was elected a correspondent.


