REPORT ON THE HYMENOPTERA COLLECTED IN WEST GREENLAND.
BY WILLIAM J.
FOX.
The Hymenoptera enumerated in the present paper were collected by Messrs. Mengel and Hughes, Avho accompanied the Academy's recent expedition to West Greenland.
The larger portion of the collection was made at Disco Island, in lat.
69° 10' and at McCormick Bay, Lat.
77° 40' while Herbert Island, Lat.
77° 30' contributes one specimen.
The species of XemaUis described below was forwarded to Mr. C. L. Marlatt of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, a specialist to whom I am indebted for the description.
My thanks are due Prof. Angelo Heilprin and lo Mr. E. T. Cresson for the opportunity of studying the collection.
TEREBRANTIA.
Nematus borealis Marlatt, n. sp.
S — Black, including the tegulffi and trophi ; labrum, tip of abdomen, tips of femora, tibise, tarsi except tips and posterior pair dull yellowish or resinous.
Antennae moderately long and slightly flattened; joints three to five, nearly equal ; all coarsely punctured and faintly pubescent.
Head more angular than is commonly the case in Xematus and resembling in this respect the genus Dolenis and in Nematus, N. concolor and particularly yapax ; when viewed from above, sloping regularly and considerably posteriorly ; sparsely pubescent ; region including ocelli abruptly elevated or shield-shaped — the posterior ocelli on border of shield and the anterior ocellus in the wide basin of the shield ; clypeus slightly emarginate, shining.
Scutellum and lateral lobes of the mesothorax shining.
Abdomen with central longitudinal ridge above on posterior half Wings perfectly hyaline, veins dark-brown, including costal to base ; stigma large, yellow ; second submarginal cell uniform in width, i. e., not especially widened at first angle ; distan( e of first recurrent nervure from base of second cell not twice that of second from tip.
Inner tooth of claw large but somewhat smaller than outer tooth.
Length '25 inch (6mm.)
Expanse "60 inch (14mm.)
Described from a single $ from Disco Island, This species is allied to, but readily distinguished from concolor, rapax and labradoris.
Ichneumon discoensis n. sji.
A specimen from Disco Island, August lOtli, does not agree with any of the species heretofore recorded from Greenland or Arctic America.
The following description will aid in distinguishing it : Black ; the apical half of the femora, the tibise, tarsi, the apex of the first, the second and third entirely and the base of the fourth abdominal segments, above and beneath, and a spot on the scutelkim, reddish brown ; the tips of fore tibipe and the apical tarsal joints dark ; head and thorax clothed with short, black pubescence, finely and evenly punctured ; clypeus truncate ; antennae situated at a point opposite the middle of the eyes, much shorter than the body, entirely black, 38-jointed, the scape short and stout, hirsute beneath ; wings subhyaline, with a violaceous reflection, the nervures and stigma black ; metathorax strongly punctured, rugose on the sides, the posterior face enclosed by a very strong ridge, bicarinated ; the upper surface bears four ridges, the two inner ones by far the shortest, all four being connected with the ridge enclosing the posterior face ; at the top of the metapleurse there is another strong, curved ridge, which extends nearly to the posterior coxse ; femora finely punctured ; abdomen with fine close punctures, the third segment depressed at base.
Length about ll*5mm.
Exolytus ?p.
?
A small species with the head and thorax black, the four anterior legs except the coxse and trochanters, the hind legs from the apex of the femora, all brownish.
Disco Island, August 10th.
Cryptus arcticus Schiodte.
Four 9 specimens.
Disco Island, August 10th., agree with the description of this species.
ACULEATA.
Bombus nivalis Dhlb.
Two $ specimens.
McCormick Bay, July 27th.
Bombus derhamellus Tllig.
Two $ specimens.
Herbert Island, July 24th ; McCormick Bay, July 27th.
Bombus sp.
?
A specimen in very poor condition from Disco, June 27th, from present appearances seems to have had the prothorax, scutellum, the first three and last two abdominal segments, dorsally, with yellow pubescence ; the inner side of first joint of posterior tarsi with brownish, glittering pubescence ; otherwise black.
Bombus hyperboreus Dhlb.
{=arcticus Kirby.)
This species appears to have been the most abundant.
In all four 5 and six $ specimens were obtained.
Disco Island, June 27th., three 9 's, August lOth., six ^ 's.
One specimen a female, has the yellowish pubescence much paler than in the other specimens of this sex.
Bombus sp.
?
Two $ specimens.
Disco Island, August 10th.
I have been unable to identify these specimens with any of the known species of Europe and America.
The great variation to which representatives of this genus are subject and the lack of European material at hand, renders it unsafe to describe these as new.
