CONTEIBUTIONS TO THE LIFEHISTORIES OF PLANTS NO 7.
BY THOMAS MEEHAN.
On THE Vitality of some Annual Plants.
Prof. Tbeo.
Holm of the Smithsonian Institution is the aiitlior of a suggestive paper under this title.'
He notes a number of species generally recognized as annual which frequently furnish biennial or erenniai individuals.
Such observations are especially useful for it is deviation from general rule that furnishes us with keys to unlock the great treasurebox of nature's secrets.
If we can show that annuals are not always annuals but sometimes become perennials we have the opportunity to watch the process and learn as the work goes on.
Horticulturists must have long known without giving the matter serious thought that annuals become perennials under some circumstances.
Petunias Gaillardias and indeed I can think of no annual plant of any kind whatever that the horticulturist cares to preserve that he can not preserve from cuttings when he so desires.
Even in the case of those annuals which throw up only a single flower scape he plucks off the flower head before the flower buds expand cuts up this flower stem into sections and raises plants which will live continuously for many years if annually treated in the same way.
Annuals or biennials will live for many years if the flower buds are plucked out as soon as they appear.
The author of this paper has seen mignonette six years old that had been treated in this manner.
Annual parts of perennial plants also live over when propagated in the same way.
Perennial hlox hollyhock and similar plants are raised from sections of the flower stems which have had their flower heads taken out a few weeks before they were cut into the segments desired.
It is worthy of remark just here that few plants except those which we distinctly recognize as ligneous have perennial parts.
The potato lives only through the tubers it makes annually and even the strawberry plant will be found to be dead below the addition of the past year.
Gladiolus lilies many terrestrial orchids and numerous other plants only live over through the additions of the preceding year.
The older portions die after new portions have 1 American Journal of Science Vol.
XLII Oct. 1S91.
been formed.
In brief the power to produce offshoots or stolons is really the only difference between the annual or perennial herbaceous plant.
It may now be further noted that morphologically there is no difference between a stolon and a flower scape  a rhizome or a permanent flower stem.
The strawberry is one of the best illustrations of this.
The Bush Alpine never makes a runner  all that would be stolons becoming erect flow'er scapes.
The transitions between flower scapes and stolons may be seen at any time by the careful observer.
But the flower scape is an annual while the stolons remain over until another season.
We may now consider the causes inducing the annual or the more enduring conditions.
It is now well understood that though the reproductive condition of a plant is a natural outgrowth of the vegetative there is a certain antagonism between them.
The husbandman must root  prune or take off a ring of bark or practise some such severe measure before an extra vigorous tree can le made productive.
On the other hand even sound trees have been led to death's door by overbearing.
Annuals die from no other cause than by the heavy draft on vital power through bearing seed so early and profusely with nothing but a single rootstock to provide nutrition for the whole.
Professor Holm though he is not clear whether it is climate soil cultivation or other cause which leads the annual occasionally into the perennial class quotes Lange as showing that Carex eyperoldes under normal conditions truly annual is  able to vegetate several years Avhen it happens to live without flowering.
Several years ago I had a number of plants of the caraway Carinn Crti transplanted after they had commenced to push up flower stalks.
As the flower stalks withered they were plucked out to the base.
All the plants became bushy perennials 
Pi'ofiting by the hint I have some plants with the stems annually plucked out that are now four years old.
Going back to the strawberry why does the scape die the same season and the stolons endure
Is it not that the stolons sending out roots at the end which form leaves instead of flowers are under more favorable conditions of nutrition
The scape is drawing heavily on vitality Avhich the unfavorable conditions of nutrition do little to sustain.
I have little doubt but that any annual may be made perennial by persistently destroying the flower buds as they appear.
When we see in a state of nature some few plants survive while numbers perish the season of their birth we may reasonably look for some circumstances which in these plants led them to bear seeds less profusely than others or to some other condition which aided the vegetative in its struggle with the reproductive forces.
On Selfpollination in Amsonia Tabernmontana.
To ray mind the number of plants Avhich have their flowers constructed for selffertilization is so large that it would seem hardly worth particularizing them but for the industrious work of noting the opposite characteristics which prevails in our scientific serials.
It seems not fair to true science that only one side of nature's story should be told.
This is why I record some selffertilizing cases.
It has been left to me to point out that only those plants which have other means of persistence than by seeds have flowers which are wholly dependent on external agents for pollination  and also to show that while flowers which have arrangements for selffertilization are abundantly fertile those which cannot make use of pollen without assistance are frequently barren and are at a sad disadvantage in making their way through the world.
So clearly has this been worked out to my mind that when a plant is found abundantly fertile it is fair to assume that it must be arranged for selfpollination.
In Asdepiadacece with the large majority of the floAvers barren we may theoretically assume insect agency  with many abundantly fertile Apoeynacece Ave may assume selffertilization.
I have already shown than the Madagascar periwinkle Vinca ronea with every flower fertile in American gardens is a selffertilizer.
Another of the same order Amsonia Tabernceviontana the form known as A. sallcljolia Pursh is abundantly fertile.
I watched the flowers this season satisfied that they would be found arranged for selfpollination.
The plants proved as usual abundantly fertile.
On one panicle there were twentynine pairs of follicles that matured  there were many others that had been evidently fertilized but failed to reach maturity through lack of nutrition.
Showy as the blue flowers are and we might suppose in view of prevailing speculations made so in order to be attractive to insects the arrangements are such that no insect not even the ubiquitous thrips can gain entrance t the nectary.
The mouth of the tube is so densely matted with hair that Faux clausa is the term used in the description of the species by Latin authors.
If a pollenclothed tongue were thrust through the mass it would be thoroughly cleaned and in like manner the flower's own pollen would be brushed back when the insect withdrew its tongue.
But a greater difficulty presents itself The capitate stigma with its surrounding rim completely fills the upper portion of the tube.
There is no space for an insect's tongue to get past the stigma.
But even could this rubicon be passed a dense mass of hair presses close against the style and the most powerful insect known to the writer could hardly force a passage.
The entrance of insects is completely blocked.
To provide for pollination the anthers curve over and rest on the stigma and the pollen on ejection from the anthers can do no more than cover the stigma with their own pollen.
In many plants which have flowers that are generally fertilized by their own pollen the arrangements will often permit of pollination from some other but in the case of this msom'o nothing but selfpollination is possible.
To those who may not have flowers for comparison the figure of this plant in  Botanical Register Plate 151 will aid in making some of the above noted points clear.
On a special form of Cleistogamy in Polygonum acre.
In a paper published in the Proceedings of the Academy 1889 p. 59 I pointed out that in almost all  probably in all cases the fertile flowers were pollinized in the bud in all the species of Polygonum that I had had the opportunity of examining that they were really cleistogamous.
There are two classes of flowers in the inflorescence.
Many expand and are to all appearance hermaphrodite wth all their sexual organs perfect but infertile  another class never opens but are invariably fertile.
In May 1890 I noticed a quantity of P. acre in a swamp in Chester County Pennsylvania with a short and close habit.
The leaves were shorter and broader and the ochrea shallower than usual.
Small wliite flowers Avere protruding above the sheaths and I suspected I had found a new species in the section with axillary flowers.
But on examining P. acre in other localities I found in every case flowers hidden under the ochrea from even the lowest axil on the branch.
It was the shallowness of the ochrea in the form I found exposing the flowers that led to the discovery.
Since then I have examined herbarium specimens from a very wide range of territory and find these hidden flowers always with this species and in many cases giving such a glandlike character to the base of the ochrea that it is inconceivable how the production of these flowers should have been overlooked so long.
I gathered some specimens in the streets of Washington and showed them to the members of the American Association in attendance there  and Mr. T. H. Kearney Jr. of the University of Tennessee has since confirmed the discovery by a note in the November issue of the Botanical Gazette.
He found them in Knoxville Tenn. as late as Sept. 24th.
His excellent drawing accompanying his note shows the cleistogene flowers are much closer down among the roots than I found them.
Mr. Kearney could find them in no other species nor have I been able to do so.
A close examination of many in the large herbarium of the Academy gave no indications of this tendency in any other species.
As already noted there seems no fertile flowers in any Polygonum except from cleistogene flowers at the apex of the branches.
This species has them specially in the axils as well as in the terminal spikes.
In examining a large number of specimens in herbaria in connection with this question it is interesting to note how often P. acre is confounded with P. Ilydropiper.
For all the differences noted in our botanies I think they are more closely related than supposed.
I once thought I could easily decide the differences by the seeds but I have not unfrequently found flattish seeds in P. acre that could not be distinguished from the usual flattish seeds of P. Ilydropiper.
In forms however that we would certainly refer to the latter species no tendency to the axillary cleistogamous flowers can be detected.
On the direction of growth in Cryptogamic Plants.
No one has yet been able to present an explanation of the direction of growth in flowering plants that will stand the test of criticism.
Growth lias a general upward tendency though in the same tree we have varying directions.
INTany Conifene have one perfectly vertical central stem or leader while the side branches may be wholly horizontal or at various angles uniform in each species.
Occasionally individuals will vary from the normal line of direction and present angles wholly different from that jjrevailing in the accepted characteristic of the species.
Then we have the socalled fastigiate varieties as in the Lombardy Poplar  or in trees with pendulous branches as in many trees of gardens known as weeping forms.
To say that branches are geotropic or heliotropic does not teach us anything they only repeat the actual fact nor do any of the terms commonly used in mathematical or physical explanations of the supposed cause.
Some observations I have made in connection with mushrooms are worthy of recording.
They do nothing to elucidate the mystery but they gain for us the certainty that many partially accepted conclusions are wrong and it is always an advantage to be able to limit the circle in which we have to search.
I found a quantity of edible mushrooms growing on the sides of a newly made terrace the face of which had an angle of about 34.
The stipes of the mushrooms pushed out at an exact right angle with the plane of the slope  but about midway the stipe bent upwards so that the pileus or crown of the mushroom instead of being parallel to the slope of the bank had in a great measure become horizontal.
As the growth of the mushroom is mainly or only at night light could have had no influence in determining this direction of stipe or pileus  nor it will surely be conceded could anything connected with gravitation or the attraction of the earth.
Recently in a coal mine in Schuylkill County Pennsylvania at some 500 feet beneath the surface I noted that the same species of Pollpoms Agaricus and other fungi that grow from the trunks of dead trees were here also on the wooden supports of the gangways.
The Agaricus pushed the pileus downward or upward just as the point of grow'thwas above or beneath a log.
Just when the pileus was about to expand and separate from the stipe which Avas not until the stipe had reached its full length the latter would curve so that the pileus would be brought into a perfectly horizontal position as if the agaric were growing on a piece of level ground.
No special law governed the direction of the stipe.
They might grow horizontally for several inches from an upright log vertically from the upper side or downward from the lower side of a horizontal log.
When the time came for the expansion of the cap the already grown stipe would depart from the straight line and curve so that the cap would occupy the horizontal position as we see them above ground.
If the cap were to fully expand or to be in any rapid state of expansion when the curvature of the stipe began we might conjecture that it was some action of the pileus or cap that caused the stipe's curvature but it was evident that the departure from the straight line was nearly or quite simultaneous with the rupture of the hymen and that nothing connected with any external circumstances influencing the expansion of the pileus had anything to do with the matter.
When we consider the facts as relating to these cryptogams and the facts in connection with the various angles in the branching of the same species among flowering trees it seems to be a fair inference that the law which determines the direction of growth has very little if any relation to conditions of environment.
If the mystery is ever solved it will probably be found among the properties of the single cell from which the whole characteristic of the plant is finally developed.
Tricarpellary Umbellifers Dr. Lindley observes  Vegetable Kingdom  p. 774  in some accidental cases three carpels have been found  in Umbellifers.
In these days when the genesis of families is an active study departures from usual characters are of more value than when Lindley wrote.
It is these variations that frequently give the clue to family relationships.
It is worth recording that in Eryngium planum Linn. a species from the north of Europe and Asia trigynous flowers occur with some frequency.
I rarely examine a head without finding one such flower and I have found six in one head.
There is usually one near the largest and longest involucral bract and they are generally found in the lower part of the head in the vicinity of the bracts.
A plurality in the number of carpels is one of the characters relied on to distinguish Araltacete from Umbellifers.
The trigynous flowers of this and probably other Eryngiums show a line of relationship between the two families.
The facts may also suggest a not distant relationship with Valerianaceoi.
A MODE OF VARIATION IN StELLARIA MEDIA.
Among a number of well developed plants of the common duckweed growing on a compost heap it was interesting to note that no two seemed to be exactly alike.
They differed from one another in almost every respect .some in form of leaf or flower others in manner of growth or general habit.
One very vigorous grower with a loose rambling habit was compared with one of compact formal growth.
The leaves and general characteristics of each were precisely the same  but in one the internodes were eight inches while in the compact form they were but four.
The whole diflference in appearance Avas dependent on this single circumstance.
On the Sexes of the Holly.
In Martyn's edition of Miller's  Gardener's Dictionary published in 1807 much stress is laid on the fact that the English holly.
Ilex Aquijolmm is dioecious.
Philip Miller say it was discovered first by his father.
It was considered a very important discovery as removing Ilex from the class Tetrandria where Linnjeus placed it and giving it place in Polygaviia dimcia.
In those days botanical facts of this character had bearing on few other questions than that of classification.
It is not surprising therefore that authors since Martyn's time have hardly thought the matter worthy of any consideration.
The most cx'itical of all English botanists.
Dr. Arnold Bromfield in his Flora Vectensis giving nearly two pages of close print to a minute description of every character passes over the question of sex by observing   the earlier flowers are said to be generally imperfect and such as are 4cleft to generally want the germen which accounts for the small quantity of berries produced by some trees which flower abundantly.
In these days when the laws which influence the production of sexes in flowers and the various questions arising from dimorphism and the relation of insects to fertilization have become matters of paramount importance the actual condition of the sexual character in the holly is a matter of considerable interest deserving much more critical attention than has been given it.
The description given by English authorities fits exactly the characters of the male flowers of Ilex opaca.
I venture therefore to express an opinion that the Hex Aqulfolium is dioecious like its American relative.
I am inclined to believe however that the dicecisra of closely related species is much more pronounced in the American than in European forms.
This would have an important bearing on evolutionary studies.
It would be worth while for observers in the old world to note whether any separate plant of Ilex Aejuifolium has truly hermaphrodite flowers or even perfect fruit on plants which seem to have only male flowers.
Supposing the English holly to liave the same characters as the American the female flower solitary on the pedicel will easily be distinguished from the bior triflorous staminate ones.
Twenty Ilex opaca trees on my grounds were carefully examined on May 30th.
Eight of these are purely pistillate plants.
Thegynsecium is large and perfectly developed in every respect and although there were apparently four stamens they were membranous and functionless.
The pistillate flowers were easily recognized by being solitary on stout pedicels.
There were but four or five flowers on each branch and one might almost pass a tree without knowing it was in bloom unless the flowers were sought for.
The male flowers on the other hand were bior triflorous and often two common peduncles arose from the same axis.
The stamens were large and the anthers abundantly polliniferous the ground beneath the trees being thickly strewn with the fallen blossoms.
The gymecium remains at the base of the flower in a wholly undeveloped condition.
By these characters one can tell at once without any critical examination the fertile from the infertile tree.
It is not improbable that there are some trees that may produce male and female flowers on the same tree  may be monfficious  but these twenty trees thoroughly dioecious would indicate this to be its prevailing characteristic.
A slight jarring of a branch indicates that the female tree may have their flowers pollinated by the agency of the wind.
Honey bees were however busily collecting nectar indifterently from the flowers of both sexes and nuiy aid in pollination.
On the Stamens of Ranunculus abortivus.
Of all plants we should hardly expect to find definite stamens in RanuncAdu  but in R. abortivns I find them uniformly in three series of five each 15 in all.
The first five mature contemporaneously with the opening of the flower and the large full anthers of this series set as they should be alternately with the petals contrast so greatly with the undeveloped ones that our first impression might be that we were examining a fivestamened flower.
In Rannnculus hulbosus blooming among these plants no such striking difference could be noted.
If other species have this peculiarity it might be useful as a sectional character.
My object in examining the flowers closely was to note their habit in relation to pollination.
As every flower and we might say every PL.
I. r.anki dt1.
