THE VASCULAR RESPIRATORY MECHANISM OF THE VERTICAL FINS OF THE VIVIPAROUS EMBIOTOCIDJE.
BY JOHN A. RYDER.
The young surf-perch, Ditrema laterale, from which this figure is drawn, measured about twenty-three millimetres in length.
It was one of several which were removed from the saccular ovary of the parent, each young fish lying lengthwise and disposed so as to bring the enormously expanded vertical fins into contact with the wide ovarian folds and the sides of the ovarian walls.
As can be seen from the figure, the lateral area of the vertical fins quite equals, if it does not exceed, the lateral areas of the body.
In fact, the dorsal is as high as the body is deep.
In the same way the caudal fin is as wide at its widest part as the body's greatest width.
The total length of the caudal is not far from a third of the total length of this larval stage.
Another feature which distinguishes this young fish from the young of all other species is the highly vascular condition of the inter-radial membranes of the vertical fins.
This vascularity is not only obvious when the object is viewed with a transmitted light, but also in sections.
The most marked development of capillary vessels is found in the flattened lobes with which the fins are bordered.
Fourteen very distinct lobes with deep notches between them are found along the margin of the tail ; about twenty-eight smaller lobes can be counted on the margin of the anal fin.
About eighteen well-marked lobes presenting the highly vascular character of the others, already mentioned, are found to border the dorsal fin, the spaces between the anterior nine rays of which, unlike the others of the same fins, are non-vascular.
In correspondence with this highly vascular condition of the marginal lobes and the inter-radial spaces in these three sets of fins, there is found to be developed a system of three sets of large arterial and venous trunks which send the blood to and carry it away from the vertical fins.
The caudal termination of the caudal vein and aorta supply the caudal fin.
In the figure it is mainly the venous trunks which are represented.
It is seen that at the point where the caudal vein enters the caudal fin it divides into two very large trunks, such as are not met with in any other known type of fish of the same age.
One of these trunks passes in a dorsal and another in a ventral direction, carrying away the blood from the dorsal and ventral halves respectively of the caudal fin.
The number of branches which pass from the two trunks mentioned correspond very closely to the number of inter-radial spaces.
A second system of vessels, much slighter in caliber after death than they probably were during life, is seen just a little way anterior to the two large venous trunks already described.
These are probably the dorsal and ventral branches of the arterial system into which the posterior termination of the caudal portion of the aorta divides in order to supply the caudal fin-membranes with arterial blood.
The radiating venous and arterial inter-radial vessels pass quite to the margin of the caudal, where they form vascular arcs around the edges of the flat vascular lobes already described.
From within this vascular arc to the point of insertion of the caudal rays the inter-radial membrane is found to be traversed by a close plexus of capillary vessels.
This plexus is excavated in a connective tissue which lies between the epidermis of the opposite sides of the fin.
Four sets of vascular trunks pass from the dorsal ; of these the three posterior are the most strongly developed.
They take their rise directly from the caudal vein and caudal portion of the aorta on the dorsal aspect of these vessels.
Each of these vessels upon reaching the base of the dorsal divides into an anterior and posterior trunk.
Each of these trunks gives off in a vertical direction nearly at right angles to themselves a series of inter-radial vessels.
The posterior trunk gives off the greatest number of these interradial vessels.
The auterior main trunk gives off four inter-radial vessels.
The marginal lobes are highly vascular, although not so wide nor so long as those of the caudal fin.
The aual fin receives its vascular supply through four sets of large trunks coming off from the inferior aspect of the caudal vein and aorta.
These trunks pass nearly straight downward toward the margin of the anal, their distal portions only being slightly tortuous.
The posterior or fourth trunk, as are all the others, is bifurcated at the base of the anal into an anterior and posterior branch much in the same way as the similar vessels divide in the dorsal.
The fourth trunk gives off the greatest number of inter-radial vessels.
The second and third give off a smaller number of such inter-radial branches.
The first anal trunk appears to supply a portion of the inter-radial spaces at the anterior edge of the anal fin while branches more or less intimately associated with it, or derived from it, pass to the greatly hypertrophied hind-gut.
At any rate the vascular supply of this curiously hypertrophied part of the alimentary tract is given off close to this vessel.
In whatever way the blood passes through the walls of the hind gut H. G. ; it finds its way at last to a large vascular trunk marked S, lying on the ventro-anterior face of H. G. This large vessel S is evidently the homologue of the sub-intestinal vein in other fishes.
At the anterior end of S large trunks diverge from it, pass around the mid gut and find their way into the liver.
These trunks represent the portal system.
Little that is noteworthy can be made out from a transparent view in regard to the way in which the blood reaches the heart from the jugulars.
Sections indicate that the Cuvierian ducts are very spacious, more so than is represented in the diagram.
The ventricle of the heart H is well developed with thick muscular walls.
The bulbus arteriosus is a simple thickened muscular tube extending forward from H. The homologies and relations of a large trunk ascending obliquely forward and upward, then bending downward and forward, probably meeting its fellow of the opposite side before it traverses the median face of the mid brain is difficult to determine.
A smaller trunk descends from the region over the body toward the eye and probably joins the ophthalmic vessels in that region to finally empty into the basilars and jugulars which pass backward toward the origin of the Cuvierian ducts.
The membrane bones of the skull are already fairly well developed, as are, in fact, the membrane bones throughout the body generally.
The vertebral rings of the vertebral column are already defined, and are separated from each other by considerable inter-vertebral spaces.
Their dorsal and vertical outer margins are gently concave.
The ribs, the neural and hsemal arches are developed and the complicated musculature of the caudal fin is already well marked.
The hypural pieces of the caudal are well-developed in cartilage and a partly membranous matrix.
The pectoral fins are already Avelldeveloped but present as far as I have been able to make out no such vascularization as the others.
The ventrals are still small and undeveloped.
The lateral line system does not seem to be strongly marked at this stage ; the small round pore behind the eye represents its connection with the exterior.
The air bladder is developed and occupies considerable space at the point P in the body cavity.
Just in front of the air bladder is a large highly vascular mass representing the Wolffian body or kidney.
The glandular portion of the Wolffian body is thus seen to be quite anterior in.
position.
Cross-sections show that Wolffian ducts are present behind the region of the Wolffian body as a pair of simple longitudinal canals.
These ducts pass backward parallel with each other as far as the downward flexure of the hind gut H G. At this point they suddenly bend downward and gradually converge so as to meet just before opening to the exterior between the hernia-like protrusion of the lower portion of the hind gut and the anterior margin of the anal fin.
As already stated the hind gut is very much enlarged in trans* verse diameter, as may be seen from the accompanying figure.
Upon being cut open it is found to be filled up with villous or filamentous productions of its lining mucous membrane.
These villi tend to be flattened, and with the widest portion of their bases extending parallel with respect to each other and in conformity with the length of the intestine.
The anal opening A is found on the posterior face of the hernia-like protrusion of the abdominal walL caused by the hypertrophied hind-gut.
The mid-gut is separated, sharply from the hind-gut by a pyloric constriction just a little below and behind P as shown in the diagram.
The mid-gut or gastric portion of the intestinal canal presents no very unusual features except that its internal face is thrown into parallel longitudinal folds, which curve in the direction of the flexure of this part of the intestine which appears to form a loop upon itself.
The function of the inter-radial and marginal plexuses of capillaries of the young of these fishes, as the accompanying figure shows must be in large measure respiratory.
The figure shows the maximum proportional development of the vertical fins, but at a stage about twice the length of the one here figured, the vertical fins begin to become reduced in size so as to approximate their relatively reduced proportions in the adult.
The integuments of the sides of the body now also become highly vascular, which dermal vascularity also seems to disappear before the birth of the young.
The great vascular trunks that especially supply the vertical fins with blood, as shown in the figure, also now atrophy in a measure and become subservient only to the nourishment and metabolism of the tissues of the fins.
The histological changes in the fins of these young viviparously developed fishes are therefore very great in the course of their sojourn in the ovary of the parent.
That the highly vascular fins and the great vascular trunks which supply them, must in a measure subserve a function in such foetal fishes very similar to that of a placenta in a non-deciduate foetal mammal, there can scarcely be any doubt.
