THE INHERITANCE OF MODIFICATIONS DUE TO DISTURBANCES OF THE EARLY STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT ESPECIALLY IN THE JAPANESE DOMESTICATED RACES OF GOLDCARP.
BY JOHN A. RYDER.
The recent experiments in shaking apart the cells produced by the first cleavage in the eggs of Echinoderms by Driesch and of Amphioxus by Wilson as well as the experiments of Roux in the same direction with frogs' eggs show that it is possible for a single oue of the two blastomeres resulting from the first segmentation to produce at once a complete embryo or at any rate to finally reconstitute the missing half by means of what Roux has called postgeneration as in the case of the frogs' eggs.
These experiments leading to the development of two separate embryos from the same single egg have been regarded as so remarkable that they have caused a good deal of discussion.
They are however it seems to me to be regarded as having much in common with phenomena that at first thought seem to be widely distinct from them namely the production of monstrosities in invertebrates and vertebrates.
The occasional duplication of peripheral parts also such as the tail in lizards when broken off and an excess of toes or finrays perhaps may be regarded as belonging ultimately to the same category of phenomena with a similar sec of causes operating to produce them namely profound disturbances of the normal processes of karyokinesis during development or at the moment of the beginning of the regeneration of lost parts.
Weber's experiment reported many years ago proving that the eggs of the common pike Esox ludus could be caused to produce double monstrosities if the recently fertilized ova were violently shaken is well known.
The experience of fishculturists in handling the eggs of Salmonoids is also well known.
A man of very great experience in the fishcultural establishments of AustroHungary informed me some years since that so great was the danger in roughly handling or shaking the ova of the Salmonoids during the very early stages of their development that carelessness in this respect would result in producing monstrosities almost exclusively.
I have myself while employed as an assistant by the U. S. Fish Commission seen batches of salmon brood which were almost entirely composed of fry that had developed as double or triple monsters each with but a single yolk.
The wellknown experiments of Dareste in artificially producing monstrosities during the incubation of bird's eggs are also well known as well as his methods of experiment which consisted in shaking the eggs varnishing a portion of the shell or placing them in an abnormal position upon one end for example during the early days of incubation.
Similar experiments have also been made by others that abundantly confirm the conclusion that abnormal conditions or absolute mechanical disturbances during segmentation are the causes of such duplication of the embryo.
Rauber attacked the problem from a morphological standpoint and indicated in some measure the method according to which the doubling occurred in the germinal disk of the eggs of fishes working upon the blastoderm of the eggs of the Pike Esox.
He showed that the embryonic axis was duplicated or triplicated as the case might be at the border of the blastoderm.
That the distance apart of the two contemporaneously developed embryos along the rim of the blastoderm determined the degree to which their axes would be ultimately fused or distinct when the larval development had been completed.
In the study of a series of double monsters of the common lobster Homarus Americanus I found that some similar law applied in some way but unfortunately the very early stages were not seen so that it could not be formulated with precision.
The evidence for the existence of such a law was however sufficiently complete to warrant certain general deductions since various degrees of fusion were seen which were perfectly parallel to those of fishes except that instead of the ventral aspects being fused where the rudiments of the embryo had been first formed at 180 apart on the blastoderm it was here the dorsal aspects that were fused a fact which is as strictly in conformity with the morphology of the Arthropod series to which the lobster belongs as the fusion of the ventral aspect of the embryo of vertebrates is in conformity with the morphology of the adult vertebrate body.
The discovery of Kleinenberg that the embryos of certain earthworms studied by him were sometimes double and coherent shows that such a method of double development is widely distributed within the series of Bilateralia or bilaterally symmetrical animals.
Such a budding or division in the embryo may indeed be looked upon as somewhat akin to the development of buds or gemmre in the Porifera or the statoblasts of certain freshwater Bryozoa which normally develop double embryos directly from a germinal body.
There may also be a kinship detected in the tendency of Hydrozoa and Scyphozoa to reproduce themselves in this way especially the sedentary or colonial forms.
The tendency of starfishes to bud out branches from their arms is another illustration of the same thing and it has been recently shown that under exceptional conditions the point where an arm of a starfish is budded off may mark the point near where a new mouth and a full complement of arms will appear so as to develop a complete new individual.
As we rise in the scale of organization this tendency to regenerate lost parts becomes more and more restricted to the reproduction of peripheral parts only but the tendency to produce monstrosities in the shape of more or less completely fused embryos due to disturbances of development remains in full force.
Not only is this the fact but I also believe that I have indisputable evidence that an embryo may undergo partial development within the uterus of a mammal when it will be arrested and actual histolysis with consequent destruction and absorption of the embryo takes place.
More remarkable still is the conclusion reached bv von Jherino that certain Armadilloes normally produce several young from a single fertilized ovum.
His view being that in no other way can we explain the envelopment of the entire litter of young of some of the species of these animals in a common chorion.
In this opinion I take it von Jhering has the support of the opinion of authorities as eminent as von Kolliker and H. MilneEdwards.
When certain of the vertebrates such as fishes batrachians and reptiles are injured after adolescence is reached they retain to a limited degree the power to reproduce lost parts.
Not only do they possess this power but they tend to reproduce such parts in duplicate that is the peripheral part is reproduced double and as if diverging from the point of mutilation.
An instance of this that I recall is the case of a fine Amieva in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia had its tail torn off and from the point where the tail was removed two new tails were being produced.
Other equally striking instances are the toes of Salamanders that have been injured.
The Axolotl and its kindred the species of Amblystoma do the sarae thing when the toes are injured or nibbled off by fishes  the tendency is to reproduce them in duplicate or even in triplicate.
The same thing happens when a finray is injured or torn out in the fins of a Malacopterygian fish  the actinotrichia tend to be reproduced in manifold and radiate from the stump of the old ray in a divergent fashion.
This fact I have repeatedly observed as well as the regeneration in situ of the scales where they have been forcibly removed from the fish by accident.
A case of this kind I traced and described some years ago the subject being a fine specimen of the mirrorcarp that had lost one of the large scales of the lateral line.
In this case however there is no duplication of the scale during its regeneration.
It is also a notorious fact that when extra toes or fingers are developed in the human subject or in a mammal they tend to become hereditary.
And the same seems to be the case with birds in the instance of the Dorking fowl amongst domestic breeds.
It is my belief from the evidence presented above that such supernumerary digits have been in the first place produced by disturbances during segmentation or karyokinesis.
While the embryo was developing its dibits in such higher forms and that such disturbances have been registered so to speak as part of the hereditary tendencies of the organism and have thus been handed on to offspring as developmental tendencies.
The tendency to reproduce supernumerary toes in the cat is wellknown.
The same tendency is shown in the disposition to reproduce extra thumbs or toes in certain human families.
The most extraordinary of these duplications is however presented by the double or fantailed races of Japanese Goldfishes where the duplication sometimes extends even to the anal fin so that I have elsewhere been tempted upon the evidence presented by Dr. Watase as to the development of these fishes to put in a plea for the actual realization of an eightlimbed vertebrate a thing against which the learned Professor Haughton of Dublin has argued with his wonted acumen in a still earlier paper touching the utility of the fourlimbed condition of the higher vertebrates.
I believe however now that the key to the mystery of the production of the doubletailed goldfishes is within our reach in the light of the evidence presented above that we can guess how the Japanese went to work to produce their singular breeds of Carassius auratus.
I believe in short that their practice was very simple and that they have probably antedated the practical application of the facts of experimental embryology as known in Europe and our still more western civilization by several centuries.
Since the Japanese records of some of these breeds are very old as well as the fact that the work of the Marquis de la Savigny figuring the breeds of these fishes was published in 1790 we can infer for them an antiquity of at the very least a couple of centuries.
Now as to how the Orientals accomplished the production of doubletailed forms of fishes.
I believe they did this by taking the eggs of the normal species of goldfishes and shaking them or disturbing them in some way as did Professor Weber with the eggs of the pike.
They would thus get some complete double monsters some with two heads and a single tail and some with double tails.
Manifestly the complete double monsters would be unlikely to survive.
Those most likely to survive would be those with only a duplication of the tail.
These being selected and bred would in all probability hand onward the tendency to reproduce the double tail a tendency which could become very fixed and characteristic if judicious selection were maintained by interested fanciers and breeders such as are said to exist in Japan where these fishes of the finest doubletailed races command high prices amongst the wealthy and cultivated classes.
If the remarkable peculiarities of the Japanese Goldfishes were produced as suggested above and there seems to be no more likely method of their origination the whole question of the inheritance of mutilations is reopened from a totally new point of view and one that cannot be assailed by Weismann and his following with much show of success from their present attitude toward these questions.
It is clear however that we have here a most promising field for experimental inquiry and one that should be at once cultivated in a practical way.
That the direction of the regeneration of lost parts may be affected by the plane of mutilation is sufficiently well attested by the experiments of Barfurth on the tails of tadpoles some of which I have successfully repeated.
If the tip of the tail were snipped off exactly at right angles to the axis of the body the tail was regenerated of the normal form and straight backward.
If at an acute angle regeneration took place so that the new tip was directed either upward or downward according as the inclined regenerating cut surface looked upward or downward.
Such facts cannot be dismissed as useless in connection with the problem of inheritance in general if they have any bearing upon the questions raised in connection with the inheritance of mutilations as viewed in the preceding discussion.
It is not unlikely that Barfurth's results do have some bearing upon these questions as here viewed.
If the plaue of mutilation or line of removal of digits affects their direction of growth as seems likely from Barfurth's and my own experiments we know to a certainty that there is only one avenue for the access of new material during the process of regeneration of a digit for example and that is its proximal or basal portion.
Through this basal portion alone can new material reach the digit to build up its distal parts.
If growth and its accompanying karyokineses were interfered with in any way across a narrow line over the stump the regenerative energies would be caused to manifest themselves on either side of that line and the result would be a tendency to reproduce the digits in duplicate beyond the point of mutilation and in a divergent fashion from the basal area through which alone new material could find access by intussusception during the process of regeneration.
We consequently get a mechanophysiological explanation of why it is that doubly reproduced distal parts tend to diverge from each other radially.
The same principle together with concrescence may be invoked as it has been in another form by Rauber to explain the degree of fusion of double or triple monsters produced by shaking mesoblastic ova during their early blastodermic stages of development.
But Eauber's explanation must in this case be supplemented by a consideration of the physical laws of the interfacial and free surfacetensions which condition growth during the development of a thin blastoderm in a meroblastic egg making for selfevident physical reasons the production of completely separate embryos well nigh an impossibility even by shaking or otherwise interfering with development. '
Even if separate germinal disks were developed on a telolecithal egg there is every reason to believe that as segmentation proceeded the two resulting blastoderms would become fused by their edges as the latter advanced over the yolk and approached each other as they necessarily must in order to increase as they do in a geometrical ratio their power of appropriating the stored nutritive mass of yolk.
On a priori grounds and for mechanical reasons therefore the complete separation of the germinal matter of a largeyolked meroblastic egg is impossible.
The total separation of the two first blastomeres of the equally segmenting holoblastic eggs of echinoderms and Ampluoxus on the other hand is easily accomplished by mere violent mechanical interference so that completely distinct and separate but smaller embryos are easily obtainable if such separated blastomeres are allowed to develop under favorable conditions.
As stated in the earlier part of this paper the regenerative power seems in low and primitive forms and also in the very early stages of the highest as shown by von Jhering in the development of Armadilloes by what he calls temnogeny or normaldivision and complete separation of the cells of the fertilized egg to be most completely represented in the early blastomeres or the products of the early segmentations.
In the next grade of organic types Porifera and Coelenterata there appears to be a wider extension upon the whole organism and its parts of this regenerative power.
In bryozoa and echinoderms there is still in many forms more or less of this regenerative power distributed throughout the organism but as specialization proceeds it seems to become less marked and if there is disturbance of the mode of development of the Bilateralia besides the apparently normal consecutive or linear gemmation as in Monotus Myrianida and Autolytus there is devel.
oped a tendency to double the axis so that branched or coherent double individuals arise.
This reaches a most remarkable expression amongst Syllid worms as worked out by Professor Mcintosh and may even extend to an early stage as in the case of the production of double embryos in Lumbricus according to Kleinenberg.
In both the arthropod and vertebrate series disturbances of early embryonic development affecting the order and relations of the karyokinetic processes in the blastoderm are productive of double monstrosities variously fused according to a law which has been to some extent defined by Rauber.
As we proceed in our review of the successively higher groups we find that this purely regenerative power becomes less and less marked.
In some worms for example the head may be regenerated if cut off.
It is doubtful whether this would be possible with even the lowest vertebrate.
In the vertebrates and arthropods or highest Bilateralia the regenerative power is reduced to the power of reproducing lost digits or entire appendages as in Crustacea.
In vertebrates it is finally restricted in fishes batrachians and reptiles to the regeneration of the tail or the distal parts of the extremities in the adult and in the highest of these series namely birds and mammals the power of the adult to regenerate lost distal parts of the extremities is also lost.
Nevertheless there remains in the tolerably advanced embryos of these forms the power to respond in a remarkable way to disturbances of the normal hereditary or regenerative processes involving the distal parts of the extremities such as the digits.
The regenerative powers therefore seem to become diminished with the specialization of a type and to be manifested last of all in the distal ends of the extremities.
The most marked changes may occur in the way of duplication triplication etc. of the axis even in the highest types provided the development or processes of segmentation are disturbed early enough and in some definite way.
The conclusion which is warranted from the whole of the foregoing is that the regenerative power of organisms disappears as we rise in the scale of organization last of all in the peripheral extremital parts.
A further observation is justified which is that the power toprodvce monstrosities or congenital aberrations of development due to external disturbances of segmentation during growth diminishes in the higher forms pari passu with the advance in development.
Finally it may be affirmed with much show of probability that aberrations of development produced by disturbances of the processes of segmentation during growth may become hereditary as illustrated by the probable inheritance of partially duplicated axes in the tails of Japanese goldfishes or of supernumerary digits in many mammals and in Man.
How such new parts originated as here supposed can transmit to the ova of the parent body of which they form a part a tendency to cause them  the new characters  to reappear in the offspring developed from such ova or germs cannot be explained without supposing that the new part of the body of the parent influences at a distance the characters and potentialities of the germinal matterproduced by it in its gonads.
The difficulties in the case of the partly double body of the Japanese Goldfishes are peculiar in that we have to assume that hereditary tendencies are transmitted from a parent body and part of another of each sex making in all tendencies transmitted from two bodies and parts of two others in the course of the ordinary sexual reproduction of the doubletailed species since there cannot be the slightest doubt that in this case we have to deal with partially double monsters as is proved by their morphology with normally developed reproductive powers.
I confess to an utter inability to see how this can be done by means of gemmules the oldest hypothesis of heredity first formulated by Democritus then restated in a more modern form by Buffon then by Erasmus Darwin in the Zoonomia and lastly by Charles Darwin.
This doctrine therefore has a very respectable pedigree but it is strange that none of the later writers credit their predecessors with having entertained similar opinions.
But to recur to my point it is clearly certain that the partially double body of the parent in this case must have influenced the germs it inclosed at some time in the history of the race or at the time the latter was originated by the Orientals.
The first partially double monstrous pair of goldfishes to have offspring must have been reared somewhere in the East  whether in Corea China or Japan does not matter.
The fact that they reproduced themselves is indisputable.
That they were first produced by artificial interference with or mutilation of the normal processes of their early development becomes in the light of what has been said above a conclusion of the utmost probability.
Weismann and his followers can take either horn of this dilemma.
The inevitable conclusions are  first that new parts of the parent body at a distance do at once in the first generation influence the germcells inclosed by such a parent body  secondly the probability of the inheritance of the effects of certain mutilations injuries interferences or displacement of parts during the early stages of development amounts almost to a certainty.
Moreover whereas the separation of the early cells or blastomeres in certain eggs such as those of Armadilloes SeaUrchins and the Lancelet and Frog is possible the egg in these cases being essentially holoblastic at the time of the first two cleavages two or more completely separate embryos can be developed.
The conditions of development it must be borne in mind in the higher series where a blastoderm is developed closely and firmly adherent to  the very large nutritive yolk are very different from the foregoing.
So different indeed are the conditions of development in these latter meroblastic forms that it would be extremely improbable that entirely separate and multiple embryos could be developed from their ova.
At most only such mechanical disturbances would be possible as would lead to a more or less complete duplication triplication etc.
of embryos.
That the effects of such embryonic mutilations or interferences may be hereditarily transmitted will hardly be admitted by theautimutilationists but to evade the force of these facts is impossible.
The coherence of the embryos together in meroblastic eggs conditioned as it is by the interfacial and free surfacetensions between the blastoderm and yolk is it seems to me plainly indicative of the indisputable conclusion that mutilational influences operating upon meroblastic ova are themselves influenced by mere physical conditions and forces and that even these leave a reminiscence of their effects upon the germs the development of which they thus indirectly affect.
What again shall be said in such cases of the effect of such external or physical agencies or conditions in modifying the development of future generations as seems to be proved by the history of the domesticated races of Japanese Goldfishes
Weismann must now own if the preceding views can be sustained that he is beaten upon his own ground and also admit that he has been in error from the beginning as to the nontransmission to the germs of characters that have been acquired by the body of the parent.
The domesticated races of Japanese Goldfishes outstrip every known form of domesticated animal in the extent to which they have been modified and it is therefore strange that Mr. Darwin should have devoted so little consideration to them in his works In one of his botanical works Mr. Darwin makes the suggestion that the bilateral halves of the Bilateralia may have arisen by longitudinal concrescence of two similar individuals of opposite sex.
This suggestion of his as to the origin of the bilaterally symmetrical condition may be dismissed as exceedingly improbable and unfortunate and as in direct conflict moreover with the known mode of the development of monsters with double axes.
Such monstrous races as is proved by the morphology of the adult Japanese Goldfishes their known analogies to the development of double vertebrate monsters have been produced almost beyond a shadow of doubt by mutilational interference with the early processes of normal development and this monstrous mode of development has become hereditary.
The procedure by means of which the Orientals originated their peculiar races of Goldfishes I believe was more exactly as follows  After the blastoderm had spread over about onethird or more of the surface of the yolk the eggs were shaken or violently disturbed.
This proceeding would cause the production of one or more new embryonic axes at the rim of the blastoderm near the original axis but the new axes would not develop a head but would as a result of the operation of the principle of concrescence soon fuse with the caudal end of the original or firstformed embryonic axis.
This would cause a doubling more or less complete of the caudal end or urosome of the embryo.
In this way it may be supposed that the partially double urosome of these singular fishes was developed so far at least as to duplicate the hypural system of bones of the tail and consequently the tail itself while this doubling would also manifest itself farther forward so as to sometimes double the anal fins as well.
The caudal part of the notochordal axis is rarely doubled though there is an evident tendency to do so in some individuals.
The great exaggeration in the development of the fins in Japanese Goldfishes especially the caudal is however not wholly accounted for by the theory of the inheritance of tendencies toward monstrous development.
Nor is the obvious degeneration of certain parts of the muscular system in some of the races thus accounted for.
Nor can we again account for the differences in the relative lengths of the intestine in the different races on such a hypothesis.
Only one structure the squamation and the number of myotomes seems to have remained constant in the course of the great modifications which these fishes have undergone.
I find that the number of rows of scales in the lateral line in all the races I have studied presents practically no variation  that is the number of scales in the lateral line varies only from 25 to 26.
The number of myotomes is also constant in all the races and corresponds to the number of transverse rows of scales.
In order to make the facts stated above somewhat more easy of apprehension I have tabulated the result of a series of careful measurements based upon three races viz 1 the normal or common goldfish Carassius auratus  2 a longbodied doubletailed variety of great beauty which has been reared in the aquaria of Dr. W. H. Wahl who has kindly let me have some dead individuals for study  3 a shortbodied doubletailed race with a very protuberant abdomen which were imported from Japan and of which dead examples were furnished me by Mr. W. P. Seal.
I found that the head in all cases was the least variable part of the animal.
I have accordingly regarded it as a standard of comparison in a general final table.
The following tables will explain themselves and give absolute measurements in millimetres of the same parts of the three races in parallel columns.
By urosome is meant the part of the trunk behind the body cavity and between the latter and the base of the caudal fin.
I have compared the musculature of the abdomen and urosome to a frustum of a cone with an elliptical cross section.
In this way it is possible to show taking the absolute measurements in connection 86 I.
1893.
Total length of head body and urosome.
Length of body.
Length of head.
Length of intestine.
Width of end of urosome.
1 Common race.
90 mm.
62 mm.
28 mm.
364 mm.
15 mm.
2 Longbodied Japanese double tailed 74 mm.
51 mm.
23 mm.
213 mm.
10 mm.
race.
3 Shortbodied Japanese double tailed 47 mm.
28 mm.
19 mm.
226 mm.
7 mm.
race.
with other facts that there has been a process of degeneration at work in reducing the proportional volume of the musculature of the body and urosome in the doubletailed races.
Table II gives the height of this frustum of a cone to which I have compared the musculature of the body as well as the major diameters of the base and apex of the frustum in millimetres for each race in absolute measurement.
II.
Length of caudal fin.
Distance from vent to caudal.
Width of base of muscular frustum of a cone.
Height of muscular frustum.
Width of a p e x of muscular frustum of a cone.
Common race.
36 mm.
25 mm.
37 mm.
62 mm.
15 mm.
Longbodied Japanese doubletailed race.
80 mm.
19 mm.
28 mm.
51 mm.
10 mm.
Shortbodied Japanese doubletailed race.
36 mm.
10 mm.
23 mm.
28 mm.
7 mm.
In a third table I have attempted to represent the proportions of the several parts to each other but from tables I and II I obtain data for a more general and final fourth table in which the individuals are supposed to be of the same age and more nearly of the same size and weight than was the material at my disposal.
1893.
III.
87 Ratio of he a d to length o f intestine.
Ratio of to t a 1 length to length of intestine.
Ratio of length of the body to the length o f the intestine.
Ratio of width of urosome to total length of head body and urosome.
Ratio of total length of the head body and urosome to the length of the tail.
Common race.
113 1  445 1  585.
16 251 Longbodied Japanese race.
1  925 1285 142 174 188 Shortbodied Japanese race.
1  1175 146 18 1  671 1331 Taking the head as the least variable portion of the three races and assigning to it an arbitrary value of 50 mm.
in a hypothetical individual by dividing the actual lengths of the other parts in millimetres by their own length of head in millimetres then multiplying this product by 50 I get a new set of values in which the parts are in the proportion of the preceding table but in which the individuals are in the case of each race of about the same size age and condition of volume and consonant with the modifications that have been suffered by each one.
This table is given below and from it it is possible to plot the outlines of the three hypothetical frustums of cones that will represent approximately the condition of development of the musculature of the body and tail of the three races as seen from the side.
IV.
Distance of anus from base of caudal.
Common race.
Longbodied Japanese race.
Shortbodied Japanese race.
Length of intestine.
Length ofhead.
Height of frustum.
D i a m eter of maj or axis of base of frustum.
D i a m eter of maj or axis of apex of frustum.
650 mm.
50 1107 mm.
662 mm.
24'3 mm.
4625 mm.
50 1108 mm.
65 mm.
217 mm.
5875 mm.
50 7365 mm.
613 mm.
184 mm.
42 mm 41 mm.
263 mm.
88 1893.
A.
Outline of frustum of cone representing the musculature of body and urosome of common race of Goldcarp.
B.
Same of longbodied Japanese race reared by Dr. Wahl.
C. Same of shortbodied Japanese race.
These tables and the appended diagram based upon them it seems to me make it tolerably certain that there has actually be en a marked degeneration in the relative proportional development of the volumes of the musculature of the body aud urosome or tail in two of the three races examined.
Oth e r facts however fortify this conclusion very strongly.
The most important being the fact that the vertical rows of scales just behind the abdomen on the sides of the urosome of the shortbodied race overlap each other f a r more extensively than do those in the other two.
When we come to examine the muscular somites underlying these rows of greatly overlapping scales in the shortbodied race we actually find them markedly shorter than those some distance behind or those some distance in front of them.
This seems to me to prove conclusively that there has been actual degeneration of the muscular system of the body or trunk and that this degeneration is especially well marked in the shortbodied race.
The intestine in the latter is also found to be proportionally longer than in the normal common or in the longbodied doubletailed races.
This increase in the length of the intestine is also indicated by the very protuberant abdomen of the shortbodied race.
This shortbodied race with a protuberant abdomen I am informed by breeders is a very voracious feeder thus not belying the indications of its large abdomen and proportionally long intestine.
It is also probable that the bodies of the vertebra
are shorter in the shortbodied than in the longbodied races.
This point I have however neglected to determine.
I believe in short that the degenerative changes in the muscular system of the Japanese Goldfishes is connected with their continued restraint to small aquaria for many generations and that their muscular system has degenerated through disuse.
That on the other hand the failure to be able to expend energy in the production of motion of the body in the water has reacted in other ways upon their organization and especially upon the growth of the fins.
This has gone on until in some of the races it would actually be possible to envelop almost the entire head and body in the enormous double caudal.
In fact these members grow so long that they become an actual hindrance to rapid swimming and are of less use in propelling the fish in the water so that their swimming becomes very slow and seemingly performed with some difficulty as compared with the normal form.
All the fins partake of this tendency to become extended  the pectorals enlarge and lengthen and the dorsal in some races becomes so long that it falls over and overhangs one side of the body.
Fishculturists also tell me that it is useless to try to keep these races with other species of fishes in ponds because the more active carnivorous forms will soon bite off and destroy the long graceful and lacelike caudals of these helplessly modified Japanese races.
These races have been so modified by man's agency that they have become absolutely unfitted to successfully battle for existence if left to themselves.
Their sluggish habits have been purposely cultivated by Oriental fishfanciers.
To such an extreme of sluggishness have they been brought that owing to their monstrous development they are sometimes no longer able to maintain their equilibrium in the water but stand on the head or tail in the very small aquaria in which they are kept and in which they would become asphyxiated were it not for the precaution taken by the Japanese to introduce into the same 7 aquarium small harmless but very active fishes of other species in order that the water be kept circulating and thus aerated for the benefit of the helplessly modified but most valued tenant.
These circumstances give it seems to me a clew to the explanation not only of the degeneration of the musculature under domestication owing to its enforced disuse but also some indication of what are the causes of the extension of the fins.
The material saved from expenditure in muscular effort may be expended in growth in another direction and the most advantageous would be that which would increase the surface of the fins and thus render them useful in dermal respiration.
The large vessels and numerous capillaries in the huge tails of very fine specimens of the Kinyiko race that I have seen indicate that the caudal fin may possibly serve in a very important way as an adjunct to branchial respiration.
The question therefore arises have not the immense fins of the Japanese doubletailed goldfishes been developed partially in physiological response to artificial conditions of respiration that were not as favorable as those enjoyed by their wild congeners
That the dorsal anal and caudal fins may be so modified as to minister in an important way to the needs of respiration is proved by the development of the richly vascular and exaggerated vertical fins of the embryos of foetal Embiotocoid fishes as long ago shown by Blake and fully confirmed and elaborated in greater detail by the writer.
It is also a remarkable fact that the fins and tail of the larvse of the double longtailed races do not show such characters at once but it is not until long after the larval stages are passed that the breeder can be certain of rearing a specimen with a fine long tail from any given young fish.
The fishes are usually upward of two inches in length before the breeder can be pretty sure that the young or halfgrown individuals will develop a great length of tail.
This fact shows that the long tail was originally acquired very late in ontogenetic development and is not a larvally apparent differentiation.
This circumstance is also unique amongst fishes and for that matter almost the exact reverse of what usually takes place since the young of many marine fishes have certain parts of the fins very greatly produced only to be absorbed before adolescence is reached.
This is the case with the larvse of Lophius and Fierasfer.
Only amongst higher animals do we find secondary sexual characters produced at a late period of growth such as the deciduous horns of the Deer family or defensive organs such as the horns of the ox and antelope families which are produced at a relatively late period.
The fact that the very long fins of the full grown individuals of the doubletailed races of Goldcarp are only fully developed at a very late period of the growth of the animal is in harmony with the view that the hypertrophy of those organs is associated with a correlative degeneration of the muscular system of the trunk and a possible use of these structures with their great amount of surface as respiratory organs in the restricted and badly aerated tanks and aquaria in which they have been bred for centuries.
Since the above was written Mr. W. P. Seal has sent me a series of the  telescopeeyed  doubletailed race of Goldcarp.
This together with the materials previously supplied by the same gentleman and Dr. Wahl enables me to greatly extend my comparisons and also as will be seen below to add some very remarkable facts to our knowledge of these singular domesticated races of fishes as compared with their wild congeners long since introduced into the Schuylkill and now native to that river.
The most astonishing peculiarity of the  telescopeeyed  race is the development of the eyes.
The latter are very much larger proportionally than in the common or in any other races so that the eyes actually protrude from the orbits in a most grotesque manner.
The size of the eyes on opposite sides of the head even seem to vary somewhat and in the extent to which they protrude from the orbit.
In some specimens the eyeballs are a third more in diameter across the equator than in either the common or the other doubletailed races.
A broad band or ring of integument passes all round the equator of the eyeball joining the cornea distally and the margin of the orbit proximally.
The most surprising fact of all however is the shape of the eyeball in the telescopeeyed race in that the eyeball tends to become greatly elongated in the direction of its optic axis.
Sometimes the difference between the axial and equatorial diameter is as much as three millimetres constituting an extremely myopic form of eyeball.
The form of the eyeball in the common race is flat or hypermetropic in character.
A gradual passage from the hypermetropic form of eyeball to the myopic is shown in the following table as based upon actual approximate measurements of the eyeballs of individuals of the three races.
92 V. 1893.
Races.
Total length of specimen.
Equatorial diameter of eyeball.
A.xial diameter of eyeball.
Common.
130 mm.
7 mm.
5 mm.
Short bodied.
55 mm.
5 mm.
4 mm. 
Telescopeeyed.
No.
1.
63 mm.
6 mm.
6 mm.
No.
2.
70 mm.
6 mm.
9 mm.
The size and shape of the globular lens in the  telescopeeyed  race is not appreciably different from that of the other races with smaller eyeballs.
It would therefore seem impossible for the image formed by the lens of a distant object in the telescope eyed  race to be thrown upon the retina at all consequently the condition is one of nearsightedness or of an optical adjustment for very near objects.
The conditions of life of these races in small tanks or aquaria where they are bred under conditions of the greatest protection from man would in their restricted quarters actually foster the development of nearsightedness and any variations in that direction would actually tend to be preserved.
There is a condition of disuse also to be taken into account in this process since these fishes no longer need their eyes with which to watch the approach of their enemies but only to look out for their food which is supplied to them by their human friends and protectors.
To what extent this factor has been of service in altering the shape of the eyeballs it is of course as yet impossible to state.
The preceding table V however makes the gradual passage from the hypermetropic or flat eye of the normal race to that of the myopic or long eye of the  telescopeeyed  race sufficiently obvious as the series of measurements given of the eyeballs of the different races proves.
The fact that a race of fishes may become myopic as would seem to be indicated by the foregoing data is most surprising and affords a case parallel in some respects with that of the human race itself but in the case of these fishes the myopic tendency has probably been further developed by the intentional selection of myopic individuals by breeders and fanciers for breeding purposes.
A nearsighted fish is certainly an anomaly and the name  telescope  fish in allusion to the protruding eyeballs becomes a misnomer since the form of the eye is distinctly myopic and shortsighted and not hypermetropic or farsighted as required of an optical organ having telescopic capabilities.
These facts go still further to support my assertion that these races of Goldcarp are the most profoundly modified of any known race of domesticated animal organisms.
No other domesticated animal as far as I am aware shows such pronounced evidence of becoming myopic.
These  telescope eyed  fishes also show evidences of maldevelopment of the dorsal fins and a tendency to have the vertebral column curved downward behind in an abnormal way producing the appearance of a  hunchbacked condition.
Such defective development of the dorsal together with a hunched back is also not infrequent amongst the other shortbodied and longbodied doubletailedraces.
Such defective development of the dorsal accompanied by a hunched back is also found in partially monstrous trout some of which have been recently figured by a writer in Forest and Stream vol.
xxxix p. 562 1892 from specimens supplied by Mr. Creveling which measured from 6J to 8 inches in length.
Since these changes in the development of trout are well known to be associated with injuries inflicted during the early stages of development the case that I have made out for the origin of the doubletailed races of Goldfish is thus markedly strengthened by similar facts derived from an entirely distinct family the Salmonidse.
All of the foregoing evidence consequently compels me to abandon the view entertained by me in an earlier paper 1 respecting the origin of the doubletailed races of Goldcarp in which it was suggested that the doubling of the anal and caudal was a reversion to a remote ancestral condition in fishes in which paired lateralfin folds extended for the whole length of the body.
This view involves the conception that the single caudal of existing fishes Avas primitively a double organ which has been produced by the concrescence of a pair of lateral caudals a doctrine which it is quite impossible to reconcile with the morphology of the tails of normal fishes or that of the tails of the doubletailed races of Goldcarp.
What to my mind makes this view still more improbable is the fact that I find the double tails of these  telescopeeyed  forms completely divided 1 An eightlimbed Vertebrate.
American Naturalist September 1887 pp.
862863. up to the vertebral axis so that morphologically speaking there are parts of two distinct axes or individuals present in each specimen.
This evidence together with that respecting the defective development of the dorsal and the tendency toward a hunchbacked and deformed condition perfectly parallel to the conditions seen in traumatically deformed trout seems to me to almost conclusively prove that the doubletailed races of Goldcarp have arisen in the first place as a consequence of injuries inflicted during the early development of the eggs and embryos and that the effects of these embryonic traumatisms have become hereditarily transmissible as the facts seem to indicate.
1893.
95
