ON THE BATRACHIA AND REPTILIA OF THE PLAINS AT LATITUDE 36 30'.
BY E. D. COPE.
The following species were obtained by the writer and Professor A. P. Brown of the University of Pennsylvania at the following localities Fort Supply in northwest Oklahoma Miami and Mobeetie in the northeastern part of the Panhandle of Texas and Hennessy in central Oklahoma.
For the greater number of species obtained at Fort Supply I am indebted to Dr. Corbusier U. S. A. whose material aid I hereby gratefully acknowledge.
BATRACHIA.
Amblystoma tigrinum Greeii.
Fort Supply  Hennessy.
Bufo lentiginosis americanus Loec.
Fort Supply.
Chorophilus triseriatus clarkii Bd.
Abundant and noisy in pools near the Cimmaron River at Tucker Oklahoma.
Similar to the individuals reported by me from Clarendon Texas.
1 REPTILIA.
Cistudo ornata Agass.
Fort Supply.
Cinosternum flavescens Agass.
Professor Brown found a living specimen of this species about six miles west of Mobeetie Texas.
This is much the most northern locality recorded for the species.
Chelydra serpentina L. Hennessy Oklahoma Territory.
Crotaphytus collaris Say.
Fort Supply and Miami.
Holbrookia maculata B.
 G. Fort Supply and Mobeetie.
1 Proceedings Academy Natural Sciences of Philada. 1892 p. 333.
Phrynosoma cornutum Hasl.
Fort Supply Mobeetie and Hennessy.
Cnemidophorus sexlineilus L. Fort Supply and Miami.
Ophisaurus ventralis Baud.
Hennessy.
Ophibolus doliatus sysputus Cope.
Hennessy Oklahoma Territory.
Ophibolus getulus sayi Ilolbr.
Mobeetie.
Pityophis sayi sayi Schleg.
Fort Supply.
Coluber spiloides D.  B. Fort Supply.
Bascanicum flagelliforme testaceum Say.
Fort Supply.
Diadophis amabilis docilis B.
 G. Hennessy Oklahoma Territory.
Heterodon nasicus nasicus B.
 G. Fort Supply.
Tropidoclonium lineatum Hallow.
Hennessy.
Eutaenia elegans marciana B. AG.
Fort Supply.
Crotalaphorus catenatus edwardsii B.
 G. Mobeetie and Hennessy.
These localities extend the range of this species.
It is characteristic of the sandy country that extends from Mobeetie eastward and which is also seen about Hennessy in central Oklahoma.
Crotalus confluentus Say.
The Staked Plain west of Mobeetie.
GROWTH CHANGES OF THE RADULA IN LANDMOLLUSKS.
BY DR. V. STERKI.
The radula or lingual membrane of the glossophorous mollusca has been most assiduously studied being a very attractive and interesting object in itself and a valuable character for systematic distinctions.
Its features in the land mollusca of America have been investigated by W. G. Binney  x but thus far the adult animals only have been considered and conclusions regarding the morphology of the teeth have been based chiefly upon these.
Of the development of the radula and its changes with advancing age very little is known.
The writer published some years ago a short article on the subject 2 but the considerations then advanced prove to be quite insufficient.
During the last few months a number of species have been examined with special reference to these changes and the results prove to be of unexpected value.
The subject has been studied from a morphological standpoint only.
For histological details the publications of Koelliker Semper A. Ruecker and others must be consulted.
The special cases to be described in detail below may be more readily understood by attention to the following general considerations.
If we carefully examine a well prepared and extended radula of a young specimen it will be seen that in the anterior or older part which was formed however by the animal when younger a transverse row contains fewer teeth than a row in the posterior or more lately formed part.
In other words new teeth one or more new longitudinal rows are added.
The new teeth are at first mere traces resembling the outermost marginals in general form being small roundish nodules transverse or longitudinally elongated plates which by gradual changes in each succeeding transverse row develop into true marginal teeth.
At the same time it may be found that there are in a transverse row at the anterior one or more laterals fewer than in a row at the posterior part  and a closer JTerr.
Moll.
U. S. Vol.
V. and Jaw and Dentition of Pulmonate Mollusks Annals N. Y. Acad of Sci. Vol.
III.
2 Altersverschiedenheiten der Radula bei Hyalinia Nachrichtsbl.
d. Deutschen Malak.
Gesellschaft 1882 p. 172177. attention will show that in a certain longitudinal row at the margin of the  central field a transition tooth gradually transforms into a well shaped lateral a marginal into a transition tooth and finally in turn into a lateral.
In these few lines the development and transformation of the radula is briefly outlined.
This organ is not as has generally heen supposed always of the same formation number of teeth etc. in a given species and only smaller in the young examples but there are actually fewer transverse rows in the young and fewer teeth in each row.
Moreover the teeth at first are of very simple form and by gradual changes by replacement they assume their final shape.
The transformation is never simple but is accomplished through one or several intermediate stages sometimes widely different  and moreover the process differs widely in the various species and groups.
The general considerations above presented are based upon the examination of the few species with which the present communication deals.
This paper must be regarded as the beginning of a long series of examinations which should comprise all species.
Such a research will doubtless give results not only highly interesting in themselves but also of great taxonomic value.
Certain characters of the radula which are very indistinct in the adult or even overlooked by careful observers become of characteristic value in the light gained by the examination of the earliest stages of growth.
In the embryonal animal we find forms of teeth present then and there only disappearing entirely in postembryonal life  so we may properly speak of a true metamorphosis of the radula.
The species examined with reference to this metamorphosis are as follows Limax campestris Say  Zonitoides arborens Say  Z. ligerus Say Zonitoides sp.
undet.
from Tennessee Z. suppressus Say Patula striatella Anth.
 altemata Say  solitaria Say Polygyra Triodoptis tridentata Say  P. Sienotrema hirsuta Say.
Of most of these I had no embryos at hand for examination but very young specimens.
Limax campestris Say.
PL 10.
This species and probably all of the genus are very favorable subjects for our purpose since oviposition is continued throughout the season so that ova young adolescent and adult examples may be found and compared at almost any time.
The ova are not usually deposited in clusters consisting of great numbers as in most other 390 proceedings of the academy of 1893. land molluscabut singly or few aggregated.
They are at first not globular but distinctly ellipsoidal the shell being perfectly glassy and transparent so that yolk division and the formation and development of the embryo may be observed through it.
The buccal body and radula develop rather rapidly.
In an embryo taken from the ovum about 25 mm.
long when extended not quite mature with the caudal bladder still rather large but the heart formed and regularly contracting the shell measured about 035 mm.
long.
The radula was 035 mm.
long and had as many as 34 transverse rows of teeth.
In the first of them there were 3 teeth the central and a lateral on either side appearing as thin barely visible plates or mere traces O 3  in fig.
1.
Other specimens showed the same more distinct as represented in fig.
VI.
In the following transverse rows they are larger and rapidly develop in shape while at the margin new teeth of the same character are added at first with each row then at greater and greater intervals so that in the radula mentioned above the formula was 12C12 in the twentyfifth transverse row.
The development of the radula proceeds comparatively very fast in this and other species faster than the growth of the animal so that even very young specimens have the radula far advanced and show nothing more of the earliest formed teeth.
The addition of new teeth is not always regular and symmetrical on both sides  thus the fifth longitudinal row may begin at the sixth transverse row on one side and with the seventh on the other so that the formula for the sixth would then be 5c4.
Not all of the teeth are formed and transformed in the same way in this and other species as may be seen by the figures.
But Limax campestris and other LimacoZonitidce and Helicidce show such new and unexpected features that they must be considered more in detail.
For a better understanding and easier reference the following table gives the particulars of a series of the specimens examined all of them except two being represented in figs.
IV on PL 10.
Enibryo 2'0 mm.
long  radula 0'3 mm.
long with 27 transverse rows.
Fig.
1.
Embryo 2'5 mm.
long  radula 0'35 mm.
long with 34 transverse rows.
Animal 3'0 mm.
long  radula 0'55 mm.
long with 56 transverse rows.
Fig.
2.
Animal 3'5 mm.
long  radula 0'72 mm.
long with 65 transverse rows.
Fig.
3.
Animal 7 mm.
long  radula 1'15 mm.
long with 86 transverse rows.
Fig.
4.
Animal 15 mm.
long  radula 2'24 mm.
long with 104 transverse rows.
Fig.
5.
Animal 27 mm.
long  radula 2'72 mm.
long with 105 transverse rows.
3 They were first overlooked and afterward designated as O in the original drawing of which the present is a copy.
THE CENTRAL TEETH.
The central tooth is first formed as a simple roundish or oval nodule with a blunt point directed backward fig.
I and VI rapidly increasing in length in the following rows.
At the same time one or two somewhat irregular side cusps appear on either side which on about the eighth tooth become more constant more marked and single on each side.
There are however occasional exceptions as shown in the tenth of fig.
VI where on the right 4 side there are again two side cusps.
Thus it attains its final shape but is somewhat unsymmetrical and so it remains not only in one specimen but as a rule in all see figs.
IIVI.
This is also the case in other species.
In some individuals the right side cusp is more posterior in others the left.
It early becomes noticeable that the central tooth stands more posteriorly than the laterals on either side of it as represented in fig.
VI.
Comparatively early the plate of attachment extends backward at first quite small barely noticeable and only on the side bearing the anterior sidecusp but later it extends on both sides.
These facts make it evident that the central tooth is simple primarily not formed by the coalescence of two original laterals as has been supposed.
THE LATERAL TEETH.
An adult specimen of Limax campestris has about 11 to 18 5 lateral teeth.
And to my surprise I found that although they are exactly alike in their final shape they are formed in two widely different ways  1.
The 6 or 7 mesial laterals on each side first appear as thin simple transverse nearly rectangular plates each as a rule preceded by a short nodulelike trace see figs.
I and VI.
They soon become longer at their inner ends more triangular and the mesodont forms being at first short and blunt but immediately growing longer 4 Right and left are here given as they appear under the microscope.
5 These limits are exceptionally wide and may be considerably narrowed by subsequent careful observations.
The specimens with fewer laterals may very likely be immature.
In the slugs there is no definite criterion of maturity except probably in the genital organs which should be consulted in eveiy case.
W. G.
Binney found the tooth formula to be c. 18'22 in one specimen c. 1125 in another  I counted c. 14xT31 in au individual 27 mm.
long but still probably not fully mature.
more slender sharp pointed and spinelike.
At the same time 2 or 3 or even 4 smaller cusps are formed on the outer side and one an endodont or sometimes two cusps on the inner so that there are typically 4 or 5 sometimes 6 or even 7 cusps on a tooth see fig.
VI first lateral in the second and fifth transverse rows. 
This peculiar formation of the inner group of laterals is found in the embryonal or larval stage of the animal only  and in order to have an appropriate name for this form of tooth we may properly term it echinate.
The teeth passing through the echinate stage gradually again change in form  the body of the tooth becomes longer the mesodont loses its spinelike form becoming wider and its free cutting point shorter  the endodont becomes more coalescent with the mesodont with a short and less acute point  but it remains constant being visible in all specimens in different stages of growth which were examined from this locality.
6 Further modifications are that one or two of the distal cusps disappear and the one or two remaining are transformed into the single ectodont of the adult conf.
fig.
VI the first lateral in the eighth to eleventh transverse rows moreover the plate of attachment begins to be prolonged backward at first being very thin and small barely visible.
The outcome of this series of changes is the perfect lateral tooth of the adult Limax.
All of the forms above described may be seen in one transverse row as represented in the fifteenth row of fig.
I and the different stages of transformation are shown in every longitudinal row of the same figure and fig.
VI  but it must be added that the transverse rows especially in the anterior part of the radula are closer together than represented in the drawing in which they are separated for the sake of distinctness  and the cusps reach further backward over the body of each following tooth.
The individual teeth are fully as wide in the front part of the radula as more posteriorly.
2.
The distal laterals are evolved through other intermediate stages much resembling those undergone by the later aculeate marginals as illustrated in figs.
IIV. Fig.
II represents at A the thirtieth at B the fortyfifth transverse row of teeth from a spec6 It may be noted here that in the persistence of the endodont Limax campest ris offers no distinctive character from Limax agrestis Linn.
 and it may be added that in drawings made in 1882 of the radula of Limax tenellus Nils and L. cinercus Lister from the Swiss Alps the endodont is distinctly shown.
imeii which had been hatched a few days.
This radula measured 072 nun.
long and was in the posterior part 028 mm.
wide.
It has 65 transverse rows of teeth numbering 7 r7 in front IOScSIO in the posterior part  so that the new longitudinal rows formed during its growth are 11 on either side.
The first transverse row of this radula corresponds approximately to the twelfth in fig.
I or VI thus the thirtieth to the fortysecond the fortyfifth to the fiftyseventh of the whole series  the teeth of about the 11 first formed transverse rows were cast off.
All teeth present in fig.
II would become typical laterals in the adult animal.
They are primarily transverse bars  at the inner end of each bar the mesodont is formed at first quite small and then two or threee ectodonts appear which as the mesodont grows come to stand on the latter  figs.
II 45 1311  III 13 with the exception of one which remains upon the common reflection and is transformed into the final ectodont.
Of the endodont not a trace is present originally  and it forms only later when the tooth passes through the intermediate or ' ' transition ' ' stage to become a true lateral.
The consequent stages may be seen in comparing the teeth with corresponding numbers in figs.
II T  thus tooth 15 is shown from its beginning almost to full maturity  and the figures give a better idea of the changes than any description.
A main factor in the development of the tooth is the growth of the plate of attachment forward and backward from the body of the tooth.
THE MARGINAL TEETH.
The marginals although much resembling the outer laterals in a certain stage are somewhat different from the first.
Instead of being a transverse bar the base of attachment is longitudinally elongated as seen in figs.
Ill 2S  IV 40 41  and V 45 46.
The aculeate mesodont is at first very small but it grows rapidly and is at once directed obliquely inward.
The marginals are not all alike.
Those toward the inside are seen quite early to bear ectodonts fig.
Ill 2027.
The ectodont becomes rather large but subsequently disappears fig.
V 25.
There is however a decided irregularity in this character for in the same longitudinal row there may be teeth with and others without an ectodont fig.
IV 30.
The distal marginals seem always to be simple without an ectodont fig.
IV and V.
It may be noted for 26 comparison that in Limax tenellus Nils. all 32 marginals were found to have a distinct outer cusp but on the marginals of L. dnereus Lister about 130 on each side no ectodonts were seen.
A similar formation of the earliest teeth will probably be found in other Limaces and in such Zonitidce as Hyalinia radiatula Gray petrophila Bid. capsella Gld. etc. species in which the laterals bear distinct endodonts.
Zonitoides arboreus Say.
PI.
11 figs.
I II.
No embryo of this species was obtained but a very young specimen with shell and soft parts nearly colorless the former measuring 11 mm.
diameter with IV whorls.
The radula fig.
I was 039 mm.
long and had 4S transverse rows of which however some of the youngest at the posterior end could not be clearly seen.
Here there are 7 c7 teeth three of which are rather well formed laterals.
Very few rows and teeth could have been lost from the front end of the radula and the first present in the specimen examined were evidently of primitive shape and a type entirely different from that of Limax rather resembling those of Patula striatella couf.
fig.
VIII.
The central teeth have a wide short base or body with a distinct mesodont and at least quite early a side cusp on each side.
Comparatively soon the plate of attachment is seen posteriorly though very small.
The laterals about 5 in the adult are wide transverse plates somewhat irregular longer in the mesial half with a short wide blunt mesodont gradually becoming longer and more slender and 2 or 3 small cusps in place of the later ectodont.
No trace of an endodont is seen.
As the teeth without much change gain their definite shape the plates of attachment also develop.
Fig.
II represents the radula of a nearly adult specimen the shell having a diameter of 43 mm.
The radula is 105 mm.
long 035 wide and has 77 transverse rows of 175 c. 5 '17 teeth.
Only the first marginal bears an ectodont.
Another example of 45 mm.
diameter had a radula 133 mm.
long 045 wide with 191x5c. 5x119 teeth.
Another of a peculiar form from Alabama gave the formula 201x4c. 4x1 20.
Embryonic specimens remain to be examined and the earliest form of the central and inner lateral teeth ascertained.
Zonitoides ligerus Say.
PL 11 Hus.
III.
IV.
We have in Pennsylvania and Ohio a very small form measuring 910 ram.
diameter which has been considered Z. ligerus although with some doubt.
Besides other differential characters there are two accessory glands near the head of the dart sac while W. G. Binnev found only one in typical ligerus.
No embryo has been secured thus far.
The smallest examples found measured about 3 mm.
in diameter  and the radula of one of these is represented in fig.
Ill having 20c 20 teeth of which o are perfectly formed laterals and the 7th and 8th nearly so the latter corresponding with the loth of an adult and the transition tooth 9 to 14.
At least 913 then of the younger specimen will be transformed into laterals.
In either example all the teeth showing the transition from the aculeate marginals to the laterals have been represented in my figures 147 in III 1711 in IV 7 so that the transformation can immediately be seen by comparing the teeth bearing the same numbers.
We specially notice first the total absence of endodonts in all teeth just as in Z. arboreus  second the absence of ectodouts in the distal newly formed aculeate teeth  I. e. in most marginals except a few mesial  and third the longitudinally elongated plates of the youngest marginals.
Besides Z. ligerus young and adult examples of a few other nearly related species were examined one from Tennessee probably new and Z. suppressus Say.
They gave essentially the same results as ligerus.
Patula striatella Anlh.
PL 11. figs.
VII VIII.
IX.
Several embryos from the eggs were examined.
Fig.
IX shows the buccal body of a quite young specimen with the commencement of the radual in optical section.
Diameter of the buccal body 012 mm.
The spindleshaped cells above are the developing retractor muscle.
 f an embryo more advanced about 1 mm.
long and nearly mature having a shell of 1  whorls and the caudal bladder small but still slowly contracting the radula is represented in fig.
VIII.
It is 44 mm.
long with 21 transverse rows in the last 9  c  9 teeth.
But the formation of new teeth is somewhat irregular on the two sides 7 Fur distinctness tiny arc separated in the drawing in nature tiny lie close together this is indicated hv the sisn.
in this as well as some other species.
The first transverse row is represented only by the first lateral on the right  the second by 1 'c l and so on as shown in the figure.
The transformation is rather simple and decidedly slow.
The centrals are wide and short at first with a short wide blunt median projection which develops into the mesodont and very slowly like the side cusps.
All other teeth are first formed as simple transverse bars or plates the laterals gradually assuming their definite shapes without intermediate stages  even the ectodonts seem to be always single.
Otherwise there is much similarity to Z. arboreus but the forms are somewhat more plump.
The first formation and development of the marginals has not yet been observed with sufficient exactness.
The mesodont and partly the ectodont are doublepointed and it appears probable that the mesial small cusp of the former is really the entodont as it first stands near the base fig.
VII 15 and then gradually ascends on the mesodont and becomes evanescent as seen in fig.
VII 128.
This figure represents the radula 1 4 mm.
long from a specimen having a shell of 58 mm.
diameter apparently not quite mature.
Yet in all the 94 transverse rows no new teeth are added  the formula is c. 6x110.
There is very little change in the shapes of the siugle teeth except that the plates of the sixth and seventh laterals are noticeably longer in the posterior than in the front part of the radula.
Of Patula alternata Say a number of examples were examined.
One having a shell of 20 mm.
diameter had a radula 45 mm.
long 15 wide with 143 transverse rows of 34C34 teeth with about 15 laterals.
In a young specimen of 3 mm.
diameter the radula was 08S mm.
long and had 72 transverse rows of 11cll in the anterior 12cT2 in the posterior part.
The radula of Patula solitaria Say extracted from a shell of 23 mm.
diameter is 5 mm.
long 1 8 wide with 142 transverse rows of 31'c31 teeth 16 laterals In a young one the shell of 53 mm.
diameter I counted 68 transverse rows of 13  c  13 teeth in the anterior 15'C15 in the posterior part.
Polygyra Triodopsis tridentata Say.
PI.
11 figs.
V. VI.
No embryo or quite young specimens were at my disposition.
The smallest found had a shell measuring about 6 mm.
in diameter.
Sec Pilsbry Preliminary outline of a new classification of the Helices.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc Phila. 1892 p. 400. and its radula was 1 63 mm.
long 070 wide with 88 transverse rows.
In a mature specimen of 15 mm.
diameter the radula was 385 mm.
long 1 '34 wide with 112 transverse rows.
The former had in the middle part 20 c 20 teeth of which five were laterals and two very nearly so in the latter part there were 30'C'30 in the anterior 31'C 31 in the posterior part about 10 of them laterals.
They are represented in figs.
V and VI and the form of the teeth is essentially the same in both.
The centrals have distinct side cusps  in the laterals there is not a trace of the endodont while the mesial cusp adjacent to the mesodont of the marginals seems to be an endodont since it stands nearly isolated on the base in the younger teeth as shown in 29 fig.
VI and then as in many other species of this genus of Patirfa and of Helicidw generally gradually coalesces with the mesodont ascends upon it and finally becomes obsolete.
There is however considerable variation as to this in the distal laterals even in the same longitudinal row as shown in fig.
VI 2529 Poltgyra Stenotrema hirsuta Say gave essentially the same result.
As already said the observations presented above have been made on but few species and not complete even in most of these.
They must be carried further.
Yet the results obtained appear to be for the most part new and valuable  they may briefly be comprised in the following conclusions 1.
The radula in land mollusca is quite different in the various stages of life both as to the number and the shape of the teeth.
2.
As to number  there are very few teeth in the first formed transverse rows and new ones forming new longitudinal rows are added at the lateral margins at first rapidly then at greater and greater intervals.
The development of the radula goes on faster than the growth of the animal comparatively so that in young examples it is larger in proportion to the size of the animal than in the adult.
3.
As to shape  the first formed teeth are of very simple shape and by gradual transformation give place to teeth of the final form.
This transformation may go through different stages or by different modes in cases where the form becomes ultimately the same.
4.
The question whether the addition of new teeth and the transformation of teeth goes on as long as life lasts or ceases with maturity is not yet decided.
5.
In certain species and groups there are forms of teeth in the embryonal or larval stage entirely different from those found in postembryonal life so that we may properly speak of the change as a metamorphosis.
6.
The new formation and transformation of teeth is as a rule not exactly symmetrical on the two sides of the radula so that a formula of one side is often only approximately true.
7.
The width of the individual teeth and of the longitudinal rows is the same from the earliest formation to the later stages and the increase in width of the whole radula is effected exclusively by the addition of new longitudinal rows.
S.
The central teeth seem to be and in some species are doubtless simple from their first formation  not a product of the coalescence of two original laterals.
9.
They are as a rule more or less markedly asymmetrical.
10.
The terms lateral and marginal teeth are not of absolute significance The marginals of a younger specimen or a part of them will have transformed into laterals when the animal is adult.
11.
It is also quite inadmissible to speak of the marginals as modified laterals for a transformation never takes place in this direction.
We should not say as has been usual that the simple mesodont of the laterals becomes split or bicuspid in the marginals but the contrary is true  the double pointed mesodont of the marginal loses its endodont and becomes simple as the tooth is gradually replaced by a lateral.
It is incorrect to say The teeth become smaller towards the margins as they virtually increase in size from the margin toward the middle.
12.
The expression transition teeth between marginals and laterals not the reverse has become of a real actual meaning just as the word relationship among organisms has gained its proper meaning by the theory of descent 13.
The different ways in which the teeth are formed and transformed will probably furnish valuable hints for systematic malacology.
''At least in the land Pulmonata Nephropneusta v.
lb.
 in some Limnaeidae.
e. g. Limiiua palustris Mull. there is a strong probability that the centrals are double in first formation.
14.
The rate of increase in number of the teeth will furnish the means for calculating the rate of the new formation of the radula as a whole.
This is more rapid than is generally supposed.
10 1.
It is evident that the morphology of a radula can be thoroughly understood only by examining and comparing the different stages of its formation.
In the text nothing has been said about the methods of preparation and manipulation of the radulse  not much is necessary.
As far as possible the radula has been removed from the fresh animal unchanged.
Caustic alkali has been used where necessary.
By careful desiccation and also by the action of chromic acid solution for staining valuable results may he obtained as the teeth and especially the plates of attachment shrink somewhat and thus are separated from each other and seen more exactly.
But it is almost unnecessary to add that this means can only be used in connection with observations on the intact radula for without this check artificial might he mistaken for natural features.
Explanation of Plates 10 and 11.
Plate 10 Fig.
I  Radula of an embryo of Limax campestris Say not quite mature showing first part of radula formed.
II  Radula of a specimen a few days old after hatching and measuring 35 mm.
long.
A.
30th transverse row about 42nd of total number.
B.
45th transverse row about 57th of total number.
Ill Radula of a specimen 7 mm.
long onehalf of a transverse row formula c. 10T8.
IV  Radula of a specimen 15 mm.
long onehalf of a transverse row formula c. 1427.
V  Radula of a specimen 15 mm.
long onehalf of a transverse row formula c. 1432.
'Without repeating the calculations here it may be said that I found the radula of Umax campestris to form about 800 transverse rows in all  probably considerably more  this would mean that the radula is about eight times entirely changed during life.
For Polygyra Mesodon thyroides about 2000 transverse rows were found corresponding to about 16 to 18 total renewals.
VI  Left side of first part of radula of another embryo.
Plate 11 Fig.
I  Zonitoides arboreus Say quite young anterior part x 600.
II  The same nearly mature x ca.
750.
Ill  Zonitoides ligerus Say young 3 mm.
diam.
 x 400.
IV  The same adult 9 5 mm.
diam.
 x 400.
V  Polygyra tridentata Say young mm.
diam.
 x 400.
VI  The same adult 15 mm.
diam.
 x 400.
VII  Patula striatella Anth. adult 53 mm.
diam.
 x 470.
VIII  The same embryo 1 0 mm.
diam.
 x 400.
IX  The same very young embryo buccal body 012 mm.
diam.
November 7.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook D.
I. VicePresident in the chair.
Twentyeight persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication  Description of two new Pocket Mice from the United States with remarks on the identity of allied forms by Samuel N. Rhoads.
On some Leechlike Parasites of American Crayfishes by J. Percy Moore.
On extinct Bovidse Canidse and Felidse from the Plistocene of the Plains by E. D. Cope.
November 14.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Thirtyseven persons present.
The deathof Francis T. Steel a member Sept. 20 1893 was annuounced.
November 21.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Eightyseven persons present.
A paper entitled Geographic Variations in Bassariscus astutus with description of a new suhspecies by Samuel N. Rhoads was presented for publication.
Fossil FisJ from British Columbia.
 Prof. Edw.
D. Cope states that Dr. G. M. Dawson of the Geological Survey of the Dominion of Canada had submitted to him for determination some specimens of fossil fishes from British Columbia.
Some of them are from a hard shale from near Tranquilla and others are from a shale of softer character from the north fork of the Smilkameen River which is a tributary of the Columbia.
The specimens from the former locality are too imperfect for determination while one from the latter locality may be named.
It is a species of Amijzon which differs from those already known in the shortness of the dorsal fin etc.
The characters of the species so far as determinable are as follows  Amyzon brevipinne sp.
nov.  Form medium  depth of body equal length of head.
Fin radii  D. 223  A.
8  V. probably 11 an interruption in the order of the rays making the location of these rays uncertain.
Seventeen vertebrae may he counted anterior to the caudal region of which 10 are anterior to the anterior hase of the dorsal fin.
Space for two additional vertebrae exists at an interruption of the dorsal series so that the total number of precaudal vertebras is probably nineteen as the dorsal fin is uninterrupted.
Distal caudal vertebra' and tin absent.
Pectoral ventral and ana
fins well separated from each other.
Length anterior to caudal vertebne .17 mm.
 length of base of dorsal fin 235 mm.
 depth at anterior base of dorsal fin 2 nun.
The species differs from those already described in the smaller number of dorsal finrays and of dorsal vertebne.
The specimen on which it is based is of smaller size than those of most of the other species but some of the fragments of the collection indicate larger individuals.
The discovery of this species extends the distribution of the Amyzon beds beyond its previous limits.
The localities at present known are the South Park Colorado and Osino Elko Co. Nevada.
Dr. Dawson informs me that both insect and plant remains occur in these fishshales and that Prof. Scudder finds the former to belongto species different from those of other localities.
November 28.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Fortyseven persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication  North American Larridae by Wm.
J.
Fox.
New Species of Fungi from various localities by J.
B. Ellis and B. M. Everhart.
Critical List of Mollusks collected in the Potomac Valley by H. A. Pilsbry.
The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award reported that the medal and the interest arising from the fund had been this year voted to Thomas Henry Huxley L. L. D. F. R. S. Professor of Biology in the Royal College of Science of London.
1893.
NAIM'RAL SCIENCES ' I'l I I I.
A I KI.I'I I I A .
40' REPORT OK THE COMMITTEE ON THE HAYDEN MEMORIAL GEOLOGICAL AWARD.
The Committee on the Harden Geological Memorial Award in fulfilling the trust confided to it by the Academy recommends that the Hayden Memorial Medal and the balance of the interest arising from the fund he awarded tliis year to Thomas Henry Huxley Ph.
I. LL.
U. D. C L. F. R. S. F. L S. F. G. S. Professor of Biology in the Royal College of Science of London in recognition of the great services which he has rendered to science and especially to geology during the long period of his valuable original researches.
In doing this the Committee is but acting as the agent of the Academy but it desires in addition and on behalf of its members whom his labors have assisted and enlightened to add a tribute of its own to the high scientific value of Dr. Huxley's achievements.
Persifor Frazer Angelo Heilprin J. Peter Lesley Ben.l Smith.
Lyman Committee.
Thysanophora coloba u. sp.
 Mr. H. A. Pilskry exhibited specimens of a minute land snail from Polvon Nicaragua which hail been for many years in the collection of the Academy under the name Helix wilhelmi Pfr.
He stated that it was not that species but a new form of the genus Thysanophora for which the name coloba was proposed.
He defined the species as follows Sp.char.
  Shell minute depressed with slightly conoidal spire  thin and fragile light reddish horn colored.
Umbilicus open but narrow onesixth the diameter of the base  whorls o convex the first one smooth the others very finely and closely striated the striaoblique arcuate on the last whorl becoming small wrinklelike riblets Under a high magnification 50 diameters an excessively close fine sculpture of revolving lines becomes visible.
Aperture roundedlunate oblique lip thin sharp the columellar margin dilated.
Alt.
116 mm. diam.
1 84 mm.
The specimens are from Polvon Nicaragua collected by the McNeil expedition.
This species seems nearly allied to T. guatemalensis C. and F.  but it is much more depressed more widely umbilicated and smaller.
Henry C. Mercer and Susanna M. Gaskell were elected members.
The following were ordered to be printed  3 404 1893.
