WITH REMARKS ON SPECIES OF THE GENUS PEROGNATHUS.
By SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
The pocket mouse from Texas here described as new was obtained during the past year by Prof. E. D. Cope and placed in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
The specimens of Perognathus lordi on which I have based the duplicate description of that species, so imperfectly characterized by Gray, were taken during a collecting trip in Washington and British Columbia last year, and are included in the author's private collection at the Academy.
By the rediscovery of P. lordi of Gray I am enabled to throw some light on certain questions of synonymy propounded by Dr. Merriam in his monographic revision of the genus.
1 The figure of skull of P. femoralis here given completes the illustrations of known species of the genus.
1.
Perognathus copei, sp.
nov. (type No.
1612, ad.
$ , Col. Acad.
Nat.
Sri., Phila,, Staked Plains near Mobeetie, Texas, August 26th, 1893; col. by Prof. E. D. Cope).
Description.
— Size small, somewhat greater than Baird's measurements of P. flavus.
Colors similar to Baird's description of P. monticola but smaller.
Ears destroyed.
Tail thickly covered with coarse hairs, concealing the annuli ; grayish white above, pure white below, with terminal pencil, slightly crestedpenicillate.
Beneath, including whisker patch and feet, white.
Upper back and head grizzled blackish fawn, the black tips coarsely predominating.
Rump and thighs strongly washed with cinnamon, this color forming a broad posterior band diminishing laterally to a faint line at forelegs; soles nearly naked, heel clothed with bristly hairs halfway to toes, as in flavus; skull similar to flavus but longer and narrower, the mastoids less pronounced both laterally and posteriorly, the interparietal a squarish pen1 X. Amer.
Fauna, No.
1, 1889.
2 All figures twice natural size.
tagonal as in P. inornatus.
In flams the coronoid process is short and blunt, in copei it is long and sharply attenuate.
The condyle in copei extends far beyond the tip of angle and its upper line is horizontal, instead of oblique, as in flavus.
In the latter the ratio of length to breadth of interparietal is 78, in copei it is 62.
P. copei belongs to the fasciafus group of the sub-genus Perognathus.
Measurements.
3 — Total length, 114; tail, 49; hind foot, 15.
Skull, total length, 19*5: basilar length of Hensel, 14-5; greatest mastoid breadth, 1 ; length of nasals, 7 ; interorbital constriction, 4-5; length of mandible, 9-7; height of coronoid process from angle, 42; ratio of length to breadth of interparietal, 62.
Remarks.
— Dr. Merriam thinks the specimen from Mason, Texas, on which he bases his description and figure of flavus in N. Amer.
Fauna, No.
1, may possibly not prove typical.
In any case it is evident that copei is in no sense identical with it, either cranially or externally.
So far as can be determined from Baird's description of flams there is nothing to prove its dissimilarity to the Mason specimen, whereas copei shows essential differences from either ; first in color, second in colorpattern, third in hairiness of the tail.
Baird did not define or figure any cranial characters.
The specimen of copei was taken by its discoverer from the stomach of a rattlesnake captured by him on the eastern slope of the Staked Plains near the headwaters of the North Fork of the Red River, in Wheeler County, Texas.
( )wing to its passage through the snake the specimen is probably abnormally long.
The skull had been forcibly compressed but not enough to prevent its restoration as seen in the figure.
2.
Perognathus lordi (Gray).
Abromys lordi Gray.
Fro'c.
Zool.
Soc, London, don, May.
1868, 202.
(Duplicate type.
No.
447.
$ ; Col. S. X. Rhoads; Vernon, head of Lake Okanagan, Bristish Columbia, July 28, 1S92: col. by S. X. R).
Description.
— Size medium, pelage soft, full aud silky, ears rather small, tail slightly longer than head aud body, sparsely and coarsely haired at base, the hairs longer aud more silky toward the slightlycrestedpenicillate extremity.
Above grayish buff, softly grizzled with black, the individual hairs, as described by Gray, being basally "dark lead color with short gray band and minute (slender) black tip."
The feet, lower half of tail, chin, throat, chest and belly and a spot on inferior margin and posterior 3 All measurements in millimetres.
4GH [1893. m base of ear, white.
Sides of cheek, neck, belly, thighs and tail washed with pale buff, this color often broadly encroaching upon the pure white -of throat and belly.
Upper third of tail colored same as back, darkening to black at the tip.
Measurements.
— Total length, 17!'
; tail, i)2 ; hind foot, 24; ear, from crown, 4 ••">.
Skull.
— Total length, 26; basilar length 17 '5 greatest mastoid breadth, 14; length of nasals, 10*7; interorbital constriction, 6 2; length of mandible, 12; height of coronoid process from angle, 5*2.
Ratio of mastoid breadth to basilar length, 82 ; of mastoid breadth to total length, 53'9 ; of length to breadth of interparietal, 71.
Lower premolar larger than the last molar; audita] bullae not united by a symphysis but separated by ■, mm.
anteriorly ; bullae not projecting beyond plane of occiput.
Remarks.
— Eight specimens of this species were trapped on the semi-arid foothills at the head of Lake ( >kanagan.
They abundantly frequented the open hillsides of bunch grass and sage-bush up to timber line and down to near the lake levels, driving their myriad tunnels without difficulty through the dry, indurated and stony soil.
Their habits seem to more closely resemble those of Thomomys than any other genus of burrowing rodent.
< hving to their habit of pushing a load of dirt ahead of them it was difficult to catch them in their retreats but a trap set by the mouth of certain foraging exits was more successful.
In the daytime they keep underground, coming forth nightly to replenish their larder with the seeds of weeds and grasses.
This species was not found in similar localities farther north.
It is probably limited to the southern parts of the Great Basin fauna of British Columbia as defined by me in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1893, page 25, and extends south into Northeastern Washington.
It is very doubtful if its habitat reaches farther west than the more arid foothills of the Cascade Mountains; the Selkirk Range would form a natural barrier to its dispersion eastward.
L893.]
407 3.
Perognathus femoralis J.
A. Allen.
Dr. Allen described this species in 1891.
4 Its cranial characters never having been figured, I take this opportunity of illustrating them from three specimens taken at the type locality during the past year (1898).
Femoralis differs from its allies fallax, californicus and armatus in essential cranial peculiarities, as may be seen by a comparison of the figure with those of Merriam.
Its skull is most like that of californicus, from which it differs in the squarecornered interparietal, the mastoid and zygomatic breadths being equal and the plane of occiput being on a line with the posteromastoid angles; the mastoids are relatively larger in femoralis and the coronoid process of mandible is longer and sharply hooked.
It may be further remarked that the three California species under consideration are a striking illustration of the wonderful fertility of the region they inhabit in the differentiation of species, externally similar, but anatomically distinct.
P. femoralis probably belongs to the penicillatus group of the sub-genus Chostodipus, as defined by v^?
>— — -~ — \_/^ Fig.
3.
Mr. Merriani.
Notes on fin' Affinities of Perognathus lordi, P. mollipUo&us and Oricetodipus parvus.
— In his admirable Revision of the North American Pocket Mice Dr. Merriam enumerates three species whose identity it was then impossible to determine, viz., the Aoromys lordi of Gray, the Perognathus mollipilosus of Cones and the Gricetodipus parvus of Peale.
Dr. Merriam, in summing up his conclusions, refers to these as follows: "My opinion is that this animal, ( P. mollipilosus), will prove to be identical with P. lordi and both may be the same as P. parvus of Peale."
In another place (page 27) he states: "all three come from the Pacific province, from Northern California northward."
Taking the above description of lordi as a basis, it remains to be • Bui.
Am.
Miis.
X.
II., Vol.
3, No.
2, 281. decided, (1) whether the British Columbia Pocket Mice taken by me are identical with the type of lordi.
(2) If so, can they he identical with mollipilosust (8) What is their relationship to P. montieola ot Baird?
(4) Are any of these the same as Cricetodipus parvus f (5) To what faunal areas do these species belong?
(1).
To the first query I can answer without hesitation in the affirmative.
I cannot find the slightest discrepancy between Gray's original description and the specimens from Vernon.
This is further confirmed by Mr. Oldfield Thomas's letter quoted by Dr. Merriam in his remarks on lordi in American Fauna No, 1.
(2).
Perognaihus mollipilosus differs from lordi in the following particulars: a, smaller size; b, tail one-third longer than head and body; e, cinnamon tints; d, color of upper parts descending to wrist ; e, it inhabits a different faunal region.
Its only affinities to lordi, so far as can be determined from Coues's description, consist in the non-penicillate tail, soft and smooth pelage, white lower parts, pale fulvous lateral stripe and bicolor tail.
In lordi, however, the tail is slightly crestedpenicillate and plainly tricolor, the latter a a peculiarity I have not noticed in any other murine rodent.
(8).
The characters of lordi coincide more closely with those of P. montieola of Baird and Merriam than with any other.
Mr. Thomas wrote Dr Merriam, after examining the type of lordi in the British Museum, that, "so far as (he could) make out from Coues's description (it) is the same as P.
montieola."
The description of Cones referred to was made on the supposition that a specimen from Fort Crook, California, was the same as Baird's type winch is supposed to have come from St. Mary's Mission, Montana.
Dr. Merriam refers to this Fort Crook specimen without hesitation as mollipilosus, (Coues's provisional name for it), and says the 7*.
montieola of Baird "is a very different animal."
We have seen that lordi and mollipilosus are not synonymous, and Dr. Merriam thinks mollipilosus and montieola are quite distinct, while Mr. Thomas thinks the type of lordi answers Coues's hybrid description of montieola et mollip'ilosus.
As the description of montieola has several year's priority over lordi the stability of the latter in our nomenclature depends on its specific dissociation from montieola.
That they are different species I have very little doubt, notwithstanding their apparent resemblance.
As compared with lordi, montieola may be distinguished by a, smaller size; b, cinnamon of upper parts; c, cinnamon of sides; d, plumbeous bases of belly hairs; e, outside of foreleg dusky to wrist; /, smaller skull ; g, mastoids projecting behind plane of occiput ; h, audital bullae united by an anterior symphysis ; i, relatively broader interparietal; j, shorter and blunter coronoid process; k, lower premolar smaller than last molar.
(4 ).
Having shown that the evidence is against considering lordi, mollipilosus and monticola synonymous and that their closest affinities are not between mollipilosus and lordi, as suggested by Dr. Merriam, but between mollipilosus and monticola, let us consider their relationships to Oricetodipus parvus.
If Peale's "mouse" can ever be proved to be a Perognathus I should predict, on geographical grounds, that it is more likely to be the same as mollipilosus than any other of the trio.
But there is strong evidence in Peale's minute description that Oricetodipus parvus is not a Perognathtis at all, but a suckling Perodipus, or five-toed kangaroo rat.
This evidence may be briefly summed — a, Dr. Merriam proves it to be, (Amer.
Fauna., p. 8), a "very young" animal; see also Baird, (Mam.
IS.
Amer., p. 425); b, " head and body ecpial;" proportions never (?)
seen even in half-grown Perognathus but correlated with the proportions of adult Perodipus; c, "whiskers numerous, white, a tuft of white hairs or bristles on the chin ; " this tuft is present in Perodipus agilis; I do not detect it in Perognathus; d, "forelegs small, feet moderate, * :;: :;: hind legs long, the feet large and strong, five-toed;" almost the reverse of this obtains in Perognathus, the fore feet in that genus being, as compared with the hind ones, unusually large and powerful; e, the very "long hind legs and long tail " are again commented on, "leaving little room to doubt that its habits are similar to those of the jumping mice, Meriones labradorius," a comparison not so applicable to a Pocket Mouse as a Kangaroo Rat, in fact not applicable to Perognathus at all, so far as I have examined them; e, the long tail (11 times length of head and body) is applicable to both genera; its absence of crest or pencil usually seen in Perodipus may have been due to immaturity: the socalled "Dipodomys heermanni," of Leconte, from the "Sierra Nevada," does not seem to have had the usual penicillate tail ; /, "color above, sepia brown, beneath, white, a dark line crosses the cheeks beneath the eyes; " to no specimen or description of Perognathus I have seen will this characteristic color combination apply, on the other hand it is peculiarly diagnostic of Perodipas from California and Oregon ; g, C. pawn* came from Oregon ; Perodipus has also been taken there and in southeastern Washington but I am not aware of any records of Perognathus from these States.
If the type of Peale's mysterious rodent, like other priceless and ill-used novelties of the Audubonian period, "cannot be found," to disprove the above interpretation, it cannot be denied that there is much evidence in favor of its being the type of a five-toed Kangaroo Rat instead of a five-toed Pocket Mouse.
As such, Cricetodipus Peale, 1848, antedates Perodipus Fitzinger, 18(i7.
( 5).
Dr. Merriam's statement that /on//, mollipilosus and C. parvus all came from the Pacific Province now needs qualification.
While this is probably true of the last two, lordi should certainly be assigned to a region quite devoid of the faunal peculiarities of the Pacific slope.
Previous to my rediscovery of lordi its precise habitat in British Columbia could only be conjectured, and so far as it went Dr. Merriam's supposition that this type came from the West Cascade region was reasonable enough.
From the nature of its chosen habitat at Vernon, and the absence of a similar environment west of the Cascades it is more than probable that the type came from the same region farther south and that the species is essentially a Great Basin form.
The following species of North American mammals have recently been added to the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
They were taken by Mr. R. B. Herron, who is at the present time continuing a collecting trip in California in the interests of the Academy.
Other novelties which may be taken by Mr. Herron, as well as a circumstantial account of the entire collections of birds and mammals made by him, will appear in a future number of the Proceedings.
1.
Dipodomys simiolus, ' sp.
nov. (Type No.
1616, J Col. Acad.
Nat.
Sciences.
l'hila.
: Agua Caliente, California, Oct. lit.
1893, col. by R. B. Herron).
Description.
— Minature of I>.
deserti with very similar colors, colorpattern and proportions.
No white terminal pencil, the dark ■ Simi an ape or mimic ; olns diminutive.
ashy upper fourth of tail extending to tip; a faint streak of brownishblack on under side of middle third of tail disappearing toward either extremity.
Soles scarcely darker than white feet.
Tail strongly crested-penicillate, the vertebraone and onehalf times as long a s head and body.
General shade of upper parts slightly darker than in deserU, inclining to cinnamon on rump in adults.
Measurements.
— Total length, 241 ; tail vertebrae, 149; pencil, 35; hind foot, 38 ; ear from crown (dry) !t.
Skull — Basilar length, 21-8; mastoid breadth, 24 ; inteorbital constriction, 14-5; length of nasals, 13; length of mandible to base of incisor, 13*8; height of coronoid process from angle, o-6.
Six specimens were taken, all in the Mohave Desert at Agua ( 'aliente.
The average measurements are less than those given above.
This species is easily distinguishable from desert i by small size, slightly darker coloration and lack of white tip to tail ; from similis by its lack of black on rump, tail, soles and hind legs.
.">.
Dipodomys similis, sp.
aov.
(Type No.
1017.
9 ( '"'Acad.
Nat.
Sciences, Phila.
: White Water.
San Diego Co., California, Oct. 24.
1803. col. by R. BHefron).
Description.
— In size and color pattern almost an exact counterpart of Perodipus agilis.
Colors similar to D. simiolus and D. deserti but darker than either and with tail and limbs relatively shorter than the latter.
Above light tawny tipped and lined sparingly with blackish, the latter color more pronounced on rump.
Posterior surface of thigh to heel, soles, ring around eyes, base of whiskers, top of nose and upper and lower fourths of tail to tip, blackish.
The remainder of body white, including small spot above eye, a larger one at posterior base of ears and stripe across thighs.
Ears grayish.
Tail crested-penicillate.
Measurements.
— Total length, 241; tail vertebra', 148: pencil, 2-1; hind foot, 38 , ear (dry) above crown, 10 o. Skull — -basilar length, 22; mastoid breadth, 24*5; interorbital constriction 14; length of nasals, 14: height of coronoid process from angle, 5.
Skull similar to that of simiol lis but with smaller mastoids and wider across ante-orbital processes of maxillary.
In similis the lower premolar is narrower anteriorly than posteriorly and as long as wide, in simiolus it is of equal width on both faces and much wider than long.
In similis the extremity of angle of mandible is prolonged and acuminate, in simiolus it is shorter and rounded at the extremity.
A male and female from White Water on the western side of Mohave Desert represent the species.
They are alike in all important respects.
(i. Perognathus alticolus, sp.
nov. (Type Xo.
1615.
$ , Col. Acad.
Nat.
Sciences, Phila.
; San Bernardino Mts., California.
Sept. 22, 1893, col. by R. B. Herron).
Description.
— Most similar to P. apache and P. inornatus, differing crauially, and in larger size from either, less yellow than apache and more decidedly lined with black than inornatus.
Size small, tail equals length of head and body, or longer, slightly crested penicillate.
Above yellowish brown heavily but finely lined with blackish.
Pelage very soft and full.
Bases of hairs above plumbeous for three-fourths their length.
A tawny lateral stripe from nose to and including upper half of tail.
Distal third of tail above becoming blackish.
Onefourth of heel end of soles, haired.
Lower parts, feet, fore legs and lower edge of ear white to roots of pelage.
Measurements (from dry skin).
— Total length, 157; tail vertebrae, 77; pencil, 9; hind foot, 20; ear from crown, 5.
Skull — Basilar length, 16; mastoid breadth, 12-5: interorbital constriction, 6; length of nasals, 8*6; length of mandible, 10*5; height of coronoid process, 4*6.
Cranially alticohis may be distinguished from both its allies by the well defined separation of audital bullae below.
Its lower premolar is similar to that of inornatus, but the mastoids of the latter are very much larger than those of alticolus.
The same maybe said of apache.
P. alticolus belongs to the fasciatus group of the subgenus Perognathus.
Skull figures of this species and the two Dipodomys above described will probably appear in the final report of Mr. Herron' s collections.
GEOGRAPHIC VARIATION IN BASSARISCUS ASTUTTJS, WITH DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SUBSPECIES.
By SAMUEL N. RHOA I »S The recent accession of three specimens of Bassariscus 1 to the museum of the Wagner Free Institute of Science in Philadelphia makes four individuals of the genus known to have heeen taken in the State of Oregon.
The first record was made by Dr. Goues in the American Naturalist in 1878.
This specimen was taken in southwest Oregon on the Rogue River; the rest were captured by Mr. Geo.
Kenzer near Grant's Pass in Josephine County, a few years ago.
They were mounted by him, and, since arriving in Philadelphia, two of them have been remounted and their skulls removed for examination.
Antedating these, the most northern records, we have the statement of George (Tib bs, Esq., in the Natural History of Washington Territory, that in 1852 he "found their skins quite common on the Lower Klamath River" but we have no positive evidence that any of the skins were taken on that part of the Klamath River lying north of California.
The dark colors of the Rogue River specimen are commented on by Dr. J.
A. Allen in his paper "On the Species of the Genus Bassaris"" as follows: "The extremes of variation in color are in specimens No.
11,849 from Camp Grant, Arizona ( E. Palmer) and No.
12,H49, from Oregon (A. H. Wood).
The Arizona specimen is pale brownish gray above, varied with blackish principally along the median line, caused by the black tips of the long hair.
Below, it is pale yellowish white.
The tail is mostly white below but above is crossed by alternate rings of black and white of nearly equal breadth.
The Oregon specimen has the prevailing tint of the dorsal region intense black, quite obscuring the brownish gray ground color.
Below, it is strongly brownish yellow, deepest on the throat and chin.
1 Bassaris of Lichtenstein, 1827 (1830) preoccupied by Bassaris, Hubner 1816.
See Science, Vol.
9, 1*S7.
V. 516.
-Art.
XVIII Hull.
U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Terr, 1879.
The tail is mostly black above, the white being mostly half-rings confined to the lower surface.
These two specimens accord with the peculiar phases of geographical color-variation commonly characterizing the mammals and birds of the two regions in question.
Should the Oregon specimen here described prove to indicate the average condition of the species along the Pacific coast to the northward, as seems probable, the form there prevailing may require to be varietallv distinguished under the name raptor Baird, this name doubtless referring to the Pacific coast form as already explained.
Five specimens from near the southern border of Texas agree in being rather darker than the Arizona specimen and present only a moderate range of color variation."
The three additional specimens from ( irant's Pass sufficiently confirm the color characters alluded to by Dr. Allen to make the question of subspecific separation worth careful consideration.
With this in view 1 have, through the courtesy of Mr. F.W.
True, secured the loan of the Smithsonian Institution series of Bassariscus astutus.
The series consists of eighteen specimens ; of these the majority are hunters, or fiat skins, lacking skulls.
Skulls accompany eight, measurements and data, five, and the whole series is labeled with the locality of capture.
Beside these and the ( )regon specimens, I have examined tour in the museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, making a total of twentv-five.
Among them is the type, skin and skull, of Baird's 'i>.
raptor.''
A most valuable and important addition to the series consists in a set of five (2 cf s, 2 9 s and 1 juv.
S ) finely prepared skins and skulls from Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico, taken in 1892, by Mr. P. P. Jouy.
Apart from their excllent preservation and full data these specimens are unique in being the only ones in the series taken in the southernmost range of B. astutvs, where it overlaps the habitat of B. sumichrasti.
We must first determine from what locality came the type specimens of ashdvs.
Lichtenstein states in his description that these were sent to the Berlin Museum by one Dr. Deppe during the residence of the latter in Mexico.
We are left to our imagination as to the precise locality of Dr. Deppe's residence, and, while it is reasonable to believe that the type specimens were taken in the "vicinity" and that it is very probable the doctor "practised" south of the twentieth parallel in those early days, direct evidence is wanting.
Rut we have in Liechtenstein's conscientious description and plate of astutus in Darstellungen der Saugethiere der zoologist-he Museum, (1827-34, pi.
43) so exact a reproduction of the peculiarities of the Cuernavaca specimens taken by Mr. Jouy as to leave us in no reasonable doubt that the type of astutus came from southern Mexico.
Lichtenstein's description makes no allusion to variations from the type in the numerous examples at his disposal.
If, however, we compare therewith specimens from northern Mexico northward we find an increasing departure from the characters assigned to typical astutus until, in the Oregon examples, we have a form to all appearances quite distinct.
It is quite proper that the two should be separated, perhaps specifically, though there is some probability that a complete series will insensibly connect the two extremes.
Such cranial differences as I have detected may all come within the range of individual and geographic variation.
At any rate the skull series is too incomplete as vet for a decided answer.
In either case the question arises as to the tenability of the name 'raptor' for the northern form.
It was originally proposed for a Pacific Coast species.
The value of the name is, in the first place, lessened by the fact that it was applied to an animal escaped from confinement in the east and "supposed' 1 to come from California.
The distinctive characters assigned to 'raptor' by Baird are: a, small number of black rings on tail and of greater extent compared with white rings ; />, black rings nearly complete below ; c, no difference in colors of remaining parts of body ; d, ears decidedly smaller ; e, cranium broader, more constricted behind post-orbital processes ; /, temporal crests closer together ; (j, pterygoids farther apart; //, ratio of greatest breadth to length 63 to 100 instead of 59, as in a female from Texas.
Dr. Allen has shown, and the series in my possession verifies his view, that these cranial differences are accountable to age, sex and individual variation.
The skull of raptor is nearly duplicated by No.
35,254 from Texas.
I find that in only one respect, the relative width of white and black tail-rings does Baird's diagnosis as given above apply to the Pacific coast form as contrasted with those from Texas.
But even in this particular typical B. astutus is very variable.
I therefore propose, for the Bassarisk of Northern Mexico and the United States the name Bassariseus astutus flavus.
Should the so-called astutus of the United States and northern Mexico prove a distinct species, the small, dark coast form from northern California northward (not of central and southern California) should be made a sub-species of flavus.
In that case it should be called Bassariseus flavus oregonus.
3 It is possible that Dr. Merriam has enough material in his custody to decide the question at an early date.
So far as they may now be distinguished, the Civet Cats belonging to the astutus group are characterized : 1, Bassariseus astutus (Licht.)
Description.
— Size large, fur scant and harsh.
Tail vertebra' longer than head and body, 14 to 16ringed exclusive of tip, black rings below interrupted by a broad, continuous mesial band.
Upper parts of body uniform blackish gray, often tinged with pale fulvous on sides of rump and belly, the black hairs of the dorsal region disappearing laterally.
Under parts clear gray with dirty, pale yellowish suffusion.
Underiur and roots of hairs ashy.
A roundish spot above the eye, a larger one beneath it and a semilunar spot at the entrance of ear, white.
Top of head, forehead, band around nose and soles of hind feet, blackish.
Skull large, strong and angular; zygomatic fossa 1 wide and deep; postorbital processes small and deflected downwards ; rostrum broad, canines widely separated ; sagittal crest well developed in adult males, frontal bones narrowed and long-waisted behind the supraorbital processes; canines sulcate on the innerposterior and anterior edges above, on the anterior edge below.
Measurements.
— Total length, (Jouy. )
K02 to 855, (Licht.)
850; tail (Jouy) 360 to 420, (Licht.)
368; hind foot, (Jouy) 76 to 71) (Licht. )
72; length of ear (Jouy) 45 to 49, (Licht.)
34(7) ; breadth of ear, (Jouy) 52 to 59, (Licht.)
25(?).
Skull.
— Total length, 82 to 87 ; greatest breadth 53-5 to 59.
Interorbital constriction 17" from tip to tip of postorbital processes 27.
Taken from adult male skull.
The above is about equivalent to a translation of Liechtenstein's two original descriptions of astutus.
The cranial diagnosis is chiefly 3 The type will hv No.
1,014, Col. Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila.
based on the four adult skulls of the Cuernavaca specimens.
The variability in the width of the pterygoids is striking, the two female skulls showing the greatest width in this respect.
In one of them it is nearly as great as in the skull of " raptor. "
The same variability is seen in flavus, but in two instances the widely separated pterygoids are present in male skulls, showing the peculiarity has no sexual significance.
In two of the Cuernavaca specimens the upper terminal fourth (127 to 150 mm. )
of the tail is wholly black, the remainder about ecpially whiteandblackringed above.
In this variation there is an approach to sumichrasti but the color of the under side of the tail in astuhis is in quite the opposite direction, being as broadly white as in any examples of flavus.
In general terms astutus may be distinguished from flavus by its greater size, light gray colors of uniform distribution, the total lack or slight trace of fulvous admixture, paleness of the fur at base and the scantiness and harshness of the pelage.
2.
Bassariscus astutus flavus, subsp.
nov. (Type No.
it?:.'
Col. Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila.
: Texas, 1861, col. by Dr. Heeriiiaiin).
Description.
— Size smaller ; fur long, full and soft.
Tail vertebra' somewhat shorter than head and body, tail 14 to 16 ringed exclusive of black tip, the black rings often nearly encircling it, ( in the Oregon series the three terminal black rings completely encircle tail).
Upper part of body blackish tawny, blackest medially, yellowest laterally.
Top of head and neck like middle of back.
Under parts tawny, lightest on throat and neck, underfur and roots of body hairs everywhere sooty.
Spots above and below eyes and at entrance of ear, tawny, the blackish markings of face indistinct or obsolete.
Skull smaller, rounded, the zygoma 1 relatively narrower posteriorly, postorbital processes relatively wider apart, closely approached posteriorly by the forward development of the brain case the temporal bone widening, suddenly at or near this point and rarely showing the waist-like configuration of astutus, rostrum short and tapering, the canines lying well within its contour as viewed from above, sagittal crest absent, canines less sulcate, groove disappearing in Oregon specimens.
Measurements.
— Total length, 680 to 800; tail, 804 to o*0 ; hind foot, 55 to 60 ; size of ears undeterminable.
Skull.
— Total length, 80, greatest breadth, 50; interorbital constriction, 20 ; tip to tip of postorbital processes, 30.
The range in the variation of external characters among the Bassarisks from northern Mexico and the United States, excluding the Oregon specimens, is not great, but variation in the size and proportions of the skull in animals of the same age and sex from a stated locality (Texas) is perplexing, seeming to connect flavus with typical astutus.
Color characters and body measurements on the other hand are constant enough to establish their title to separate specific rank.
Some cranial points seem to confirm this view, the molar dentition of the two forms, however, is identical.
A bona-fide Californian specimen is as light-colored or lighter than Baird's pseudonymous one, the latter (whose sole claim on our notice consists in its bare nanie ) sharing the same characteristic tawny seen in darkest Texan examples.
The light hued Camp Grant specimen, mentioned (supra cit. )
by Dr. Allen is in all respects only a small, pale flavus.
The Oregon series on the other hand are almost as different, externally, from average Texas skins as the latter are from true astutus.
The diminutive size, brownish black color, nearly black upper tail, completeness of the terminal black rings mesially, etc.
are subspecific characters apparently separating oregonus from its nearest congeners in the United States.
