LIST OF PORT JACKSON CHITONS COLLECTED BY DR. J. C. COX WITH A REVISION OF AUSTRALIAN ACANTHOCHITID.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The followiiig pages contain a part of the results of the study of a collection of the Chitons of Port Jackson New South Wales Australia recently made by Dr. J. C. Cox the wellknown Australiau conchologist.
Dr. Cox with great liberality transmitted to the Academy a large number of specimens both dry and preserved in spirits with the request that they be studied and reported on.
I am therefore enabled to make a contribution toward an exact knowledge of the distribution of the Polyplacophora inhabiting the New South Wales coast as well as to elucidate several important points relating to particular species and genera.
With the exception of a few records by Mr. E. A. Smith of Port Jackson species collected by Coppinger and by Professor Haddou of those collected by the Challenger' our knowledge of the Chiton fauna of the New South Wales coast is limited to the lists published by Mr. G. F. Angas many years ago.
At that time the morphology of Polyplacophora was very imperfectly understood  and consequently these admirable lists which have been so helpful to subsequent conchologists in dealing with most families of mollusks are almost useless in the study of Chitons so many errors do they contain.
Angas however found some forms in Port Jackson which subsequent observers have not yet found and among them several such as Microplax Grayi of exceptional interest to the general student on account of their peculiar and illunderstood features.
To direct the attention of local malacologists to these forms if for no other reason it is thought expedient to quote Angas' list of species the modern equivalents of his names so far as known to me being given in another column.
'Zool.Coll.
H. M. S.
Alert.
Challenger Reports Vol.
XVII.
sproc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1867 p. 221. and 1871 p. 97.
70 1894.
Angas' Port Jackson List.
Lophyrus australis coucentricus glaucus muricatus jugosus smaragdinus Lepidopleurus proteus ' ' longicymba  ustulatus ' ' aiitiquus Tonicia Carpeuteri Ang.
Leptochiton versicolor Onithochiton Incei ' ' rugulosus Chiton piceus Chretopleura rugosa Lorica cimolia  Angasi Plaxiphora petholata Acanthochites costatus ' ' scutiger ' ' carinatus Microplax Grayi Cryptoplax striatiis Modern Equivalents.
Ischnochiton australis Sowb.
Chiton jugosus Glcl.
Isc'lmochiton lentiginosus Sowb.
 Chiton muricatus A.
Ad.
  Coxi Pils.
 Ischnochiton smaragdinus Ang.
I Ischuochiton divergens Reeve  and fruticosus Gld.
 Ischnochiton Haddoni Pils.
Callistochiton autiquus Rve.
Tonicia Carpenteri Ang.
Callochiton platessa Gld.
 Onithochiton  Liolophura Gaimardi Blv.
 Lorica vol vox Rve.
 Loricella Angasi H. Ad.
Plaxiphora petholata Sowb.
A.
Loboplax costatus H. Ad.
and Ang.
f  A.
Meturoplax retrojectus   Pils.
or A. trranostriatus Pils.

 A. Coxi Pils.'
 Choriplax Grayi H. Ad.
 Ang.
 Cryptoplax striatus Lara.
Of the twentyfour species listed by Angas I have not seen Lepidopleurus vstulatus Tonicia Carpenteri Cluetopleurarugosa or Microplax Grayi.
The type of T. Carpenteri was examined by Dr. Carpenter who considered it a good species.
It probably belongs to the section Lucilina.
Angas' Cluetopleura rugosa may possibly be a young Plaxiphora but it is with hesitation I hazard any conjecture upon it.
A note upon Microplax Grayi will be found in The Nautilus for April 1894 p. 139.
The other species of Angas' list I have identified with a consideralile degree of certainty having numerous specimens of all of them before me as well as some additional forms lately discovered.
The species collected by Dr. Cox are as follows    Ischnochiion Kshilatiis Eve.
occurs abundantly in South Australia but nothing I have seen from Port Jackson corresponds to this species.
1894.
NATURAIv SCIENCES OF PHII.ADEIjPHI A.
71 Family ISCHNOCHITONIDiE.
Genus CALLOCHITON Gray.
Callochiton platessa ioiild.
Port Jackson.
This is the Leptorhiton versicolor Ad.
 of Angas' list.
It is a lovely shell of the most lrilliaiit orangered color.
A larger darkbrown species allied to this occurs on the Tasmaniau coast Callochiton  Trachyradsia iiwrnaf us Ten.
Woods.
Genus ISCHNOCHITON Gray.
The general arrangement of the species of this genus is faifioni satisfactorv.
Former classifications have been founded too exclusively upon the girdle scales.
The Australian species fall into five natural groups or sections which may le defined as follows  1.
Iscluiovhlton s. str type longlcymba Q.
 G. Intermediate valves having 11 slits lateral areas radially sculptured central areas finely granulated in quiucunx or longitudinally lirulate at the sides with V sculpture along the ridge.
Girdle scales subequal striated.
2.
ISteaoch'don  type jaloides A.
 A.
Animal much elongated intermediate valves having several slits on each side.
3.
Heterozoiia type cariosa Cpr.
Like IscJmochlton sensu stricto but girdle scales minute and large intermingled.
4.
Huplojilax now.
 type smaragd in ks Aug. Intermediate valves having 11 slits entire surface smooth except for minute granulation girdle scales convex smooth.
5. hvhiioradskc type aiidralis Sowb.
Shell not unusually elongated intermediate valves with several sideslits sculpture coarse girdle scales very convex not striated.
Ischnochitou Haddoni I'ilshry.
Very abundant at Port Jackson and Port Hacking.
This shouhl be comareil with the type of Chiton crispus Reeve Conch.
Icon.
pi.
19 fig.
120 a species I have not seen.
Also with C. pallidns Reeve I. c. pi.
IH fig.
92.
It is certain that this is not Chiton longicymba Blainville nor is the New Zealand species described by Quoy ct Gaimard the same as that of de Bkiinville.
Ischnochiton fruticosus Gld.
Abundant at Port Jackson with the next species.
This form is distinguished from .
diveniena by its very much smaller girdle scales.
In fruticmm the individual scales measure in width 25 mm. or four to a millimeter.
lu divergois they measure '40 or otily two and a half to the millimeter.
The difference is perfectly olvious to the naked eye.
This species and the ne.xt seem to have been included by Angas under the name Lepldopleurus proteus.
I believe CalUdovliiton Copplngeri Smith to be the young of this species.
Ischnochiton divergens Keeve.
Port Jackson and Port Hacking Cox.
Reeve's Cli.
proteus described from Newcastle is a synonym.
Ischnochiton Ischnoradsia australis Sowb.
Port Jackson Cox.
Ischnochiton Haploplax smaragdinus Angas.
Port Jackson Cox.
This species varies wonderfully in coloration.
The following patterns being repiesented in the lot before me r white or pale olive the front and hind valves black sometimes the fourth fifth and seventh valves marked boldly with black.
6 Pale olive flecked closely with olive head and tail valves black.
c Skyblue closely reticulated with olive and in places marked with white d Rich brown speckled with olivaceous and marked with white on valves i iv viii.
The details are thus endlessly varied.
Mr. E. A. Smith has kindly verified my determination by a comparison with Angas type of smaragdiniis.
I. smaragdinus picturatus var.
iiov.
Colorscheme consisting of a ivlde duiaul dripe of lilac dark blue ochre or some combination of these or other hues tlie stripe bordered with brownish this border spreading forw.ird on value i and spreading over most of valves ii and vi.
Remainder of the sideslopes light and variegated.
Girdle irregularly tessellated.
This seems so well defined a pattern of coloring that I venture to give it a name.
Many Sjjecimeus are before me from Port Jackson.
73 Isohnochiton Haploplax lentiginosus Sowb.
Shell rather thin oval moderately elevated carinated the sideslopes straight.
Surface smooth except for slight radial riblets ou the lateral areas.
Groundcolor orange orangebroivn or even Avith an olive suffusion coarsely spotted throughout xoith bright blue the girdle olivegreen iinicolored or with dusky bars.
The intermediate valves are slightly concave behind the beaks slightly projecting and interrupting the curve.
Lateral areas slightly raised marked by 4 to 6 weak low radial riblets obsolete in some specimens.
Central areas having slight growth lines but otherwise unsculptured except for the usual microscopic granulation of the whole surface.
End valves showing traces of radial riblets toward the periphery.
Posterior valve having the rather blunt mucro at the summit of the straight posterior slope and in front of the middle.
Interior roseate in the cavity olivaceous liehind the valvecallus the sutural and insertionplates bluewhite.
Suturallamime short projecting less than half the length of a valve separated by a rather narrow hardly squared sinus.
Anterior valve having 11 intermediate valves 11 posterior 13 slits teeth sharp normal.
Girdle clothed with densely imbricating convex polished scales which generally show a very minute striation under the compound microscope.
The scales measure width 28 alt.
about 22 mm.
 the width of a scale is therefore contained about 3 2 times in a millimeter.
Length 19 breadth 10 mm.
 divergence about 115.
This species was described from Newcastle N. S. Wales.
It has since been confused with .
cyaneopunctatus Krauss a very similar species from the Cape and its Australian habitat has been doubted.
The rediscovery of the species in Australia Port Hacking N. S. Wales by Dr. Cox is therefore of unusual interest.
In some specimens there is a narrow whitish stripe on the ridge of valves iii iv v vii and viii and in some the blue spots become enlarged and diluted on valve iv forming a pale blue or whitish variegation.
This cannot be Chiton clypeus Blainv.
Diet.
Sci.
Nat. xxxvi p. 540 which is also described as bluespotted.
Genus CALLISTOCHITON Cpr.
Callistochiton antiquus Eeeve.
Port Jackson Cox.
Readily recognized by the very strong 6 sculpture of tlie valves which is not paralleled by any other small Chitou of Australian waters.
Another species referred to this genus Call ido chit on Coppijigeri'E.
A. Sniitli lias been described from Port Jackson.
I have not seen the type liut I believe it to be a young roughly sculptured Ischnochlton fndicosus Gld.
Family MOPALIID.
Genus PLAXIPHOEA Gray.
Plaxiphora petliolata Sowb.
Abundant and typical at Port Jackson and Port Hacking.
At the latter locality some specimens occurred having the exterior coloi'ed like P. glaiiut Quoy Man.
Conch. XIV pi.
68 fig.
72j and the inside pink and white slightly clouded with blue.
I have not seen specimens of the true P. jlatica which is described as smooth outside.
The valves of P. petholata are always finely corrugated.
Family ACANTHOCHITID.
But one genus of this family AnntJtochltes has been found to have representatives in Australian waters.
This genus is nearly worldwide in distriliution in tropical and temperate seas.
The other genera of the family are local in distribution and contain very few species.
Genus ACANTHOCHITES Risso.
The genus Acantltochlte. is one of the most difficult groups ot Chitons partly on account of the insufficiency of the published descriptions of species partly because the specific characters are not easy to see in the creatures themselves especially if the external features only of the animal are studied.
When the valves are removed from the girdle a number of excellent distinguishing characters are seen enabling us to reach more satisfactory conclusions in most cases.
The characters to be especially observed are   1.
General form etc. features of girdle its tufts and presence or absence of a marginal fringe of longer spicules.
2.
General features and coloring of valves shape of iheir poderlor sutirral margin which may be either concave or convex and strongly imbricating.
3.
Degree of differentiation of dorsal areas vhich may be either raised at the edges or coutinuou
with the side areas and eithe7' transversehj or longitiidinalhj striated.
Sculpture of sideareas and shape of the pustules which may be either convex or concave.
The preceding features may be deserved without disarticulating the specimen the following require its dissection which is easy enough after soaking it in warm water.
4.
Shape of tegmentum of tail valve proportion of its breadth to length and position of mucro.
5.
Shape of josterior insertionplate of tail valve which may be either regularly rounded or angular.
Number of slits.
6.
Length of front slope of tegmentum of head valve as compared with length from apex to edge of front teeth of same.
The last mentioned character is a good index to the degree of immersion of the valves in the girdle.
Of course any of these characters is subject to individual variation but if a description is prepared noticing them all it is extremely likely to contain something which will lead to the identification of a given specimen.
In my account of this genus in the Manual of Conchology insufficient attention was given to the features of the tail valve.
The following species referable to the family Acanthochitidce have been described from Australia 1825.
 Chiton pohjchetus Blainville Diet.
Sci.
Nat. XXXVI p. 552 New Holland.
1825.
 Chiton roseiis Blainville t. c p. 553 New Holland.
1825.
  Sueurii    King George Sound.
1825.
  scaber    Seas of New Holland.
1861.
 Criiptoplax Notoplax speriosa H. Adams Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. p. 385 Tasmania Cuming Flinder's I.
Milligan.
1864.
 Hanleya variabilis H. Adams  G. F. Angas P. Z. S. p. 194.
Yorke Peninsula Angas.
1864.
 Acanthochites carinatns H. Adams  G. F. Angas P. Z. S. p. 194.
Port Jackson Angas.
1864.
 Acanthochites costatii H. Adams  G. F. Angas P. Z. S. p. 194.
Port Jackson Angas.
1865.
 Acanthochites sciitiger A.
Ad.
iiEve. Angas P. Z. S. p. 188.
Port Lincoln Angas.
lH2.Acaidhociifes tristis Rochebrune Bull.
Soc.
Philomath.
Paris 18811.SS2 p. 194.
New Holland Dussumier.
1882.
 AcanthochitcK tnrgidiis Rochebrune t. c p. 194.
New Holland Peron  Lesueur.
1882.
 Aeanfhoehites jucundas Rocliebrune t. c p. 194.
New Holland Belligny.
1884.
 Chiton.
A'antko'hitoi asbedoldes Cpr.
MvS. E. A. Smith Zool.
Alert p. 88.
Port Molle Coppiuger.
1894.
 AenthocJiites Metinojjlax retrojectus Pilsbry Nautilus p. 107.
Port Jackson Cox.
1894.
 Aranthorhitet grrniosfriatus Pilsbry Nautilus p. 119.
Port Jackson and Port HackinoCox.
1894.
 Aeanfhoehites Co.r Pilsbry Nautilus p. 119.
Port Jackson Cox.
1894.
 Acanfhochifes Mattketosi Bednall  Pilsbry Nautilus p. 119 S. Australia Matthews.
Of these seventeen species the four described by de Blainville have not been recognized and without an examination of the types they cannot in my opinion be really known.
The three species described by Dr. Rochebrune will also prove difficult to identify although A. jiu'iindiis will probably be recognized by its peculiar coloration.
Most of these species of Blainville and Rochebrune were founded upon specimens collected in the early part of the century and no locality more exact than New Holland is stated.
It must be remembered that even this vague geographical information is not to be considered conclusive.
Some early voyagers have been known to get the localities of their shells mixed.
The remaining species are known to be Australian but two of them H. earinatns and A. scidigtr must be rejected  the first because the name is preoccupied by Risso Aranthochites rariiKitus Risso Hist.
Nat.
Eur.
Merid. IV p. 169.
1826 the other because it is founded upon an incorrect identification.
We have therefore eight recognizable species of AcaiithocJiites from this region if we include  Hanleii  varwhilis which is unknown to me autoptically.
To this number one more is herein added.
The Australian Acaiithochites fall into four subgenera or sections distinguished by the following characters  II.
Anterior valve having five strong radiating ribs lobing the periphery of the tegmentum tail valve with several slits.
Loboplax aa.
Anterior valve without radial ribs the lower margin of the tegmentum not obviously lobed b.
Valve viii having the mucro posterior its insertionplate 2sIit the posterior portiou strongly directed forward .
Metiiroplux bb.
Posterior insertiouplate of valve viii spreading backward or vertical nuicro not at the posterior extremity c. Valve viii with two slits and a wide shallow posterior sinus Aeanthochltes cc.
Valve viii with several slits Notoplax Key to Australian species of Acanthochites.
a. Anterior valve having five strong radiating ribs insertionplate of tail valve with more than two slits .... eostaUis an.
Anterior valve not strongly ribbed.
b. Posterior insertionplate of tail valve directed forward twoslit.
c. Posterior margins of median valves convex or straight by erosion side areas of valves coarsely granulose the dorsal areas smooth not defined not longitudinally striated.
Size small retro jecttii bb.
Posterior insertionplate directed backward or vertical mucro not at the posterior extremity c. Valve viii with two slits a wide shallow sinus between them.
d. Tegmentum of valve viii less than half as wide as those of the intermediate valves dorsal areas smoother than sides but not defined not longitudinally striated posterior margins of valves very convex broadly reflexed within tufts dense silvery asbestuslike .
.
asbestoicles del.
Tegmentum of valve viii more than half as wide as those of intermediate valves dorsal areas longitudinally striated  posterior margins of valves i to vii not convex generally concave.
e. Posterior margin of the insertionplate of valve viii regularly convex not bilobed  sides of valves with radially elongated convex pustules interior and suturallaminte roseate tufts inconspicuous hardly longer than the harsh stiff pile of the girdle generally ........ Coxi ee.
Posterior margin of insertionplate of valve viii biaugular sides of valves with flat or concave pustules tufts noticeably longer than the pile of the girdle.
.
Dorsal areas smooth with delicate longitudinal striie .
.
grariostriatus ff.
Dorsal areas strongly deeply striated longitudinally BednaUl cc.
Valve viii with more than two slits.
d. Tegmentum of valve viii pearshaped longer than wide sides of valves pustulose dorsal area defined smooth tufts subobsolete speciostis dd.
 Tegmentum of valve viii irregularly rounded  pleural tracts of valves longitudinally costate lateral areas granulated dorsal areas delicately striate longitudinally .
.
.
Matthewsl Acanthocliites Loboplax costatus Adams and Angas.
Man.
of Concli. XV p. 40 PI.
3 lig.
74.
This species is distinguished by its strongly lobed head valve from all other known Australian Acunthochites.
It is allied to A. violaceiis of New Zealand and A. tridaciia of New Caledonia.
A. costatus has been collected by Angas at Watson's Bay during an unusually low tide  also by Coppinger in Port Jackson.
It has not been found there by Dr. Cox.
Acanthochites Meturoplax retrojectus PilsLry.
PI.
II figs.
13 13 14 15.
Nautilus vii p. 107 January 1894 Preliminary description.
Shell small narrow and elongated convex not carinated Ijlack or blackbrown with a whitish V or three white stripes on each valve sometimes broadly maculated with whitish at the sides sometimes unicolored dark chestnut brown.
Intermediate valves moderately leaked convex behind except valve ii the posterior margin of which is straight sculptured with comparatively coarse rounded scattered pustules which become smaller and more crowded toward the middle and are lower and less distinct on the ridge no areas being distinctly differentiated on the valves.
End valves similarly sculptured.
 In allusion to the backward thrown mucro.
Posterior valve small having the mucro obtuse and posterior the Osterior slope short vertical.
Interior green marked with black in the cavity.
Head valve having the insertionplate about onethird as long as the front slope of the tegmentum with 5 small slits.
Intermediate valves having vtrv oblique plates witli 11 minute posterior slits posterior valve having the insertion plate short and strongly directed forward with a small slit on each side.
Sutural laminae rather lonyand narrow lrojecting far forward.
Sinus wide deep and square.
Girdle microscopically chat
' with a series of hyaline spicules at the edge and 18 small and compact silvery tufts.
Length 92 width oJ mm.
dry specimen. 
12 6  average specimen preserved in alcohol.
Abundant in Port Jackson near S3fdney Dr. J. C.
Cox.
This is a very distinct and easily recognized little species of which Dr. Cox has collected great numbers.
It varies interminabhin the color and pattern of the valves but not much in sculpture.
The subgenus which I have constituted for the reception of this one species may be defined as follows  Meturoplux n. subg.
of Acauthochites.
Subg.
Char.
 Valves i to vii as in Acanthochites but dorsal areas indistinctly differentiated valve viii Jiaving the mucro posterior tJte iiisertioiiplate stro7ili directed Jorward with one slit on each side and no sinus behind.
Girdle as in Acanthochites.
Type A. retrojectus.
This group holds the same relation to Acanthochites that Pallochiton holds to Chcetopleura.
It is a variation distinctly in the direction of the Cryptojdacidcv recalling Choneplax and clearly showing the Acanthochitoid genesis of that family.
Acanthochites s.
str.
asbestoides Cpr.
PI.
Ill figs.
10 17 18 19 20.
Man.
of Conch.
XV.
p. 17.
The prominent features of this species are 1 that the dorsal areas are hardly differentiated being only somewhat smoother than the den.sely granulated lateropleural areas and totally lack longitudinal striation.
2 The posterior margins of the median valves are produced far backward in the middle each strongly imbricating over the following valve and inside the beakmargin is very broadly reflexed fig.
16.
3 The tail valve is disproportionately small compare fig.
20 with fig.
17 and its suturallaminae are very long.
These features in combination with the compact asbest uslike sutural tufts readily distinguish the species from other known forms.
A. asbestoidex was collected by C'oppinger at Port Molle Queensland.
It is also in the British Museum from Flinder's Island Bass Strait.
This last locality should be confirmed.
Acanthochites Coxi' Pilsbry.
PI.
Ill figs.
21 22 23 24 2.520 PI.
IV fig.
34.
Nautilus VII p. 119 Frb.
1S94  prelimiuiiry lescriptiiu.
Shell elongated the visible portion of the valves occupying less than onethird of the entire breadth of the animal when preserved in alcohol.
Valves grayish somewhat mottled with olive and fleshy the dorsal areas dark red or marked with olivaceous.
Girdle olivaceous.
Exposed portions of the intermediate valves subtriaugular slightly elevated hardly carinated nearly separated at the sutures by spicu.
lose bridges of the girdle.
Dorsal areas wedgeshaped convex distinctly differentiated from the pleura but not elevated at the sides sculptured with fine longitudinal striie.
Lateropleural areas having the diagonal rib indicated by a low rounded convexity and sculptured throughout with convex pustules elongated in a radial direction fig.
21.
Anterior valve having five low I'iblets indicated each produced at the lower edge in a slight lobe.
Posterior valve PI.
Ill figs.
2225 having the tegmentum subcircular a trifle wider than long the mucro rather elevated and acute behind the middle.
Interior rose colored.
Anterior valve with the insertionplate more than half as long as the front slope of tegmentum pink with five deep slits intermediate valves having 11 slits and a ridge running upward from the slits as though the anterior edge of the posterior tooth projected over the posterior edge of the anterior tooth.
Posterior valve having the insertionplate subvertical behind and slightly waved up between the two slits its posterior contour convex.
Sutural laminae large rounded sinus angular.
Girdle fleshy densely clothed with short hyaline spinelets the tufts being represented by inconspicuous clumps of somewhat longer spines.
Gills threefourths the length of the foot.
Length 23 breadth 13 mm.
alcoholic specimen.
Named in honor of Dr. J. C. Cox of Sydney N. S. W. Port HackiuLi N. S. Wales Dr. J. C. Cox.
This species differs from A. fntnostrlatiis ia the iucouspiciious tufts obvious though low diagonal ribs convex pustules rounded contour of the insertionpi ate of the tail valve etc.
Acanthochites granostriatus rilslny.
Tl.
II.
tigs.
1 2 3 4 5 0 PI.
IV tin.
37.
Nautilus VII.
p. 119.
Fol.
1894.
Shell rather elongated.
Exposed portion of valves occupying about onethird to onehalf the total width in dried specimens.
'alves moderately elevated and obtusely keeled the ridge indistinctly clouded with whitish orange and blackish sides mottled in indistinct and varying pattern with olive and white.
Girdle olivaceons tufts silvery stained with blue or dirty olive.
Intermediate valves having the exposed portions broadly wedgeshaped truncated in front decidedly imbricating.
Dorsal area of each valve wedgeshaped rather wide convex distinctly differentiated from the pleural areas but not raised at the sides sculptured with numerous rather weak longitudinal striai and crossed by slight growthlines.
Laterepleural areas having no trace of a diagonal rib sculptured with elongated concave or fiat pustules arranged radially and connected by opaque lines giving the appearance of radial stride.
Anterior valve with very slight indications of three or five low rounded radial ribs.
Posterior valve having the tegmentum subcircular the niucro rather acute and elevated situated at the posterior third PI.
II figs.
25.
Interior of valves pink becoming salmon colored posteriorly stained with dark in the middle of the cavity where there is a distinctly porous longitudinal band.
Sinus moderately deep squared and minutely crenulated.
Posterior valve triangular having an upward wave in the straight posterior margin the posterolateral margins concave.
Girdle clothed with short greenish spicules and having eighteen conspicuous bluish or silvery tufts.
Length 9 breadth oi mm.
dried specimen.
Length 10 lreadth 7 mm.
alcoholic specimen.
Port Jackson and Port Hacking N. S. Wales Dr. J. C. Cox .
Acanthochites Bednalli Pilsbiy.
PL II figs.
7.8 9 10 11.
Shell oblong moderately elevated carinated the .sideslopes straight.
Color of valves light creamygray sparsely maculated with dingy browu and white usually sliowing some indistinct olive stains on some valves.
Girdle gray witli conspicuous silky silvery tufts.
The posterior sutural  margins of the valves are nearly straight the small beaks slightly projecting along the middle line.
The tegmentum of each intermediate valve is divided into a distinct but not sharply defined triangular dorsal area which is longitudinally marked by ir20 heply cut tikz and twosubequilateral triangular side areas wliich bear concave or flat tped ovate pustules rather irregularly arranged.
The anterior valve is similarly sculptured and has several indistinct radial elevations the front slope of its tegmentum is nearly double the length of the anterior teeth.
The posterior valve has a roundedhexagonal tegmentum which is somewhat broader than long with the raucro between the posterior third and fourth of its length behind the miicro sloping outward.
Interior tinged with rose in the middle and somewhat porous there the teeth and sutural plates bluish or greenish valvecallus strong reflexed border of tegmentum very narrow.
Anterior valve with five intermediate valves 11 slits posterior valve PI.
II figs.
S10 having a distinctly biangular bilobed contour behind the posterior median portion straight iateroposterior sides concave behind the two narrow slits.
Sinus wide and angular in all the valves.
Girdle wide densely clothed with short graybrown siicules and having nine large tufts of long silvery sjjicules on each side.
Length about 13 breadth 6'' mm.
dried specimen.
Habitat  Western Shore of St. Vincent Gulf S. Australia W. T. Bednallj.
This species is closely allied to A.
jranostriatus but the valves are more solid the dorsal areas are in iicji more deephj striated long itiidiiKiUij  that of valve viii is largely broken into granules.
The sutural lamime in A. hednalli are greenish the pustules of the sideareas are somewhat larger and rather less regularly arranged in longitudinal series.
The profile of valve viii is not notably different in the two species but the mucro of A. griuostritiis is rather more posterior.
A. Bednafl
differs from A. Co.ri in having much more conspicuous and silky sutural tufts in the color of the interior and sutural lamina' in the flat pustules and in lacking the curved dia1894.
NATrRAL SCIENCES OP PHIIjADEI.PHIA.
So goual ril which in Cox
exteutls from the apex of eacli median valve to its hiteral slit.
Acanthochites Notoplax speciosus H. Ad.
PI.
IV tigs.
31 .12.
33.
Mnu.
o1' 'inch. X' p.
3.
' I'l.
1 li.us.
J326 druAvii from type.
This peculiar species may instantly be known by the wide Cryptoplaxlike girdle densely clothed with minute spines which are thick and blunt for an Ac'iiifliorJilfex and having inconspicuous sutural tufts not longer than the surrounding pile but composed of finer whiter spicules.
The tegmentum of each intermediate valve is triangular the girdle tissue forming spiculo.e bridges at the sutures.
The dorsal areas are sharply defined convex and arcuately striated b'' growthlines lut show no longitudinal striie.
The lateropleural areas have round concavetopped pustules.
Other notable features are found in the tailvalve which is very high with vertical posterior insertionplate and pearshaped tegmentum.
The sutural laminte and insertionplates are radially striated and the posterior valve has several slits besides the usual pair.
The tegmentum of the headvalve is small extending hardly half the length of the front slope of the valve.
The figure.
 are drawn from a specimen from St. Vincent Gulf furnished by Mr. W. T. Bednall.
It has been known hitherto from Tasmania Cuming coll.
and Flinder's Island Jos.
Milligan.
Acanthochites Notoplax
Matthews
Eednall and Pil.shiy.
PL IV figs.
27 28.
2i 30.
Nautihus 'II p 120 Feb. 1S94.
Shell elongated narrow moderately elevated and carinated the sideslopes straight.
Valves of a delicate flesh tint each having several concentric forwardconverging zigzag bands of olivebrown.
Girdle hoary with white sutural pores.
Valves i to vii bave the posterior sutural margins concave the small beaks slightly projecting.
Dorsal areas narrow very convex but not raised at the edges delicately striated longitudinally.
Side areas divided into pleural and lateral tracts by a small curved diagonal riblet the pleural tracts sculptured with loiigitndinal rihlets about fifteen on each side flattened and faintly crenulated as they cross the diagonal rib these riblets bend abruptly upward passing obliquely across the lateral areas upon which they are more distinctly crenulated or broken into pustules especially near the beak of each valve.
Anterior valve having five low radial elevations pinnately corrugated the lower margin of the tegmentum feebly angulated by them.
Posterior valve having a large irregularly rounded tegmentum ribbed in front granulated behind mucro at the posterior fourth of tegmoitnm decurved and hooked the slope behind it concave.
Interior white with bluish macuhe at sinus and bases of the sutural laminiw Anterior valve with five intermediate valves 11 slits posterior valve having the posterior insertionplate flaring backward and outward with one strong slit on each side and several two or three between them.
Sinus rather wide.
Girdle narrow densely clothed witli minute spicules and having rather large bunches of vei'y short white spicules at the sutures.
Length 26 breadth 8 mm.
dried specimen.
Habitat South Australia E. H. Matthews 
The sculpture of this species is extremely peculiar and totally different from that of any previously known member of the family Acaiithochitidce.
The coloring is also markedly distinct.
The type was sent me by Mr. W. T. Bednall of Adelaide South Australia who suggested the specific name employed above.
Although technically a Notoplax in its multifissate tail valve this species is very unlike A. speciosus the type of that group.
Acantliochites Notoplax I variabilis.
IhDilcva variabilis H. Ad.
iiul C. F. Aug. V. Z. S. 1864 p. 191 Augas P. Z. S. 1865 p. 188.
Shell oblong whitish variegated with blackishbrown.
Valves broad carinated dorsal areas longitudinally densely costate the ribs closely pustulose lateral areas but slightly elevated transversely undulately costate the costie closely pustulose.
Girdle having short white corneous Sicules at the margin and bunches of pale spicules.
Length 16 breadth 10 nmi.
Habitat Yorke Peninsula under stones at low water Angas.
The above translation of the original description is given for comparison with that of A. Matthenm.
This species is otherwise unknown to me and may prove to belong to some other group.
It is evidently distinct from A. Matthewsi the proportions of breadth to length in the two being so difterent as to preclude the suspicion of identity which I at first entertained.
189.
NATiriAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELPHIA.
85 Family CRYPTOPLACID.
Genus CRYPTOPLAX Blainville.
Cryptoplax striatus Lainaick.
Abundant in Port Jackson.
The large series of adniirahly preserved specimens submitted by Dr. Cox shows conclusively the uncertainty and variability of the pore bunches.
In some individuals they are all developed  in others most of them are certainly absent the minutest scrutiny of the surface showing no trace of pores or their spicules.
Family CHITONID.
Genus CHITON Linne.
Chiton pelliserpentis Q.
 G. Port Jackson Cox.
I am quite unable to detect any difference between the excellent fresh specimens sent by Dr. Cox and the New Zealand specimens from Auckland.
This is the only species of the order known to me to be common to New Zealand and Australia.
Chiton muricatus A.
Ad The central areas have a ribless triangle in the middle  the pleura have about 10 narrow riblets on each side in front of the diagonal rib but not extending forward to the anterior margin of the valve.
The most prominent feature of this species is the peculiar sharppointed girdle scales a character unique in this genus.
This species was described from Sydney.
Dr. Cox obtained specimens in Port Jackson showing great variation in color.
Angas found it at Port Lincoln.
Chiton jugosus lid.
A beautiful species abundant in Port Jackson.
Chiton Coxi ii.
sp.
Shell oblong strongly elevated carinated the side slopes straight Pleura loncjiindiixdhj grooved in front of the diagonal the surface elsewhere smooth.
Color delicate bluish mottled or blotched with olivebrown yellow and white.
Girdle a delicate bluegreen with narrow white bars.
Intermediate valves moderately beaked lateral areas smooth and loell raised central areas having a large smooth triangle in the middle the pie urn aeulptured with deep narroiv j mores separated by intervals about double their width and extending but a short distanee forimrd from the diagonal line except that the outer three or four irooves extend to the anterior edge of the tegmentum.
About U or 10 grooves may he counted on each side of a valve.
Anterior valve much larger than tlie posterior unsculptured.
Posterior valve having the muero acute about central distinctly projecting the posterior slope concave.
Interior bluish or creamy white sinus notched at the sides delicately denticulate.
Anterior valve having 8 intermediate valves 11 posterior valve 12 slits teeth pectinated outside and on the edge.
Girdle rather wide densely clothed with imbricating convex shining scales which are densely and most minutely striated have the usual low rounded outlines and measure in breadth 30 mm.
Length 18 breadth li mm.
 divergence 90 to 110.
Port Jackson Dr. J. C. Cox.
This is probably the Lophirii. jngoxiis of Angas P. Z. S.  1867 p. 222.
It is allied to  '.
jngosnx Gld.
but differs totally in colorpattern.
The girdle scales are smaller than in a secimen of jiigosiis of the same size the grooves in front of the diagonal line are narrower with wider interspaces etc.
Genus LOfilCELLA Pilsbry.
This name was proposed originally as a section of Lorica.
At that time I had seen no specimens of L. Angasi its type.
Several alcoholic examples are now before me showing features not before noticed which are undoubtedly of generic importance.
The group may be characterized as follows Gen.
char.
 Valves entirely exposed the front one very large having numerous unequal conspicuously pectinated teeth median valves squared having a narrow lilobed sinus slits 11 posterior valve small with posterior inucro the insertionplate reduced to a low ridge nearly smooth and interrupted by a slight sinus behind.
Girdle widest in front having a small slit behind  densely covered with minute elongated granules and hearing long branching bristles arranged in radial series.
In short Loricella has the general features of Lorica pln.s girdle 1804.
NATlTRAIi SCIENCES OF I'HIEADELPHIA.
87 hairs and with the girdle and tailvalve shaped like those of Pladphorelbi.
The hairs of the uirdle branch somewhat as in Mopalia ciliata.
There is no trace of eyes or eyepits upon the valves but the genus has doubtless descended from a form having eyes and its position in the general system will not differ from that assigned in my monograph of the Polyplacophora.
Loricella Angasi Ad.
Port Jackson several specimens collected by Dr. Cox.
It occurs also in South Australia.
The largest specimen I have seen is one sent by Mr. Bednall of Adelaide.
The presence of hairs upon a girdle with a dense covering of scales is an extremely rare if not unparalleled combination of chaxacters.
Genus LIOLOPHURA Pilsbry.
Liolophura Gaimardi Blaiuv.
1825.
 Chiton Gaimardi Blv. Diet.
8c.
Nat.
 xxxvi p. 546.
1846.
 'hitoi incaniis Gld. Proc.
Bot.
Soc.
N. H. ii p. 145.
1867.
 Cliitot ilcen. Angas P. Z. S. 1867 p. 223.
NotofGmel.
1874.
 .
'hitoii piceiisTa.p.
Can. Viag.
'Magenta' p. 77.
1893.
 Liolophura Gniviardi Pils. ISlau.
of Conch. xiv p. 240.
Collected abundantly at Port Jackson and Port Hacking by Dr. Cox.
This species has been confused by wiiters wnth Acxmihopleiira.
The latter genus is found in Australia only along the coast of tropical Queensland.
Three species of the genus LiolojyJtiira are now known from Australia  L. Gaimardi inhabiting the coast of New South Wales witli a variety in Queensland L. georrjiana Q. and G.  described from King George Sound S. W. Australia and L. curtisiana Smith from Port Curtis Queensland.
I have not seen the lastnamed species.
L. Gaimardi queenslandica ii.
var.
Valves similar in form and coloring to those of L. Gaimardi girdle covered with llack spines whih are somewhat more slender than in Gaimardi.
Length 50 breadth 31 mm.
dry specimen.
Larger than any of the typical form seen and distinguished by the uniform black color of the girdle.
Type is No.
64853 of the Academy collection taken by Dr. Cox at Bunlalnrg Queen.
'laud.
Genus ONITHOCHITON Gray.
Two species or at least forms of this genus are represented in the collections made by Dr. Cox at Port Jackson and Port Hacking.
The relations of 0.
Lyellil Sowb. jiierclnus Gld.
and niriilosiis Aug. are peculiarly perplexing and more material than is before me is required for a satisfactory revision of the group.
0. rugulosus Angas.
Port Jackson and I'ort Hacking Cox.
In this form tlie lateral areas are transversely rngose and the pleura have fine close irregular riblets converging toward the ridge.
0. quercinus Jould.
Port Jackson Cox.
I take this to be the form having the central areas nearly smooth with som riblets toward the outer edges of the pleura.
Probably intergrades with the preceding.
Explanation of Plates.
Plate U. Figs.
1 to 6.
AcanlhdcJtUc yraiiodriatitc Pilsbry.
Fig.
1.
Dorsal view of valve vii.
Fig 2.
Dorsal view of valve viii sutural lamina' broken.
Fig.
3.
Ventral view of valve viii sutural lamina broken.
Fig.
4.
Posterior view of valve viii.
Fig.
5.
Lateral view profile of valve viii.
Fig.
H. Sculpture of tlie middle of side area of an intermediate valve X 22.
Figs.
7 to 11.
Acanthochites Bednalll Pilsbry.
Fk.
7.
Dorsal view of valve vii.
Fig.
8.
Dorsal view of valve viii.
Fig.
9.
Posterior view of valve viii.
Fig.
10.
Lateral view of valve viii.
Fig.
11.
Sculpture of side area x 22.
Figs.
12 to 15.
Acanthorhlten retrojactHx Pilsbry.
Fig.
12.
Dorsal view of an intermediate valve.
Fig.
13.
Dorsal view of valve viii. '
Fig.
14.
Lateral view of valve viii.
Fig.
15 Ventral view of valve viii.
Plate III.
Figs.
10 to 20.
Acanthochites asbestoidcs Carpenter.
Fig.
16.
Veutral view of valve vi.
Fig.
1 7.
Dorsal view outline of valve vi.
Fig 18.
Lateral view of valve viii.
Fig.
19.
Ventral view of valve viii.
Fig.
20.
Dorsal view of valve viii.
Figs.
21 to 26.
Acanthochites Coxi Pilsbry.
Fig.
21.
Sculpture from middle of a sidearea x 22.
Fig.
22.
Posterior view of valve viii.
Fig.
23.
Lateral view of valve viii.
Fig.
24.
Dorsal view of valve viii.
Fig.
25.
Veutral view of valve viii.
Fig.
26.
Dorsal view of valve vii.
Plate IV Figs.
27 to 30.
Acanthochites Mattheicsi Bednall and Pilsbry.
Fig.
27.
Dorsal view of valve vii.
Fig.
28.
Dorsal view of valve viii.
Fig.
29.
Lateral view of valve viii.
Fig.
30.
Dorsal view of entire animal natural size.
Figs.
31 to 33.
Acanthochites speciosas H. Adams.
Fig 31 Dorsal view of valve viii.
Fig 32 Lateral view of valve viii.
Fig.
33.
Posterior view of valve viii.
Fig.
34 Acanthochites Coxi Pilsbry  dorsal view of an alcoholic specimen natural size.
Fig 36 Acanthochites retrojectus Pilsbry dorsal view of an alcoholic specimen natural size.
Fig.
37.
Acanthochites granostriatus Pilsbry dorsal view of an alcoholic specimen natural size.
