DESCRIPTION OF A NEW ARMADILLO, WITH REMARKS ON THE GENUS MULETIA GRAY.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
Tatusia (Muletia) propalatum Rhoads, sp.
nov. , Type No.
334fl, Col. Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., juv.
ad.
9.
''Baliia, Brazil, E. D.
Cope."
Size smaller than T. hyhrida Desm., with relatively longer and more slender tail, equalling length of body.
Free rings of tail, excluding basal superior half-ring and subterminal attached ring, 10.
The last, with remaining distal portion of tail, measuring onethird total length of tail.
Posterior edges of caudal rings flaring, giving the tail a roughly serrate outline.
Distal end ot tail very slender, pointed, the tesserae diamond shaped.
Basal tail rings with double row of tesserie, the basal row becoming relatively shorter nearest body while on the last (distal) rings the tesserse of both rows are of equal length in each ring.
Rows of tesserae on pelvic shield, counted near border and including the wide anterior semi-free ring, 22.
Free dorsal rings, 7, preceded anteriorly by wide posterior ring of shouldershield of tesserae similar in formation to dorsal rings.
Larger tesseme of free dorsal rings slender, wedge shaped, their posterior corners scarcely divided by the points of slender awl-shaped intervening tesseraj, the bases of latter, half the width of ends of former.
Rows of tessene on shoulder-shield counted near border, 17, similar in arrangement of tesser?e to those of pelvic shield.
Ears five-eighths length of head, finely scaled and set close together at base.
Crescentine coronal shield separated by a freely moving nexus of skin from frontal cephalic shield.
Three distinct rows of tesserte before and beneath the eye.
Frontal tessene relatively smaller than in other species of Tdtuskke.
Manus 4-toed, pes 5-toed.
From each papilla of protected lower parts springs a short, slender bristling hair of same color as skin, averaging onefourth inch in length.
Skin yellowish white.
Upper parts and tail amber yellowish, nose and ears near tips brownish, the toes of same color.
Skull slenderly and regularly pyriform.
Zygomatic width not exceeding the mastoid, tapering regularly to the rostrum.
Greatest depth of cranium over two-thirds its greatest width.
Interorbital width over two-thirds zygomatic width, the frontals nearly obscuring the orbital fossa as viewed from above.
Lachrymals triangular, lateral, not visible from above, their anterior apices overlying second posterior upper grinder.
Roof of mouth deeply grooved.
Palatal bones slightly hollowed centrally but without posterior raised edges.
Pterygoids rounded, divided by a slit 1 mm.
wide their entire length, reaching a slight postpalatal notch.
Palatal bones anteriorly reaching beyond anterior base of last upper molar.
Upper molar series H on a side : no indication of a seventh, on dissection.
Lower molar series 8 on a side, including a minute thread-like anterior premolar, evidently deciduous and widely separated from the next.
Coronoid process of mandible long and very slender.
Measurements.
— Body, along back, from fore end of shoulder shield to I'oot of tail, 115-'^; head and neck, from tip of nose to shoulder shield (above) 58; hind foot, 40; ear, from crown 29, its greatest width (flattened) 19.
Skull; occipito-nasal length, 48; zygomatic breadth, 21; interorbital constriction, 15; length of nasals, 15; basal length of upper molar series, 11; length of mandible, 34.
The type specimen is about two-thirds of the maximum development, judging by a series of skins and skulls of T. novemcincta.
Tatusia {Muletia) hybrida is the only described species with which it must be compared.
From hybrida in the Academy's collection it is distinguished by: 1 seven free dorsal bands; 2 longer slenderpointed tail; 3 comparative number of shoulder and pelvic girdle rows ; 4 absolute number of free caudal rings; 5 greater relative length of ears; 6 much gi'eater relative depth to width of cranium; 7 much greater relative interorbital width; 8 separation (lateral) of the pterygoids; 9 palatine bones reaching beyond anterior base of last upper molar (in hybrida they fall short of the molar series 1 mm.)
; 10 coronoid process slender from base to tip, (not triangular).
Dr. J. E. Gray in the Proceedings of the Loudon Zoological Society, 1874, page 244, redescribes the Short-tailed Armadillo, Tatusia hybrida (Desm.
), and places it in a new genus, which he calls Muletia, separating it trom Tatusia in the following diagnosis : "1 Tatusia.
Tail cylindrical, elongate, as long or longer than * Millimeters.
the body, of many rings and numerous caudal vertebrae.
Ears large.
Dorsal disk with 9-7 free bands.
Tatusia peba &c." "2.
Maletia.
— Tail short, depressed at base, not so long as the body, with thirteen rings and thirteen caudal vertebrae.
Ears small, dorsal disk with six free bands.
Muletia septemcinda &c." As above characterized, Dr. Gray's new genus is a fair sample of more than half the new genera proposed by him!
No very careful examination will show that the two species which he makes typical of these genera share equally some of the characters assigned as distinctive, while those given which are distinct are of doubtful generic or subgeneric value.
The number of free dorsal bands above is doubtfully of more than specific value between the numbers 10 and 6.
Tatusia novemcincta has from 8 to 10.
Desmarest says that ^^ Dasyjnis hjbridus" has "six ou sept bandes mobiles a la cuirasse."
However, in makiug an examination of the specimen above described as new, I was struck to find in it not only a superficial resemblance to T. hyhrida as compared with T. peba, but that it agreed with Dr. Gray's figure of hyhrida (1. c. PI.
XLI) in having only twelve upper teeth as against the fourteen or sixteen always present in T. novemcinda.
To convince myself of the constancy of this character I have examined several skulls of both species and found no exception.
In all the other plates of the various newly described Tatusiiue I have seen, in no case are they represented with less than fourteen upper teeth.
Should a more exhaustive examination show no exceptions, it would be proper to at least accord subgeneric rank to iLTw/eim, with the following diagnosis : Genus TATUSIA.
Tail longer than body, its first basal ring complete, the distal twothirds with a well-defined inferior median canal, increasing in depth with age, and in number to three and five near the extremity.
Caudal rings convex, each closely compressed posteriorly upon the next.
Dorsal disk with eight to ten free bands; upper molars, fourteen to sixteen; lower molars, ditto.
Type Tatusia novemcinda (Linn.)
Cuv.
Subgenus MULETIA.
Tail not exceeding length of body, not channeled distally.
Caudal rings with free, elevated posterior margins, the first basal seg.
ment a crescentine half-riug, clasping tlie superior anterior portion of second ring, the latter being produced forward beneath it.
Dorsal disk with six to seven free bands; upper molars, twelve; lower molars, fourteen to sixteen.
Type Tatiisia {Iluletia) hybrida (Desm.)
Gray.
The nine-banded Armadillo, Dasypus novemcinctus Linnjieus, Syst.
Nat., 1758, 51, has quite generally gone under the specific name peba of Desmarest, (Mamm.
1820, 368), who puts the f<eptemcinctus, odocinctus and novemcinchis of Linnreus, Erxleben and Boddaert among his synonyms, implying that these are composite species and indistinguishable.
The use of Desmarest's name j)eba is unwarranted, the original Linnsean description and references relating, in the main, unmistakably to the same animal.
The first reference to /)e/;« (Seba Mus.
I, p. 45, tab.
29, Fig, 1), is.
unmistakably the ninebanded species; see also his reference to Marcgrave.
Dr. Gray (sup.
cit.
pp.
245, 246), discusses the identity and synonymy of Tatusia hybrida (Desm.
), and names it T. septemcinda after Schreber (SJiugt., 1775, II, 220), who there describes a species which he considers the same as Linneeus' Dasypus of the same name, quoting the Systema Naturte, 12th edition, in which it is the same as in the 10th.
In these Linmeus describes a "Dasypus" — " D. cingulis septenis, palmis tetradactylis, '^ * * Habitat in Indiis. "
Schreber's description and figure fiurly represent what Dr. Gray chooses to call " Midetia septemcincta," but as this specific name was first applied by Linnaeus to an unrecognizable Armadillo _/ro»i India it is inapplicable to a six-banded Armadillo from South America.
Desmarest's Dasypus hybridus is the first indisputable name for a short-tailed, six or sevenbanded Tatusiah-om tropical America.
Dr. Gray's disgust at the barbarous name of hybridus, by which Desmarest probably referred less to the animal's pedigree than to its asinine ears, seems utterly inconsistent with the naming of his new genus.
As such, however, it may nominally be allowed to stand, not only as a warning to the future namer of names, but in the interests of an overburdened synonymy.
A REVISION OF THE GENUS ANOUS.
BY WITHER STONE.
Having recently had occasion to identify some specimens of Anous and make comparison with Gould's types of A. leucocapilliis and A. melanops, I was surprised to find what confusion existed in regard to the proper disposition of the names which have been proposed for several members of the genus.
With the object of straightening out the synonymy of the group I have made a careful study of the literature bearing upon the subject and have examined the large series of specimens in the museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and a number of specimens loaned to me by the U. S. National Museum through the kindness of Mr. Robert Ridgway.
The species of the genus Anous are separable into two groups, the larger dark colored birds (Anous) and the smaller light colored ones {Pwcelsterna).
Of the latter there seem to be two well marked species, A. caeruleus and A. cinereus, though Mr. Saunders, strange to say, unites them in his monograph of the Sterniuae (Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
1876, p. 671) ^^'^thout comment.
In regard to the dark colored species there has been no confusion in connection with the two large species, A. stolidus and A. galapagensis, but when we study the smaller species we immediately find difficulties.
Four names have been employed for the three recognizable species: Sterna tenidrostris Temm.
PI.
Col. 202 (1838).
Anous melanops Gould.
P. Z. S., XIII, p. 103 (1845).
Anous leucocapmus Gould.
P. Z. S., XIII, p. 103 (1845).
Anous melanogemjs Gray.
Gen, Birds, III, p. 661, PI.
182 (1849).
Gould's A. melanops is regax-ded by Mr. Saunders as a synonym of J., tenidrostris (Temm.)
and a comparison of the types with Temminck's plate amply confirms his decision.
The ^1.
leucocdpillus of Gould, however, is the bird which Mr. Saunders figures and identifies as A. melanogenys Gray.
What Gray's bird really is I am unable to say; if it is the species with which Mr. Saunders identifies it, the figure is certainly very poor, but the name will have to be considered a synonym of A. lemocapillus Gould.
The sooty brown-h\?ic\i species so well figured and described by Mr. Saunders (P. Z.
S, 1876, PL LXI, Fig.
3) as " ^.
leucocapillus Gould ' ' seems to be the most distinct of the three, but is, so far as I can ascertain, unnamed.
I therefore propose for it the name of A. atrofuscxts.
The following table will serve to distinguish the species : a.
General color of plumage sooty-brownish, or blackish slate.
b.
Size larger, wing 10 ins.
or more.
c. Plumage sooty -brown A. stolidus d .
Plumage darker, more slaty ... .A.
galapagensis h' .
Size smaller, wing 9 ins.
or less.
e. Plumage ^ooiy-hrown, white of head sharply defined posteriorly A. atrofnscus c' .
Plumage blackish slate, white of head shading gradually into the color of the back.
d. Lores light slate colored A. tenuirosirxs d'.
Lores jet black A. leucocapillus a'.
General color of plumage very light gray.
b.
Nearly pure white beneath A. cinereus b'.
Light gray beneath, nearly uniform with the back.
A. caeruleus Anous stolidus Linn.
Sterna doUda Linn., Syst.
Nat., 1, p. 227 (1766).
/Sterna /».9cato Linn., Syst.
Nat., 1, p. 228 (1766).
(Sterjia |)ifei^a Scop.
, Del.
Faun, et Flor.
Insu])r. , I, p. 92, No.
73 (1786).
Sterna senex Leach in Truckey's Exped.
to the Congo, App.
p. 408 (1818).
yluoits /lir/ey Steph.
, Shaw's Gen.
Zool., XIII, 1, p. 140, PI.
17 (1825).
Anous spadiacea Steph., Shaw's Gen.
Zool., XIII, 1, p. 143 (1825).
Sterna unicolor Hi ordm.,'Enn.yerz.y.
Thier andPfl., p. 17(1835).
Anous TO KSi<eaui Hartl., Beitr.
Orn.
Madagasc.
, p. 86 (1S60).
Hab.
Intertropical seas north to Gulf coast of United States.
Anous galapagensis Sharpc.
Aitoii-i gahqxigeims Shiu'pe, Traus.
Pbilos.
Soc, CLXVIII, 1879, p. 469.
Hab.
Galapagoes Islands.
Anous tenuirostris (Temm).
Sterna tenuirostris Temm., PI.
Col. 202 (1838).
Sterna melanops Gould., P. Z. S., XIII, p. 103 (1845).
Hab.
Senegal (Temminck), W. coast of Australia 'Gould).
Mauritius (Saunders).
The only specimens of this species that I have seen are the two types of Gould's, A. melanops, a male and female from Hartman's Abrolhos, Australia.
These differ slightly from the figure given by Mr. Saunders, for although the lores are light gray, they are uniform with the side of the neck rather than with the cap and there is a distinct line of deraarkation passing from the base of the upper mandible opposite the nostril to the upper edge of the eye, instead of from the gape as drawn in Mr. Saunders' figure.
This species is lighter colored than the next two and the cap is not so white, being nearly uniform pearl gray from the base of the bill to the nape.
Anous leucocapillus Gould.
Anous leucocapillus Gould, P. Z. S., XIII, p. 103 (1845).
f Anous melanogenys G. R. Gray, Gen.
Birds III, p. 661, PI, 182 (1849).
Anous melanogenys Saunders, P. Z. S., 1876, p. 670.
Hab.
Raines Isl., Australia (Gould); Nilian Hawaiian Isls.
(U. S. N. M.
coll.)
British Honduras (U. S. N. M.
coll.)
Dangerous Archipelago (U. S. N. M.
coll.)
The jet black lores and the darker slate black plumage readily distinguish this from the preceding species while the very different tint of the plumage and the difference in extent of the white on the head separate it from the following.
Two specimens in the U. S. National Museum collection, one labelled " Dangerous Archipelago " and the other "Pacific Ocean" belong to this species, and it is probable that all the remarks in the Reports of Peale and Cassin refer to this bird.
This seems to be the most abundant species of the genus after A. stolidus.
Anous atrofuscus sp.
nov. Anous leucocapillus Saunders, P. Z. S. , 1876, p. 670, not A. leucocaplUus Gould.
Hah.
Bristow Isl., New Guinea (Saunders).
Montevideo (Coll.
A. N. S.
Phila.)
The &ro«'»-black color of the plumage and the uniform white of the crown, sharply contrasted with the brown of the neck easily distinguish this species.
Mr. Saunders' figure (P. Z. S., 1876, PI.
LXI, Fig.
3) is an excellent representation of this bird, although in the specimens before me the white of the head does not extend quite so far back.
Description.
— General color above and below uniform sooty broivnblack, primaries black, lores, immediately in front of the eyes rather blacker than the sides of the head.
Crown from base of bill to occiput nearly pure white with the line of demarkation between the white and general color of the hind neck very sharply defined.
Wing 8 -75 inch, culmen 1-80.
Type.
— No.
5,027 collection Acad.
Nat.Sci.
Philada.
(from the collection of the Duke of Rivoli) " Mer de Montevideo."
One other specimen is in the collection of the Philadelphia Academy (No.
5, 028) which was collected in the Southern Pacific by J. K. Townsend.
Anous cinereus Gould.
Anous cuiereus Gould, P. Z. S. 1845, p. 104.
Hab.
E. Coast of Australia (Gould).
Anous caeruleus (Bennett).
Sterna caerulea Bennett, Narr.
Whaling Voy.
round the Globe, II, Appendix, p. 248(1840).
Anous parvulus Gould, P. Z. S., XIII, p. 104(1845).
Hab.
South Pacific; Christmas Isl.
(Bennett), Dog Isl.
(Peale, U. S. Exp'l.
Exped.
spec, in U. S. Nat.
Mus.
).
