THIRD ADDITION TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE BATRACHIA AND REPTILIA OF COSTA RICA.
BY E. D. COPE.
The present paper is a continuation of the subject which has been treated in several contributions and is preliminary to a second illustrated memoir which it is hoped will present the subject in some completeness.
The last Addition appeared in the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society for 1893 p. 333 and the illustrated memoir was published in the Journal of this Academy for 1875.
I am indebted to the Museo Nacional of San Jose for the opportunity of examining the material here described.
BATRACHIA.
URODELA.
Edipus robustus sp.
nov.
Size large  proportions robust.
Twelve costal folds.
One phalange of digits free as in ffi.
morio except in the inner first digits which are entirely enclosed.
Extended limbs separated by two intercostal spaces.
Head flat wide  muzzle short its truncation little conspicuous no canthus rostralis.
Width of head entering length to groin five times.
Eye small its fissure equaling onefourth the width of the head and less than the interorbital space.
Vomerine sei'ies straight in the transverse direction  extending beyond the nares externally and abruptly recurved at the internal extremity toward the parasphenoid patch which they do not reach.
Parasphenoid patch not divided anteriorly.
Tail rounded the extremity moderately compressed.
A gular fold.
Color uniform plumbeous  soles paler.
Dimensions 206 mm.
 length of head and body 98 mm.
 to gular fold 22 mm.
 width of head at rictus oris 16.5 mm.
 length of anterior limb 20 mm.
 do.
of fore foot 6.
5 mm.
 length of posterior limb 21.5 mm.
 do.
of hind foot 6 mm.
 width of do.
at base of fifth digit 7 mm.
This is the largest salamander of tropical America equaling in length the Spelerpc. hellii Gray.
Ft resembles in appearance the unicolor form of that species but differs in its proportions as well as in the generic character displayed by the feet.
The muzzle is longer and more broadly truncate and the head is narrower than in the S. helUi.
In the latter the eye is larger equaling the width of the interorbital space plus that of an eyelid and is little less than half the width of the head posteriorly.
One specimen No.
226 from the Faldas of the volcano of Irazu from J. P. Cooper.
SALIENTIA.
Hyla cherrei sp.
nov. Vomerine teeth few opposite the middle of the very large choanse at the apex of a ridge which proceeds from the antei'ior margin of the latter.
Ostia pharyngea round large but smaller than choanse.
Tongue longer than wide but little free and openly notched posteriorly.
Tympanic drum distiuct onehalf the area of eye and equal in vertical diameter.
Iris dark.
Man us almost without web  pes fully palmate.
Thumb not opposed.
Heel of extended hind limb reaching end of muzzle.
Canthus rostralis straight angular lores vertical.
Width of interorbital space 1.5 times the width of an eyelid.
External nostrils terminal a little nearer the eye than the diameter of the latter.
Muzzle not prominent vertical in profile.
Skin smooth above.
Head and body above pigmented probably with yellow in abrupt contrast to the color of the rest of the integument from which it is separated from the orbit to the sacrum by a narrow white stripe.
Colors otherwise uniform strawcolor the limbs pigmented on the exposed surfaces  the humerus and femur not pigmented.
Length of head and body 26 mm.
 do.
of head to canthus oris 5 mm.
 width of head at do. 8 mm.
 length of fore limb 17 mm.
 of fore foot 6 mm.
 length of hind limb 45 mm.
 do.
of hind foot 20 mm.
 do.
of astragalocalcaneum 8.5 mm.
No.
253 Alajuela R. Alfaro.
This small and brightly colored species differs from all others known to me in the combination of characters it presents.
The sharp canthus rostralis anterior vomerine teeth elongate tongue large choanse and webless fingers are not found together in any other species.
It is dedicated to Mr. Geo.
K. Cherrie of San Jose to whom I am indebted for the opportunity of studying the present collection.
Hylella chrysops sp.
nov. Head short wide canthus rostralis wanting.
Tongue a little longer than wide faintly emarginate  ostea pharyngea each a transverse slit.
Tympanum not visible.
Pupil a dumbbell shaped horizontal slit in the golden iris.
Heel of extended hind limb reaching to end of muzzle.
The muzzle is as long as the diameter of the eye and does not project beyond the lips  nostrils terminal.
The fingers are onethird webbed the thumb free and at least as long as the short third second digit.
Hallucal tubercle minute  pallets well developed.
Color above and below yellow  pigment more conspicuous on edges of eyelids.
No markings of any kind except that one specimen is covered above with rather distinct minute black specks.
Total length 22 mm.
 length of head to canthus oris 6 mm.
 width at do. 8 mm.
Length of anterior limb 13.5 mm.
 do.
of anterior foot 6 mm.
 do.
of posterior limb 36 mm.
 do.
of hind foot 15 mm.
 do.
of astragalocalcaneum 7 mm.
No.
252 Alajuela R. Alfaro  492 San Jose P. Biolley.
This small and brilliant species is related distantly to the H. plaiycephala Cope from the West Coast of Mexico.
In that species the canthus rostralis and the tympanum are well marked and the size is larger.
Lithodytes euryglossus sp.
nov. A large species with small pallets in which the heel does not reach the end of the muzzle although it extends to a point anterior to the eye.
General appearance that of a LepfofJacfijlas.
No distinct canthus rostralis  end of muzzle sloping backwards from lipborder.
Tympanic disc a vertical oval of which the long diameter is twothirds that of the eye.
Nostril nearer the end of the muzzle than its distance from the orbit.
Tongue wider than long openly notched posteriorly.
Choame moderate.
Vomerine teeth in two transverse series on transverse ridges whose anterior borders are in line with the posterior borders of the choaiue and whose external borders are a little within the internal borders of the choaue. Ostia pharyngea larger than choame.
Pallets distinct but small smallest on the manus.
Digits without dermal margins.
First and second fingers equal.
Inteiiument everywhere smooth.
A discoidal abdominal fold.
A fold on the distal half of the external border of the tarsus extending to a rather prominent prtehallucal tubercle.
Color above brownish leadcolor  below whitish.
Groin reticulate and sides punctate with the dorsal on the ventral color.
Four brown spots on the upper lip anterior to the line of the tympanum and a black sti'eak above and behind the tympanum.
A blackish crossband between the posterior parts of the orbits and some black longitudinal spots on the dorsolateral region bounding upwards the paler color of the sides.
Limbs with obscure blackish crossbands.
Thighs behind whitish at base and obscurely reticulate on the superior and distal portions.
Limbs below and gular region clouded.
Total length of head and body 75 mm.
 do.
of head to line of cauthus oris 19 mm width of head at do. 28 mm.
Length of anterior limb 40 mm.
 do.
of head 18 mm.
 do.
of posterior limb 115 mm.
 do.
of hind foot 50 mm.
 do.
of astragalocalcaneum 20 mm.
This is the largest species of Lifhodytes but it is less robust than the L. gulosiis Cope.
In general appearance it resemlles one of the large species of Leptodadylus but it is a true Hylodine with Tshaped terminal phalanges.
It has some resemblance to L. melanostictus but that species has much longer hind limbs larger pallets an oval tongue etc.
A single specimen of the L. euryglosHus is in the collection which was taken at San Jose by Sen. P. Biolley No.
448.
Levirana vibicaria gen. et sp.
nov. Char.
gen.  Identical with Ramda but thout vomerine teeth.
Char specif.
 Form robust muzzle short wide  hind limbs rather short the heel reaching to the front of the eye.
Canthus rostralis strongly marked angulated at the nostril anterior to which it is deflected to the apex which does not project beyond the lipborder.
Loral region slightly concave nostril nearly on canthus 6 the length of the muzzle anterior to the orbit.
Tympanic drum subround about u the diameter of the eyeslit.
Choana rather small about equal to ostia phaiyngea.
Tongue large obovate deeply emarginate posteriorly.
Digits with slight terminal enlargements those of the fingers scarcely distinct those of the toes supported by elongate Tshaped phalanges.
Second first finger a little shorter than third second inferior tubercles inconspicuous.
Toes halfwebbed fourth digit with three the others with two free phalanges.
Sole with one tubercle the flat oval prehallux.
Integument smooth everywhere.
A wide glandular body connecting rictus oris and humerus  a glandular thickening extending from orbit to end of urostyle which is unusually wide between the orbit and the sacrum.
No dermal folds.
Color above a dark olivaceous gray side of head and a stripe from orbit to urostyle black.
Two rows of small black spots on each side of the vertebral column.
Superior side of limbs colored like the back.
Inferior surfaces of the body yellowish more distinctly yellow on inferior surfaces of hind limbs.
Concealed surface of femur with a reddish tinge unspotted.
Superior face of femur with a black stripe on the distal half.
Lips unspotted with a dark shaded border.
Length of head and body 65 mm.
 do.
of head to rictus oris 21 mm.
 width of head at rictus oris 25 mm.
 length of fore limb 40 mm.
 of hand 15 mm.
 length of hind limb 101 mm.
 of hind foot 49 mm.
 of astragalocalcaneum 10 ram.
No.
3912 Rancho Redondo on the divide of the Irazu Range 39156 Isla Nueva near the head of the RioSucio on the Atlantic side  all taken by G K. herrie.
This distinct species is probably an inhalntant of the elevated mountain region and it has so far escaped the observation of collectors who have mostly exlored lower elevations.
It is not nearly related to any species hitherto known.
REPTILIA.
LACERTILIA.
Cnemidopliorus amivoides sp.
nov.
Eight abdominal rows of subequal plates a row of plates at the gular fold which with a few granules form its border.
A group of about 18 enlarged posterior gular scales which does not have a transverse posterior liorder separating it from smaller scales.
Nostrils in nasal suture.
Three supraoibitals a small plate occupying an angular space between the second and third at the external edge on both sides.
Two interparietals and one parietal followed by three rows of smaller plates.
Five infralabials in the second large row.
Sixteen femoral pores.
Four preanal plates larger than those surroundinii' them two of them transverse and posterior and two longitudinal and anterior.
Tliree rows of brachial plates the anterior continuous with the posterior of two rows of antebrachials.
No postantebrachials.
Four rows of plates on inferior side of femur at middle and two rows on inferior side of tibia.
Color above dark brown with three narrow yellowish stripes on each side which proceed respectively from the temple and from the superior and inferior borders of the tympanum.
The inferior stripe is more or less broken into elongate spots.
The space between the superior and median stripes is marked by black crossbars and a row of black spots extends along the inner side of each of the superior stripes.
A light stripe on the posterior face of the femur which is continued on the tail.
Below this stripe on the femur another less perfect stripe and above it a longitudinal row of spots.
Tibia with small light spots.
Upper surface of femur and tibia brown blackish varied.
Inferior surfaces pale greenishblue top of head light lirown.
Length of head and body 64 mm.
 length to edge of gular fold 21 mm.
 do.
to auricular meatus 15 mm.
 width of head at rictus oris 11 mm.
Length of fore limb from axilla 21 mm.
 length of fore foot 10 mm.
 length of hind leg from canthus ani 45 mm.
 do.
of hind foot 24 mm.
This species resembles very much the younger specimens of the Amiva iindujata but is a true Cnemidophorus with sagittiform tongue.
It differs in specific characters from both that species and the A. quadrillneaia in the possession of three rows of brachial scuta instead of one.
In coloration it differs from the young striped stages of those species in having three light stripes on each side instead of two.
The longitudinal division of the interparietal plate is a marked peculiarity but may be abnormal.
The two plates together however are larger in dimensions than a single interpainetal.
Among C'nemidophori it is nearest to the C. lemniscatus in appearance but it differs in almost all points of squamation of the head and throat.
No.
286 La Carpiutera  A. Alfaro.
Ciiemidopliorus alfaronis sji.
nov. Allied to C. deppei.
Nostril entirely in nasal plate  first loreal bordering first three labials second loreal higher than long.
Supraorbital plates four on one side and five on the other the first quite small the third and fourth broader than long.
Interparietals and the single parietals longer than the frontoparietals.
Infralabials eight median gulars enlarged all the way across graded scales of mesoptychium large in two or three rows no granules on the border.
Abdominal plates in eight rows  large brachials in six rows continuous with brachials  no postantebrachials.
Six rows of femorals at middle.
Femoral pores nineteen.
Preanal plates about a dozen in a triangular patch continuous with the ventrals.
Extended hind foot reaches to orbit.
Four white lines on each side and a vertebral line.
Spaces between first and second and dorsally between fourths of opposite side greenishgray space between second and fourth black.
Head paler below greenishwhite.
Posterior limbs with four irregular longitudinal lines one anterior two superior and one posterior.
Total length 170 mm.
 length to vent 55 mm.
 do.
to collar 19 mm.
 length of fore liml 20 mm.
 do.
of hind limb 41 mm.
 do.
of hind foot 23 ram.
This species resembles in general appearance the C deppci deppei but the scutellation is materially different.
An important character is the presence of four supraorbital plates from the last of which a fifth may be cut off.
The parietals and interparietals are also relatively longer than in that species.
No.
216 San Mateo found by Sen. Anastasio Alfaro Director of the Museo Nacional to whom the species is dedicated.
Celestus cyanochloris sp.
nov. Scales in thirtythree longitudinal series all with about a dozen longitudinal keels and no prominent median keel except on the tail beyond the base.
The scales of the tail are roofshaped so that the lateral edges run in open furrows while the middle line is prominent.
The striations extend not only to the head but the parietal and interparietal plates are grooved and iidged.
The rostral and symphyseal plates are of equal width.
Two postnasals two ireloreals and two postloreals one above the other in each pair.
A large preocular two suboculars the posterior elongate and four postoculars.
Four external and four internal supraorbitals.
Parietals wider than the triangular interparietal each three times as large 1 For definition of the subspecies of C. deppei see Transiic.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc 1892 p. 30. as the wellseparated frontoparietals and bounded by five scales between the frontoparietal and the single transverse postparietal.
Frontal twice as Avide as long.
Eight superior labials to end of long subocular the second reaching to the middle of the postnasal only.
Auricular meatus horizontal shorter than eye fissure.
Extended limbs separated by the length of the anterior foot only.
Color above light goldengreen with several indistinct longitudinal rows of paler spots as large as a scale mingled with as many brown spots as large as a scale.
Sides paler than back.
Lower surfaces blue paler on chin and tail.
Total length end of tail lost 151mm.
 do.
to vent 70 mm.
 do.
to line of axilla 16 mm.
 do.
of fore limb 16.5 ram.
 do.
of hind limb 22 mm.
 of hind foot 11 mm.
This species is allied to the C. steindachnerii Cope.
The latter has seven superior labials instead of eight of which the second reaches the loreal as it does not in C. eijatioclilons the postnasals are much shorter.
The scales of the anterior regions and parietal plates are smooth and the color is totally different.
The limbs are shorter.
This handsome species whose coloration is unique m the genus was found by Sen. Juan Cooper on the volcano of Irazu No.
217.
OPHIDIA.
ASINEA.
Trimetopon pliolepis sp.
uov.
In the genus Trimetopon Cope I find that the hemipenis has a simple sulcus spermaticus and that the apex for a space on each side of the sulcus is feebly calyculate.
The rest of the surface is occupied by spines which are in longitudinal series and are largest opposite the sulcus at the lower part of the hemipenis.
The genus is then to be regarded as one of the Colubrina allied to Contia.
A single species the T. gracile Gthr. has been described hitherto which is also from Costa Rica.
I only know it from the description and figures of Giinther in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History for 1872 p. 16.
Char specif.
 Scales in seventeen rows like the plates of the head with iridescent refulgence and without fossse.
Rostral plate not visible from above  internasals much wider than long anterior border of frontal slightly convex forwards.
Lateral border of frontal shorter tlian the parietal border which forms less than a rioht ano'le with that of the opposite side.
Loreal longer than high oculars 11 the anterior well separated from frontal by superciliary.
Temporals 11 superior labials eight fourth and fifth entering orbit all longer than high except the eighth.
Inferior labials eight fifth largest and in contact with postgenial.
Postgenials half as long as pregenials.
Total length 287 mm.
 of tail 76 mm.
Gastrosteges 154 anal 11 urosteges 69.
Dark brown above the scales with a paler minutely speckled center except those of the third row.
This together with the more restricted pale centers of the scales of the first and second rows gives the appearance of a dark lateral band which tips the gastrosteges.
Below uniform yellow.
A narrow yellow collar borders and does not cross the extremities of the parietal plates.
Each upper labial with a large yellow spot next the border that at the top of the sixth and front of the seventh has the effect of a postocular band.
This species differs from the type in the scale formula.
In the T. gracile the scales are in fifteen rows the oculars are 12 and there are but seven superior labials.
The coloration is more obscure.
No.
451 San Jose P. Biolley.
Drymobius paucicarinatus sp.
nov. Scales in seventeen rows the five median only keeled and that faintly.
Oculars 12  preocular not reaching frontal  loreal subquadrate longer than high.
Temporals 12 four and a half scales bordering each parietal.
Superior labials nine fourth fifth and sixth in orbit  eighth and ninth longer than high.
Eye large its diameter equaling length of muzzle from its border to the nostril and equaling a little over half of the iuterocular width  equal also length from rostral to frontal plate equal length of frontal plate and exceeding a little the length of the common parietal suture.
Frontal plate wide in front contracting rapidly posteriorly lateral borders very little concave.
Ten inferior labials.
Postgenials longer than pregenials.
The scales are not much narrowed and those of the sides are rather wide.
Total length 1230 ram.
 tail 415 mm.
 length to canthus oris axial 265 mm.
Gastrosteges 183 anal 11 urosteges 127.
Color above brown without markings below yellow ends and a narrow transverse line near base of gastrosteges lead colored.
Upper lip except upper parts of Nos.
234 8 and 9 yellow.
No.
116 La Candelaria Bruno Carranza.
This species is allied to tlie D. percarinatus Cope Proceeds.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc 1894 p. 344 but differs in the much smaller number of more feebly keeled scales in the shorter and wider head and in the coloration.
Dr. Giinther has united under the head of the Dendrophidlinn deudrophis Dnjmobiis dendropltis Schl. Fauna CentraliAmericana 1894 the species Driimobins cldoroficus and Crossadhera melaiwtropis Cope.
Bocourt has pointed out that the genus Dendrophidium differs from Drymohius in the entire anal plate and I have not ftund any variability in this respect in the specimens at my disposal.
In the D. dendroplds the eye is larger its long diameter exceeding the width of the superciliary and frontal plates together while in the species mentioned above and the D. percarinatus and D. rhombifer Pet. the diameter of the eye either equals the width of those plates or more fi'equently is considerably less.
The Crosmnthera mdanotropis further differs in the short occipital plates whose middle suture is considerably less than the diameter of the orbit while it is the same in the D. deiidropJm.
Leptophis ultramarinus sp.
uov.
The relation of this species to those already known may be shown in the following table.
I mention here that a study of the species shows that it is impossible to keep apart as a separate genus Pti7othamnus the species with smooth scales.
I. Scales all smooth.
Nine superior labials.
Scales above blue tipped with golden  scuta and two inferior rows of scales golden with green bases  no stripes L. ortonii Cope.
II.
Three median rows smooth two or three on each side keeled.
Eight supralabials  green with black median lines on two or three dorsal rows of scales pale oblique crosslines on the anterior half of the body L. sargii Fisch.
III.
Five median dorsal rows keeled.
Eight supralabials above uniform ultramarine blue  below and one and a half rows of scales with upper lip silvery L. ultramarinus Cope.
IV.
Eleven to thirteen rows of scales keeled.
Supralabials eight or nine silvery with a wide blue dorsal band sometimes obscure in alcohol smaller L. alaetulla L. Supralabials nine  robust  uniform green  smaller L. occidentalis Gthr.
Supralabials nine  green head plates and scales all black bordered L. marginatum Cope.
Rupralabials nine uniform green the keels of the scales except those of the median row llack size large L. prcestans Cope.
The L. ultramarinns is further characterized by the large size of its eye whose diameter equals the length of the muzzle to the rostral plate exclusive.
The preocular reaches the frontal.
Temporals 12 the anterior in contact with the inferior postocular only.
Each parietal is bounded by only three plates with half of a median plate.
Seventh and eighth superior labials longer than deep.
Nine inferior labials in contact with the genials up to the seventh.
Postgenials a little longer than pregenials.
General form slender tail long about onethird the total length gastrosteges feebly angulated 168 anal 11 urosteges 176.
Total length 1050 mm.
 tail 425 mm.
Besides the colors above described there may be added that the preorbital labials are bordered with blue above and the last two labials are entirely blue.
There are no stripes or lines of any kind.
No.
108 PazoAzul J. C. Zeledon.
Pogonaspis ruficeps gen. et sp.
nov. Char.
gen.  Posterior maxillary tooth elongate grooved other teeth numerous small present on the usual bones of the mouth.
Pupil round.
Cephalic plates normal two nasals no loreal.
One pair of genials anal plate and urosteges double.
Scales smooth without apical fossa extensively imbricate.
In the hemipenis the sulcus spermaticus is single and the apex is calyculate.
On the side opposite the sulcus is a wide welt which is bordered by spines whose bases are connected by transverse flounces.
Surface on each side of welt coarsely spinous.
This genus is probably more nearly allied to Tantilla than to any other.
The head of the only known species is rather more distinct than is usual in that genus.
The tail is probably elongate.
It diflers from TaidiUa in the large single genial plate.
Char specif.
 Rostral plate rounded obtuse visible from above internasals small prefrontals large descending laterally and touching second superior labial.
Frontal elongate slightly angulate in front acute posteriorly parietals elongate.
Nostril in posterior part of prenasal  postnasal elongate separated from preocular by suture between prefrontal and second labial.
Oculars 12 preocular well removed from frontal  temporals 11 superior labials seven  the first bounds the postnasal below the second the prefrontal and the preocular third and fourth enter orbit fifth and sixth lower than the large seventh.
Inferior labials only six  those of the first pair in contact behind the symphyseal  the fourth elongate terminating opposite the end of the long genial.
Gastrosteges 146 anal 11 urosteges 20  a considerable part of the tail lost.
Length to vent 223 mm.
 do.
to rictus oris 9 mm.
Color in alcohol above light brown below yellow.
INIedian dorsal row of scales deep brown a narrow yellow line on the adjacent borders of the third and fourth rows of scales which is bounded above by a single dark brown row and below by several rows with dark brown centers growing paler towards the gastrosteges.
All the colors are less conspicuous posteriorly.
Upper surface of head light reddishbrown with a pale spot at the extremity of each parietal plate.
Upper lip yellow with a black spot below eye  lower labial plates with brown borders gular region unspotted.
No.
141 Jimenez  A. Alfaro.
Enulius torquatus Giintlier.
Leplocalamns loiqiiatus Giinther.
Aim.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 1872 p. 16.
This specimen gives me the 0portunity of examining the hemienis of this genus.
I find that it is undivided but that the sulcus is bifurcate near the extremity.
The surface of the organ is marked with longitudinal laminre only and these are set with numerous small spines to the apex.
The larainre are separated by deep grooves.
As already described by me there are very few teeth in the mouth.
These consist of a few small ones at the posterior part of the maxillary bone with one or two near the junction of the palatine and pterygoid and a few on the anterior half of the dentary.
The large posterior tooth is incurved and flattened and has a thin blade with a cutting edge posteriorly.
The groove is fine if present.
This arrangement reminds of the characters of the genus Elaehistodoir Reinhdt. of  Americau Naturalist 1893. p. 477. which the sole species is found in the Paleotropical Realm.
The few teeth of Eniilius are however hetter developed than in Elnrhidodon whose real affinities are as yet uncertain.
Ennlius is probably allied to Scytale since it not only enters the Scytalinic as defined in my paper on the characters of the hemipenis but in the prominent rostral plate it resembles the S. neovidii D.  B. July 8.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Twelve persons present.
July 10.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
EiEfhteen persons present.
A paper entitled Third Addition to a Knowledge of the Batrachia and Reptilia of Costa Rica by E. D. Cope was presented for publication.
July 17.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Ten persons present.
July 24.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
The death of Samuel L. Smedley July 21 1894 was announced.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication   Patella Kermadecensis by H. A. Pilsbry.
A Contribution to the Life History of the Allegheny Cave Rat Neotoma niagister Baird by Samuel N. Rhoads.
July 31.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Eleven persons present.
The following were ordered to be printed   PATELLA KERMADECENSIS.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
In October 1893 the writer received from E. W. Roper Esq. of Revere Mass. two specimens of a very large and ponderous species of Patella which Mr. Roper had obtained from a New Zealand collector to whom they had been brought from the Kerraadec Islands.
Upon corapai'iug these shells with the collection of Patellidte in the Museum of the Academy and with the recent monograph of the group in the Manual of Conchology it became evident that they represented an undescribed species.
At Mr. Roper's request a brief description was prepared for publication which some months later appeared in the Nautilus under the name Patella kennadecensis.
After this description was printed but before the number containing it was generally distributed the writer in his capacity as Editor of the Nautilus received a description of the same species under the same name from Dr. Wm.
H. Dall the distinguished malacologist of the National Museum.
As Ball's specimens are more depressed than those described by myself and his series includes young shells preserving the sculpture I have therefore quoted his description in full below and have reproduced drawings of his type kindly supplied by him on plate VII.
Some time previous to the publication of the original description Mr. Geo.
W. Taylor of Victoria B.
C a gentleman who has devoted special attention to the Patellidtu received specimens of the same species apparently from the same original source.
He prepared a description of them but not being thoroughly satisfied of the novelty of the form delayed publication.'
The species has also been noticed by Mr. John Brazier wellknown for his lifelong labors on the Australian mollusca.
Mr. Brazier formed a theory that these limpets were not from the Kerraadec Islands but from South Africa  and as the specific name kermadecen' Mr. Taylor submitted one of his young shells of this species to the junior editor of the Nautilus who showed it to me.
I did not recognize in it the '.
kermadeccnsis so ditlerent are the young from the ponderous corroded adult shells which alone I had seen.
1894.
NATUllAf.
SCIENCKS OF PHILADEIjPHIA.
209 si. would in that case be a misnomer he proposed to renarae the form Patella Pihhryi Brazier.'
Since Mr. Brazier has given no proof whatever in support of his hypothesis and as we have every reason to believe it without foundation in fact the necessity for this proposed change of name is not apparent.
In support of the original statement that P. kermadecensis inhabits the Kermadec Islands I am now tible to quote the following passages from a letter' received from my friend Charles Hedley of the Australian Museum  There can be no doubt that it P. kermadecensis' really inhabits the Kermadecs. 
Mr. Charles Spencer of Auckland a leading New Zealand collector has just given me a most circumstantial account of it.
He says a great number were collected at the orders and by the crew of Capt.
Fairchild of the government steamer  Hinemoa while on an official visit to Raoul or Sunday Island the principal island of the group.
Most of these passed into the hands of Mr. Eric Craig a natural history dealer of Auckland who distributed them to various correspondents throughout the world.
The literarv history of this species is thus seen to have been much more extensively exploited than its natural history.
The references to the books are as follows  Patella Sctdellastra kermadecensis Pilsbrv The Nautilus vii p. 106 Feb. 1894.
Patella kermadecensis Taylor tout cit. p. 142.
Patella kermaderensix Dall MS. Jan. 1894.
Patella pilsbryi Brazier Abstract of Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
 N. S. Wales meeting of April 25 1894 p. iii.
P. kermadecensis may be compared with two previously described species P. yigantea Lesson and P. pica Reeve.
The former is I do not doubt quite distinct.
The original description by which alone it is known is as follows   ''Patelle Gigantesque.
Patella gigantea Less. Cette coquille tresfruste en dessus n'avait pas moins de 7 pouces de longueur sur 5 de largeur.
Sa forme est massive tresepaisse oval aire convexe a sommet submedian a limbe ovale allonge plus dilate en arriere.
L' animal doit etre enorme' car il laisse a la voiite de la face interne Abstract of Proc.
Linn.
Soc N. S. WalcH April 25 1894 p. iii.
' Written under date of June IS 1894.
15 une impression tres marquee que borde une profoude depression en fer u cheval.
Le limbe est simple epais.
L'interieur est lisse blancbatre avec le fond rougeatre.
Sa i'nce superieure etait rougee et couverte de tubes de serpules. 
Nous ti'ouvames cette graude coquille jetee sur les rochers de corail de I'ile de Borabora dans I'arcbipel de la Societe.
 The dimensions given by Lesson 5x7 inches indicate a much more oblong shell than any known specimens of kermadecensis and the coloring of the interior differs also.
The difference in outline may be most readily appreciated by plotting an ovate contour with the axes 5x7 inches and comparing with a contour of kennadecends.
P. pica Reeve if it is the same as P. kennadecensis is a very young specimen.
The description and illustrations may be found in Reeve's Conchologia Iconica vol.
viii pi.
xix figs.
45 ac.
The type if still preserved is in the British Museum and should be compared with young specimens of kermadecensis of the same size.
The types of P. kermadecensis may be described as follows   Shell large thick and heavy  roundovate slightly narrowed in front broadly rounded behind conical the apex central.
Altitude of cone nearly equal to half the breadth of the base but decidedly less than half the length slopes straight.
Surface dull and much corroded by various parasitic growths calcareous alga3 and young Patellas apparently of the same species leaving but little of the original sculpture which seems to have consisted of numerous rather low radiating ribs the interspaces and ribs covered with a secondary sculpture of radial riblets.
Interior whitish more or less tinted with gray or dull reddish the muscle impression and the edge of the shell either white or deep salmon colored.
Border of shell slightly crenulated by tlie external sculpture.
Muscleimpression strongly marked roughened and either impressed or thickened and like a shelf or terrace.
Dimensions of tAVO specimens  Length 186 breadth 116 altitude 55 ram.
119.5  104  50  These siiells are decidedly more elevated than the examples in the collection of Mr. Taylor who writes as follows    My suite of kermadecensis consists of two fullgrown shells and a ' Voy.
de lii Coquille Zool. II p. 423 1830.
Sec also '.
crassa Lesson ibid. p. 413 .said to be from New .South Wales.
series of twelve others rauging from 75 mm.
dowu to 6 mm.
in leiigtli.
The large ones are respectively 180 x 109 x 41 mm.
and 130 x 109 x 84 mm. being both considerably flatter than the specimens described by Mr. Pilsbry. '
'All my specimens are distinctly narrowed in front and in this particular the species differs essentially from P. patriarcha which is veiy round in outline.
I have a specimen of patriarcha exactly the same width as the two shells above mentioned namely 109 mm. but its length is only 119 mm.
Our species is further distinguished by its sculpture from hoth pat r id re ha and mexicana  the ribs being narrower and much more numerous than in patriarcha and decidedly heavier than in mexicana.
Every 5th or 6th rib in the adult shell seems to be more prominent. '
'  Dr. Wm.
H. Dall's description of younger and less eroded examples than the types here follows   Patella Helcioniscus 
kermadecensis.
Soft parts unknown but the aspect of the shell is that of a Heldoniscus.
Shell large depressed or only moderately elevated porcellanous radiately sculptured with the apex of the shell slightly anterior to the center erect blunt or eroded color outside orangeyellow sometimes more or less scorched with purplishblack obscurely concentric or radiating in its disposition frequently asymmetrical  inside polished opaquewhite cream color or even orange color with a very narrow colored margin of orange white or black following the tint of the exterior  the muscular impressions not polished sometimes darker orange than the rest the enclosed area usually much the same color as that outside the scars but sometimes lighter or with faint brown or flesh colored stains irregularly distributed  muscular scars catenate not symmetrical with about seven segments on each side  an obscure line probably indicating the scope of the mantle is visible within the colored margin and this is emphasized to the left of nnd in front of the head where a strongly marked sinus extends toward the apex close to and in front of the left arm of the pedal scar and ceasing at the junction of the latter with the scar of the mantle over the head  this is distinctly indicated in all the specimens but is less prominent in the younger specimens and recalls the sinus of Gadiniii though on a much larger scale the margin of the shell is rendered slightly irregular by the sculpture and is as usual some5 Nautilus April 1894 p. 142. what more so in the young than in the adult external sculpture of small somewhat irregular rounded riblets with equal or wider interspaces each third fourth fifth or sixth riblet being somewhat larger and more elevated than the others and often duplex of these larger ribs there are twenty or less on each side all the ribs are normally rounded and except where obviously broken by accidents due to exigencies of growth do not appear scaly or nodulous though sometimes more or less keeled  basal outline apart from sculptural crenulations approximately oval the anterior always narrower than the posterior end.
Lon.
of shell 135 Lat.
112 Alt.
33 mm.
The distance from the apex to the anterior margin horizontally 63 mm.
Some specimens are over six inches in length and proportionately solid.
The species seems to be one of the largest limpets known.
Although the nearest land is New Zealand the shell has none of the aspect so characteristic of the limpets of that region but recalls rather those of East Africa and the China seas.
Patella patriarcha Pilsbry has much the same general aspect though the sculpture is wholly different.
Putelln harbara L. has the discrepancy between the primary and secondary radii much greater and the margin consequently stellate.
The sinus near the anterior left hand margin is not confined to this species but may be found in many Patellidie still few species have it so strongly emphasized as in P. kermadecensis.
Its origin is doubtful and can be cleared up best by a study of the living animal.
The larger specimens are usually badly eroded only the younger ones show the surface well and the islands we understand from Mr. Fulton from whom the specimens were received are visited but once a year.
These circumstances may account for the overlooking of so large a shell by untrained collectors.
Explanation of Plates.
Plate VII.
Illustrating Dr. W. H. Dall's description of examples in National Museum Collection.
Fig.
1.
P. kentiadeceiisis dorsal aspect.
Fig.
2.
P. kermadeceims ventral aspect.
Plate VIII.
Dorsal and lateral views of type specimen of .
kmiKidecemis nearlv natural size.
