A PROPOSED CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSORIAL HYMENOPTERA OF NORTH AMERICA.
BY ^VILLIAM J.
FOX.
The arrangement of our Fossores contained in the following pages, I trust will be of some service to students of these insects.
It has been evident for some time that the existing arrangement, that contained in Cresson's Synopsis,^ is of little value, as it is too superficial.
Entirely too many families, without characters to substantiate them, were recognized : the Sphegidie, for instance, which were divided into no less than nine families.
Accepting these nine families would, it seems to me, necessitate tlie erection of families for such genera as Neolarra, BotJujnostdltus, Trypoxylon and others, which stand more or less isolated and yet possess characters which connect them in one wa}'^ or another with the formerly existing families and would form more distinct families, were they so recognized, than, say, the Mellinidas Ampulicid:e, Nyssonid;e or Bembicidie.
How these nine supposed families have been disposed of, the following pages will show.
Saussure's recent classification'is not satisfactory, inasmuch as it is incomplete, and, moreover, his conclusions, particularly regarding the Pompilidte, are not well founded.
He makes two tribes of this family, the Pompiliens and Pepsiens, separating them on a very trivial character — the position of insertion of the first recurrent nervure in the second submarginal cell, a character which, in my experience, has always proved variable.
Under the first mentioned tribe he includes Cerojiales, which he seems to consider as not worthy of more than generic rank, while he forms a tribe for the reception of Pepsis, which should be placed with the Pompiliens, if anywhere.
The Mutillidre and Sapygidoc are considered as subfamilies of the Scoliidse; these are ranked as families in this paper.
The old families Pemphredonida and Crabronidtc and Oxijhelus, he considers as tribes of equal value to the Nyssonidse, Bembicidie and Larridte, 1 Mr. Cresson states that this was simply compiled from the works of other authors.
^ Grandidier's Hist.
Madagascar, XX.
all of which are ranked as tribes of the Sphegidae.
The two families mentioned and Oxijbelus are treated as subfamilies in this paper as they are more distinct than are the numerous tribes of the Bembicime and Sphegiuiie.
It is hoped that the paper may at least call forth improvements on the classification suo-gested.
5i5^ MUTILLID^.
I regard this as a well-defined famil}^ disagreeing with some authors who place it as a subfamily of the Scoliidte.
The wingless females are, in my ojnnion, sufficient to separate these insects from the Scoliidiv.
In the latter family the intermediate cox?e are widely separated, while in the Mutillidaj they are not separated by a distance equalling their width.
In the generic table below, Plwtopsis Elake is considered as synonymous with Sphairophtlialma Blake, as a comparison of the two genera fails to show any differential characters.
The family can be separated into two tribes as follows: — Females (as far as known) .without ocelli; marginal cell of ( J ) wings more or less short, not reaching by any means the apex of Aving ; some of the nervures generally obsolete, particularly those forming the third discoidal cell MUTILLINI.
Females with ocelli; marginal cell of (<?)
wings long and pointed, reaching almost the apex of wings; all the nervures distinct, never obsolete MYllMOSINl.
Tribe I.— MUTILLIXI.
.
Contains the genera Psammotherma,^ Mat'dla, Spliaerophthahna ( = Photopsls m i^t.
), Brachycidis and Chyphotes, and is defined as above.
The genera may be tabulated as follows: — 1 — Antennae simple in both sexes 2 Antennae of male flabellate Psammotherma Latr.
2 — 'Eyes ovate, emarginate w'ithin the ^ , entire in 9 ; thorax of 9 generally oblong in shape, truncate behind.
Muiilla Linn6.
Ej-es round, entire; thorax generally ovate, rounded posteriorly 3 3 — Intermediate tibite w ith two apical spurs 4 Intermediate tibisy with but one apical spur; w ing stigma very large; body smooth, glabrous; marginal cell usually shorter than stigma; autennfu longer than head and thorax Brachycistis Fox.
^ Probably does not occur in America, the species described being very likely erroneously reported from Florida.
4 — Abdomen at most subpetiolate; thorax of 9 divided into more than two parts (bodj^ at least the thorax, coarsely seulptnred).
2 Sl'T13:K01MI'rHALMA* Bl.
Abdomen connected by a long, slender petiole; thorax (9) divided into two distinct parts only; ^ unknown.
4.
('IIVI'IIOTES BI.
Tril)e II.— MYRMOSINI.
Proposed for the genera Mijrutom and Mefliocn, and is characterized chiefly by the females jiossessing distinct ocelli.
Ihit few species have been described from America.
Apex of abdo7Ben (J^ "I, unarmed: wings with three snbmargiual cells; '' cubital nervure of hind w iiigs received by the submedian cell at apex; thorax (J) coin posed apparently of two parts; body rugose ( 9 ) Myrmosa Latr.
A])ex of abdomen ( <? )
armed with a curved spine; two submarginal cells; cubital nervure of hind wings received considerably before the apex of submedian cell; thorax (9) divided into three parts; body smooth, shining and very ant-like.
^rKTiiocA Ijatr.
If the genus Thyiuius occurs in America as reported by Patton (Ent.
News, III, 104) another tril)e will have to be added to this family.
I doul)t, liowever, the existence of American representatives.
SCOLIIDJE.
This family is sufficiently characterized by both sexes being winged to separate it from the iMutillida?.
The North American representatives comprise three tribes," as follows: — Ej^es emargjnate; spur of fore tiliijc large, strongly curved, dilated, and truncate at end; intermediate tibiie w ith one spur; abdomen of ^ armed with three spines at apex SCOLIINI.
Eyes entire ; spur of fore tarsi not much curved or dilated, either pointed or bifurcate at end ; intenuediate tibijc witli one or two spurs; abdomen of $ with but one spine at apex.
Sexes similar in form ; marginal cell broadened toward the base (in our genera, the 9 '« have tlie marginal cell open at apex) ; antenme short in both sexes TYPHllNl.
■* This may ultimately prove but a division or sul)yenus of Jlfn/i7Ia.
^ There are really four snbuiarj^inals, as the cubital ncr\ ure extends out to the apex of wing.
8 After Saussure.
8exes dissimilar in form ; 9 robust, <J loug aud slender ; marginal cell ( 9 ) narrowed toward base (in our genera the marginal cell is always closed); antennaj in 9 s^bort, in $ long and slender, as long or longer than head and thorax MYZI^INr (/Yesu7es Sauss.)
Tribe T.— t^COLIINI.
Two genera occur in our fauna, as follows: — Anterior wings with only one recurrent nervure .... Scolia Fabr.
Anterior wings with two recurrent nervures Elis Fabr.
Each of these genera may be divided into subgenera by the number of submarginal cells.
In the subgenus Triscolia there are three cells, while in D!--<coUii there are two.
In Trielis three, in Dielis two.
Tribe II.— TIPHIINI.
The lirst and second submarginal cells merged into one through the disappearance of the first transverso-cubital nervure ; base of tirst aljdominal segment produced angularly or dentate on each side; intermediate tibite with one spur Tiphia Fabr.
Three submarginal cells, the first transverso-cubital nervure present, but abbreviated, not reaching the cubital nervure; base of first abdominal segment not produced or dentate at base ; intermediate tibife with two spurs EPOMIDIOPTERONSichel (= Pr/ /•«!'//>///«).
Tri))e III.— MYZININI.
This tril)e is identical with Saussure's "Section des Plesiites. "
Plesta seems to be synonymous with Mijzlne Latr.
The latter has priority, being described two years in advance of Plesia.
But one genus, Mi/zine, is found in America, which may be distinguished by the tribal characters given above.
SAPYGID^.
Intermediate coxi3e contiguous ; legs, except tibial spurs, unarmed ; no pygidiul area ; apex of ( <? )
abdomen without spines.
These characters seem sufficient to keep these insects distinct from the preceding family, to which they have been assigned by some authors, and, moreover, the first and second ventral segments are contiguous, while in the Scoliidie they are widely separated.
Sapijya, our only genus, has the eyes emarginate within, the intermediate tibiie with two spurs.
For several species having the vertex tuberculate, the name Eusapyga has been proposed bj Cresson, but these form only a subgenus at the most.
POMPILIDJE.
This is a distinct family characterized by the very long posterior legs, long antenujB, and by the first and second ventral segments being not widely separated.
The species possess no pygidium.
I would separate the fiimily into three tribes, placing the Ceropalini first, as I consider the genus Ceropales as being closest to the Sapygidas.
Sting sheath of 9 projecting, prominent ; eyes slightly emarginate within, near the top; labrum large, projecting ; autennpe never curled after death, situated well above the clypeus '.
CEROPALINI.
Sting sheath of 9 not projecting ; eyes entire.
First discoidal cell not longer than first submarginal ; submedian cell of anterior wings longer than the median on the externomedian nervure ; second discoidal cell not half the size of the third; labrum exserted, longer than the clypeus; abdomen compressed apically NOTOCYPHlNI.
First discoidal cell longer than lirst submarginal ; labrum not exserted ; length of inedian cell of anterior wings variable; second discoidal cell at least half the size of the third; abdomen rarely compressed POMPILINI.
Tribe I.— CEROPALINI.
This tribe contains but a single genus, Ceropales, having the characters given above.
The species are always more or less ornamented with yellow^, some being extremely handsome.
Tribe II.— NOTOCYPHlNI.
The genus NotQcyphus constitutes this tribe, which differs chiefly from the Ceropalini by the non-exserted sting sheath.
Tribe III.— POMPILINI.
The Pompilini contains the tj^pical forms of the family and is, by far, the largest tribe.
Pepsis, which Saussure considers as a tribe, should, in my opinion, be placed in the tribe Pompilini, as its characters will not warrant a tribal distinction.
Parapompllus Cress, (non Sm.
), Planiceps Latr., and Ajyorus Spin., seem to be merely groups of the genus Pompilus, as has been pointed out by Kohl.''
Epipom^ Verb, zool.-bot.
Gesell., Wien, XXXIV, pp.
33-58.
]3ilus Kohl is scarcely worthy of generic distinction, and should be treated as of equal value as Parapompilus Cress.
1 — Anterior wings with three subiuarginal cells 2 Anterior wings with two submarginal cells 9 2 — Third** ventral segment with a transverse furrow (indistinct in the $ of some species) 3 Third ventral segment without a transverse furrow 6 3 — First recurrent uervure received by the second submarginal cell in or about the middle.
Hind tarsi (^) not flattened .... 4 First recurrent nervure received by the second submarginal cell not far from its base, and considerably before its middle.
Hind tarsi ( $ ) flattened.
Fifth, or fifth and sixth ventral segments ( S) nearly always with long, stiff hair, often forming two tufts.
ISIetathorax with a more or less developed tubercle before each stigma Pepsis Fabr.
4 — Hind tibiie not spinose, or scarcely so; submedian cell of fore wings generally but slightly longer than the median on the externomedial uervure 6 Hind tibice more or less spinose, generally serrato spinose, most strongly* so in the 9 5 o — Submedian cell of fore wings longer than the median on the externo-medial nervure.
.
.
.
Salius Fabr.
(^ PrioGnerais Sch.).
Submedian cell of fore wings of the same length as the median on the externo-medial nervure (eyes converging somewhat towards the vertex) Calicurgus Lep.
'-* 6 — MaxilltB of 9 with a bunch of long hair at the base • Agenia'" Schiodte Maxillse of 9 naked Pseudagenia"' Kohl.
7 — Prothorax shorter than the metathorax 8 Prothorax longer than the metathorax; head very flat and transverse, the clypeus planate .
PARAPOMPiLrs Cress, (non Smith).
8 — Legs strongly spinose ; prothorax on the sides not strongly depressed; fore femora not swollen Pompilus Fabr.
Legs, except tibial spurs, not spinose; prothorax strongly depres.sed on the sides; fore femora somewhat swollen , .
.
.
.
Epipompiei'S Kohl.
* Second ventral of some authors.
9 I have not seen this genus. "'
I can find no characters to separate the $'s oi Agenia and Pseudagenia, as the characters given by Kohl are not constant.
The size of the second and third submarginal cells varies, and while some species of ylgenia have the wings banded, in others they are clear.
Of our species of Agenia Cress., cjipidus, congruits, and accepius are Pseudagenia.
A new genus may have to be erected for A. Belfragei Cress."
Cameron is mistaken in referring A. nubifer, viexicanus, chloris, floridiis, auripilis, and subvirescens to Pseudagenia, as they all have the bunch of hair at base of maxillse.
9— iletathorax posteriorly not eniargiiiute, not produced; anterior femora swollen, their tarsi also rather thick ; abdomen subcompressed ri.AXiCEPS Latr.
^letathorax i)osteriorly strongly emarginate, produced on each side into a strong tooth; fore femora and tarsi not thickened; alidomen not at all compressed Aponrs Spin.
SPHEGID^.
I would divide tliis vast family into five subfamilies as follows: Spheginte, PemphredoniuiTe, Bembicinte, Oxybelime, and Crabroniuic.
I have thought it best to unite under one head the Larridte, Bembicidse, Nysonida\ Mellinida^ and Philanthidte, as it is impossible to find characters by which these families (so-called) can be limited, even as subfamilies.
The reader is referred to Handlirsch's paper on Nysson and Bemhex.^^ It may seem out of place to put the FemphredonintTS close to the Sphegina?
; yet I feel justified in doing so on account of tlie abdominal petiole which is peculiar to both subfamilies.
Abdomen connected \\ ith the thorax l»y a slender pedicel of variable length, and never sessile with the following segment.
Intermediate tibite with two apical spurs; claws nearly always more or less dentate within SPHEGIN/I^].
Intermediate tihiic with but one apical spur; claws never dentate within PEMPHREDONIN.E.
Abdomen never connected w ith the thorax by a slender pedicel, at the most subpetiolate as in Me/li/u(s. ;More than one submarginal cell, if not, then the eyes are emarginate within; neuration of posterior wings complete.
BEMBICIN.E.
Onlj-oue submarginal and two discoidal cells (e^'es entire).
Metathorax with a long projection'-' at base; postscutellum with a squama on each side; submarginal cell confluent with tirst tfiscoidal cell; eyes elongate-ovate, fully three times longer than they are broad medially and converging towards the vertex . "
OXYP.ELIN.E.
Metathorax and postscutellum without spines or squamte ; submarginal cell not confluent with the first discoidal cell; eyes very broad, not more than twice as long as the width of their broadest jiart and strongly diverging towards the vertex.
CRABRONIN.E. ''
Sitzuugsb.
K. K. Akud.
der Wisseii., Wien, XCY, Abtli.
1.
12 This is variously shaped, being sometimes bifurcate and agaiu spinose.
1894.]
XATr'HAL SCIENt'ES OF PIIILADKI.PHTA.
299 Subfamily SPIIEGIN^.
Represented liy two tribes as follows : — Metatliorax uiiarnied, never dentate yi*HE(iINI.
Metathorax armed with two strong teeth .
.
.
.
AMIM'IjICINI.
Tribe T.— SPHEGINI.
Three genera belong to this tribe.
They have numerous subgenera or groups of species which at one time were regarded as genera.
Kohl's admirable paper, Die Hymenopterengruppe der Spheciden, '•' will be of much value to the student of this group.
Our genera may be r^eparated in the following manner; — Second submarginal cell receiving but one recurrent uervure; 9 with or w ithout tarsal comb Sfhex Linnf'.
Second Bubmarginal cell receiving both nervures.
o without tarsal coml) Sceliphkon King.
O with tarsal comb Ammophila King.
As Kohl's work is probably inaccessible to most workers, I give here a table of groups of the three genera : — Genus SPHEX Linne'.
Second submargiual cell small, much higher than liroad.
Claws with a single tooth in middle of inner margin; species more or less metallic Gi-.
Chlokion.
Claws with li-o teeth on inner margin; species not metallic.
Last ventral plate ( 9 ) compressed, almost keeled medially; claws bidentate; clj'peus produced medially, with a deep sinus on each side Gr.
Paemode;.s.
Last ventral plate { 9 ) convex, not comiiressed; claws 2-5 dentate; clypeus entire or emarginate medially .
.
.
Gr.
Harpactopps.
Seccmd submarginal cell as broad as high, rhomboidal, or rectangular.
Metathorax without stigma!
furrow; tarsal comb ( 9 ) wanting; petiole long and generally bowed Gr, Isodontia.
Metathorax, with exception of aS'.
Lucce, with a stigmal furrow; tarsal comb (9) present, petiole straight Gr.
Spiiex.
Genus SCELIPHRON Klug.
Prothorax longer than the dorsulum.
Head from above not triangular, not much produced behind the eyes (the prothorax is but little longer than the dorsulum).
Gr.
Podium.
1' Annaleu d. K. K. Xaturliistor.
Hofinuseum, Wien, V, 2^o.
2, 3.
Head from above triangular, greatly produced behind the eyes (the prothorax is longer than the dorsukuu, soutellum and postscutelluni combined) (j)r. Thigonopsis.
Prothorax not as long, at any rate not longer than the dorsuluni, ' Gr.
ScEEiPHRON {=Pelopocus).
Genus AMMOPHILA Kirby.
Wings with two submarginal cells Gr.
(,'oloptera.
Wings with three submarginal cells.
Second al)dominal segment elongate, forming with the first segment a long petiole Gr.
Ammophii.a.
Second abdominal segment more or less campanulate, the petiole composed of but one joint (Jr. Psammophila.
Tribe II.— AMPULICINI.
The genus Ampulex is represented in North America by the subgenus Rhinopsls Westw..
It is distinguished by the rostrate clypeus and by having two submarginal cells.
The prothorax is long as in Trigonopsis; the metathorax is many ridged and has very strong transverse strife above and possesses two strong teeth.
The first submarginal cell is twice the length of the second.
Marginal cell with an appendiculation at apex.
Subfamily PEMPHREDONIIsT^.
The MimesidiB are here considered as representing a tribe of this subfamily, and Miinesa Shuck, as a synonym of Pseu Latr.
It is impossible to separate these two genera as their characters vary, particularly the neuration.
It is true that the inner spur of hind tibicC of Mimesa is peculiarly shaped, but this development will be found in Psen, although in a lesser degree.
Anterior wings \\ith three submarginal cells; antennte situated far above the clypeus PSENINI.
Anterior wings with two submarginal cells ; antenn;e close to base of clypeus PEMPHIIEUONINI.
Tribe I.— PSENINI.
Psen (= Miinesa), the only genus of this tribe, is easily distinguished by the characters given in the above table.
The Psenini further differ from the Pemphredonini bj' the peculiar inner spur of hind tibiie.
Tribe II.— PEMPHREDONINI.
The tribe Pemphredonini comprises the greater number of the genera of this subfamil}'.
The following table is baf^ed chiefly on that in Cre^^son's " Synopsis" : — Anterior wings witli ttiree discoidal cells, therefore with two recurrent nervures.
, Abdomen with a tolerably long petiole .
.
.
Pemphredon Latr.
Abdomen with the petiole not longer than the hind coxae.
Posterior tibiae spinose or subserrate ; labium emarginate at tip.
'* DiouoNTUs Curt.
Posterior tibiae (excepting the calearia) unarmed ; labrura pointed at tip Passalcecus Shuck.
Anterior w ings \\ith two discoidal cells, therefore only one recurrent nervure Anterior wings with one subniarginal cell .
A^imoplanus Giraud.
Anterior wings with two submarginal cells.
Petiole short; recurrent nervure joining the first transversocubital nervure Spilomena Shuck.
Petiole long; recurrent nervure received in the middle of the llrst submarginal cell Stigmus Jur.
Subfamily BEMBICIJMJE.
Under this head I unite the Larrida?, Bembicidte, Nyssonid^e, Philanthidie, and ^Nlellinidte.
The characters of these supposed families are not sufficient or constant enough to sustain them in such a rank, and are valueless in some cases, even as characters of minor importance.
As in the case of the Bembicidte, it is easy to take such types as Bembex, Monedula, forms with rostrate clypeus, and separate them into a family, apparently distinct from the Nyssonidie and Larrida;, if these genera are compared, say, with Larra and Ni/sso^i; but certain genera will be encountered, Xeolavra and Buthynostethus for instance, whose proper position will remain undetermined.
Neolarra combines both Larrid, Bembicid and Nyssonid characters, yet it will fit in neither of the families defined.
Bothijnostethus inclines to both the Larridie and Nyssonid?e, and seems to be a connecting link between them.
Sflzus and Sphecui.<, although placed in the Bembicidie, possesses the neuration and non-rostrate labrum, characters which bind them to the Nyssonidie.
It must not be forgotten that the labrum of the Nyssonidre is prominent, indeed in Gonjtcs very prominent.
Thirteen tribes of this subfamily seem to be indictated, which number will undoubtedly have to be reduced in the future.
^* I have not seen Poleinistus Sauss., described as occurring in Madagascar and Mexico.
It is related to Passahxcus and Diodoiitiis.
302 pr()cep:dings of the academy of [1894.
1 — Labruin projecting in such a manner aw to cover the mandibles when closed, wx:)melinies rostriform 4 Labriim projecting more or less,'-' but not covering the mandibles, never rostriform ; antennje situated close to or not far fiom base f)f clypeus ; if the latter is divided into three lobes the middle lobe is not greatly enlarged 2 Labrum not at all projecting, hidden from view by mandibles ; antenuse situated far above the clypeus ; middle lobe of latter greatly enlarged PHILANTHINI.
2 — Mandibles emarginate on outer nuirgiu (except iu Trypoxylon) .
o Mandibles not emarginate o 3— Three submarginal cells; intermediate tibiie with two spurs.
Second submarginal cell not petiolate; ai)ical joint of antennae {$) normal MELLININI.
Second submarginal cell petiolate ; apical joint of antenuje ( $ ) peculiarly shaped NYSSONINI.
Two submarginal cells ; intermediate tibi;e with one spur.
NEOLAKRINI.
4 — Intermediate tibia» armed with two si»urs at apex; submedian cell of posterior wings extending far beyond the median on the externo-medial nervure; labrum shorter than the clypeus, generally rounded anteriorly; ocelli distinct STIZINI.
Intermediate tibi;e with but one spur at apex; submedian cell of posterior wings not extending beyond the median on the externo-medial nervure; labrum longer than the clypeus, rostriform ; ocelli more or less imperfect EEMBICINI.
5 — Hind ocelH normal 6 Hind ocelli more or less distorted LARRINI.
6 — Eyes entire 7 Eyes emarginate within TRYPOXYLONINI.
7 — Second submarginal cell not petiolate 8 Second submarginal cell i)etiolate 10 8 — Middle tibiae armed with two spurs at apex 9 Middle tibite with one spur at apex LYRODINI.
iJ--Eyes {$) touching above; second submarginal cell receiving both recurrent uervures AST ATI XI.
Eyes {$) not touching on the vertex, widely separated; first and second submarginal cells each receiving a recurrent nervure .
.
DIPLOPLECTRIXI.
10 — No pygidial area (two submarginal cells) .... MISCOPHINI.
A pygidial area (three submarginal cells) .
BOTHYXOSTETHIX^I.
Tribe I.— PHILAXTHINI.
Hind femora more or less thickened at apex, truncate, and produced beneath Cerceris Latr.
(=-£7i(cercem Cr.).
^'^ Astatiiii and Uioploploctriui seem to be cxeeptions to this (lefiiiitii)n, or else the hil)nim projeels so little a.s to he iiuliseernihle.
Hind femora more or less narrowed at apex, not truncate, and not produced beueath.
Abdomen with first segment nol at all petiolate.
Eyes entire within; submedian cell of posterior wings much shorter than the median on the externo-medial nervure; J with a distinct pygidial area Aphilantjioi'S Patt.
Eyes more or less emarginate within; submedian cell of posterior wings as long or slightly longer than the median on the externo-medial nervure; 9 without a pygidial area.
• PiiiLAXTHUS Fabr.
Abdomen with hist segment subpetiolate, as in MelUnus.
Th ACHY PUS Kl.
Tril)e II.— MELLIXIXJ.
In this tribe I include MelUnus and Gori/fes, separating them from the Xyssonini chiefly because the apical joint of the i antennrc is normal and is not crescent or otherwise shaped as in the Nyssonini; also because the second subniargiual cell is not petiolate as in that tribe.
Antenme well separated, situated close to base of clypeus, anterior margin of clypeus denticulate; a recurrent nervure received by the third submarginal cell; abdomen always with first segment always petioliform ^NIkllinus Fabr.
Antcnnic approximate, generally w ell separated from base of clypeus; anterior margin of clj-peus rarely or never dentate; third submarginal cell never receiving a recurrent nervure, abdomen rarely with the hist segment itetioliform .
.
.
Gokytks Latr.
The genera Hoplist(-% Dienoplux and Euspougns are identical with Gorytea Tribe III.— NYSSONINI.
Prothorax above subtjuadrate, longer than dorsulum; metathorax not strongly spiuose; (posterior femora beneath at apex, produced into a stout tooth), form slender.
Submedian cell of anterior \\ ings much longer than the median on the externo-medial nervure; abdomen without a pale spot on each side of the second dorsal segment .
.
.
Didineis Wesm.
Submedian cell of anterior wings a little shorter than the median on the externo-medial nervure; abdomen with a pale spot on each side of second dorsal segment Alyson Jur.
Prothorax abo\e very narrowly transverse; metathorax \\ith two long sjiines (tooth of posterior femora not so strong as in the ju-eceding two genera); form robust NvssoN Latr.
In the foregoing table Paranysson and Hypom/sson are considered synonymous with Nyssou.
The lack of the thii-d submargiual cell in N. {Ilyponysson) hicolor is simply an anomaly.^'' I have recently received another anomalous species (which is new) from New Mexico, which lacks the second (petiolated) submarginal cell.
Tribe IV.— STIZINI.
Marginal cell about t\A ice as long as the first submargiual; spurs of hind tibiie enlarged in the 9 , and the pygidium well developed; abdomen ( $ ) with a single spine at apex .
.
.
Sphecius Dhlb.
Marginal cell much shorter than the first submarginal; spurs of hind tibipe short in both sexes, not enlarged; no pygidium, at the most with two short ridges on each side of apical portion of last dorsal abdominal segment; abdomen {$) with three spines at apex Stizus Latr.
Bembecinus and Mecjastizus are considered synonymous with Stizus in the foregoing table."
Tribe V.— BEMBICINI.
Anterior ocellus linear, transversely arcuate.
Maxillary palpi six-jointed, labial palpi four-jointed.
Metathorax excavated posteriorly, compressed laterally; last ventral segment ( $ ) with three spines Bembidula Burm.
Maxillary palpi four-jointed, labial palpi two-jointed; metathorax flat or convex behind, not compressed laterally; last ventral segment ( $ ) with a single spine Bembex Fabr.
{=3ficrobembex Patt.).
Anterior ocellus elliptic, roimd or reuiform.
Maxillary palpi three-jointed, labial palpi one-jointed; anterior ocellus longitudinally elliptic; maxillae very long, reaching the hind coxje Steniolta Say.
Maxillary palpi six-jointed, labial palpi four-jointed; anterior ocellus round or reniform; ma?cillse short .
.
Monedula Lair.
Tribe VI.— NEOLARRINI.
This tribe is based on a single genus Neolarra Ashm.
which may be distinguished by its tribal characters.
I have not examined this genus during the preparation of this classification, but if my memory serves me right it should be placed here, between the Bcmhicinl and Both)iostethhii.
16 See Handlirsch.
«i*'i.. K. Ak-xl.
"Wissensch., Wien.
Math.-natnrw.
Classe, XCV, Abth.
1, p. 293.
1^ See Handlirscli, 1. u.-Cl, p. :iti-:it.
Tribe VII.— BOTHYNOSTETHINI.
Marginal cell truncate, with an appendiculation; eyes converging towards vertex; hind femora not thickened at apex PLENOCULLiS Fox.
Marginal cell pointed at tip, without appendiculation; eyes diverging towards vertex : hind femora, especially in 9 , thickened at apex BOTHYNOSTETHI'S Kohl.
Tribe VIII.— ASTATINI.
This tribe is formed of the genus Astatnx, and is based chiefly on the strantre disposition of the eyes of the male sex ; they meet on the vertex, a characteristic not found in any other genus of the fossorial Hymenoptera, and not, as far as I know, in any genus of tlie Order.
Tribe IX.— DIPLOPLECTRINI.
The genus Diploplectron forms this tribe.
The chief characters are that both sexes have the middle tibiio two spurred, the veiy short subniarginal cell and the prominent and very long prothorax.
It is evidently allied to the European genus Dinetus, which probably belongs to this tribe.
As the latter is the older genus, the name proposed for this tribe will have to give way to Dinetini, but as Dinetus does not occur in North America, and as this is simply a classification of the forms inhabiting that region, I prefer to use the name proposed above.
Tribe X.— MI8COPHINI.
Wings with two subinarginal cells, the first receiving a recurrent nervure; marginal cell acuminate, not appendiculate; eyes converging but little or not at all towards vertex .
.
.
Miscofhts Jur.
Wings with three subniarginal cells, both recurrent nervures being received by the second subniarginal cell; marginal cell elongate, truncate at apex and appendiculate; eyes strongly converging towards vertex Niteliopsis tSaund.
Tribe XI.— LYRODIXl.
Lyrodn, upon which this tribe is based, might be placed in the Larrini, were it not for the regularly formed and distinct ocelli.
The only other character worth mentioning in which it differs from the following tribe, is the peculiar shape of the prothorax above, which is lieiag apparently twice emarginate, with the intervening space strongly developed.
21 Tribe XII.— LARRINI.
Under this head are placed all those genera of the old family Larrida3, which have the hind ocelli distorted and more or less obsolete.
Just within the inner eye margins there is a more or less developed longitudinal fold or swelling.
Mundiljles not dentate within; outer side of anterior tibia?
armed with strong spines; pygidium ( 9 ) not pubescent .
.
.IjAkra Fabr.
Mandibles armed with one or two teeth within.
Pronotum drawn under the dorsulum, especially at the sides ; metanotum longer than the dorsulum; anterior femora (i) not emarginate near the base; pygidiai area covered with a hoarfrost-like pile NoTOGONiA Costa.
Pronotum not drawn under the dorsulum ; metanotum shorter than the dorsulum; anterior femora ($) enuirginate near the base as in Tuchyspliex and some species of Tdchi/tes ,pygidiai area on apical portion with short, stiff hairs.
Ancistnomma Fox.
Within the inner eye nuirgins there are no signs of a swelling or fold.
Coml) on anterior tarsi (9) composed of stifl", tolerably short thorns; pygidiai area entirely covered with pubescence; hind ocelli linear, hooked ar upper end; fore femora of $ either emarginate or not e)narginate near the base beneath .
Tachytes Pz.
Comb on anterior tarsi ( 9 ) composed of very long flexible spines or bristles; pygidiai area naked; hind ocelli oval; fore femora ( $ ) always emarginate near the base beneath .
Tac'HY.shhp:a' Kohl.
Trii)e XIII.— TRYPOXYLONINT.
Anterior wings witli three submarginal cells; abdomen short, sessile.
Female with a well-developed pygidium; nuu-ginal cell shorter than the first submarginal; antenna' of i more or less dentate PiSONOPSIS Fox.
Female without a pygidium; marginal cell nearly as long as the three submarginal cells united; antennpe of $ not dentate.
.
.
PisoN >Spin.
Anterior wings with two submarginal cells; abdomen long, clavate Trypoxyi.on Latr.
Subfamily OXYBELINiE.
In my opinion the peculiar armature of the metathorax and postscutellum, toji^ether with the form of the eyes and neiiration, justifies the retention of the genus 0.ri/hcli(s in a subfamily.
Saussure forms a trilie of it.
1894.]
NATUKAT, SSCIENCES OF PHILADEIjPHIA.
307 Subfamily CRABRONIlSr^.
Eyes hairy: niaudibles eniargiuate exteriorly.
Entomogxathus Dhlh.
Eyes not hairy: mandible not emarginate externally.
Second discoidal cell long, narrow, obtusely pointed at apex, longer than the first discoidal cell: form short, robust: abdomen beneath tiat, or suLx'oncave ANAcVtABKt) Pack.
Second disi-oidal cell broadest at a})ex, shorter than the iirst discoidal; form elongate; abdomen convex beneath.
Ckabko Fiihr.
( = Bhopn/ Km).
RECENT MOUND EXPLORATION IN OHIO.
BY GERARD FOWKE AND \V.
K. MOOREHEAD.
During the psmt summer (1894) a number of mounds have been explored in Ohio in l)ehalf of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
The reports of Mi-.
Gerard Fowlce relating to the Van Meter mound and of Mr. Warren K. ISIoorehead as to the Metzger mound are appended.
Clarence B. Moore.
"Mounds in Pike County, Ohio.
— Three miles south of Piketon, half a mile from the point where Beaver Creek discharges into the Scioto river, on the farm of J. M. Van Meter,' is a^ 'double mound ' on the highest terrace.
The larger part, measuring, after being plowed over for a number of years, 75 feet in diameter and 10 feet high, has its west base just at the brink of the terrace at a point where the bluff is 50 feet high, quite steep, with the creek at its foot.
The smaller, south of east from the first, is six and one-half feet above the surrounding level and 56 feet in diameter.
At the junction of the two, the top is three and one-half feet above the general level.
"A trench 10 feet wide was started in the east sid§ of the smaller mound, gradually widening until it was 25 feet at the center, and then drawing in until it was 20 feet Avide at 15 feet west of the center.
Beneath the middle part was a core 20 feet across and 8 feet high of soil placed and packed, or much tramped, while wet; it was somewhat darker than the loam composing the remainder of the mound, quite hard, and broke off in clods.
"On the original surface of the ground, beginning about five feet east of the center, was a burned place a little over 20 feet across at the widest part, and reaching 20 feet west of the center, or nearly to the lowest point between the mounds.
A fire had been burned over this area for a short time only and with a small amount of wood, as the burned earth was nowhere more than an inch thick, most of it much less, while the charcoal and ashes varied from a mere streak ^ See Catalogue of Prehistoric Works East of the Rocky Mountains, byCyrus Themas, page 182.
C. B. M.
1894.]
:i09 to a little more than an inch except in one place where a short log six inches in diameter was converted into charcoal.
"Except an arrow and a spear, found loose in the dirt, there was not a relic of any description, nor the smallest fragment of a human bone.
A few pieces of much burned bones of small animals or large birds were in the charcoal at the center, and many small pieces of burned stone were scattered all through the mound.
The eastern Section of deep grave, 20 feet south from center of larger mound on Van Meter farm.
1.
Body of mound, 6 feet.
2.
Soil, 1 foot.
3.
Subsoil, 3 feet.
4.
Gravel, (to bed of river).
4a.
Gravel thrown from excavation.
XXXXX.
Position of human bones.
Scale.
.18 of au inch equals 1 foot.
half contained a large amount of ashes and much eliarcoal, thrown in with the dirt to help fill up.
"In the larger mound a circle forty feet in diameter was laid oft with the apex as the center.
This brought the circumference about four feet below the top.
"In the cap, 12 feet east of center were decayed human bones with a few rough beads and fragments of pottery; at the same distance southwest of center were others with a spear or knife by one femur aud a flint chisel, polished at the sharp end, near the skull.
None of the bones were entire, and being so close to the surface were as soft as ashes.
Six feet southeast of center a fiint knife lay near fragments of a skull; and at the place where the chest bones would have been were fragments of a pot that seemed to have been etitiie when deposited.
Less than a foot from the apex were fragmentary human bones.
"A knife and a l)oat-shaped slate ornament with a crease around the middle were loose in the dirt.
Nothing further was found in the upper i)ortiou.
A well wrought flint spear, 8i inches long, and a hematite hemisphere were found on the top of this mound some years ago — perhaps plowed out.
All the loose earth, was now scraped away and concentric circles, five feet apart, laid off on the level surface of the top.
In the outer ring, on the northern and western sides, within a foot or less of the top were traces of six skeletons, intrusive burials ; nothing was found with any of them.
"A little west of south from center, with its inner nuirgin 17 feet from that point, was an elliptical grave, dug before the mound was begun.
It measured a little more than nine feet long anil a little more than five feet wide, with the longer axis very nearly east and west.
At about 18 inches below the original surface, along the center line of the grave, a body had been placed.
Only fragments of the teeth and skull remained, except that a few small pieces of the pelvis and finger bones were preserved by the action of five small rectangular coppeiplatesthat had evidently been fastened around the wrist.
These plates were in a little mass of very loose, dark earth, probably remains of some sort of fur or fabric, stained in a few places with red ochre.
Nothing else was found in the grave until at the bottom, more than a foot below the upper level of the gray sand, which here lies fouifeet under the proper surface.
At this level lay a few decayed pieces of bones of a medium sized person extended on the back, head east, exactly under the upper skeleton.
The body had been covered with baik or wood which extended to the margin of the grave on every side and gave a reddishbrown tinge to the lower two inches of filledin earth.
This earth was from a swamp or low bottom, being black and sticky and evidently packed in wet, causing the entire de(;ay of the skeleton which would otherwise have been well preserved l)y the dry sand in which it lay.
The grave wall was cut down straight for See note.
('.
B. M. two feet; below this the ends drew in somewhat, while the sides were slij^htly overhanging, pvoliahl\^ from caving in <^»f the gravel while it was being dug.
The work was done from the south side, as most of the earth was thrown to that side, the remainder being })iled at the two ends.
"At 15 feet north of the center began a streak of burned earth, charcoal, and ashes, which gradually thickened toward the center.
It proved to be nearly circular in outline and 20 feet across.
For three or four feet around the margin the ashes seem to have been swept toward the center, as the natural earth of the mound had been deposited directly on that burned, without any ashes or charcoal intervening.
At eight feet north of center the mass thickened to a foot and held this thickness for six feet farther, and for nearly eight feet east and west.
The material forming the charcoal varied from sedge grass to small trees, the largest piece being a pine log a foot in diameter and six feet long.
The inner portion of this was in its natural t-ondition, the charred outside having preserved the i)art to which the tire had not reached.
Much of the charcoal was fr(jm wood burned while green and was bright as polished metal where it had been kept tolerably dry.
There were a few fragments of animal bone here and there, and enough small pieces of human bone to show that a body or skeleton had been ci-emated, some of them being like cinder, others scarcely charred.
The thinness of the ashes and the amount of the charcoal showed that the fire had been smothered while much of the fuel remained on it.
I-^ying on the to]) of the charcoal where it was thickest was a considerable quantity of charred cloth, showing at least four distinct methods of weaving ; there was also much of what seemed tb be fur or some such material ; the latter was soft as soot, while some of the cloth was fairly well preserved, a very little of it showing scarcely any mark of burning.
"Except as noted above, no relics of any description were found anywhere in the lower part of the mound.
Gerard Fowkk."
The five rectangular sheets of copper found with human remains by Mr. Gerard Fowke, beneath the base of the larger Van Meter mound, near Piketon, Pike Co., Ohio, consisted of sheet copper oxidized and carbonated to a certain extent, though a large percentage of metal was uuati'ected.
These sheets, though not exactly similar as to 312 PROOEEDTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894.
Yegeta})le fabric, with sections.
Larger Van Meter .Mound.
cDcuilile size.)
length and breadth, do not vary materially, so that the measurement of one, namely 2-5 inches by 3"2 inches, may be considered to apply approximately to all.
That they had been portions of a sheet or sheets of larger size was evidenced by at least one closely ground edge on each specimen, contrasting markedly with the rough line of separation of the other margins.
No ornamentation like the beaded margin and the repousse work of Florida and Tennessee was apparent, though the marks of numerous blows from a convex blunt cuttingedge were visible on all the specimens.
Exfoliation was noticeable near the edges.
The sheets were of irregular thickness averaging about 1 mm.
Notwithstanding these indices of aboriginal origin, so solid was the appearance of the copper that, though no believer in a postColumbian origin for mounds as a rule, I admit having experienced a feeling of doubt as to the origin of this copper, a doubt which a thorough and careful analysis, made by Ledoux and Company, of New York, speedily dispelled.
The result is given in detail: — "Copper 99-9130 Silver 0-0198 Arsenic 0-0026 Antimony Trace Iron .
."
0-0233 Nickel and cobalt .... 0-0080 "Note: — The above analy.sis was made after removing the superimposed film of oxides and carbonate from the sample.
Special examination fur lead, bismuth, and zinc shows that none of these is present. '
' It is quite evident that here we have to do with native copiper of a purity greater than is ordinarily produced at the present time by any smelting process^ and consequently of a still higher degree of purity than would be the product of early processes of smelting the arsenical sulphide ores of Europe*.
^.loreover, the introduction of lead in refining, though not an invariable custom, was extensively practised iu Europe, especially in copper intended for sheet or wire, and its ^ All smelted copper contains from three to ten lunulredths of one per cent, of combined oxygen.
• * For full details as to aboriginal copper the reader is referred to "Certain Sand Mounds of the St. John's Eiver, Florida, Part II," Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci .
Vol.
X.
314 PROC'KEDJNGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1894. absence, in connection with freedom from consideral)le quantities of arsenic, or antimony, or botli, may always he rejL^^anied as a'ood es'ideace against an early European origin.
Clakkxck Ji.
^looKE.
"Thic MjcrzGER ]V[ouKD.
— This structure, the property of Mr. (Jliarles Metzger, is located on Deer Creek, about two miles from Yellow Bud (southwest).
Situated upon a hill one hundred and fifty or one hundred and sixty feet in altitude, the mound commands a fine view of the surrounding country.
The plains stretch away towai'ds the Scioto three miles distant and continue two miles east of the river, where they terminate in high hills.
The mound is very nearly round, and is thirty-four feet in height by two hundred feet in diameter at the base.
Alongside of it is a horse-shoe or crescentshaped embankment and two small mounds.
"On August 20, 1894, work was begun upon the structure.
The mound had been originally opened by some farmers.
When they began work the structure stood forty feet in height.
They sank a circular shaft eight feet in diameter from the apex downwards.
"Our men first reduced the height of the mound about ten feet.
This gave a platfoi-m fifty feet in diameter and twenty-four feet above the surroiuiding surface.
The ground in the center of the structui'e (where the previous excavation had been sunk), we found to be very damp and heavy, and as we proceeded downward, we became convinced that the log pen found by the original excavators in the center of the structure would be in a bad condition, and that we must depend on other pens were we to take out any logs entire.
"The structure was composed of ordinary hill clay.
At the top it was not stratified, and as it varied but slightly in color, it was extremely diflficult to distinguish any of the ' dumps.'
' On August 22nd a very fragmentary skeleton was found about twelve feet below the top and four feet southwest of the central excavation.
The body had been originally buried in bark which percolation of water from above had utterly decomposed.
With the bones was a spool-shaped button of copper, about an inch in diameter, heavily coated with copper oxide.
"The 25th two teams were put upon the mound, and they, together with the shovels, reduced it rapidly.
When within four feet of the ^ A " dump " represents the load deposited by one man.
— C. B. M.
1894.]
NATU1{A[> SCIKNCIOS OF PHI r-ADKLPHIA.
315 top of the log pens we (li?ipens'<Ml with the teams and used the shovellers tor the ivmainder of the work.
One or two arrow-heads svere found (liirin<r the course of the excavations. "
At eighteen feet from the to{) and eight feet north of the center was a fairly well preserved skeleton surrounded by pieces of saplings and logs, two to four feet in length.
These were originally laid, one altove the other, to the height of about a foot.
These logs, being of small size, when decayed, had broken beneath the weight of earth.
The bones of the skeleton were unusually yellow.
No relics were found with the remains.
We saved some samples of the wood, which experienced timber men pronounced oak and walnut.
''On the 27th and 2Sth numerous bunches of fine roots and undergiound moss were encountered.
Samples of the moss were preserve<l.
There were also several deposits of boulders, made without appai-ent reason.
The mound, at this point ( twentythree feet from the top, nine feet from the bottom), appeared to be stratified, and the eartli was veiy soft in places.
"The log pen in the center of the mound, and the one northwest of it, remained for manv vears before thev caved in.
That is.
the t Metzger Mound, diagram showing banded structure of portion of east wall of trench when partially excavated.
Wood did not decay for a long period of time.
In the case of the first or largest pen (central one) the earth was kept out of a space 12 X 15x4 feet.
The second pen occupied a space about <SxlO and about 6 feet high, and was constructed differently from the fii'st, being very small at the top.
These pens existed long enough for the eartli above them to be packed into large clods, which did not fall into the cavity when the wood decayed but gradually settled, forming an arch.
The second arch was about 8 feet in diameter at the bottom and 7 feet high.
The cavity was filled with underground moss.
There was no evidence that moisture had ever entered the 116 [1894.
\]]im -S^e^Vvenson.
/J.
Meizycr .MdUiid.
— |)i;i<;rain ni' horizontal section showing size ami sliape of basket dumps.
Si/e of section 3x6 feet.
Colors of the earth found within limits of this diagram were black, light and dark brown, yellow and bluish gray.
little cave.
It was perfectly dry with fine dust in the bottom.
The moss would blaze when touched with a match.
In the central pen the conditions were entirely different.
The excavation sunk by the farmers permitted water to penetrate entirely over 15x20 feet of the base of the mound. "
As the main trench was continued we noticed several small ash pits and patches of dark and also burnt earth.
In these were ashes, pottery fragments, animal bones, mussel shells and flint chips.
This village site refuse was not considerable. "
Below the upper portion different colors in the mound showed plainly the 'dumps' which contained from a peck to a third of a bushel each.
They clearly showed the mound to have been constructed entirely by manual labor, and that about as much earth as could be conveniently carried by one person w-as deposited in each load.
The drawing B shows the section, three by six feet, which has been carefully ' scalped' and smoothed to bring out the shades. "
The trench at this point was about forty-five or fifty feet in width and was level throughout.
The last three or four feet taken out by the teams were removed from the center, and when the shovellers began, the trench dipped from either end to the center.
In working to the original base line a large bed of ashes was uncovered.
The log pen itself extended 12 feet east and w-est to 15 feet north and south.
The statement of the original excavators we can hardly verify.
It appears that the pen was composed of smaller logs than they state.
Two large logs have left a broad, thick strip of decayed wood on the narrowest side of the pen.
One corner of the pen ran over into the ash pit.
The logs at the southeast corner seem to have been somewhat larger than the others, and were badly decayed, but we managed to dig around them and bring them into relief Drawing C shows the pen as far as we w ere able to trace it.
"There were here and there fragments of I'ed pottery.
About one foot below the remains of the logs were original yellow clay and shale clay the natural hill soil.
The decayed logs and the reddish earth resulting from their decay would fill four or five barrels.
This will give an idea of the bulk which they originally represented.
It was our opinion from the excavation that most of the logs were saplings, and that the pen was not as large as claimed by the original explorers.
While as large north and east it certainly was not more than four feet high.
318 [1894.
"The side?
of the trench were miderminedas much as was consistent with safet)'.
It was found that there was nothing in the first \ S««yl»«iiwt C. Metzger .Mound.— I)ia;,'raiii of surface of cxcavaliou sliowiuj; jini two feet above base of mound.
or main trench save the pen described, the refuse, tlie two fragmentary skeletons, the c()pj)er ear l)Uttoii and a few arrow-heads.
1894.]
NATUKAf; SCIKNCKS OV Pini-ADRI.l'III A.
310 The trench was cleaned to the oritriiial surface an-l cxperiniental holes were sunk even to the shale.
There were no l)urials l)eU)w the original surface.
"The ground had been levelled and burnt, thus giving (he mound an even floor or base.
In nearly all mounds of the lower Scioto this peculiarity of construction is observeil.
It is, therefore, very easy to keep upon the base line.
"A bed of ashes was discovered about four feet from the l)ottom on the northwest side of the trench.
In it were bits of charcoal of exceedingly bright lustre and as hard as bituminous coal.
The asii bed was everywhere covered with a thin layer of reddish bark.
It was impossible to preserve the bark in sections larger than two l)y three inches.
The earth below the ashes was burnt a bright brick red.
The ashes varied from three inches in thickness to a feather edge, but a quarter of an inch thick.
The earth covered by them extended over ten by six feet. "
It was near the northwestern edge of the asli bed that we found the end of a large log.
Numerous small logs were found above and around this large one, but it did not appear that they were laid with any regularity.
They did not seem to be as large as those reported by the men who dug the first hole in the mound.
3Iost of them were six or eight inches in diameter, and six feet in length.
They were badly rotted and only a few fragments were saved.
Possibly by the use of plaster of Paris sections might have been secured several feet in length, but the ends were so decayed that they would not have shown whether or not they wei'e cut by stone axes.
As soon as tlie end of the log was uncovered the men were set to work upon the ash bed with hand trowels, and they dug over the ground very carefully for more than a day but found nothing of importance.
The ashes were very white, and resulted from the burning of large quantities of wood. "
When the end of the log was uncovered it appeared to be fifteen or sixteen inches in diameter, and being accidentally struck by a pick, we were rejoiced to hear it ring as though of sound fresh wood.
Wo were compelled to spend three days more and to cut down the bank between the log and the edge of the mound outside so that the teams could pass in and out.
By these two excavations (both were widened) we moved two-thirds of the earth in the mound.
Near the log the earth on all sides was very loose, and in the f>)rni of clods and large ctiunks rather than fine soil.
It appeared that a circle of saplings had been placed about the log. "
The log must have been cut at a distance and carried to the mound.
There is no cedar within ten miles of the structure at the present day, and none was seen by the early settlers.
However, it may be that cedar grew upon this hill in pre-Columbian times.
Tlie trench extending to the northwest and uncovering the log was 35 feet in width and somethina: over 100 feet in lens^th.
"On Tuesday, September 4th, the excavation reached the bottom of the log, and measurements gave its length as 18'5 feet with a circumference of 5*4 feet.
Immediately below the log was a skeleton.
The saplings or small logs constructing the pen had been planted in the earth around this skeleton, somewhat after the form of a tepee.
The skeleton itself lay upon the original shale in an excavation two feet below the surface of the ground.
It was 20 feet from the slope of the mound directly above or 36 feet below the level of the summit.
The skeleton lay with head to the north, arms at the sides, and legs extended.
Around each wrist were two copper bracelets.
At the neck and upon the chest were several hundred shell beads.
There were also the tusks of some large animal.
The dry ashes with which the remains were covered, and the great depth from the surface aided in the presei'vatiou of such substances as usually decay.
Traces of hair were aljout the skull, the brain,*' dried and shrivelled, was found within it, and cloth, buckskin and rude matting and bark covered the remains.
All of these were carefully removed and boxed. "
A rough count made on the spot gave the number of beads as 480.
"After removing the skeleton the log was sawed into two sections and carried out and shipped.
The outline of the pen was photographed and drawn, and the whole base of the trench down to the original shale carefully dug over.
The loose and partly arched earth on either side of the trench was carefully taken out.
The possible presence of other pens in the mound was settled in the negative.
The sides were undermined at considerable risk and the walls were allowed to fall.
Another inspection showed the absence of other burials in the structure.
^ This remarkable preservation of the brain is as yet unexplained, though a number of authorities have been consulted.
A paper will be devoted to it.
— C. B. M. " Subsequently work of filling up began, and when completed the mound stood about 15 feet in height, flat on top and about 250 feet base. "
The crescent and the small mounds near it were carefully opened but nothing of importance was discovered.
Three holes were dug in the crescent, one at each end and one in the center.
The crescent averaged three feet in height, was 118 feet across from end to end, 10 feet in width and 250 feet around.
There is no evidence of a considerable village site near either of the mounds or the crescent.
Warren K.
Moorehead."
22 NEW SPECIES OF FUNGI FEOM VARIOUS LOCALITIES.
BY J.
B. ELLIS AND B. M. EVERHART.
* HYMENOMYCETES.
Crepidotus albidus E. & E. On bark of {Tiliay.
Ann Arbor, Mich., May, 1894 (A. J. Pieters).
Pileus resupinate-sessile, nearly white, glabrous, i-l cm.
across, margin incurved when dry.
Lamelke not crowded, thin, broad for the size of the plant, pallid, becoming yellowish-brown, radiating from a lateral point, spores yellowish-brown, subinequilaterally elliptical, about 5 x 3i'^.
Polyporus pachycheiles E. & E. On the side of a rotten maple {Acer rubrum) stump, Newfield, N. J., Nov. 1893.
Imbricated, small, lj-2 cm.
wide, 1 cm.
long, milk-white at first, margin soon turning yellow, mostly narrowed behind, the pilei connected by a resupinate layer, surface apparently velutiuous but not tomentose, hardly depressed behind.
Pores minute, 2-3 mm.
long, 120-150//.
wide, round or by the splitting of the walls, here and there subsinuate, margins even, not lacerate-toothed.
Flesh of pileus thin, not over 1 mm.
thick and like the pores and the whole plant tough-cartilaginous.
Surface of pileus faintly zonate toward the margin, more distinctly so in drying.
The pores are nearly as long in front as behind, thus thickening the margin of the pileus, hence the specific name.
Poria inermis E. & E. ^ On dead shrubs and limbs of various deciduous trees, Newfield, N. J.
Received also from Michigan, Canada, Nebraska and Louisiana.
Issued in N. A. F., No.
313, as Polyporus obliqmis, from which it is quite distinct.
Resupinate, adnate, seriate, extending along the limb for six inches or more and about one inch wide, yellowishbrown, 2-4 ram.
thick in the middle, margin thin, narrow, light-yellow (when fresh) and closely adnate.
Pores small, round, extending down to the underlying wood.
Spores ferruginous, sub-globose, 4-5/'.
diara.
1894.]
NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEJ.PHIA.
323 Mucronoporus fulvidus E. & E. Ou dead limbs of Alnus, Berkeley, Gala., Jan., 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No.
181).
Resupinate, adnate, tawny-yellow, extending along the limb for 6-8 or more centimeters and 3-4 cm, wide, margin velvety tomentose, narrow, sterile, adnate.
Pores short (1 mm.
or less), round, extending down to the matrix without any distinct subiculum.
Spores hyaline, sub-globose, about 2// diam.
Spines tolerably abundant, 25-35 x 3-4//, rather pale.
Has the aspect of Poria inermis E. & E., but surface of pores more uneven, and spiny within.
Hydnum Washingtonianuin E. & E. On the ground in deep coniferous woods, Tracyton, Kitsap Co., Wash., Dec, 1893 (Adella M. Parker, No.
214).
About 4 cm.
high, pale orange, carnose, subviscose.
Stipe central, 3 mm.
thick, subatteuuated below.
Pileus about 4 cm.
across, slightly depressed in the center, thin, glabrous, wrinkled when dry.
Aculei subulate, cylindrical, 3-5 mm.
long, pale yellow, nearly white when fresh, decurrent half way down the stem.
Spores angularglobose, (white)?, 6-7,a diam., borne on clavate-cylindrical basidia 20-22 X 6;/, with 4 erect, slender sporophores about 6;/ long.
From H. repandum, to which it is closely allied, it differs in its decurrent aculei and tougher substance.
Tremellodon piisillum E. & E. On rotten wood, among coniferous trees, Tracyton, Wash., Dec, 1893 (Adella M. Parker, No.
212).
Small, stipitate, gelatinous, white and nearly transparent.
Pileus subreniform, membranaceous, 1-1 2 cm.
across, smoky-brown above and sparingly clothed with weak, pale hairs.
Teeth not crowded, white, subcompressed, about 2 mm.
long, narrowed gradually from the base, with a few obtuse, short, lateral, tuberculiform branches or processes.
Spores ovate-globose, 5-6 x 35-4//, consisting of a thin, transparent sack containing a single, large globose nucleus.
Stipe lateral, cylindrical, slender, equal, hirto-pubescent, 1 cm.
long, 2 mm.
thick, smoky-brown.
T. hirneoloides B.
& C. is a much coarser, stouter plant, with stipe 18 mm.
long, 8 mm.
thick at the base.
Coniophora capnoides E. & E. On bark of dead maple, London, Canada, Sept., 1892 (Dearness, No.
2,004).
Very thin, purplish, margin of the same color, much resembling outwardly, Corticium fumigatum, Thuni., only not at all cracked and of a darker color.
Spores brownish, smooth, globose, 3-3i'>.
diam., or short elliptical, 32-5 x 3-3 j//, borne singly on the apices of short, brown basidia or rather emitted successively from these basidia, in which several spores already formed may be distinctly seen.
The subhymenial hyphie are very scanty, and the bark has the appearance of having been for some time exposed to smoke.
Peniopliora Atkinson!
E. & E. On bark of some deciduous tree, Syracuse, N. Y.
(Prof Geo.
F. Atkinson).
Closely adnate, thin, smoky-lilac, or smokydrab color, surface uneven, 1-3 cm.
across.
Cystidia subulate-cylindrical, slightly roughened above, 30-40 x 5-7//, projecting above the hyraenium 12-20//.
Spores hyaline, compressed, elliptical when viewed in front, 4-5x2-3//, suballantoid when seen edgewise, 4-5xli-li'/.
Corticium alboflavescens E. & E. On dead, standing trunk of Kalmia latifolia, Nuttallburg, W. Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
365).
At first orbicular, subpezizoid, 1-2 mm.
diam., becoming more irregular in shape and 1 cm.
or more diam., lower stratum milkwhite, consisting of loosely interwoven, branching threads, and extending out beyond the pale-olivaceous or yellowish, membranaceous hymenium so as to form a thin subfimbriate, white margin.
Spores abundant, globose, with a single large nucleus, 4-6//.
diam., slightly colored.
The hymenium has only a slight tinge of olive and is perhaps better described as lightdrab color.
Dacryomyces flabella E. & E. On a decaying stump, Mercer Island, near Seattle, Wash., Nov., 1893 (Adella M. Parker).
Fan-shaped, deep orange color, gelatinous, l2-2 cm.
broad and high, with a short, lateral stipe, suberect with the opposite margins incurved so as to bear some resemblance to Peziza onotica Pers., subtuberculiform, or otherwise irregular in shape when young.
Spores oblong-cylindrical, with an oblique apiculus below, obtuse and rounded above, yellowish, about 7-septate, 15-18 x Qp., about the same as in D. stillatus, from which its fan-shaped form and lateral stipe will readily distinguish it.
* * PYRENOMYCETES.
Capnodium caespitosum E. & E. On living leaves of PJiotinia Japonica, Pasadena, Cala., July, 1894 (Prof A. J. McClatchie, No.
748).
Perithecia subulate-cylindrical, simple or branched, 300-400 x 60-70//., collected into compact, convex-hemispherical clusters 1-3 mm.
diam., scattered over the upper surface of the leaf and bristling with the projecting points of the perithecia.
There is no mycelium spreading over the surface of the leaf, only a few erect, moniliform threads mingled with the perithecia.
Sporidia (sporules)?
ovate, 3-septate and subhyaline at first, finally submuriform and darkbrown, 12-20 X 7-10//.. We have not been able to make out the asci with any certainty.
Nectria pallida E. & E. On dead bark of Carya alba, Missouri, Oct., 1891 (C. H. Demetrio, No.
276 partly).
Stroma mucedinous, white, forming small (j-l mm.)
white tufts, or subeffused.
Perithecia 6-20 on a stroma, globose or slightly ovate-globose, minutely pulverulent, about 150//.
diam., paleyellow, with the ostiolum obscure.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, sub-sessile, 40 X 6-7//., paraphysate?.
Sporidia biseriate or obliquely#uniseriate, oblongfusoid, 3-4-nucleate, hyaline, apparently becoming uniseptate but not constricted, 6-8 x 2-2?//.
Sometimes the perithecia stand singly or 2-3 together on scattered shreds of the white, mucedinous stroma.
Venturia vaccinii E. & E. On dead leaves of Vaccinium ovatum, Seattle, Wash., Dec, 1893 (C. V. Piper, No.
225).
Perithecia hypophyllous, scattered, astomous, globose, 80-100/ji diam.
, rather sparingly clothed with stout, straight, black spines 3060//.
long.
Asci lanceolate, 25-35 x 6-7//, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, hyaline, subinequilateral, faintly uniseptate, 10-12 X 2-24//.
Chaetomium pallidum E. & E. On au old yeast-culture, made on a piece of carrot, Loudou, Cauada, March, 1893 (J. Dearness, No.
2,245).
Perithecia superficial, thin membranaceous, pale, ovate, 150-200// diam., with a conicpapilliform ostiolum.
Asci not distinctly made out, but judging from the arrangement of the sporadia, obloug-clavate 30-35 x 10-12//.
Sporidia biconical, brown, becoming nearly opake, 14-18x10-12//, narrowed and obtusely apiculate at the ends.
Differs from the usual type of Chaetomium in its pallid perithecia sparingly clothed with spreading white hairs, but by exposure and age the color of the perithecia becomes darker.
Lasiosphaeria hystrix E. & E. On decaying limb of Sallx, Ohio (Morgan, No.
1,021).
Perithecia gregarious, depressedhemispherical, *-•> mm.
diam., clothed all over except the broad, tuberculopapilliform ostiolum, with straight, spreading, stout, snuff-brown hairs 100-250/jt long and 6— T/J!
thick at the base.
The matrix is also overrun with a subiculum of finer, interwoven, branching hairs.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, 120-160 x 20/-.
Sporidia lying parallel in the asci, fusoid-cylindrical, hyaline, multinucleate, becoming 7-15-septate, nearly straight, ends obtuse, 45-65 x 8-1 0/y Comes nearest L. caesariata C. & P., but that is black and shining and beset with 'scattered, black hairs; it also has smaller 5-7 -septate sporidia.
Rosellinia limoniispora E. & E. On dead leaves of Fraxinus, Rockport, Kansas, Aug., 1894 (E. Bartholomew, No.
1,545).
Perithecia gregarious, superficial, ovate, about I mm.
diam., often flattened or depressed above, clothed except the black, mammiform ostiolum, with a thin, pruinose-tomentose coat which soon disappears, leaving the surface minutely granular-roughened.
Asci (p.
sp.)
70-75 X 9/'., with a short stipe, 8-spored, paraphysate.
Sporidia obliquely uniseriate, limoniform, (i.e., acutely elliptical), the ends submucronate, 12-15x7—8//, dark-brown.
The absence of any subiculum, and the smaller differently shaped sporidia separate this from B. medullaris and R. mastoidea.
Boseliinia caespitosa E. & E. Ou (lead limbs of Celtis occldentalk, Rockport, Ks., Nov., 1893 (Bartholomew, No.
1,252).
Perithecia densely gregarious or cespitose, minute (175-200/x diara.)
ovate-globose, rough, with conical or couic-papilliform ostioluiu.
Asci cylindrical, 60-79 x 8// when the sporidia lie obliquely,.
75-90,".
long when they lie end to end, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia uuiseriate, rather acutely elliptical, brown, continuous, 913x6-7//.
Distinguished by its small, rough, clustered perithecia.
Rosellinia bicolor E. & E. Ou rotten wood, Louisiana (Langlois).
Perithecia gregarious, hemispherical, black-brown, 2 mm.
diam.
, thin and fragile, seated on a white subiculum of interwoven, branching hyphae.
Asci cylindrical, 125-140 x 8//, 8-spored, paraphysate.
Sporidia uuiseriate, broadfusoid, subinequilaterai, 3-4 nucleate, hyaline becoming brown, 20-23 x 6-7//.
Perithecia only about half as large as in R. morthien Fckl.
, and not flattened at the apex.
Ostiolum minute, papilliform.
Eosellinia ostiolata E. & E. * On bark of Ulmus Americana, Rockport, Kansas, Apr.. 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,429).
Perithecia scattered or subgregarious, superficial, ovateglobose, 4 mm.
diam., black, minutely granular-roughened, slightly narrowed at the base, with a stout, obtuse, shortcylindrical, or conic-cylindrical ostiolum.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, 150x25//, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia rhomboidelliptical, longitudinally rugose, brown, continuous, 25-38x20-22//.
Some of them smaller and suliglobose, but this may be a deformity.
Rosellinia pinicola E. & E. On a weather-beaten pine board, Rockport, Ks.
, Feb., 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,379).
Perithecia loosely gregarious, erumpent-superficial, ovate-globose, grayishblack, ] mm.
diam.
Ostiolum minute, papilliform, sometimes slightly compressed.
Asci cylindrical, 60-65x45//, p. sp.
40-45//.
long, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia uuiseriate, elliptical, 5-8 X 3-4//, the shorter ones sub-globose, brown, 2-3-nucleate.
Differs from R. ovalis, Ell.
in its smaller perithecia and sporidia.
Melanomma asterostomum E. & E. On bark of beech roots, Grauton, Ontario, Canada, Jan., 1894 (J. Dearness, No.
2,238).
Perithecia gregarious, ovate-conical, rough, black, 4-3 mm.
diam., with a conic-papilliform, often distinctly radiatesulcata 4-5 cleft ostiolum.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, 8-spored, paraphysate, p, sp.
4550 X 8-10//.
Sporidia crowded-biseriate, oblong-fusoid, 3-septate, often constricted at the septa and one of the inner cells smaller, pale olivaceous-brown (nearly hyaline at first), 12-15 x 3-4//.
Differs from M. fuscidulum Sacc.
, in the shape of the perithecia and very different ostiolum.
Melanomma moricolum E. & E. Perithecia gregarious, scattered, semi-erumpent, sub-globose, 1 mm.
diam., with a minute papilliform ostiolum.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, short stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, p. sp.
40-45 x 7//.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong-fusoid, slightly curved, sub-obtuse, yellowishbrown, 12-15 X 3-4//, mostly not constricted, but when mature, some of them distinctly so.
Differs from M. Mori H. Fabre, in its much shorter asci and rather smaller biseriate sporidia.
On dead small limbs of Morns, Rockport, Kansas (Bartholomew, No.
1,447 partly).
Melanomma alpestre E. & E. On dead twigs of Ardostaphylos Nevadensis, Mt.
Paddo, Wash., July, 1886, Alt.
6,000-7,000 ft. (W. N. Suksdorf, No.
268).
Perithecia scattered, hemispherical, 1-11 mm.
diam., carbonaceous, black, glabrous, superficial, flattened, with a minute papilliform ostiolum.
Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 110-150 x 10-12//.
Sporidia overlapping-uniseriate, or (in the longer asci) lying end to end, oblong-cylindrical, obtuse, slightly curved, 3-septate, brown, 18-22x5-6//.. One perithecium contained two distinct ascigerous nuclei, seeming to indicate that the outer, black shell described above as a perithecium, is in reality a stroma, but the material was too scanty to enable us to settle this point definitely and we havQ, therefore, referred the specc.
to Melanomma.
Melanomma dealbatum E. & E. On old decorticated, bleached and weather-beaten cottonwood logs, Rockport, Kansas, Feb., 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,369).
Perithecia scattered, erumpeut-superficial, black, glabrous, ovateglobose, 200-225,".
diam., at length more or less collapsing above.
Ostiolura papilliforni, minute.
Asci oblong-cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 75-110x10-12;/.
Sporidia overlapping uniseriate, or more or less perfectly biseriate, obovate, hyaline, becoming palebrown, 3septate, 12-15x6-7//.
Some of the perithecia are sub-elliptical.
Differs from M. obliterans B.
& Br.
in its habitat (on wood of deciduous tree), and its constricted sporidia; from 31.
CaUllus Sacc.
in the character of the sporidia and smaller perithecia, nor does it seem referable to any other species with 3-septate sporidia.
Trematosphseria vitigena E. & E. On old, decaying wood of Vitis rupestris, Nuttallburg, West Va,, Apr., 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
454).
Perithecia gregarious, sunk in the wood all except the obtuse, convex apex, 5--I mm.
diam., depressedglobose, the buried part rather thinwalled, the erumpent, convex apex thick, solid, like the stromatic shield of Clypeosphcer'vj.
Ostiolum papilliforni, soon perforated.
Asci clavate-cyliudrical, paraphysate, 8-spored, 86-100 x 10-12//.
Sporidia sub-biseriate, fusoidoblong, 3-septate, and constricted, subacute, palebrown, 20-25x6-7//.
Trematosphssria Fraxini E. & E. On dead limbs of Fraxinus viridis that had lain for some time in water, Rockport, Kansas, Feb., 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,373), Perithecia scattered, semi-erumpent, small, elliptical (on a horizontal section), 300-500 x 250-300//, the base sunk nearly to the wood, the erumpent apex closely embraced by the epidermis.
Ostiolum papilliforra, soon deciduous and then, perithecium perforated.
Asci clavate, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 70-80x12-15//, 8-spored.
Sporidia overlapping below, biseriate above, fusoid-oblong, brown, 3-septate and constricted at all the septa, often with one cell swollen, slightly curved, 20-27 x 6-8//.
The specc.
of Sphceria vielina B.
& Br.
in Rab.
F. E. , 1835, have perithecia ovate-conical, h—\ mm.
diam.
and sporidia uniseriate, 4-6-nucleate, not constricted, straight, 22-30x12-15// and are certainly different from this.
Teichospora (Teichosporella) Ohiensis E. &E. On hard wood, Ohio (Morgan, No.
1,012), 330 I'KOCKEDINGS OF THE ACADPJMY OF [1894.
Pei'ithecia densely gregarioas, superficial, grayish-black, rough, ovate-globose, 300-400;/.
diani, with a broad papilliform, soon perforated ostiolum.
Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, 55-62 x 7-8//., 8-spored (paraphysate)?
Sporidia uniseriate, short-elliptical, yellowish-hyaline, obscurely 1— 3-septate and uiuriform, 10-12 x 6-8//.
Has the general aspect of Roselliiiia pulveraeea (Ehr.
).
Teichospora tuberculata E. & E. On vvoud of LIriodendron, Ohio (Morgan, No.
1,004).
Perithecia gregarious, superficial, minute, about 300//.
high and 200/'.
broad, ovate-conical, sessile on the flattened base, coarsely tubercular-roughened, black.
Ostiohun obtuse, perforated and often 4-sulcate-cleffc.
Asci ciavate-cylindrical, short-stipitate, 110 x 20//, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia irregidarly biseriate, oblong-elliptical, multiseptate and muriforni, hyaline at first, tardily becoming brown, slightly constricted in the middle, 19-22 x 11-13//., ends obtuse.
Distinguished from the other species by the ovate-conical, tubercularroughened perithecia.
Teichospora araygdaloides E. & E. On bark of Salix amygdaloldes, Rockport, Ks.
, July, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,507> Perithecia scattered or sub-gregarious, erumpent-superficial, subglobose, 250-350/' diam.
, soon flattened above and at length more or less collapsed.
Ostiolum papilliform.
Asci subventricose, subsessile, paraphysate, 8-spored, 75-85 x 18-21//.
Sporidia mostly crowdedbiseriate, obovate, about 5septate and constricted in the middle, with a longitudinal septum running through 2 or more cells, hyaline and uniseptate at first, finally yellow-brown, 20-22x10— 13//..
Differs from T. obdueen.^ (Pers. )
in its scattered gi'owth, sub-collapsing and mostly rather smaller perithecia, and shorter asci with crowded sporidia.
Teichospora clavispora E. & E. On bark of Ner/ioido aceroides, Rockport, Kansas, July, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,509).
Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, ovate-globose, rough, 250-300// diam., with a pa[)illiform ostiolum.
Asci ciavate-cylindrical, 100-120 X 14-15/', paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia obliquely uniseriate, clavate or narrow obovate, 8-10-septate and muriform, brown, 30-35 x 10-12//,, narrowed almost to a point below.
Teichospora rliypodes E. & E On decorticated Bhus, Ann Arbor, Mich., Apr., 1893 (L. N. Johnson, No.
1,545).
Perithecia gregarious, enimpeut-superficial, conichemispheiical, ^ mm.
diatn., with a papilliform or conic-papilliform ostiolum.
Asci cylindrical, 100-110x12//, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia uniseriate, obloug-elliptical, yellowbrown, 6-7-septate, with a more or less perfect longitudinal septum running through several of the cells, 15-18 X 7-8//-, slightly constricted in the middle, ends obtusely pointed.
Accompanied by pycnidial perithecia {Macrophovia rhoina E, & E.), smaller and depressed, with fusoid-oblong, hyaline sporules 18-22x6-7//.
The ascigerous perithecia are more or less covered below with the remains of the decomposing fibers of the wood and have a dirty look.
Teichospora crossota E. & E. On the weathered inner surface of elm bark, Rockport, Kansas, Apr., 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,437).
Perithecia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, ovate-globose, rough, black, 150-200//, diam., fringed around the base with short, creeping, brown hyphse, not collapsing.
Ostiolum papilliform.
Asci cylindrical or clavate-cylindrical, about 75 x 10-12//, abruptly contracted below into a short, crooked stipe, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia sub-biseriate, obovate-elliptical, yellow-brown, 3-septate and more or less constricted in the middle, 12-15 x 8-9//, ends obtuse.
Allied to T. pygmcea E. & E., but perithecia gregarious and fringed, and sporidia longer and acute below.
Teichospora piriospora E. & E. On outer bark of living Fraxinus viridis, Rockport, Ks.
, March, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,233).
Perithecia erumpent-superficial, subglobose, I mm.
diam., with a papilliform ostiolum.
Asci cylindrical, 100-110 x 15-18//, sub-sessile, paraphysate, 8-spore4.
Sporidia overlappinguniseriate, piriform, 6-11-septate and muriform, yellow'-brown, 35-45 x 12-15//, the terminal cells a little paler.
Teichospora nubilosa E. & E. ^ On outer bark of Celtis occidentalis, Rockport, Kansas, Nov. 1898 (E. Bartholomew, No.
1,249).
Perithecia scattered, superficial, ovate, minute, 250x220,", rough, black, with a papilliform ostioluni, at length collapsing above.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, 70-75x10-12'/., 8-spored, with filiform paraphyses.
Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical or ovate, 3-septate and submuriform, constricted at the middle septum, hyaline at first, but soon becoming brown.
The perithecia are mostly seated on a thin, black crust which overspreads the surface of the bark, giving it a clouded appearance.
Pleosphaeria cortioola E. & E. On outer bark of Pinus rigida, Nuttallburg, West Va. , June, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall).
Perithecia scattered, superficial, ovate, 300-400//.
diam.
, carbonaceo-membranaceous, pilose-strigose, hairs 100-200 x 5-6;/, soon opake, very faintly and sparingly septate, here and there collected into closely compacted fascicles resembling stout bristles.
Ostiolum papilliform, obtuse.
Asci oblong-cylindrical, abruptly short-stipitate, 80-100 x 20-25,".
Paraphysate?
Sporidia crowded, acutely elliptical, nearly hyaline at first, becoming olive-brown and 5-7-septate and muriform, but not constricted.
Comes near P. strlgosa Sacc, but perithecia rather smaller, not depressed, and hairs fasciculate.
Lophiostoma (Lophiosphsera)?
asperum E. & E. On outer bark of Ulmus Ainericana, Rockport, Kansas, June, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,487).
Perithecia scattered, superficial, ovate, tubercular-roughened, except around the prominent, narrow, compressed ostiolum, 400-450// high, 300-350," broad, slightly narrowed around the base.
Asci clavate-cyhndrical, short-stipitate, 90-100 x 12,"., paraphysate, 8spored.
Sporidia uniseriate, mostly overlapping or oblique, yellowish-hyaline, uuiseptate and constricted, 18-21 x 7-8,", ends subacute, or when free obuse and rounded.
Lophiostoma speciosum E. & E. On bark of Fraxiiuis viridis, Rockport, Kansas, March, 1894 (Bartholomew, 1,406).
Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, globose, grayishblack, i ram.
diam., with a narrow, compressed, deciduous ostiolum.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, 150-200 x 22-25/., p. sp.
112-130;/ long, jniraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong-elliptical, with the ends subacute, olive-brown, 10-11-septate.
not constricted, 40-55 x 1316,a.
Lophidium pachystomum E. & E. On outer bark of Popalus monilifera, Kansas (Bartholomew).
Perithecia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, depressed-globose, 4^-1 mm.
diam., base slightly sunk in the bark, rounded above at first and without any visible ostiolum, but finally with a stout, shortcylindrical, obtuse, scarcelv compressed ostiolum \-h mm.
Ion?.
Sometimes two or three perithecia are confluent.
Asci clavatecylindrical, 110-120x18-22// (p. sp.
100-110//.
), paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, clavate-oblong or obovate-clavate, 2750x12-15//, 6-12-septate and muriform, becoming darkbrown, sometimes shriveled and deformed.
Distinguished by its turret-like ostiolum.
Lophidium nitidum E. & E. On dead shoots of cultivated grapevines, Nuttallburg, West Va. , Jan. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
295).
Perithecia scattered, semierumpent, small (200-250//.
diam.
), black and shining, subhemispherical, the flattened base immersed in the bark.
Ostiolum compressed, thin, narrow, sometimes obsolete.
Asci cylindrical, short(8-10//) stipitate, about 100x10-12//, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, yellowbrown, 5-7-septate with a longitudinal septum running through two or more cells, 19-22 x 8-10//, ends mostly rounded and obtuse, not at all or only slightly constricted in the middle.
Lophidium purpurascens E. & E. On old paper lying by the roadside, Ann Arbor, Mich., March, 1894 (L. N. Johnson, No.
1,564, partly).
Perithecia gregarious, on purplish spots, ovate, 400-450// diam., the apex emergent and crowned with the obtuse, compressed ostiolum.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, 100-150x15-20//., p. sp.
80-100/i long, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate above, oblong or fusoid-oblong, attenuated towards each end, 7-10-septate, slightly curved, not at all or only slightly constricted, 2 or more of the cells divided by a longitudinal septum, olive-brown, 22-25 x8-10//.
Often in >some of the asci the sporidia appear shriveled and are nearly opake.
Lophidium confertum E. & E. On decorticated, decaying limbs of Fraxinus viridis, Trego Co., Kansas, Apr.
1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,457).
Perithecia crowded, superficial, with the base broadly adnate, conical, somewhat shining above, 300-400// diam.
Ostiolum obtusely conical, mostly more or less compressed, with the opening elongated subhysteriform.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, 100-110x1215.
", with a short, crooked stipe and abundant paraphyses.
Sporidia uniseriate, short-elliptical, pale yellow-brown, 3-septate, obtuse, more or less constricted at the middle septum, coarsely niuriform, 12-15 X 10-12//.
Sometimes the sporidia are smaller and darker with a shriveled look.
On account of the slightly compressed ostiola this approaches TeicJtospora.
Cucurbitaria borealis E. & E. On bark of dead limbs of Salix sp., Alcove, N. York (C. L. Shear, No.
216).
Perithecia cespitose, 6-12 together in compact groups, 2-3 mm.
diam., seated on the surface of the inner bark and loosely surrounded by the ruptured and upturned epidermis, 3-2 mm.
diam.
, black, rough, subglobose, with a prominent ostiolum soon perforated.
.
Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, 90-110 x 15—16//.
Sporidia uniseriate or subbiseriate above, elongated ovateelliptical, about 7-septate and niuriform, somewhat constricted in the middle, yellow-brown, obtuse, 20-27 x 12-14//.
Differs from C. salicina Fckl.
in its cespitose perithecia and larger, 7-septate sporidia.
Sphaerella hypsicola E. & E. Perithecia scattered or subgregarious, ovateglobose, 80-90/'.
diam., subcuticular or superficial by the falling away of the epidermis, pierced above with a small round opening.
Asci oblong, sessile, fasciculate, 25-35 x 7-8/', 8-spored.
Sporidia crowded-biseriate, oblong or clavate-oblong, scarcely constricted, hyaline, 9-11 x2i3/'.
On dead stems of Trollins lax us, Cameron Pass, N. W. Colo., July, 1894, alt.
10,200 ft. (Prof. C. S. Crandall, No.
4).
Sphasrella coerulea E. & E. On dead stems of Aquilegia ccerulea, Junction of Big South and Cache la Poudre Rivers, Colo., July, 1894 (Prof. C. S. Crandall, No.
11), alt.
9,000 ft. Perithecia evenly scattered, subcuticular but promiuent, de})ressedhemispherical, 100-120// diam., pierced above.
Asci fasciculate, aparaphysate, oblong, mostly broader near the base, sessile, 8-spored.
Sporidia 2-3-seriate, crowded, clavate-oblong, obtuse, uniseptate and slightly constricted at the septum, 15-20 x 32-4^'/.
Difters from S. Aquilegice E. & G. in its depressed perithecia and narrower sporidia.
Didymella Myricae E. & E. On dead twigs of Myriea cerijera, Kiamensie, Del., July, 1894 (Commons, No.
2,503).
Perithecia scattered, adnate-superficial, depressed-hemispherical, 100-120;/.
diam., with a papilliform ostiolum.
Asci obovate, subinequilateral, sessile, aparaphysate, 40 x 20/'.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong, hyaline, uniseptate and strongly constricted at the septum, ends obtuse, each cell 2-uucleate, 20 x 6-8//.
The cells easily separate.
Didymella Physocarpi E. & E. On dead Wmhs o^ Physocarpus optdifolius, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
488).
Perithecia gregarious, covered by the pustuliform epidermis, about i mm.
diam., white inside, depressed-globose, the papilliform ostiolum barely penetrating the epidermis.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, short-stipitate, 85-90 x 10-12//, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, 4-nucleate, uniseptate, constricted at the septum, hyaline, 19-22x4-5//, mostly a little curved.
Didymosphaeria populifolia E. & E. On fallen leaves of Populus angidata, Shore of Lake Huron, Ontario, Canada, May, 1894 (Dearness, No.
2,263).
Perithecia gregarious, in suborbicular, hypophyllous groups, about 1 cm.
across, not on any definite spots, 80-100// diam., innate, only the subcouoid, minute ostiolum projecting.
Asci cylindrical, shortstipitate, 65-75x8-10//, 8-spored (paraphysate)?
Sporidia uniseriate, oblong, pale brown, uniseptate, slightly constricted, upper cell a little broader, 12-14 x 3A-41//.
Pleospora Richtophensis E. & E. Perithecia tliickly scattered, subcuticular, globose or elliptical, 300-400/i diam., finally more or less collapsing, the papillilbrm ostiolura barely piercing the epidermis.
Asci clavate-oblong, shortstipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, 85-110x20-22;/.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong-elliptical, 5-septate and muriform, mostly constricted in the middle, yellow-brown, end cells paler and subacute, 25-35 x 1214/i.
On dead stems of Helianthus, Mt.
Richtophen, N. W. Colo., July, 1894 (C. F. Baker, No.
238).
Pleospora alpestris E. & E. On decaying stems of TroUins laxus, Cameron Pass, N. W. Colo,, July, 1894 (Prof C. S. Crandall, No.
4, partly).
Perithecia scattered, innate-erumpent, ovate-globose, 250;/ diam., with a papilliform ostiolum.
Asci thin, evanescent, 150x25-30, 2spored (in the specc.
examined).
Sporidia oblongelliptical, or ovate-oblong, 50-65 x 16-24;/, mostly a little constricted in the middle, multi-(9-12-) septate and muriform, deep yellow-brown.
The perithecia have a scanty fringe of coarse, brown, mycelial threads around the base.
This differs from PL polyphragmia Sacc.
in its smaller glabrous perithecia not collapsing, and its larger sporidia with fewer septa.
Pyrenophora Canadensis E. & E. On sheaths of Phleum pratense, London, Canada, July, 1894 (J. Dearness).
Perithecia scattered, buried with the apex erumpent, ovate, 250300;/.
diam., the apex, around the scarcely prominent ostiolum loosely clothed with spreading, brown, continuous hairs 50-80 x 5-6;/.
Asci cylindrical, 150-190 x 28-32;/ (p. sp.
110-120;/).
Paraphyses not seen.
Sporidia 4-8, oblong-elliptical or ovateelliptical, nearly hyaline, obtuse, 3-septate, scarcely constricted, when mature one or two of the cells divided by a longitudinal septum, 40-55 x 15-20;/.
Leptosphgeria sambucina E. & E. On dead Sambucus melanoearpa, Cameron Pass, Colo., alt.
10,000 ft., July, 1894 (C. F. Baker).
Perithecia buried, ovate-globose, 350-400;/.
diam., i-aising the epidermis into pustules which are whitish at first with the minute, black, papilliform ostiolum visible in the center.
Asci clavatecylindrical, 100-120x12;/, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia fusoidcylindrical, slightly curved, uniseptate and constricted at first, finally 6-8eptate and constricted at the septa, generally with one cell near the middle, swollen, 22-27 x 6-7/^1, golden-yellow.
Differs from L. agnita Desm.
in its broader, golden-yellow Bporidia.
L. Samhaci in Roum.
F. Gall.
5960, has 3-septate sporidia.
Leptosphaeria papyricola E. & E. On old pasteboard lying by the roadside, Newfield, N. J,, Aug. 1894.
Perithecia gregarious, buried, with the acutely conical ostiolum erurapent, llO-loO," diam.
, ovate-globose.
Asci (p.
sp.)
60-70 x 5a, with a siender stipe 30-40// long, paraphyses obscure.
Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, dull yellow, slightly curved, 3-septate, often constricted at the middle septum with the next cell above swollen, 1420 (mostly about 15) x 21-3//.
Differs from au}'^ form of L. eustoma (Fr. )
in its conical ostiolum and constantly narrower sporidia.
An Ophiobolus with asci 110-120 x 5//, spoi'idia filiform 80-110 X lo,", also occurs on the same matrix.
Ophiobolus fragilisporus E. & E. Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, ovate-conical, brownishblack, 350-450// high, 300-350// thick, ^ narrowed above into the prominentpapilliform or shortcylindricaj, black ostiolum.
Asci linear, gradually narrowed below, 150-200 x 5-5*//.
Paraphyses filiform, evanescent.
Sporidia nearly as long as the asci, yellowishbrown, 1-1]// thick, readily separating into joints 8-12// long.
Allied to 0. rudis (Riess.
), but sporidia only half as thick and perithecia ovate-conical.
On dead herbaceous stems, on overflowed land, Walton Creek, Colorado, July, 1894, alt.
6,500 ft. (Prof C. S. Crandall, No.
40).
Linospora Brunellae E. & E. On living leaves of Brunella vulgaris, Columbia River, W. Klikitat Co., Wash., Apr.
1886 (W. N. Suksdorf, No.
267).
Perithecia thickly scattered, amphigenous, l^uried in the substance of the leaf, but raising the epidermis into little black tubercles about i mm.
diam.
, and pierced above by the papilliform or short-cylindrical ostiolum.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, 80-90x12-15//, 8-spored, (paraphysate)?
Sporidia fasciculate, lying parallel, clavate-cylindrical, yellowish-hyaline, 3-septate, not constricted, 55-65 x 3//.
23 Hypospila Brunellae E. & E. On leaves of Brunella vulgaris, Seattle, Wash., Sept. 1892 (C. V. Piper).
Perithecia buried in the substance of the leaf, h mm.
diaro., the base hemisphericalprominent below, the conic-papilliform ostiolum erumpeut through the slightly tubercular-elevated epidermis above.
Asci clavate-cyliudrical, 90-110 x 12/', 8-8pored, with tiliform paraphyses.
Sporidia cylindrical, crowded, nearly straight, faintly 1-3septate, obtuse, 55-62 x 3^-4//.
Anthootomella hypsophila E. & E. Perithecia gregarious, buried in the bark, globose, black, ^—2 mm.
diam., raising the surface of the bark into distinct pustules which are barely pierced by the papilliform ostiolum.
Asci cylindrical, 90-110x12,'/, paraphysate, 8-spored, stipitate.
Sporidia uniseriate, narrow-elliptical, deep brown and finally opake, 15-18 x 810//.. On dead stems of Loaicera involacrafa, Cameron Pass, N. W. Colo., alt.
10,000 ft. (C. F. Baker).
Anthostomella suberumpens E. & E. On inner surface of loosened elm bark, Rockport, Kansas, Nov. 1893 (Bartholomew, No.
1,244).
Perithecia gregarious, sunk in the bark, with the stout, conical ostiolum and often the apex of the perithecium erumpent, 250-320;/ diam., with tolerably thick walls.
Asci cylindrical, shortstipitate, 90-110 X 7-8//, 8-spored, with filiform paraphyses.
Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical, brown, becoming nearly opake, 12x6-8//.
Distinguished from other species by its stout, conical ostiolum and suberumpent perithecia, approaching RoseUinia.
Diaporthe (Chorost.)
stereostoma E. & E. On dead branches of Si/mpJwricarpon occidentalis, Rockport, Kansas, June, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,482).
Stromata scattered or subcoufiuent, enclosed in a thin, black, subcarbonaceous crust, conical or subpulvinate, 1-3 mm.
diam., seated on the wood and covered by the thin bark which is raised into pustules and pierced by the fascicle of stout, black, conic-cylindrical ostiola which are 2-I mm.
long.
Perithecia 3-12 in a stroma, subglobose, about i mm.
diam.
, slightly sunk in the surface of the wood which is marked by a cluster of shallow cup-shaped cavities 1894,] NATURAI.
SCIENCES OF PHIIjADELPHIA.
339 when the perithecia are removed.
Asci (p.
sp.)
45-50 x 7-8//, clavate-cylindrical, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong, 3-4-nucleate, slightly constricted in the middle, obtuse, hyaline, 10-12 X 8i-4/.'..
Very distinct from D. Ryckholtii, which is also found on SympJioricarpos.
Diaporthe (Chorostate) tetraptera E. & E. On dead limbs of Halesia tetraptera, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall).
Stroma cortical, 1^-2 mm.
diam., surrounded by a black line which does not penetrate the wood.
Perithecia 4-12, circinate, 5 mm.
diam., sunk to the wood and leaving their impress on its surface but not penetrating it.
Ostiola obtusely rounded and perforated, erumpent in a compact fascicle and closely surrounded by the ruptured epidermis.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, 75-80 x 12;/.
Sporidia biseriate, obloug-fusoid, slightly curved, subobtuse, hyaline, uniseptate and constricted at the septum, each cell with a large nucleus, 19-22 X 5-7;/.
Differs from D. Haleske E. & E. in its smaller perithecia, not sunk in the wood and its much larger sporidia.
Diaporthe (Chorostate) Halesiae E. & E. On dead limbs of Halesia tetraptera, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall).
Perithecia 4-8, loosely circinate, f mm.
horn-color inside, becoming nearly black, sunk in the wood, necks converging with their obtuse, smooth, hemisphei'ical ostiola erumpent in a close fascicle, closely surrounded by the ruptured epidermis.
Asci slender, 55-60 x 6-7//, short-stipitate.
Sporidia subbiseriate, fusoidoblong, hyaline, 2-4nucleate, becoming uniseptate and slightly constricted, straight, 12— 15 X 2i-3//.
There is no distinct circumscribing line around the stroma, but the inner surface of the bark is uniformly blackened.
Diaporthe Araliae E. & E. On dead limbs of Aralia spinosa, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
312).
Stroma buried in the wood and circumscribed by a penetrating, black line, elliptical, about 5x4 ram.
Perithecia buried in the stroma, few (6-10) globose, A-J mm.
diam., their short-cylindrical, ostiola projecting from a black, tubercular disk seated on the surface of the wood and perforating the pustuliform-elevated epidermis, but scarcely rising above it.
Asci clavatecylindrical, 40-45 x 56,'i, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong, 4nucleate, becoming uniseptate and slightly constricted, hyaline, obtuse, 1213x2i-3//.
Allied to and resembling D. ocularia C. & E. Valsa ribicola E. & E. On dead Ribes aureitm, Rockport, Kansas, Aug. 1894 (E. Bartholomew, No.
1,530).
Perithecia eircinate, 10-12 buried in the unchanged substance of the inner bark, not penetrating to the wood or circumscribed by any black line, 230-250," diam., ovate-globose, with slender necks converging, with their rounded, black, finally subumbilicate ostiola eruinpent around the margin of a dirty white disk.
Asci clavatecyliudrical, about 60 x 8;/.
Sporidia biseriate above, allantoid, hyaline, obtuse, moderately curved, 12-15 x 3-4a.
The white disk is only the top of a grayish-white central column around the base of which lie the perithecia, in a circle 1^-2 mm.
diam.
This cannot easily be mistaken for V. ribesia Karst., which has sporidia only about half as large and differs also in other respects.
Valsa Chionantlii E. & E. On dead limbs of Chionanthus Virginica, Nuttallburg, West Va., March, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
228).
Perithecia 4-10, globose, ]—h mm.
diam., buried in the unchanged substance of the bark, with convergent necks, terminating in shortcylindrical, obtuse, perforated ostiola erumpent in a close fascicle perforating and slightly raising the bark.
Asci clavate, p. sp.
4045 X 8-10,'/, 8-sp()red, paraphysate?
Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, 1215x3^-4i.
", biseriate above.
Spermogonia ( Cytispora Chioncmthi E. & E, ) buried in the bark, flask-shaped, o--!," diam., nuiltilocular, the cells soon confluent, the apex erumpent and perforated by a single pore.
Sporules allantoid, 4—6x1-1},'/, borne on basidia branched above, the branches erect, straight, nucleate, 7-10// long.
Valsa Diospyri E. & E. On dead limbs of D'wspxjros Virr/iniaiia, Nuttallburg, West Va., Dec. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
253).
Stroma consisting of the slightly blackened substance of the bark, convex, about 2 mm.
diam., not circumscribed.
Perithecia 4—1 in a stroma, subglobose, \-i mm.
diam., necks converging and united above in a small, black disk which perforates the pustuliformelevated epidermis, but does not rise above it.
Ostiola short, conic-cylindrical, with a smooth, round opening, crowded and finally obliterating the disk.
Asci clavatelanceolate, p. sp.
25 x 5,'j., 8-spored, paraphysate.
Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, 8-10x1^-2//.
Spermogonia (Cytispora) in the young stroma, multilocular gray inside, opening by a single, central pore.
Spermatia allantoid, hyaline, moderately curved, 4-5 x li,a.
Valsa etherialis E. & E. On dead limbs of Acer rubrum, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
373).
Stromata cortical, thickly scattered, convex, 1-1 •> mm.
diam.
Perithecia 6-12 together, circiuate, buried in the unaltered substance of the bark, small, 150-250,'a diam., their short necks terminating in an erumpeut, compact fascicle of obtuse, black, slighly unbilicate ostiola closely embraced by the epidermis and scarcely rising above it.
Asci (p. sp. )
fusoid, 15-22x4-42//, stipitate, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, allantoid, hyaline, curved, slender, 5-6 x about 1/j..
When well developed, the epidermis is raised into subdiscoid pustules in which the slight protuberances indicate the position of the subjacent perithecia.
V. delicatitla C. & E. has fewer, larger perithecia and broader sporidia.
V. mierospora Cke.
& Plowr.
bas also larger perithecia and yellow'ish sporidia, and the ostiola are more or less distinctly sulcate, indicating its close relationship to Eutijpella.
In F. etherialis the sporidia both in and out of the asci are perfectly hyaline.
Eutypella densissima E. «fe E. On dead limbs of Aralia spinosa, Nuttallburg, W. Va. , Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
363).
Stromata scattered, cortical, depressed-conical, 2-3 mm.
diam., not circumscribed, but staining the bark olive-gray.
Perithecia numerous, often 50-70 in a stroma, 100-120// diam., closely packed, their slender necks terminating in obtusely conical, 4-cleft, black, densely crowded ostiola erumpent in a brown disk surrounded by the ruptured epidermis.
The disk is soon obliterated, so that only the crowded, black, subshining ostiola are seen.
Asci clavate-fusoid, p. sp.
25-30x4;/.. Sporidia biseriate, allautoid, hyaline, moderately curved, 8-10x1^-2//.
Eutypella carpinicola E. &.
E. On dead limbs of Carpimis Americana, Alcove, N. Y., Oct. 1893 (C. L. Shear, No.
190).
Stromata cortical, flat, subconfluent, 11-2 mm.
diam.
, formed from the scarcely altered, superficial layer of the inner bark, below which the substance of the bark and surface of the wood i.s uniformly blackened.
Perithecia subcircinate, 3-6 together, ^-f mm.
diam., with thick, coriaceous walls, their short necks erumpent in a small, flattened, tubercular, black disk, which pierces the papilliformelevated epidermis, and appears like a small black speck on its surface.
Ostiola erumpent through the disk, broad, flat, soon stellately cleft.
Asci slenderclavate, p. sp.
40-50x5//, or including the slender stipe, 80-100/'.
long, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, allantoid, yellowish, slightly curved, obtuse, 8-10x2//.
The perithecia lie in the superficial layer of the inner bark, and when the epidermis is pulled off", this layer and the imbedded perithecia adhere to and come off" with it.
The perithecia are then seen to be surrounded by a thin white layer apparently formed from the substance of the bark.
Calosphaeria cornioola E. & E. On dead limbs of Cornus asperifolia, Rock port, Kansas, May, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,470).
Perithecia scattered or loosely collected in subvalsiform groups of 3-5, minute, 200-250// diam., buried in the unchanged substance of the inner bark, covered by the epidermis which is raised into little pustules and pierced by the papilliform ostiola.
Asci clavate, 27-32x6-62//, rounded above and gradually narro^ved to the base.
Paraphyses linear, nucleate, much longer than the asci.
Sporidia biseriate, cylindrical, hyaline, curved, obtuse, 10-12x2/7..
Differs from C. minima Tul.
(also on Cornus) in its sporidia twice as long and rather broader.
The scattered mode of growth is like that of C. microtheca C. & E. Endoxyla aoericola E. & E. On rotten maple wood, Granton, Ontario, Canada, Jan. 1894 (Dearness, No.
2,235).
Perithecia scattered or subvalsiforra-aggregated, globose, black.
1894.]
naturaIj sciences of Philadelphia.
343 300-o50,'x diam., entirely buried iu the unchanged substance of the wood, their short-cylindrical or coniccylindrical ostiola exserted either singly or in loose fascicles.
Asci cylindrical, 130-140 x 12//.
(p. sp.
90-1 10,'/.
), paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-cylindrical, 3-septate and constricted at the septa, obtuse, not curved, brown, apparently roughish, 18-22 x 8— 10«.
Pseudovalsa viticola E. & E. On dead shoots of Vitii riparla, Roekport, Kansas, April, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,454).
Perithecia buried in the unchanged substance of the inner bark, either singly or 2-4 together, globose, soft, i-f mm.
diam., raising the epidermis into distinct pustules, which are pierced by the papilliform or tubercular-papilliform ostiolum.
x\sci cylindrical, shortstipitate, 8-spored, paraphysate, 100-120x10-12;/.
Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-cylindrical, straight or very slightly curved, obtuse, 3-septate and slightly constricted, 15-20x8-9,', light yellowbrown.
Valsaria allantospora E. & E. On dead Xegundo aceroides, Roekport, Kansas, April.
1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,450).
Stroma cortical, elliptical (in a horizontal section), 4-7x3 mm., or subseriate-elougated for 1-2 cm., formed from the substance of the bark which becomes of a lighter color than the surrounding parts, and is limited by a black line which penetrates the wood to the depth of about 1 mm.
Perithecia 6-12 in a stroma, globose, black, thick walled, not sunk in the wood, f-1 mm.
diam.
Ostiola erumpent, slightly projecting, conical, black, not sulcate, not crowded, connected by a thin, black crust.
Asci clavate, short-stipitate, p. sp.
55-62x8-10// (paraphysate)?
Sporidia biseriate, cylindrical, slightly curved, yellowish and 2-nucleate at first, becoming brown and uniseptate, but not constricted, 12-15x8-32//.
Diatrype celastrina E. & E. On dead stems of Celastrus scandens, Roekport, Kansas, May, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,472).
Stromata scattered, cortical, light wood-color within, depressed-conical, 2-3 mm.
diam., raising the epidermis into distinct pustules, ruptured above with a small, elliptical opening by the dark-gray disk.
Perithecia 4-12 iu a stroma, subcircinate, ovate, about ixf mm.
diam.
Ostiola scattered or erumpent around the margin of the disk, flat, with au irregularly shaped openiug.
Asci clavatecylindrical, 60-70x7-8,".
(p. sp.
30-35,v, long;, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, cylindrical, smoky yellow-brovvn, slightly curved, obtuse, 10-12x2-3//.
Stroma circumscribed by a black line, which does not penetrate the wood.
This can hardly be the Sphceria dolom Fr., said by Schw.
to occur on Celadrm.
It is certainly different from the spec, so labeled in Sydow's Mycotheca Marchica.
Anthostoma formosum E & E. On bark of dead Geltis occidentalis, Rockport, Kansas, June, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,492).
Stromata scattered, cortical, thick-convex, 2-4 mm.
diam., orbicular or elliptical, formed from the scarcely altered substance of the bark.
Perithecia 12-20 buried in the stroma but not penetrating to the wood, ovate-globose, with thick, cartilagino-membranaceous walls, black and shining inside, about 1 mm.
diam., their slender necks converging, their stout, coniccylindrical ostiola with smooth rounded tips, erumpent in a close fascicle and projecting, when fully developed for 1 mm.
or more, or quite as often, merely raising and rupturing the epidermis, but scarcely rising above it.
Asci cylindrical, stipitate, paraphysate, p. sp.
60-70x4-5//.
Sporidia uniseriate, oblong, dark brown (subhyaline and nucleate at first), straight, obtuse, 7-10x3-4//.
Anthostoma micrcecium E. & E. On dead limbs of Asimina triloba, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall).
Stroma cortical, faintly circumscribed, 1-1 2 mm.
diam., orbicular, convex.
Perithecia 4-8 in a stroma, globose, minute (200-250/'), circinate, necks slender, short, converging, with the minute, papilliform ostiola erumpent in a small, black, hemispherical disk, which barely pierces the pustuliform-elevated epidermis, and is closely embraced by it.
Asci cylindrical, 80-110 x 8-10/*, paraphysate 8-spored.
Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical, brown, continuous, 2-nucleate, 12-14 X 6-7//.
Distinguished by its very small stroma and perithecia.
Diatrypella prunicolaE& E. On dead limbs of Primus Pennsylvaniea, Alcove, N. Y., Feb. 1894 (C. L. Shear, No.
298, partly).
Stroma seated on the inner bark, convexhemispherical, 3-4 mm.
diara., tobacco-color inside, not circumscribed, crowded above with the dense, flattopped orbicular or elliptical fascicle of hemispherical, smooth, soon broadly and irregularly perforated ostiola, which raise and pierce the epidermis with an orbicular opening or oftener protrude through transverse cracks.
Perithecia irregularly polystichous, small (110-150//.
), black and shining inside, numerous, subglobose.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, short-stipitate, 65-70x8-10;/, polysporous, paraphysate.
Sporidia irregular crowded, yellowish in the mass, allantoid, 5-6x1//.
Phyllachora asterigena E & E. On living leaves of Aster oblongifolws, Rockport, Kansas, Aug. 1893 (Bartholomew, No.
1,040).
(Stylospores. )
Forming orbicular or elongated, black patches, 2—6 mm.
in extent, on the under side of the leaves.
Stroma thin, gray inside, surface roughened by the prominent, conic-hemispherical, perforated ostiola.
Ascigerous cells numerous, subglobose, about 100// diam.
Sporules oblong or cj'lindrical, hyaline, uniseptate, slightly constricted at the septum, obtuse, 15— 25 x 4-4 1//..
This does not seem to be Dothidea Haydeni, B.
& C. , which is represented as growing on the stems and having "sporidia linear, attenuated at each end."
Dothidea Solidaginis Schw.
has a different habit, stromata numerous, scattered, tuberculiform and mostly less than 1 mm.
diam.
Hypoxylon occidentale E. & E. On dead limbs and trunks.
Pasadena, Cal.
(Prof. A. J. McClatchie).
Stroma hemispheric-tuberculiform, superficial, sessile, 2-10 cm.
diam., surface roughened by the large, hemispherical ostiola, and clothed with a thin coat of short, olivaceous hyphse, bearing globose, ovate, or oblong-cylindrical conidia, nearly hyaline and continuous at first, finally pale brown and 1-3 septate, 4-15x4-5/'.
Perithecia peripheral, l-lixl-l mm.
Asci cylindrical, 120-150 (p. sp.
about 100) x6-7/', paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, subinequilateral, olive-brown, 14-16x6-7/'.
Has the aspect of Daldinia concentrka, but not zonate withi)% the inner substance consisting of a compact mass of radiating, sooty black fibers with a silky luster.
The species is allied to H. malleolus B.
& R. , from which it is distinguished by its more prominent ostiola not surrounded by any distinct annular depression, and by its broader sporidia and the presence of a conidial layer.
Hypoxylon Nuttallii E. & E. On bark of dead Magnolia Fraseri, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
477).
Stromata gregarious, subconfluent, depressed-hemispherical or strongly convex, 3-6 mm.
diam., purplish-black, mammillose.
Perithecia small (about \ mm.
), scattered irregularly through the stroma, which is rather soft and brownish withiu.
Ostiola crowning the mammillose projections on the surface of the stroma, papilliform, soon deciduous, leaving a round perforation.
The asci in the specc.
examined had disappeared.
Sporidia brown, oblong-elliptical, subinequilateral, 7-8x3-4/'.
(exceptionally '9x5,'/).
Hypoxylon atroviride E. & E. On bark of dead tree (Betiila or Querciis), Nuttallburg, West Va., Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
275).
Stroma pulvinate, 1-1 ^ cm.
across, and about 4 mm.
thick, orbicular, covered above with a thin (i mm.)
carbonaceous crust, which is soon covered by a dark green layer of the ejected spores, laterally and internally dirty umber color.
Perithecia (which constitute the entire inner substance of the stroma) ovate compressed, and including the long, stout neck, about 3 mm.
long and 1 mm.
broad below.
Ostiola papilliform, soon covered and obscured by the ejected sporidia.
Asci cylindrical 100x32-4 " (p. sp.
40-45 long), paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, pale brown, under the microscope 2-uucleate, 4^-52 x 2,7.
This is a wellmarked species.
The substance of the stroma, except the superficial, carbonaceous layer, is friable, and in this respect as well as the color resembles H. Petersii B.
& C. , from which, however, in other respects it is very distinct.
Hysterium cedrinum E. & E. On weather-beaten wood of a white cedar post, Rockport, Ks., March, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,422).
Scattered, erumpent, narrow-elliptical, minute (1-i mm.
), black, subrugulose, not polished, lips thin, loosely closed, when fresh open exposing the dark-colored disk.
Asci oblong, obtuse above, abruptly contracted below into a short stipe, 46-55x16-3 7,'/, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, ovate-elliptical, 3-septate, scarcely or only very slightly constricted, obtuse at the ends, subinequilateral, 18-21x7-8", the cells uniformly brown, and each with a large nucleus.
Conies near H. vuhjare De Not.
and H. ellipticum Fr., but both of these have oblong sporidia, and the former has shining perithecia, besides their different habitat.
Hypoderma tunicatum E. & E. On dead branches of Ardostaphylos Nevadensu Gray, Mt.
Paddo, Wash., July, 1886 (W. N. Suksdorf, No.
268).
Perithecia oblong or lanceolate, prominent, 1-3 x f-l mm., brownish-black, ends subacute, entirely closed at first, finally opening by an irregularly torn, longitudinal fissure along the top, exposing the pale disk.
Asci clavate, 150-200x18-20//, 8-spored, with filiform, branching paraphyses.
Sporidia biseriate, hyaline, oblongelliptical, slightly curved, 3-septate, and including the broad, hyaline envelope, 22x8-10;/, the septate body of the spore being about 20x3 2-4;'.
On the tips of the branches was found Melanomma alpestre E. & E. Hypoderma Cassandrae E. & E. On dead stems and branches of Cassandra calyculata, Ann Arbor, Mich., April, 1893 (L. N. Johnson).
Perithecia scattered or gregarious, erumpent, elliptical or oblong, 1— Ijxi-f mm., membranaceo-coriaceous, black, bordered by the ruptured and upturned epidermis, lips thin, incurved and closed when dry so as to hide the grayish-black disk, finally deciduous.
Asci clavate, narrowed gradually below into a stipe-like base, 45-60 x 10-12;/ above, rounded at the apex, paraphysate.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong or oblong-elliptical, hyaline, mostly a little curved, obtuse, continuous, 10-16x4—6;/.
Not to be confounded with Lophoderynhim ( Cenanghmi) Cassandrae, (Pk.
), which has much longer, linear or filiform sporidia.
* * * DISCOMYCETES.
Barlaea lacunosa E. & E. On bark, Notre Dame Bay, Newfoundland, May, 1894 (Rev.
A. C. Waghorne).
Sessile 2-I2 cm.
broad, orange-color, hymenium deeply lacunose, yellowish-white outside and minutely tomentose, margin undulate and narrowly incurved.
Asci cylindrical, p. sp.
70-90;/, 8-spored.
Paraphyses gradually thickened upwards, hyaline, 3-3^,".
thick at the apex.
Sporidia uniseriate, perfectly globose, hyaline, 8-10// diam.
Comes near B. epichrysea Beck, but asci and sporidia smaller and hyraenium lacunose.
Ciboria juncigena E. & E. On dead stems of Juncus, Falcon Valley, Wash., May, 1883 (W. N. Suksdorf, No.
371).
Stipitate, shallow cup-shaped, thin, 4—5 mm.
diam., glaucous-pruinose outside, disk wine-colored, subumbilicate.
Stipe about 1 cm.
long, 1 mm.
diam.
below, black and longitudinally wrinkled for about t the way up, flesh-color above, base flattened and attached to the culm but not penetrating it.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, about 60 X 4-5//., paraphysate, 8-sj>ored.
Sporidia subbiseriate, allantoid, slightly curved, hyaline, continuous, 7-8 x 1 i//., Ciboria Johnsoni E. & E. N. A. F. No.
3,131.
Growing from decaying "thorn apples" (fraits of Cratmgus), more or less buried in the ground, Ann Arbor, Mich., May, 1893 (L. N. Johnson, No.
626).
Stipe slender, 10-25 mm.
long, subundulate, slightly enlarged above into the strongly concave, 3-8 mm.
diam., light dirty brown ascoma.
Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spoi-ed.
Sporidia uniseriate, mostly overlapping and oblique, sometimes subbiseriate, ovate-elliptical, subacute, hyaline, continuous, 8-10x4-5//.
The disk in drying becomes grayishwhite.
Lachnella rhizopMla E. & E. On decaying roots of Rhus diversiloba, Columbia River, W.
KlikitatCo., Wash., Jan. 1894 (W. N. Suksdorf, No.
306).
Gregarious, subsessile, dirty white, cup-shaped and 2-I mm.
diam.
when fresh, contracted and closed when dry, at flrst subglobose and nearly closed, outside clothed and margin fringed with straight, rough, pale brown (under the microscope), sparingly septate hairs 100-150 X 4//.
Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, 8-spored.
Paraphyses filiform, scarcely thickened above, about as long as the asci.
Sporidia overlapping-uuiseriate, or biseriate, fusoid, hyaline, 2-3nucleate, 10-12 x 3//.
The ascomata remain cup-shaped, with the margin erect.
Disk pale, without any distinct shade of vellow.
Lachnella Virginica E & E. On decaying wood of Magnolia Fraseri, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
380).
Gregarious, sessile, 4-1^ nim.
diam.
Disk pallid, concave, nearly closed when dry, margin fringed with brown, septate hairs, 100-125 X 3,'/, outside clothed with shorter, reddishbrown hairs.
Asci about 50 x 5,', clavate-cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored.
Sporidia subbiseriate, oblong, 6-8x1^-25//.
Pseudohelotium laricinum E. & E. On decaying needles of Larix, in a "Tamarack Swamp," Northfield, Mich., June, 1893 (L. N. Johnson, No.
657).
Ascomata sessile, thin, almost membranaceous, carnose, orange colored, flat-discoid, 3-5 mm.
diam., darker outside and minutely pubescent, margin incurved when dry, beset with short, compound, conical processes formed by the prolongation of the cellular structure of the ascoma.
Asci cylindrical, about 75-8//, with filiform paraphyses, not thickened above, 8-spored.
Sporidia uniseriate, oblongelliptical, obtuse, hyaline, continuous, 8-10x4-5// (mostly about 4//).
[n old, partly weathered specc.
the color becomes a lighter orange.
Cyathicula alpina E. & E. On dead stems of Pedieularis, and culms of Elymus condensatus, N. W. Colo., July, 1894, alt.
9,500 ft.
Minute, about f mm.
high, stipitate, ascomata, shalloAv cup-shaped when fresh, closed when dry, about =} mm.
diam., disk and margin pallid, structure fibrous, the extremities of the fibers prolonged and subfasciculate so as to make the margin of the ascoma obscurely dentate.
Stipe about } mm.
high, whitish.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, short-stipitate, with filiform paraphyses scarcely thickened at the apex.
Sporidia oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, continuous, 8-10 x 1^2'.
The outside of the cups is more or less farinose and becomes quite dark.
This is very near Helotium nigrescens Cke., which lacks the dentate margin, and has larger asci and sporidia, besides being much darker.
Mollisia Gaultheriae E. & E. On living leaves of Gaultheria Shallon, Seattle, Wash., Dec. 1893 (Adella M. Parker, No.
185, in part).
Spots large (l-'2 era.
), orbicular, dirty brown, paler and purple margined above, sometimes ii'regular in shape and occupying the greater part of the leaf.
Ascomata araphigenous, but more numerous below, superficial on paler parts of the spots, small (2 mm.
diara.
), dark liver-color (nearly black when dry), margin nodulosedentate or subentire, glabrous, concave.
Asci clavate-oblong, 4555 X 10-12,'/, with a short, nodular stipe and filiform, branched paraphyses.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong, hyaline, continuous, 10-12 X 3-82//., ends obtuse.
Allied to M. priiticola E. & E., but differs in several respects.
Tapesia Coloradsnsis E. & E. On bark of Sambucus melanocarpa, Cameron Pass, Colorado, July, 1894, alt.
10,000 ft. (C. F. Baker, 236, partly).
Ascomata scattered or subgregarious, sessile, seated on the epidern)is or on the surface of the inner bark, 1-2 mm.
diam., glabrous, nearly black outside, disk glaucous-white, or livid-white at first, becoming nearly black when dry, margin paler, thin and subundulate.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, 45-55 x 8-10//, narrowed below into a short, thick stipe, 8-spored, with stout but evanescent paraphyses.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong-cylindrical, smoky-hyaline, often slightly curved, continuous, obtuse, 8-11 x 22-32//.
The ascomata are surrounded by a thin, brown subiculum (more or less distinct), composed of slender pale brown, sparingly septate, interwoven hyphae.
Allied to T. fusca (Pers.
).
When dry the opposite sides of the ascomata roll together in a hysteriform manner.
Helotiella pygmsea E. & E. On old cornstalks, Ohio (Morgan, No.
993).
Gregai-ious, minute, pallid, yellowish outside, sparingly clothed and margin fringed with pale slender hairs.
When moist convexdiscoid, \—i mm.
diam., pallid; when dry urceolate and yellowish, attached to the matrix by a central point and by light colored hairs.
Asci (p. sp. )
about 30 x 6//.
(paraphysate?
), 8-spored.
Sporidia biseriate, fusoid-obloug, hyaline, 4-nucleate, becoming uniseptate, and sometimes slightly constricted, 10-14 x 3-32//.
Differs from H. carnosnla Rehm in its smaller size and absence of any clavate paraphyses.
Helotiella papyricola E. & E. On old paper lying by the roadside, Ann Arbor, Mich., March, 1893 (L. N. Johnson, No.
1,564, partly).
Found also at Newfield, N.J. Ascomata gregarious, sessile or contracted below into a very short stipe, pale orange, of a .soft waxy consistency, discoid when fresh, and 200-300 " diam., subspherical and nearly closed when dry, outside, sparingly furfuraceous, margin fringed with short, spreading hairs.
Asci oblong, very short-stipitate, obscurely paraphysate, 8-spored, 25-30 x 12//, or elongated, 50-60 x 8/'.
Sporidia biseriate, cylindric-fusoid, hyaline, slightly curved, siibobtuse, 2-4-nucleate, becoming uniseptate, but not constricted, 12-15 x 3;/.
The paper is stained orange-red around the groups of ascomata.
Helotiella major E. & E. On rotten wood, Ann Arbor, Mich., June, 1893 (F. E. Langdon, Comm.
L. N. Johnson, No.
12).
Ascomata gregarious, often subconfluent, sessile, 1-2 mm.
diam., dirty orange inside, dirty white outside and sparingly clothed (the whitish margin more densely so) with short, pale, glandular hairs, expanded when mature and fresh, margin incurved when dry, attached to the matrix by spreading, white filaments, which also form a thin subiculum when the ascomata are crowded.
Asci oblonsfcylindrical, sessile, paraphysate, 8-spored, 65-70 x 7-8".
Sporidia mostly biseriate, oblong-cylindrical, slightly curved, hyaline, uniseptate, not constricted, 12-16 x 2i-3,'/.
H. cornida (Ell.)
is much smaller and has the sporidia apiculate.
H. Niittallii E. & E. , to which this is closely allied, is also smaller, with the ascomata of fibrous structure, and clothed with longer and much more abundant hairs.
Occasionally a spore is 3-septate, but the texture of the ascomata is caruose, not waxy or coriaceous as in Dermatelht.
Helotiella Nuttallii E. & E. On rotten wood, Nuttallburg, West Va., March, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, 397).
Ascomata gregarious, sessile, flat-hemispherical, l-l mm.
diam., cup-shaped when fresh, contracted and subspherical when dry with only a small round apical opening, orange color tljroughout, disk watery orange, outside and fringed margin paler.
Substance fibrous, the fibres prolonged above so as to make a marginal fringe of pale yellow, roughish, straight hairs.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, sessile, curved 50-60 x 5-6//.
Paraphyses filiform, hardly thickened above, with a series of orange-colored, globose nuclei.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong, hyaline, obtuse, uniseptate but not constricted, 8-10 x 25-3//.
The outside of the ascomata is slightly hairy so that the specc.
might be referred to Solenopeziza, if that is really worthy of generic distinction.
Dermatella viticola E. & E. On dead shoots of Vitis (cult.
), Nuttallburg, West Va., Jan. 1894, (L. W. Nuttall, No.
295, partly).
Sessile, convex-discoid and pale when moist, concave and fleshcolor when dry, and then scarcely projecting above the surface of the bark, j-f mm.
diam.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, about 70 x 12//., with filiform paraphyses, 8-spored, subsessile.
Sporidia subbiseriate, oblongelliptical, hyaline, 1-3-septate (3-4-nucleate at first), 15-18 X 6-6 i/'.
Belonium arabicolum E. & E. On dead stems of Arabls furcata, Mt.
Paddo, Wash., alt.
6-7,000 ft., July, 1886 (W. N. Suksdorf, No.
347).
Ascomata erumpent-superficial, sessile, orbicular, black, 300-400//.
diam., subdiscoid, marginate, Asci clavate, 80-100 x 9-10//, with filiform paraphyses broadly curved at the tips.
Sporidia filiform, nucleate (becoming septate)?
40-60 x 11//.
Resembles outwardly Pyrenopeziza atrata (Pers.).
Tympanis Oxydendri E. & E. On dead limbs of Oxydendrum arboreum, Nuttallburg, West Va., Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
258).
Cespitose, 3-5 together, erumpent, at length deciduous, black, j-if mm.
diam., contracted below into a short, thick stipe, margin subundulate.
Asci cylindrical, 110-130 x 15-18//, including the short stipe.
Paraphyses slender, abundant.
Sporidia numerous, minute, oblong, hyaline or yellowish, 22-3 x 1//.. Allied to T. fasciculata Schw., but asci larger and sporidia smaller.
Stictis Vaccinii E. & E. On dead leaves of Vacclnium ovatum, Tracyton, Kitsap Co., Wash., Dec. 1893 (Adella M. Parker, No.
217).
Hypophyllous, gregarious, erumpent, generally on an indefinite.
pale spot which is often visible also on the upper side of the leaf, but often without any spot, orbicular or somewhat irregular in outline f-1 mm.
diam., with a prominent, light colored, 3-4-cleft margin, Hymenium glaucous white, plane.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, sessile, 70-75 X 6,'/.
Paraphyses filiform, branched at the tips and bearing minute, subglobose, hyaline conidia.
Sporidia filiform, multinucleate, hyaline, 50-55x1^-2/7..
This is a more robust species than S. quercifolia Cke., which also has longer asci and narrower sporidia, but the two are closely allied.
Stictis chrysopsis E. & E. On dead stems of Ceanothus integerrimus, Columbia River, W. Klikitat Co., Wash., Jan. 1894 (W.N.
Suksdorf, No.
309).
Ascomata scattered, immersed, exposed above and at first covered with a thin, white membrane, soon open, urceolate, exposing the deep orange-colored disk, 1-1 o mm.
diam.
Asci cylindrical, 200-225 x 8-10/^.
Paraphyses filiform, about as long as the asci, simple, scarcely thickened above, about 1," thick.
Sporidia filiform, multinucleate, nearly as long as the asci, li— 2// thick, hyaline, interwoven.
Schizoxylon compositum E. & E. On dead twigs of Quercus coccinea, Newfield, N. J., and on dead twigs of Symphoricarpos occidentalis, Rockport, Kansas (Bartholomew).
Ascomata erumpent-superficial, discoid, white pruinose, f-lj mm.
diam.
Disk, when the white pruinose layer disappears, distinctly olivaceous.
Asci fusoid-cylindrical or lanceolate, 150-200 x 8-10//, 8-spored, short-stipitate.
Sporidia linear, 100-150 x 3-4//.
Separating into elliptical or oblong joints 5-8 x 3-4//.
This differs from all the other species in the excipulum, containing often 2-6 distinct ascigerous nuclei, resembling on a horizontal section, so many imbedded perithecia.
The paraphyses are filiform and more or less recurved and branched above.
Sphaeropeziza Coloradensis E. & E. On decorticated stems of PotentUla frxiticosa.
North Park, Colo. , July, 1894 (Prof C. S. Crandall, No.
30).
Ascomata scattered, erumpent-superficial, about f mm.
diam., subglobose and closed at first, then depressed and dehiscent above, with the fimbriate-lacerate margin incurved.
Asci clavate, 45-50 X 5-6//, sessile and closely surrounded and overtopped by the con24 glutinate paraphyses.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, 2-5(mostly 3-) septate, not constricted, ends rounded, 10-14 x 3-3 J//.
Patinella macrospora E. & E. On dead stems of Geum Rossii, mountains above Cameron Pass, N. W. Colo., alt.
12,000 ft., July, 1894 (Prof C. S. Crandall, No.
24).
Ascomata gregarious, discoid, superficial, attached by a central point, olive-black, glabrous, about f mm.
diam., disk flat, with a thin, narrow, entire, erect margin.
Asci clavate-cylindrical, 100110 X 15-20,'/.
8-spored.
Paraphyses stout, simple, olivaceous above, and enlarged into an obovate, olivaceous head, 6—7 x 5—6//.. Sporidia uniseriate below, sul)biseriate above, elliptical, hyaline, smooth, 2-nucleate, about 20 x 10,", apparently not fully matured.
Differs from P. hyalophcea Sacc.
principally in its much larger sporidia.
Scleroderris orientalis E. & E. On dead limbs of Cedrus Libani (cult.
), Newfield, N. J., April, 1894.
Ascomata erumpent, cespitose, obconical, dirty white, small, 300400,'.
diam., pulverulent, closely crowded together, or more rarely single, with much the same habit as S. pallldala Cke., and Dermatea carnea C. & E. Disk plane or convex, immarginate.
Asci clavateoblong, stipitate, p. sp.
55-60 x 12-14'/, i)araphysate.
Sporidia biseriate, oblong, obtuse, straight or slightly curved, 3-septate, not constricted, hyaline, 18-23 x 8-10,".
.
* * * * SPH^ROPSIDEiE.
Phyllosticta lindericola E. & E. On leaves of Lindera Benzoin, Nuttallburg, West Va., Sept. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
593).
Spots various, punctiform and minute without any definite border or irregular in shape, 1 mm.-l or li cm.
diam., or marginal, forming a narrow strip along the edge of the leaf for half its length, pale brown, nearly the color of weather-beaten wood, with a dark (almost black) border.
Perithecia epiphyllous, hemispherical, 100-120//.
diain., covered by the blackened epidermis which is raised into pustules barely pierced at the apex.
Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline, 47 X 2-3//..
This differs in almost every respect from Ph.
Liiuleni' E. & E. Phyllosticta Brunellse E. & E. On leaves of Brunella vulgaHs, Seattle, Wash., Sept. 1892 (Prof. C. V. Piper).
Spots rusty brown, of irregular shape, subaugular, 3-4 mm.
diam., or often much larger, occupying half or more of the leaf, definitely limited but without any distinct border.
Perithecia buried in the substance of the leaf, minute, dark colored, scarcely visible.
Sporules cylindrical, 3-3^ x s-f/^, straight, obtuse, slightly swollen at each end, much like those of Ph.
osteospora Sacc, which, however, has sporules 6-7 x 1//.
Phyllosticta ferax E. & E. On fading leaves of Lupinus albifrons, Pasadena, Cal., Apr.
1894 (Prof A. J. McClatchie, 682).
Spots subindefinite, epiphyllous, dark, dirty brown, more or less confluent, blackening and killing the leaves.
Perithecia epiphyllous, abundant, scattered over the spots and over the green parts of the leaf, semiemergent, globose, of rather coarse cellular structure, 110-150;'diam., perforated above.
Sporules abundant, hyaline, continuous, 3-4 x 1-1 i//.
Phyllosticta macrospora E. & E. On leaves of Liriodendron Tulipifera, Nuttallburg, West Va. , Aug. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall).
Spots few, suborbicular, ferruginous-gray, 3-5 mm.
diam., with a narrow, raised, darker border.
Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline, nucleate, 15-30 (mostly 20-25 x 6-7//.).
Phyllosticta allantospora E. & E. On leaves of Cakile Americana, Sandy Hook, N. J., June, 1892 (F. L. Stevens).
Spots suborbicular, wood-color brown, 3-4 mm.
diam., margin broad, greenish, subindefinite.
Perithecia epiphyllous, subdiscoid, perforated, 100-110;i diam.
Sporules oblong or short-cylindrical, hyaline, obtuse, mostly a little curved, 3-5 x H//.
Phyllosticta Araliae E. & E. On leaves of Aralia spinosa, Nuttallburg, West Va., Sept. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
588).
Spots suborbicular, light brown, with the margin a little darker, j-1 cm.
diam.
Perithecia epiphyllous, somewhat flattened, 100150//.
diam.
Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline, 2-nucleate, 1015x5-6//.
Phyllosticta Aplectri E. & E. On leaves of Apledrum hyemale, Naaman's Creek, Del., Apr.
1894 (Commons, No.
2,408).
Spots of irregular shape, whitish, with a shaded purple border, 1 cm.
diam.
Perithecia crowded in the spots, erumpeut, depressedglobose, 75-90//., with a distinct papilliform ostiolum, of a coarse cellular, dark olivaceous texture.
Sporules elliptical, hyaline, 6-9 x 5;', filled with small nuclei.
Accompanied by Fusicladium Aplectri E. & E. on the same spots.
Phyllosticta rhoicola E. & E. On leaves of Rhns Toxicode)idron,^utta\\huYg, West Va. , Aug. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
567, partly).
Spots 4-6 mm.
diam., deciduous, grayish-white, with a narrow black border.
Perithecia epiphyllous, scattered, 100-110," diam., convex-prominent above, visible also below.
Sporules narrow-elliptical, hyaline, 2-nucleate, 5-6 x 2-3;/.
Differs from P. toxirui.
E. & M. in its larger deciduous spots with a narrow border, and its narrow-elliptical sporules.
Phyllosticta Anemonis E. & E. On leaves of Anemone Pennsylvanica, Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 1893 (Harriet L. Merrow).
Perithecia gregarious, hypophyllous, depressed-globose, erumpentsuperficial, 90-110// diam., subastomous, on light brown, dead looking areas of the leaf, more or less distinctly bounded by the veinlets.
Sporules short-cylindrical, slightly curved, obtuse, 5-7 x li//.
This is different from Phyllachora Anemonis (Fr.
), which is found both on the petioles and leaves, and has the characteristic stromata of the Dothideaceie, the single stromata being about twice as large as the perithecia of our Phyllosticta.
and each containing (sec.
spec, in F. G. 192) 3-6 ascigerous cells.
Phyllosticta Quercus-Prini E. & E. On leaves of Quercus Prinus, Nuttallburg, West Va., July, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
542).
Spots orbicular, rusty brown, definite, with a very narrow border, 2-3 mm.
diam.
Perithecia epiphyllous, scattered, erumpent, 90110// diam.
Sporules ovate or oblong, hyaline, mostly a little curved, 5-6^ x 2-2i'/.
This comes verv near Ph.
Lndoviciana E. & E. (J. M. II, p. 130), but in that species the spots are larger, perithecia more prominent below, and sporules rather larger.
Ph.
marginalis E. & E. also has similar sporules but the perithecia are hypophyllous.
Phyllosticta Castaneae E. & E. On leaves of Castanea vesca, near Nuttallburg, West Va., July, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
570).
Spots orbicular, rust coloi*, with narrow, dark-shaded margin.
Perithecia epiphyllous, scattered on the spots, dark, semierumpent, 100" diam., often collapsing.
Sporules oblong, hyaline, 5-7x2Phoma negundinioola Thum., var.
ramicola E. & E. On dead limbs of Negundo aceroides, Nuttallburg, West Va., Apr.
1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
466), Delaware (Commons).
Perithecia evenly, but not thickly scattered, globose, small, J-J mm.
diam., covered by the slightly ruptured epidermis, but distinctly prominent.
Sporules oblong-elliptical, or ovate, hyaline, with a single large nucleus, 10-13 x 4-52/'.
Differs from the typical form on the dead peduncles, in its broader (2J-3,'/) sporules.
Phoma Pennsylvauica E. & E. On dead limbs of Acer Pennsylvanicum, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (Nuttall, No.
318).
Perithecia numerous, evenly scattered, subepidermal, i-| mm.
diam., whitish inside, raising the epidermis into minute pustules, but 8carceh' rupturing it.
Sporules subglobose, 6-71//.
diam., nearly hvaliue.
Phoma pedunculi E. & E. Ou old peduncles of MarpioUa Fraseri, Nuttallburg, West Va., Jan. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
297).
Perithecia scattered, flattish pustuliform, i-| mm.
diam., with a prominent, papilliform ostiolum.
Sporules fusoid-oblong, hyaline, 23-nucleate, 7-11 x 2-2^//, ends acute.
Differs from Stagonospora peduncAili E. & E. in its larger, flatter perithecia and fusoid-oblong (not* cylindrical), rather shorter sporules.
Phoma ohscurans E. & E. Ou leaves of Fragaria (cult.
), Nuttallburg, West Va., and Newfield, N. J.
Spots 5-8 mm.
diam.
, with a ferruginous center and broad purple border, paler below.
Perithecia few, scattered, convex-promiiieut.
Sporules oblong elliptical, hyaline, 2-nucIeate, 4i-5i x 12-2/;.
Basidia simple, lanceolatefusoid, 8-12 x H;/.
Phyllosticta fragaricola Desm.
has similar sporules, but (sec.
specc.
in the various exsiccati), the spots are much smaller, with a white center.
The basidia also indicate Phoma and not Phyllosticta.
Aposphaeria alpigena E. & E. On dead stems of Sambucus nielanocarpa, Cameron Pass, Colo., July, 1894 (C. F. Baker).
Perithecia scattered, superficial, globose or elliptical, 150-250/jt diam., mostly depressed, obscurely papillate.
Sporules elliptical, hyaline, enucleate, S-Si x I^/jDiffers from A. fuscidula Sacc.
in growing on the bark (not on decorticated limbs), and in its smaller sporules.
Aposphaeria pezizoides E. & E. On decorticated wood of Platanus, Liqvidambar, Fraxinus, Acer, Salix nigra, and S. falcata, Nuttallburg, West Va., April.
1894 (L. W. Nuttall).
Perithecia erum pentsuperficial, seriate-aggregate, hemispherical, about 4 mm.
diam., with a distinct papilliform ostiolum, at length collapsing and pezizoid or discoid.
Sporules elliptical or ovoid, 46 X 2^//, ends obtuse.
This seems to grow exclusively on abrasions, below highwater mark, made by driftwood on small trees.
Spliaeroiiema Physocarpi E. & E. On dead stems of Phy so carpus op rdifolitis, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
484).
Perithecia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, hemispherical, 150^ diam., with a straight, stout beak 90-115// long.
Sporules narrowelliptical, hyaline, 2-3-nucleate, 7-9 x 2hij.. Sirococcus Halesiae E. & E. On dead limbs of Halesia tetraptera, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
376).
Perithecia scattered or 2-3-conuate, erumpent, subglobose, about J mm.
diam., black, with a minute papilliform ostiolum.
Sporules subglobose, about 3// diam., greenish-hyaline, 3-6-concatenate, the terminal sporule oblong and paler.
Chains simple, or sparingly branched, arising directly from the proligerous layer without any distinct basidia, collected in stellate clusters.
Pyrenochsete papyricola E. & E. On old pasteboard lyiug by the roadside, Newlield, N. J., July, 1894.
Perithecia scattered, subglobcse, 1 00-11 0/i diam., clothed with black, bristle-like hairs.
Sporules subglobose or subelliptical, hyaline, 3-3^,".
in the longer diameter.
Piacosphaeria Arctostaphyli E. & E. On dead twigs of Arctostaphylos Nevadensin, Mt.
Paddo, Wash., alt.
6,000-7,000 ft., July, 1886 (Suksdorf).
Stromata erunijient-superficial, pulvinate, l-t mm.
diam., flattened and mostly depressed iu the center, dotted with piinctiform ostiola, closely embraced by the epidermis, multilocular.
Sporules oblongcylindrical, hyaline, continuous, 5-6 x 2-22//.
Has the stroma of Dothidea producing only stylospores.
Fusicoccum Tilise E. & E. On dead limbs of Tilia Americayia, Naaman's Creek, Del., Aug. 1894 (A. Commons, No.
2,517).
Stromata scattered, buried, conic-ovate, 250-350," diam., onecelled, gray inside, raising the epidermis into acute pustules perforated with a round opening.
Sporules oblong-fusoid, hyaline, 2-nucleate, 7-10-2^ x 3//.
Fusicoccum ilicinum E. & E. On dead limbs of Ilex opaea, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
496).
Stromata cortical, convex, about 1 or li mm.
diam., multilocular, whitish inside, the tuberculiform apex pierced with a single pore, rupturing the epidermis and slightly raising it.
Sporules fusoid, hyaline, nucleate, 15-22 x 2 i -3//.
Cytisporella pinicola E. & E. On bark of limbs of Abies Enxjelniaiini, N. W. Colo., July, 1894 (I'rof C. S. Craudall, No.
6).
Stromata erurapent-superficial, verruciform, 1-1 i mm.
diam., easily deciduous.
Perithecia peripherical.
Sporules minute, elliptical, hyaline, 3 x lA/', borne on much branched basidia 15-20 x 2//.
The habit is that of Dothiorella, but the minute sporules are those of Cytisporella.
Cytispora caryigena E. & E. On dead limbs of Carya alba, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
513).
Stroma cortical, convex, l2-2 ram.
diam.
, slaty black, 4-6-celled, cells yellowish-white, subglobose, small.
Sporules allantoid, hyaliue 3^-4 2 x l-l//.
(Spermogania of Valsa caryigena, B.
& C. )?
Cytispora exasperans E & E. Oil dead limbs of Acer rubrnm, Newfield, N. J., and on Acer Pennsylvanieam, Nuttallburg, West Va. (Nuttall).
Stroma buried in the bark, orbicular, about 1 ram, diam., 4-6celled (at length one-celled), prolonged above into a stout, conical beak opening by a single round pore at the apex.
Sporules oblong or allantoid, hyaline, 5-7 xli,".
Cytispora Celtidis E. & E. On dead limbs of Celtis, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
314).
Stroma valsoid, flat, thin, li-2 mm.
diam., only peuetrating the surface of the bark, multilocular, gray inside, raising the bark into small pustules and finally rupturing it, cells resembling perithecia.
Sporules allantoid, 6-7 x 1-1 2//.. Cytispora plilyctsenoides E. & E. On dead limbs of Corylus Avellana, Newfield, N. J., June, 1894.
Stroraata cortical, conic-convex, 1-1 J mm.
diam., indistinctly multilocular, pale inside, with the enclosing layer darker, raising the epidermis into numerous small pustules which are soon ruptured, opening mostly through a single pore.
Sporules fusoid, hyaline, 2-nucleate, 6-9x2-24/', straight.
Basidia simple, attenuated and curved above, about 20 x Ij;/, resembling the sporules of Phlyctcena.
Cytispora Negundinis E. & E. On dead limbs of Negundo aceroides, Rockport, Kansas, April, 1894 (Bartholomew, No!
1,449).
Stroma cortical, conic-convex, 1-H mm.
diam., slaty black, multilocular, the cells ovate-globose, numerous (15-20 or more), all opening through a single pore in a central column which pierces the epidermis and raises it into little pustules.
Sporules allantoid, hyaline, slightly curved, 52-7 x 1 i-l 2//.
On branched basidia 20/' long.
This is different from C. macilenta Rob.
and Desm.
, as shown by a comparison of the specc.
From C. Pseiidoplatani Sacc.
, it differs in its longer sporules and branching liasidia.
Cytispora Halesiae E, & E. On dead limbs of Halesia tefraptera, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall).
Stromata convex-conical, sunk in the bark, orbicular, about 1 mm.
diam.
, white inside, unilocular, the inner surface of the cavity lined with simple, straight basidia about 15//.
long, bearing the oblongfusoid, hyaline, 2-uucleate, straight, 5-7x1-1?// sporules, which are expelled through a single orifice perforating the raised epidermis.
This probably is the sperraogouial stage of Diaporthe Salesice or D. tetraptera, both of which are found in company with it.
Sphaeropsis Coryli E. & E. On dead limbs of Corylus Avellana, Newfield, N. J., June, 1894.
Perithecia thickly scattered, globose, subcuticular, about 2 mm.
diam., raising the epidermis into small pustules which are finally ruptured at the apex with a round or elongated opening.
Sporules oblong-elliptical, or the longer ones slightly curved and subcylindrical, 15-20x8-10/-.. Sphaeropsis Asimiuse E. & E. On dead limbs of Asimina triloba, Nuttallburg, W. Va. , Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
370).
Perithecia scattered or subseriate, buried in the bark which is raised into little pustules over them and soon ruptured.
Perithecia small (4mm.
), thick-walled, with an obscurely papilliform ostiolura.
Sporules oblong-elliptical, brown, obtuse, 18-22x8-10/'.
Sphasropsis Neilliae E. & E. On Physoearpus opulifoUus, London, Canada, May, 1893 (J. Dearness).
Perithecia scattered or sometimes 2-3 confluent, small (200/'), covered by the blackened epidermis, semierumj)ent, with a black, shining papilliform ostiolum.
Sporules small, acutely elliptical, or ovate-elliptical, pale brown, 12-16x4-5//.
Sphaeropsis Physocarpi E. & E. On dead Plnjsocarpus opulifoUus, Nuttallburg, West Va;, May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, Nos.
482 and 486).
Perithecia scattered, * nini.
diam., buried in the inner bark, with their apices and papilliform ostiola erurapent, white inside (at first), sometimes, as in the pi'eceding species 2-3 confluent.
Sporules varying from short-elliptical 12-15x10/-, to oblongor obovate-elliptical 15-20x10".
Differs from the preceding in its huried perithecia and much larger spornles.
Sph3eropgis Ipomcea E. & E. Ou dead peduncles of Ipomcea pandurata, Nuttallbiirg, West Va., Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
249).
Perithecia scattered, ovate-globose, 250-300/x diam., the upper part prominent and closely covered by the shining black epidermis.
Sporules elliptical, brown, 18-23x10-13", on pedicels of about the same length as the sporules.
Coniothyrium infuseans E. & E. On dead stems of Valerimuf, edulit<, Eastern slope of Rabbit Ear Range, Colorado, July, 1894 (Prof. C. S. Craudall, No.
10).
Perithecia densely gregarious, blackening the stems, ovateglobose,, membranaceous, black, erumpent-superticial, 170-200//.
diam.
Sporules globoseelliptical, brown, 6-8," in the longer diam.
Haplosporella alpiaa E. & E. Cameron Pass, Colorado, July, 1894, 10,000 ft. alt.
(C. F. Baker, No.
236).
On dead stems of Sambucus vielanocarpa.
Stroma convexhemispherical, erumpentsuperficial, black, 300-400,'.
diam.
Perithecia (cells) buried in the stroma, 100-150,7 diam., their papilliform ostiola visible on the surface of the stroma.
Sporules globose, 5,", or elliptical, 6-7x5//, brown.
Apparently the pycnidial stage of some dothideaceous fungus (Anerswaldia)'^ Haplosporella Araliae E. & E. On dead limbs of Ar(dla spiiiosa, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (Nuttall, No.
375).
Stromata seriate-connate, erumpent through longitudinal cracks in the bark, and extending from 4-5 mm.
to 2 or more centimetres.
Perithecia ovate-globose, buried in the black, subcarbonaceou& stroma, 3-6 in each single stroma, about ;' mm.
diam.
Sporules elliptical, brown, 20-25x10-12//.
This may be the pycnidia of BotryospJueri<( fuliginosa (M. & N.).
Haplosporella Celtidis E. & E. On dead lind)s of Celtis.
West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
315).
Perithecia mostly in valsoid clusters of 3-10, small (200//), white inside, slightly sunk in the inner bark, their papilliform ostiola rupturing'' the epidermis.
Sporules elliptical, brown, continuous, 18-22x10-12,', on basidia of about the same length as the sporules.
Diplodia Kansensis E. & E. On weather-beaten, bleached bark of Juniperus Vhgbnava, Rockport, Ks., Dec. 1893 (E. Bartholomew, No.
1,292).
Perithecia scattered, subglobose, erumpent-superficial, i-l mm.
diam.
Sporules ovate-elliptical, uniseptate, constricted, the septum below the middle, brown, becoming nearly opake, 20-27 x 12-15//.
Differs from D. Juniper!
West, and D. Virginiana Cke., in its larger ovate sporules.
Diplodia caryigena E. & E. On dead limbs of Can/a alba, Canada (Dearness) and West Va. (Nuttall).
Perithecia subseriate, sunk in the inner bark, covered by the epidermis which is raised into pustules and ruptured, about i mm.
diam., black.
Sporules elliptical, brown, uniseptate, scarcely constricted, 15-20 X 8-10/'.
(Pycnidia of Valsa caryigena B.
& C.)?
Diplodia infuscans E. & E. On bark of dead limbs of Fraxinus Americana, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
459).
Perithecia ovate-globose, small, 110-150/-.
diam.
, thickly scattered, blackening both the outer and inner surface of the bark.
Ostiolum not conspicuous, obscurely papilliform.
Sporules oblong-elliptical, 12-15 X 8-10//, scarcely constricted.
In D. inquinans West, the sporules and perithecia are larger, and the bark is not blackened within.
Diplodia Cercidis E. & E. On dead limbs of Cercis Canadensis, Nuttallburg, West Va., Apr.
1894 (L. W. Nuttall No.
449).
Perithecia subseriate, globose, J-?
mm.
diam., slightly sunk in the inner bark and splitting the epidermis with short, longitudinal clefts.
Sporules elliptical, 20-23 x 10-15/', on stout basidia, uniseptate.
Botryodiplodia acerina E. & E. On dead limbs of Acer Pennsylvanicii.m, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (Nuttall, No.
319).
Perithecia erumpent in botryoidal clusters often seriately confluent for 1 or more cm., about 2 mm.
diam., white inside, flattish above, with a broad papilliform ostiolura.
Sporules elliptical, brown, uniseptate, 20-25 x 12-15,", on basidia of about the same length.
Ascoohyta veratrina E. & E. On dead leaves and petioles of Veratrum Galifornicum, Pullman, Wash., Nov. 1893 (Prof C. V. Piper, No.
145).
Perithecia scattered, sunk in the substance of the leaf with the apex and conic-papilliform ostiolum erumpent, about I mm.
diam.
Sporules cylindrical, obtuse, 3-4nucleate, becoming iiniseptate, hyaline, about 12x25-3//..
Differs from A. Veratri Cavarra (Fungi Langobardise, No.
98) in its larger, ostiolate perithecia, not on any spots and in its smaller, straight sporules.
Ascocliyta achlyicola E. & E. On leaves of Achhjs triphylla, Seattle, Wash., Aug. 1892 (Prof C. V. Piper, No.
114).
Spots suborbicular or irregular, 3-15 ram.
diam., with a dirty white center and a broad, shaded purple margin.
The white center is more or less deciduous.
Perithecia epiphyllous, innate-prominent, small (75;/), few on a spot.
Sporules elliptical, 2-nucleate, hyaline, 5-8 x 25-3//., soon becoming uniseptate.
Ascocliyta Asclepiadis E. & E. On leaves of Asdepias Cormdi, Pleasant Hill, Del., May, 1894 (Commons, No.
2,420).
Spots amphigenous, suborbicular, ^-1 mm.
diam., grayish, with darker zones and a shaded, darkbrown border.
Sporules oblong(or ovate-) elli[mcal, hyaline, 6-8 x 3/', becoming faintly uniseptate.
Perithecia epiphyllous, innate, black, pierced above, 100-110// diam.
Heudersonia stygia E. & E. On decorticated, bleached wood of a Cottonwood log, Rockport, Ks., Dec. 1893 (E. Bartholomew).
Perithecia erumpent-superficial, scattered, ovate-globose, 2 mm, diam., or hysteriiform, 1 ram.
or raore long, at first with a prorainent papilliforra ostiolum, l)ut soon broadly open above, the upper part finally disappearing, leaving the cup-shaped base filled with abundant sporules and then raore resembling acervuli than perithecia.
Sporules ovate-elliptical, subinequilateral, abruptly narrowed at the euds, 3-5-septate, but not constricted, the inner cells nearly opake, the small, terminal cells subhyaline, 12-15 x 6-8//..
The species is anomalous in the imperfectly developed perithecia, the upper part soon falling away and leaving the cupshaped base.
Hendersonia falcata E. & E. On bark of fir trees, Exploits, Newfoundland, Dec. 1893 (Rev.
A. C. Waghorne, No.
10).
Perithecia cespitose-erumpent, 6-10 together, united below in a thin stroma, broadly perforated and subcollapsed above.
Stromata small (1 mm.
), subconfluent and subseriately arranged.
Sporules falcate, more abruptly curved or bent above, yellowish-hyaline, granular, becoming 1-3-septate, subattenuated below, on pedicels shorter than the sporules, 20-22 x 5-7/'.
Differs from Hendersonia rostrata S. & E. in its stroraatic growth and broader, shorter sporules.
Stagonospora petiolorum E. & E. On dead petioles of Aralia spinosa, Nuttallburg, West Va. , Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
357).
Perithecia scattered, innate, small, slightly prominent and covered by the shining, blackened epidermis, 150-250,"diam., mostly-subelliptical.
Sporules oblong, hyaline, nucleate, becoming 1-or moreseptate, 12-20x3-5,'/.
Stagonospora Physocarpi E. & E. On dead stems and limbs of Physocarpas opnlifolius, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
485).
Perithecia scattered, depressedhemispherical, 200-250,'/.
diam., sunk in the bark, with the upper part prominent but covered by the epidermis which is pierced by the papilliform ostiolum, white inside.
Sporules linear, multiseptate, hyaline, 25-35 x 3-4,'/.
Stagonospora Liriodendri E. & E. On decorticated wood of Liriodendron Talipifera, Alcove, N. Y., June, 1893 (C. L. Spear, No., 304).
Perithecia superficial, evenly scattered or 2-4 subconfluent, obtusely conic-globose, about i mm.
diam.
Sporules cylindrical, hyaline, 8-10 x 2-22,-/, nucleate but not visibly septate, though a central nucleus causes them to appear uniseptate.
Basidia slender 25-35,'/.
long, profusely and subverticillately branched.
Camarosporium Celtidis E. & E. On dead limbs of Geltis oceidentalis, Rockport, Ks.
, March, 1894 (Bartholomew, No.
1,400).
Perithecia scattered or cespitose, ovate, A nim.
diam.
, ofteu seriate, covered b}^ the epidermis at first, with the short-cylindrical, obtuse, ostiola erumpeut.
Sporules oblong, or oblong-elliptical or even cylindrical, brown, mostly o-septate, 12-15 x 4-5,"., but some of them 5-6-septate, with one or two cells divided by a longitudinal septum, 15-20 X 5-7//..
There is also a Teichospora accompanying, tjut too scanty to admit of accurate description.
Septoria Echinocystis E. & E. On leaves of Echinocystis marah, Ukiah, Mendocino Co., Cala., May, 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No.
220).
Spots subangular, limited at first by the veinlets and greenish, becoming light brown with the margin darker, 3-5 mm.
diam.
Perithecia innate, globose, about 80,a diam., thin, imperfectly developed, brown.
Sporules linear, hyaline, nearly straight or subundulate, becoming faintly 1-2-septate, 25-50 x 25-3,".
Septoria solanicola E. & E. On leaves of Solanum lunheUifermn, Ukiah, Mendocino Co., Cala., May, 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No.
241).
Spots scattered or confluent, orbicular, 2-3 mm.
diam., pale brown with darker border.
Perithecia epiphyllous, numerous, pale brown, collapsing, 100-110," diam.
Sporules bacillary, hyaline, faintly nucleate, 20-30x11-2],".. Diflers from the other species on Solanacece in its shorter, continuous sporules.
Roumeguere in F. Gallici 722 has a Septoria labeled S. Solani, Roura., on Solanum nigrum, but the spec, is entirely sterile.
Septoria alnifoiia E. & E. On leaves of Alnus rubra, Seattle, Wash., Aug. 1893 (Prof C. V. Piper, No.
82).
Spots red-rusty brown, orbicular or irregular, mostly with a narrow, dark, raised bordering line, 2-5 mm.
diam., more obscure below.
Perithecia epiphyllous, innate-prominent, black, minute (80100,".
), not abundant.
Sporules linear, hyaline, with a row of nuclei, mostly curved to a semicircle.
35-55 x 3,".
Of the three described species on Almis, S. Alni Sacc.
has bacillary sporules, S. alnicola Cke.
has oblong sporules, and S. alnigena Sacc.
has no spots.
Septoria solitaris E. & E. On leaves of Rhododendron occidentale, Mill Valley, Cala.
, July, 1893 (W. C. Blasdale, 172).
Spots amphigenous, i-oun(i^»fhite with a purple boi'der, numerous, about 2 mm.
diam.
Perithecia mostly one in the center of each spot, globose, 120-150// diam., visible on both sides of the leaf.
S[)orules abundant, bacillary, hyaline, continuous, straight or subundulate or bent, obtuse, about 20 x 2//.
Septoria Rhododendrl Cke.
has the perithecia aggregated or circiuate and sporules 40;/.
long.
Septoria (Enanthis E. & E. On leaves of (Enanthe sarmentosa, Seattle, Wash., Aug. 1892 (Prof C. V. Piper, No.
50).
Spots scattered, small (1-3 mm.
), white, subangular, definite.
Perithecia few on a spot (3-6), small (75//.
), black (yellow-brown under the microscope), subastomous.
Sporules fusoidcylindrical, hyaline, nucleate, 20-35 x l2-2", ends subacute, slightly curved.
Septoria saccharina E. & E., var.
occidentalis.
On dead leaves of Acer glahrum, Fairhaven, Wash., Aug. 1892 (Prof C. V. Piper, No.
57).
Differs from the type in having the small, white spots, on which the perithecia are seated, not so evenly distributed over the leaf, but collected on rusty brown, yellow-margined, subindefiuite spots 3-4 mm.
diam.
Septoria circinata E. & E. On leaves of Acer circinatuni, Everson, Wash., Aug. 1892 (C. V. Piper).
Spots orl)icular, scattered, 2-3 mm.
diam., pale yellowish-white, definite but without any distinct border.
Perithecia amphigenous, few (4-10), subcircinately arranged around the whitish center of the spots, small, 75// diam.
Sporules abundant, filiform, variously curved and bent, 30-60x1]//., nucleate, but not septate.
Seems quite distinct from the other species on maple.
Septoria Tecomae E. & E. On leaves of Tecoma radicans, Nuttallburg, West Va., Aug. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
580).
Spots light browu (wood color), irregular in shape, small, I2-2 mm.
, inconspicuous and indistinctly margined.
Perithecia immersed, small (65-70;/), barely visible with a lens.
Sporules 40-50 x 22§//, not strongly curved, nucleate, hyaline.
Septoria Ludoviciana E. & E. On leaves of Laduca Ludoviciana, Fort Collins, Colo., June, 1894 (C. F. Baker, No.
257).
Spots angular, limited by the veinlets, wood-brown, 2-5 mm.
diam., often confluent.
Perithecia punctiform, minute, black, epiphyllous, 75-80//.
diam., apex erumpent.
Sporules cylindrical, more or less curved, obtuse, not septate, 15-25 x 2//.
Differs from S. unicolor Winter, in its lighter colored, angular spots, rather larger perithecia and thicker sporules; differs also in several respects from S. Laduca: Pass, and S. laducicola E. & M. Septoria Trautvetterise E. & E. On Trantvetterla palmata, Nuttallburg, West Va. , July, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
564).
Spots irregular, subangular, partly limited by the veinlets of the leaf, often elongated and acute at one end, brownishblack, with an irregularly shaped white center which is well defined, angular, 3-5 mm.
in the longer diam.
Perithecia epiphyllous but also visible below, small (65-75,".
), scattered, dark.
Sporules abundant, nearly straight or slightly curved, continuous, 22-30 x 2//.
Differs from S. A)iemonis Desm.
in its broad, dark margined, white centered spots and rather longer aud thicker sporules.
Septoria Polymniae E. & E. On leaves of Folymnia Uveclalla, Nuttallburg, West Va., July, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
543).
Spots scattered, angular, limited by the veinlets, 2-4 mm.
diam., dirty green.
Perithecia epiphyllous, minute, 75//.
diam.
, scattered, innate, inconspicuous.
Sporules filiform, continuous, 35-50 x 1U/'.. Septoria hyalina E. & E. On Viola lanceolata, Massachusetts (Miss Clarke); on V. primulafolia, West Va. (Nuttall), and on V. hlanda, Michigan (Hicks).
Spots minute (^-1 mm.
), white, with a dark purple-shaded border.
Perithecia punctiform, black, epiphyllous, subglobose, 65-75/'.
diam., not abundant.
Sporules filiform, nearly straight, or slightly curved.
hyaliue, uucleate, not visibly septate, 20-40 (mostly 25-35) x 1*S. Violce West, has yellowish-brown perithecia on pale zonate spots with a reddishbrown border.
Septoria micropuncta E. & E. On leaves of Osmorrhiza, Washington, D. C. (1891)?
(E. A. Southworth).
Spots small (I-I2 mm.
), subangular, white, with a broad, dark colored border.
Sporiiles cylindrical, slightly curved, not septate or visibly nucleate, 18-27 x li-l^a.
This is very different from S. Osmorrhizce Pk.
which has the spots larger, perithecia also larger, subdiscoid and amber colored, and sporules 35-55 x 2-2J//., uniseptate.
Septoria Megarrhizae E. & E. On leaves of Megarrhiza Oregana Benton, Wash., July 14, 1892 (C. V. Piper, No.
112, partly).
Spots orbicular, dirty white, with a broad, dark colored border, 3-5 mm.
diam.
Perithecia epiphyllous, light colored, innate-subprominent, subastomous, thin, SO-llO/Jt diam.
Sporules filiform, nearly straight, hyaline, faintly nucleolate, 40-60x22-3,'/.. Phleospora Megarrhizae E. & E. Same host and collector as Septoria Megarrhizce.
Spots greenish at first, the central portion (1-3 mm.
diam. )
becoming dirty white with a faint, dark purple margin.
Perithecia epiphyllous, subdiscoid, thin, perforated above, light colored, becoming darker, 150// diam.
Sporules oblong, obtuse, 1-3-septate, hyaline, sometimes narrowed in the middle, 13-27 x 6-8//.
Distinguished from Septoria Megarrhizoe,, even without microscopical examination by its much smaller subangular white spots.
Phlyctaena IpomoBa E. & E. On calyx lobes of Ipomcea pandurata, Nuttallburg, West Va., Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
250).
Perithecia scattered, subcuticular, 75-80// diam., covered by the blackened, slightly raised epidermis.
Sporules linear, hyaline, curved above, 15-20 x 11//.
Hysteromyxa corticola E. •& E. On inner surface of old Cottonwood bark, Rockport, Ks., Dec. 1893 (E. Bartholomew, No.
1,306).
25 Perithecia erumpent superficial, gregarious, membranaceous, yellowish-brown and pustuliform when fresh, collapsing to concave, nearly flat when dry, and then darker colored, the disk or center with a faint, flesh-colored tint, 4-3 mra.
diam.
Sporules globose, 6—8,'jdiam., yellowish, with a tinge of rose color.
Difi'ers from H. effugietis S. & E. in its different habitat and the darker color of the perithecia.
Dothichiza Cassandrae E. & E. On dead limbs of Cassandra ealyeulata, Ann Arbor, Mich., May, 1894 (L. N. Johnson, No.
1,591)'.
Perithecia erumpent, surrounded by the ruptured epidermis, ovateglobose and closed at first, i mm.
diam., then irregularly ruptured and subcupulate, '.
mm.
diam.
Sporules fusoid, hyaline, continuous, straight, acute, 10-14 x2-2i'/.
Apparently the spermogonia stage of Cenangium Cassandrce Pk.
Gloeosporium tremuloides E. & E. On leaves of Populus tremuloides, Racine, Wis., Sept. 1893 (Dr. J. J. Davis).
Spots amphigenous, suborbicular, scattered or subcoufluent, definite, dark brown, 2-4 mm.
diam.
Acervuli innate, globose or oblong, 75-85".
diam.
, dark, erumpent on both sides of the leaf, often C'jvered above by the loosened, silvery epidermis.
Conidia elliptical, 10-13x52—6 2;/., continuous.
G. Treiniike, G. Sihiricum, and G. Populi-albce, have fusoid or cylindrical conidia ; G. )icevioides Romell & Sacc.
Grev.
21, p. 68, has ovate-oblong conidia, 30-85x10-12//, so that this seems sufficiently distinct from all the other species on poplar leaves.
Gloeosporium officinale E. & E. On leaves of Sassafras officinale, Smyrna, Del., June, 1894 (Commons, No.
2,438).
Spots irregular in shape, 5-I cm.
diam., dirty whitish in the center, with the border nearly black.
Acervuli minute, numerous, innate, erumpent on both sides of the leaf, l)ut more abundant below, the expelled spores forming little subglobose, pale orange colored suhconfluent heaps.
Spores oblong or clavate-oblong or ovate, 8-15 X 4-5//.
This is quite distinct from Gl.
Sassafras (Cke), ( Gl.
affiue E. & K.), in its much larger spores and the different character of tlie spots.
If, as seems probable, Phyllosticta affinis E. & K. in Am.
Nat., Nov. 1883, is the same as Ph.
Sassafras Cke.
in Grev., Sept. 1883, the specific name "Sassafras" will have precedence, and "affine," already preoccupied by Saccardo, will be dropped, and Gl.
affine E. & K. will become Gl.
Sassafras (Cke.
), the fungus being a Gloeosporium and not a Phyllosticta.
Gloeospormm Sanguinariae E. & E. On leaves of Sanguinaria Canadensis, Nuttallburg, West Va., July, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
555).
Spots yellow, oblong or irregular, 3-5 mm.
diam., situated near tiie apex of the leaf which is more or less uniformly blackened.
Acervuli epiphyllous, numerous, innate, yellow and inconspicuous.
Conidia oblong, hyaline, continuous, mostly a little curved, 8-15 x 3}-5i//.
Gloeosporium alboferrugineum E. & E. On leaves of Acer saccharinum, Peoria, Ills., July, 1894 (F. E. McDonald).
Spots numerous, small, subangular, partly limited by the veinlets.
1-2 mm.
diam., deep reddish-brown, whitening out.
Acervuli 100150// diam., hypophyllous, becoming dark.
Conidia oblong, hyaline, continuous, 12-14x3-3j,'/.
Differs from G. saccharinum E. & E. in habit and in its conidia twice as long as in that species.
GloBOsporium Trillii E. & E. On leaves of Trillium sessile, Berkeley, Cala., April 2, 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No.
212).
Spots amphigenous, scattered, small (1-2 mm.
), dirty white, leaf becoming yellowish around them, finally subconfluent causing the leaf to wither and die.
Acervuli epiphyllous, rather large, yellowish, erumpeut, often only one in the center of the spot.
Conidia oblong-cylindrical, slightly curved, 10-15 (mostly 10-12) x 2^-3^//.. Gloeosporium serotinum E. & E. On leaves of Prunus serotina, Smyrna, Del., June, 1894 (A. Commons, No.
2,439).
Spots suborbicular, 3-10 mm.
diam., deep brick-red, definite, soon confluent covering the entire leaf which is then of a deep redbrick color.
Acervuli amphigenous, numerous, flesh color.
Conidia oblong, straight, obtuse, 12-15x4-5//.
Differs from G. pruaicolum E. & E. (J. M.
III., p. 129) principally in the much larger conidia.
Myxosporium seriatum E. «fe E. On maple bark, Nuttallburg, West Va., June, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
523).
Nuclei pallid, orbicular, about 1 mm.
diam., seated on the surface of the inner bark ; surrounded by a thin layer of smoky colored radiating hyphse from the inner extremities of which the botuliforra or oblong, 6-8x2-2i'/., hyaline conidia are produced.
The nuclei are seriately arranged, and the pale flesh-colored, flattish cirrhi are erumpent through narrow, longitudinal cracks in the bark.
Myxosporium platanicclum E. & E. On dead limbs of Platanus, Nuttallburg, West Va., April, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, 467).
Acervuli subcutaneous, vesiculoid, pale, 1 mm.
diam., raising the ruptured epidermis into pustules but not erumpent.
Sporules oval or oblong-ovate, hyaline, nucleate at first, 10-12 x 5--6,", on stout basidia.
CoUetotrichum Ehexice E. & E. On leaves of Rhexia Virginica, Kimensi, Del., Aug. 25, 1894 (Commons, No.
2,534).
Spots orbicular, small (1-2 mm.
), dirty white with a reddishpurple border.
Acervuli mostly epiphyllous, sph^eriteform, erumpent, 250-350,'/ diam., surrounded or clothed with black bristle-like hairs, 60-70x3-31,".. Sporules oblong, obtuse, binucleate, about 12x4,", and very short basidia.
Cylindrosporium Crataegi E. & E. On leaves of CraUegus, Nuttallbui-g, West Va.. July, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
571).
Leaves more or less mottled with rusty red, at length uniformly of this .same color.
Acervuli innate, erumpent on both sides, and whitening the surface of the leaf with abundantly discharged conidia, which are 75-100 x 3-3j,", nearly straight, or more or less undulate and curved, nucleate, and faintly 3-5-septate.
Cylindrosporium ulmicolum E. & E. On leaves of Ulmus alata Starkville, Miss., Nov. 1893 (Prof S. M. Tracy).
Acervuli numerous, small, pale, buried in yellowish, faded areas of the leaf, visible from above, but erumpent below.
Conidia cylindrical, moderately curved, slightly narrowed toward the ends, hyaline, multinucleate, 45-65 x 4//, expelled in small white tufts, on the lower side of the leaf Melanconium stenosporum E. & E. On bark of Carya, Ohio (Morgan, No.
1,002).
Stroma subcuticular, sunk in the surface of the inner bark, orbicular, 1^-2 mm.
diam., convex, white inside, but covered by a layer of the narrow, brown, oblong, slightly curved, 13-15 x 3-4;/,.
Conidia, which are erumpent in black, hemispherical, finally flattened heaps or masses 1-2 mm.
diam.
Melanconium acerinum E. & E. On dead limbs of Acer maerophyUmn, Pasadena, Gala.
(Prof. A. J. McClatchie).
Acervuli buried in the bark, convex, orbicular, 1-1 5 mm.
diam., raising and rupturing the epidermis.
Conidia ovate, nearly opake, 20 X 15//.
Marsonia Wyethise E. & E. On leaves of Wyetkia glabra, Santa Rosa, Cala.
, May, 1894 (W. C. Blasdale).
Acervuli amphigenous, but mostly hypophyllous, small (65-75,a), orbicular, erumpent, nearly white at first, becoming flesh color, crowded in small, angular patches, mostly limited by the veinlets of the leaf, which in these places soon becomes brown, the brown color finally spreading over a great part of, or over the entire leaf Conidia oblong-ovate, hyaline, uniseptate, scarcely constricted, 18-27 x 10-13//.
Marsonia Fraserse E. & E. On leaves of Frasera thyrsiflora Latah Co., Idaho, July, 1892 (C. V. Piper, No.
133).
Spots orbicular, yellowish-brown, ^i— 1 cm.
or more diam., with a broad, dark colored border.
Acervuli scattered irregularly on the spots, erumpent above, 150-200;/ diam., pale.
Conidia oblongcylindrical, hyaline, uniseptate and more or less constricted at the septum, 12-20 x 5-6/', ends obtuse.
Marsonia Veratri E. & E. On leaves of Veratrum Californicum, Pullman, Washington, Aug. 1893 (C. V. Piper, No.
158).
Spots amphigenous, small (2-3 mm.
), whitish, with a broad, dullpurple border, which is often elongated in the direction of the veins of the leaf for 2-3 cm., with the ends acute, finally more or less confluent, the entire leaf becoming brown and dead.
Acervuli small, occupying the centre of the spots, or irregularlj'^ scattered over them.
Conidia clavate-cylindrical, curved, upper end subtruncate, lower end attenuated and subacute, uniseptate, hyaline, 18-22 x 3-35,"..
This is not to be confounded with Cylindrospormm veratrinnm Sacc.
& Winter, or with Ascochyta veratrina E. & E. Pestalozzia zonata E. & E. On decaying fruit of Cydonia, Newfield, N. J. , Sept. 1890.
Acervuli subepidermal, punctiform, black, raising the cuticle into small pustules, scattered on concentrically zoned, decaying spots on the fruit.
Conidia fusoid, 4-septate, slightly constricted at the septa, the two end cells conical and hyaline, the apical one crowned with a spreading crest of three hyaline bristles 15-25// long, the two cells next below quite dark, so as to obscure the septum between them, the cell next below these nearly hyaline.
Pedicels very short.
Pestalozzia Polygoni E. & E. On living leaves of Polygonum Virginianum Stanton, Del., Aug. 1894 (Commons, No.
2,560).
Spots dull brick-red, very irregular in shape and size, mostly elongated 2-10 x 1-4 mm., definite, but without any colored border.
Acervuli punctiform, black, suberumpent, epiphyllous, scattered.
Conidia cylindrical or fusoid-cylindrical, pale, 3-4-septate and more or less constricted at the septa (which are often indistinct, 18-22 x 4//, end cells rounded, lower one with a short, slender pedicel, upper one bearing a crest of three, spreading bristles 10-15//.
long.
Pestalozzia toxica E. & E. On leaves of Rhus Toxicodendron, Nuttallburg, West Va., Aug. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
567, partly).
Spots and perithecia as in Phyllosfida rhoicola E. & E. Sporules clavate-oblong, 4-septate, 12-15 x 4-5//, 3 intermediate cells pale brown, end cells short, conical, hyaline, the upper cell with a crest of 3, short, spreading hyaline bristles 6-7/' long.
Distance between the two extreme cells 12//.
Pedicels shorter than the spores.
Coryneum oupulatum E. & E. On dead limbs of Tsuga Canadensis, Nuttallburg, West Va., Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
272).
1894.]
NAI'lHAI, SCIKNCES OK PH I LADEI.PHIA.
'^75 Eriimpent superficial.
Acervuli tuberculiform, black, 1-1 2 mm.
diam., hollowed out so as to be cup-shaped above.
Conidia clavate, sessile, 6-9septate, brown, 60-80 x 12-15//.
Coryneum abietinum E. & E. On bark of fir trees.
Exploits, Newfoundland, May, 1894 (Rev.
A. C. Waghorn, No.
35).
Acervuli erumpent, flat, ])ro\vnish-black, IJ-S mm.
across, surrounded by the upturned epidermis.
Conidia pale brown, fusoidobloug, 3-4-septate, about 20 x 10//, on pedicels of about the same length.
* * * * * HYPHOMYCETES.
Bctrytis torta E. & E. On dead leaves of Carex Fraseri, Nuttallbiirg, West Va. , Dec. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
257).
Hyphse simple, sparingly branched, twisted above as in B. streptothrlx or in Streptothrix atra B.
& C, brown, 80-100 x 3-4//, forming numerous small brownish-black tufts, efl^used or gregarious, on both sides of the leaf.
Conidia elliptical, brown, 5-6J x 3-32/^..
Differs from B. streptothrix (C. & E.) in its much smaller conidia and more dwarfish growth.
Ovularia Vancouverise E. & E. On leaves of Vancouveria hexandr a, Caza-dero, Gala,., May, 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No.
213).
Spots amphigenous, angular, limited by the veinlets, 1-2 mm.
diam., dark brown above, paler below.
Hyphse hypophyllous, fasciculate, simple, 30-35x3//, appearing like a white, pruinose coating.
Conidia varying from acutely elliptical, to oblong, and from 1020x4-6//.. Not to be confounded with 0.
Berheridis, Cke.
Ramularia Castilleiae E. & E. On leaves of Castilleia miniata, Mts.
of Skamania Co., Wash., Aug. 10, 1886 (W. N. Suksdorf, No.
288).
On subferruginous, indefinite spots, 2-3 mm.
diam.
Hyphae hyaline, simple, mostly thickened above, 15-25 x 3-4//, arising from a tubercular base from which they project on all sides, forming light flesh colored, sphperiseform tufts and bearing at their tips the narrowelliptical, oblong, or cylindrical, hyaline, continuous or uniseptate, 15-25 x 3-4/A conidia.
The Raniularia occupies the central part of the spots and is surrounded by subprominent, black, small, immature perithecia with which it appears to be generically connected.
Ramularia Psoraleae E. & E. On leaves of Psoralea macrostaehya, Ukiah, Mendocino Co., Gala., May, 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No.
221).
Spots small, round, pale rusty brown, 1-2 mm.
diam.
Hyphse fasciculate, simple or sparingly branched above, hyaline, becoming brownish, continuous or faintly 1-8-septate, subgeniculate above.
Conidia fusoid, hyaline, uniseptate and often slightly constricted, rather abruptly narrowed at the ends, 12-30 x o-oJ//.
Ramularia contexta E. & E. On living leaves of Menisperimim Canadense, Ann Arbor, Mich., Aug. 1885 (Prof. V. M. Spalding).
Hyph^e slender, hyaline, interwoven, so as to form a thin subseparable, web-like, layer, subangular in outline, 1-2 ram.
across, dirty white at first, becoming whiter and thicker.
Fertile hyphse erect, 15-25 X 2-2J;/, continuous, mostly simple.
Conidia clavate-fusoid, hyaline, continuous at first, becoming 1-septate, 8—15 x 2-3,".
Has something the aspect of Erineum.
Helicoma monilipes Ell.
& Johnson.
On oak bark, Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 1893 (L. N. Johnson, No.
666).
Ciespitose, in minute, punctiforra, brown tufts, about ,\ mm.
diam., appearing under the lens like minute flattened perithecia of about the same color as the bark.
Creeping hyphre nearly obsolete ; fertile hyphjie cespitose, erect, nearly hyaline, irregularly or subdichotomously branched above, closely septate and constricted at the septa so as to appear submoniliform, 40-50 x 3-4,".
Conidia terminal, or becoming lateral by the prolongation of the hyphie, pale brown, closely and permanently involute, forming a coil 12-15," diam., the cylinder or thread which forms the coil being 3-4," thick and coiled about IJ times.
Chastopsis roseola E. & E. On oak bark, Ann Arbor, Mich., March, 1894 (L. N. Johnson, No.
156).
Mycelium inconspicuous or none.
Fertile hyphjje simple, erect, straight, septate, subulate, paler and attenuated above, 200—250," long, browa.
Brauches issuing from tlie middle portion of the hyphffi, spreading, simple or 2-o-parted, hyaline at first, becoming brown, 15-30 x 22//, faintly septate, bearing at their tips the cylindrical, hyaline, straight; obtuse, 3-4-nucleate, 8-10 x l2-2;/.
conidia.
The effused hyph?e appear like a thin, pale rose-colored pubescence on the bark.
Closely allied to C. stachyobola Sacc, but the color is different, the branches often divided and the hyphse not perceptibly swollen at the base.
Stachylidium carioinum E. & E. On dead leaves of Carex Fraseri, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
335).
Hyphse fasciculate, brown, septate, 600-700 x Si/s simple or occasionally forked above, towards the top, with short-cylindrical, hyaline branches opposite or in whorls of thi-ee, beai-ing at their tips the elliptical, hyaline, 4-5 x 12-2// conidia, collected into a globose head 10-12// diam.
Coniosporium microsporum E. & E., n. sp.
On dead herbaceous stems (Senecio triangularis), Medicine Bow Kange, Colo., July, 1894 (Prof C. S. Crandall, No.
23).
Acervuli at first covered by the thin epidermis, soon erurapent, 13 mm.
diam., black, consisting of a mass of minute (3//), globose, olivebrown, conidia.
Torula (Tracliytora) sporodesmoides E. & E. On bark of dead limbs, Pasadena, Cala.
, Jan. 1894 (Prof A. J. McClatchie, No.
622).
Pulvinate or subeffused, pulvinuli, hemispherical, sooty black, if mm.
diam.
Creeping mycelium scanty, hyaline at first, sending up short, fertile branches, from which the concatenate conidia are formed by constriction.
Conidia elliptical, 8-10 x 5-6/-, nniseptate but not constricted, yellowish-brown at first, becoming nearly opake and distinctly roughened.
Often where 2 or more threads lie in contact, the cells of the different threads become laterally connate, forming irregularly shaped aggregations of conidia resembling Sporodesmiiim.
This differs from T. dimidiata Penz.
in the nniseptate, rough conidia.
Fusicladium Staticis E. & E. On living leaves of Sfatice Limonmrn, dwe May, N, J., Sept. 1894 (Commons, No.
2,565).
Spots orbicular, 2-5 mm.
diam., purplish at first, then rubigiuou& with a purplish border, becoming paler in the center and finally subdeciduous.
Hyphse epiphyllous, fiiseiculate, 40-60x4;/, brown, septate, subgeniculate above.
Conidia oblong with the ends obtusely pointed, subolivaceous, 1(exceptionally 2-) septate, 10-16x3-4//.
The tufts of hyphse are crowded in the central part of the spots.
Fusicladium Aplectri E. & E. On leaves of Aplectrnm hyemrile, Naaman's Creek, Del., Apr.
1894 (Commons, No.
2,408).
Spots irregular, whitish, with a shaded, purple border, 1 (-m. diam.
Hyph;e fasciculate, olivaceous, simple, 2-3-septate, 65-75 x 5-6", mostly twisted or abruptly bent at the tips, olive-brown.
Conidia terminal, elliptical, greenish, granular, continuous at first, becoming 1-septate, 12-15x6-7//.
Cladosporium aterrimum E. & E. On rotten wood, Rockport, Ks., Nov. 1893 (Bartholomew, No.
1,256).
At first densely tufted, tufts soon effused, forming an olive-black, velvety stratum 1 or more cm.
in extent.
Fertile hyph?e slender, sparingly septate, 100-150x22/', nearly straight, simple.
Conidia terminal, at first elliptical, 3-5//.
long and continuous, then oblongcylindrical, uniseptate, 5-7x2^//, ends obtuse.
Probably the subiculum of some Pyrenomycete.
C. lignatile Schw.
is said to have the hyphse very short ( "brevissimis" ).
Cercospora (Cercosporella) albomaculans E. & E. On leaves of Brasslca eampestris, Berkeley, Cala., Feb. 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No.
201).
Spots suborbicular, white with a narrow, darker margin, ^.-1 cm.
diam.
Hyphre amphigenous, tufted, short, 8-12x2;/, hyaline, continuous.
Conidia cylindrical, hyaline, straight or slightly curved, of about equal thickness throughout, 40-65 x2-2i/', becoming faintly 3-septate.
The tufts are very minute.
Distinguished from the other species on Cruciferce by its large white spots and cylindrical conidia which resemble the sporules of Septoria.
1894.]
XAT(n?AI.
SCIENCES OK PHILADEJ^PIIIA.
379 Cercospora (Cercosporella) Fraserae E. it E. Ou leaves of Frasera speciosa, mountains west of Bear Valley.
Colo., July, 1894 (Prof. C. S. Craudall, No.
65).
Spots lar^e (A-l cm.
), pale brown with a narrow, black border.
Hyphse in scattered tufts, appearing under the lens like minute, pale white granules, continuous, hyaline, 15-20x3//.
Conidia gradually attenuated above, hyaline, faintly 1-4-septate, 80-110 x 3-3^,".
The general appearance is about the same as that of Marsonia Frasercn E. & E. , but this is quite a diffei'cnt thing.
Cercospora Borreriea E. & E. On leaves of Borreria micrcmtha, Biloxi, Miss., July, 1893 (Prof. S. M. Tracy).
Hypophyllous.
Tufts effused, forming a thin, olivaceous coating.
Hypha?
slender, undulate or crisped and geniculate, 100-120x3Sip., brown, nucleate and indistinctly and sparingly septate.
Conidia slender lanceolate, hyaline, 3-5-septate, 35—45 x 3—35//.
Cercospora ribicola E. & E. Ou leaves of Ribes sanguineum, Seattle, Wash., Aug. 1893 (C. V. Piper, No.
81).
Spots numerous, subangular and partly limited by the veinlets, definite but without any distinct border, redrusty brown, 2-4 mm.
diam.
Tufts mostly epiphyllous, sphseriseform, not eifused, appearing like small, clustered, superficial perithecia.
Hypha?
densely fasciculate, pale brown, continuous, simple 25-35 x 35-4//.
Conidia lanceolate, hyaline, nucleate and 1-3-septate, 35-80 x 3-4//.
Quite different from C. marginalis Thum.
Well characterized by its red-brown spots and sphseriseform tufls of hyphse.
Cercospora Cirsii E. & E. On Cnicus remotifolius , Skamania Co., Wash., Aug. 1886 (W. N. Suksdorf, No.
291).
Spots dark brown, paler below, suborbicular, 3-5 mm.
diam.
or by confluence irregular and larger, often marginal, definite.
Hyphte epiphyllous, tufted, the small black tufts thickly covering the spots, short, simple, pale brown, nearly entire, 15-30x3^-4-.
Conidia slender, hyaline, 4-6-septate, 50-80 x 3i//.
Cercospora Baccharidis E. & E. On Baceharis Douglasii, Berkeley, Cala., June, 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No.
254).
Tufts effused, at lii-st ou irregular areas of the green leaf, partly bounded by the veinlets, the part of the leaf occupied soon becoming brown and dead.
Hyphoe densely cespitose, simple, hyaline, mostly continuous, 25-40 x 5//.
Couidia cylindrical, hyaline, obtuse at the ends, l-3-3eptate, often constricted at the septa.
The tufts of hyphse are of a pale rose color, nearly white and are found on both sides of the leaf Cercospora melanochasta E. & E. On leaves of Celastrus scandens, Louisville, Kansas, Oct. 1893 (E. Bartholomew, No.
1,210).
Spots amphigenous, slaty black, with the center whitish and the margin shading off into rusty brown, suborbicular, ^-1 cm.
diam.
Hyphne dark brown, septate, subundulate above, 40-60x3^-4//, forming dense sphseriseform, tobacco-brown tufts on the whitish center of the spots on both sides of the leaf.
Conidia clavatecylindrical, brown, 3-5-8eptate, 40-70 x 4-5//.
The dark part of the spots, especially below is covered with numerous, black, sterile perithecia.
Cercospora columnare E. & E. On dried up leaves of Phaseolus (cult.
), Newfield, N. J., Sept. 1894.
Am|)higeuous but mostly hypophyllous.
Hyphse erect, fasciculate, forming a compact bundle or tuft like Isariopsis, 150-230 x 4//, brown, sparingly septate.
Conidia oblong-cylindrical, 1-5-septate, not constricted, brownish, mostly a little curved, 40-60 x 5-6//.
C. Phaseoloruiii Cke.
is said to have the hyphge short (" abbreviatis " ) which can hardly apply to this.
Cercospora (Enotherse E. & E. On leaves of GEnothera hiemm, Nuttallburg, West Va. , Oct. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
599).
Spots irregular, mostly elongated, grayish-brown, subangular, 35 x 2-3 mm.
, subconfluent.
HyphtTe amphigenous, subhyaline, continuous or faintly 1-2-septate, 15-20 x 3/-, in minute scattered tufts, few in a tuft, spreading, subundulate.
Conidia linear or only slightly attenuated above, smoky-hyaline, nucleate and faintly 3-5or more-septate, 25-80 x 2-2J/'., straight or only slightly curved.
Cercospora Merrowi E. & E. On Isopynmi hiteniatum, Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 1893 (Harriet L. Merrow).
Hypophyllous, on dead blackened parts of the leaves.
Hyphte loosely tufted, subeffused, simple, clavate, continuous, 15—30 x 4", yellowish to the naked eye, nearly hyaline under the microscope.
Conidia, 1-3septate, hyaline, 15-60 x 4—6;j.
The shorter ones are cylindrical and mostly 1-septate, and resemble the conidia of Ramularia Actaxi', but the longer ones are narrowed above and 3(or more) ?
septate.
Cercospora Briareus E. & E. On leaves of Acerates viridifiora, near Elkton, Md., Aug. 1894 (Commons, No.
2,537).
Spots amphigenous, dull livid-purple, small, subelongated, 1-3 x 1 mm., subindefinite or partly limited by the veinlets.
Hyphae amphigenous, loosely tufted, spreading, subundulate, simple, equal, olive-brown, continuous or 1-3-septate, obtuse, 35-45 x 5-6;/.
Conidia slender, 40-80 x 32-4^//., 6-8-septate, nearly straight, slightly brownish.
The spots, especially on the under side of the leaf are not perceptible; the hyphiB spreading over green areas of the leaf enclosed by the veinlets.
Heterosporium eaiilicolum E. & E. On dead stems of Rumex occidentalis, North Park, Colo., July, 1894 (Prof. C. S. Crandall, No.
72).
Tufts effused.
Hypha?
cespitose, stout, olive-brown (under the microscope), septate, torulose, subgeniculate above, 80-110x4-5//.
Conidia elliptical or oblong, pale yellowishbrown, 1-3-septate, 1226 (mostly about 15) x 7-1 Ov, minutely echinulate-roughened.
Appears like a coarse, black pubescence on the stems.
Heterosporium sphseriseforme E. & E. On dead stems of Eriogomm, Fort Collins, Colo. (C. F. Baker, No.
270).
Hypha?
as in H. caulicolum E. & E. but not as rigid and collected in dense, scattered, olivaceous, sphserioeform, tufts i-l mm.
diain., resembling a Fuccinia or Sphceria.
Conidia elliptical or oblong, 1_4.
f mostly 1-2) septate, 12-30 x 8-12//, minutely echinulateroughened, pale yellow-brown.
Heterosporium Eucalypti E. & E. On dead leaves of Eucalyptus, California, Nov. 1893 (A. J. McClatchie, No.
542).
Hypophyllous, forming small (1—2 mm.
), olive-black, orbicular patches scattered over the lower side of the leaf.
Hyphiv?
subfasciculate-etfused, pale yellowishbrowu, coutinuous or sparingly septate, 70-80 X 4—5:j., geniculate-subimdulate, slightly swollen at the tips.
Conidia oblong-elliptical, 1-2-septate, pale yellowish, echiuulate, 1527 X 10-12//.
Heterosporium oladosporioides E. & E. On brown paper exposed by the roadside, Ann Arbor, Mich., May, 1894 (L. N. Johnson, No.
1,599).
Maculiform.
Hypha; erect, subfasciculate, brown, 90-110x45 ', septate, subundulate or subnodulose above.
Conidia terminal, hyaline and continuous at first, then pale brown and minutely echiuulate, 1-2-septate, 10-16 x 5-7// not constricted.
The hyphaj form small black scattered patches about 2 mm.
diam.
Heterosporium Triliii E. & E. On leaves (partly dead) of Trillium ovatum, Latah Co., Idaho, July, 1893 (C. V. Piper, No.
128).
Spots at first suborbicular, gray with a whitish margin, soon confluent, overrunning and killing the leaves, which then become rusty brown.
Hyphty fasciculate, short, 30-50 x 5-6//, variously toothed and shouldered above and more or less crooked, sparingly septate.
Conidia oblong-cylindrical, 12-30 x 5-8//, 1-3-septate, minutely echiuulate, yellow-brown.
Maorosporium hybridum E. & E. On bark of decaying Sambucus glauca, Pullman, Wash., Oct. 1893 (C. V. Pipe.r, No.
151).
Forming black, subelongated patches or irregularly scattered.
Hyphte cespitose, olive-brown, coarse, 100-110 x 6-7/', geniculate and subtorulose above, finally closely septate.
Conidia variable; at first oblong-elliptical and mostly uniseptate, 8-15 x 5-7//, pale yellowishbrown, then oblong, 2-3-septate and constricted, granular, 12-25 X 8-12//.
Other conidia are globose, 12—15;/, sarcinuliforra, with two septa crossing each other at right angles, others again broad-clavate, 5— 9-septate and muriforra, 50-70 x 12-15//.
The members of this genus are so variable that we have ventured to describe onl}'^ forms with marked and recognizable characters.
Maorosporium iridicolum E. & E. On leaves of Iris Missouriensis, Moscow, Idaho, May, 1894 ( Prof L. F. Henderson, No.
2,640).
Hyphaj short, tufted, obovate-obloug, contiauous, 12-15 x 5-6//, pale yellowish.
Conidia clavate, 5-10-septate and muriform, 40120 X 20-25//, including the stout, cylindrical, persistent stipe.
It is possible that what we have taken for hyphge are tufts of young conidia ; if so, the conidia ai"e sessile.
This is quite distinct from 3Iarrosporium Iridis C. & E. The tufts are at first scattered and distinct but finally confluent, forfiiiug pulverulent black patches consisting entirely of the free conidia.
Macrosporium Pelargonii E. & E. On leaves of Pelargonium (cult), Pasadena, Gala., Feb. 1894 (Prof. A. J. McClatchie).
Spots orbicular, 1-3 mm.
diam.
, greenish at first, then rusty brown, with a narrow, raised margin causing them to appear discoid.
HyphiB amphigeuous but more abuudant above, eff'used or sparingly fasciculate, yellowbrown, erect, 2-3-septate, swollen at the tips, 2530 X 5-6'/, bearing' the terminal, obovate, or subquadrate, 3-septate, and muriform, 20-30 x 18-22//.
conidia, which are mostly constricted at the middle septum and have no pedicel.
Macrosporium tabacinum E. & E. On leaves of tobacco, North Carolina, Oct. 1891 (Prof. Gerald McCarthy), INIissouri (Miss Clendinin).
Spots amphigenous, numerous, small, irregular or suborbicular, definite, thin, white, with a narrow, raised margin, 1-3 mm.
diam.
Hyphpe amphigenous, fasciculate, tufts eff"used, septate, geniculate above, ferruginous-brown, 30-50 x 3-4//, crooked and spreading.
Conidia obovate-clavate, stipitate, 3-9-septate and muriformly divided, 50-90 x .0-15/'.
The smaller conidia are often without any stipe, while the larger ones have a persistent stipe from 8-25// long.
This is closely allied to 31. candatum C. & E. It is called by the planters "white speck," and with Phyllosticta tabaci Pass, is very injurious to the plants.
Macrosporium olivaceum E. & E. Parasitic on Sphcvro-psis Asimince E. & E., on dead limbs of Admina triloba, Nuttallburg, West Va., March, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
388).
Forms a light olive, veliitinous coat over the pustules of the SpJurropsis.
Hyphse tufted, yellowishbrown (under the microscope), septate, erect, nearly straight or subundulate, 80-100 x 4-5//.
Conidia obovate or obpiriforra, 3-5-septate and muriform, brown, 24—38 X 15-20//, terminal, sessile.
Conidia also occur subcubical or subglobose, 15-20// diara.
with 2-septa crossing each other at right angles.
Sporodesmium fructigenum E. & E. On decaying apples.
Las Cruces, New Mexico, Oct. 1893 (E. W. Wooton).
Appears like a thin, dark colored, velvety coating, appearing first around the stem end but finally spreading over the greater part of the apple Conidia subglobose or elliptical, stipitate, yellowish and uniseptate at first, finally nearly opake and muriform, 12-26/'.
in the longer diameter.
The conidia have a berrylike structure like that of S. Rauii E. & H. or S. moriforme Pk.
The pedicels, which are 12-15 x S/Jt are deciduous.
Sporodesmium subcupulatum E. & E. On dead Sambucus melanocarpa, Cameron Pass, Colorado, July, 1894 (C. F. Baker, No.
236, partly).
At first tuberculiform, minute, i—k mm.
diam.
, erumpent and surrounded by the ruptured epidermis, becoming concave and often oblong 1-2 mm.
long, o-| mm.
wide, slaty black; conidia olivaceous, muriform, subglobose, 10-15// diam., or subelliptical or clavateoblong, 20-30 X 10-12//, sessile or with a short, thick pedicel.
In the concave stage the acervuli and conidia are paler.
Sporodesmium tuberouliforme E. & E., n. sp.
On dead stems of Sambucus racemosa, near Rabbit Ear Pass, N. W. Colo., alt.
10,000 ft., July, 1894 (Prof C. S. Crandall, No.
15).
Sporodochia tuberculiform, black, inside and out, about 1 mm.
diam., flattened above.
Conidia irregular in shape and variable in size, subcubical, subglobose, subelliptical, consisting of 2-20 subglobose cells variously conglomerated so as to form the conidia 8-20// diam.
The tubercular mass consists almost entirely of the compacted conidia which are more perfectly developed in the superficial layer.
Podosporiella E. & E., n. gen. of Phczostilbece PhragmosporcB .
Stroma cellular, soft, not carbonaceous, short-cylindrical.
Hyphse short, simple, arising from all parts of the stroma.
Conidia terminal, oblong or cylindrical, brown, 2or more-septate.
Differs from Podosporiuvi in its simple, cellular stroma (stipe).
Podosporiella humilis E. & E. On leaves of Garrya Veitchii, Echo Mt., Cala., July, 1894 (Prof. A. J. McClatchie, No.
736).
Spots orbicular, brown, with a definite, dark margin 2-4 ram.
diam.
Stroraata hypophyllous, scattered on the spots, black, shortcylindrical, or conic-cylindrical, about 1 mm.
high and 2 mm.
thick, of membrauaceocellular structure.
Hyphje spreading on all sides from the stroma, pale brown, simple, continuous, 15-20x4—5/-'., bearing the terminal, solitary, oblong-cylindrical, pale-brown, uniseptate at first, then 2-4septate, 15-27 x 6-7,a conidia.
Illosporium csespitosum E. & E. On rotten wood, Nuttallburg, West Va., Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
231).
Sporodochia globose, 100-110/'.
diam., cespitose, forming tufts about 1 mm.
diam.
Hyphoe 6-8// thick, branched, the branches curved or tortuous.
Conidia globose or ovate 6-12/7.
diam.
Differs from I. coccinellum Cke.
in its color, and larger, cespitose sporodochia.
Illosporium album E. & E. On cypress bark, Louisiana (Langlois, No.
284).
Sporodochia gregarious, milk-white, ovate, 140-160x100-110/'.
Hyphte imperfectly defined, free and mostly curved above, united below into a coarsely cellular, mass.
Conidia peripherical, subglobose, 8-10// diam.
Differs from I. palUdxim Cooke, in its smaller sporodochia, imperfectly defined hyph?e, and milk-white color.
Trichaeg'um nodulosum E. & E. On dead leaves of Carex Fraseri, Nuttallburg, West Va. , Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
333).
Erumpent, tufted, becoming subeffused, black, tufts gregarious forming subvelutinous patches 2-4 mm.
across, or when standing singly, the hyphje and conidia forming a compact mass, 5-I mm.
diam., and resembling somewhat the sorus of a Puecinia.
Hyphse simple, sparingly fasciculate, brown, septate, often swollen at the 26 septa, about 4;/ thick and 200-300;/ long.
Conidia near the base of the hyph?c, at first elliptical, yellowish-hyaline, iiniseptate 8-10x61 II-, soon becoming 4-6-septate, nuirif'orni and opake, 10-25//.
diam., subglobose, obovate, or elliptical.
Pilacre gracilipes E. & E. On rotten wood, Nuttallburg, West Va., Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
274).
Scattered, stem slender, white-pruinose, 3 mm.
long, \-i mm.
thick.
Head subhemispherical, olivaceous, about 1 mm.
diam.
Fertile hyphae hyaline, dichotomously branched, 2-lhiJ.
thick, bearing the conidia laterally.
Conidia globose or subglobose, yellowbrown under the microscope, 4-5j//.
diam.
Smaller and of a more slender growth than P. Petersli B.
& C. Tubercularia hamata E. & E. On dead limbs of Celtis occidentalis, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
313).
Depressed-hemispherical, umbonate, soon becoming black, 2-14 mm.
diam.
Conidia oblong, slightly curved, hyaline, 5-8 x 12-2;/, on slender, simple sporophores 30-40;/.
long, incurved or involute at the tips.
Hymenula cerealis E. & E. On wheat straw, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
495).
Sporodochia gelatinous, orbicular, yellowishamber color, becoming darker, at first subpulvinate, becoming depressed or flattened, *-f mm.
diam.
Basidia slender, 25-30x11;/, simple or oftener branched, the branches erect.
Conidia hyaline, oblong, minute, 34x1-11;/.. Microcera erumpens E. & E. On dead limbs of Tsuga Canadensis, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No.
371).
Sporodochia depressedglobose, 2 mm.
diam., at first covered by the epidermis, soon exposed and bare, orange-red, at length disappearing and leaving cup-shaped cavities in the bark.
Conidia falcate, nucleate and finally 3or moreseptate, 75-83 x 3-4;/., hyaline, borne on short (20-35;/) sporophores which are more or less branched above.
Differs from M. coccophila Desm.
in the shape of the sporodochia and their subcuticular origin.
