ON A COLLECTION OF BATRACHIA AND REPTILIA FROM THE ISLAND OF HAINAN.
BY E. D. COPE.
The collection on which the following notes are based was made by the Rev.
Francis Gilman who sent them to Prof. Chas.
S. Dolley.
Prof Dolley placed them in uiy hands for identification and description.
Hyla arborea var.
This form agrees in structural features with the true Hjla arborea of Europe but differs in coloration not only from this but from the two subspecies which are known from Eastern Asia H. a. chinensis and S. a. japonica.
The extended hind limb marks a point between the eye and the nostril with the heel.
The vomerine teeth are between the internal nostrils but the posterior borders of the fasciculi are behind a line which connects their posterior borders.
The diameter of the tympanum is about half that of the eye and the interorbital width is greater than that of an eyelid.
The length of the head to a line connecting the posterior borders of the tympana enters the total length 3.2 times.
The fingers are slightly webbed and the toes are about twothirds webbed.
There is a heavy glandular fold from the orbit to the shoulder.
The color is uniform green above and uniform pale perhaps yellowish below.
There are no spots of any kind anywhere.
A light brown band extends from the eye through the tympanum and disappears about the shoulder.
It has neither dark nor pale borders and is hence very indistinct.
A similar band extends from the eye to the nostril.
Upper lip not pale bordered nor spotted.
Total length 40 mm.
 do.
of hind leg from groin 59 mm.
 of hind foot 27 mm.
Holarclius doUeyanus sp.
nov.
Plate X fig.
1.
Scales in seventeen rows.
Superior labials eight all higher than long the fourth and fifth entering the orbit the sixth in contact with the inferior postocular only the seventh in contact with the lower postocular and more extensively with the parietal.
Loreal trapezoid oculars 12 temporals 02.
Interuasal mutual contact short parietals short wide truncate posteriorly bounding both postoculars posteriorly.
Pregenials bounded by four labials a little longer than postgenials.
Gastrosteges 164 obtusely angulated  anal entire urosteges 36.
Color above yellowishbrown below brownishyellow.
No marks on the head on the superior surface of the body there are indistinct cross bars which consist of the dark edges of scales at intervals of two and three scales they are not continued on the tail.
Total length 400 mm.
 of tail 58 mm.
This species probably resembles the H. swiiihonis Gthr.
Rept.
Brit.
India p. 215 PI.
XX fig.
E.  but it differs materially in having but one preocular in the absence of an anterior temporal  in the contact of the anterior genial with four labials and in the longer postgenial.
The color above is pale brown not olive.
The hemipenis of this species is smooth and without spines flounces or ruches agreeing with that of the 11. ancorus as figured by me in the American Naturalist 1894 Plate XXVII fig.
4.
These characters refer the genus to the Calamariiuse with Oligodon etc.
See American Naturalist' 1893 p.
480.
A character of subordinate value seen in the hemipenis of H. ancorus which is not present in H. dolleyanus is a shallow pocket on each side of the sulcus spermaticus.
There is a rudimental right lung 5 mm.
in length communicating with the trachea by foramen.
No tracheal lung.
This species is dedicated to my friend the distinguished zoologist.
Dr. Chas.
S. Dolley.
Pareas moellendoriiii Bcsttger.
A single male specimen gives me an opportunity of determining the position of this curious genus.
With some external resemblance to the American Leptognathus it combines not dissimilar dentition and squamation it is to be presumed that the habits are not dissimilar.
Examination of the hemipenis shows however that it is really related to the Calamariinte and to Slmotes.
This organ is without spines or ruches and has only flat obtuse papillre on the middle third of its length the distal portion being smooth with a few feeble papilke at the apex.
It is deeply bifurcate the basal portion being quite short.
At the summit of the middle papillose section is an oblique membranous Hounce with a lobate margin.
No tracheal lung  and I could find no right lung.
Amphiesma stolatum L. In this species the hemipenis displays the usual natricine characters of a basal hook and small spines reaching to the apex without ruches or flounces.
The spines are however coarser than in most other species.
The organ moreover is undivided and with undivided sulcus and as A. stolatum is the type of the genus the latter must be defined accordingly and not as divided as I inferred from an examination of allied species which have been referred to it by authors.'
These supposed species of Amphiesma which I have examined which have divided hemipenis and diacranterian dentition are also characterized by the presence of fossje of the hemipenis from the center of each of which a spiuule issues.
These are the Amph.
figrinum and A. ceylonense and they belong to my genus Bothrodytes which name should take the place of Amphiesma in ray original Prodromus 1. c. The genera of Natricinse with basal hooks will then be as follows   I. Fusiform types  hemipenis and sulcus undivided.
Hemipenis simple  anal divided  One internasal scales keeled  Haldea B.
 G. Two interuasals scales keeled Amphiardis Cope.
Two internasals scales smooth  Virginia B.
 G. Hemipenis with two apical papilhc anal entire.
Two internasals scales keeled Tropidodoninm Cope.
II.
Colubriform types.
a. Hemipenis undivided.
b. Dentition syucranteriau or isodont.
Anal plate entire a loreal Eutaniia B.
 G. Anal plate divided no loreal Storeria B.
 G. Anal plate divided a loreal Natrix Laur.
Anal plate divided a loreal one prefrontal Trimerodytes Cope bb.
Dentition diacranterian.
Scales keeled two internasals Amphiesma D  B. Scales smooth one internasal  Liodytes CoTpe.
aa.
Hemipenis divided.
b. Dentition syncranterian.
1 American Naturalist 1893 p. 483.
Hemipenis with two apical papillae Ceratophnllus Cope.
Hemipeuis without papilla Diplophallas Cope.
bh.
Dentition diacrauterian.
Hemipenis without papilla Bothrodytes Cope.
Trimerodytes balteatus gen. et sp.
nov.
Plate X fig.
2.
Char.
gen.  Characters of Natrix but the prefrontals fused.
The dentition is syncranterian or coryphodont.
Hemipenis undivided sulcus simple.
The single species on which this genus is proposed is represented by an individual which while apparently not very young is at the same time not fully grown.
As a consequence the spinulfes of the hemipenis are not ossified appearing as fine flexible papillae.
This is the condition normal to immature snakes as I have observed in the genera Dryviobius Bascanium etc.
Char specif.
 Scales in nineteen rows smooth except on the tail where all except the lateral rows are feebly keeled and for a short distance in front of the vent where about three dorsal rows are also weakly keeled.
Each internasal longer than wide.
Frontal rather wide with straight borders the anterior a little longer than the lateral.
Parietal moderately elongate angulate posteriorly and embracing only the superior postocular.
Loreal higher than long  oculars 12 or 3 temporals 12.
Superior labials nine.
These are differently distributed on opposite sides so that the numbers may be in other specimens eight or ten.
One labial forming most of inferior border of orbit which may be the fourth or fifth  the angle of the succeeding labial enters the orbit.
On one side two plates represent the single last upper labial on the other.
Inferior labials nine pregenials shorter than postgenials and bounded by six labials.
Gastrosteges  202 anal 11 urosteges 84.
Color black crossed by white or pale yellow rings.
These have a width of half of a scale on the middle dorsal region and widen downward covering two or three gastrosteges.
They are frequently broken on the middle line the halves alternating both on the back and belly.
The labials and oculars have yellow centers and there is a yellow line from near the angle of the mouth to near the middle line above.
A pair of yellow spots are on each side of the common suture of the parietal plates.
Total length 377 mm.
 tail 80 mm.
Bothrops erythrurus Cantor.
Before leaving the Ophidia I add some remarks on the peuial characters of some species which do not enter the present collection and which I have recently examined.
The genus Anomalodon Jan Lioheterodon Bouleuger from a nom.
nud.
of Dum.
 Bibr.
has the hemipenis deeply divided and covered with minute spines without large hooks at the base.
It is to be referred to the Pseudaspidina
of my Prodromus approaching the genus Fseudaspis m. of S. Africa.
Boulenger has shown that it has the natricine hypapophyses.
The Australian Dipsas fiisca Gray differs from the genus Dipsas in the absence of spines from the hemipenis  the characters are otherwise as in Dijsas.
I propose to name this new genus Liophallus with L. fiiscus as type.
I propose to separate Drymohius percarinatus Cope from Drymobius as the type of a distinct genus under the name of Cacocalyx.
It differs from that genus in the structure of the terminal half of the hemipenis.
Instead of the usual papillose calyces there are rows of spines on longitudinal folds and the apex is covered with a few large shallow smoothedged calyces which are separated from the spinous portion by a continuous transverse fold i. e.  the apex is capitate.
I have compared this organ with the corresponding ones of Drymohius margaritiferas type  D. pantherinvs  D. reticulatus D. boddaertii and D. puleherrimus where they are essentially alike.
The genus Cacocalyx is quite different from any other form of Colubrinse.
The Cyclophis major Guuth. presents the penial characters of the Colubrinse but has an especial peculiarity not shared by any other species with which I am acquainted.
In the proximal internal wall of each calyx is a transverse comb of a few spines.
These do not graduate into the spines of the middle of the hemipenis which are well developed.
The borders of the calyces are serrate to papillose.
As this type is clearly not referable to any known genus I propose to distinguish it by the name of Entechinus.
It is evidently not very nearly related to Liopeltis and Cyclophis of N. America.
The genus Macroprotodon Guich.
has the apical region of the hemipenis calyculate and the papillae at the angles of the calyces are spinous i.e. ossified to near the tip.
There are numerous spines below the calyces.
Hemipenis simple.
The genus belongs to the Dipsadinse.
Psammodynastes has a divided penis which is spinous to the tip and not calyculate.
The spines are arranged in the branches in oblique series pinnate to the sulcus.
Not knowing the structure in Psammophis I cannot determine the affinity of the genus.
In Osceola elapsoidea the penial characters are like those of Ophibolus doliatus i. e. the calyces are numerous and fringed.
In Ophihohis they are very few and have entire borders.
I therefore place 0. doliatus in Osceola.
All the species of Ophibolus agree in the character assigned.
The Dromicus flavilatus Cope of the S. E. coast regions of the United States has the penial structure of Rhadinaea Cope and does not belong to Dromicus.
The organ is undivided and the calyculate region is capitate.
We have here a case parallel to the genus Liodites of which the type species was supposed to be a Helicops.
Both these Floridan forms turn out to be allies of types found on the North American continent.
Caiisus Licht.
has the character of other Solenoglypha i.e. coarsely spinous at the middle and calyculate above and deeply bifurcate.
In C. rhombeatus the only species examined there is at the middle of each branch a longitudinal fissurelike interruption of the calyculate structure which contains feeble laminte on its sides and fundus.
The calyces are papillose.
As regards the structure of the lungs I have to add observations on two species not previously examined.
In Anomalodon madagascariensis there is no tracheal lung nor auricle of the large left lung.
The rudimental right lung measures about 6 mm.
In Psammo2liis irregularis the structure is similar in the points mentioned except that I could not discover a rudimental right lung.
Calotes versicolor Daud.
