NOTES ON THE VARYING HARES OF WASHINGTON AND BRITISH COLUMBIA WITH DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SUBSPECIES.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
In the determination of the relationships of the Varying Hare Lepus americanus of interior British Columbia it became necessary to handle a larger number of specimens of this group from west of the Rocky Mountains than has hitherto been available for study.
This material includes typical specimens of L. washingtoni from near Puget Sound four winter skins and ten skulls from near the Suoqualmie Pass Washington and four skins and six skulls from Hope B.
 '. kindly loaned me by Mr. Outram Bangs.
It is to be regretted that summer specimens of the Cascade Mountain form from Washington were not available as it is impossible to establish their relations to typical washingtoni in any other way.
On this account these notes may be considered as merely preliminary to a more thorough investigation of material now being collected in these regions.
A comparison of a large series of skulls from the Cascades and lowlands of Washington convinces me that washingtoni is specifically distinct from americanus and it is probable that the form of washingtoni found in the higher Cascades is a wellmarked race.
The cranial characters taken from average adult skulls from Maine and Puget Sound which separate americanus and washingtoni may be thus stated.
Ij.
americanus L. washingtoni Postorbital processes wide and Postorbital processes slender flaring their internal posterior J the posterior margins straight or margins curved outwardly their incurved their points directed points directed outwardly and within the lateral sutures of the widely separated from frontal frontals and in older specimens bones.
Supraorbital processes of nearly touching them.
Supraorfrontals strongly developed into bital margins of frontals serrate a spur directed outwardly forsometimes with a single rounded ward and forming with the postnotch.
orbital process  an anvilshaped Incisive foramina jointly formpromontory on each side the Ironinga hastate figure with rounded tals.
apex and basally narrower than Incisive foramina together at its median diameter.
Greatforming a regular isosceles trianest triturating width of molars gle the double creuate base being 4.2 mm basilar length of skull 242 1895.
L. washingtoni.
56 zygomatic width 87 greatest distance between outer alveoli of right and left maxiliaries 20.7.
L. americanus.
the widest part of their expansion and the apex acutely pointed.
Greatest triturating width of molars 5 mm basilar length of skull 58 zygomatic width 37 greatest outer distance between alveolar walls of right and left maxiliaries 24.5.
It will be seen that the molar and incisor dentition of washingtoni is relatively much weaker than in skulls of americanus of the same size with a corresponding narrowing of the palatal and rostral area and a corresponding change in the shape of the incisive foramina the constancy of which coupled with the peculiarity of the frontal process is to my mind quite sufficient for a specific separation of the Pacific and Atlantic coast representatives of this group.
The following diagnosis is of a hare whose cranial characters are distinctly the same as those of skulls of americanus from Maine Lepus americanus columbiensis sub sp.
nov.
Type ad 9  No.
462 Col. of S. N. Rhoads Vernon B. Columbia.
Col. by S. N. Bhoads July 29 1892 Description.
Size of average L. americanus.
Summer pelage above light tawny gray blackish on rump tail and anterior border terminal of ears anterior base of ears crown cheeks upper fore leg sides of hams and upper surfaces of feet light rusty soles of feet sooty.
Inner fore and hind legs lower head lips breast fore part of abdomen and spot in forehead white.
Lower neck like back.
Lower abdomen and tail bluish gray suffused with rusty.
Fur of back with basal half plumbeous median fourth light rusty terminal fourth black a few of the hairs wholly black and many with minute black tip and proportionally wider rusty median zone.
Measurements.
Total length 4G5 mm.
 tail vertebrae 43  hind foot L 40 ear inner anterior border of dry skin 72.
Skull total length occipitonasal 79 basilar length 62 length of nasals 32.5 posterior interorbital constriction 10.2 zygomatic expansion 38 greatest length of mandible 58 greatest width of same 35.5.
This strongly marked race of the Varying Hare is represented by the type and another adult female taken by me in June on the Caribou Road between Ashcroft and Clinton B. C. It represents the faunal peculiarities of the arid interior basin of southern British Columbia and may at once be distinguished from any of the vari.it ions of americanus east of the Rocky Mountains by its grayness and almost total lack of rufous above.
From the Kooky Mountain and east Cascade form which for present purposes may be called bairdi the color of the feet is a distinguishing character while as compared with washingtoni the differences in color and size are obvious enough to need no comment.
18
