NEW SPECIES OF FRESH WATER MOLLUSKS FROM SOUTH AMERICA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The forms described below were encountered in the course of identifying a series of mollusks collected by Dr. Wm.
H. Rush, U. S. N., in Uruguay and Argentina, a list of which will be found in The Nautilus for November of this year.
To the forms collected by Dr.
Rush have been added several others,apparently undescribed, from the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, To the above-mentioned paper in The Nautilus the reader is referred for some account of the localities represented by specimens here described, and for notes on the species associated with them, CHILINIDiE.
Chilina RusMi n. sp.
PI.
XXVI, fi^s.
6, 7.
Shell oval, strong, yellowish-olivaceous with five girdles of dusky, narrow spots alternating with lighter ones.
Spire produced, terraced, but flat-topped, the whorls strongly keeled around the shoulder, flat above the keel.
Aperture long-ovate, white with chestnut spots inside ; outer lip thin ; columellar lip white, callous, with a strong, acute entering fold at the root, and a very inconsijicuous fold in the middle ; the parietal wall with a strong entering fold which is abrupt below, and filled in above with a heavy callus.
Alt.
16, diam.
lOj mm.
; alt.
of aperture 12 mm.
Uruguay River at Fray Bentos (Dr.
Rush !).
The conspicuously angular spire is a peculiar feature of this shell.
The apex is considerably eroded, so that the number of whorls cannot be stated.
LIMW^IDJE.
Planorbis castaneonitens Pilsbry &, Vanatta, n. sp.
PI.
XXVII, figs.
10, 11, 12.
Shellthin, chestnut brown, very smooth and glossy; growth-striae light ; right and left sides showing 4 whorls, about equally and quite shallowly concave ; spire on right side less than half the diameter of shell, inner 1 h whorls more sunken ; spire on left side decidedly wider than on the right.
Last whorl wide on the right, narrow on the left side, the periphery very obtusely angular near the left side.
Aperture quite oblique, cordate, the peristome thin and fragile, produced forward on the right side.
Alt.
r7, diam.
7 mm.
Ponds and small streams near Maid on ado, Uruguay (Dr.
Rush !).
Compared with P. heloicus d'Orb., this species is flatter and more glossy, has the spire much narrower on the right side, the outer whorl wider and less cylindrical ; the color is darker and the periphery rounded-angular.
Planorbis heteropleurus Pilsbry & Vanatta, n. sp.
PI.
XXVI, iags.
1, 2, 3.
Shell moderately solid, corneous-white, rather opaque, the surface with fine, close growth-lines ; earlier whorls rather deeply and about equally sunken on the two sides ; convex, and strongly angular or keeled in the middle, on the right side ; periphery conspicuously carinated on the left side, which is shallowly vortex-shaped, the whorls nearly flat.
Last whorl slightly wider on the right than on the left side.
Whorls 3 J, all visible on both sides, the last wider than the spire.
Aperture very oblique, rounded-pentagonal, the right margin produced forward.
Alt.
4i, greatest diam.
11 J, lesser 8} mm.
; oblique alt.
of aperture 5J, diam.
4 mm.
Lake Titicaca (A. Agassiz !).
Types No.
69,645, collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
This remarkable species is totally unlike P. titicacensis Cless.,' P, montanus d'Orbigny^ and P. andicola d'Orbigny,^ species already known from this Andean lake.
It is most like P. andicola, but much flatter with diflferently placed keels, and, in fact, so diverse in characters that no profitable comparison can be made.
Described from eight specimens, which are alike in all essential characters.
CYRENID^.
Corbicula Coloniensis n. sp.
PI.
XXVI, fig.
9.
Shell subtriangular, rather ventricose, slightly inequilateral ; anterior and posterior margins obtusely angular, the slope above the rounded angles slightly convex ; posterior slope decidedly longer ; basal margin well curved, rounded ; beaks moderately projecting.
Hinge ligament very convex, short and yellowish.
Surface nearly ^ Conchylien Cabinet, Planorbis, p. 147, pi.
1 2, f. 23-25.
Clessin locates Lake Titicaca in Ecuador I On p. 175 lie calls the species P. titicacaensis.
"■ Voy.
Am.
Merid., p. 345, pi.
44, f. 5-8.
Ubid.,^.
346, f. 1-4. smooth in the middle, finely, irregularly striate at the ends and basal margin.
Green, duskier above, with narrow, widely spaced and inconspicuous blackish rays, the eroded beaks deep purple.
Interior deep purple, clouded with whitish purple within the pallial line, the teeth of the same light tint.
Pallial line with a short triangular sinus ; right valve with three divergent cardinal teeth, median and posterior teeth bifid at tip ; median tooth wide, anterior and posterior teeth long and oblique ; left valve with three cardinals, the median bifid at tip.
Laterals crenulated, long, the anterior slightly curved, posterior straight ; double in right, single in left valve.
Length 32*, alt.
27J, diam.
15i mm.
Length 28, alt.
24, diam.
15 mm.
La Plata River above Colonia, Uruguay (Dr.
Rush).
Larger and more triangular than C. limosa.
The lateral teeth are unusually long, and the cardinals widely divergent.
MUTELID^.
Glabaris latomarginatus Lea var.
felix n. r. PI.
XXVI, fig.
8.
Similar in form to Anodonta latomarginata Lea, but epidermis light yellowish-green, closely painted with short radiating dichotomous or simple lines or narrow V's of green, and two green rays on the posterior slope.
Interior pale pink within pallial line, prismatic border faint olive buflf".
Some black zig-zags along pallial line or outlining muscle impressions.
Length 53, alt.
38, diam.
20 J mm.
Length 49, alt.
35, diam.
18 mm.
Colonia, Uruguay (Dr.
Rush).
Glabaris trapesialis var.
cygneiformis n. v. PI.
XXVI, figs.
4, 5.
Shell similar to some forms of Anodonta eygnea, such as that figured by Rossmiissler, Iconogr., I, fig.
280, in the elongate form, long and up-curved posterior end, but hinge-line straight and produced in a small wing anteriorly, terminating angularly.
Very thin and fragile, even in specimens 14 cm.
long.
Green and smooth in middle, blackish and roughened at ends and basal margin ; nacre bluewhite, iridescent, dark-stained in the cavity more or less, and often with some zig-zag blackish markings around the muscles.
Length 142, alt.
75, diam.
36 cm.
; alt.
52-53 %, diam.
26 % of length.
More compressed than G. riograndensis Iher., with the hinge-line more angular at the ends and the posterior end peculiarly up37 curved, as in certain middle European forms of A. cygnea.
The specimens are also even thinner than examples of riograndends before me, of equal size.
Pond and a small creek near Maldonado, Uruguay (Dr.
Rush).
The differences between this form and typical trapesialis are manifest when we compare the typical figures of the latter in Encycl.
Meth., pi.
205, which agree perfectly with specimens before me.
The divergence between the several geographic races of G. trapesialis, such as riograndensis, exoticus and cygneiformis render it necessary, in my opinion, to recognize these as of subspecific rank.
The extreme " lumpers " do not seem to understand that if evolution of species by divergence is granted, " subspecies " are a necessary consequence, whether we distinguish them by name or not.
Every practical zoologist knows that they exist, and are neither more nor less artificial or subjective conceptions than " species ; " and it seems a truer method to recognize certain races in which more or less definite characters are correlated with geographic range, than to lose sight of the differences induced by causes acting over whole districts or river-systems by lumping unlike forms under "species" which are equally with subspecies, arbitrary groupings.
Glabaris Simpsonianus n. sp.
PI.
XXVII, fig.
13.
Shell oblong-oval, ventricose, very inequilateral, thick, solid and heavy ; greatest diameter about in the middle ; basal margin gaping from the anterior extremity nearly two-thirds the distance to posterior end ; dorsal margin gaping slightly from the end of hinge to the posterior end of shell ; externally green toward the beaks, the greater part of the surface olivaceous, blackish brown at the ends and basal margin, the posterior dorsal slopes biradiate with green ; the surface smooth and polished, with rather coarse, low wrinkles of growth, more crowded and somewhat lamellose at the ends and basal margin.
Upper and basal outlines about equally curved ; hinge margin long, wide, somewhat sloping, gently curved, rounded or hardly angular at the ends ; posterior margin sloping above, rounded below ; anterior end somewhat narrower, rounded ; beaks wide and low.
Interior silvery or salmon-tinted, very pearly, usually showing irregular black parallel lines in the neighborhood of the muscle impressions and pallial line.
Cavity of valves deep, of beaks shallow and wide ; muscle-scars well impressed, the foot protractor scar unusually long ; posterior adductor scar situated very near to the sinus at end of hinge line, and connected therewith by a short impression ; prismatic layer at margins of valves narrow and bluish-green.
Length 14, alt.
7'8, diam.
5*4 cm.
Length 14*5, alt.
8'1, diam.
5"5 cm.
Kio de la Plata.
Described from seven specimens in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
This species is named in honor of Mr. Charles Torrey Simpson, whose valuable papers upon the Unionidce have been of great service to students of this intricate and difficult group.
G. Simpsonianus belongs to the group of G. trapesialis Lam.
It differs from typical trapesialis (Encycl.
Meth., pi.
205) in being oval rather than subtriangular ; the beaks are far less inflated, low and wide ; the nacre is peculiarly pearly, having the luster of that of the pearl oyster ; the hinge line is more nearly parallel with the basal margin and is far longer in proportion to the length of the shell ; the posterior large muscle-scar is close to the sinus at end of hinge-line, not distant from it as in trapesialis ; the foot protractor scar is of a very different shape.
Finally, the shell, while smaller, is much more ponderous and thick than trapesialis.
Well-grown specimens of trapesialis measure 19 cm.
long, and are thinner than Simpsonianus 14 cm.
in length.
Anodon penicillatus Gray* apparently resembles this species in the internal markings (which are common to many species of Glaharis), but it is described as "Antice suhcompressa, rotundata, subgracili," terms applying well to some forms of G. trapesialis var.
exoticus.
The great solidity of the shell for a Glabaris will separate the species from G. trapesialis var.
exoticus Lam.
and var.
riograndensis V. Iher.
It resembles G. Forbesianus Lea in the thickness of the shell, but is more oblong, with longer hinge-line, wider beaks, differently shaped protractor pedis scar, and wider ventral gape.
*Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond., 1834, p. 57.
566 proceedings of the academy of [1896.
December 1.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Thirty-seven persons present.
December 8.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Twenty-seven persons present.
December 15.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Twenty-five persons present.
December 22.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Thirty-one persons present.
The death of Auguste Louis Brot, a Correspondent, August 30, was announced.
December 29.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Forty-four persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication : — " Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Georgia Coast," by Clarence B. Moore.
(By title).
"Descriptions of New South American Bulimuli," by Henry A. Pilsbry.
The following was ordered to be printed : —
