GEOLOGY OF THE MUSSEL-BEARING CLAYS OF FISH-HOUSE, NEW JERSEY.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The deposit containing fresh-water mussels of the genera Uriio and Anodonta, situated at Fish-house, Camden County, New Jersey, on the Delaware River, about 5 miles north of Camden, was first noticed, so far as we know, by Professor E. D. Cope, who placed a series of the fossil Unionidce in the hands of Dr. Isaac Lea for description^ in 1868.
In Dr. Lea's paper the bed containing these remains is said to be "subordinate to the Green Sand >!«*** belonging to that portion of the cretaceous group which furnished * * * * Hadrosaurus Foulhii Leidy," etc' The species of Unionidce, twelve in number, were fully redescribed and illustrated in 1886 by Professor R. P. Whitfield,^ who, relying upon the above statement in Dr. Lea's paper, considers the deposit as " from near the base of the Cretaceous series of the State."
Professor E. D. Cope,* in a brief consideration of " The Fresh-water Clays of the Pea Shore," in 1869, gave an excellent section of the beds, which may be consulted with advantage in connection with the present communication.
He held that they were " much later" than the Cretaceous, and, in fact, Pliocene ; basing this conclusion largely upon the finding of a large part of the cranium of a horse believed to be Equus fraternus Leidy.
The late H. Carvill Lewis, on the contrary, held the Fish-house clay to be "of interglacial age," ^ and this estimate of the age of the deposit is shared by Dr. C. A. White,® who considers the fossils as of post-Tertiary date.
This is also, I believe, the opinion of most Philadelphia geologists who have recently examined the subject.
iProc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1868, p. 162. '
It is diflBcult to account for this statement, which finds no justification in the stratigraphy of the region in question, so far as I can see.
^ Brachiopoda and Lamellibranchiata of the Raritan Clays and Green Sand Marls of New Jersey, pp.
243-252.
* Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XIV, N.
Ser., pp.
249, 250.
^ Professor Lewis did not, I believe, formally publish this view, but taught it in his lectures at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, synopses of which were published in the " Public Ledger," April-June, 1884.
The above quotation is from one of these newspaper reports.
* A Review of the Non-Marine Fossil Mollusca of North America, 1883.
The view that the Fish-house clay is of Pleistocene age is materially strengthened by the discovery therein of several horse teeth by Mr. Lewis Woolman, and by the recognition of the identity of at least a portion of the Umonida with living species, a subject referred to below.
The fossils occur only in a layer of black clay, which is used for brick and tile making.
This deposit is capped by a layer of coarse sand.
Under the black clay is a much thinner stratum of yellow or reddish clay, containing considerable sand and deeply stained with iron oxide.
Below this stratum, which is about two feet thick where observed, there is coarse gravelly sand, which forms the foundation of the superimposed clays.
This sand deposit is of considerable thickness, and the various sections exposed show it to be dis___^____.
:^_^r:;_r2^^^;^;r:2 tluctly stratified, the strata being obliquely \UM7^'^&(0A^'H.i^^u-'% laminated, as shown in the annexed dia%^0M^'''''^^^''''-^^ gram.
The character of these strata is ^l^s^r;,.
;;;*^j^,,e A^ completely that of arenaceous deposits in jj^ .,: ■^:..^.■J■;'•■^v:^^:■x''^^■>^ river-beds.
So far as I know, such a ...v^i.,-.-:-.=--.---"'<^-"-'-» '^^••'^•disposition of the materials is not pro^^^1duced by any other means.
No such Obliquely laminated strata.
.
.-a 4.i i r i • t^ ■^ stratincation and oblique lammation is to be seen in the coarse sand at the summit of the clays.
This difference indicates a diverse origin for the two deposits.
In the opinion of the writer, the peculiarities of the Fish-house clays may be explained by the supposition that the deposit has been purely a result of river-action.
The phenomena are exactly paralleled by processes now in progress in the rivers of the Mississippi system, where similar deposits containing a similar fauna may be seen in every stage of formation.
Upon this theory the sands underlying the red clay were deposited in a former Delaware River bed, the river at that time flowing in a direction practically parallel to its present course, as shown by the direction of the oblique lamination of the strata.
A change in the river's course, such as cutting across the neck of an " ox-bow," or some similar shifting, left the former bed at this point a lagoon, similar to the so-called " sloughs " of the Mississippi River.
A lagoon of this nature, while it quickly becomes dammed at the upstream end, for a time receives a portion of the current in time of high water.
In the case under consideration, the layer of red, more or less arenaceous, clay was probably deposited during this period of partial isolation.
Further separation of the slough from the stream is effected by the growth of willows and other vegetation upon the alluvial ridge at its head, which rapidly gains in height by the debris collected thereby.
The lagoon of quiet water thus formed is a very favorable station for molluscan and other aquatic life, sedentary animals, or those of weak locomotive powers becoming far more numerous than in the active current of the parent stream.
Such a lagoon thus gradually fills up with fine mud partly composed of organic material.
In the case under consideration, the black clay represents this period.
During this time the mussels flourished in the still water.
Finally the lagoon or " slough " became dry land, this being the ordinary result of the process.
The naiad fauna of the Fish-house deposit is precisely similar in general character to that of the " sloughs " of the Mississippi River to-day.
The cap of sand upon the black clay may be regarded as a later deposition of more general geographic distribution, while the formations it overlies in this place are believed to be the result of strictly local causes, and antedating by a lapse of time, greater or less in duration, the overlying gravels.
As to the fossils themselves, it must be admitted that their divergence from living forms is very slight in most cases — a fact which Dr. Lea significantly indicated by his choice of specific names.
Some of the species are really not distinguishable from modern shells.
Thus Unio nasutoides has no characters which can not be readily paralleled in the living Unionasutus or fisherianus.
Anodonta corpulentoides is equally indistinguishable from A. corpulenta.
The absolute counterpart of Unio radiatoides may be selected from any collection of U. radiatus, and so on.
The remarkable feature of the series of fossil forms is that certain of them have no modern representatives in the Atlantic drainage south of the Great Lake and St. Lawrence system.
The following " species " exemplify this statement : U. ligamentinoides, alatoides, prceanodontoides, rectoides, Anodonta grandioides and corpulentoides.
Although the affinities of some of these may have been wrongly estimated, owing to imperfection of the specimens, still a portion of them unquestionably bears out the relationships affirmed by Dr. Lea.
The majority of these species foreign to the modern Atlantic drainage have their living allies in, or are identical with, species of the Great Lake system, extending also into the northern Mississippi drainage in which, moreover, they are better developed.
Still, the characteristic Mississippi Kiver types of Unionidce are not represented in the Fish-house fauna.
None of the triangular or round Unios with heavy teeth are found ; no member of the great tuberculate or plicate groups occur.
The Fish-house fauna is therefore to be assimilated rather with the Great Lake system than with the Mississippi or Ohio drainages.
The species probably found their way into the Atlantic system in New York State, where the Lake and Atlantic waters are in close proximity.
They may then have become extinct on the Atlantic slope during the glacial period when the rivers north of Delaware Bay wex'e so profoundly affected.'
Summary.
— The writer has attempted to show (1) that the Fishhouse clay is a Pleistocene deposit, as held by Lewis, White and some others, not belonging to the Cretaceous or Tertiary as Lea, Whitfield and other geologists have claimed; (2) that it is either interglacial or preglacial, and probably the latter ; (3) that it is purely local and fluviatile ; and (4) that the structure of the sand underlying the clay, now first made known, gives a clue to the true explanation of the several geologic features of the deposit.
The position of this deposit in the post-Pliocene series is one of some difficulty, but materials bearing upon the question are not wanting.
We know that the immediately post-glacial mollusk fauna of New Jersey was similar to the modern, except that it contained forms of more northern distribution ; but there were no distinctively trans-AUeghenian types such as the Fish-house beds contain.
* The very difl^erent character of the latter fauna would therefore indicate an earlier period.
It was therefore either interglacial or preglacial, and the divergence of a part of the species from the most allied living forms, as well as the fact that the fauna was an abundant one, composed of large and well-developed individuals, point rather to preglacial than to interglacial conditions. '
Those interested in the former distribution eastward of the trans-AUeghenian Unionidse should consult Simpson, On some Fossil Unios from the Drift at Toronto, Canada.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XVI, p. 591.
* White Pond, in Sussex Co., N. J , a typically glacial lake, furnishes abundant evidence in support of the above statement, and also shows the changes which have taken place from post glacial to recent times in the mollusk fauna.
This evidence the writer proposes to publish as soon as engagements permit.
The following annual reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee : — REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The average attendance at the meetings of the Academy during the past year, from December 1, 1895, to November 30, 1896, was forty.
Verbal communications were made by Messrs. Woolman, Goldsmith, Rand, Mercer, Brinton, Sharp, Vaux, Heilprin, Cope, Chapman, Allen, Pilsbry, Carter, Keeley, Lyman, Holman,Sangree, Egbert, Sommerville, Dixon, Leeds, Stokes, Campbell, Wistar, A. P. Brown, Willcox, Frazer, Morris, Skinner, A. E. Brown, Rothermel, Henry, Leonard, Morsell, Dolley, A. D. Smith, Rhoads, Stone, Fox, Reese, Ball, Horn, McCook, Seiss, Calvert, Balch, Hamilton, Richardson and Miss Bascom.
Those that were reported by their authors were published in the Proceedings.
Six hundred and nine pages of the Proceedings, illustrated by 23 plates, and 297 pages of the Journal, with 53 plates, forming Parts III and IV of the tenth volume, have been issued.
We are indebted to Mr. Clarence B. Moore for the illustrations of both numbers.
The publication of the MmiMal of Conchology has been continued by the Conchological Section.
During the year Parts 63, 64 and 64a of the 1st Series (Marine Univalves), and Parts 39 and 40 of the 2d Series (Pulmonata) have been issued.
The former consists of 157 pages illustrated by 44 plates, and the latter 121 pages illustrated by 27 plates.
The first parts of Vols.
XVII and XI respectively of the two series are now in press.
The expense of publication of the Manual, copiously illustrated as it is with colored plates, is so great that the Section would be unable to continue it were it not for the support received from conchologists throughout the world.
The Entomological Section and the American Entomological Society have published, during the same period, 288 pages and 7 plates of the Entomological News and 386 pages and 11 plates of the Transactions.
This makes a total of 1,858 pages and 165 plates issued under the auspices of the Academy since the first of last December.
Forty papers have been presented for publication, as follows: — H. A. Pilsbry, 5 ; Harrison Allen, M. D., 3 ; Samuel N. Rhoads, 3 ; Edw.
D. Cope, 3 ; Ida A. Keller, 2 ; Wm.
J.
Fox, 2 ; R. W. Shu572 PBOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMT OF [1896. feldt, M. D., 2 ; H. A. Pilsbrv and E. G. Vanatta, 2 ; E. L. Green, 1 ; Witmer Stone, 1 ; Theo.
Holm.
1 ; Thomas Meehan, 1 ; Amos P. Brown, ] ; O. F. Cook, 1 ; J. C. Hartzell, Jr., 1 ; Fredk.
P. Henry, M. D., 1 ; Chas.
S. DoUey, M. D., 1 ; Frank C. Baker, 1 ; Cloudesley Rutter, 1 ; D. S. Jordan and Cloudesley Butter, 1 ; Wm.
H. Dall, 1 ; J.
B. Ellis and B. M. Everhart, 1 ; GUbert D. Harris, 1 ; S. K Rhoads and H. A. Pilsbrv, 1 ; Charles Morris, 1 ; Edw.
S. Balch, 1.
Four of these have been returned to the authors, two have been withdrawn, four are held for publication next year, and the others have been issued in the current volume of the Proceedings.
In view of the occasional appearance in newspapers of communications offered to the Academy, on the recommendation of the Publication Committee a resolution was adopted declining to print papers of which more than a brief abstract had appeared elsewhere than in the publications of the society.
Thirty-five members and two correspondents have been elected.
The deaths of thirteen members and ten correspondents have been reported, and the resignations of ten members have been accepted, as follows : S. Emlen Meigs, Annesley R. Govett, Eugene Delano, John C. Sims, Jos.
C. Harrison, Francis B. Reeves, Theo.
Presser, James Y. McAllister, Frank T. Patterson and Adele M. Fielde, leaving a gain of twelve members during the year.
The contributors to the Building Fund having made their final report setting forth the completion of the new lecture-hall and museum building, the expenditure of the fund and the discontinuance of the organization, the action was approved by the Academy and the Recording Secretarv was authorized to receive all the books, paper?
and other assets of said contributors, and of the Board of Trustees established by them.
The resignation of Dr. Dixon as Professor of Histology and Microscopic Technology, presented in consequence of a press of official duties, was accepted January 28.
Dr. Henry Skinner was elected Professor in the Department of Insecta, March 21.
General Isaac J. Wistar was appointed the representative of the Academy at the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of Lord Kelvin's tenure of office as Professor in the University of Glasgow.
Prof Angelo Heilprin representee!
the Society at the Alining and Geological Millenial Congress at Buda Pest.
Dr. Persifor Frazer was appointed to represent the Academy at the .Seventh Session of the International Geological Congress.
In response to an invitation, Dr. Charles S. Dollev was requested to contribute to the proceedings of the Congres International de Peches Maritimes at Ville des Sables d' Olonne.
The report of the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award conferring the recognition for 1S96 on Prof. Giovanni Capellini, having been adopted, the medal and interest on the fund were forwarded to the distinguished geologist through the Italian Consul, and their receipt has been duly acknowledged.
An important addition to the educational facilities of the Academy was formally provided for by the adoption of the following resolution, June 30 : — Resolved, That the Committee on Instruction and Lectures of the Academy be authorized to cooperate with the Ludwick Institute in the delivery of free courses of lectures on the natural sciences, primarily to the teachers in schools, and that the Academy expresses its satisfaction with the plan proposed by the Institute for the advancement of public education.
A resolution was adopted December 24, 1895, empowering the President to designate annually two members of the Academy to the electors of the Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology to serve as manaorers of the Institute under the deed of endowment until their successors shall have been appointed.
A resolution urging the Commissioner of City Property to take timely measures for the extermination of the tussock moth from squares and city trees was adopted, and the subject referred to a committee of entomologists who drew up and submitted to the Commissioner a set of suggestions which, if carried out.
would undoubtedly eflect the very desirable object contemplated.
The Academy's attention having been called to a bill before Congress for the prevention of vivisection, a series of resolutions prepared by a Committee consisting of Messrs.
Cope, Sharp and H. F. Moore, deprecating its adoption, was ordered to be sent to "Washington as an expression of the Academy's views on the subject.
The fourth Tuesday of each month has been assigned to the Anthropological Section for cooperation with the meetings of the Academy.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Edw.
J. XOLAN, Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
The Corresponding Secretary respectfully reports that during the past year, commencing December 1, 1895, there have been received from eighty-seven societies, museums, libraries, etc., one hundred and eighty-two acknowledgements of the receipt of the publications of the Academy ; and from forty-five societies, libraries, etc., fiftyseven notices that their publications have been forwarded to the Academy, together with eighteen applications to exchange publications for Reports, Proceedings, etc., and asking for missing numbers of the publications of the Academy.
Twenty-five letters on various subjects have been received, and twenty-six written.
Twenty-one circulars and invitations extended to tlie Academy to participate in Congresses or meetings, and announcements of the deaths of scientific men have been received and, when necessary, acknowledged.
During the year two correspondents have been elected and notified.
The deaths of the following correspondents have been reported : — M. S. Bebb, of Rockford, Illinois, elected in 1881, died December 5, 1895.
Don Antonio del Castillo, of Mexico, elected 1874, died October 27, 1895.
Prof. Gabriel Auguste Daubree, of Paris, France, elected 1884, died May 29, 1896.
George Edward Dobson, of London, England, elected 1884, died November 26, 1895.
Prof. Alexander Henry Green, of Oxford, England, elected 1877, died August 19, 1896.
Dr. Juan Gundlach, of Havana, Cuba, elected 1867, died March, 1896.
Sir Ferdinand von Mueller, of Melbourne, Victoria, elected 1876, died October 9, 1896.
Auguste Salle, of Paris, France, elected 1888, died May 5, 1896.
Charles Wachsmuth, of Burlington, Iowa, elected 1886, died February 7, 1896.
Prof. Josiah D wight Whitney, of Boston, Mass., elected 1852, died August 19, 1896.
Seven hundred and fifty-eight acknowledgements for gifts to the library and eighty-three for gifts to the museum have been forwarded.
Respectfully submitted, Benj.
Sharp, Corresponding Secretary.
.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
575 The additions to the library of the Academy since the last of November, 1895, have numbered 5,372, of which 4,357 are pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 985 volumes, 22 maps and 8 photographs.
They have been received from the following sources : — Societies, I. V. William som Fund Editors, Authors, U. S. Dept.
of Agriculture J.
A. Meigs Fund, .
.
U. S. Dept.
of the Interior PennsylvaniaState Library Geological Surv.
of Sweden Charles P. Perot, .
.
H. A. Pilsbry, .
.
.
Wilson Fund, .
.
.
Comite Geologique Russe Ministry of Public Works France, Thomas Meehan, U. S. Dept.
of State, .
East Indian Government Geological Surv.
of Canada Trustees of British Museum U. S. Dept.
of Labor, General Appropriation Geological Survey of India Tennessee State Board Health, Department of Mines, New South Wales, .
.
Stewart Culin, ... U. S. Treas.
Department, Cal.
State Mining Bureau Geological Survey of Mis souri, U. S. Fish Commission, Benjamin Sharp, Bentham Trustees, Kew Garden, 2,399 1,140 1,084 166 112 62 45 44 35 34 33 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 10 7 7 7 of 7 6 6 4 4 4 3 Conchological Section of the Academy, .
.
.
Chas.
E. Smith, .
.
.
Department of Agriculture Victoria, .... Geological Comm.
Mexico Geological Survey of Ala bama, Geological Survey of New Jersey, Henry C. Chapman, Rev.
Francis Barnum, Secretary of State, Mexico Secretary of Works, Mex.
U. S. War Department, William E. Meehan, .
Wm.
J.
Fox, .... Messrs. Appleton & Co. , Messrs. C. E. Howe & Co. Cochin Government, .
F. M. Comstock, .
.
Department of Mines Nova Scotia, .
.
Geological and Natural History Survey, Minn. Geological Survey of Iowa Geological Survey of Mis souri, Geological Survey of Penn sylvania, .... Geological Survey of Rou mania, Mrs. John Gilbert, .
.
Guy Hinsdale, .
.
.
Angelo Heilprin, .
, Harold Wingate, .
3 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 576 [1896.
Illinois State Board of Agriculture, Benj.
S. Lyman, .
.
.
Cyrus H. JNIcCormack, Maryland State Weather Service, Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture, J. C. Morgan, .... Metropolitan Park Commission, Massachusetts, 1 1 1 Minister of Education, Ontario, 1 Edw.
J. Nolan, .
.
, .
1 South African Government, 1 Geological Survey of Portugal, 1 U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, 1 W. H. Harned, .... 1 These accessions were distributed to the several departments of the library, as follows : — Journals, 4,420 Geology, 187 Botany, 155 General Natural History, .
127 Agriculture, 73 Anthropology, .... 43 Voyages and Travels, .
.
38 Anatomy and Phj'siology, 37 Entomology, 37 Conchology, 33 Encj^clopedias, .... 31 Mammalogy, 28 Ornithology, .
Mineralogy, .
Physical Science Geography, .
Ichthyology, .
Medicine, .
Helmintliolog}', Herpetology, .
Bibliography, Chemistry, Miscellaneous, 26 25 21 13 13 9 8 7 5 4 69 As heretofore, all additions have been promptly catalogued and placed for use, the geographical arrangement of periodicals being still retained, although the crowded condition of many of the cases makes it difficult to preserve the classification, and, for the convenience of the student, it is proposed to arrange the journals devoted to special subjects in connection with the special departments of the library.
A number of new cases are being prepared which will partly occupy space gained by the removal of tlie stock of the Academy's Proceedings and Journal to a storage-room in the basement of the new building, thus giving an opportunity for some contemplated improvements in classification.
A shelf list of the general Meigs library is nearly completed, and a card catalogue of the portions arranged in connection with the special departments of the Academy's library is proceeding as rapidly as our very scant clerical assistance will permit.
Six hundred and forty-nine volumes have been bound and sixtynine are now in the hands of the binders.
This does not half complete the work on the accumulation of unbound journals, and a much more liberal appropriation than the Academy is at present able to make is necessary to place the remainder of this most important section of the library in good working condition.
Renewed effort has been made, as the several sets of journals have been prepared for the bindery, to obtain a supply of deficiencies.
In many cases the replies to applications have been gratifyingly liberal, special acknowledgment being due, in this connection, to the Imperial Academy of Science of St. Petersburg, from which 170 volumes, extending back to 1726, and not heretofore in the library of the Academy, have been received.
Important additions have been made to the collection of lantern slides, the formation of which was noted last year.
Dr. Charles Schaeffer has given 163 ; Dr. Benjamin Sharp, 36 ; Wm.
Stevenson, 12 ; Silas L. Schumo, 3 ; while 26 were purchased, making the entire collection 566.
We are indebted to Mr. William E. Haydock for a fine crayon portrait of Mr. John G. Meigs, whose legacy to the Academy was recorded in my last annual report.
On retiring from the Presidency at the expiration of his four years of office.
General Isaac J. Wistar contributed his portrait in oil, by Vonnah, to the gallery of Presidents, thus completing a collection of much value and interest.
I am glad to again acknowledge the efficient services of my assistant, Mr. William J.
Fox.
Edw.
J. Nolan, Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The year just passed is especially noteworthy in the history of the Academy on account of the opening of the new museum building to the public.
It has been impossible to prepare the entire building for exhibition this year ; yet it was considered desirable to open a portion of it to the public without further delay, and, in accordance with this plan, the first and second floors, comprising the departments of Mineralogy, Archaeology and Mammalogy, were formally opened October 20th with appropriate ceremony.
Much time has necessarily been consumed in arranging and labelling the collections in their new quarters.
In addition to the Wm.
S. Vaux Collections, representing Mineralogy and Archaeology, and the Clarence B. Moore Archseological Collection, which were arranged on the first floor of the new building during the present year, all the other archaeological material has been arranged in new cases procured for its reception, the majority of them uniform with those containing the Moore Collection.
Prof. F. W. Putnam, of Cambridge, devoted some days to helping us in the general arrangement and classification of the collections, after which they were finally placed and labelled.
The Peruvian and Egyptian mummies were also arranged in new cases and displayed on this floor.
The entire collection of mammals was transferred from the old building to the second floor of the new museum, the old cases being necessarily retained in use until new and more suitable ones can be substituted.
The series of mounted mammals is now displayed in a thoroughly systematic manner and carefully labelled, with the families and orders indicated in each case, an arrangement that was quite impossible in the former crowded galleries.
Many recently mounted specimens have been exhibited for the first time, and a number of badly mounted duplicate specimens have been removed from the cases to the study-collection of skins.
Other poorly mounted specimens are being removed as fast as new and better examples can be obtained.
In this way the inferior work of the old time taxidermists is being rapidly replaced by the life-like mounts that characterize the modern art.
The large collection of mammalian osteological material, which was formerly so crowded as to render it inaccessible, has been carefully arranged in storage-cases on the first floor of the new museum, where it can be consulted with great convenience, while an exhibition series, comprising skulls or articulated skeletons of the principal types, is exhibited on the mammalogical floor.
The large Baleen,' optera skeleton has been placed along the eastern end of this floor and the smaller whale skeletons from the old building mounted and placed near by.
Notwithstanding the time required to prepare the new building for exhibition, the work accomplished in other departments has been considerable.
The removal of so much material from the old building has made it possible to arrange the cases containing thepalseontological collections to much better advantage, while the vacant space under the south gallery has been partitioned off uniform with the Entomological room, to furnish apartments for the Biological and Geological Sections.
Two additional commodious rooms have been fitted up for the Botanical Section on the library floor.
During the year the cataloguing of the mineral collection has been continued, and a series of minerals from Pennsylvania and New Jersey selected from the general exhibit, has been arranged in the department of local natural history.
Work on the invertebrate fossils has been mainly confined to the Lea Eocene Collection.
Through the liberality of the Rev.
L. T. Chamberlain, D. D. a third fine case has been procured for the display of the collection, and Mr. C. W. Johnson has been enabled to spend much time in arranging and labelling the specimens and in carrying on valuable exchanges, besides making a short trip to the« Potomac Valley, where a large collection was made.
In the Department of Vertebrate Palaeontology a valuable addition has been made to the museum by the final arrangement and labelling of the Port Kennedy Collection.
Work at the cave has been actively and successfully pushed forward during the year by Dr. Dixon and Mr. H. C. Mercer.
Great progress has also been made in cataloguing and renovating the collection of birds, so that this work is rapidly nearing completion.
Many valuable additions have also been received, especially to the Delaware Valley Ornithological Collection of local birds, the increase of which has necessitated the addition of a new plate-glass case for its accommodation.
Further particulars of Avork in this department will be found in the report of the Ornithological Section.
In other departments the work has been mainly restricted to cataloguing and arranging the large additions received during the year, and looking after the general condition of the specimens, which is now excellent.
The additions to the museum during the year have been noteworthy.
One of the most important of these is the archseological and zoological material obtained by Dr. Benjamin Sharp during a cruise along the coast and among the islands of Alaska and Siberia in the U. S. Revenue Cutter " Bear," during the year 1895.
Besides fine series of native implements, there are valuable collections of mollusks and birds, and a Pacific walrus ; also three fur seals, which now make one of the most attractive groups in the mu38 seum.
Another, and one of the most valuable accessions, is a series of mammals, birds, fishes and reptiles collected in Somali-laud by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith on his expedition through that country.
Valuable collections of birds, mollusks and plants were likewise obtained for the Academy by Mr. George Russell in British Guiana.
Another important addition is the collection of marine invertebrates prepared in formaline by our preparateur, Mr. F. W. Walmsley.
Many other donations have been received, special mention of which will be found in the appended list of accessions, including a number of rare specimens from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia.
The various collections under the care of special conservators have received careful attention during the year, and to the gentlemen who have rendered this important service the Curators would express their indebtedness — to Messrs. Thomas Meehan and Stewardson Brown of the Botanical Section ; Dr. Henry Skinner of the Entomological Section, and William W. Jefferis, Curator of the Wm.
S. Vaux Collections.
Valuable assistance has also been rendered in various departments of the museum by the students of the Jessup Fund : Miss Helen Higgins, Miss Jennie Letson, Messrs. H. W. Fowler, William J. Gerhard, E. G. Vanatta and S. H. Hamilton.
Henry C. Chapman, Chairman of the Curators.
REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
The Section has held the usual number of meetings during the past year, and the attendance has been up to the average.
Connuunications pertaining to the subject of the Section, have been made at each meeting and usually specimens have been exhibited under the microscope.
The cabinet has been enriched by 158 botanical slides, principally fungi, belonging to the late Dr. Rex and presented by his sister through Mr. Wingate.
The microscope of the late Dr. Wm.
Hunt, and forty slides, were given by his widow.
A room on the second floor of the Academy has been fitted up by the Section and will soon be ready for occupancy.
Aquariums and work tables will be at the disposal of the members, and it is hoped will be used for scientific investigation.
The oflicers of the Section are as follows : — Director, ViceDirector, Treasurer, Conservator, .
Corresponding Secretary, Recorder, J. Cheston Morris, M. D. John C. Wilson, Chas.
P. Perot.
F. J. Keely.
John G. Rothermel.
M. V. Ball.
M. V. Ball, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The arrangement of the conchological collection remains substantially as reported last year, want of space preventing the progress of the systematic rearrangement in the exhibition cases of the families of mollusks studied and relabelled during the year, in connection with the monographic work in the Manual of Conchology.
The remainder of the Tectibranch gastropods, including the Aplysiidce, Pleurohranchidce and Umbraculidce, and of the land mollusks a considerable Tpavt of the Bulimulidce, have been revised and prepared for arrangement in the cases.
The genus Cerion has been studied by Mr. Vanatta and the Conservator, and the collection relabelled and arranged according to a complete catalogue of the species published in the Proceedings of the Academy.
It is gratifying to state that out of seventy described species of Cerion we are in possession of all but seven, and have extensive series of most of the species.
A portion of the American Slugs have been studied, and large additions to the collection made ; partial results being given in a paper published by the Academy, the greater part of this work being due to Mr. Vanatta's industry.
A considerable collection of mollusks from Uruguay and adjacent regions has been received from Dr. Wm.
H. Rush, U. S. N., comprising many species new to the collection, and about twenty new to science.
A valuable collection of Alaskan mollusks, made by Dr. Benj.
Sharp, has been presented to the Academy, but not yet wholly determined.
The remainder of Prof. Heilpriu's Bermuda collection has been placed in the cases, and with what we already had, forms probably the most extensive series of Bermuda mollusks in any museum.
The additions to our series of American molkisks have been very numerous, the most extensive accessions being Mr. S. N. Ehoads, collection of Tennessee shells, the series collected by Mr. C. W. Johnson and the Conservator in Florida in 1894, and a collection of marine forms from Pugefc Sound, which we owe to the Young Naturalist's Society of Seattle, Washington ; also, a large series of the recent and post-tertiary mollusks of White Pond, New-Jersey, collected by Mr. Rhoads and the Conservator.
Eighty-three persons, a list of whom is given in the record of additions to the Museum,' have contributed smaller numbers of mollusks to the collection.
The Conchological Section and the Academy have purchased 291 species new to the collection during the year.
The Officers of the Section are as follows : — Director, Benjamin Sharp, M. D. ViceDirector, Recorder and Librarian, Correspo7iding Secretary, Treasurer, .
John Ford.
.
Edw.
J. Nolan, M. D. .
Chas.
W. Johnson.
.
S. Raymond Roberts.
Henry A. Pilsbry, Conservator.
REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Section moved into the apartments provided by the Academy, which it now occupies, February 27, 1895, and immediately thereafter work was commenced on the rearrangement of the collections and library.
Owing to the crowded condition of the old rooms, it was impossible to attempt any proper arrangement, but, at the present time, all our possessions are in a very satisfactory condition, and can be properly studied and used to advantage.
The members of the Section now feel that they are in a position to do good work, as they have the space for growth of the collections and library, and an incentive to advance.
There has, undoubtedly, been a greatly increased interest in our study among the members of the Section which is likely to continue.
During the past year important additions have been made to the cabinet.
Many species have been presented to the display collection representing the fauna of Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey.
The meetings have been well attended, the smallest number of persons present at anymeeting being eleven, and the largest seventeen.
The scientific communications have been of interest and of practical value in the advancement of entomology.
At the annual meeting, held December 17th, the following were elected officers to serve during the coming year: — Director, George H. Horn.
ViceDirector, Treasurer, Co7iservator anH Recorder, Secretary, Publication Committee, .
C. S. Welles.
C. T. Cresson.
Henry Skinner.
W. J.
Fox.
C. W. Johnson.
J. H. Ridings.
Henry Skinner, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. '
The Director of the Botanical Section respectfully reports that this department of the Academy is in a prosperous condition.
It is free from debt, and has a small surplus in its treasury.
Meetings have been held regularly at stated times when many matters of importance to botanical science were brought forward and discussed.
The progress and needs of the herbarium are well set forth in the statement of the Conservator, Mr. Stewardson Brown, which is submitted as a part of this report.
It is hoped that the Redfield Memorial Herbarium Fund, efforts to enlarge which from outside sources have been held in abeyance the past year, may soon be increased.
The income from this should be immediately available to aid in securing additional collections, while the principal sum is growing so as to secure the essential services of a Curator.
The voluntary labors of Messrs. Crawford, Beringer, Brown and Meehan, in arranging the herbarium and preparing the specimens for fastening down, have been continuous the past two years.
It will take some five or six years, at the same rate of proceeding, to complete the task, even if no additions were made to the collection.
It is a question whether it is wise to depend greatly on this assistance, and it is earnestly hoped that the Redfield Herbarium Memorial Fund may secure the active interest of the Academy.
The officers for the ensuing year are : — Director, Thomas Meehan.
Vice-Director, Charles E. Smith.
Conservator and Treasurer, .
.
.
Stewardson Brown.
Recorder, ...... Chas.
Schiiffer, M. D. Corresponding Secretary, .
.
.Jos.
Crawford.
Thomas Meehan, • Director.
In presenting this report for the year your Conservator is glad to be able to announce that the work of permanently mounting the general herbarium has been carried on steadily, and is completed nearly to the end of the Compositse, which should be a matter of congratulation to all those interested in this very important work.
Such an advance has been made possible through the untiring efforts of the Director of the Section, Mr. Thomas Meehan, who has devoted a large amount of his time to the work during the past year.
In this connection the Conservator wishes to acknowledge the services of the Assistant in the herbarium, Mrs. E. F. Hochgesang, who has rendered most valuable aid in mounting and redistributing the plants, fully ten thousand sheets having been handled during the year.
In additions this year has not been behind former ones, as 2,450 species and varieties have been added to the herbarium, of which 803 are lower Cryptogams and 1,647 Phanerogams and Ferns.
They are distributed as follows : North America, 1,500 ; Tropical x\merica, 299 ; Asia, 241 ; Australia and Polynesia, 410 — adding about 600 species new to the collection.
Among these may be specially mentioned the following: The unique collection of Myxomycetes, forming tlie herbarium of the late Dr. George A. Rex, comprising some 400 species, and presented to the Academy by his sister ; 500 species of the North American Grasses from the United States Department of Agriculture, through Prof. F. Lamson Scribner ; 150 species of Alaskan and Siberian Plants from Dr. Benj.
Sharp; 90 species of Jamaica Ferns from U. C. Smith ; Centuries 34 and 35 of North American Fungi from Dr. J.
B. Ellis ; 172 species and varieties of Sphagna Boreali-Americana Exsiccata from Mr, George F. Eaton ; 375 species of Hawaiian Island plants, collected in 1895 by Mr, A.
A. Heller, and purchased for the herbarium ; 209 species of Mexican Plants, collected by Prof. G. C. Pringle, and purchased for the herbarium ; and 241 species of Asia Minor Plants, collected by Prof. Bornmiiller, and purchased for the herbarium.
The attention of the Academy is respectfully called to the fact that the 825 species purchased during the past year, were paid for, not from the funds of the Section, but entirely by two of its members.
Many very desirable collections were declined on account of the lack of funds ; this is particularly to be regretted as regards the plants of our own country, in which we are in many cases very deficient.
The creation of a fund for the purchase of such collections is immediately desirable.
Since the last report the Academy has placed at the disposal of the Section two rooms formerly occupied by the Department of Entomology.
The one on the gallery floor has been partially fitted up as a work-room.
The room on the library floor, which it is designed to use for additional herbarium space, has not as yet been occupied to any extent, owing to the lack of funds for furnishing.
Additional cases for the accommodation of the herbarium are, however, an absolute necessity, as the present cases are crowded to an extent that is damaging to the specimens ; it is therefore earnestly hoped, that before the close of the next year, this most pressing need will have been supplied.
Respectfully submitted, Stewardson Brown, Conservator.
REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
Ten meetings of the Section have been held during the year, with an average attendance of ten members.
A notable addition to the facilities of the Section has been the laboratory erected on the first floor of the Museum by contributions from the Section and its individual members and from the Academy.
This removes a serious difficulty under which we have labored, and cannot fail to facilitate its work.
Few additions have been made to the mineral collection of the Academy, except to the local collection, which has been arranged in part and displayed to advantage.
It seems to have attracted the attention of visitors.
It is hoped that this collection may be much increased in the near future, and that we may also have the means of displaying a representation of the rocks of the vicinity of Philadelphia of which the Academy has a fair supply, while there has been promised to the Section for the Academy a very large and nearly complete series.
Although not in the care of the Section, it may not be inopportune to call attention to the William S. Vaux Collection, which is now displayed to advantage in the new building.
The Conservator of the Section holds the same relation to tliis collection, and to him is due much credit for its condition.
As he accepts no salary the entire income of the fund has been applied to the improvement of the collection.
During the year many valuable specimens have been added to it.
The officers of the Section are : — Director, ....... Theo.
D. Rand.
Vice-Director and Conservator, .
.
W. W. Jefferis.
Recorder, ....... Chas.
Schaffer.
Treasurer, ...... John Ford.
Respectfully submitted, Theo.
D. Rand, Director.
REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION.
Owing to the opening of the new museum building and the work which it necessitated in other departments, the Conservator has been able to devote but little personal attention to the ornithological collections.
Under his direction, however, Mr. Henry W. Fowler has carried on the work of cataloguing the collection with such success that quite as much progress has been made as in previous years, while Mr. McCadden, the taxidermist, has been enabled to proceed with the remounting of the exhibition series during several months of the year.
Since the last report, 7,386 mounted specimens have been identified and catalogued, and most of the specimens intended for the exhibition cases remounted, while the types and a part of the du])licate specimens have been unmounted and placed in the study series.
These specimens aggregated 3,192, and all of them have been carefully labeled.
Besides the 7,386 specimens entered on the rough catalogue, 1,980 entries have been copied into the permanent catalogue.
The groups catalogued during the year comprised all the remaining families of the Picon Passeres, except the Trochilidse, together with the Picarise and Scan sores.
The exhibition series of all these families has been remounted except the Coccyges, Psittaci and Trochili, so that it will be an easy matter to complete the renovation of the ornithological collection during the ensuing year.
Owing to the liberality of friends of the Academy, we have been enabled to procure nineteen air-tight cases for the reception of the study series of skins similar to those already in use.
This has enabled us to arrange almost all the unmounted specimens in systematic order in the Section-room where they are easily accessible to the student.
The exhibition series of Passeres, Picarise, etc., has been arranged in order in the large cases in the middle of the ornithological gallery following the Rapacious birds, thus entirely clearing the wall cases, except a few duplicate specimens which are placed there temporarily until they can be unmounted.
The additions to the collection during the year, while not as great numerically as those of the previous year, comprise some exceedingly valuable collections containing many species not before represented.
The most important of these are the Donaldson Smith Collection of African birds from Somali-land, containing duplicates of many of the new species discovered by Dr. Smith, and the collection of Alaskan and Siberian birds obtained by Dr. Benj.
Sharp, which well supplements the five series of the Arctic birds from the north Atlantic already in the Academy's collection.
Other noteworthy accessions were a collection of British Guiana birds obtained through Mr. Russell, and a small collection from Nova Scotia presented by Mr. Robt.
T. Young.
The general condition of the collection is excellent, and the increased facilities for study offered by the new arrangement have been taken advantage of by a number of students, while specimens have been loaned to specialists in various other institutions.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has held its meetings regularly at the Academy, and aided materially in keeping up a lively interest in the Ornithological Department, The collection formed by the Club has steadily increased during the year, and now fills four large cases, one of them a handsome plate-glass case designed as a model for the cases needed for the display of the general ornithological collection in the new building.
As soon as these can be procured, the entire collection of birds can be immediately transferred to its allotted position on the third floor of the new building, as the work of renovation is now practically completed.
At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 21, 1896^ the old board of oflScers was reelected, as follows : — Director, Spencer Trotter, M. D. Vice-Director, Recorder, Secretary, Treasurer and Conservator, Geo.
S. Morris.
Stewardson Brown.
Wm.
A. Shyrock.
Witmer Stone.
Respectfully submitted, Wither Stone, Conservator, REPORT OF THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Anthropological Section has been fully organized during the present year by the adoption of By-Laws and the election of officers in accordance with the requirements of the By-Laws of the Academy.
It has, at present, a membership of thirty-four, and during the year has held eight monthly sessions.
The principal communications received have been from Dr. D. G. Brinton on " The Relations of Race and Culture to the Degeneration of the Reproductive Organs in Woman," and on " Hybridization ; " Dr. Harrison Allen on " The Prenasal Foss£e ; " Prof F. C. Kavanagh on " Right Handedness;" Prof Lightner Witmer on "Psycho-Physical Measurements ; " Dr. M. V. Ball on " Tattooing ; " Dr. Chas.
K. Mills on " Nerves of the Sense of Taste," and by Stewart Culin on "Divinatory Diagrams."
In addition, minor communications were on various subjects.
The officers of the section are as follows : — Director, Harrison Allen, M. D. ViceDirector, .... Dr. Newlin Peirce.
Treasurer and Corresponding Secretary, M. V. Ball, M. D. Recorder and Conservator, .
.
Chas.
Morris.
Charles Morris, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY.
The Professor of Geology respectfully reports that, as in former years, he has delivered the usual course of spring lectures, accompanied by Saturday field excursions.
It is gratifying to be again able to state that the interest in the study of geology, as evidenced by the attendance at the lectures and participation in the excursions, shows no diminution, but the reverse.
In addition to the regular Academy course, a special course of six lectures, introductory to the study of rocks and minerals, was delivered under the auspices of the Ludwick Institute, the attendance at which was significantly large.
In his capacity of Professor of Geology, the undersigned was appointed by the Council and Academy to represent the institution at the Millennial Mining and Geological Congress held at Budapest, Hungary, on September 25th and 26th.
A report of this mission has been presented to the Council.
The report makes reference to a special journey in the north of Africa, where a superficial study was made of the rock formations of the Atlas Mountains, with particular reference to the determination of the existence of glacial phenomena such as had been alleged to be found there.
No evidences of past glaciation could be detected.
As a result of this journey, a fairly extensive and representative collection of fossils was obtained from the Atlas confines of the Sahara ; these, when properly studied and determined, will be placed with the collections of the Academy.
The additions to the Academy's geological collection made during the year have been neither particularly large nor important, the most noteworthy, in the department ot Paleontology, being the animal remains obtained from Port Kennedy, Pa., by Mr. H. C. Mercer.
Respectfully submitted, Angelo Heilprin, Prof, of Geology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND ARCHEOLOGY.
I have the honor to report that, during the year 1896, 1 delivered a course of six lectures, public and gratuitous, on subjects connected with the study of anthropology.
They were well attended and increased the general interest in this branch of science.
The ethnological collections of the Academy have been rearranged and labeled through the attention of the Curator, whose report will supply the information required on that subject.
I have the honor to remain, Daniel G. Brinton, Professor of Ethnology and Archceology.
KEPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that during the past year he has delivered eight lectures, six on " The Action of the Environment Upon Animals," under the auspices of the Ludwick Institute, and two : "A Summer in Alaska and Siberia " and "Alaskan and Siberian Natives," in the Popular Friday Evening Course.
The additions to the Museum have been neither numerous nor important.
A course of ten lectures on " Invertebrate Zoology " will be delivered in January, February and March, in the Ludwick Institute Course, and, during the spring, a lecture on " The Sea and Its Influence on Animal Life," in the Popular Friday Evening Course.
Respectfully submitted, Benj.
Sharp, Professor of Invertebrate Zoology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR IN THE DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSCA.
The Professor in the Department of Mollusca respectfully reports that during the year he delivered a course of five lectures upon the morphology of Mollusca and two upon " Economic Uses of Mollusca" and " Mollusks of the Atlantic Coast."
In the Museum considerable progress has been made in the revision of the land mollusks, and many additions to the collection have been received as noted in the report of the Conchological Section.
Respectfully submitted, Henry A. Pilsbry, Prof, of Malacology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR IN THE DEPARTMENT OF INSECTA.
Having been elected to the Professorship of the Department of Insecta on the thirtieth day of March, 1895, I have the honor to submit this, my first report.
Some idea of the field covered in this department may be derived from the fact that we have about ded as follows : — 33,600 specimens.
43,800 specimens.
36,240 specimens.
2,400 specimens.
126,000 specimens in the collection, div Lepidoptera, .... Coleoptera, .... Hymenoptera, Neuroptera, .... Diptera, ~\ Hemiptera, |10,000 specimens.
Orthoptera, 3 These collections are believed to be in a better state of arrangement and preservation than ever before, and museum pests have been almost annihilated.
The Conservator of the Entomological Section has been greatly aided by members interested in the several orders, and much valuable work has been done by them in the departments in which they make special studies.
It is hoped that the fine collection of local insects will soon be completed by the aid of the Feldman Collecting Social of Philadelphia and individual members.
The department needs new cases to replace the older ones that are not absolutely safe, and, in the future, metal cases, which can be practically hermetically sealed against dust and pests, should be secured.
A course of five lectures has been delivered covering the general subject, including the classification, anatomy, orders, technic, and economic or practical entomology.
Respectfully submitted, Henry Skinner.
REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WM.
S. VAUX COLLECTIONS.
The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections reports that during the year there have been added to the mineralogical cabinet, by purchase, 185 specimens.
A nugget of native gold from Alaska was presented by C. B. Moore, bringing the number of specimens in the collection, November 30, 1896, to 7,966.
Several of the specimens thus added are new to the collection.
Attention is especially called to a superb crystal of green tourmaline with pink terminations.
It is probably the finest specimen yet found at Haddam, Conn.
The collection is in good order.
No addition has been made to the archseological section.
Respectfully submitted, Wm.
W. Jefferis, Curator.
1896.]
593 The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Finance Committee to serve during 1897, was held with the following result : — President, Vice-Presidents, Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer, Librarian, Curators, Councillors to serve three years, Finance Committee, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. Thomas Meehan.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D. Edward J. Nolan, M. D. Benjamin Sharp, M. D. George Vaux, Jr. Edward J. Nolan, M. D. Henry A. Pilsbry.
Henry C. Chapman, M. D. Arthur Erwin Brown.
Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. Thomas A. Robinson.
Harrison Allen, M. D. Chas.
Morris.
Isaac J. Wistar.
Charles Morris.
Chas.
E. Smith.
Uselma C. Smith.
William Sellers.
Charles P. Perot.
