DATA OBTAINED BY DR. G. BAUR IN THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS.
BY WILLIAM HEALEY DALL.
INTRODUCTORY.
The Galapagos Islands lying under the equator about 90 west of Greenwich comprise two principal groups separated by nearly 1200 fathoms of water.
One of these groups northwest of the other contains only Culpepper 550 ft. and Wenraan 830 ft. elevation Islands and a few insignificant rocks.
Culpepper owing to its small elevation is nearly barren while Wenman shows on its upper surface a thin coating of grass and other vegetation.
From neither of these has any collection been made or is any land shell known.
The main group of the Galapagos rests on an elevation of the sea bottom included within the 1000 fathom line.
It may be provisionally divided into three groups a southeastern a central and a northeastern in all about a dozen islands and some smaller islets and rocks.
The southeastern group comprises Charles Chatham Hood and Barrington Islands.
Hood is destitute of water in the dry season and green only in the wet season owing to its small elevation which does not bring it into the region of condensing clouds.
Much of the surface is covered with blocks of lava.
Chatham and Charles are among the most fertile islands of the group.
The central islands include the largest of the whole Albemarle which appears to consist of several primitive islands united by low areas of volcanic material  Narborough which exhibited volcanic activity as lately as 1836  James  Indefatigable and the much smaller Duncan Island besides a number of islets.
The northeastern group comprises three comparatively small islands Abingdon Biudloe and Tower.
The floral characteristics of the Galapagos have been mentioned by Darwin fully discussed by Hooker and well described by Wolf while Tanner Baur and Agassiz have added the facts gathered by later explorations.
I shall therefore merely briefly suoimarize the characteristics which these writers have noted.
The vegetation of the islands appears to be divided into three distinguishable zones.
Near the sealevel the basaltic or tufaceous volcanic rocks of which the islands are exclusively composed appear almost devoid of plants especially in the dry season except dry grayishwhite apparently dead brushwood which grows thickly between the blocks of ash and lava and which on close inspection exhibits inconspicuous small leaves and flowers.
The most common according to Wolf and Agassiz are a Verbena bush and an Acacia with an occasional tree known as the Palo Santo.
Near the beaches are a few species of salt loving plants probably all identical with forms also known from similar localities on the mainland.
Cacti Opuntia and Cereus are found among the blocks of lava where nothing else grows.
This zone extends to a height of 8001000 feet the rains in general being limited even during the rainy season February or later to July to the higher levels above 500600 feet.
The change to the second zone is sometimes very abrupt but on the leeward side of the islands the arid region extends higher than on the southern side from which the moisturebearing winds come.
The second zone is green and wooded the Acacia and Palo Santo increase in size the Verbena disappears and the region shows numerous open grassy spaces.
The volcanic rocks under the influence of moisture have become decomposed into a soft reddish earth.
The last and highest region is bare of trees having the aspect of an undulating plateau covered with a rather coarse grass Avhich extends to the highest summits of many of the islands.
Here even in the dry season there is a more or less constant deposition of moisture from the mists which sweep over the islands.
However both above and below on several of the islands extremely barren localities or areas occur of strangely desolate aspect  in some instances the arboreal vegetation of the second zone is supplemented at the sealevel by thickets of mangroves or other shrubby trees so that there is among the island floras no absolute rule without an exception or two.
The sea currents about the islands and between them and the mainland are very complicated.
In a general way it may be said that two currents converge upon the islands one from an eastnorth EinBesuch der Galapagos Insein mit drel Kiirtchen 1870.
 General sketch of the expedition of the Albatross Feb. May 1891  Bull.
M. C.
Zool. XXIII No.
1.
1892. easterly direction from tbe Gulf of Panama and another from a southeasterly direction from the Peruvian coast.
Both are strong currents both have doubtless contributed their aid in populating the Galapagos but in this the Panama current seems to have predominated not only because it has a shorter traverse but because around the Gulf of Panama and on the banks of the rivers falling into it a luxuriant fauna and flora are found close to the sea while along the Peruvian coast only in time of freshet could any large quantity of debris be expected to reach the waters of the current owing to the aridity of the immediate shores.
The two currents join forces at some distance eastward from the islands and pour through the passages between them with considerable force.
Professor Alexander Agassiz has shown how much terrigenous material the Panama current bears and that there is no reason to doubt that trees still bearing leaves and with some of their branches above water might be carried from the Gulf and cast upon the islands and that at least during the rainy season and in favorable years there would be opportunities for animals so carried especially land shells glued by the epiphragm to the bark of branches to gain vegetation on the shores where they could support life and propagate their kind.
Though unproven yet there can be little doubt that in this way the land mollusk fauna of the islands was introduced and preserved. The first explorer of the Galapagos Islands for land shells was Hugh Cuming about 1830 who collected Bidimuhcs nux Brod. B. utsiulatus Sby. and B.
unifasciatiisShj. on Charles Island  B. rugiferus Hve. B. calvus Sby. and B. jacobi Sby. on James Island  while from his collection at a later time were described B. eschariferus Sby. B. rugulosus Sby. B. verrucosus Vfr. B. nucula Pfr. and B. galapaganus Pfr. without definite reference to a particular island.
Assuming that the last three mentioned were collected by Cuming and not obtained from later collectors this comprises eleven species.
The next collection was made by Darwin in 1835 who obtained Buliviulus Daru'ini Pfr. B. sculpturatus Pfr. a Helix not named or subsequently reported for over half a century but perhaps Trochomorpha Bauri and thirteen other species not specified at the time as well as a  Paludina  probably an Amnicola which has ' Attention has already been called to these facts by Dr. Stearns but in order to make the present discussion complete I have been obliged to restate them briefly here.
never been described or found since.
Reeve mentions that Darwin collected Bulimulus riigulosus on Chatham Island but this is the only species of Darwin's which I have been able to find in print referred to any particular island.
Darwin says in his journal Chapter XVII  Of land shells I collected sixteen kinds and two marked varieties of Avhich with the exception of one Helix found at Tahiti all are peculiar to this archipelago.
A single fresh water shell Paludina is common to Tahiti and Van Diemen's Land With the much closer drawn specific lines of the present day it is probable that both the  Helix  and  Paludlna  would be discriminated as distinct from their allies mentioned by Darwin.
A part at least of Darwin's Galapagos shells went into the Cumingian collection but I have been unable to discover any trace of the remainder which were probably scattered.
The next recorded expedition to touch at the islands and bring back land shells was that of Kellett and Wood in 1846.
The collection was worked up by Professor Edward Forbes who reports seven species from Chatham Island namely Bulhmdus nux calvus eschariferus unijasciatus and rugulosus already known and B. clievinitzioides and achatellinus Fbs. which he described as new.
Subsequently whalers and sealers frequently touched at the islands either for water or other necessaries and a certain number of land shells reached Europe from the Galapagos Islands without positive data in regard to their origin and have been described by various authors.
Of these Bulimulus asperatus Albers B. incrassatus Ffr. B. nuciformis Petit B. amastroides Ancey and several varieties of riigulosus and eschariferus may be mentioned.
In later years collections have been made by Dr. Simon Habel in 1868 who added one new species Bidimulus Habeli Stearns to the fauna of Chatham Island and collected B. chemnitzioides at Chatham B. Darivini at Bindloe and B. achatellinus at Hood Island.
He also collected Atiricula stagnalis Petit and Pedipes angulatus C. B. Adams at Bindloe  Melampus trilineatus C. B. Adams Tralia panamensis C. B. Adams at Hood  Willia7nia pelfoides Dall and Onchidella Steindaehneri Semper all new to the fauna.
In 1872 the U. S. S. Hassler with the Agassiz party on board spent ten days among the islands but no list of the species collected has been published.
In 1875 Dr. Theodor Wolf geologist of Ecuador visited the islands and collected a few land shells subsequently described by P. Reibisch in 1892 as will be more particularly discussed later.
Dr. AVolf obtained the following species mostly represented by a small number of individuals and too often in an imperfect state of preservation.
From Charles Island B. tmifasciatus nucula asperatus mix nudformis iishdatus and calvus known forms and B. invalidus venustus cinereus and nudus described by Reibisch as new.
From Chatham Island among known species Wolf found B. incrassatus rugulosus achatellmus chemniizioides Succmea Bettii and the following supposed to be new B. terebra ventrosus var. acutus curtus lima canaliferus Leptinaria cymatoferus Helidna Wolfi and Succinea Wolfi described by Reibisch.
From Albemarle Island B. pallidus Simrothi and Pupa munita all regarded as new by Reibisch  Indefatigable Island supplied the new B. Wolfi and Pupa clausa Reibisch  and Barrington Island 5.
'eirosixs Reibisch.
These species will submit to some additions from data furnished by letter through the politeness of Herr Reibisch who has also sent me for examination a number of his types.
H. M. S. Peterel Commodore Cookson visited Charles Island in 1875 obtaining B. mix in numerous varieties B. tmifasciatus eschariferus and the Succinea described by E. A. Smith as S. Bettii and var.
brevior in honor of StaffSurgeon Bett who collected the specimens.
In 1888 the U. S. S. Albatross Captain Tanner of the U. S. Fish Commission during her voyage from Norfolk Virginia to San Francisco California spent a short time in the Galapagos group and obtained a good many specimens of a few species of land shells which have been discussed by Dr. Stearns in the Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum for 1892.
The collection from Chatham Island comprised BuUmulus nux nxicijormis amastroides chemnitzioides Habeli and Succinea Bettii from Charles Island B. nux in numerous varieties rwuosMS eschariferus Siphonaria gigas Onchidella Steindachneri Semper and the new 0.
Lesliei Stearns  Albemarle Island afforded B. nux and the two Onchidiums while at Hood Island Williainia peltoides was obtained.
The Albatross again visited the Galapagos under the direction of Professor Alexander Agassiz in 1891 but no land shells appear to have been collected on this occasion.
The most thorough and important exploration for land shells which has yet been made is that upon which this paper is essentially based namely the expedition of Dr. G. Baur in 1890 in which careful notes were made as to the occurrence of the different species not only as to the particular island but the altitude above the sea the sort of vegetation rock shelter etc. where the species were collected.
The results tabulated by islands of Dr. Baur's labors are as follows  CHATHAM ISLAND.
Bulimuhis nuz var.
incrassahis 1600 feet on leaves.
B.jacohi typical form 1600 feet.
B. achatellimis 1600 feet under leaves.
B. unifasciatus 1600 feet under leaves.
B. Bauri n. s. 1600 feet under leaves.
B. curtus 1600 feet under leaves.
B. nucula 1600 feet under leaves.
B. chemnitzioides 1600 feet under leaves.
B. eschariferus near seashore under stones.
B. Haheli near seashore under stones.
Conulus galapaganus 1600 feet on leaves of plants.
Vitrea chathamensis 1600 feet on leaves of plants.
Succinea produda typical 1600 feet on mossy rocks.
Leptinaria chathamensis 16002000 feet on ferns.
Helicma nesiotica 1600 feet on leaves.
CHARLES ISLAND.
Bulimulus rugulosus.. B. galapaganus.
B. planospira.
Succinea brevior.
SOUTH ALBEMARLE ISLAND.
Bu limuliis jaco hi.
Trochomorp ha Bauri.
B. Simrothi.
Succinea Bettii and corbis.
Pupa Woljii.
Leptinaria chathamensis.
DUNCAN ISLAND.
Bulimulus olla.
B. duncanus.
BARRINGTON ISLAND.
Bulimulus eschariferus var.
ventrosus.
B. olla.
JAMES ISLAND.
Bulimulus jacobi var.
cinereus.
Succinea Bettii typical.
INDEPATIGABLE ISLAND.
Bulimulus olla.
The total after suppressing a number of synonymous names amounts to twentyseven discriminable forms collected from seven out of the twelve principal islands by Dr. Baur.
Dr. Baur's results leave little room for doubt that a thorough exploration of all the islands and especially of Albemarle and Narborough would add materially to the number of determinable forms and therefore that the time for finally discussing or speculating upon the distribution of the species among the several islands has not arrived.
Albemarle much the largest should when explored yield a larger harvest than the much smaller Charles or Chatham Islands which seem to have been better explored because they have better anchorages for a vessel.
Narboroughsaid to be very fertile has not been explored at all for land shells we have nothing at all from Abingdon or Tower and only three species from Bindloe.
Nearly all the land shells of the Galapagos are more or less arboreal and pass much if not the whole of the dry season attached to branches of shrubs or trees by a deposit of tough dry mucus forming a hermetic seal to the aperture as well as a means of fixation.
So tough is this material that when dry the bark or the shell will break easier than the epiphragm if one tries to dislodge a specimen.
The mucus is poured out in such quantity as not only to close the aperture of the shell with a brownish parchmentlike membrane but to fill the minor irregularities of the surface upon which the aperture rests and to rise around the outer margin nearly a millimeter above the edge of the shell.
About a third or half a turn further inside the shell the animal constructs a second epiphragm behind which it rests in a torpid state until a change in the season leads to its awakening.
Several specimens of Bulimulus planosjnra which had been gathered more than a year and kept in a corked vial when they reached my hands still contained the living animal in his self constructed refuge and doubtless other species would have done the same if they had not been put in alcohol.
Nearly all of Dr. Baur's living Bulimuli were collected during the hibernating season as indicated by the remains of bark and epiphragm still adadhering to them.
Of the species not known to construct an epiphragm there are only a few identifiel from the islands three small forms of Helicidee a Leptinaria and HeUclna besides the semiamphibious saltmarsh loving Auriculldce etc.
The Helidna has a shelly operculum with which it can hermetically seal its shell.
Both it and the Helices are forms which would be apt to hide in minute crevices of bark or holes in decaying timber.
The Leptinaria lives on ferns and its minute size renders it possible that it might be carried on deadleaves etc. which an exceptionally high wind blowing for eight or ten hours might carry to the islands.
Such winds are not unknown especially in the tropics and a single hurricane blowing in the right direction might introduce a large number of seeds insects fern spores and minute land shells to say nothing of larger objects.
It is obvious therefore that the derivation of the island flora and land shell fauna does not present us with serious difficulties.
Its distinctively American type indicates the point of origin.
Before discussing this branch of the subject further it may be well to refer to the characteristics of the several islands in order that the relations of the fauna to the fertile area may be considered.
The islands which lie most directly in the track of currents and winds are those of the southeastern group.
Chatham is one of the best known and most fully explored in the whole group and is notable for the clean cut development of the three zones and the fertility of its upper portion.
On Charles there is less vegetation on the lower levels but according to Agassiz the beach shows many planta common to Panama and Guayaquil.
Hood is so much lower than the others 640 feet as to be chiefly in the barren zone covered with lava blocks destitute of water in the dry season and partially green only in the rainy season.
Of the Central group Indefatigable is first in the track of the current and much resembles Charles and Chatham with a vast tract of arable upland.
Duncan is comparatively small with abrupt sides and has no living water though its upper part is somewhat verdant.
The south and east parts of James Island seem partly sheltered by Charles and Indefatigable from the prevailing trade winds  at all events they are dryer and less fertile than the portion north of James Bay.
Much of Albemarle Island is low and consequently barren having a desolate burnt aspect.
The highlands of the southern portion are covered with rich vegetation and there are elevated green patches near the northern end.
Although there is actually a larger area of vegetation on Albemarle than on either of the other islands yet the fertile region is not as large in proportion to the total area as the size of the island on the chart would lead one to expect.
Narborough from which no land shells have yet been collected has a rich and abundant vegetation with a luxuriant growth of mangroves on the eastern shore.
This island was the last to exhibit its volcanic activity and the fauna may prove meagre yet it can hardly be doubted that it will afford a certain number of species and possibly some novelties.
The islets of the northeastern group are small and comparatively barren.
Tower and Bindloe are not high enough to profit much by the mists.
Abingdon is higher and with Bindloe shows a certain proportion of green.
No land shells are known from Tower and Abingdon.
From Bindloe only the following are yet reported  Bidimulus Darwini Auricula stagnalis Pedipes angulatus.
From the central group come   Bidimulus Wolji B. duncanus B. calvus B. jacobi B. jacobi var.
cinereus B. olla B. Tanneri B. imifasciatus B. Simrothi B. n.
sp. near to Habeli B. rugiferus' B. Reibischi B. nesioticus Trochovioryha Bauri Pupa clausal Pupa Wolfii Succinea Bettii Succinea corbis Leptinaria chathamensis Leptinaria sp.
larger than chathamensis Helicina nesiotica.
In all 21 forms of which none is common to the northeastern group of islands  14 are peculiar or not yet reported from either the northeastern or southeastern group of islands  one is of doubtful locality but provisionally placed here on account of its similarity to B. rugiferus  and the remaining six are common to the southeastern group.
Onchidium is not counted.
In the southeastern group are found thirtythree forms not counting Onchidium of which the following are peculiar to or not yet found outside of this group of islands   Bulimidus nux B. achatellinus B. rugtdosus B. nudus B. planospira B. ustidatus B. eschariferus and var.
ventrosus B. galapaganus B. perspectivas B. jacobi var.
aciduH B. nueida B. amastroides B. curtus B. Bauri B canaliferus B. chemnitzioidesB.
Habeli Vitrea chathamensis Conulus galapaganus Succinea producta S. brevior.
To which may be added  Melampus trilineatus Tralia panamensis Williamia peltoides Siphonaria gigas.
Omitting the Auriculidce and Siphonariidce we have as supposed peculiar forms in each group of islands twentyone characteristic of the southeastern fourteen from the central and one from the northeastern group of islands which agrees well with the hypothesis that the species originated with forms brought by winds and currents which impinge first on the southeastern group.
On the other hand it is certain that the southeastern islands are much better known than either of the other groups and that the area and fertility of the central group are such that there is every reason to suppose many more forms remain to be discovered there perhaps including some of those so far known only from the southeastern islands.
Prudence strongly urges that we know too little of the mollusk fauna yet to intelligently discuss its interisland distribution.
Taking the forms enumerated in the table showing the distribution of the species and omitting the Onchidium and species of Airictilidce and Siplwnariidce. all of which are denizens of the salt marshes or beaches we have fortysix of which fifteen are found on more than one island five on more than two islands and three are found without material change on four islands  all of the latter are found in both the central and southeastern groups of islands.
One of the species and perhaps two are probably common to the mainland of South America as well as the Galapagos and all of them doubtless have been derived from the fauna of the Panamic and South American region.
The following table will show the distribution of the various species among the several islands as far as known their presence being indicated by an initial letter in the column devoted to the island concerned.
A stands for the Albatross expedition  B for Dr. Baur C for Hugh Cuming D for Darwin  H for Dr. Habel  K for Kellett and Wood  P for the Peterel Captain Cookson  and W for Wolf as reported on by Reibisch with some additions to his printed list.
The names are given in the left hand column the columns for the islands follow in the order of their distance from the source of supply approximately  the last column sums up the number of specimens actually examined by the writer in preparing this paper.
One or two species are noted as new which Herr Reibisch has mentioned in his letters as now in his possession in addition to which are several Pupas which he regards as new but has not informed me to which islands they should be assigned.
Habits and environment.
 With the exception of Dr. Baur no one seems to have noted very particularly the exact location of the species collected either with regard to altitude or situs.
A few of Wolf's species are so noted but as most of his specimens were dead their value in such a discussion is impaired.
Cuming noted the situs but neglected the altitude.
The matter really needs the attention 1896.
405 TABLE OF DISTRIBUTION OF GALAPAGOS LAND SHELLS.
A Albatross  B Baur  C Cuming  D Darwin  H Habel  K Kellett  P Peterel  W Wolf  collectors or authorities.
Names of the forms.
Bulimiilus mix Bulimulus achatellinus..  Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Darwini Wolti duucanus ...   rugulosus.... var.
uudus .
planospira.. ustulatus.... calvus nucula Bulimulus eschariferus.
... Bulimulus var.
veutrosus.
Bulimulus var.
pileatus.... Bulimulus galapaganus.... Bulimulus perspectivus Groups of the Islands.
Southeastern.
Chatham.
Bulimulus jacobi Bulimulus var.
ciuereus.
Bulimulus var.
acutus.... Bulimulus olla Bulimulus Tanueri  Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus  Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus  Bulimulus Bulimulus Bulimulus amastroides var.
curtus  unifasciatus  Simrothi   Bauri caualiferus   seulpturatus.... nesioticus rugiferus Keibischi    chemnitzioides.
Habeli n. sp Trochomorpha 
Bauri Vitreachatliamensis Conulus galapaganus Pupa Woltii Pupa clausa Succinea Bettii Succinea brevier Succinea producta Succinea corbis Leptinaria chathamensis.
Leptinaria sp Helicina nesiotica Auricula stagualis Melampus trilineatus Tralia pauameusis Pedipes angulatus Siphonaria gigas Williamia peltoides Onchidium Lesliei Onchidella Steindachneri.
Number of forms 54.
Charles.
Hood.
KABW KWB DKC K B DKWAB W B W W A W AB KB B W KH W AB H W AB D7 B B W WB WB WB H CPW A D A W B W B C CW A w p B C P H P A P B A H A AH 25 17 Bar.
WB Central.
Indf.
W B H H B A W W Dun.
B BA Alb.
B W WB B WB B B B W W Jas.
C WAB C A C w A A 11 B N.E.
Bindl.
H H H 406 1896. of a person sufficiently expert to recognize the species when collected and to collect with judgment in all the zones.
Dead specimens are so easily carried down hill by wind or temporary rills of water in the rainy season or transported and dropped by birds in places which they did not originally inhabit that no weight can be gfven to the place of their occurrence in such a discussion as this.
In regard to some of the species no information is available  some of the others have been collected in a dead condition from the dry zone below 800 feet which are known to live in the wooded zone above hence these may be eliminated from the local population of the dry zone.
Making such eliminations the known population of the dry the wooded and the grassy upper plateau regions respectively are as follows  Bulimulus Wolfi.
B. rugulosus.
B. planosjnra.
B. ustulatus.
B. calvus.
DRY ZONE.
B. eschariferus and var.
ventrosus.
B. galapaganus.
B. perspectivus.
Pupa elausa.
P. mimita.
WOODED ZONE.
Bulimulus nux and varieties.
B. achatellinus.
B. jacobi.
B. acutus.
B. nucula.
B. amastroides.
Bulimulus olla.
B. cuHus.
B. unifasciatus.
B. Bauri.
B. canaliferus.
Conulus galapaganus.
Succinea Bettii.
S. brevior.
S. producta.
B. chemnitzioides.
Leptinaria chathamensis.
B. Kabeli.
Vitrea chathamensis.
Helieina nesiotica.
GRASSY ZONE.
B. Simrothi.
It is not at all improbable that some of the species of the wooded zone extend downward into the dry or partially dry zone and that the singular variations observed in some of the species may be due to the direct action of the differing conditions in which they respectively exist.
Making allowance for this the chief distinction which presents itself between the species of the dry zone and those of the wooded zone is that the Bulimuli of the dry region show a tendency  1 To a pupiform shape such as might facilitate their entry into narrow crevices beneath the lava blocks  2.
To reddishbrown coloration with rather conspicuous peripheral color bands forming a combination not unlike the reddish streaked lavas and hence possibly protective  and lastly 3.
To a rugose peculiar crenulation or wrinkling of the surface of those species not characteristically .smooth.
This last character which for reasons which will presently be shown is correlated with aridity or alkalinity of environment may be regarded as having been impressed upon species which first gained a foothold in the arid region and as having persisted to some extent in their descendants when the latter succeeded in reaching the upper and more congenial zones of the islands.
It is characteristically developed in the following species Bulimulus Darivini nesioticus and Wolji Bvlimulxis sculpturatus Bulimulus rugiferus partially in Bulimulus Simrothi and traces of it are perceptible in some specimens of Bulimulus Bauri.
The external appearance is such as to suggest that the shell when soft had been pecked at with a pointed object leaving small irregular depressions scattered more or less closely over the surface.
It never appears in the nuclear whorls rarely in the earlier ones following the nucleus and when a sufficient number of specimens is examined some will be found in each species which do not exhibit it.
The latter often look very unlike the commoner form of the species and by those unacquainted with the relation between them and unsupplied with a sufficiently large series for study might easily be regarded as specifically distinct.
The wrinkling or indenting of the surface is distinct from the longitudinal turgid plications or narrow warty prominences seen in Bulimulus mix var.
incrassaius Bulimulus rugulosus and B. ylano' spira nor is it the same as the granular sculpture found in the two last mentioned species in some specimens of Bulimulus jacobi and in cinereus B. Simrothi rugiferus and numerous Lower Californian and Peruvian arid region species such as B. proteus and B. montezuma.
This sculpture is more ancient in the history of the group its elements may often be detected on the nuclear whorls and their subsequent development on later turns is often correlated with the presence of epidermal cirrhi or hairs sometimes numerous enough to form veritable fringes.
Something of this is visible in a perfectly preserved young B. Simrothi in the full grown shell the delicate hairs have fallen or been lost through abrasion.
Nevertheless the extra development of this and the above mentioned plicate sculpture are generally associated in arid regions with the dryness and in moist regions with the presence of some alkaline salt which accentuates the action of those factors in the organism which are concerned in the formation of the minor irregularities of the shell surface.
The manner in which this is brought about is one of the prettiest illustrations of the direct action of the environment which I know and seems to be sufficiently established by both geological and physiological evidence.
In the arid region of the far west especially in the desiccated lake basins of Utah Nevada and California it has long been observed by the writer Dr. R. E. C. Stearns and others that in the successive beds of fresh water marl which the now dried up lakes deposited in Pliocene and Pleistocene times the shells indicate a progressive change in surface characters as the alkalinity of the water increased until at last the amount of alkali became so great that the mollusks were exterminated or found a precarious refuge in the fresh water streams which fell into the basins in question.
The shells without regard to genus or systematic relations showed a unanimous tendency to become ridged plicated or rugose  the regularity of the gastropod coil was interfered with abnormalities became more common and toward the last almost general.
Projecting sculpture spiral threading carinse riblets etc. were exaggerated  size generally diminished the height of the spire relatively to the diameter became less and general degeneration curiously combined with extreme accentuation and irregularity of surface characters.
Something of the same sort is visible at the present time in the shells of fresh water gastropods in the irrigating ditches of farms in the alkaline arid region  those shells in the ditches where the water has leached out alkaline matter from the soil showing evidences of change in the same direction in surface sculpture as I have personally observed in the Honey Lake Valley Nevada.
In Whitfield's observations on the degeneration of Limncea megasoma  kept for many generations in an aquarium where the water lost by evaporation was constantly replenished the old residual supply not being emptied so that a concentration of the salts contained in the much greater bulk of the original water took place in the aquarium  somewhat analogous but less marked changes are recorded.
The dynamical origin of these changes may be explained by considering the origin of the surface characters of the shell.
The deposition of the shell substance and epidermis takes place from the surface and the edge of the mantle.
The process is not absolutely continuous but is carried on at more or less frequent intervals when the animal is in a state of rest.
At times when deposition is going on the margin of the mantle is in a more extended state than usual reaching to a point where the extremely thin and delicate membrane is in contact with the extreniest margin of the already formed shell.
The glandular epithelium of the edge of the mantle secretes less lime than that of the surface behind it and is chiefly responsible for the periostracum of the shell while the rest of the mantle has the task of secreting the more limy matter which makes up the bulk of the calcified shell.
As the margin expands or contracts over the still viscous secretion the ornamentation of the mantle edge cilia papillse fringes etc. everything which by its form or bulk varies the flatness of the filmy membrane itself mechanically influences the form of the surface over which it passes as the teeth of a rake leave shallow furrows over the gravel of a garden walk.
Essentially in this way are the spiral stride the revolving threads and similar ornamentation developed on the surface of a fresh water gastropod.
The transverse sculpture usually known as incremental lines arises from the periodicity of secretion while ribbing or spinose ornamentation originates in a periodic turgidity of the mantle how induced normally is not known which rhythmically affects that organ and by its tidal rise and subsidence causes the shell secreted during such epochs to be more inflated or capacious than at the corresponding intervals.
These features and modes of growth can be observed in an aquarium with the more common fresh water gastropods.
It is a matter of common observation that alkaline salts dust and dryness are very inimical to land and fresh water mollusks.
Salts of chlorine and lime or soda will destroy slugs or snails subjected to their influence  the creature exudes a copious protective mucus up to a point when exhaustion results and death soon follows.
The tissues under the action of such agents contract violently shrivel and finally die.
Against hot pure dry air and dust the slug protects himself by burrowing and secreting a protective coccoon of limy mucus which dries to a leathery substance preventing further evaporation.
The shellbearing snail retreats into its house and closes the door with a succession of almost airtight epiphragms of which the outer one is often applied to a stone a bit of bark or the surface of a tree or shrub either on the branches or leaves.
The com27 atose condition which follows is only broken up bv the presence of moisture in the air which the prisoner perceives and takes advantage of to return to active life.
The state of torpor may occasionally last for years but is general among land shells during the dry season in the tropics and during the winter of the colder zones.
Most of the collections made at the Galapagos seem to have been made in the dry season.
This was the case with Darwin's work and all the Bulimuli collected in a living state by Dr. Baur retain the whole or portions of the epiphragm showing that they were in retirement when taken from the trees.
If the creature by an early diminution of humidity is forced into its state of hibernation before its normal period of growth is absolutely completed it frequently happens that the portion of the shell about the aperture is irregular and bears indications of having been secreted under abnormal conditions.
The incremental rugse in the vicinity of the margin will be exaggerated or crowded the color of this part of the shell absent or different from the rest the pillar irregularly tuberculose or keeled at the base  abnormal thickenings or tubercles may appear on the outer lip or on the parietal portion of the aperture and the margin of the lip will take on an irregular form presumably to adapt itself to the irregularities of the surface to which the creature is about to attach itself for hibernation.
Reeve's figure of Bulimulus Danvini shows a state of affairs such as I have described so does the form figrured under the name of .
Simrothi by Reibisch and similar indications are afforded by specimens of 5. nux B. rugulosusB.
tortuganus and B. Bauri.
An understanding of these facts is necessary in order to avoid the use of these temporary and individual dynamic mutations as specific characters an error several authors have not succeeded in escaping.
To return to the modification of the surface of the shell by local conditions the facts above cited enable us to understand how under normally favorable conditions the organism deposits the mucus matter which by a process analogous to the crystallization of salts in a colloid medium hardens into the shell substance which then forms a compound of crystallized lime aragonite and conchioline not chitine as stated by Osborn and others.
2s ow if we assume the attenuated film of secretive tissue constituted by the margin of the mantle expanded in order to divest itself  Studies from the Biol.
Laboratory Johns Hopkins University II p. 431 1883. by the usual process of the products of secretion to be suddenlybrought in contact with alkaline salts either as dust or in solution in the moisture about the animal the result will be a sudden contraction of the portion of the mantle affected consequently the mucus deposit either will not be laid down evenly on the margin of the shell or its deposition may be for the moment retarded.
In either case an irregularity will result.
The mantle turgescent with secretion cannot indefinitely retain the secreted fluids and after a time even if the alkaline irritant is still active the mucus must be exuded.
But if this is done by a film of tissue more or less irregularly contracted the deposition will be correspondingly irregular in its location.
As the epidermis is first laid down and the more calcareous matter subsequently upon its elastic surface it follows that an irregular surface of the epidermis will be reinforced by shelly matter and as it were petrified in its irregularity which will be exhibited permanently in the external surface of the shell.
If a minute process of the mantle edge would normally produce a spiral thread on the surface of the shell and its regular deposition is interrupted by the alkalinity of dust air or moisture about it the tissue will be obliged to contract after a short period of expansion and the spiral thread will consequently appear broken up into a series of granules.
The more violent the induced contraction the greater will be the amount of undeposited mucus contained in the respective glandular cells and which must be got rid of at the next period of expansion and consequently the coarser will be the granules formed by its exudation at the next opportunity.
The coil of the shell is determined partly by that portion already existing against which the new deposit must be laid down and partly by the form and mass of the body of the animal within the shell.
The direction of the coil is a resultant of the reactions between these two factors guided to a limited extent by gravity which pulls the shell pendant from the extruded animal to one side or the other while the animal is active.
Yet as the deposition of shelly matter takes place chiefly if not entirely when the animal is contracted and at rest mostly within the shell it cannot be expected that the action of gravity should have much influence on the form of the shell.
But if the growth of the soft paits be accelerated so that they increase in length of coil disproportionately to the growth of the shell the direction of the coil is correspondingly less dependent on the form of the existing whorls and more dependent on the posture assumed by the extruded soft parts so that if the suggested growth be sudden as if forming a climax during which maturity is rapidly assumed a state of things readily induced by changes in the reproductive organs and the ripening of their contents a sudden change in the direction and form of the whorl may be induced dynamically.
This is what I believe takes place in such forms as Holospira Cylindrella and various Cydostomatldce.
If we picture the animal on a twig holding on by the foot and partially retracted the spire heavy with contained ova and the animal at rest pending secretion of shell matter it is easy to imagine the manner in which the mature aperture may be built up on the margin of a perpendicularly pendant immature shell without following the cycloidal curve of the earlier whorls.
The influence of a very dry warm atmosphere on the expanded mantle will be analogous to that of alkaline matter but likely to act with less irregularity.
A particle of alkaline dust might affect a small part of the margin of the mantle and not the rest while the air might be expected to act on the whole expanded margin.
It is probable even then however that some portions of the edge might dry quicker than others and more or less irregularity would almost certainly result.
Of course if the margin of the mantle were to become actually desiccated secretion would cease and could not go on again until the dry tissue had been cast off and replaced.
But it is probable that the tissue is too sensitive for such an event to occur under ordinary conditions.
It would probably ojierate so that when the animal felt the mantle becoming uncomfortably dry it would simply retract and temporarily cease secretion as in the presence of alkali.
But enough has been said to indicate the mode by which drought and alkaline matter may act upon the growing mollusk and directly modify its secretions and by consequence its hard parts.
That this action takes place substantially as suggested I have little doubt and that its results may be differentiated from those of normal growth in continuously favorable conditions I think will be shown to be probable.
Let us consider the features presented by Bulhnulus Simrothi and see how far they exemplify the processes above described.
The deposition of ova may take place with the opening of the wet season.
No data are available but none of the specimens collected in the hibernating state by Dr. Baur and of which the soft parts were examined contained any developed ova.
It would be in accordance with what we know of species in other regions if the ova were rapidly developed and deposited in the early part of the wet season.
The nuclear portion of the shell presents the features so characteristic of many continental Bulimuli in that the first whorl is angulated above and the vertex is consequently concave or even funicular.
The surface of the nucleus is evenly closely transversely ribbed with fine spiial strife perceptible between the ribs upon magnification.
The sculpture of the nuclear whorl merges gradually into that of the succeeding whorls the ribbing becoming finer until it is lost in the incremental sculpture.
The spiral strife become stronger and practically cover the whole shell.
Four delicate fine spiral threads are evenly spaced on the whorls between the periphery and the suture somewhat broken by the rather regularly spaced incremental elevated lines.
Where the two intersect the epidermis is raised in microscopic cilia only visible in finely preserved young specimens.
In this condition there are four or five whorls besides the nucleus.
They are of a reddishbrown with a pale olivegreenish narrow peripheral band.
Up to this point unless it be that the shell is slightly narrower the species is indistinguishable from B. unifaseiatus.
About this time earlier in some later in others the peculiar indented irregularities of the surface begin to appear  at first exaggerated slightly irregular incremental lines then irregular broken surface markings recalling rusted metal which has been cleaned but preserves the maculse of oxidation.
Finally the aperture shows a slightly reflected lip a pillar thickened keeled at the base tubercular with a single tubercle set anywhere along its length  the outer lip with one or two adjacent tubercles the umbilicus from large and ample to very contracted almost closed.
The peripheral baud persists in some cases the warty prominences are whiter than the shell normally would be having a bleached aspect.
I should read the developmental history of this species generally as follows  The species sprang from a form not unlike B. Xantudi of Lower California the superficially more similar Peruvian B. rhodacvie and pruinosus having a different nucleus.
The ova hatching in the height of the rainy season grew normally and if the rainy season had been long enough would have developed into shells with the color and sculpture of B. unifasciatus and the form of a small slender B. jacobi.
Some of the specimens almost attain this ideal.
Toward the end of the season either occasional hot spells or the influence of salts leached out of the decomposed lava soil by the rains began to effect the growing shells some more and some less and continued to do so until they completed their shells or were forced immature to go into hibernation.
Completing their shells under pressure and affected by the environment the thickening of the aperture was more or less irregularly deposited and the excess of shell matter appears in the form of tubercles or lumps of callus disposed about the aperture.
As might be expected so far as we know the situs of the various species these peculiar deformations occur chiefly among the species of the dry zone below or the grassy zone above the conditions of the intermediate wooded zone are probably more uniform or perhaps species living on the ground or on low herbage are more likely to be affected by alkaline efflorescences than those which live at a greater height on trees and shrubs.
If these views are correct we should expect to find analogous effects produced on similar mollusks in similar situations throughout the world.
They should be produced without reference to the line of descent of the species that is species of the European Buliminus or the African Achatina should in analogous situations exhibit practically the same sort of deformation as has just been described in species of Bulimulus isolated on the Galapagos.
Is this the case
Analogous situations are not very numerous.
Wanted an island habitat with volcanic rocks a climate combining periodical dryness with occasional wet mists and a regular rainy season.
In the Hawaiian Islands we have something of the sort but owing to their larger size there is a much more continuous flow of water in streams the climate is not so hot and the parallel is far from exact.
The island of Fernando de Noronha has been said to have a remarkable resemblance to the Galapagos and so did St. Helena before it was deforested.
A glance at the fauna will be of interest.
The island of Fernando de Noronha like the Galapagos is volcanic with a soil formed by decomposition of the basalt and is well supplied with vegetation and water.
Smith says of the mollusk fauna  Of the land shells two are well known West Indian species one has been recorded from Brazil Peru and the island of Opara and the remaining four up to the present appear to be peculiar to the island.
One of these however Bulimus Ramagei suggests a faunistic similarity to Brazil as the section of Bulimus to which it belongs Tomigerus with one exception occurs only in that country.
The species are as follows according to Smith  1.
Helix Polygyratia quinquelirata Smith.
5 Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
Zool. Vol.
XX p. 484 1890.
2.
B.
 Tomigerus f Eamagei Smith.
3.
B.
Bulimulus Ridleyi Smith.
4.
Pwpa solitaria Smith.
5.
Stenogyra  Opeas octonoides C. B.
Ads.
6.
S.  Opeas siibula Pfr.
7.
S.  Opeas Beckiana Pfr.
var.
This fauna is of South American type.
While there are some Australasian forms which recall Polygyratia in their shell characters their anatomy is still unknown.
The nearest relatives of this species appear to be the continental if.
pofocoifa Orbigny and such forms as H. endodonta of Ecuador.
It is curious that the Helices of oceanic islands so frequently belong to groups which have the throat of the shell armed with spiral lamellie and the fact will be considered later in connection with the St. Helena fauna.
None has yet been described from the Galapagos yet one cannot help wondering if the Helix not specifically named found by Darwin and supposed by Cuming and himself to be identical with a Tahitian species might not have been of this type.
It is obvious that the Noronha fauna is too small to admit of basing much upon its characters but small as it is they are quite suggestive.
The second species is referred with some doubt to Tomigerus by Smith.
It seems to the writer that the doubt is well founded and that the curious species in question is hardly more different from B. Ridleyi than B. Darwini is from B.jacobi or Simrothi.
Bulimuhis Ridleyi is fuscous with a pale peripheral line.
The incremental lines are cut by slender spiral stride and the shell is umbili cated.
The aperture recalls that of B. Simrothi and in some respects that of the fossil Bulimali of the Oligocene silex beds of Tampa Florida.
It is found on trees and under stones rather widely distributed on the island.
According to Smith  It resembles somewhat in form certain species of Par tula  it faintly recalls chiefly on account of color Bulimulus jaeobi from the Galapagos Islands.
It will be observed that all the forms with which it is compared are of insular habitat Florida in Oligocene times having been an island while in the Oligocene beds of the continent of the same horizon as the silex beds no Bulimuli have been found.
Pupa solitaria Smith is so similar to the variable P. Wolfii Miller of Guayaquil P. munita and P. clausa Eeibisch of the Galapagos that bearing in mind the wide dispersion of these minute species I strongly suspect a sufficient number of specimens would demonstrate their identity.
The species of Stenogyra are obviously West Indian or continental and call for no special remark.
The land shells of St. Helena have been described by Smith P. Z. S. 1892 pp.
258270 from collections by Captain W. H. Turton R. E. The National Museum is indebted to Captain Turtonfor a nearly complete series of his St. Helena shells including one or two species accidentally introduced since the settlement of the island.
These have proved of great value for comparison as the best figures fail to give the peculiarities of surface texture with which in this discussion we are largely concerned.
Omitting synonyms mere varieties and recently introduced species the land shell fauna of St. Helena comprises four species of helicoid shells without lamellae which have been referred to Patula but which may prove to be edentulous species of Endodonta ten species of Endodonta section Helenoconcha Pilsbr' with more or less complicated oral lamellre  Achatina PacJujottis aurisvulpina Dillw. and two or three related species  Achatina Cleostyla exulataand suhtriincata  Bulimulus Pachnodus' helena and two related species  a Tomigeruslike sheW Papa Camp olaemus perexilis Smith Pilsbry and two minute species of Pupa  and lastly three species of Succinea in all twentynine species.
Of these by the gradual desiccation of the island twentytwo are become extinct.
The native forms found living comprise two species of Endodonta Pachyotus melanoides and P. Turtoni and three species of Succinea.
The mollusk fauna as a whole is Oceanic and shows no strong affinity with either America or West Africa especially the former.
The manner in which these mollusks reached the island is a mystery the more so as it is said that the flora and insect fauna also show no special relationship with those of South America.
Nevertheless the contours of the sea bottom as well as certain features of the fauna indicate a previous more intimate relation between South America and Africa than has recently existed and whatever this bond may have been it is not improbable that St. Helena participated in it.
Any ordinary means of transport would seem to be insufficient to account for the presence of Pachyotus of which even the eggs are six millimeters long.
We are not obliged for present purposes to concern ourselves with this problem of origin.
The in H. Alexandri Forbes and polyodon Sby. are both represented in Captain Turton's series and are distinct species  a single specimen of a species apparently undescribed also occurred among those sent to the National Museum.
timate structure of these animal as related to the conditions in which they live is the object of consideration.
The Helices are of less importance in this discussion because we do not know what species may be found to inhabit the Galapagos on thorough search.
But we may in passing note that the species have certain characteristics which are almost exclusively found in members of insular founas of which the most remarkable are the parallel spiral lamellae running inward from the aperture.
They are obviously protective and their presence would suggest a peculiar enemy entering the aperture to devour the inhabitant of the shell as prevalent in island faunas.
If we examine PfeifFer's list of species belonging to the section of Patula called Endodonta to which these Helices were referred by him we shall find that of those with basal lamellae all are insular species the largest body of land to which any species is referred being Tasmania.
Of the eighteen forms with parietal lamellae all are insular on tropical islands from New Caledonia to Hawaii.
Of those with both parietal and basal lamellae omitting those described from St. Helena the entire thirtythree species are insular and from mountainous tropical islands most of which are known to be volcanic.
Of the other land shells the singular Pja or Tomigerus perexilis appears to be a local development but there are two ordinary Pupas one of which is very similar in its general features and type of lamellation to the Noronha and Galapagos species a likeness already noted by Smith.
The Succiueas again over and above the general similarity of the species everywhere exhibit certain peculiarities which appear to be associated with an insular habitat.
The Siiccinea brevior of the Galapagos can hardly be discriminated from S. hekmce from St. Helena.
S. Bettii is parallel with S. pida and S. Wolfi.
with Bensoniana.
In endeavoring to find in our large collection of domestic and foreign Succineas some species with sculptured surface to compare with S. corbis the only forms of the kind which the National Museum afforded wex'e insular from Samoa Martinique St. Helena etc.
Doubtless the peculiar vermicular or dichotomous impressed lines which these species show are due to causes similar to those already described which modify the surface sculpture in Bullmulus.
Not all them show it but those which do show it are so far as I have yet observed either insular or subjected to locally arid conditions.
Those species in which this sort of sculpture has become habitual are all insular and tropical.
There remain only the Bulimoid forms  these being mostly fossil have received little attention in the usual works of reference.
The well known Bulimus mirisvulpina oJisyn sp.
was erected into a genus by Beck as early as 1837 under the name of PachyotusJ With it Beck associated a number of species of the type oi Bulimus bilabiatus and melanostomus which arrangement was followed by PfeifFer and most subsequent writers.
There are distinct points of resemblance but these are probably dynamic rather than ontogenetic.
To the writer the relations of Pachyotus are directly with a certain number of its associates of St. Helena.
The Bulimiform Helicacea of St. Helena may be divided into two groups  one Achatiuoid typified by the Pachyotus aurisvulpina and characterized by a closed or nearly closed umbilicus and a cork screw twisted axis the other Bulimuloid by a straight axis and more or less open umbilicus.
The last group comprises Bnlimulus Blofieldi and Seleanus of Forbes and B. lielena Quoy and Gaimard.
The Pachyotus group comprises all the other species of the island. '
The type was selected from among Beck's species by Gray in 1847.
In 1848 Fischer de Waldheim named it CJdlonopsis.
 According to Mr. H. A. Pilsbry whose opinion on the subject is entitled to the greatest weight the two principal groups are probably referable to the AchatinidiE Paciyotus xiA Cleostyla ani the BuliiiiulidcE Fachnodiis .
The former would be nearest to Ferideris and the latter to Pachnodus as typified bj' P. vehdhiHs.
As the socalled To7iigerus oi't.
Helena is probably a modified Pupa Caiipolamics Pilsbry analogous to Boysidia and Hypelostoma ii would seem that the affinities of the St. Helena fauna are West African Oriental or Oceanic rather than South American in spite of the presence in South America of the Achatinoid  B coronatus and  B.
HanUyi Pfr.
 The teeth of the radula of P. melanioides are in nearly straight transverse rows and the rhachidian teeth are narrow with a single small cusp as in typical Achatinidu.
The laterals are bicuspid.
On the marginal teeth the outer cusp splits forming two or three denticles on the inner four or moe on the uter teeth.
The formula is 14.12.1.12.14.
The arcuate jaw distorted in my preparation is very closely and finely striated as in Liniicolaria.
XV 2S26 t rj  1 W'  Teeth of Pachyotus melanioides.
Jaw of P. melanioides.
The main character of the dentition different from other genera of Achatinidcr is the multiple splitting of the outer cusp on the marginals as in Cionella Pupidcr Vallonia etc.
 H. A. P. Those who are not accustomed to recognize the flexibility of organisms nor to discriminate ancestral from dynamic characters will perhaps be astonished at any arrangement which includes in one group species apparently so dissimilar as aurisvulpina and melanioides but I think a little unprejudiced study of the specimens in connection with B. subplieatus will convince any one of the likelihood of their genetic relationship.
To treat the simplest and smallest group first we may take the B helena and its allies.
This species was placed in the section Ncesiotus by Pfeiffer in 1856 Mai.
Blatt. II p. 161 and it is quite similar in several respects to some of the Galapagos species but is probably derived from another shoot of the genus Bulimulus.
The nucleus in this species in B. Blofieldi and Seleanus is swollen and almost smooth.
It has no axial dimple and the surface seems not to have had any coarse sculpture.
The species show the microscopic irregularity of the incremental lines the undue thickening of the shell and the broken lines of spirally disposed granulations which indicate the influence of an arid or alkaline habitat.
Full grown specimens generally show the irregularities of the aperture characteristic of individuals which have been forced into long continued hibernation before the mantle had discharged all its surplus calcareous salts or had by reason of long continued aridity to caulk the vicinity of the aperture with shelly matter in order not to be absolutely desiccated by evaporation.
These characters are precisely those we find imposed upon the Galapagos Lower California and other arid region species.
The Achatinoid group though possessing many dynamic characters in.
common is probably derived from two sources.
B exulahis Benson and B. siibtruncatus Smith have an imperforated twisted axis a plump small nucleus followed by a few small and then several rapidly enlarging whorls a flaring aperture angulated below and with a keel or angle on the edge of the pillar.
They show les than any of the others the effects of aridity and have rather thin shells.
They originally had translucent or brownish shells with a pale tracery of opaque white or yellowish.
The aperture is regular and there is but little callous deposit.
For this section the name Cleostyla may be used.
Its resemblance to Pseudachatina seems to be slight and superficial.
The second group Pachyotus of Beck with C. aurisvulpina asr type comprises also B. melanioides B. subplieatus and probably B Turtoni though the latter is less certain and may possibly belong to a third section.
The typical Pachyotus has a dimpled nucleus though it is not keeled like that of Nxsiotus and the Lower Californian and Peruvian Bulbmdi.
In its sculpture the transverse predominates over the spiral.
The surface of the shell is everywhere transversely wainkled and toward the suture is more or less gathered into short rounded plaits stronger in the younger whorls.
The colors are dark more or less translucent tesselated with paler opaque markings or streaks.
The axis is minutely tubular and twisted especially as the last whorl is being finished off where at maturity a plait is more or less distinctly developed.
The aperture has a simple somewhat expanded more or less thickened edge which in old specimens which have hibernated may show heavy deposits of callus which is always angulated or obscurely channelled at the base of the pillai'.
Specimens which have survived hibernation have the usual irregularities about the margin.
A careful inspection reveals no reasons for supposing that P. aurisvulpina might not have been the descendent of a form like P. melanioides.
I have seen no completely adult specimens of the latter or of B. Turtoni but see no reason to suppose that the lip would not under suitable conditions be thickened in them as it is in P. subpHcatus.
Perhaps at present P. vielamoides inhabits a region where it does not now suffer from aridity which would account for the difference in the deposit about the mouth.
It is well known that great fluctuations have taken place in the rainfall on the island due to variations in the woods and forests their destruction and partial restoration.
However this maybe the living species of the group have but little callous deposit about the mouth  P. suhplicatus which evidently from the freshness of its colors cannot have been long extinct has a greater amount and P. auTisvulpina in addition to the marginal thickening shows a parietal tubercle of callus often of large size and the irregularities of form size and margin of the aperture are such as to indicate clearly degeneration leading to extinction by increasing aridity of its habitat.
Curiously enough according to Mr. Smith only one Helix an introduction from other regions has been found in Ascension Island  the other known terrestrial mollusk is Limax ascensioiis Quoy which may well be an introduction also.
The explanation of this difference between St. Helena and Ascension lies in the greater aridity of the latter.
Though thorough search might reveal some extinct species it is higbly probable tliat this island was never wooded and has always been much dryer than St. Helena.
It would carry us too far afield to undertake a discussion of the characteristics of the terrestrial mollusk fauna of those Pacific islands which by their elevated and volcanic character and geographic situation might be comparable with those we have already reviewed.
A comparison of other highland subtropical faunas where the situation is complicated by seasonal or general aridity will throw much light on the principles involved.
I have elsewhere examined the Lower Californian Bulimxdi Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1893 a group which like that of the highlands of Peru and Chili offers an excellent field for study.
But the absence of detailed knowledge of the situs affected by the several species is a great drawback to safe generalization.
A species which spends its existence burrowing in the succulent fronds of cactuses can hardly be said to be subject to arid conditions even if the cactus stands in a desert and similar doubts and difficulties are encountered at every turn when one would investigate a general question of this kind.
On isolated islands like the Galapagos and St. Helena the conditions are comparatively simple but on the continents it is different and there the complexity of conditions is too great to allow us with safety to take much for granted.
Fischer has pointed out that existing faunas are most nearly related to the antecedent tertiary faunas of the same region Man.
Conch. p. 118 the writer has shown that this is true for the American and Antillean regions and others have recognized the same truth in other parts of the world.
In pursuance of the same idea the writer believes that in the majority of cases a circumscribed local fauna of land shells will be found in the main to be most nearly related to geographically adjacent groups from which it has probably been derived  that the conditions of the environment are capable of inducing directly and without the aid of natural or any other kind of selection certain changes in the form and surface characters which on the present basis of classification are generally taken as of systematic value  that these characteristics may be so loosely worn as to disappear in the individual or in the whole group if the pressure of the environment inducing them be altered or removed  that in time and especially if the characters be of useful nature they may become fixed by hereditary transmission or natural selection or both combined  that similar factors in the environment if not too intimately complicated with others will produce in organisms of the same general nature similar results wherever situated  and lastly that the resulting features strikingly similar though they may be are conversely no evidence of ontogenetic relationship.
In any census undertaken with a view to determining systematic relationship such characters must be eliminated in order to avoid an erroneous conclusion.
It is only by close and minute study of the details of the situs of species and of their minor though by no meaus unimportant characters of form and surface that we shall be able to recognize those features which may be classed as dynamic as opposed to those which even if dynamic also in their ultimate origin have become genetically constant.
The noxious and stupefying multiplication of specific names which has been characteristic of a certain school of workers during the last twenty years could never have gained scientific recognition had there been any general appreciation of the extent to which dynamic modifications affect all organisms.
It is much easier to describe and name a character than it is to search out its reason for existence.
It is even easier with proper apparatus to count the cells in an organism of moderate size than it is to recognize and discriminate the influence of the environment upon the organic total of those cells.
By inspecting the fragments of a building one may learn something of construction but it is only by contemplating it as a whole that the higher elements of architecture can be recognized.
Recognizing the imperfection and inadequacy of our knowledge even of the limited groups discussed in this paper the writer thinks that some glimmerings of light may be had on the subject of dynamic characters from the accompanying study of insular land shells.
The following summary will express tentatively such of the conclusions as appear justified from the study of the specimens A.
Given a region of volcanic origin and mountainous character with local or seasonal aridity more or less arboreal vegetation as well as herbage and a tropical or nearly tropical climate moderate isolation and safety to propagate and increase.
B.
Into this region let land shells of the principal continental types be introduced and allowed the necessary time to become dispersed over the region multiply abundantly and respond to the environment.
C. What results in the shape of dynamic modifications may be anticipated 
Answer.
 The first result of room to spread safety and plenty of food would be to release the species from the shackles of the environment from which they had been transplanted and to promote general variability.
Ex.
Wonderful variability of insular shell faunas such as those of Madeira Galapagos and St. Helena Islands.
Secondly the particular features likely to indicate local dynamic influence under the assumed conditions would be  On the surface wrinkling corrugation or shagreening.
Ex.
The great majority of land shells in such situations as the Selicidce in Madeira the Bulimuli in the Galapagos Succinea in inany islands etc..
At the suture plaiting or wrinkling more or less rhythmical.
Ex.
B. achatellinus Forbes and B. nux Brod.
of the Galapagos  many Achatinella  all the Pachyntis etc..
At the vertex loose coiling or dimpling of the nuclear coil.
Ex.
Bulimuli of Lower California Galapagos Peru St. Helena etc..
Of the axis  Exhibition of a tendency to irregularity cork screw twisting or outward internal to the tube of the axis but external to the tube of the shell grooving in shells of elongated form resulting in a tendency to form an angle or keel at the anterior edge of the pillar within the aperture and an obscure channel at its extremity.
Ex.
All the Pachijotis many of the Ncesioti Cleostyla Pleuropyrgus Achatinella etc..
Of the aperture Thickening of the margin in connection with hibernation the formation of ill defined tubercles on the lips or paries irregularity of the margin with respect to the plane of increiment and a tendency to contraction at the full grown aperture during or after hibernation.
Ex.
Pachyotus many Ncesioti some Bulimuli of Lower California etc..
Of these characters some are more likely than others to be selected as beneficial to the species and these relate chiefly to general form and coloration.
In the matter of form the particular situs of the species has a preponderating influence small and slender shells being easier to manage in the narrow fissures under stones frequented by many species  short and stout forms apparently succeeding better among dead leaves and the short herbage in stony places while more elongated mediumsized forms are more in vogue among those which live on trees and high shrubs.
It may also be the case that when hibernating affixed to a branch or leaf stalk a form simulating a bud or spine would to a certain extent be protected from thrushes and other molluskeating birds.
In the matter of color selection undoubtedly has much influence.
Subtranslucent browns and pinkish fleshcolor harmonize with dead leaves and the opaque tracery of yellowish streaks so common on the ground loving species obviously adds to the difficulty of recognizing the snail in such localities.
Among the lava rocks sienna browns flecked with white are common and unquestionably protective.
On trees everywhere the tendency is to spiral stripes of color the surface is frequently more polished the color brighter with a tendency to the development of green among the colors which is so far as I know never found in species living on the ground.
In Achatinella these tendencies may be studied with advantage and they can be recognized in the Ncesioti and other Bulhmdi almost everywhere.
They are recognizable also among the Helices.
In insular faunas the Helices which seem to persist most effectively are small with many whorls a wrinkled surface yellowish or olive coloration often with reddish radiating flecks when fresh or wholly reddishbrown.
Many of them have a protective armature of lamellre obstructing the aperture perhaps against the hard roundbodied millipedes like Julis which eat snails and are not uncommon in insular faunas.
In an insular or isolated fauna under the conditions we have assumed we should expect to find under the bulimoid forms even in a limited number of species derived from a still more restricted number of ancestral types a globose a medium and a very attenuated type.
This is wellillustrated in almost all the faunas as in the Hawaiian Islands Achatinellidce Bulimuli of Lower California Galapagos Islands and St. Helena.
Leaving out the more normal or medium type a few examples may be mentioned  Locality.
Globose.
Very slender.
Hawaii A. kauiensis etc.
A. sibula plicata etc.
Galapagos B. Darivinii nux B. Haheli chemnitzoides.
St. Helena B. aurisvulpina B. melauioides.
Lower Cala.
B. suffiatus pilula B. artemesia.
There is no reason why such exceptional forms should maintain themselves unless there is a niche in the environment which they are especially qualified to fill.
The small Zonitidce commonly known as Hyalinia Conulus etc.  are especially fitted by their size and lightness to be transported by winds adhering to dead leaves or other light objects.
They are also welladapted to maintain themselves under adverse circumstances excepting against extreme aridity.
Consequently it is not surprising that they and the small Pupidce of which the same is true should be found as members of nearly all insular faunas where many other common types are wanting.
Other small thin and light shells like Leptinaria Balea Suhulina etc. are so easily transported that their presence in insular faunas excites no surprise though the mystery as to how any of these shells reached their reseut habitat remains as provoking as ever.
The distribution of laud shells is full of such mysteries toward the solution of which so little has been done.
Thus the Helix Tachea suhglobosa of Binney is apparently not distinguishable from the pale unicolorate variety of the H. hortensis of Europe and has been confidently asserted to have been introduced by commerce.
It is the only representative of its particular group in America and is known only from the extreme northeastern border of the United States from Massachusetts to Cape Breton Island living everywhere close to the sea or even on small islands off the coast.
The suspicion that this species is an importation is very natural but nevertheless it is found in the clays of the Champlain epoch of the coast of Maine and in prehistoric shellheaps of the same region so that if it was imported Leif Ericsen had a predecessor in the glacial epoch.
The banded forms of hortensis since imported do well and multiply varieties without difficulty and in profusion.
How did it happen then that the importer of the subglobosa brought only one of the rarer varieties and planted it along a thousand miles of coast 
And why should it appear living chiefly on rocky islets never occupied or tilled by man 
The answer to such questions involves matters of the greatest interest and importance in the history of the distribution of life on the globe.
Aplied to the Galapagos Islands it is evident that occupation especially by sheep will render it impossible forever to get any complete data.
May it not be hoped therefore that some one will undertake to make a thorough and complete survey of the malacology of these islands before it is 28 too late.
The study of the development of specific forras can never be made complete in the Hawaiian Islands because the sheep and goat have preceded the investigator.
There is still a chance to study the problem in the Galapagos Islands and it should not be lost.
SUMMARY OF THE LAND SHELL FAUNA OF THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS.
Genus BULIMULUS Leaoh.
Section NAESIO TUS Alters.
NcBsiotm Albers Heliceen p. 162 1850.
Type B. nux.
Rhaphiellus Pfr. Versuch einer Anordnung der Heliceen nach natiirlichen Gruppen.
Malak.
Blatter II p. 160 1855.
Type B. achatinellinus.
Martens in Albers Ed.
ii p. 238.
1860 Sect.
Bulimini.
Omphalostyla H.  A. Adams Gen. Rec.
Moll. ii p. 161 1855 not of Schleuter Syst.
Verz. p. 7 1838.
Nesiotes Martens in Albers ed.
ii pp.
22021 1860.
Nesiotus Clessin in Pfeiffer Nom.
Hel.
Viv. p. 254 1881.
Ataxus sp.
Clessin op.
cit. p. 253.
Pelecostoma Beibisch exparte in Isis Abh.
3 p. 13 1892.
The nomenclature of this section has had serious vicissitudes as indicated by the above synonymy.
The group was named Ncesiotus by Albers who gave no derivation for it though the sound of the word naturally inclined the hearer to suppose that it was suggested by vjfftrj9 islanders and on this assumption von Martens proceeded to modify the spelling to Nesiotes which would be a proper latinization of that Greek word.
There is no rule of nomenclature which authorizes any one to supply a gratuitous derivation for a word published without any  still less because the original does not agree with the later assumption is any one authorized to modify or destroy a name properly proposed in other respects.
Consequently von Marten's substitute cannot be accepted.
 In describing his Bulimus achatellinus Forbes says that it is unlike any known Bulimus and its characters distinctly indicate affinity with the Achatmellince.
Elsewhere he speaks of it  distantly indicating  affinity with the fauna of the Sandwich Islands.
This was not an unnatural conclusion when drawn from a few specimens but as is elsewhere shown in this paper rests upon purely superficial characters.
Actually the species is American in its relations and is very closely related to some varieties of B. nux from which protean species it may even be an oflshoot.
Conse This Beeras to be a suitable occasion to protest against the unauthorized meddling with generic names which has lately been fashionable among writers from whom more sensible things would have been expected.
quently the sectional name proposed for it must fall into the synonymy of that given earlier to B. nux and its allies.
It is probably due to the great rarity of this species that its situation in accepted systems has not been challenged before this  certainly if it had been as common as B. nux the facts could hardly have escaped attention so long.
I have not found anywhere any reasons stated for putting the species into Buliminus rather than Bulimulus where it really belongs.
The name Omphalostyla was applied by Schliiter to Bulirni with the pillar vertically twisted and his sole example was the African shell since better known under the name Achatina ustulata Lam.
Menke.
It was probably to some accidental confusion of the species with the Bulimus ustulatus Sby.
of the Galapagos that is due the application by the brothers Adams of Schliiter's name to the Ncesioti.
The type of the section Pelecostoma Reibisch is a Ncesiotus which shows a ridge at the base of the pillar which gives a peculiar channelled aspect to the adjacent part of the aperture.
This feature will be found more or less distinctly present in some specimens of almost any Galapagos species of which a large number is examined showing that it is dynamic or individual and not of systematic value.
The second species of this  section  is Leptinaria chathamensis a species belonging to a totally distinct group.
The name Pelecostoma therefore may be safely laid away on the synonymic shelf.
The question remains as to whether the section Ncesiohis has any just claims to be separated from Thaumastus Scutalus and other nominal sections of Bulimulus into which so many diverse forms have been gathered.
The diagnostic characters given by von Martens in his second edition of Albers are certainly not distinctive or even characteristic of the whole group or even of several separate species of the same group.
The shells are by no means always ' aperte perforata even in the same species  the columella is as often  plicata  as  recta and the peristome while generally simplex and sometimes  acutum is not seldom denticulate or tuberculous and more or less distinctly reflected.
The anatomical details as elsewhere shown oflfer no characters by which the species may be differentiated from many of the Bulimuli of the mainland.
The utmost that can be said therefore is that Ncesiotus is a convenient terra for the geographical group inhabiting the Galapagos Islands and as such we may retain it without giving way to the delusion that it stands for anything more important.
In the recent revision by Prof. H. A. Pilsbry of the genus Bulimulus Leach the subgenus Bulimulus s. s. is defined as having the apex irregularly wriukled or with the wrinkles broken into granules or dislocated while the subgenus Orthotomium has regular vertical riblets.
Ncesiotus is referred to the former.
The South American Bostryx has the apex smooth aud slightly swollen not fuuiculate.
An examination of the entire series of Ncesiotus in the National Museum shows that the apex is nearer to that of Orthotomium than to that of Bulimulus s. s. It is characterized invariably by vertical riblets sometimes strong and with subequal furrowed interspaces sometimes distant with wider flat interspaces and sometimes extremely delicate and fine  but except when worn always unbroken and regular and with extremely fine spiral striae visible in a good light between the riblets.
The apex always has a dimple or funicle over the axis but the upper margin of this is rounded never keeled as in some species of Orthotomium.
This is an important point as it indicates the origin of the Ncesioti from the more northern stock or from the same source as the more northern stock.
It often happens especially among those species which have the riblets low and fine that they are broken by wear on the periphery of the nepionic whorls thus suggesting the Bulimulus type  or even that they may be entirely removed while the polished surface shows no traces of erosion.
But in young fresh specimens they may always be found unbroken and regular except in the case of rare abnormal individuals.
Of the latter I have come across only one or two in all my series of several hundreds of specimens.
Bulimulus Naesiotus achatellinus Forbes.
Plate XVII figure 13.
Btdimidiis achatellinus Fbs. P. Z. S. 1850 p. 56 pi.
IX figs.
5 ab.
Btdinmlus achaiinellmus Pfr. Mon.
Hel.
viv.. Ill p. 429 1853 Kiister in Chemn.
Conch.
Cab.
ed.
ii Bulimus No.
112 pi.
31 figs.
1920.
Pfr.
Mon. IV p. 492 1859.
Bulimus RAaphiellus achatinellinus Pfr. Vers in Malak.
Bliitt. II p. 160 1855.
Bulimulus Oniphalostyla achaiinellus H.  A.
Ads. Gen. Kec.
Moll. II p. 161 1855 Wimmer Sitz.
Akad.
Wiss.
Wien. Ixxx p. 43 1879.
Buliminus Rhaphielhis achatinellinus Martens in Albeis Heliceen ed.
ii p. 238 1860.
Reibisch I'sis 1892. p. 15 t. ii fig.
8.
Bulimma Rhapiielhts achatinellitia Pfr. Nom.
Hel viv. p. 300 1881.
Bulitnulus Rhaphiellus nchatinellinus Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI p. 428 1893.
Habitat.
Upper levels of Chatham Island on trees and bushes Kellett Wolf and Baur Hood Island Habel fide Wimmer.
  Nautilus IX No.
10 p. 114 1896.
Three specimens examined of which one collected by Dr. Baur contained the soft parts.
Owing to the fact that the specimen had been partially dried up it was impossible to examine the genitalia.
The jaw was like the jaw oiB.
nuxvith about 18 irregular flat platelike ribs whose blunt ends denticulate the margin especially the cutting edge.
The outer margin of these plates is a little raised and thickened the color is pale amber darker where thickest.
The radula was rather broad the single teeth did not differ in outline from those of B. nux more than those of one specimen of wmx differs from those of another.
The number of laterals is 14 of marginals 23 the formula J 231414  23 It will be observed from these facts that nothing in the dentition of B. achatelliniis justices the presumption that it deserves a section to itself.
In Dr. Baur's specimen the nucleus is delicately transversely ribbed the vertex almost umbilicate the earlier whorls nearly white and opaque pinched up into irregular little tubercles at the suture  the later whorls have revolving dark brown color bands separated by whitish interspaces covered with a yellowish epidermis.
The base is mostly pale with a dark band around the umbilicus.
The outer lip is sharpedged and the umbilicus small.
The pillar is short and straight.
A specimen sent by Cuming to Dr. Lea is not so large and is darker colored the ground color being an olivaceous brown with a narrow chestnut band at the periphery  the base pale and the umbilicus entirely closed.
The nodulous band in front of the suture is present and of a whitish color.
The name applied by Forbes was achatellinus which by several authors on the assumption that it was intended as a diminutive of Achatinella has been emended to achatinellinus a most awkward and clumsy word.
But it is just as likely that he intended the word as a diminutive of the same root as Achatina  and at any rate no one has the right to make changes on an unsupported assumption for which reason the original form is retained here.
Bulimulus Nsesiotus nux Broderip.
Plate XVI figure 6 Plate XVII figure 10.
Bulinus mix Brod. P. Z. S. 1832 p. 125 Charles Id.
 Sby. Conch.
111. p. 6 figs.
37 37 1833.
Bulimtis nux Desh.
in Lam.
An.
s.
Vert. ed.
ii vol.
viii p. 276 1838  Pfr. Mon.
Hel.
Viv. II p. 183 1848 Reeve Conch.
Icon. pi.
xxiii fig.
150 not typical  Smith P. Z.
S  1877 p. 72.
Bulinimiis nux Beck Ind.
Moll. p. 70 1838.
Bulimus Nasioius nux Albers Heliceen p. 162 Type of section.
Bulimulus Omphalostyla nux H.  A. Adams Gen. Rec Moll. II p. 161.
1855.
Bulimulus Nesiotes nux Martens in Albers ed.
II p. 220 1860.
Bulimulus NcFsiotus nux Pfr. Nona.
Hel.
viv. p. 254 1881.
Bulimus nuciformis Petit Journal de Conchyl. IV p. 365 pi.
xi fig.
7 1853 Pfr  Mon.
Hel.
Viv. IV p. 410 1859.
Bulimus Nasiotus nuciformis Pfr. Mai.
Blatt. ii.
Vers. p. 161 1854.
Bulimulus Nesiotes nuciformis Martens in Albers ed.
ii p 220 1860.
Bulimulus Nasiotus nuciformis Pfr. Nom.
Hel.
Viv. p. 254 1881.
Bulimus incrassatus Pfr. P. Z. S. 1852 p. 157 Kiister in Cheran.
Conch.
Cab. ed.
ii  Bulimus No.
88 pi.
30 figs.
13 14 Pfr. Mon.
Hel.
Viv. Ill p. 415 1853.
Btdimulus Omphalostyla incrassatus H.  A.
Ads. Gen. Rec.
Moll.
II p. 1611855.
Bulimulus unifasciatus Reibisch non Sby.
Isis 1892 p. 20 pi.
i fig.
1 not p. 3.
Bulimulus NcEsioius nux Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 3.
Bulimulus Nasiotus incrassatus Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 4 t. i. fig.
4a var.
sulcatus Reib. Ibid p. 4 t. i figs.
4b c var.
tiuciformis Reib. Ibid. p. 4 t. i fig.
4d.
Bulimulus Nasiotus nux Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. xvi pp.
376381.
425 426 1893.
Variety verrucosus Pfeiffer.
Bulimus verrucosus Pfr. P. Z. S. 1885 p. 116 Gal.
Is.
 Mon.
Hel.
viv..
IV p. 475 1859.
Bulimus Acpsiotus verucosus Pfr. Mai.
Bliitt.
ii Vers. p. 161 1854.
Bulimulus NcBsiotus wrrf0JM5Pfr.Nom.
Hel.
viv. p. 254 1881 Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 3.
Bulimulus asperatus Reibisch non Pfr.
 Isis 1892 pi.
1. fig.
3 syn.
excl.
Variety asperatus Albers.
Bulimus asperatus Albers Malak.
Bliitt. IV p. 98 1857 Pfr. Mon.
Hel.
viv. IV p. 475 1859 VI p. 121  Novit.
Conch. IV p. 145 pi.
133 figs.
8 9.
Bulimulus Nesiotes asperatus Martens in Albers Heliceen ed.
ii p. 220 1860.
Bulitnulus NcEsiotus asperatus Pfr. Nom.
Hel.
viv. p. 254 1881  not of Reibisch Isis 1892 pi.
1 fig.
3  verrucosus var.
Bulimulus invalidus Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 5 t. i fig 6.
Habitat.
Original typical nux of Broderip on bushes Charles Island in the upper wooded region mut.
nuciformis Chatham Island U. S. Fisli Commission  Mxni.
incrassatus on the under side of leaves hibernating 1600 feet above the sea on the S.W. end of Chatham Island Baur  mut.
figured by Reeve in Conch.
Icon. abundant on Charles Island U. S. Fish Commission  variety verrjicosvs Chatham Island  var.
asperatus Charles Island abundant AVolf and U. S. Fish Commission.
The reference to Albemarle Island for this species in Stearns' list appears to be due to some accidental misplacement of labels as no specimens from that locality are in the collection or among the duplicates.
Number of specimens examined three hundred and seventyfour.
The synonymy exhibits almost as clearly as the specimens the great variability of this species.
Tlie facts also seem to indicate quite positively that a great proportion of this variability in this instance is due quite as much to an intrinsic tendency to vary in the matter of color and form as to any direct influence of the environment promoting by special circumstances any special variation.
At least while it is not questionable that some of the variations might easily be made permanent by natural selection it is probable as yet that matters have not reached that stage since the evidence of collectors seems to establish the fact that the different variations of color and form are found indiscriminately in the same region and under the same conditions.
Further and more precise observation is needed to establish this beyond controversy but at present there seems no escape from this conclusion.
An examination of several specimens by Mr. Binney afforded the following anatomical data   Genitalia with a short stout linguiform bluntly pointed ovary  testicle of numerous bunches of long blunt cseca  epididymis long convoluted along nearly its whole length  oviduct long  genital bladder small oval on a long stout duct  penis sac long narrow subcylindrical white with a silken lustre receiving the retractor muscle at its upper third the vas deferens at its apex.
Jaw low wide ends rather blunt but little arcuate anterior surface with about 20 broad flat crowded ribs squarely denticulating both margins.
It is thin membranaceous light horncolored of equal height throughout with the outer edges of the ribs reinforced.
Radula long and narrow formula   rhachidian with a 31.99.31 long central and two shorter lateral cusps the whole narrower than the base  true laterals bicuspid the outer cusps shorter 9 in number on each side  marginals low wide with one long wide bifid inner cutting point and one outer short bifid cutting point the latter in the extreme marginals becoming irregularly serrate.
In the figure plate XVI fig.
6 of the genitalia the proximal orifices are separated an accident of dissection the two canals actually open into a single atrium.
Bulimulus Nsesiotus rugulosus Sowerby.
Plate XYII figure 1.
Bulinus rtigulostis Sby. Conch.
111.
Part 142 fig.
87 a b 1839.
Bulimus rugulosus Pfr. Mon.
Hel.
Viv. II p. 113 1848.
Bulimus eschatiferus Reeve Conch.
Icon. pi.
xx fig.
121 text figure excluded 1848 not of Sowerby.
Bulimuluz Omphalostyla rugulosus H.  A. Adams Gen. Rec.
Moll. II p. 161 1855.
Bulimuhts Ncesiotus ruqulosus Pfr. Nom.
Hel.
viv. p. 254 1881  Ancey Bull.
Soc.
Mai.
France IV p. 294 1887 Chatham Island  Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. xvi pp.
381 426 1893.
 B. rugulosus var.
infuscafa Ancey op.
cit. p. 294 1887 
Bulimulus Aasio'lus midus Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 9 t. i fig.
15.
Not B. rugulosus Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 7 t. i figs.
11 ab  B.perspectivus Pfr.
Under stones near the shore Blackbeaeh Road Charles Island Dr. Baur  Charles Island Darwin and Wolf Chatham Island Darwin Kellett and Cuming.
Jaw thin membranaceous light horncolored low wide arcuate of equal height throughout ending bluntly  anterior surface with about 20 broad flat ribs their outer edges reinforced the margins of the jaw squarely denticulated by the projecting ends of the ribs.
Some varieties of B. nux approach this species quite closely especially that to which Reibisch gave the name of invalidus.
Bulimulus Naesiotus planospira Ancey Plate XVI figure 3.
Bulimus eschariferus Reeve Conch Icon. pi.
xx fig.
121 bad text excL 1848.
Bulimulus rugulosus var.
planospira Ancey Bull.
Soc.
Mai.
de France IV p. 294 1887.
Bulimulus rugulosus Reeve Smith in lilt.
ex parte.
Northeast end of Charles Island at about 200 feet.
Dr. Baur.
This is one of the most elegant species of the group.
It is very closely related to B. rtigulosus from which it may be discriminated by its larger size and greater number of whorls and by the deeper suture and more lax manner in which the last whorl is coiled.
In B. planospira the spiral sculpture is usually more elevated and conspicuou.s.
It has been found only on a limited portion of Charles Island while rugulosus is common on both Charles and Chatham.
As this form has not been figured I include a figure of it.
Bulimulus Naesiotus ustulatus Sowerby.
Bulinus ustulatus Sby. P. Z. S. 1833 p. 72 Charles Island  Conch.
111. p. 6 fig.
42 1833.. Buhmus ustulatus Desh.in Lam.
An.
s.
Vert. ed.
II vol.
viii p. 279 1838 Pfr. Mon.
Hel.
Viv. II p. 217 1848  Kuster in Chemn.
Conch.
Cab. ed.
II Bulii7ius t. 62 figs.
1618 Reeve Conch.
Icon. pi.
xxi fig.
130 1848.
Buliminus ustulatus Beck Ind.
Moll. p. 70 1838.
Bulimtdus Ompkalostyla ustulatus H.  A.
Ad. Gen. Rec.
Moll. II p. 1611855.
Bulimus Nirsiotus ustulatus Albers Heliceen p. 162 1850.
Bulimulus iNesiotes ustulatus Martens in Albers ed.
ii p. 221 I860.
Bulimulus Nasiotus ustulatus Vir. Nom.
Hel.
Viv. p. 254 1881 Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. xvi p. 427 1893.
Bulimulus NtFsiotus venustus Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 5 t. i fig.
7  not B. ustulatus Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 4 t. i fig.
5  nux var.
Charles Island Cuming.
This species is notable for the yellowness of its paler parts and the bright sienna brown of its darker portions.
It is closely related to B. calvus Sby. which is a smaller and more streaky shell.
The form figured by Reeve and Reibisch under this name is larger than the true ustulatiis and is considered by Dr. Stearns to be a banded variety of B. mix.
Balimalus NaesiotuB calvus Sowerby.
Bulinus calvus Sby. P. Z. S. 1833 p. 72 James Island  Conch.
111. p. 6 fig.
41 1833.
Bulitnus calvus Desh.
in Lam.
An.
s. Vert ed.
ii vol.
viii p. 179 1838 Pfr. Mon Hel.
Viv. II p. 225 1848 Kuster in Chemn.
Conch.
Cab. ed.
ii Bulimus t. 62 figs.
37 38.
Buliminus calvus Beck Ind.
Moll. p. 70 1838.
Btdimulus Omphalostyla clavus H.  A.
Ad. Gen. Kec.
Moll.
II p. 161 1855.
Bulimus calvus 'Reeve Conch.
Icon. pi.
xx fig.
126 1848.
Bulimulus Nesiotes calvus Martens in Albers ed.
ii p. 221 1860.
Bulimulus Ncvsioius calvus Vh.'om.
Hel.
Viv. p. 254 1881  Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 6 t. i fig.
8 Stearns Proc.U.
S. Nat.
Mus. xvi p. 427 1893 ex parte.
James Island Cuming  Charles Island U. S. Fish Commission Cuming and Wolf Chatham Island Kellett Specimens sent under this name by Cuming and Reibisch agree well with those collected by the U. S. Fish Commission.
It is closely related to B. ustulatm and is rather nearly approached by certain dwarfish unusually smooth specimens of B. rugulosus.
B. nueula Pfr.
is also closely allied.
Bulimulus Naesiotus nueula PfeifFer.
Bulimus nueula Pfr. P. Z. S. 1852 p. 60 Gal.
Is.
 Mon.
Hel.
Viv. Ill p. 415 1853 IV p. 475 1859.
Bulimus Nasiotus nueula Pfr. Mai.
Blatt.
II.
Vers. p. 161 1854.
Bulimulus Omphalostyla tiucula H.  A.
Ads. Gen. Kec.
Moll. II p. 161 1855.
Bulimulus Nesiotes nueula Martens in Albers Heliceen ed.
ii p. 221 1860.
Bulimulus Mrsiotus nueula Pfr. Nom.
Hel.
Viv. p 254 1881  Eeibisch Isis 1892 p. 3 t. i fig.
2.
Bulimulus Ncesiotus nux var.
Stearns Proc.
U.
S Nat.
Mus. xvi pp.
380 426 1893.
Charles Island Wolf fide Reibisch  Chatham Island near the S.W. end at a height of 1600 feet Baur.
A specimen submitted to Mr. Edgar A. Smith of the British Museum was said to be somewhat darker colored and more coarsely striated than the type of nueula in that collection.
These are however trivial diflerences under the circumstances.
It agrees closely with a specimen sent by Reibisch under the name of nueula.
It is a smoother smaller and more compact shell than rugulosus and shows a somewhat attenuated and dark colored apex resembling that of galapaganus Pfr.
It is perhaps most closel' related to B. ustulatus or B. calvus Sby. and a sufficient series might very likely connect them.
No living specimens of this species were collected though there are some fresh shells.
Bulimulus Nsesiotus eschariferus Sowerby.
Btdinus eschariferus Sby. Conch.
111. figs.
85 a b 1833.
Bulimus eschariferus Pfr. Symb. II p. 45  Mon.
Hel.
Viv. II p. 115 1848 Smith P. Z.
S.. 1877 p. 72.
Bulimulus Ncrsiotus eschariferus Pfr. Nom.
Hel.
Viv. p.. 254 1881  Keibisch Isis 1892 p. 2.
Bulimus rugulosus Reeve not Sby.
 Conch.
Icon. pi.
xx fig.
123 1848 citation diagnosis and figure refer to eschariferus.
Bulimulus  Omphalostyla eschariferus H.  A.
Ad. Gen. Rec.
Moll.
II p. 161 1855.
Bulirnulus eschariferus Ancey Bull.
Soc.
Mai.
France IV p. 295 1887.
B. eschariferus var.
bizofialis Ancey op.
cit. p. 295 1887.
B. eschariferus var.
subconoidalis Ancey op.
cit. p. 295 1887.
Bulimulus Nasiotus eschariferus Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. xvi pp.
3814261898.
Chatham Island Darwin Kellett U. S. Fish Commission and Dr. Baur under stones near the shore at Wreck Bay and elsewhere  Charles Island H. M. S. Peterel.
Though this species as usually received is apparently smooth and polished it has minute more or less granular spirals which it is probable in the young state bear hairs.
Among the living specimens obtained at Chatham Island by the U. S. Fish Commission were some rather smaller than the average and covered with a dense brown epidermis which bears numerous spiral lines more or less minutely granulose a small hair or process of the epidermis projecting from each granule giving the shell a pilose appearance.
These specimens measure about 12 mm.
in length and 5 mm.
in diameter the color of the shell is browner than in the type and when denuded of theperiostracum the shell is seen to be marked by numerous fine sharp almost microscopic spirals.
It may perhaps form a variety pileatm of the typical eschariferus.
Bulimulus Naesiotus eschariferus var.
ventrosus Reibisch.
Plate XVII figure 3.
Bulimulus ALCsiotus ventrosus Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 7 t. i fig.
12 ab.
Barrington Island common  Wolf fide Reibisch also Dr. G. Baur who found it under stones near the shore.
A specimen of this form was sent to Mr. Smith at the British Museum aud by him compared with the type of jB.
eschariferics with which he identified it.
In color form and range of variation the Barrington Island shells agree perfectly with those from Chatham and Charles Island eschariferus but the latter are always a little more slender if the specimens I have seen can be taken as a criterion.
Twenty four of them averaged 16 mm.
long by 5 mm.
in diameter above the aperture while the diameter of the most slender of fortytwo Barrington Island specimens was 6 mm.
The latter have the spire less attenuated and slightly more compact.
On the whole it is doubtful if this form can rank higher than as a local race of eschariferus.
Jaws light horncolored low wide thin slightly arcuate of equal height throughout with blunt ends  anterior surface with about 16 irregularly wide flat ribs their outer edges reinforced their ends bluntly denticulating the upper and lower edges of the jaw.
Radula long and narrow formula 13f9.9j13 rhachidian tooth X 2 2 X tricuspid the lateral cusps shorter  lateral teeth bicuspid  marginals with one longer inner bifid cutting point and the outer short wide cusp broken up into three or four denticles Bulimulus Naesiotus galapaganus Pfeiffer.
Bulimulus galapaganus Pfr. P. Z. S. 1854 p. 58.
Mon.
Hel.
viv.
IV p. 503 1859.
Bulimttlus Ncrsiotus galapaganus Pfr. Mai.
Blatt.
II Vers. p. 160 1854.
Btdimuhis Nesiotes galapaganus Martens in Albers Heliceen ed.
ii p. 221 1860.
Bulimulus Ncrsiotus galapaganus Pfr. Nom.
Hel.
viv. p. 1881  Keibisch Isis 1892 p. 8 Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI p. 427 1.93.
Charles Island at about 200 ft. elevation near the northeast end of the island.
Dr. Baur.
This is very closely related to B. ustulatus Sby. is slightly longer and more pupiform and wants the bright yellowish bands.
The whorls are more rounded in B. galapaganus than in B. perspectivus and the latter is darker and more uniformly colored.
Bulimulus Naesiotus perspectivus Pfeiffer.
Bulimiis perspectivus Pfr. P. Z. S. 1846 p. 33  Mon.
Hel.
viv. ii p. 97 1848  Keeve Conch.
Icon  Bulimus pi.
63 fig.
485.
Bulimulus Ataxus perspectivus Pfr. Clessia Nomencl.
Hel.
viv. p. 253 1881.
Bulimulus Ncesiotus rugulosus Reibisch Isis. 1892 p. 7 t. i figs.
11 ab.
Chatham Island Galapagos 300600 ft.. Wolf fide Reibisch on rocks and under stones.
This species is in the British Museum and appears in the literature without a known habitat but Herr Reibisch has courteously forwarded two specimens for inspection with the information that they are from Chatham Island Wolf collector.
The species resembles B. eschariferus in form but it is of a deep reddish instead of an olivaceous brown and is more rudely striated.
One specimen shows traces of a narrow pale band on the last whorl the other does not.
The lip is dark colored.
One of the specimens has the base of the pillar very prominent almost channelled the other is quite normal.
The shell is midway between the typical eschariferus and the var.
ventrosus in size.
The first reference of it to B. rugalosus by Herr Reibisch was undoubtedly an error which that gentleman detected upon examining the specimens in the British Museum.
Bulimulus Naesiotus jacobi Sowerby.
Bidimns jacobi Sby. P. Z. S. 1833 p. 74 James Id.
Conch.
111. p. 7 figs.
45 45 2 vars.
1833.
Bulimus jacobi Desh.
in Lam.
An.
S.
Vert. ed.
ii vol.
viii p. 281 1838 Pfr. Mon.
Hel.
viv. II p. 98 1848 not of Keeve Conch.
Icon. pi.
XXI fig.
135 1848  B. olla.
Bidimintis jacobi Beck Ind.
Moll. p. 70 1838.
Bulimulus Omphalostyla jacobi H.  A.
Ads. Gen. Eec Moll. ii.
p. 161 1855.
Bulimus NEsioius jacobi Albers Helic p. 162 1850 Pfr. Vers. p. 160.
Bulimulus Nesiotes jacobi Martens in Albers ed.
ii p. 221 1860.
Bulimulus Altesiolus jacobi Pfr. Nom.
Hel.
viv. p. 254 1881.
Reibisch.
Isis 1892 p. 6.
Not B. jacobi Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI p. 381 1893.
Bulimulus NcBsiotus pallidus Eeibisch.
Isis 1892 p. 6 t. i fig.
9.
Bulimulus Ncesiotus acutus Reib. op.
cit. p. 8 t. i fig.
13 1892.
James Island Cuming  Charles Island Cuming typical in U. S. Nat.
Mus. from original specimens received by Dr. Lea 1600 ft. near Wreck Bay Chatham Island on the under side of leaves of plants var.
pallidus' and on East Albemarle Island Dr. Baur  Albemarle Island 200800 ft. on bushes and stones.
Wolf fide Reibisch var.
pallidus  Chatham Island 9002000 ft. in damp places and on the trunks of trees var.
acutus Wolf The variety pallidus differs from the typical form in being slightly smaller and more slender without the wrinkles and it is probable that a large series would show no dividing line between the variety and the type.
The variety acutus differs from pallidus in the almost entire absence of the spiral granulated sculpture leaving much of the surface polished and smooth except for incremental lines.
Reibisch's figure shows one whorl more in the same length than the specimen he was kind enough to send me for examination but slight differences of this kind are common among these very variable forms.
It also comes very close to some varieties of B. nucula and B. amastroides the latter being slightly smaller and more spindleshaped.
The typical B. jacobi sent by Cuming to Dr. Lea in 1838 is a small stout shell with rather inflated whorls covered with fine granulations minute obliquely transverse broken wrinkles and fine granular spirals hardly visible without magnification.
The shell is pale reddishbrown sometimes with a narrow pale peripheral band.
The pillar and body are without fold or tubercular callus.
Those collected by Dr. Baur on Charles Island are the smallest I have seen which can be positively referred to this species.
The larger smooth form figured by Reeve under this name is distinct and will be found referred to under the name of B. olla.
Bulimulus Nsesiotus jacobi var.
oinereus Reibiscb.
Plate XVI fig.
14.
Btdimulus Ncrsiotus cinereiis Keibisch Isis 1892 p. 7 ti fig.
10.
Bulimulus jacobi var.
vermiculatus Dall Nautilus VII p. 53 Sept. 1893.
James Island at James Bay Dr. Baur and Wolf.
No living specimens of this species appear to have been collected.
This variety is hardly separable from the smaller B. jacobi though the dead and the fresh shells appear quite dissimilar.
It is somewhat smaller than the smallest undoubted jacobi and the granular sculpture is more dense and uniform.
I have not seen any specimens with a spire as long and pointed as in Reibisch's figure.
A specimen sent by him agrees in every way with those col lected by Dr. Baur.
Bulimulus Nsesiotus olla Dall.
Plate XVI fig.
2.
Bidimus jacobi Keeve Conch.
Icon.
Bulimus pi.
XXI fig.
135 1848.
Bulimulus olla Dall Nautilus VII p. 53 September 1893. '
James Island Cuming Lea Collection  Duncan Island all dead but fresh Dr. Baur  Barrington Island dead.
Dr. Baur  Conway Bay Indefatigable Island Dr. Baur.
This shell is closely related to B. jacobi and was figured by Reeve under that name.
B. olla is larger and wants the granulations oi B. jacobi its surface is nearly smooth and almost polished marked with faint incremental lines has seven whorls against six in the other species and a very bulbous pillar.
The present species inhabits the grassy upper zone while B. jacobi is found in the wooded area.
Bnlimulus Nsesiotus Tanneri Ball.
Plate XVI fig.
5.
Bidimulus NcFsiotus' Fanneri Dall Nautilus VIII p. 127 March 1895 ierr.
typ.
pro Tanneri corrected in the index p. iii April 1895.
Shell short stout pointed with two nepionic and four subsequent whorls  nucleus rather coarsely transversely ribbed the interspaces somewhat wider the subsequent whorls marked by incremental lines and obsolete traces of fine partly granulose inconstant spiral threads only perceptible under a lens  color pinkish or brownishwhite with no traces of a peripheral paler band  whorls somewhat inflated suture conspicuous umbilicus large and deeply pervious  aperture large with a widely expanded lip the outer lip much bent over at the body closely approaching the pillar and united to it by a distinct callus  length 11  max.
diameter 10 mm.
Indefatigable Island U. S. Fish Commission.
This is about the size of B. cinereus Reib. but is more conical inflated and stouter with a very diff'erently shaped aperture the lip teing more expanded and reflected than in any other species yet described from these islands.
It is named in honor of Capt.
Z. L. Tanner U. S. N. commanding the U. S. S. Albatross during the Oalapagos explorations.
None of the specimens were living lulimulus Naesiotus dunoanus Dall.
Plate XVI fig.
7.
Bulimulus Ncesiotus duncanus Dall Nautilus VII p. 52 September 1893.
The shell is short stout inflated thin with two nepionic and fourandahalf subsequent whorls.
The apex is rather pointed the axial dimple small the whorls rapidly enlarging with the suture behind the last whorl deeper than the rest and more oblique to the axis  the aperture is relatively small and rather oblique the lip simple sharp not reflected connected across the body with a thin callus a single tubercle on the body well within the aperture and about equidistant from either lip  umbilicus perforate narrow  height of the shell 18 of the last whorl 125  diameter of shell 11 mm.
Dead specimens only were found on Duncan Island by Dr. Baur.
The sculpture comprises only incremental lines and faint wrinkles in harmony with them especially just in front of the suture and near the end of the last whorl.
When perfectly fresh there were probably microscopic granules spirally arranged and sparsely distributed but these are now represented only by minute spots of erosion.
Except the largest specimens of B. mix these shells are the largest Bulimuli described from the islands.
They are however thinner than any specimens of 5. mix in this respect resembling B. unifasdatus Sby.
Bulimulus Naesiotus Darwini Pfeiffer.
Bulimus Darwiniix. P. Z. S. 1846 p. 29 Gal.
Ids.
Mon.
Hel. viv.
ii p. 199 1848 Reeve Conch.
Icon. pi.
XXI fig.
136 Gal.
Ids.
 1848.
Bulimulus Omphalostyfla Darwini H.  A.
Ad. Gen. Eec.
Moll. II p. 161 1855 Wimmer Sitzb.
Akad.
Wiss.
Wien Ixxx p. 44 1879.
Bitlimulzis Nesioles Darwini Martens in Albers Heliceen ed.
ii p. 220 1860.
Btdimulus NcBsiotus Darwini Pfr. Mon.
Hel.
viv.
p. 254 1881  Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 10 Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI p. 427 1893.
Bulimus manini  Pfr.
Carpenter Rep. Brit.
Assoc 1856 p. 359  Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI pp.
405 427 1893 Err.
typ..
Bindloe Island Habel fide Wimmer.
The type specimen of this species has disappeared from the Cumingian Collection and I have been unable to obtain a specimen for examination.
The only reference to the particular island upon which it lives is derived from Habel Bulimulus Naesiotus Wolfi Reibisch.
Bulitnulus Nasiotus Wolfi Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 10 t. ii figs.
1 ab Stearns op.
cit. pp.
414 427 1893.
Indefatigable Island Wolf fide Reibisch.
A specimen of this species kindly forwarded for examination by Herr Reibisch is clearly distinct from anything I have seen.
It resembles B. Simrothi Reib. but is more robust the surface of the upper whorls smoother and more regular in sculpture the pillartooth is more prominent and stronger the parietal tooth apparently normal is not found in any Simrothi I have seen the umbilicus is larger than in the latter species.
It resembles Reeve's figure of j5.
Darwini somewhat but the latter is 17 mm.
long while B. Wolfi only reaches a length of 13'5 mm.
Bulimulus Naesiotus unifasciatus Sowerby.
Plate XVII figs.
6 II.
Bulimus unifasciatus Sby. P. Z. S. 1833 p. 37 Charles Id.
.
Conch.
111. fig.
55 1833.
Bulimus uniascialus Desh.
in Lam.
An.
s.
Vert. Ed.
ii vol.
viii p. 277 1838 Reeve Conch.
Icon. XXIII fig.
149 bad 1848.
Pfr. Mon.
Hel.
viv.
II.
p. 195 1848.
Smith P. Z. S. 1877 p. 72.
Bulimulus unifasciatus Beck Index p. 67 1838.
Bulimulus  Oniphalostyla unifasciatus H.  A.
Ads. Gen. Rec Moll. II p. 1611855.
Bulimulus Nesiotes unifasciatus Martens in Albers ed.
ii p. 220 1860.
Bulimulus Ncesiotus unifasciatus Pfr.
Nom.
Hel.
viv. p. 254 1881 Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI p. 427 1893.
Bulimulus unifasciatus Reibisch Isis 1892. p. 3 syn.
 but not p. 20 pi.
i fig.
1 nux var..
James Island under lava Cuming in Lea Collection  Chatham Island near the southwest end at a height of about 1600 feet Dr. Baur  Chatham Island Kellett  Charles Island Cuming and H. M. S. Peterel.
Jaw thin horn colored arcuate of equal height throughout with blunt ends  anterior surface with about 14 broad crowded flattish ribs reinforced along their outer edges  the ends of the ribs broadi squarely denticulating the upper and lower margin of the jaw.
Radula long thin narrow  formula 1  rhachidian tooth 8412128 stout tricuspid with very short lateral cusps  perfect laterals about tvvelve in number bicuspid with very short outer cusps marginals low wide with a long bifid inner cusp outside of which the cutting edge is broken up into four or five denticles of nearly equal length.
In its thin and ample shell uniform reddishbrown color and narrow welldefined peripheral pale band this form resembles the species of the mainland more than any other Galapagos species.
The transverse riblets on the nepionic shell are very fine and almost always decorticated  the granular spirals are almost microscopic and when fresh and perfect bear small projections of the periostracum.
Bnlimulus Nsesiotus Simrothi Reibisch.
Plate XVI figs.
11 12 13  Plate XVII fig.
2.
Biilimnus  A'cFsioiits Siinrothi Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 11 t. 2 fig.
2 Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI pp.
414 428 18H3.
Bulimuhis Nccsiotits tortuganus Dall Nautilus VII p. 54 1893.
La Tortuga grassy zone.
South Albemarle Baur 10002000 feet in the moist region Albemarle Island Wolf.
Herr Reibisch has kindly furnished a photograph of one of his types of B. Simroihi with which I have compared my specimens of tortuganus.
Wolf's shell in the photograph appears smoother without the deeply indented markings and exhibits color streaks in harmony with the lines of growth which none of the specimens of tortuganus do.
Nevertheless the two forms should probably be united especially as Reibisch's description agrees better than the photograph as respects surface and color.
As the specimens collected by Wolf were more or less immature the original diagnosis needs some additional data.
Jaw light horn colored thin membranaceous arcuate of equal height throughout and with the ends blunt anterior surface with about 17 rather narrow flat crowded ribs with thickened outer edges the upper and lower margins of the jaw bluntly denticulated by the squarish ends of the ribs.
Radula of the same type as in the species previously mentioned.
I have figured several specimens to show the variations of form and sculpture.
When mature the shell always has a pretty solidly thickened peristome.
The young are more translucent and show projecting points of epidermis along the minute granular spiral lines as in B. wdfasciatus and like that species show a distinct peripheral paler band.
Bulimulus Naesiotus Bauri Dall.
Plate XV fig.
12 Plate XVII figs.
7 15.
Bulimuhis Nicsiotus Bauri2X. Nautilus VII p. 54 September 1893.
Hibernating on the under side of leaves of plants at the southwest end of Chatham Island 1600 feet above the sea.
Dr. Baur.
Jaw thin light horn colored arcuate of equal height throughout with blunt ends  anterior surface with about 12 broad flat crowded ribs their outer edges reinforced and their ends bluntly denticulating the upper and lower edges of the jaw.
Radula long and narrow  formula about 1  rachidian 159915 tooth and nine perfect laterals differing little from those of the other species already described  marginals with the inner cusp broad and bifid or at the extreme margin trifid the outer cusp broken up more or less irregularly into several denticles or groups of denticles.
Genitalia essentially as in B. mix.
This is a very distinct little species with a pale yellowbrown body whorl darkening toward the tip of the spire with conspicuous lighter transverse wrinkles on the upper whorls and fine ribbing on the nepionic shell which is of a livid purple almost black.
In specimens which have survived hibernation the aperture is usually produced contracted and conspicuously thickened.
Many specimens have a narrow pale line in front of the suture.
There is no spiral sculpture.
Bulimulus Naesiotus amastroides Ancey.
Plate XV fig.
16.
Bulinmlus Nesiotm amastroides Ancey Bull.
Soc.
Mai.
de France IV p. 293 1887.
Bulimuhis jacobi Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI pp.
381 426 1893 not of Sby.
Bulimulus calvus var.

Stearns op.
cit. p. 427.
Chatham Island U. S. Fish Commission.
This is the smooth form of which the plicate aspect is B. curtus of .Reibisch and Anceyi of Dall.
Jaw membranaceous horn colored 29 low wide thin of equal height throughout ends terminating bluntly  anterior surface with about 22 broad crowded ribs their outer edges thickened their ends bluntly denticulating the upper and lower margins of the jaw.
The shell has an olivaceous tint which distinguishes it at once from the mostly reddish or yellowishbrown species of which the fauna contains so many.
Bulimulus Naesiotus curtus Reibisch.
Plate XV fig.
13 Plate XVII fig.
8.
Bulifntihis Ncrsioitis curttis Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 9 t. i fig.
14.
Bulwiulns Nasioiiis aniastroides Ancey var.
Anceyi Dall Nautilus VII p. 53 September 1893.
Chatham Island near Wreck Bay at a height of 1600 feet Baur  usually on the under surface of the leaves of plants.
Also reported from Chatham by Wolf Reibisch in grassy places and on the trunks of trees at from 900 to 2000 feet and by the U. S. Fish Commission.
This is very closely related to B. amastroides Ancey of which it is probably an offshoot.
It has in general a more plicate surface ruder aspect smaller mouth and more angular periphery.
Specimens submitted by Herr Reibisch as representing his curtus agree exactly with the types of my variety Ancey i. Jaw as in typical amastroides.
Radula long and narrow  formula 1  rhachidian tooth tricuspid  laterals tricuspid  both 119911 with the lateral cusps quite short  marginals subquadrate low widej with a longer bifid inner cusp and an outer shorter cutting edge with three or four denticles upon it.
Genitalia essentially as in B. nux.
Bulimulus Naesiotus canaliferus Reibisch.
Plate XV fig.
14.
Bulimuhts Pelecosloma canaliferus Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 13 t. ii fig.
6 Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI pp.
415 428 1893.
Chatham Island in moss and on ferns 9002000 feet Wolf fide Reibisch.
This is a peculiar shell characterized by its manywhorled spire short aperture and a large umbilicus with its walls deeply excavated so that the groove shows as a prominent ridge on the pillar within the aperture.
In the specimen sent by Herr Reibisch the edge of the aperture is hardly thickened and not at all reflected there is a thin callus deposit over the body but no trace of a parietal tooth.
The species with a totally different surface has somewhat the form of B. rugiferus but with a less slender and shorter spire.
Reibisch's figure gives the impression of a more slender shell than the specimen I have examined.
Bulimulus Naesiotus sculp turatus Pfeiffer.
Bulinms sculptnratus Pfr. P. Z. S. 1846 p. 29 Gal.
Is..
Mon.
Hel.
viv. II p. 183 1848  IV p. 476 1859.
Bidimus Ncesiottis sculptnratus Pfr. Mai.
Blatt.
ii.
Vers. p. 161 1854.
Bulimus sculptnratus 'ReQve Conch.
Icon. pi.
XX fig.
125 1848.
Bulimulus  Omphalostyla sculpturatui H.  A.
Ads. Gen. Eec.
Moll. ii p. 161 1855.
Bulimulus Nesiotes sculptnratus Martens in Albers Heliceen Ed.
ii p. 220 1860.
Bulimulus NcBsiotus sctdptui atus Pfr. Nona.
Hel.
viv. p. 254 1881  Keibisch Isis p. 10 1892  Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. xvi p. 427 1893.
The particular island to which this species collected by Darwin belongs is not known.
I have not been able to obtain a specimen for examination.
Reeve's figure recalls a specimen of B. Simrothi in which the lip has not yet been developed fully but if his measurement is correct the shell should be a little larger as well as more slender than in B. Simrothi.
Bulimulus Naesiotus rugiferus Sowerby.
Bulimus rngierns Shy. P. Z. S. 1833 p. 36 James Id.
 Conch.
111. fig.
40 1833.
Cochlicellns rugifer'SiQck Index p. 63 No.
11 1838.
Bulimus rtigiferus Desh.
in Lam.
An.
s.
Vert. Ed.
ii vol.
viii p. 276.
1838.
Pfr.
Mon.
Hel.
viv. II p. 115 1848.
Reeve Conch.
Icon. XX fig.
118 1848.
Bulimulus Omphalostyla rugiferus H. fe A.
Ad. Gen. Eec.
Moll. II p. 161 1855.
Bulimulus Nesiotes rugiferus Martens in Albers ed.
ii p. 220 1860.
Bulimulus JVcFsictus rugiferus Pfr. Nom.
Hel.
viv. p. 254 1881.
Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 9.
Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI p. 427 1893.
James Island Cuming.
This species is related to B. nesioticus and B. Reibischi from both of which it is distinguished ly details of form.
I have seen a number of specimens but all were from the original series in the Cumin gian Collection.
Bulimulus Naesiotus nesioticus Dall n. s. Plate XVI fig.
1.
Shell small thin pale brown with two nepionic and five subsequent whorls  spire slender suture distinct umbilicus small or obsolete apex rather blunt with an axial dimple nepionic whorls transversely ribbed with fine even regular riblets with about equal interspaces  the next whorl is sculptured with fine spirals close set under which are fine transverse wrinkles the subsequent whorls show a more or less variable transverse ribbing in which the ribs have a tendency to break up and vary in direction  these are crossed by fine often granulose spirals which are swollen where they cross the riblets  aperture small throat yellowish the pillar white widely reflected without any terminal plait or callus outer lip thickened somewhat expanded continuous with the pillar and a slight callus on the body.
Length 12 breadth 5 mm.
James Island 'U.
S. Fish Commission.
This interesting species was obtained on James Island in small numbers one specimen fresh but none living the one figured has rather sparser ribbing than the best preserved specimen.
Most of them are bleached white.
The shell appears to be intermediate in character and size between B. sculpturatus as figured and B. rugiferus Sby.
It was at first referred to the latter species but further study showed B. nesioticus to have two whorls less in the same length and to be a perceptibly stouter shell.
Bulimulus Nsesiotus Reibischi Dall.
Plate XVI fig.
4.
Buliiimhcs Nasiottis Reibischi Tdi Nautihis viii p. 126 March 1895.
Shell elevated slender with nine whorls of a pale ferruginous color and rather solid consistency  sculpture like that of B. nesioticus but rather more closely ribbed  the suture distinct somewhat appressed whorls little inflated but not flattened  umbilicus a mere chink  aperture oval higher than wide rounded in front the pillar simple the margins thickened but not reflected length 11.0 diameter 2.5 mm.
Indefatigable Island two specimens U. S. Fish Commission.
This shell though shorter is intermediate between such forms as B. chemnitzioides and the more normal Niesioti.
It is named in honor of Herr Paul Reibisch of Dresden who recently worked up the land shells collected by Wolf in these islands in a paper to which I have made frequent reference.
Bulimulus new species.
Plate XV fig.
15.
Shell of about nine whorls small slender with flattish sides almost cylindrical transversely finely wrinkled suture distinct aperture small the outer lip sharp the pillar lip short broadly reflected without plait or projecting callus  length 11.5 breadth 2.5 mm.
One specimen found on James and two on Indefatigable Island Reibisch m litt.
The above description and figure are taken from a photograph kindly submitted to me by Herr Reibisch.
I refrain from naming the species as the last mentioned gentleman had over two years ago announced his intention of describing it but has so far I believe published nothing referring to it.
As a distinct form from any previously reported from these islands I have thought best to briefly indicate it.
Bulimulus NsBsiotus chemnitzioides Forbes.
Plate XVII fig.
4.
Bulimus chemttUzioides Fbs. P. Z. S. 1850 p. 55 piix fig.
6 Pfr. Mon.
Hel.
Viv. Ill p. 303 1853 Kiister in Chemn.
Conch.
Cab. ed.
ii Bulimus No.
113 pi.
31 figs.
2123.
Bulimus Nesioius chemnitzioides Pfr. Vers.
Malak.
Blatt. p. 160 1855  Bulimulus  Omphalostyda chemnitzioides H.  A.
Ads. Gen. Rec.
Moll. ii p. 161 1855.
Bulimulus Pleuropyrgus chemnitzioides Martens in Albers Heliceen ed.
ii p. 221 1860 Pfr. Norn.
Hel.
Viv. p. 254 1881  Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 12 t. ii fitr.
4 Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI p. 381 1893.
Bulimulus Fleuropyrgus lima Reibisch Isis 1892 p. 13 t. ii fig.
5.
On Chatham Island at 300600 feet elevation with B. perspectivus Pfr. on rocks and under stones Wolf on the leaves of plants at 1600 feet elevation near the southwest end of Chatham Island Dr. Baur  also Kellett Habel and the U. S. Fish Commission.
The younger specimens named lima by Reibisch though apparently differing somewhat in form appear to grade directly into the others.
This species sometimes shows a small but distinct parietal tooth or callosity but this is quite exceptional.
Jaw almost membranous thin light horncolored slightly arcuate of almost equal height throughout low wide with blunt ends and margins bluntly denticulated by the broad ends of the ribs  anterior surface with about 20 broad flat ribs reinforced at their outer edges and separated by very narrow interstices.
Radula long and narrow formula about 1  rhachidian 228822 tooth tricuspid as in the other species  perfect laterals about eight on each side bicuspid  marginals low wide with one inner long bicuspid cutting point and a shorter wide outer cutting edge broken up into three or more denticles.
The specimens examined anatomically were so much shrunken by the alcohol and had genitalia so little developed that they could not be satisfactorily dissected.
This species is connected so closely by such forms as B. Relbischi and B. rugiferus with the typical Ncesioti that it is obvious that they should be referred to the same section of the genus.
The nepionic whorls are usually decorticated and smooth but when perfect show the usual transverse ribbing.
Bulimulus Naesiotus Habeli Stearns Bidimulus Pleuropyrgus Habeli Stearns MS. Dall Nautilus Jan. 1892 p. 99 Stearns Nautilus Dec 1892 p. 86 Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. xvi pp.
382 428 1893.
Bulimulus Pleuropyrgus frfraReibisch Isis Oct. 1892 p. 14 t. ii fig.
3.
Chatham Island Habel U. S. Fish Commission Steamer Albatross and Dr. G. Baur under stones near the shore at the southwest end of the island typical form  Chatham Island under stones and on mossy rocks in the moist region 9002000 feet above the sea Wolf fide Reibisch B. terehra.
The specimen of B. terehra submitted by Herr Reibisch is slightly larger more dull colored and has a more evident umbilicus than the typical specimens of Habeli which were obtained in a more unfavorable station but the differences do not appear to be sufficient to be worthy of a specific name at least judging from the material I have been able to study.
No specimens of B. Habeli contaiuing the soft parts have been received by me.
The nepionic whorls are usually decorticated and smooth but when perfect show extremely fine transverse ribbing.
In the single specimen I have seen of the variety terehra Reibisch the nepionic ribbing is coarser and more evident.
Pupa Leucooheila 
Wolfii Miller.
Plate XVII fig.
14.
Pupa Leucochila' Wolfii Miller Reibisch Isis 1892 pt.
3 p. 15 t. ii fig.
11.
Ptipa Leucochila' munita Reibisch Isis 1892 pt.
3 p. 15 t. ii fig 9. 
Pupa Eyriesii Drouet Essai Moll.
Terr.
Guyane Franfaise p. 71 pi.
ii fig.
1617 1859.
Guayaquil Ecuador Wolf fide Reibisch op.
cit.
 Albemarle Island on bushes near the shore.
Wolf on bones of dead tortoises Albemarle Island Baur  on the trunks of trees IletlaMer French Guiana Drouet.
Several specimens of a minute Pwpa were obtained by Dr. Baur adhering to dry bones picked up on Albemarle Island According to their age these show the following denticles in the aperture  1.
On the body is a deeply grooved prominent tooth which in some specimens is so far bifid as to appear like two slender teeth close to each other this is present on all the specimens  2.
On the pillar well up near the body a small but very distinct horizontal lamella present in all specimens but less developed in the younger ones  3.
Well within the lip is a series of small short denticles side by side longer in the direction of the whorls  the first almost vertically below the parietal denticle is small the next to the right close to it is higher slightly bifid at the tip when most completely developed and longer in an anteroposterior direction than either of the others  the third is small like the first and the fourth and last in any of the specimens seen is still smaller and appears only after the others are well developed.
The figure of P. Wolfii given by Reibisch shows the parietal columellar and three basal denticles in the figure of P. viimita the fourth basal and another denticle in the angle between the body and the pillar have appeared.
Drouet's figure of P. Eyriesii has the parietal tooth represented as double while the columellar tooth is present only two of the basal denticles appear.
All these figures are poor and the resemblance between them allowing for bad drawing are so close and the diflferences between the actual specimens I have studied are so great that I am strongly inclined to believe they will all prove to be the stages of one and the same species.
Even Reibisch's P. clausa which is somewhat smaller than those above referred to shows differences of denticulation from P. Wolfii not greater than are observable in the different ages of some North American species.
Pupa Leucocheila 
clausa Reibisch.
fupa Leucochila clausa Reibisch Isis 1892 pt.
3 p.. 15 pi.
II fig.
10.
On bushes near the sea.
Indefatigable Island Wolf.
This form differs from the most fully developed P. Wolfii in having one more denticle on the pillar near its base in having the other teeth more strongly developed and in being slightly smaller.
According to Reibisch it has 4t whorls while P. Wolfiimunita has from 5 to 5i turns.
It is so diflScult to fix on a common point in settling where the first apical whorl ends that I do not put much confidence in differences of less than a full turn.
It can only be decided by study of a large number of specimens whether this species is distinct from the P. Wolfii or not and at present the material is not accessible Herr Reibisch wrote in February 1894 that he had three or four Avell differentiated species of Pupa from different islands but so far I have not noticed any publication of them and have not been able for eighteen months to obtain any information as to the whereabouts of Herr Reibisch himself.

Trochomorpha Bauri Dall.
Plate XV figs.
8 9.
Zonites Hyalinia Bauri Dall Nautilus V p. 98 Jan. 1892.
South Albemarle Island on weathered bones of tortoises.
Dr. Baur.
The single specimen of this interesting form is not quite adult and the slight angulation at the periphery may be lost in the fully mature shell.
The fine spiral striation which characterizes the species recalls that of several Polynesian species.
The close resemblance to T. calculosa Gould of Tahiti leads to the query as to whether the unnamed  Helix  collected by Darwin and said to be identical with a Tahitian species not named may not have been this species.
It can only provisionally be referred to the group Trochomorpha as the animal is unknown.
Conulus galapaganus Dall.
Plate XV fig.
11.
Conuhis galapagajius Dall Nautilus VII p. 55 Sept. 1893.
Under leaves at 1600 feet elevation southwest end of Chatham Island Dr. Baur.
This species is close to C. fulvus but has five whorls to four in a specimen of fulvus of the same diameter.
It has a very well marked suture and the whorls between the sutures are more convex than in fulvus.
The height is greater in C. galapaganus in proportion to the number of whorls.
It seems to differ from C. fulvus and related forms by its smaller size very brilliant surface inflated whorls and number of turns.
It has no spiral striation like that of T. Bauri and in short seems like an elevated dwarfed inflated C. fulvus.
Vitrea chathamensis Dall.
Plate XV figs.
3 10.
Hyalinia Chatham etisis Dall Nautilus VII p. 54 1893.
On dead leaves at an elevation of 1600 feet southwest end of Chatham Island Dr. Baur.
This is a small thin straw colored shell much like V. arborea Say depressed with four rounded whorls a distinct suture the polished surface sculptured with numerous slightly flexuous radial indented lines  the umbilicus is deep exhibiting all the volutions but rather narrow.
The aperture is like that of H. arborea.
Sucoinea Bettii Smith.
Plate XV fig.
6.
Succinea Bettii Smith P. Z. S. 1877 p. 72 t. xi fig.
8.
Succinea Wolfi Reibisch Isis 1892 pt.
3 p. 16 t. 2. fig.
12 ab.
Charles Island H. M. S. Peterel U. S. Fish Commission  James Island at James Bay Dr. G. Baur  Chatham Island 9002000 feet in the moist region among moss and stones and on herbage.
Wolf South Albemarle Island 
on dry bones of turtles young specimens only Dr. Baur.
This species very closely resembles the British S. putris the specimen figured by Jeffreys in his British Conchology might almost be interchanged with a specimen from James Island as regards its general form.
The Galapagos shell however has a less even surface being somewhat irregularly wrinkled with a dull unpolished aspect.
Succinea brevior Smith.
Plate XV fig.
4  Plate XVI fig.
8  Plate XVII fig.
9.
Succinea Bettii var.
brevior xa P. Z. S. 1877 p. 77.
Succifiea brevior jyW Nautilus VII p. 56 Sept. 1893.
Found near Black Beach Charles Island at about 1000 feet elevation on the stems of sJirubbery  the stems were of a grayishbrown color covered with small lichens.
Dr. Baur.
Jaw arched high thick horncolored the ends acuminate and recurved anterior surface Avithoutribs cutting edge with a median projection  upper interior margin with a quadrate insertion plate as usual in the genus.
Radula long and narrow formula 1  rhachidian tooth 246624 tricuspid  on each side six bicuspid laterals each with the usual thinning on the lower edge of the base of attachment  marginals low and wide the inner cusp larger and longer bifid the outer cusp with several denticles  the extreme laterals lose the distinction between the cusps and show a somewhat irregularly serrate cutting edge.
This species closely resembles a small specimen oi S. obliqua Say its color is less ruddy and paler than in S. producta but the apex is even more vividly rosy  the axis is pervious in the last whorl but not as in S. Bettii clear to the summit of the shell.
It is readily distinguished from either of the other Galapagos species by its short rather blunt spire.
Succinea producta Reibisch.
Plate XV fig.
7  Plate XVI fig.
10  Plate XVII fig.
5.
Succinea  Tapada Wolfi var.
rj'iYrt Reibisch Isis 1892 pt.
3 p. 16 t. ii fig.
12 c. Chatham Island 9002000 feet elevation in moist places among moss and stones Wolf southwest end of Chatham Island on damp lava rocks of a blackish color often covered with very small lichens.
Dr. Baur.
Jaw light horncolor strong thick high strongly arched with the ends rapidly shortened to a point the interior upper margin with the usual quadrate insertion plate  anterior surface without ribs the cutting edge with a short wide mesial projection.
Radula long and narrow formula about 1  rhachidian 26141426 tooth tricuspid  14 perfect laterals with two rather widely separated cusps the outer shorter  the lower edge of the base of attachment thinned out as usual in the genus  marginals low wide bicuspid the cusps subdivided into minor denticles giving a serrate look to the outer marginals.
This species is of a reddishyellow color with the apex of a pronounced rosy tint the surface somewhat rough as in S. Bettii from which it differs by its more produced spire and the manner in which the outer lip is bent over so as to reach the body whorl vertically instead of obliquely.
Only young and very few even of the young are quite as slender as the one figured by Reibisch.
The outer lip in fully adult specimens is more expanded than in S. Bettii both have a gyrate and pervious axis but the S. Bettii has it more open than the other species.
Succinea corbis Dall.
Plate XV fig.
6.
Succhiea corbis Dall Nautilus VII p. 55 Sept. 1893.
South Albemarle Island on dry bones of turtles Dr. Baur.
Shell small of two and a half whorls to which a black mould adheres with tenacity.
The first whorl and a half are salmonpink in the adult but in the young of that size are pale amber colored.
The shell resembles S. produeta in form but is smaller and has a more contracted aperture it is instantly recognized when examined with a good lens by its surface which is minutely shagreened all over with an excessively fine network of closely reticulated incised lines.
Alt.
of shell 7 max.
diam.
45 extreme length of aperture 4 mm.
The remarkable sculpture is not visible to the naked eye except as a sort of hoary bloom on the surface  under a compound microscope it looks like closely woven basket work.
I have examined a great many Succineas without finding any other species possessing this character but from the description S.solidula Pfr.
from Christmas Island in the Indian Ocean must have somewhat such a surface.
Mr. Edgar A. Smith P. Z. S. 1887 p. 518 states that S. solidula has  the texture of very fine linen or minute crisscross lines which fairly well describes the surface of S. corbis.
S. solidula exhibits the further peculiarity of having a slight but evident internal thickening of the peristome but as the specimens of S. corbis are all evidently immature or not fully grown they would show nothing of such a character even if the fully adult possesses it.
A close examination of the black earthy substance with Avhich the shells are nearly covered leads to the suspicion that it is composed of the execreta of the animal itself as it is laid on in little sausagelike or subcylindrical masses and attached by a dry substance recalling the silvery streaks left by crawling slugs.
Leptinaria chathamensis Dall.
Plate XVI fig.
9 Plate XVII fig.
16.
Leptinaria chathamensis Dall Nautilus V p. 98 1892  Stearns Proc U. S. Nat.
Mus. xvi pp.
418 428 1893.
BiiHmulus Felecostoma cymatoferiis Reibisch Isis 1892 pt.
3 p. 14 t. ii fig.
7.
Chatham Island on ferns 16002000 feet above the sea Dr Baur  also on dry bones of tortoises.
South Albemarle Island Baur.
Shell small horncolored with a blunt apex and six rounded whorls  suture very distinct surface polished delicately marked with lines of growth  base rounded relatively rather widely umbilicated  aperture with the margin hardly thickened rounded in front and at the suture  pillar broad thin  body with a single elevated thin sharp lamina extending spirally inward from a point a little behind the peristome and nearly equidistant from the inner and outer lips alt.
of shell 3.0 max.
diani.
1.6 mm.
Analogous forms are found in the mountains of the Panamic resrion and on several of the Pacific Islands.
As all the American species are believed to belong to Leptinaria as distinguished from Tornatellina I have no hesitation in referring this species to the American type.
The radula of this form is extremely minute and difficult to find when boiled out in liquor potassse.
I sacrificed several specimens without success and the tooth figured is from a sketch by Mr. Binney.
His slide has deteriorated so much in keeping that I have been unable to find the radula upon it after long scrutiny.
Helicina Idesa nesiotica Dall.
Plate XV figs.
1 2  Plate XVII fig.
12.
Helicma Idesa nesiotica Dall Nautilus V p. 97 Jan. 1892 Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. xvi p. 418 1893.
Helicina Wolfi Keibisch Isis 1892 pt.
3 p. 17 t. ii fig.
13 Stearns Proc.
U.
S Nat.
Mus. xvi p. 416 1893.
On the leaves of plants 1600 feet in elevation near the S.W. end of Chatham Island Dr. Baur  Albemarle Island Reibisch in Hit.
Shell small depressed with rounded periphery base moderately convex and peristome not thickened nor reflected  epidermis of a bright reddish chestnut polished but with obvious regular incremental lines  base with a thin white callus merging into the lower lip without notch or angle  spire depresssd suture very distinct.
not channelled  operculum smooth whitish angulated only at the upper extreme  alt.
of shell 2.3 max.
diam.
3.3 mm.
This was the first species of the family to be reported from the Galapagos.
The type is not known from the west slope of the Andes though it would be rash to infer that it may not yet be found there  it is present in the Panamic province.
Though first obtained from Chatham Island Herr Reibisch writes that he has now received examples from the Albemarle Island An examination of the radula shows points of interest.
The rhachidian tooth has a distinct cusp which is wanting in the Helicinas heretofore figured there are one major and three minor laterals.
The inner pair are channelled on the back and have a simple outwardly directed cusp  the next is smaller with the cusp pointing inward.
The major lateral appears very differently according to the position in which it is viewed.
In the normal position the cusp is large short with about seven subequal denticles the base is plain and without accessory projections  the uncini are numerous closeset simple and very small.
Formula 1 .
X y 3'3  X Auricula stagnalis Orbigny.
Auricula stagnalis Orbigny Mag.
de Zool. 1835 p. 23 No.
3.
Auricula gratiidina Anton Verz. p. 48 1839.
Auricula papillifera Kiister Auric p. 25 t. 3. figs.
9 10 1844.
Elloli7tn grafiuiimrm H.  A. Adams P. Z. S. 1854 p. 7.
Ellobium stanale H.  A. Adams Gen. Rec.
Moll. ii. p. 238  Wimmer Sitzb.
k. Akad.
Wiss. Wien Bd.
Ixxx p. 44 No.
87 1879.
Panama and Guayaquil Orbigny and Adams  Tumaco Island Cuming  Bindloe Island Habel fide Wimmer.
Melampus trilineatus C. B. Adams.
Auricula trilitteata Adams Pan.
Shells Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist. N. Y. Y pp.
436 543 1852.
Melampus trilineatus Pfeiffer Men.
Auric p. 44 1856 Wimmer Sitzb.
k. Akad.
Wiss. Wien Ixxx p. 44 1879.
Panama Adams Hood Island Habel fide Wimmer.
Tralia panamensis C. B. Adams.
Auricula panamensis Adams Pan.
Shells Ann.
Lye Nat.
Hist. N. Y. V pp.
433 542 1852.
Tralia panamensis H.  A. Adams P. Z. S. 1854 p. 10  Wimmer op.
cit. p. 451879.
Hood and Charles Islands Habel fide Wimmer Panama and Taboga C. B. Adams Cocos Island U. S. Fish Commission.
Genus PEDIPES Adanson Scopoli.
Pedipes Adanson Scopoli Intr.
Hist.
Nat. p. 392 1777.
Pedipes angulatus C. B. Adams.
Pedipes angiilata C. B. Adams Pan.
Shells Ann.
Lye Nat.
Hist. N. Y. V pp.
431 542 1852.
Pedipes angulatiis Pfeiffer Novit.
Conch. I p. 24 t. 6 figs.
2628 1854 Wimmer op.
cit. p. 45 1879.
Panama Adams  Bindloe Island Galapagos Habel fide Wimmer.
Genus SIPHONARIA Sowerby.12 Siphonaria gigas Sowerby.
Stpionaria gigas Sowerhy Tank.
Cat. p. vi.
No.
808 1825 Keeve Conch.
Icon. Spionarza pi.
1 fig.
3.
SipAonaria characterhtica Reeve op.
cit. pi.
2 figs.
8 ab.
Charles Island U. S. Fish Commission  Peru Coeos Island Panama and north to the Gulf of California.
Genus WILLIAMIA Monterosato.
Ancylus sp.
 Gussoni Costa Cat. p. 20 1829 Scacchi Cat. p. 18 1836.
Patella sp.
Phil. Enum.
Moll.
Sicil. I p. 255 1836 II p. 84 1844.
Nacella sp.
Cpr. Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 1864 I p. 474 No.
15 Cooper Geogr.
Cat.
Moll. Gala. p. 23 1867.
Siphonaria Liriola sp.
Dall Am.
Journ.
Conch. VI p. 37 1870.
Pilisats subg.
Allerya Morch Journ.
de Conchyl. Vol.
XXV p. 210 1877.
Not Allerya Bourguignat Atti Accad.
Sci.
Let.
ed.
Arti.
di Palermo VI pp.
17 1876.
Scutulnm Monterosato Ann.
Mus.
Civ. Genova IX p. 427 1877.
Not Sciitulum Tournouer Bull.
Soc.
Geol.
de France 1869 Echinidce.
Liriola sp.
Dall Journ.
de Conchyl. XXVI p. 68 1878.
Anisomyon 
Dall Journ.
de Conchyl. XXVII p. 287 1879  
Meek.
Am Journ.
Sci.
 Arts 2 XXIX p. 33 pi.
1 1860.
 Gadinia sp.
Jeflfreys Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 1870 p. 11.
Williamia Monterosato Nom.
Conch.
Medit. p. 150 1884.
Umbrella sp.
Cossmann Cat.
Coq.
Fos.
env.
Paris IV p. 326 1891.
Parascutuju Cossmann Cat.
Coq.
Fos.
env.
Paris V p. 78 1892.
Type W. Gussoni Costa of the Mediterranean and Azores other species are the W. Krebsii Morch West Indies W. vernalis Dall Monterey Cala. W. peltoides Cpr. of the Gulf of California and south to the Galapagos.
The synonymy of this interesting little genus of Sip ho7iariidE had become so complicated that it seemed best to take this opportunity of clearing it up.
The wide distribution of the species is partly due to their habit of perching on floating seaweeds.
12 Siphonaria saitelltan Deshayes was referred to the Galapagos Islands by Carpenter owing to a confusion between its true locality Chatham Island.
New Zealand with the Galapagos Chatham Island.
This species according to Deshayes is identical with S. obliquata Sby.
described sixteen years earlier in the Tankerville Catalogue.
Williamia peltoides Carpenter.
Nacella peltoides Carpenter Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 1864 i p. 474 No.
15 Suppl.
Kep.
Brit.
Assoc 1863 pp.
418 545.
Nacella sttbspiralis Carpenter Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci. iii p. 213 1866  Suppl.
Rep. Brit.
Assoc 1863 pp.
612 640.
Siphonaria Liriola peltoides Dall Am.
Journ.
Conch. vi p. 37 1870 Journ.
de Conchyl. xxvi p. 68 Jan. 1878.
Anisomyon peltoides Dall Journ.
de Conchyl. xxvii p. 288 Oct. 1879.
A'acella subspiralis Wimmer Sitzb.
k. Akad.
Wiss. Wieri Ixxx p. 41 1879.
Siphonaria  Williamia' peltoides Stearns Proc U. S. Nat.
Mus. xvi p584 1893.
Chatham Charles and Hood Islands dead on the beach Dr. llabel  northward to Panama Mazatlan Cape St. Lucas San Diego and the Santa Barbara Islands California.
The variety vernalis Dall which will require to be specifically separated from peltoides extends from the Santa Barbara Islands northward to Monterey Purissima Lobitas and Crescent City California.
It is much larger than either of the others.
The Nacella subspiralis and peltoides of Carpenter are undoubtedly conspecific with the Galapagos shell which from its perching habit on fronds of Laminaria may be widely distributed by ocean currents.
The well known Ancylus Gussoni of Costa belonging to the South European fauna is congeneric and from the shells alone it is doubtful if the species could be separated.
The W. Krebsii of Morch is extremely similar and it is possible that all three should be specifically united but until the anatomy has been compared it is probably best to keep them distinct.
I figured the dentition and jaw of W. vernalis and W. Gussoni in the Journal de Conchy liologie in 1878 and 1879 showing specific differences between them but the West Indian and West American tropical .forms have not yet been examined.
M. Cossmann has described a species W. Raincourti from the Eocene of Chaumout Paris Basin which differs from the recent species in being radially striate  this seems to partially bridge the gaj between the latter and the upper Cretaceous Anisomyon.
Onchidium Leslie
Steams.
Onihidiitm Lesliei Stearns Nautilus VI p. 87 Dec 1892 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI No.
942 p. 383 pi.
51 figs.
2 3 1893.
Living between tide marks on Charles and Albemarle Islands U. S. Fish Commission.
Dr. Stearns' description is as follows   Form rounded ovate nearly as broad as long.
Dorsum coriaceous nearly black shiny closely irregularly reticulated with finely incised lineation and otherwise characterized by somewhat distant flatly rounded papillae.
Under side dingy yellowish white  margin of mantle wide nearly smooth  edge of same simple.
Anal opening posterior near edge of mantle and somewhat produced.
Respiratory orifice smaller in median line with and in front of anus  sexual orifice anterior on the right side under the edge of the large oral hood or collar labial palpi thin largely expanded.
Dimensions Length 37.5  breadth 31.5 millimeters.
These proportions vary slightly in different individuals.
Onohidella Steindachneri Semper.
Onchidella Steindachneri Semper Arch.
Phil.
Bd.
Ill Heft.
VI p. 295 1883 Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVI p. 384 pi.
51 figs.
4 5 1893.
Charles Island Habel  Charles and Albemarle Islands between tidemarks U. S. Fish Commission.
Dr. Stearns' remarks are as follows   A well marked species  edge of mantle prettily fringed on the under side with rather regularly placed trifoliate processes  dorsum entirely covered with closely set rounded granular papillse which also cover the surface of the wide mantle margin beneath up to the dge of the creeping disk.
Color dark grayish or smoky black above  dingy whitish on the under side.
Anal orifice posterior central just behind the end of the creeping disk
Respiratory orifice on the right side near the vent  sexual orifice anterior near the tentacle or oral appendage under the edge on the right side.
Length about 20 breadth about 17 millimeters.
These proportions vary somewhat in different specimens.
Some allowance must be made for the contraction caused by the alcohol in both the above and 0.
Lesliei.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
SowERBY George Brettingham.
Conchological Illustrations Bulinus parts 31 34 35 and 142 183341.
London G. B. Sowerbv 18418.
This work was issued in parts and when completed the letter press or portions of it was reprinted and the whole icsued as a volume dated 1841.
The parts in the copies which I have seen do not have any dates but Pfeiffer cites the list of Bulinus as 1833 Mon.
Hel.
Viv. i p. xxxii 1848.
It is probable that part 142 containing B. rugulosvs was issued in 1839 but the plates containing the other Galapagos species may be as early as 1833.
SowERBY George Brettingham.
Descriptions of new species of shells collected by Hugh Cuming.
Proc.
Zool.
Society of London 1833 part i pp.
7274.
This article contains descriptions of several species of Bulimulus afterward figured in the Conchological Illustrations.
Broderip William John.
Description of new species of shells collected by Hugh Cuming.
Proc.
Zool.
Society of London 1832 p. 125.
Though this is the first reference to Cuming's Galapagos land shells only one species B. mix is described from Charles Island.
Pfeiffer Dr. Ludwig.
Description of thirty new species of Helicea belonging to the collection of H. Cuming Esq.
Proc.
Zool.
Society of London 1846 pp.
2829.
This article describes two new species of Bulimulus collected by Charles Darwin at the Galapagos Islands.
Darwin Charles.
Journal of Researches into the Natural History and Geology of the countries visited during the voyage of H. M. S. Beagle round the world under the command of Captain Fitz RoyR.
N. New York D. Appleton  Co. 1882 8.
X 519 pp.
from the second English edition of 1860.
See Chapter xvii pp.
872401 and especially the notes on mollusca pp.
39091.
This celebrated work first appeared in parts 184445 and was published by Murray.
The  Zoology of the Beagle  edited by Darwin contains no reference to the mollusca collected.
Forbes Prof. Edward.
On the species of mollusca collected during the surveying voyages of the Herald and Pandora by Captain Kellett R. N. C. B. and Lieutenant Wood R. N. Proc.
Zool.
Society of London 1850 pp.
5356.
In this article the Bidimulus chevinifzioides and achatellinus Forbes upon which two subgenera have subsequently been founded are described and other species collected at the Galapagos Islands are enumerated with comments.
All are said to have been collected on Chatham Island.
Albers Johann Christian.
Die Heliceen nach naturlicher Verwandtschaft systematisch geordnet.
Berlin Enslin 1850 8 262 pp.
In this volume pp.
1623 the Galapagos Bulimuli are grouped together under the name of Nossiotus.
In the second posthumous edition Leipzig Englemann 1860 issued under the supervision and revision of von Martens Nesiotes is substituted for the earlier name and two of the species set off into new sections  for chemnitzioides the name Pleuropyrgus is proposed and Forbes' achatellinus is removed to Buliminus where it does not belong and made the type of the subgenus Rhaphiellus following Pfeiffer Vers einer Anordnung der Heliceen Malak.
Bliitt ii pp.
112160 1856.
Reeve Lovell.
Conchologia Iconica v Mon.
Bulimus 184850.
London Reeve Ben ham  Reeve 1850 4to.
Most of the species described at that time from the Galapagos are more or less accurately figured in this work.
Carpenter Dr. Philip Pearsall.
Report on the present state of our knowledge with regard to the mollusca of the west coast of North America.
Reirt of the British Association for the Advancement of Science for 1856.
London Taylor  Francis 1857 8.
The mollusks of the Galapagos Islands are discussed and enumerated pp.
35862.
These include twenty species of Pulmonates.
Smith Edgar A.
Account of the Zoological Collection made during the visit of H. M. S. Peterel to the Galapagos Islands.
Mollusca.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1877 pp.
723.
Three of the already known species are enumerated and Suecinea Bettli Smith with its variety hrevior are described as new.
Ancey C. F. Nouvelles contributions malacologiques vi Etudes sur la faune malacologique des iles Galapagos.
Bull.
Soc.
Malac.
de France iv pp.
293299 July 1887.
A new species and several new varieties are described and the fauna briefly discussed.
WiMMER August.
Zur ConchylienFauna der Galapagos Inseln.
Sitzber.
der k. Akad.
der Wissenschaften Wien Bd.
Ixxx pp.
150 Dec 1879.
This paper based chiefly on the shells collected by Dr. Habel refers to two species of Bulimulus and four Auriculidce the latter all new to the fauna.
Dall William Healey.
On some types new to the fauna of the Galapagos Islands.
Nautilus Jan. 1892 Vol.
v pp.
9799.
In this short article the presence of Pupa is announced and Helichia Idem nesiotica Lept'maria chathamensis Zonites Hyalinia Bauri and Bulimulus Pleuropyrgus Habeli Stearns MS. are described from collections made by Drs.
Habel and Baur.
Reibisch Paul.
Die conchyliologische Fauna der Galapagos Inseln.
Abh.
Ges.
Isis in Dresden iii pp.
120 taf.
iii October 1892.
This paper discusses the land shells of the group and is chiefly based upon the collections of Dr. Wolf Government geologist of Ecuador though referring to collections made by others.
A large number of forms supposed to be new are described and figured.
Stearns Dr. R. E. C. Scientific results of explorations by the U. S. Fish Commission Steamer Albatross No.
xxv.
Report on the mollusk fauna of the Galapagos Islands with descriptions of new species.
Proceedings of the U. S. Nat.
Mus. xv No.
942 pp.
353450 pi.
5052 August 1893.
This important paper discusses the mollusk fauna of the islands at large both land and marine forms especially those of shallow water and the shores.
The deeper dredgings from the last expedition are not included and will be worked up later.
References to previous lists of the fauna are very full and the discussion of the land shells includes sonae suggestions of serious importance.
Dall William Healey.
Preliminary notice of new species of land shells from the Galapagos Islands collected by Dr. G. Baur.
Nautilus September 1893 Vol.
vii pp.
5256.
30 In this article Bulimulus Ncesiotus duncanus B amastroides Ancey var.
Anceyi B. jacobl var.
vermiculatus B. olla B. tortuganus B. Bauri Hyalinia chathamensis Conulus galapaganus and Succinea corbis are described as new and the relationship of the Ncesioti to the North American Bulimuli of the type of serperastrus is pointed out.
Dall William He ale y.
New species of land shells from the Galapagos Islands.
Nautilus March 1895 Vol.
viii pp.
1267.
Bidimulus Ncesiotus Reibischi and B. Tannerl are described as new.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES.
Note.
 Since the figures are of different degress of magnification the length of each shell in millimeters follows the reference to each figure.
Plate XV.
Helicina Idesa nesiotlca Dall base lat.
3.7 mm.
 p. 451.
Hellcina Idesa nesioticaDaU jrofile p. 451.
Vitrea chathamensis Dall base lat.
3 mm.
 p. 448.
Succinea brevior Smith alt.
12 mm.
 p. 449.
Succinea corbis Dall alt.
7.0 mm.
 p. 450.
Succinea Bettii Smith alt.
12 mm.
 p. 448.
Succinea producta Reibisch alt.
11.5 mm.
 p. 449.
Trochomorpha f Bauri Dall alt.
1.5 mm.
 p. 447.
Trochomorpha f Bauri Dall base lat.
2.2 mm.
 p. 447.
Vitrea chathamensis Dall lat.
3 mm.
 p. 448.
Conulus galajKiganus Dall lat.
2.5 mm.
 p. 448.
Bulimulus Bauri Dall alt.
10 mm.
 p. 441.
Bulimulus curtus Reibisch alt.
9.6 mm.
 p. 442.
Bulimulus canalijerus Reibisch alt.
9.5 mm.
 p. 442.
Bulimulussp.
n. alt.
11.5 mm. from photograph  p. 444.
Bulimulus amastroides Ancey alt.
10 mm.
 p. 441.
Plate XVI.
Bulimulus nesioticus Dall alt.
12 mm.
 p. 443.
Bulimulus olla Dall alt.
15 mm.
 p. 437.
Bulimulus planospira Ancey alt.
19.25 mm.
 p. 432.
Bulimulus Reibischi Doll alt.
10.5 mm.
 p. 444.
Bulimulus Tanneri Dall alt.
11 mm.
 p. 438.
Genitalia o Bulimulus nnx var incrassatus Pfr.
considerbly magnified  the male and female orifices IX X open into a single vestibulum and are separated here by an accident of dissection  I albumen gland  II hermaphoditic duct  III ovotestis  IV oviduct or uterus  V prostate  VI retx'actor penis  VII jDCnis sac  VIII Fig.
1.
Fig.
2.
Fig.
3.
Fig.
4.
Fig.
5.
Fig.
6.
Fig.
7.
Fig.
8.
Fig.
9.
Fig.
10.
Fig.
11.
Fig.
12.
Fig.
13.
Fig.
14.
Fig.
15.
Fig.
16.
Fig.
1.
Fig.
2.
Fig.
o O.
Fig.
4.
Fig.
5.
Fiff.
6. vas deferens IX male and X female orifice accidentally parted  XI duct of spermatheca  XII spermatheca.
From a drawing by W. G. Binney Esq. p. 429.
Fig.
7.
Bulimulus duncanus Dall alt.
17.5 mm.
 p. 438.
Fig.
8.
Succinea 6reiior Smith camera lucida outline of jaw considerably magnified  p. 449.
Fig.
9.
Leptinaria chathamensis Dall alt.
3.5 mm.
 p. 451.
Fig.
10.
Succinea producta Reibisch outline of jaw magnified from camera lucida sketch  p. 449.
Fig.
11 12 13.
Bulimulus Simrothi Reibisch tortuganus Dall showing variation in individuals and character of surface  alts respectively 12.25 11.0 and 10.75 mm.
 p. 440.
Fig.
14.
Bulimulus cinereus Reibisch alt.
8.5 mm.
 p. 437.
Plate XVII.
Figures all drawn from camera lucida sketches.
Fig.
1.
Jaw of Bulimulus rugulosiis Sby. much magnified p. 431.
Fig.
2.
3 i oi Bulimulus Simrothi Jdi p. AAO.
Fig.
3.
Teeth of Bulimulus ventrosus Reibisch central and inner lateral 3a two exti'eme outer laterals or marginals  p. 434.
Fig.
4.
Rhachidian and innermost lateral teeth of Bulimulus chemnitzioides Forbes  4a three of the outermost laterals  p. 445.
Fig.
5.
Rhachidian inner lateral and 5a two outer lateral teeth of Succinea producta Reibisch  p. 449.
Fig.
6.
Rhachidian and adjacent laterals and 6a one of the outermost laterals of Bulimulus unifasciatus Sby.
 p. 439.
Fig.
7.
Rhachidian tooth and adjacent laterals and 7a two outer laterals of Bulimulus Bauri Dall  p. 441.
Fig.
8.
Rhachidian tooth adjacent laterals and 8a two outer laterals of Bulimulus citrtus Reibisch  p. 442.
Fig.
9.
Rhachidian tooth adjacent lateral and 9a two more marginal laterals oi Succinea brevior Smith p. 449.
Fig.
10.
Rhachidian and two adjacent lateral teeth and 10a an outer lateral and marginal tooth of Bulimulus nux var.
incrassatus Pfr.
 p. 429.
Fig.
11.
Javf of Bulimulus U7iifasciatus Qhj.
 p. 439.
Fig.
12.
Rhachidian tooth laterals of one side and part of the uncini of Helicina nesiotica Dall  p. 451.
Fig.
13.
Jaw of Bulimulus achatellinu. Forbes  p. 428.
Fig.
14.
Pupa Wolfii Miller 5a hH Dall MS. alt.
2.5 mm.
 p. 446.
Fig.
15.
Jaw of Bulimulus Bauri Dall  p. 441.
Fig.
16.
Single tooth of Leptinaria chathamensis Dall from a sketch by W. G. Binney much magnified p. 451.
460 proceedings of the academy of 1896.
August 4.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Twelve persons present.
A paper entitled  New and Interesting Eocene Mollusea of the Gulf States by Gilbert D. Harris was presented for publication.
August 11.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Seven persons pi'esent.
August 18.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Seven persons present.
August 25.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Thirteen persons jresent.
Mr. Thomas Chalkley Palmer was elected a member.
The following was ordered to be printed   ON THE HEMIPENES OF THE SATJRIA.
BY E. D. COPE.
In the course of preparation of a work on the scaled reptiles of North America for the Smithsonian Institution it has become necessary to examine some neglected parts of the anatomy.
This I have recently done for the hemi penes of the Ophidia with results of considerable importance to the systematic indications. In the present paper I give the results of a similar investigation into the corresponding part of the anatomy of the lizards.
Very little attention has been given to the subject hitherto and our knowledge up to 1856' is thus summarized by Stannius A duplication or bifurcation of each organ is present in Lacerta and in Platijdactylus guttatus.
The copulatory organs of the Chamaeleonidte are distinguished by their shortness.
In various Varanidae which have been investigated the internal cavity external when protruded has transverse concentric folds.
A fissure interrupts these folds so that they are not complete annuli.
The extremity is acuminate and expands at the base forming a kind of glans.
In 1870 J. E. Gray describes and figures this organ of Vuramis heraldicus giving the best illustration that I know of.
Besides these references I know of nothing later.
As was to have been anticipated I have found these organs to correspond with the rest of the structure and to furnish invaluable aids to the determination of affinities among the Sauria.
Reference to them cannot be omitted henceforth in cases where the other characters render the question of affinity uncertain.
In the Sauria the male intromittent organ or hemipenis presents much variety of structure showing some parallels to the corresponding part in the snakes.
It is however rarely spinous as is so generally the case in the Ophidia the only spinous forms being so far as I have examined the American Diploglossinge and genera allied to Cophias.
The higher Sauria have the apical parts modified as 1 Transactions of the American Philosophical Society 1895 p. 187.
 Zootomie der Amphibien p. 266.
 Annals Magaz.
at.
History 1870 VII p. 283. in the Ophidia by the presence of calyculi.
Such are characteristic of the Rhiptoglossa and Pachyglossa.
The Nyctisaura possess the same feature.
The Diploglossa Helodermatoidea and Thecaglossa have the organ flounced the flounces often pocketed or repand on the margin.
In the Leptoglossa we have laminae only  in the Tiid mostly transverse and in the Scincidae mostly longitudinal.
In various genera terminal papillre are present.
The organ may be simple or bifurcate or merely bilobate.
I have not met with the case so common in Ophidia where the sulcus spermaticus is bifurcate and the organ undivided.
The structures of the hemipenis have a constant systematic value.
As in the Ophidia the value differs with the character but it varies from generic to superfamily in rank.
In the Chamaeleonidfie the greater part of the surface of the hemipenis is coarsely calyculate generally in a transvere direction.
There are remarkable papillae at the apex which differ in the different forms.
In C. 2ardalis there is a kind of membranous apron proximad of the papillse which presents an apex proximad opposite to the sulcus spermaticus.
In C. vulgaris and C. gracilis the papillae are erect laminiform and transverse and serrate on the edges.
The principal pair have a few papillse in front of and behind them and in C. gracilis there is behind these on each side an oval lody which is composed of three serrate laminse packed obliquely together.
In C. gracilis the proximal lamiuse are low and have a margin of acute tubercles and each serves as a collar to a much larger papilla.
The latter is largely free and tongueshaped with the apex proximad and its flat external surface is covered with three or four rows of conic papillse.
I have had the opportunity of examining the hemipenis of a relatively small number of species of the Agamidae  the surface is generally calyculate.
I have not found terminal papillre in the genera Uromastix Agama Liolepis Pkysignathus or Calotes.
The general construction is that opposite the sulcus spermaticus is a strong longitudinal welt.
Near the apex this welt becomes adherent to the side on which the sulcus runs dividing the organ into two apical portions.
The sulcus bifurcates and passes along the base of this partition.
In Liolepis there are two welts enclosing a smooth space between them.
In Calotes cristatellus there is a lesser welt on each side of the principal one.
In all the genera the basal part is smooth and it is sometimes thrown into longitudinal folds.
I have examined the bemipenis in thirty species of the Iguanidse of the following genera  Anolis Xiphocercus Polychrus Basiliscus Ctenosaura Cyelwa Iguana CorythophanesSauromalus Crotaphytus Dipsosaurns Sceloporus Callisaurus Holhrookia Enyalioides Doryphorus Microlophus Uraniscodon and Phryrwsoma.
These differ in the bifurcation of the organ varying from undivided Cyclura Iguana to deeply bifurcate Anolis Doryphorus Microlophus Uraniscodon.
Other differences are seen in the number of welts and their surface structure and the distribution and size of the calyces.
Thus the calyces extend to the base in Anolis but are confined to the apex in Crotophytus.
They exist in series only in Cyclura Iguana Ctenosaura Corythophanes and Sauromalus.
They cover most of the organ in Sceloporus and Phrynosoma.
The systematic arrangement of the genera in accordance with the characters is as follows  I. Calyces always present.
A.
Three welts one opposite the sulcus sperraaticus and one  parallel on each side of it transversely laminate  Ctenosaura Cyclura Iguana Corythophanes Sauromalus Crotaphytus.
B.
Three welts  one opposite sulcus the others on each side of sulcus converging to median welt and enclosing spaces with it  surfaces calyculate.
a Median welt confluent proximad  Dipsosaurus Liocephalus Phrynosoma.
a a Median welt projecting free proximad  Callisaurus HOLBROOKIA.
C. No median welt  lateral welt from sulcus  Sceloporus.
D. A median no lateral welts  calyculate.
 cc Not bifurcate  welt wide  Enyalioides calyces coarse.
cc  Bifurcate  welt long and narrow  Anolis calyces minute.
E. No welts.
cc Deeply bifurcate calyces confined to branches Microlophus Uraniscodon Doryphorus.
s a Shortly bifurcate  calyces extending proximad of branches  Basiliscus.
II.
No calyces or welts.
cc Bifurcate  surface coarsely wrinkled  Polychrus.
In the genera Ctenosaura Cyclura Iguana Sauromalus and Enyalioides latlceps the organ is entire in the others it is bilobate or bifurcate.
Of the Nyctisaura I have examined the hemipenis in the genera Thecadadylus Platydadylus Phyllodactylus and Gymnodadylus.
In these this organ is short and wide appropriately to the fragility of the tail.
It is also more or less deeply divided into two branches.
The entire surface is calyculate generally minutely so.
In Thecadactylus each fork has three strong welts.
In Platydadylus there is a welt opposite the sulcus which is very large in P. aegyptiacus and divides sending a half into each branch.
In Gymnodadylus pulchellus the welts are not so heavy below the bifurcation is a welt which encloses a circular area which is incomplete proximad.
In Euhlepharis the hemipenis is closely similar to that of the Gecconidre.
It is short and deeply bifurcate  it has a single prominent welt.
The surface of this is smooth but the remainder of the surface is calyculate.
Of the Zonuridse I have only seen the hemipenis of Z. cordylus.
It is short and swollen so that the spiral structure is accentuated  there is a rigid welt opposite the sulcus which leaves a triangular space at one side proximad which is finely calyculate.
On the opposite side of the welt distad is a wide space with radiating laminae from a smooth center.
The presence of calyculi noted is exceptional in the Diplogossa and indicates approximation to the Pachyglossa as far as it goes.
In the Anguidie the hemipenis presents well mai'ked characters which distinguish the genera and perhaps the subfamilies.
In Celest'us the extremity carries an osseous spicule of relatively large size.
Distad of the flounces are more C. stenurus or less C hadius numerous longitudinal series of recurved osseous spines which are longer near the sulcus sperm aticus.
In C. stenuras the flounces are apiculate at regular intervals  organ undivided.
In the Gerrhonotinse the flounces are cupped and continue to the apex without spines  in Barissia and Gerrhonotus the organ is bifurcate in Elgaria simple.
In Angtiisa.
welt on each side of the sulcus has tubercular crossridges and the remainder of the surface is marked with oblique folds with tubercular margins forming a chevron which is directed distad.
In Pseudojms apus the organ is not symmetrical.
Opposite the sulcus is a low broad smooth welt and on each side the sulcus is margined by a thin welt or lip.
This is coarsely plicate transversely the plicae extending to the welt.
On the other side the transverse plicae terminate at a band of fine longitudinal folds.
In Ophisaurus the organ is undivided and there is a welt with one edge and the proximal end free.
It is covered with robust papillae.
In Xantusiidae the hemipenis is bifurcate and is shortened as in many Gecconidae appropriately to the fragile tail.
There is a welt on each side of the sulcus spermaticus which follows a short spiral direction.
Opposite to the sulcus are two short thick welts which have the direction of parts of consecutive threads of a screw.
All of the welts are deeply crossfolded.
In the Tiide two types may be observed of the structure of the hemipenis but I have not had access to sufficient materia
to enable me to refer all the genera to the one or the other.
In the typical members as in the genera Dracaena Tupmavibis Amiva and Cnemidophorus the pattern consists of numerous delicate imbricate transverse laminae which are closely applied to each other.
Opposite the sulcus all the genera display a welt which has free borders.
These are entire in Dracaena and pectinate in Amiva and Cnemidophorus  between these and the borders of the sulcus is a rounded welt on each side.
The laraince are sublongitudinal diverging proximad from the sulcus  on the first welt they turn sharply distad  between this and the welt they make a second chevron distad turning proximad.
Proximad of the median welt these lamina meet forming a curve or chevron turned proximad.
In Oiemidophorus there is one less chevron.
In this genus and Amiva there is a strong fleshy papilla at the apex of each tract between the welt and sulcus.
A modification is seen in Centropyx pelviceps.
Here there is a narrow welt opposite the sulcus  on each side of the sulcus a prominent welt diverges from it proximad and approaches the proximal end of the median welt so as to enclose a space with it.
It is transversely plicate and the enclosed space on each side the median welt has the delicate transverse lamination characteristic of the Tiidse.
What is entirely peculiar is.
the presence at the apex of each of the laminate spaces of a large patch of acute flexible papillse.
The plan is the same in Anadia bogotensis but the details are different.
The organ is bifurcate.
A strong welt opposite the sulcus is divided into fine longitudinal folds which are crimped transversely.
The space between this and the sulcus is marked with folds which diverge distad from the welt and become longitudinal and are transversely crimped.
In the longitudinal direction of the plicie this genus differs from the Tiidee and it is likely that Ecpleopus and other allied genera are similar.
In a third type represented by Heteroclonium bicolor a welt bounds the sulcus on each side.
The space between these is marked by a few feeble cross folds and the borders support a single series of closely placed recurved spines.
Genera allied to Cophias are likely to present this structure.
Of the Lacertidae I have examined the hemipenis in the genera Lacerta Acanthodactylus and Latasiia.
They are bifurcate and bilobate.
In each division and proximad to it is an oval area with transverse laminae surrounded by a welt.
In Acanthodadyhis one of the areas is marked by longitudinal folds.
Among the Gerrhosauridae the hemipenis of Gerrhosaiirusnigrolineatus has on its distad third three welts opposite the sulcus the median larger all finely cross folded.
Between one of these and the sulcus is a tract of coarse papillse  between the other and the sulcus the surface is smooth.
Of the Scincidae I have examined the hemipenis in Trachysaurus Lepldothyris femandii Euprepu carinatus Eumeces and Mahuia.
They are smooth and with more or less numerous longitudinal folds excepting in Trachysaurus.
Here the laminae diverge from the sulcus proximad and turn to a horizontal direction meeting opposite the sulcus in a chevron directed distad.
In Eitprepis carinatus and Eumeces ohsoletus some of the plicaB are crossribbed.
In Lepidothyris fernandii the organ is shortly bifurcate and each division has a membranous welt next the adjacent division.
In the Anniellidae the genus Anniellahas the entire surface from one side of the sulcus to the other thrown into transverse folds or  Heteroclonium bicolor gen. et.
sp.
nov. Cuir.
gen. Frontonasal plates separating nasals  prefrontals and frontoparietals absent  nostril in suture between nasal and first labial plate  no interparietal.
Limbs rudimental two pairs  digits 41 the anterior clawed.
No femoral pores.
Different from Sesqaipes type Coptias lieteropm Licht.
Blgr. 
which has the digits 42  and Microdactylus when tliey are 33.
Char specif.
Scales in annuli of 28 scales which are angular at the extremities and alternate with those of the adjacent rows.
Labials 56  temporals 222.
Three large preanal plates longer than wide.
l'ail long obtuse hind legs minute.
Anterior digits short subequal.
Brown above separated abruptly on each side from the darker brown of the sides and lower surfaces.
Chin and throat yellowish.
Scales of upper surface each with a bluish spot.
Total length 130 mm. length to vent 78 mm.
Bogota  Philadelphia Museum Coll.
Two specimens.
flounces which are so wrinkled as to be more or less pocketed much as in Gerrhonotus Elgaria.
Organ undivided.
Of the Amphisbaenidae the only species of which I have obtained a satisfactory heniipenis is the African Monopeltls galeatus Hallow.
The organ is bifurcate each branch is marked with fine close transverse folds while the region proximad of these has coarser folds directed transversely and obliquely.
PLATE VI.
  X  RHOADS ON AMERICAN POLAR HARES.
PLATE VII.
'l8J RHOADS ON AMERICAN POLAR HARES.
PLATE VIII.
tJjRja i ii.i i i i i i H8 WM ' RHOADS ON AMERICAN POLAR HARES.
PLATE IX.
RHOADS ON AMERICAN POLAR HARES.
PLATE X. RHOADS ON AMERICAN POLAR HARES.
PLATE XI.
PILSBRY AND VANATTA ON CERION.
PLATE XII PILSBRY AND VANATTA ARIOLIMAX AND APHALLARION.
PLATE Xni.
PILSBRY AND VANATTA ARIOLIMAX AND APHALLARION PLATE XIV.
PILSBRY AND VANATTA ARIOLIMAX AND APHALLARION.
PLATE XV.
DALL.
INSULAR LAND SHELL FAUNAS PLATE XVI.
DALL.
INSULAR LAND SHELL FAUNAS.
PLATE XVII.
DALL.
INSULAR LAND SHELL FAUNAS.
flouuces which are so wrinkled as to be more or less pocketed much as in Gerrhonot'us Elgaria.
Organ undivided.
Of the Amphisbaeuidae the only species of which I have obtained a satisfactory hemipenis is the African Monopeltis galeatus Hallow.
The organ is bifurcate each branch is marked with fine close transverse folds while the region proximad to these has coarser folds directed transversely and obliquely.
31 468 proceedings of the academy of 1896.
September 1.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Eleven persons present.
The deaths of Henry C. Ford August 17 and of George M. Conarroe August 25 members were announced.
September 8.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Fifteen persons present.
September 15.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Twelve persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication    Fossil Bones of Birds and Mammals from Grotto Pietro Tamponi and Greve St.
Alban.
By R. W. Shufeldt M. D.  Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee.
No.
4.
Mollusks.
By Samuel N. Rhoads and Henry A. Pilsbry.
September 22.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Fifteen persons present.
September 29.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Twentythree persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication   Mammals collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith during his Expedition to Lake Rudolf Africa.
By Samuel N. Rhoads.
The Hymenoptera Collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith in Northeast Africa.
By William J.
Fox.
The following were elected members   J. Howard Breed Effingham B. Morris Curwin Stoddart Jr. and Mrs. F. G. Dixon.
The following were ordered to be printed  
