REVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS: ARIOLIMAX AND APHALLARION.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND E. G. VANATTA.
The genera of slugs inhabiting North America have hitherto been discriminated by external characters, and those of the jaw and teeth.
We purpose to indicate, in a series of papers of which this is the first, some of the more important of their internal features, particularly the genitalia and alimentary canal.
The genitalia have been utilized by Mr. W. G. Binney and others for the discrimination of species ; and we have already considerable knowledge of these organs from his descri{)tions and drawings; but, of late, quite a new stress has been laid upon certain characters of the organs of generation.
By Dr. Simroth, in Germany, and the senior author of this paper in America, characters of generic, as well as of still higher value, have been found in the genitalia.
It is, therefore, important to review our data upon the anatomy of American slugs, to correct the numerous misinterpretations of organs which have arisen from lack of good material or other causes, and to expose the true generic characters and affinities of these animals, so far as may be possible in the present state of our knowledge.
As the species of slugs also rest largely upon characters of internal anatomy, their revision will be attemjjted ; a work now most timely, in view of the fact that such a multitude of insufficiently defined specific and varietal names have been proposed that he who attempts the identification of a West Coast slug to-day is not only a bold man but also one probably doomed to a miserable failure.
The largest slugs of America, Ariolimax and Aphallarion, are selected for the present essay.
No correct figures or descriptions of the genitalia of these animals have yet been published.
The true structure of the male organs of Ariolimax is here for the first time made known ; and the genus Aphallarion is proposed for a new species, perhaps the largest American slug, remarkable in lacking a penis.^ ^ We must acknowledge our indebtedness to P. B. Kandolph, of Seattle, Washington, and to Fred L. Button, of Oakland, California, for large series of slugs used in preparing this paper.
EXTERNAL CHARACTERS.
The external characters of Ariolhnax ^\\d Aphallarion are described below.
Arion differs from these American groups in the rounded, not keeled, back, the anterior breathing pore and the more posterior genital orifice.
JAWS AND TEETH.
The jaw in Arlolimax and Aphallarion is of the ribbed type usual in Arionidce, and does not differ materially from that of Arion.
The teeth offer no characters of generic importance, being of the general type found throughout Arionidce.
Those of the median part of the radula are of the Helicid form ; the marginal teeth develop long mesocones, simulating somewhat the teeth of Zonitidce, precisely as those of some Endodontidce do.
DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
In Arion, Arlolimax ■o.ndi Aphallarion the alimentary canal is distinctly differentiated into fore-, midand hind gut.
The short oesophagus leads into a capacious crop, ivhich is separated by a decided constriction from the stomach, which lies near the posterior end of body.
At the termination of the stomach the bile duct enters, near the origin of the intestine.
The latter presents, after coiling spirally once around the visceral mass, an anterior loop, lying to the right of the albumen gland.
Passing backward it coils in a reverse direction around the visceral mass and forms a posterior loop, which, in the American forms (PI.
XIII, figs.
2, 4) lies behind, in the European (Arion, PI.
XIII, fig.
3) above and anterior to the main mass of the stomach.
From this loop the intestine passes forward, describing a spiral coil again reversed in direction, and terminates near the respiratory orifice on the right side of the body anteriorly.
The digestive systems of the three genera Arion, Ariolimax and Aphallarion differ only in subordinate features.
In Arion, the stomach, as mentioned above, lies behind the posterior loop of the hind-gut.
In Ariolimax and Aphallarion the posterior loop lies behind the stomach.
Aphallarion differs from the other two genera in having a spiral turn less of the intestine.
As usual in slugs there are four lengthwise folds of the gut.
A very long and (for a slug) complexly disposed intestine, and a complete separation of crop and stomach, are the peculiar characteristics of these great slugs.
This will become more apparent when we compare it with the simpler and very different digestive tract in Prophysaon, Limax, or the Helices.
The liver extends forward nearly as far as the anterior loop of the intestine, and backward to the tail (PI.
XIII, fig.
1), enveloping and partly coucealing the convolutions of the intestine in all three genera.
The suboral gland (PI.
XIII, fig.
1) is about half as long as body, and lies free, not imbedded in the muscles of the foot.
GENITALIA.
In Avion, Ariolimax and Aphallarion the genitalia lie quite differently in the body-cavity from those organs in Limax or Prophysaon, the whole system being crowded forward.
The albumen gland (Pl.XIII, figs.
1 and 2) lies to the left of the anterior loop of the intestine, almost entirely forward of the middle of the body-cavity.
The distal end of the albumen gland turns down the left side and extends part way across the body beneath, often showing a longitudinal impression made by the suboral gland.
(This is seen at I. gr.
in fig.
14 of Plate XIV.)
At the base of the albumen gland the ovotestis is closely packed (PL XIII, fig.
1) in Ariolimax and Aphallarion, and its duct is largely imbedded in the albumen gland ; but in Arion the ovi-sperm duct follows the course of the mid-gut backward, and the ovotestis is situated at the tail, behind the stomach (PI.
XIII, fig.
3).
The penis in Ariolimax lies obliquely across the viscera, overlying salivary glands and crop.
It is seen removed from its natural position in PI.
XIII, fig.
1.
In treating of Arion and allied forms, Dr. Simroth, the distinguished German malacologist, has discriminated between a true penis and that enlargement of the anterior end of the vas deferens seen in Arion, etc., which he has termed the Patronenstrecke.
The senior writer, in dealing with Helices, made the same distinction.^ The penis is an evertable sack, provided with a retractor muscle.
The "Patronenstrecke," or, as we have termed it, the eplphallus, is not evertable, and has no retractor muscle ; its function being merely to gather the spermatozoa into packets or spermatophores ; and it is strictly homologous with the lower portion of the vas deferens of ordinary snails.
In the vast majority of snails in which the vas deferens is modified into an epiphallus, it occurs in connection with a normally developed penis, as in fig.
14, PI.
XIV.
In Arion, Aphallarion, Prophysaon, and some other genera, the true 2 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1892, p. 388. penis has been lost, and the epiphaUus directly enters the atrium.
In these forms the vagina assumes the function of an evertable penis, an extraordinary but by no means unparalleled instance of change of function.
These matters ai-e here dwelt upon somewhat fully, because in all former American work on slug anatomy, no discrimination whatever has been made between the penis and the epiphallus, the very real and important morphologic fticts involved being, therefore, entirely Ignored.
The most prominent general feature of the genitalia in the three genera is the crowding of the main mass forward into the anterior half of the body-cavity.
GENERIC CHARACTERS.
The three genera o^ Arioiddce mentioned above are seen by the foregoing general description to present many common features in their digestive and generative organs, showing them to be nearly allied.
Their main difierential characters are shown in the following analysis: I, Respiratory pore anterior, the genital orifice below it.
No caudal mucus pore.
Back rounded in adults.
Stomach extending back of posterior loop of intestine.
No penis, an epiphallus replacing it ; ovotestis widely separated from the albumen gland, situated in the cavity of tail, behind the stomach (see PI.
XIII, tig.
3, A. hortensis), Genus Arion Ferussac.
11.
Respiratory pore behind middle of shield.
Genital orifice near right tentacle.
A caudal mucus pore.
Back keeled, at least toward the tail.
Posterior loop of intestine behind stomach.
Ovotestis packed close to the base of albumen gland.
a.
No penis, a short epiphallus replacing it (see PL, XIV.
fig.
12) ; right eye retractor passing to the left of genitalia.
Genus Aphallarion Pilsbry and Vanatta.
aa.
A well developed penis, with short, fleshy retractor muscle; epiphallus more or less introverted in penis (see PI.
XIV, tigs.
7, 8, 9, 14) ; right eye retractor passing between $ and 9 branchesof genitalia.
Genus ApioLiMAxMorch.
One species of the Paljearctic genus Arion has been introduced by commerce within our limits, ^4.
hortensis Fer.
It occurs at Boston and New Bedford, Mass, ; Poughkeepsie, N. Y. ; Seattle, Wash., etc.
Genus ARIOLIMAX Morch.
External Characters.
— Body limaciform, its posterior half more or less keeled on the back ; foot margin defined by deep pedal grooves, deeper toward the more or less distinct caudal mucus gland.
Mantle oval, about one-fourth as long as the entire body, finely granular, the respiratory orifice at its posterior third near the right edge.
Genital orifice behind the right eye tentacle.
Orifice of the suboral gland very broad.
Integument scored by numerous grooves, longitudinal behind, obliquely descending below the mantle and for some distance along the flanks.^ Sole tripartite, the divisions rather indistinct ; alcoholic specimens having the median band smooth, lateral bands finely transversely wrinkled.
The principal internal characters of the genus are mentioned above.
The extraordinary modification of the penis is fully described below.
Key to species of Ariolimax.
a. jVtantle free anteriorly for about one-third of its length.
Penis with terminal retractor, and nearly filled for its entire length by the invaginated epiphallus; vas deferens not enlarged, ColumbictJius.
aa.
Mantlefreeanteriorly about one-fourth of its length.
Penis hollow, with very broad retractor, beyond which it is attenuated; vas deferens enlarged into an epiphallus external to the penis, the invaginated portion small.
Californicus.
A. Columbianus Gould.
Plate XII, fig.
2.
Li77iax Columbianus Gld.
in Terrestrial Moll.
U. S., II, p. 43, pi.
66, f. 1 (1851); U. S. Expl.
Exped., Moll., p. 3, pi.
1, f. 1 (1852); Tryon, Amer.
Jour.
Conch., Ill, p. 315 (1868).
Ariolif?iax Columbianus Morcli, Malak.
Blatter, VI, p. 110 (1859).
W. G. Binney, Amer.
Journ.
Conch., I, p. 48, pi.
6, f. 11-13; Land and Fresh Water Sh.
N. A., I, p. 279, f. 496-501, (1869); Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila., 1874, p. 33, pi.
2, f. B. to H; Terr.
Moll., V, p. 231, pi.
v, f. E (dentition), pi.
xii, f. C (genitalia) ; ]Man.
Amer.
L. Shells, p. 98, f. 58, 59, 6' ,"61 ; Third Supplement to Terr.
Moll., V (Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., XIX, No.
4), p. 211, pi.
vi, f. A (mottled form) and f. G (penis).
* Mr. Charles Hedley, the accomplished Australian student of mollusk morphology, considers the oblique surface grooves as characteristic of the ^utocopoda generally.
I quote this passage from a recent letter: "Besides the pedal grooves, tail pore and horn, the typically developed Aulacopod has a keeled tail and oblique secondary grooves.
The pore may be lost by degeneration, so, too, may the oblique grooves ; and the keeled tail may become flattened.
Nevertheless, both are typical characteristics, and deserve mention in the diagnosis.
Again, the Holopoda have long tapering eye tentacles, with bulbous tips, but the Aulncopoda have shorter cylindrical tentacles, less bulbous at tip and set wider apart."
There can be no doubt that the features mentioned by my friend are of very frequent occurrence in the Aulacopoda, while they do not occur in Holopoda ; but they are not invariable, the pedal grooves being, I believe, the only strictly diagnostic external character of the group.
— H. A. P. Ariolimax Columbianus fort7ia typicus Cockerell, Nautilus, V, p. 31 (1891).
Arivliniax Columbianus forma maculatiis Ckll., Nautilus, V, p. 31.
Binney, Third Suppl.
to Terr.
Moll, V (Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., XIX, No.
4), p. 211, pi.
vi, f. A. Ariolimax Columbianus forma ;/4'i^r Ckll., Nautilus, V, p. 32.
Ariolimax subsp.
Calijortticus foryjia maculatiis Ckll., Nautilus, V, p. 31 (foot note).
Ariolimary Columbianus var.
stramineus Hemphill, Nautilus, IV, p. 130 (Feb., 1891).
Geographic Distribution.
— British Columbia (J. H. Keen) ; Victoria (H. F. Wickham) ; Washington, at Taconia, and North Bend, about 25 miles east of Seattle in the foot-hills of the Cascade Mts.
(P. B. Randolph) ; Nesqually (Case) ; Discovery Bay, Puget Sound (Dyes) ; San Juan Island (Hemphill) ; California, at St. Helena, Napa Co. (Hemphill) ; Santa Cruz Island (Hemphill, var.
stramineus).
Color of alcoholic examples a lighter or darker shade of reddishbrown, or sometimes ochraceous.
Foot margin v/ithout dark vertical lines (see descriptions of varieties).
Melanistic form : Color of alcoholic specimens a slightly reddishbrown, marked with large, irregular scattered black spots along the sides, and with a rounded black spot on the mantle behind the middle.
In some specimens the spots on each side coalesce into a large, irregular black area.
Anterior third of mantle free.
Jaw (PI.
XIV, fig.
10) with 13 to 17 ribs and riblets, which sometimes do not denticulate the basal margin ; but there is variation in this respect.
Teeth about as in A. Calijormcus (q. v.), but the outer laterals have less lengthened cusps, and there are rather fewer bicuspid outer marginals.
The differences between the teeth of the species are too slight to be of any practical diagnostic value.
Shell oblong, convex above, calcified in the middle, but with a broad, yellow, uncalcified peripheral portion.
Nucleus median, near the posterior end.
Length 12, breadth 61, convexity 1?
mm.
The general internal structure (pi.
XIII, fig.
1) and the digestive tract (pi.
XIII, fig.
2)* have been sufficiently described above.
The genitalia (PI.
XIV, fig.
7, typical form, and figs.
8, 9, blackspotted form) present a rather long and stout penis, receiving the vas deferens and a very short retractor muscle at its apex ; upon opening the penis longitudinally (fig.
9) it is seen to contain a large * Compare Binney's figure of the digestive system in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.,.
Phila., 1874, pi.
II, f. D, F. 345 Tcn-ac/ffr epi.
1896.]
inner body, which extends to the external orifice, where it terminates in a penis-papilla (fig.
9, P. papilla).
This internal body consists of a fleshy cylindrical tube (fig.
9, epi.)
enveloped by a very thin-walled and minutely corrugated outer tube (fig.
9, sheath of epi.).
This structure we can only interpret as an introverted epiphallus, which has extended entirely to the proximal opening of the penis, carrying the penis-papilla at its summit.
This will be more clearly seen in the annexed diagram.
The clearer, because less advanced, penial morphology of ^.
Californicus bears out this view of the structure in A. Colmnbianus, which is, moreover, more readDiagram of thepenisof i'j ^een in our preparations than in the flat V. d. vas deffigures, necessarily complicated by lines to show the ducts and layers of tissue not visible from the outside' The female side shows a rather long vagina, provided with a broad, split retractor Spermatheca situated high, on a short duct.
Other organs call for no special remark.
A. Columbiamis is a dimorphic species in most, perhaps all, localities.
There is a unicolored form, and one more or less heavily spotted or blotched with black.
This maculated form has received the name "for7na maculatus " Ckll.
It is in no sense a true variety or subspecies but merely a " form," comparable to the glaucus form of the dimorphic Papilio turtucs.
Cockerell's "forma niger " was described from one specimen in which the black blotches had coalesced, upper surface entirely blacky ^ A similar penial structure has very recently been described and figured by Charles Medley in the epiphallogonous genus Xanthomdon of the Helicidse.
In A", fodinalis Tate and A'.
Adcockiana Bednall, a tube occupies the penis cavity.
''This," writes Hedley, "I interpret with some hesitation as an invaginated epiphallus, of which the distal end has grown to the atrium wall, and which has drawn after it into the penis sac both vas deferens and the retractor" (see Medley's anatomical appendix to Professor Ralph Tate's report on the Mollusca of the Horn Expedition to Central Australia).
No such structure has been described before ; and we are disposed to accept Medley's ingenious interpretation of the morphologic problem.
In Xanthomelon the invaginated epiphallus is attached at the proximal end of penis sac.
This is not the case with Ariolbnax, in which the invaginated structure is to that extent clearer.
vvAriolimax erens ; fpi.
invaginated epiphallus ; /• /.
perforated penis papilla, elevated on the epiphallus ; 0. extei-nal opening of penis.
muscle, inserted high.
28 from the humid British Columbian region, in which melanism is of common occurrence in snails, birds and mammals.
In a series of several hundred examples we find great variation in the extent of the black marking.
We hazard little in assuming that "A. Californieus forma maculatus" Ckll.
is identical with the spotted form of Columhianiis, and has nothing whatever to do with the true A. Californieus Cooper.
Like a good many " varieties " of slugs, this is " such stuff as dreams are made of."
•We have opened numerous spotted Californian Ariolimaces, and found them invariably to have the extremely characteristic genitalia of Cohimbianus.
Proof that a spotted form occurs in the other species is lacking.
A. Columbianus var.
stramineus Hem]iliill.
PI.
XII, fig.
1.
Alcoholic specimens clear, light buff.
Length 59 ; greatest breadth (across shield) 19 ; greatest width of sole 15 mm.
Genitalia as in typical A. columbianus.
Habitat : Santa Cruz Island, California.
The specimen figured is one of Hemphill's original lot.
A. Californieus Cooper.
PI.
XIII, figs.
5, 6 ; PI.
XIV, figs.
14-16.
Ariolhnax Californieus J. G. Cooper, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1872, p. 146, pi.
3, f. D, 1-3.
W. G. Binney, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1874, p. 83; Am.
Lye, N. Y._,_X, 1873, p. 297 ; Terrest.
Moll., V. p. 232, pi.
v, fig.
F (dentition), and pi.
xii, f. D (genitalia); Man.
Amer.
Land Sh., p. 99 f. 62, 63; Third Suppl.
Terr.
Moll., V (Bull.
M. C. Z., XIX, No.
4), p. 211, pi.
v. f. E (living animal) and f. H (penis).
Simroth, Nova Acta Acad.
Caes.
Leop.
Carol.
Germ.
Nat.
Cur., LVI, 1891, p. 365, pi.
7 [xv], f. 9-11 ; Malak.
Blatter (n. F.)XI, pl.l, f. 5.
6.
Distribution : We have seen this species from San Mateo Co., California, only.
Color of alcoholic specimens brownish ochraceous, sole gray ; foot margin uniform with the upper surface, or dusky with vertical dark lines.
The free anterior portion of mantle is shorter than in A. Columbianus, less than one-fourth the entire length of the mantle.
Jaw (PI.
XIV, fig.
13) with about 9 ribs, denticulating both margins.
Radula (PI.
XIII, figs.
5, 6) with the formula 67.1.67.
Rhachidian teeth with well developed side cutting-points ; mesocone long, reaching to posterior edge of basal plate.
Inner lateral teeth, without inner cusps, otherwise similar ; outer laterals becoming oblique, with Jong mesocones, the ectocone gradually reduced to a slight sinuation.
The transition to marginals is extremely gradual ; the latter being at first as described above (fig.
5, at 24, 25, 46), but about 20 at the outer edge of radula are of the form shown in fig.
6, with distinct ectocones, and the short, Helicid form of basal plates of other J^rtomV/oE.
Genitalia (PI.
XIV, fig.
14) somewhat as in J.. Columhianns.
The $ and 9 orifices are, as Binney has remarked, hardly united in an atrium (see figure).
The penis is fleshy, with plicate inner walls, and its retractor is short and fleshy, as in Columbianus, but is extremely broad.
The epiphallus (e/>i) is very stout, nearly as large in calibre as the penis in sexually mature specimens.
Further downward it becomes very small again, approaches the penis, follows it to its apex, turns in (fig.
15, enlarged view of apex of penis) and is introverted and invaginated therein for some distance, nearly as far as the insertion of retractor muscle (fig.
16, distal end of penis opened, showing the invaginated epiphallus).® The female organs are as usual, except that there is a broad, stout, fleshy vaginal retractor muscle inserted near the base of vagina.'
It will be seen that this species shows a less advanced stage of penis structure than A. Columbianus, although of the same kind.
The very stout, low, vaginal retractor is also a diagnostic feature.
INSUFFICIENTLY KNOWN ARIOLIMACES.
Ariolimax Columbiana var.
Hecoxl Wetherby (Some Notes on American Land Shells, p. 6) from Santa Cruz, California, is stated by Wetherby to diflfer from A. Columbianus in the geuitalia, but no characters whatever of the new form are mentioned.
Binney (Manual American Land Sh., p. 103) apparently endorses the specific value of the form ; but beyond stating that it has about 60.1.60 teeth {Columbianus varying fz'om 56.1.56 to 67.1.67), with about 16 laterals, he gives no characters.
The form has been mentioned in various lists, etc., by Cockerell and the senior author of this paper, but in the entire absence of diagnosis it can have no standing, and had better be dropped until described.
We have not seen specimens, nor, in fact, any specimens of the genus from Santa Cruz.
Ariolimax Costaricensis CockereW, Annals and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(6), VI, 1890, p. 279, described as a sub-species of A. Californicus, from ^ The slender distal end of the penis has been erroneously described as a " flagellum" by Binney, " Blindschlaucli " by Simroth ; both overlooking the fact that the epiphallus runs up to its apex, as shown in our figure 15.
'Binney (Man.
Amer.
Land Sh., p. 100) calls the structure a "vaginal prostate," overlooking the easily ascertainable fact that it is composed of solid muscular tissue, similar to that of the penis retractor.
All Ariolimaces have vaginal retractors, and at times invert and protrude the vaghia, like a penis.
alcoholic specimens in Brit.
Mus.
The only diagnostic words of Cockerell's description are the locality, " Costa Rica."
The other characters mentioned in the description are common to Columblanus and some CaUfornicus.
Measurements, etc., as given therein, look well on paper, but every practical limacologist knows them to be merely an empty form.
We consider Cosfaricensis as probably a good species, on account of its locality (if correct), but a diagnosis is still wanting.
Genus APHALLARION P. & V. (n. g.).
External characters, jaw, radula and digestive tract, shell, and general internal topography, as well as female genitalia, as in ArioItmax; jjenis (and its retractor') completely wanting, a small and short epiphallus lying in its place ; right eye retractor passing to the left of the genitalia.
We institute this new group for a large slug like Arion and Prophysaon in the total lack of a penis and its appendages, and like Ariolhnax in the other essential features, internal and external, except the disposition of the eye-retractor mentioned above.
In view of the high development and complicated structure of the penis in ArioUmax, the strength of its retractor, the large size and extraordinary introverted character of the epiphallus, we can hardly refuse generic rank to a form differing so radically as this one.
The anterior position of the genital foramen in Aphallarion, the posterior position of its breathing pore, and the anterior ovotestis, pressed against the base of the albumen gland, deny to our slug entrance into Arion ; and in the genus Prophysaon the whole internal topography® as well as the type of digestive system is profoundly different.
A. Buttoni P. *.
V. (n.
sp.).
PI.
XII, figs.
?,, 4, 5.
Color of alcoholic specimens light yellow-brown, the shield lighter, more yellowish, especially anteriorly.
Foot-margin dusky, with close vertical black lines, alternately heavier, and seen under the lens to be impressed and pigmented wrinkles.
Sole gray, more or less dusky.
Anterior third of the mantle free.
Length 82 ; length of mantle 34 ; greatest breadth of sole 21 mm.
Shell oblong, nearly flat, well calcified ; white below, with a yellowish cuticle above, except toward the middle.
Length 12 j, width 6| mm, ®By this we mean the positions of the organs in the body-cavity, both relative and actual.
The relative positions of genitalia and digestive tract are greatly varied in dill'erent genera of slugs, and of considerable systematic value.
Mr. Button writes of the living animal as follows : " He has a way of occasionally raising up the mantle over the respiratory orifice, as shown in the sketch, which is characteristic.
The following are some measurements of a very large specimen : Length, over all, when extended, 7 inches; width, I in.
; height, i in.
; length of tentacles, f inch.
The color is the same throughout, shield included, being an olive brown."
Figures 4 and 5 of Plate XII were drawn from sketches of the living animal furnished by Mr. Button.
Fig.
3 represents an alcoholic specimen, dorsal view.
Jaw with 10 to 12 ribs (PI.
XIV, fig.
11).
Teetli as in Ariolimax Californicus, but the outer laterals and marginals have the cusps shorter, less thorn-like, and there are rather fewer bicuspid outer marginals.
General characters of the digestive system (PI.
XIII, fig.
4) as in Ariolimax Columhianus ; but the ascending gut from posterior loop passes under the stomach (instead of over it) and the descending gut from anterior to posterior loop makes one spiral turn less than in that species.
Genitalia (PI.
XIV, fig.
12) lying in the body-cavity like that of Ariolimax.
Penis absent, the epiphallus {epi.)
small and short.
Vagina very long, strong, with plicate internal walls, and provided with a band of retractor fibers.
Spermatheca large, of irregular shape, on a short duct.
Oakland, California (Fred L. Button !).
* EXPLANATION OF PLATES.
Plate XII.
Fig.
1.
Ariolimax Columhianus stramineus Hemph., lateral view of an alcoholic specimen.
Fig.
2.
Ariolimax Columhianus Gld., lateral view of an alcoholic specimen of form maculatus, from Tacoma, Washington.
Fig.
3.
Aphallarion Buttoni Pils.
& Van., dorsal view of an alcoholic specimen of average size.
Fig.
4, 5.
Aphallarion Buttoni Pils.
& Van., lateral view and dorsal outline of a large living individual in motion, drawn from sketches by Fred.
L. Button.
All figures natural size.
Plate XIII.
Fig.
1.
Ariolimax Columhianus Gld.
General view of viscera, the upper integument removed, viscera turned aside, and penis lifted from its normal position across salivary glands and crop.
Fig.
2.
A. Columbiamts.
Digestive tract, the salivary glands and liver removed ; albumen gland remaining in place.
Fig.
3.
Avion hortensis Fer.
(specimen from New Bedford, Mass.).
Digestive tract, the liver removed ; also showing position of the ovotestis.
Fig.
4.
Aphallarion BuUoni P. & V. Digestive tract, the salivary glands and liVer removed.
Figs.
5, 6.
Ariolimax Califor n Icus Coo])er.
Dentition.
Plate XIV.
Fig.
7.
Ariolimax Columhianus Gld.
Genitalia of an unicolored specimen.
Fig.
8.
Ariolimax Columbia7ius G\d.
Lower portion of the genitalia of a black-spotted specimen.
Fig.
9.
Ariolimax Columhianus Gld.
Vagina and penis opened, the latter showing invaginated epiphallus {epi.
), its structure shown by dotted lines.
Fig.
10.
Ariolimax Columbianus Gld.
Jaw.
Fig.
11.
Aphallarion Buttoni P. & V. Jaw.
Fig.
12: Aphallarion Buttoni P. & V. Genitalia, epiphallus shown at epi.
Fig.
13.
Ariolimax Californicus Cooper.
Jaw.
Fig.
14.
Ariolimax Califor mc\i.s Cooper.
Genitalia.
Fig.
15.
Ariolimax Californicus Cooper.
Enlarged end of penis.
Fig.
16.
Ariolimax Californicus Cooper.
Enlarged distal portion of penis split to show the invaginated epiphallus.
