REPTILES FROM SONORA SINALOA AND JALISCO MEXICO WITH A DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF SCELOPORUS.
BY JOHN VAN DENBURGH.
This paper is an enumeration of the species of reptiles contained in three small collections and is presented in the hope that it may be of use to those who are interested in the distribution of Mexican lizards and snakes.
Two of these collections are in the California Academy of Sciences the first gathered in Sonora by Dr. Gustav Eisen and Mr. Walter E. Bryant in April and May 1S92 the second due to the efforts of Dr. Eisen and Mr. Frank H. Vaslit in Sinaloa and Jalisco in October and November 1894.
The third collection was secured by Dr. David Starr Jordan and a jarty of students at Mazatlan in December 1894 and January 1895 and is in the Zoological Museum of Leland Stanford Junior University.
1.
Phyllodactylus tuberculosus Wiegm.
A fine specimen of this gecko Cal.
Acad.
Sci. No.
3389 was obtained at Matzalan Sinaloa in October.
The California Academy possesses two specimens 248 249 secured in Durango by Mr. C. A. Hamilton.
2.
Gehyra mutilata Wiegm..
Eighteen specimens of this lizard C. A.
S.. 33503367 were collected at San Bias and one C. A. S. 3180 at Tepic Jalisco.
Females taken in October contain eggs which must have been nearly ready for laying femoral pores vary from eleven to twenty on each side.
In connection with Dr. Giinther's suggestion that this species has been recently introduced into America 1 it may be of interest to note that geckos sometimes come to San Francisco in the holds of vessels.
3.
Coleonyx variegatus Baird.
Several specimens were caught at San Miguel de Horcasitas in Sonora in April 1892.
4.
Anolis nebulosus Wiegm..
Dr. Eisen and Mr. Vaslit secured this species 31813188 at Tepic Jalisco in October.
The California Academy possesses also l Biol.
Centr.
Amer.
Rept. 1893 p. 81. two specimens C. A. S. 351 852 caught by Captain Wm Lund on the Tres Marias.
Dr. Jordan's party found the species at Mazatlan.
5.
Iguana igvana rhinolopha Wiegin..
Three specimens were obtained at Mazatlan Sinaloa and four C. A. S. 33393342 at San Bias Jalisco.
6.
Ctenosaura teres Harlan.
This species is more numerously represented both in the Stanford University collection and in that belonging to the California Academy than any other species.
These specimens were shot at Mazatlan Tepic and San Bias.
Many of these specimens are very large and have dorsal crests so well developed that I have no hesitation in abandoning Cope's brachylojha as a name for them although I have seen no specimens from near the type locality of Harlan's Cyclura teres.
It well may be that western specimens differ from the typical form but until some better character has been found to separate them I cannot recognize them as distinct.
7.
Crotaphytus baileyi Stejn.
One specimen was brought back from Hermosillo Sonora.
8.
Callisaurus ventralis 'Hallow.
A Gridirontailed Lizard C. A. S. No.
3390 taken at Mazatlan Sinaloa in October appears to be identical with Californian and Arizonan examples of this species.
Its femoral pores however are only ten instead of from fourteen to eighteen.
This locality is much farther south than any at which this lizard had previously been found.
The species was found also at San Miguel de Horcasitas Sonora in May 1892.
9.
Holbrookia maculata approximans Baird.
A typical specimen of this subspecies was caught at Duras Nillas Sonora in May 1892.
Several young from Mazatlan January 25 1895 are also referred to this form although their snouts appear to be more pointed than those of Arizonan examples.
10.
TJta ornata B.
 G. This lizard was obtained in Sonora at San Miguel de Horcasitas in April and at Duras Nillas in May 1892.
11.
Sceloporus utiformis Cope.
Numerous specimens of this Sceloporus were shot at Tepic Jalisco in October.
12.
Sceloporus pyrrhocephalus Cope.
A single young male C. A. S. No.
3329 agrees closely with Cope's original description of this species.
It was found at Tepic Jalisco in October.
13.
Sceloporus obscurus new species.
Two male specimens one young and one adult obtained at Tepic appear to differ in important characters from all known species.
Type.
 Cal.
Acad.
Sci. No.
3213 Tepic Jalisco Mexico Gustav Eisen and Frank H. Vaslit November 1894.
Description.
 Upper headshields nearly smooth  enlarged supraoculars in one row separated from mesial headshields by a complete series of small scales two scales on canthus rostralis frontal divided transversely but not longitudinally  interparietal wider than long  parietals small  earopening with very slight denticulation of scales much smaller than those immediately preceding.
Dorsal scales strongly keeled sharply pointed without marginal serrations in nearly parallel longitudinal rows.
Laterals keeled and pointed in oblique rows changing gradually to the larger dorsals and smaller ventrals.
Twentyeight to thirty dorsals on a line between interparietal plate and base of tail  about seven equaling length of shielded part of head.
Ventrals smooth emarginate  gulars weakly keeled emarginate.
Upper caudals considerably larger than dorsals.
Distance between base of fifth and end of fourth toe equals distance between end of snout and posterior border of earopening.
Tibia equals length of shielded part of head.
Sixteen to eighteen femoral pores on each side the series not meeting mesially.
Males with enlarged postanal plates.
All the upper surfaces are bluish steelcolor lighter and more bluish about the centres of many scales sometimes with bronze reflections without collar or other markings of any kind except indistinct crossbars on the toes.
The lower surfaces are similarly colored but are paler with a greenish or bronze cast on the throat and chest and a large area of campanula blue on each side of the belly.
There is a light streak along the middle of the throat.
mm.
mm.
Snout to anus 70 77 Length of tail  106 Snout to ear 17 18 Shielded part of head 15 16 Fore limb 35 36 Hind limb 45 59 Base of fifth to end of fourth toe .
.18 21 14.
Sceloporus boulengeri Stejn.
A very large number of Seelopori collected at Mazatlan and Tepic are certainly identical with Dr. Stejneger's S. boulengeri.
I believe that this is the same form as Cope's S. oligoporus.
It may even be true that these are not distinguishable from S. horridus but without an opportunity to examine the types or specimens from the type localities it seems best to use a name of unquestionable applicability.
15.
Cnemidophorus deppii lineatissimus Cope.
Two specimens C. A. S. 3344 3343 taken at San Bias Jalisco in October 1894 seem typical of this lizard.
16.
Cnemidophorus gularis B.
 G. A lizard caught at Guaymas Sonora May 12 1892 is identical with Arizonan specimens of this species.
17.
Cnemidophorus mariarum Giinther.
A large number of lizards from Mazatlan San Bias and Tepic seem to be identical with Gunther's specimens from the Tres MariasIslands.
Whether they are also identical with Cope's C. communis and Peter's C. mexicanus I have not been able to decide.
The upper lateral light lines are much farther apart than in C. gularis causing the specimens to bear some resemblance to C. sezlineatus.
18.
Sympholis lippiens Cope.
One typical specimen C. A. S. 3127 of this rare snake was taken at Tepic in October.
19.
Bascanion flagellum frenatum Stejn.
The crossbars on the neck are rather faint in a snake of this subspecies C. A. S. 3412 which Mr. Bryant procured at Hermosillo Sonora in May 1892.
This snake was brought back alive and died in San Francisco in October 1892.
20.
Basoanion semilineatum Cope.
This racer was taken by the Academy's collectors at both Tepic Nos.
3131 3132 and Mazatlan No.
3391 in October.
21.
Bascanion lineatum Bocourt.
A single example C. A. S. No.
3130 with one hundred and eightyfour gastrosteges one hundred and twentyone urosteges and scales in seventeen rows was shot at Tepic in October.
22.
Hypsiglena torquata Giinth..
The Academy's collectors secured a single representative C. A. S. No.
3394 of this species at Mazatlan.
23.
Natrix valida Kenn..
One specimen was secured at Tepic in October.
24.
Hapsidophrys diplotropis Giinth..
Two typical specimens of this beautiful snake were obtained at Mazatlan in October.
25.
Sibon punctatum Peters.
Dr. Jordan's party secured a single snake of this species at Mazatlan.
Its scale rows are nineteen and its gastrosteges one hundred and fiftyfive.
26.
Sibon personatum Cope.
One snake of this kind was caught at Tepic Jalisco in October.
It has one hundred and sixtythree gastrosteges eighty urosteges and scales in twentyone rows.
27.
Trimorphodon biscutatus D.  B..
Two specimens from Mazatlan are in the Stanford University collection.
They have gastrosteges 249 250 urosteges 72 79 scale rows 24 25.
