CONTRIBUTIONS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE HYMENOPTERA OF BRAZIL, NO.
3.
SPHEGID2E (sens.
lat.).
BY WILLIAM J.
FOX.
This paper forms a continuation of the reports on the collections of Hymenoptera made by and belonging to Mr. Herbert H. Smith.
At least one more paper will follow, on the Thynniidse, which will also contain some additions to the earlier reports.
Ampulex trigonopsis Sm.
A single specimen from Chapada (October), I doubtfully refer to this species.
It agrees with Smith's description, but there are two large teeth on each side of the projecting carina of the clypeus, of which Smith makes no mention.
Sceliphron {Trigonopsis) rufiventre Fabr.
Five specimens from Maruru (April) and Santarem.
Sceliphron (Podium) denticulatum Sin.
Chapada (December) ; Santarem.
Two specimens.
Sceliphron (Podium) consanguineum Sm.
Two specimens from Chapada (March) and Rio de Janeiro (October) are doubtfully referred to this species.
Sceliphron ( Podium) flavipenne Lep.
Two specimens, 9 • Rio de Janeiro (November) and Santarem.
Sceliphron (Podium) romandinum Sauss.
Two examples of this fine species.
Santarem (September).
Soeliphron (Podium) haematogastrum Spin.
Fourteen 9 and thirteen $ specimens.
This species is quite distinct by red legs and abdomen.
The latter, however, becomes quite dark in some specimens, and the petiole is sometimes black and varies a little in length ; the point of reception of the recurrent veins by the second submarginal cell is not constant.
Three specimens differ by having the wings subhyaline, not yellow, and may prove distinct.
Perhaps they represent Saussure's Podium egregium.
25 Sceliphron fistulare Dhlb.
Six specimens.
Pedra Branca and Maruru (April) ; Chapada.
Sceliphron figulum Dhlb.
Two specimens.
Corumba and Uacarizal (February).
Ammophila opulenta Guer.
A large series of this species from various localities.
It is disguished by its large size and strong tubercle of mesopleura.
The male has the clypeus prominently produced into a tooth, and together with the face, covered with golden pubescence.
It is best distinguished by the strongly tuberculate mesopleurse.
Ammophila miliaris Cain.
Twelve male specimens.
Chapada (January to March) ; Santarem.
Greatly resembles opulenta, but the mesopleurse not tuberculate and clypeal prominence shorter.
Ammophila abbreviata Fabr.
A large series of both sexes.
Ammophila aureo-notata Cam.
One female and nine male specimens.
Chapada (March, April) ; Corumba and Pedra Branca (April) ; Santarem.
Ammophila moneta Sm.
Four female and five male specimens.
Uacarizal (February) ; Pedra Branca and Chapada (April) ; Santarem.
A female and five males differ only in the sides of petiole and base of second segment diffused with reddish, and are no doubt A. ragilis Smith.
Moneta and fragilis are evidently one species.
Ammophila asperata n. sp.
9.
— Head with strong scattered punctures; clypeus medially finely punctured, its fore margin broadly and squarely truncate in middle ; fore ocellus separated from the posteriors by a distance equal to less than half that between the latter ; space between hind ocelli equal to less than two-thirds of that between them and eyes ; first joint of flagellum a little shorter than the two following united ; pronotum slightly excised medially; dorsulum coarsely punctured, but still not unevenly, posteriorly with several coarse transversely sinuous striae, and sulcate down middle for its entire length ; scutellum longitudinally striate ; postscutellum rugose ; upper surface of middle segment sulcate, rugose medially, the rugae running into fine even striae laterally ; side of thorax rugoso-punctate, the mesopleurse not tuberculate, with an \-shaped furrow ; petiole composed of two joints ; wings subhyaline, apices broadly darker, second submarginal cell subtriangular, narrowed more than one-half above, the first recurrent vein received near the middle, the second near apex.
Entire insect deep black, abdomen velvety; face and clypeus with sparse fuscous pile ; spot on tubercles and large one at each side of apex of middle segment, bright silvery.
Length 22 mm.
$ .
— Face and clypeus densely golden ; clypeus drawn out into a median prominence, which is short and obtuse, and before which the clypeus is visibly depressed ; space between hind ocelli nearly equal to that between them and eyes ; dorsulum with rather dense pale pile, and, in addition, with a short, erect, pale fuscous pubescence ; thorax sculptured as in the 9 5 tegulse silvery anteriorly.
Length 22 mm.
Chapada (March).
Three specimens.
Has the general appearance of abbreviate/,.
Sphex (Ohlorion) hemiprasinus Sichel.
Chapada (October).
Three specimens.
Sphex (Chlorion) cyaniventris Guer.
One specimen ; same locality and date as the preceding.
Sphex {Isodontia) nigrocaeruleus Tasch.
Nine 9 , three S specimens.
Chapada (March, April).
Sphex {Isodontia) costipennis Spin.
Five 9 , nine $ specimens; Chapada (February, March) ; Maruru and Pedra Branca (April) ; Santarem.
Sphex [Isodontia) laevipes n. sp.
9 .
— Black, with grayish pubescence ; face, clypeus, thorax beneath, hind coxse, an oblique line on sides of middle segment (sometimes absent) extending to insertion of petiole, silvery ; tegulse, legs entirely or in part, petiole (the latter sometimes black) wine colored ; wings fusco-hyaline, costal half much darker ; clypeus bidentate, with long, sparse, pale hairs; eyes converging toward mandibles, the latter bidentate ; space between hind ocelli nearly equalling that between them and eyes ; first joint of flagellum not quite as long as the two following united ; dorsulum and scutellum with distinct, separated punctures ; middle segment rather coarsely granulated ; the mesopleurce with coarse punctures ; legs comparatively scarcely spinose, spines of fore tarsi short; petiole about as long as the first three hind tarsal joints; last ventral segment convex.
Length 17-18 mm.
$ .
— Colored like the 9 ; but in one example the thorax except dorsulum, is more or less wine colored ; clypeus more convex, its apex broadly incurved, silvery pubescence denser; first joint of flagellum nearly as long as two following united ; scutellum impressed medially.
Length 18 mm.
Uacarizal (February) ; Chapada (March).
Three 9 , one $ specimens.
S. laevipes is probably the form mentioned by Kohl a& a dark variety of S. costipennis, his specimen, a $ , having come from Rio Grande do Sul.
It differs from costipennis not only in color, but by the smoother legs, longer petiole of 9 , etc.
Sphex (Isodontia) azteca Sauss.
One specimen, a S .
Chapada (March).
Sphex caliginosus Er.
Fifteen 9 , 22 $ specimens.
Chapada (March, April) ; Santarem.
Sphex fuliginosus Klug (=conyener Kohl).
A large series of females.
Chapada (March, April).
Sphex Servillei Lep.
(=latior Er.
—roraHis Kohl).
I have no doubt that latior is identical with Servillei.
The large series present, indicates a common occurrence.
Chapada (January^ March, April) ; Santarem.
Ninety-one specimens, of which only five are females.
Sphex funestus Kohl.
Chapada (March, April) ; Corumba (May) ; Santarem.
Four specimens.
Sphex neotropicus Kohl.
Chapada (March, April) ; Santarem.
Three female, two male specimens, one of the latter with reddish fore legs.
Sphex ingens Sni.
A single male of this huge species, without particular locality or date of capture.
Sphex melanopus Dhlb.
{—ruficavda Tasoh.).
Three specimens.
Uacarizal (February) ; Corumba (May).
Sphex hrasilianus Sauss.
A single specimen of the var.
tinctipennis Cam.
Chapada (April).
Sphex flavipes Sm.
One 9 , six male specimens of the var.
Iheringii Kohl.
Chapada (February, March).
Sphex ichneumoneus Linne.
Four specimens of the typical form from Santarem (February) and Maruru (April).
Three of the var.
dorsalis from same localities.
Over thirty of the var.
sumptuosus collected from February to April.
Sphex duhitatus Cress.
The geographical distribution of this species is extended considerably by three specimens in the present collection, collected at Chapada (February, March) and Corumba (April).
There is also a specimen in the collection of the American Entomological Society marked Mexico.
Four specimens, which may be the $ of this species, have the pubescence denser and more golden, particularly on head in front ; antennae rather long and slender, first joint of flagellum about as long as second and three fourths of third joint united ; face much narrower than in ichneumoneus; petiole about as long as second and third hind tarsal joints united ; legs more or less black ; abdomen with more or less black blotches above ; last ventral plate tridentate apically, the central tooth prolonged, with a carina which runs almost to base of segment, laterally the segment bears a bunch of long yellowish hairs, somewhat concealing the lateral teeth.
Length 17-18 mm.
Corumba and Pedra Branca (April).
Sphex ferrug-ineipes n. sp.
$ .
— Head and thorax black, with pale, not dense pubescence ; face, clypeus at sides, line on pronotum, sides of dorsulum and spots on sides of thorax and at apex of middle segment with silvery pile ; mandibles, except apex, tegula?, legs, except coxse, and base of trochanters, and abdomen, except petiole, entirely, or in part, bright red ; eyes but slightly converging beneath ; face somewhat narrower than in ichneumoneus; clypeus convex, emarginate medially, having the appearance of being bidentate, or entire, front distinctly punctured; space between hind ocelli about equal to that between them and eyes; dorsulum with rather strong separated punctures, those of mesopleurse finer and evener; middle segment above with a transverse, indistinct striation ; tarsal comb well developed, the first fore tarsal joint with six to seven spines ; petiole black, shorter than combined length of second and third hind tarsal joints; abdomen above and beneath with a distinct, sparse punctuation ; wings subhyaline, not yellowish, apical margins broadly darker.
Length 20-22 mm.
$ .
— Colored and clothed like the 9 , the fore margin of the clypeus in addition being sometimes reddish ; space between hind ocelli a little greater than that between them and eyes; first joint of flagellum shorter than the second and third united, the second a little shorter than the third ; last ventral plate indistinctly carinated down middle, its apex prolonged triangularly in the middle.
Length 19-21 mm.
Chapada (March, April, October) ; Corumba (April).
Three 9 , 10 <?
specimens.
Distinguished from ichneumoneus, dubitatus, etc., by sparser pubescence, bright red of abdomen, strongly punctured dorsulum (and clypeus in 9 ), shape of last ventral plate in $ , etc.
Sphex {Priononyx) Thomae Fabr.
Quite a large series of both sexes from various localities, collected in the months of February, March, April, June, September.
Sphex {Priononyx) bifoveolatus T;iscl>.
Twenty-seven 9,13 $ specimens.
Chapada (March, April, November) ; Corumba (April).
Psen aurifrons Tasch.
Chapada (October, November).
Two specimens.
Psen Smithii n. sp.
$.
— Black; antennae basally and beneath, mandibles medially, tegula?, tubercles, fulvous ; tips of femora, four anterior tibia?, base of hind pair, and tarsi, yellowish ; second abdominal segment at base more or less reddish ; abdomen with a bluish metallic cast ; head below antenna?
with dense silvery or pale golden pubescence ; vertex rather finely punctured ; ocelli in a triangle, the space between hind pair about equal to that between them and eyes, the latter converging beneath ; clypeus subtruncate or subemarginate medially ; antenna?
rather stout, perhaps a little shorter than head and thorax ; dorsulum shining, sparsely punctured ; scutellum impressed down middle ; mesopleura?
punctured similarly to dorsulum ; middle segment covered with coarse reticulations, the basal enclosure small, with oblique ruga?
on each side of a smooth, triangular, central area ; petiole of abdomen about as long as hind femur, flat above, not sulcate ; apical margins of segments testaceous ; wings dark subhyaline, iridescent ; stigma testaceous, nervures darker ; second and third submarginal cells each receiving a recurrent nervure, second submarginal cell narrowed about one-third above ; basal vein and cubital of hind wing interstitial.
Length 10 mm.
Chapada (April).
One specimen.
Allied to the North American P. fuscipes.
Stigmus neotropicus Kohl.
One specimen.
Corumba (May).
Stigmus hexagonalis n. sp.
9 .
— Black ; mandibles, except apex, yellowish ; teguke, tubercles, antenna?
and legs, including coxa?, reddish-brown ; cheeks angularly produced beneath; head shining, not striated; ocelli forming a low triangle, placed in pits ; the space between hind pair much less than that between them and eyes ; clypeus acutely bidentate medially ; prothorax above marked by a transverse series of strong fovea?, the antero-lateral angles of pronotum acutely produced, as are also the sides of prothorax ; dorsulum punctured, with three deep parallel furrows, the middle one of which runs to apex, the others hardly half as long; suture between dorsulum and scutellum foveolate ; middle segment coarsely reticulate, at base above with a hexagonal enclosure, which bears a longitudinal medial fold ; petiole robust, shorter than hind tibia?, with two deep sulci above, between which runs a rather sharp ridge.
Length 5 mm.
Chapada (December, January) ; Corumbii (May).
Three specimens.
Seems to be allied to S. temporalis Kohl, from Guatemala, of which only the $ is known.
Trachypus Romandii Sauss.
Two specimens.
Chapada (November, December).
Nysson tomentosus Hdl.
Chapada (December).
One specimen.
Nysson pilosus Sm.
Uacarizal (February).
One specimen.
Bothynostethus sp.
A $ specimen from Santarem I am unable to refer to any of the three described species of Bothynostethus.
It agrees with Saiissurei in the color of wings, but the mandibles are deeply excised and the second discoidal cell is much higher than broad.
In the two latter characteristics it approaches the Mexican B. nitens, but differs in color of wings and larger size (10 mm.).
The clypeus is dentate laterally as in Saussurei, of which it is, perhaps, the $ .
Scapheutes brasilianus Hdl.
One specimen.
Chapada (March).
Gorytes specialis Sin.
Four specimens that agree fairly with the description of specialis.
It is evidently close to G. polybia Hdl., but the suture between dorsulum and scutellum is not foveolate.
Chapada (January) ; Marurii ; Santarem.
Gorytes facilis Sm.
Four specimens.
Corumba (January, April) ; Santarem.
This species belongs, apparently, to the group of G. simillimus as defined by Handlirsch in his monograph.
Gorytes scutellaris Spin.
Marurii (April) ; Chapada (April, November) ; Santarem.
Nine examples.
Gorytes seminiger Dhlb.
One specimen.
Rio de Janeiro (November).
Gorytes cayennensis Spin.
Six specimens.
Marurii (April) ; Rio de Janeiro (November) ; Santarem.
Gorytes fuscus Tasch.
Santarem.
One specimen.
Gorytes valens n. sp.
9 .
— Black ; labrum, clypeus, face below antennae, scape beneath, fore femora and tibife beneath, and apical margin of abdominal segments 2-5, bright yellow ; anterior tarsi, except the first joint internally, and a spot on apical joint, and a ring at base of joints 2, 3 and 5 of the remaining tarsi, pale yellow ; head and thorax with long, grayish hairs, unusually hirsute for Gorytes; eyes strongly converging beneath ; ocelli in a low triangle, situated in depressions or pits : space between hind pair greater than that between them and eyes; clypeus large, convex, somewhat triangular, its fore margin broadly truncate; flagellum rather strongly clavate, the first joint at least twice as long as second ; dorsulum with a distinct, rather strong, even punctuation, and anteriorly in the middle with two, closely parallel, impressed lines ; the remainder of thorax punctured, but less closely than dorsulum, the apex of the large basal area of middle segment being almost smooth ; the middle segment is short and rounded ; mesosternum not at all carinated ; the episternum and epimerum distinctly separated ; wings subhyaline, yellowish along costa, darker in marginal cell ; submedian cell of hind wings terminating beyond the origin of the cubital vein ; legs stout, the tibise serrato-spinose, the spines pale ; abdomen robust, more granulate than punctate, on the first segment, however, and ventrally punctured ; held in certain lights the abdomen is covered with golden pile, the apical segments with long, yellowish hairs; first segment meeting the second broadly, the latter depressed at base above, ventrally truncated at base, and w.ith a tubercle, so that when viewed from the side it is angularly produced ; pygidium large, well developed, aciculate, covered with golden pubescence.
Length 14-26 mm.
Chapada (December).
Three specimens.
Seems to be very distinct from any Gorytes heretofore described.
It seems intermediate of the groups vn/staceus, nigrifrons, etc., and fuscus, robustus.
It agrees with the former in shape of second ventral segment, but the recurrent veins are both received by the second submarginal cell.
From the fuscus group the former of these two characteristics will separate it.
Then again in the eyes, strongly converging toward clypeus, it also differs.
Except for the second ventral segment it is not unlike G. moneduloides, but it is a much more robust insect.
Gorytes partitus n. sp.
9 • — Head and abdomen, except first segment, black ; thorax, first abdominal segment and legs reddish-brown ; clypeus, except medially, labrum, base of mandibles, spot at base of antenna?, scape beneath narrow line on pronotum, dorsulum at sides, tegula?, spot beneath them, scutellum, postscutellum, large spot at each side of middle segment, base of first abdominal segment, and four anterior tibia?
aud tarsi in part, yellow ; eyes distinctly converging beneath clypeus transverse, punctured, broadly truncate ; antenna?
but little thickened apically, the first joint of flagellum about one-third longer than second ; thorax practically impunctured ; suture between dorsulum and scutellum foveolate ; mesosternum carinated, the epimerum and episternum separated ; middle segment convex, divided by a furrow its entire length, the basal area large; tibia?
and tarsi distinctly spinose, pulvilli large, fore tarsi distinctly ciliated ; abdomen subpetiolate, the first segment scarcely coarctate at apex ; second dorsal segment depressed at base, second ventral convex ; pygidium distinct, longitudinally rugose ; wings subhyaline, fuscous along costa and in marginal cell, nervures dark, stigma brown, submedian cell of hind wings terminating distinctly beyond origin of cubital vein : head and thorax with silvery pile, that on the dorsulum brownish.
Length 14 mm.
Chapada (December).
One specimen.
Seems to be related to notabilis Hdl., and fumipennis Sm.
Gorytes coloratus n. sp.
9 .
— Head and thorax black, abdomen, and legs in part, reddishbrown ; scape, clypeus sometimes, mandibles basally, pronotum, scutellum anteriorly, postscutellum, spot beneath tegulse, and on each side of segments 2 and 3, or 2-4, anterior tibire and tarsi entirely, medial tibia?, medial tibise within, and medial, and hind tarsi more or less, yellowish ; flagellum beneath at base, tegulee, tubercles, reddishtestaceous ; dorsulum somewhat iridescent ; head broader than long ; frontal impression deep; eyes large, strongly flattened anteriorly, strongly converging toward clypeus ; ocellii forming a low triangle, placed in depressions ; clypeus distinctly punctured, strongly depressed transversely before the anterior margin ; scape longer than the two following joints united, first joint of flagellum nearly as long as joints 2 and 3 united ; the pronotum appears as a thick, transverse fold; dorsulum shining, with distinct separated punctures; mesosternum not carinated, epimerum and episternum separated, but not very distinctly ; punctuation of mesopleurse stronger than that of the dorsulum; suture between dorsulum and scutellum not foveolate ; scutellum strongly convex ; middle segment with basal enclosure smooth and polished, the posterior face punctured and divided by a deep furrow which begins at the apex of the enclosure ; legs stout, hind tibia?
thickened within at apex ; first joint of medial tarsi somewhat curved; tibiae and tarsi spinose ; pulvilli distinct; abdomen distinctly punctured most strongly on apical segments, first segment slender on basal half, then broadened to the apex, where it is convex, but not coarctate ; pygidium rather large, obtuse at apex, deeply punctured; ventral segments 3-5 puuctured along apical margin only ; wings strongly iridescent, clear, the first and second recurrent nervures interstitial with the first and second transversocubital veins respectively; cubital cell of hind wings terminating much before origin of cubital vein.
Length 9 mm.
Marurii (April) ; Santarem.
Two specimens.
This species belongs, no doubt, close to G. violaceus Hdl., described from a single defective specimen from Brazil, which, with other parts, lacked the abdomen.
The present species is clearly more allied to the bipunetatus group than to chilensis, and it is probable that it and violaceus form a group.
In coloration this new species seems quite distinct from its allies ; it would be interesting to know whether the abdomen of violaceus is similarly colored.
Bembidula discisa Tasch.
Chapada (January, February, March, September, October).
Twenty-three specimens.
Bembidula variegata Oliv.
Chapada (January, March, September, October, December).
Fifteen $, live $ specimens.
Monedula signata Lhme\ Chapada (March).
Three females.
Monedula punctata Pabr.
Eleven $ specimens.
Chapada (March).
Monedula surinamensis DeG.
Twenty specimens, representing both sexes, collected in January, April, September to December, chiefly at Chapada.
Monedula magnifica Perty.
Chapada (March, April).
Sixteen specimens, all females, of this handsome species.
Stizus Bolivarii Hdl.
Chapada (January, December) ; Corumba (February, April) ; Santarem.
Ten specimens, which are probably this species.
They have all the abdominal segments fasciate.
Trypoxylon pallitarse Sauss.
Five specimens.
Santarem (February).
Trypoxylon niveitarse Sauss.
Ten specimens.
Chapada (January, October, December) ; Santarem.
Trypoxylon rufosignatum Tasch.
Chapada (April).
Three specimens.
Trypoxylon fabricator Sm.
Chapada (October).
Three specimens.
This species is probably identical with T. gracile Tasch.
Trypoxylon superbum Sm.
Chapada (April).
One specimen.
Trypoxylon lsevifrons Sm.
One specimen.
Chapada (October).
Trypoxylon laeve n. sp.
9— Deep black, shining; pubescence pale; hind tarsi except base and apex, dirty white ; front with distinct, shallow punctures, furrowed from before anterior ocellus to a slight prominence just behind antennae ; first joint of flagellum about as long as the two following united ; space between eyes above about equal to length of first joint of flagellum, beneath at clypeus it is somewhat less; clypeus carinated down middle, somewhat depressed laterally, its fore margin in the middle subtruncate; face and clypeus with silvery pubescence ; thorax is distinctly punctured ; middle segment with the posterior surface transversely striated, carinated laterally, parted by a deep furrow, the upper surface slightly depressed apically, sides apparently smooth; abdomen rather slender, much more elongate than in allied species, first segment slender, somewhat nodose at apex, fully one-third longer than second segment; the abdomen widens gradually from apex of first segment ; wings fuscous, with blue reflection, pale at base and apex.
Length 17 mm.
$ .
— Colored like 9 > the wings considerably darker ; clypeus squarely produced, sub-tridentate ; antenna?
short, clavate, firstjoint of flagellum curved, apical joint about as long as the three preceding ones united, these latter broader than long ; thorax finely punctured ; middle segment except sides entirely transversely striate, but finely so above at base, where it is also punctured ; hind femora sublaminated beneath toward apex ; abdomen stouter, and probably shorter than in 9 (segments three et seq.
missing), the first segment not spinose beneath.
Length about 16 mm.
Maruru (April) ; Santarem.
Three 9 , one $ , specimens.
Trypoxylon insolitum n. sp.
9 .
— Black ; sides of the first segment and second and third more or less, pale reddish, or testaceous : pubescence of thorax pale, and rather dense ; face and clypeus densely silvery, including the emargination of eyes ; front with unusually coarse transverse rugae or folds, deeply impressed down middle ; the anterior ocellus is placed in this furrow, which becomes shallower below and terminates in a flat projection over the bases of antenna;; first joint of flagellum a little shorter than the two following united ; clypeus not carinated, prominent and rounded at apex ; thorax finely punctured, nearly smooth ; tegula; testaceous ; middle segment above parted by a deep furrow, which is transversely striated, and on each side of which another less distinct, curved furrow is present, posterior surface also parted by a furrow, finely and transversely striated ; abdomen elongate, slender, the first segment almost linear on basal two-thirds, slightly nodose, its length equal to the following segments united ; wings subhyaline, iridescent, nervures dark.
Length 11 mm.
$ .
— Clypeus shorter, subtruncate ; first joint of flagellum slightly louger than two following united, apical joint small, not much longer than the preceding one; middle segment with the furrow deeper than in $ , and the upper and posterior surfaces coarsely and transversely striated ; space between eyes at top greater than length of first joint of flagellum, beneath at clypeus it is slightly less.
Length 12 mm.
Rio de Janeiro (November) ; Santarem.
One of each sex.
Related to fabricator Sm.
and gracile Tasch.
The space between eyes at top and at clypeus is less in the 9, than in the $, an unusual circumstance.
Trypoxylon medianum n. sp.
$ .
— Black ; sides of first and second segments, and the latter at base, reddish ; clothed with pale pubescence, that on face, clypeus, tubercles, and postero-lateral angles of middle segment, pale golden ; a silvery stripe runs below from tegulse ; clypeus tridentate at apex, the median tooth acute and longest ; front apparently granulated, feebly impressed ; a longitudinal raised line behind base of antenna?
; space between eyes at top but slightly greater than that between them at the clypeus, somewhat greater than the length of first joint of flagellum ; the latter subclavate, first joint about as long as two following united, the ultimate joint small, not much longer than the preceding one ; dorsulum and scutellum with distinct, separated punctures, those of mesopleurse finest; middle segment above finely punctato-striate, the posterior surface with distinct transverse stria?
deeply furrowed down middle, sides punctured; hind trochanters not dentate ; abdomen clavate, rather stout, first segment a little nodose, as long as the two following united ; wings subhyaline, apical margins fuscous, nervures dark.
Length 13 mm.
Corumba (April) ; Santarem.
Two specimens.
Trypoxylon fallax n. sp.
9 .
— Black ; sides of the first and second segments and base of the latter reddish ; face, clypeus and suture below tegula?
with silvery pubescence, that on pronotum pale golden ; other pubescence pale ; front coarsely granulated, with a prominence or tubercle behind antenna?, and above it a V-shaped depression ; ocelli situated in depressions ; space between eyes at top about equal to length of first joint of flagellum, beneath at clypeus somewhat less; clypeus flat, somewhat roundly produced, emarginate in middle of fore margin ; thorax with distinct separated punctures ; above the middle segment is finely punctato-striate, depressed slightly at apex, the posterior surface more distinctly striated and sulcate down the middle; first abdominal segment slightly nodose at apex, about one-quarter longer than the second ; wings subhyaline, nervures dark testaceous.
Length 1 3 mm.
Var.
(?).
More subtilely punctured ; clypeus entire.
$ .
— Similar to 9 , with the reddish color on abdomen more extended, the base of segments, 2-3 being of that color, and first joint of tarsi pale at base ; clypeus roundly emarginate ; first joint of flagellum slightly curved, the last joint but little longer than the penultimate ; hind trochanters not dentate.
Length 12 mm.
Chapada (March) ; Maruru ; Santarem.
Three 9 , one 2 , specimens.
Closely resembles medianum, but the clypeus is emarginate, not dentate, front more coarsely granulated and with a V-shaped depression, etc.
In addition to the foregoing species of Trypoxylon the collection contains eight other species, apparently new, represented by single specimens, which, for that reason and to the inadequate descriptions of many neotropical species, I have refrained from describing at the present time.
Oxybelus marginatum 8m.
A single specimen from Santarem.
Oxybelus americanus Spin.
Five specimens.
Chapada (May, December) ; Maruru (April) ; Santarem.
Crabro pugnans Sm.
Chapada (April).
One specimen.
Pugnans belongs to the group Crossocerus.
Crabro carinatus Sua.
Two specimens.
Pedra Branca (April) ; Rio de Janeiro (November).
Seems to belong to Solenius group, as characterized in Kohl's table.
Crabro verticalis Sm.
Fourteen specimens, all females.
Chapada (January, March, May, December).
This species apparently belongs to Crossocerus group.
Crabro atitlanse Cam.
Two specimens from Rio de Janeiro (November) and Benivedes (July) I refer with some doubt to atitlance.
If not identical they are closely allied.
Crabro productus n. sp.
9 .
— Head large, closely punctured ; ocelli in a curved line, space between hind pair slightly, if anything, less than that between them and e) T es; clypeus sharply carinated, its fore margin rounded medially ; first joint of flagellum about one-third longer than second ; pronotum bordered anteriorly by a sharp carina, terminating in a small tooth laterally ; dorsulum rugoso-punctate, more sparsely posteriorly, depressed down middle and bicarinate; scutellum with large, separated punctures ; mesopleurse longitudinally rugose, the mesosternum shining, with distant punctures; middle segment divided by a longitudinal furrow, which is deepest within the basal enclosure, which is large and rather finely rugose; posterior face with transverse folds on rugse, not margined laterally, the sides microscopically striated ; tibiae distinctly spinose ; first dorsal abdominal segment with coarse, separated punctures, with a margin of fine ones at apex ; the second segment less strongly punctured ; the remaining dorsals finely punctured ; ventrals shining, the second with large, sparse punctures, the third, fourth and fifth with a transverse series of punctures before apex ; pygidium narrow, rounded at apex, depressed, with large punctures.
Black ; cheeks and sides of thorax with silvery pubescence, that on face and clypeus golden, silvery in part in certain lights ; scape, line on mandibles, pronotum, tubercles, line on metanotum, spot at apex of four anterior femora beneath, a line on all the tibiae externally, the hind pair almost entirely, base of hind tarsi, large spot on each side of first two dorsal segments connected by a narrow line, a medially narrowed fascia on dorsals 3-5, sixth almost entirely and a short line at each side of ventrals 2, 3, or 2-4, at apex, yellow ; wings subbyaline, nervnres testaceous.
Length about 9 mm.
$ .
— Similar to 9 ; space between hind ocelli distinctly less than that between them and eyes ; third and fourth joints of flagellum uniting in such a way as to form an emargination beneath, the fourth joint rather prominent at apex ; furrowing forming the enclosure of middle segment foveolate ; punctuation of mesosternum and second ventral segment finer and closer than in the $ , but that of the abdomen dorsally is coarser ; four anterior femora yellow at apex, a spot at apex of hind pair beneath ; joints 1-3 of medial tarsi produced at apex on inner side.
Length 8 mm.
Chapada (March, April, November, December).
One $ example is very small, 5 mm.
According to Kohl's table, belongs in the Solenius group.
The collection also contains several additional species of Crabro, probably new to science, but represented by single specimens.
A REVISION OF THE GENUS SYNIDOTEA.
* BY JAMES E. BENEDICT, PH.D.
Among the unnamed Isopods in the National Museum seven species regarded as new have been referred to Synidotea as defined by Harger.
Of the eight described species of the genus, five were in the collection and an additional one was loaned by the California Academy of Sciences.
With so many new, and six of the eight described species at hand, it was thought best to treat the genus monographically, and the descriptions of the two remaining species were added.
The new species all come from the North Pacific Ocean and Bering Sea.
One was taken in San Francisco Bay by Mr. C. H. Townsend while examining the oyster beds for the U. S. Fish Commission ; the others were dredged by the ' Albatross,' one off the State of Washington and five in Bering Sea ; two of the latter had, however, previously been taken by Mr. W. H. Dall.
The bathymetrical range of the genus is from shallow water to 695 fathoms.
The geographical range is as follows : One species in South African waters, one from Japan, one from Lower California, two from California, one off the State of Washington, seven in Bering Sea and the adjacent waters of the Arctic Ocean, and two from the North Atlantic.
The genus Synidotea was instituted by Harger in 1878 to receive Idotea bieuspida Owen and /.
nodulosa Krjzfyer.
The two species now represent the two sections of the genus ; the bieuspida section contains eleven and the nodulosa four species.
All of the species come well within the limits of the genus.
The antennre of all have multi-articulate flagella.
The palpus of the maxillipeds has but three joints.
The epimera of the four anterior segments are indicated, if at all, by a slight notch or pit in the posterior margins midway between the lateral margins and the median line ; the epimera of the three posterior segments are distinctly outlined in a dorsal view, and are solidly united to the true * Published by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
26 segmental margins.
The abdomen is composed of two segments united above but separated at the sides by short incisions.
In addition to the above generic characters, most species agree in having the head excavated in front, a cross-like areolation between the eyes, the extremities of the cross being usually armed with tubercles or spines ; in having a spine or tubercle between the eyes and the front.
A deep transverse suture near the back of the head cuts off a postcephalic lobe or areolation ; between this areolation and the cross are two lateral areolations, sometimes united at the base and sometimes separated by a channel.
The sides of the thorax in all species show undulations or nodules of more or less prominence.
The section of the genus of which bicuspida is the type is characterized by having the distal end of the abdomen emarginate or bicuspid, while in the nodulosa section the end is bluntly pointed.
The basal plates of the operculum in all species except harfordi are crossed by a diagonal line or ridge.
SYNIDOTEA Harger.
Synidotea Harger, American Journal of Science (3), XV, p. 374, 1878.
Edotia Miers, Journal Linn.
Soc.
Lond., XVI, p. 65 (pars), 1 1883.
Synidotea G. O. Sars, Norwegian North Atlantic Expedition, Crust., p. 116, 1885.
Synidotea Harger, character emended.
"Antenna?
with an articulated flagellum."
Epimeral sutures not evident above on the first four segments; on the last three the lines of demarcation are more or less distinct. "
Pleon apparently composed of two segments, united above but separated at the sides by short incisions.
Operculum with a single apical plate.
Palpus of maxillipeds three-jointed."
1 Miers, in his " Revision of the Idoteidre " in this journal, unites several genera under Edotia Guerin-Meneville, then arranges Edotia in three sections as follows : # Antenmv well developed, with the flagellum composed of several joints.
Postabdomen uniarticulate.
(Synidotea).
'0.
Antenna?
very small, with the flagellum rudimentary ; postabdomen uniarticulate.
(Edotia).
§§| Flagellum of the antenna; obsolete; postabdomen biarticulate.
(Desmareslia, Epelys. )
In this arrangement Professor Sars does not concur, but says in regard to Synidotea, " This genus was first instituted by Harger, and should unquestionably be maintained."
Key to Species Examined.
a Abdomen emarginate or notched at the distal end.
b Two spines or tubercles overhanging the frontal notch.
c Spines united near the base.
pallida c' Tubercles free at the base.
erosa b' No spines or tubercles overhanging the frontal notch.
c With a low ridge arising between the eyes and interrupted on the median line.
d Outlines of abdomen subparallel.
nebulosa d' Outlines strongly arcuate.
angulata c' Without a ridge between the eyes.
d Outline of abdomen subtriangular.
e Front not excavated.
* consolidata e' Front excavated.
f Outlines of thorax subparallel.
marmorata f Outlines of thorax strongly arcuate.
bicuspida d' Outlines of abdomen rounded.
e Length of abdomen equal to width at base.
laticauda e' Length of abdomen equal to one and one-half times the width at base.
harfordi a' Abdomen pointed.
b Undulations of the body not tubercular or spiny.
c Tubercle in front of the eyes not margined.
nodulosa c' Tubercle on the frontal margin and forming a part of it.
Icevis b' Undulations of the body tubercular and spiny.
c Four spines on the front of the head; body spinous.
m uricata c' A wedge-shaped tubercle behind the frontal notch ; body tubercular.
picta Synidotea bicuspida (Owen).
Fig.
1.
Idotea bicuspida Owen, Crustacea of the ' Blossom,' p. 92, pi.
xxvii, fig.
6, 1839.
Idotea pulchra Lockington, Proc.
CaliAcad.
Sci., VII.
p. 44, 1877.
Edotia bicuspida Miers, Journal of the Linnean Society of London, XVI, p. 66, 1883 (pars).
Synidotea bicuspida Sars, Crustacea, Norwegian North Atlantic Exped , p. 116, pi.
X, figs.
24-26, 1885; equal to Synidotea incisa Sars, Crustacea et Pycnogonida nova, etc., No.
8.
392 [1897.
Fig.
1.
Synidotea bicuspida (Owen), xf There are a large number of specimens of this species in the collection from Bering Sea and the Arctic Ocean.
The species is the largest and its shell is the heaviest and strongest of any in the geuus.
This and the closely related Atlantic form, S. marmorata Packard, and the small Californian species S. consolidata (Stimpson), are easily distinguished from any known species by the triangular abdomen with a comparatively sharp bicuspid apex.
Some of the largest specimens measure 31 mm.
in length and 14.5 in width.
Shallow water to 56 fathoms.
Synidotea marmorata (Packard).
Fig.
2.
Idotsea marmorata Packard, Memoirs Boston Society of Natural History, I, p. 296, pi.
viii, fig.
6, 1867.
Whiteaves, Canad.
Nat., p. 262.
1875.
Idotea 'marmorata equals I. bicuspida Streets and Kingsley, Bulletin Essex Institute, IX, p. 108, 1877. ?
IdotJiea rugulosa Buehholz, Zweite Deutsche Nordpolarf., II, p. 285, 1874.
Synidotea bimspida Harger, Proceedings U. S. National Museum, II, p. 160, 1879; also U. S. Fish Commission Keport for 1878, p. 352, 1880.
Edotia bicuspida Miers, Jour.
Linn.
Soc.
Loud., XVI, p. 06, 1SS3 (pars).
This species was described by A. S. Packard, Jr., in his paper on the " Recent Invertebrate Fauna of Labrador " from specimens taken in Kyuetarbuck Bay in seven fathoms on a sandy bottom.
The National Museum series consists of four specimens from Station 2,431, lat.
N. 43° 00' 00", Ion.
W. 50° 47' 30", 129 fathoms; one from Station 2,436, lat.
N. 43° 36' 00", Ion.
W. 50° 06' 30", 36 fathoms, and five from the Gloucester fishermen.
Compared with S. bicuspida it is not so wide ; the thin epimeral projections so prominent in bicuspida are much reduced in this species ; the joints of the antenna?
are relatively longer and more slender in marmorata.
The average size of the specimens of marmorata is much Fig.
2.
Synidotea marmorata Packard, x 2h.
1897.]
393 smaller than those of bicuspida; a larger series might change this.
The largest male S. marmorata measures 18 mm.
in length and 7 mm.
in width.
A male S. bicuspida of about equal size, measures 17 mm.
in length and 8 in width.
Synidotea consolidata (Stimpson).
Fig.
3.
Idotea consolidata Stimpson, Proc Cal.
Acad.
Sci , I, p. (89) 97, 1856, also Boston Jour.
Nat.
Hist., VI, p. 503, 1857.
Edotia bicuspida (nee Idotea bicuspida Owen) Miers, Jour.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond., XVI, p. 66, 1883 (pars).
Two specimens of this species, labelled 'Pacific Grove, California,' were received from Mr. J. O. Snyder.
The front is emarginate, the median notch is large.
The deep excavation of the front in S. bicuspida is in sharp contrast to the nearly straight front of this species.
Behind the frontal notch is a pair of large, blunt tubercles transversely placed.
The lateral margins of the thorax are subparallel in the male and strongly arcuate in the female.
The margins are incised in this species ; in bicuspida they are full.
There is a line of low swellings on the median line and another line of like swellings part way beFig 3.
Synidotea contween the median line and the margin.
The solidata (Stimpson).
xf.
* abdomen is much like that of bicuspida.
Synidotea laticauda, new species.
Fig.
4.
A single specimen of Synidotea was taken by Mr. C. H. Townseud in San Francisco Bay ; it is readily distinguished from any species yet described.
The head is wider than long, the anterior margin is nearly straight and is slightly produced horizontally ; its whole upper surface is evenly swollen and has neither elevations nor depressions of any kind ; the cephalic lobe is little more than indicated.
The eyes are large, round, lateral and but very slightly projecting.
The antenna?
are equal Fig.
4.
Synidotea laticauda Benedict, x 2J * Incorrect.
The antennae should be placed as in the others and show seven or eight joints in the flagella.
394 [1897. to the head and thorax in length, the flagellum has twenty-one articles.
The basal segment of the peduncle is short, reaching but a little beyond the front ; the second segment is as broad as long ; the third segment is about once and a half as long as broad ; the fourth is a little more than twice the breadth ; the fifth is nearly as long as the third and fourth together.
The antennulse extend a little beyond the base of the fourth segment of the antenna?.
The thorax is widest at the fourth segment.
From the sides of the fourth segment the outline curves around to the eye.
Posteriorly from the fourth segment the outline is straight to the distal third of the abdomen.
The second, third and fourth segments are longest.
There are no spines or tubercles anywhere and the rugosities so common to the species of the genus are barely indicated.
The abdomen is very little longer than its breadth at the base.
It tapers gradually for the first two-thirds of its length where it begins to taper more rapidly to a broad emarginate extremity.
The feet are sparsely set with coarse hair.
The valves of the operculum are diagonally crossed by a curved line.
The specimen is clouded with dark patches made up of small black spots.
This species can be distinguished from any other yet described by its broadly emarginate abdomen.
Length 17 mm., width 7 mm.
(No.
20,504, U. S. N. M.).
Synidotea nebulosa, new species.
Fig.
5.
The front of the head is excavated ; between the median notch and the antero-lateral margin the outline is emarginate ; between the margin and the eyes the protuberances are but little elevated ; the cross areolation is smooth ; the lateral areolations are separated by an extension of the cross ; this extension is itself slightly divided by a slightly impressed line.
The depression in front of the postcephalic lobe is deep.
The sides of the head extend to the vertical line of the eyes, cutting off the vision from objects directly below.
The antennae are about 6 mm.
in Benedict.
Fig.
5.
Synidotea nebulosa 395 1897.]
length in a large specimen and have a ten-jointed flagellum ; the distal joint of the peduncle is 1.5 mm.
in length.
The outline of the thorax is ovate in both sexes; the undulations are distinct; the fourth segment is the longest.
The epimeral sutures of the three posterior segments can be made out under a lens.
The incisions on the sides of the abdomen are short ; the areolations at the base and summit are large and smooth.
The lateral outline of the anterior half is straight or slightly concave, of the posterior half convex.
The distal end is slightly excavated.
Several specimens of both sexes were taken at Station 3,600 in company with S. picta, and at Station 3,637 in 32 fathoms.
Mr. Dall obtained them at Unalaska in 16 fathoms ; at Kyska Harbor, 9 to 16 fathoms; Semidi Islands, 12 to 25 fathoms.
Types (No.
20,503, U. S. N. M.) from Station 3,600, lat.
N. 55° 06' 00", Ion.
W. 163° 28' 00", 9 fathoms.
This species can be distinguished at sight from all other alcoholic specimens of the genus by its dark-colored head and fourth segment, and by the dark line surrounding the elevated portions of the abdomen.
The first and last three segments of the thorax are light with small flakes of black uniformly sprinkled over the surface; the median line of the first three is usually broad and dark.
Length of a large male, 17 mm.
; width, 6.5 mm.
Length of a large female, 15 mm.
; width, 7 mm.
Synidotea angulata, new species.
Fig.
6.
This is a small species easily distinguished from the others of the genus in its region by the angular and projecting lateral margins of the first three thoracic segments ; it is most nearly related to S. nebulosa.
The head is excavated in front in a nearly even curve, and there is no distinct median notch as in nebulosa.
Between the eyes and the front the tubercles are very low and inconspicuous ; the cross areolation is a low ridge interrupted in the middle by a V-shaped notch ; the lateral areolations of other species, in this, form a single transverse areolation not at all separated in the middle ; it is separated from the postcephalic lobe by a deep impression.
The sides of the head Fig.
6.
Synidotea angulata Benedict, x ♦.
396 [1897. do not extend to the vertical line of the eyes.
The flagellum of the antenna?
has nine or ten joints.
The sides of the thorax are very much less arcuate than in nebulosa, and where in the latter species the margins are rounded, in this they project in obtuse angles; the lateral margins of the three posterior segments are straight.
The abdomen is very, much as in nebulosa.
In color this species in part simulates nebulosa.
In the specimens examined it lacks the black flakes, there is a line of spots near the margin and one in line with the epimeral lines.
The largest good specimen is 11 mm.
in length.
Stations 2,868, 2,869 and 2,872, in 31 to 38 fathoms.
Station 2,869, lat.
N. 47° 38' 00", Ion.
W. 124° 39' 00" ; 32 fathoms.
Types (No.
20,506, U. S. N. M.).
Synidotea pallida, new species.
Fig.
7.
The frontal margin is deeply and evenly concave, there being no median notch.
The surface between the eyes is protuberant and is divided by a slight median impressed line.
In the angle formed by the raised portion between the eyes and the horizontal front are two hornlike tubercles united at the bases by a very short ridge across the median line.
The cephalic suture is deep but closed at tlie bottom.
The peduncles of the antenna?
are about equal to the flagella in length ; the latter have from 12 to 16 segments.
The eyes are small, situated at a distance from the margin on slight elevations.
The sides of the head and of all the thoricic segments are thin and produced, nearly horizontal.
The four anterior segments are long, with rounded post-lateral angles, the three posterior segments are short with subacute angles.
On each side at a little distance from the median line on the 2d, 3d and 4th segments is a single spine.
In young specimens the spines are proportionately longer and they are replaced on the posterior segments by low Fig.
7.
Synidotea pallida Benedict.
x2J.
1897.]
397 tubercles ; the median line is also tubercular.
The legs are long and slender on the 7th segment, a little shorter on the 6th, and so on to the 1st which are quite short.
The abdomen is markedly narrower than the 7th segment, it tapers gradually to a point near the end which is broad and well rounded, the median line ends in a small concavity best seen with a lens.
Excepting the usual lateral incisions, the upper surface is smooth and glabrous.
A large male measures 22 mm.
in length and 7.5 in breadth ; a female, with eggs, 12 mm.
in length and 4.5 in breadth.
Not less than one thousand specimens of this species were dredged off Chirikoff Island, Alaska, at Station 3,340, lat.
N. 55° 26' 00", Ion.
W. 155° 26' 00", 695 fathoms (No.
20,500, U. S. N. M.).
Synidotea erosa, new species.
Fig.
8.
Several specimens of this species were dredged at Station 3,210 oft* Sannakh Islands, Alaska, in 483 fathoms ; lat.
N. 54° 00' 00", Ion.
W. 162° 40' 30" (No.
20,505, U. S. N. M.).
Erosa is more nearly related to S. pallida than to any species yet discovered, as in the latter there are two horn-like protuberances just back of the frontal margin.
The cephalic suture is the same except that it is more open at the bottom.
The other protuberances and depressions of the head are the same, except that in erosa, there is a prominent tubercle between the eyes and the front ; in S. pallida this is lacking, or, if represented at all, by a low swelling.
All of the projections of the head are more or less eroded.
The segments of the thorax have very low tubercles or slight swellings where the spines are situated in pallida.
The rugse of the lowest portions of the thorax are much more prominent in this species.
In outline erosa is narrower and less arcuate, the outer margins of the segments are much less produced.
The 7th segment is not noticeably wider than the base of the abdomen.
The abdomen holds its width to a point beyond the middle, whence it is rounded to the terminus, which, as in Fig.
8.
Synidotea erosa Benedict.
r pallida, is slightly concave.
The slightly arcuate outline of the thorax running into the straight outline of the abdomen differentiates this from all other species of the genus.
Other differences are, the larger eyes situated nearer the margin of the head, the very hairy edges of the valve, and the sparsely granulated abdomen.
The length of the adults from which the foregoing description is made ranges from 21 to 22 mm.
A female, about 14 mm.
in length, has arcuate lateral margins, and all of the tubercles of the large male are exaggerated in size ; the tubercles between the eyes and the front and the pair separated by the median line form a row of four large tubercles on the front.
The young males have almost parallel sides ; the median tubercles of the front are swollen and much eroded, as are all of the prominences of the head.
On each of the first four segments of the thorax is a median tubercle on the transverse ridge and also a smaller one in front of it ; there is another row of tubercles on the sides.
The sides of the abdomen are rough and warty.
Synidotea nodulosa (Kr/yer).
The limits of this species are hard to define.
All of the species with pointed abdomens are very similar, yet constitute, I believe, good species.
Abundant material will not unlikely show that additional species must be recognized.
Kr^yer described nodulosa from South Greenland ; Harger had several specimens from the Eastern Fishing Banks and also records them from off Queen Charlotte Island.
I have not found nodulosa in the west coast collections.
A dry specimen from Jugor Schar presented by the Royal Zoological Museum of Copenhagen has the cross areolation between the eyes armed with four tubercles, the two on the transverse line are slightly compressed, those on the median line are united at the base, the posterior one is much the larger ; the areolations between the postcephalic lobe and the cross are well elevated, coarsely punctate, and divided on the median line ; the tubercles between the margin and the eyes are well elevated and free from the margin.
On each segment of the thorax a short ridge crosses the median line, forming a slightly elevated angular tubercle on the line.
The abdomen measures at the base about four-fifths of its length, or 4.2 mm.
broad to 5.3 long.
A specimen from the fishing banks of the northeast coast is probably nearer Kr^fyer's type than any other in the collection ; in this the cross is armed with four tubercles that are much less conspicu1897.]
399 ous than those of the Jugor Schar specimen, the posterior one on the median line is the largest and is not so positively united at the base ; the areolations behind the cross are not so elevated, and are but faintly punctate ; in this and in some smaller specimens they are united on the median line ; the tubercles in front of the eyes are not so nearly vertical and are much more angular ; the transverse ridges are not so large but more acute, with slight tubercles at their intersection with the median line.
The abdomen measures at its base 8.2 mm.
in breadth, its length is 4.25 mm.
In 8.
Icevis the cross is armed with but a single tubercle on the median line ; this is not vertical as in nodulosa, but horizontal, and when seen from above covers the median notch of tbe front, otherwise the cross is a smooth areolation with slightly elevated transverse extremities.
The areolations behind the cross are smooth and broadly united at the median line.
The tubercles in front of the eyes arise from the margin and form a part of it.
The segments of the thorax are inconspicuously tubercular on the median line.
The breadth of the abdomen at the base is 4 mm., length 5.4 mm.
Synidotea laevis, new species.
Fig.
9.
Numerous specimens from Stations 3,252, lat.
N. 57° 22' 20", Ion.
W. 164° 24' 40", 29i fathoms, and 3,253, lat.
N. 57° 05' 50", Ion.
W. 164° 27' 15", 36 fathoms, respectively, differ from S. nodulosa and its near allies by the lack of three tubercles on the head and the less prominent elevations of the thorax.
The cross-like areolation between the eyes is smooth with the exception of a single tubercle which is prolonged horizontally over the median notch.
The tubercles which in nodulosa arise between the eyes and the front, in this spex ?• cies arise at the margin and form a part of it.
They are less erect than in nodulosa and are more angular.
Harger says of nodulosa, " Color in alcohol gray, often with brownish transverse markings;" these specimens are gray in alcohol with a dark, broken, median line on the anterior segments.
Fig.
9.
Synidotea laevis Benedict.
Length 15 mm., breadth 4.8 mm.
Types (No.
20,501, U. S. N. M.).
Synidotea muricata (Harford).
Fig.
in.
Hotcea muricata Harford.
Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sei., VII, Pt.
I, p. 117, (1876), 1877.
Six specimens, taken by the 'Corwin ' off Icy Cape differ from all other species of the genus yet described by the spiny nature of the dorsal surface, head and pleon included.
The locality is lat.
70° 15' 00" N., long.
162° 55' 00" W., in 25 fathoms.
The head is deeply excavated in front, the margin running inward from the lateral prolongations to a median notch.
The flagella of the antennjB have from 10 to 12 segments.
A small spine overhangs the median notch, a second spine is situated a little behind the first, a third is in line on the posterior lobe; two other spines, one on each side of the first two, form, in connection with them, the figure of a diamond; the spines of the median line are at the obtuse angles.
A little behind the margin and in front of the eye is a short spine with a compressed base.
Spines with compressed bases are not peculiar to the front, but begin on the postcephalic lobe and extend to the end of the thorax situated on transverse ridges and forming the median line of spines.
The spines on the abdomen are not compressed.
On either side of the median line is a lateral line of spines ; below these spines on each segment is a group of five spines arranged in two transverse rows, three in the anterior and two in the posterior rows.
The abdomen has two transverse ridges, the basal ridge has three spines and the next ridge five.
On each side is a group of from five to nine very short spines, the number varying according to the size of the specimen.
The abdomen is broad at the base, constricted at about the middle and runs out to an acute terminus.
The specimens have been in poor alcohol too long to make color notes of any value.
Length of a large specimen 21 mm., breadth 7 mm.
Fig.
10.
Synidotea muricata Harford, x 2i.
1897.]
401 Fig.
11.
Synidotea picta Benedict, x #.
Synidotea picta, new species.
Figs.
11 and 12.
The head is deeply excavated in front ; the notch is deep ; the tubercles in front of the eyes are near to and overhang the margin.
The median line of the cross areolation is elevated into a wedge-shaped ridge which overhangs the notch in a vertical view ; the transverse extremities of the cross are elevated forming tubercles ; the lateral areolations are protuberant and are separated by a deep depression which unites with the depression in front of the postcephalic lobe and the one behind the cross, altogether forming a B shaped depression.
The elevated portions of the head are pitted.
The flagellum of the antennae is composed of eight or nine segments.
From the anterior angles the body widens to the fourth segment ; from this point it diminishes evenly in size to the end of the abdomen.
All of the segments have low swellings on the median line and numerous rugosities on the sides.
The extremity of the abdomen is pointed ; the surface is punctate.
This species is beautifully colored ; the antennal peduncles are patched with dark, the anterior margins of the head are in some specimens blotched with rose ; the rugosities of the thorax are tinged with red, the abdomen is blotched Avith red and dark.
In the more highly colored specimens the lower portion of the segments are light and red, except on the fourth which is always dark.
The legs have a patch of dark on each joint.
The length of a large specimen is 14 mm.
The seven type specimens were dredged at Station 3,600, lat.
N. 55° 06' 00", Ion.
W. 163° 28' 00", 9 fathoms, in company with S. nebulosa (No.
20,502, U. S. N. M.).
Variety.
— Specimens obtained by Mr. Dall in Bering Strait (No.
13,311, U. S. N. M.), Fig.
12.
Synidotea picta, var.
x 3.
1* 402 [1897. and at Cape Lisburne (No.
13,325, U. S. N. M.) and by Lieutenant Stoney in Norton Sound (No.
13,641, U. S. N. M.), differ from the types in having a stouter abdomen and a much more solid shell; they also lack color, not unlikely because of the greater length of time in alcohol.
These specimens come from localities far to the north of the station where the types were obtained.
More material in a fresh state may show sound lines of demarcation that are not sufficiently evident in the material at hand.
Synidotea harfordi, new name.
Fig.
13.
Idot&a marmoraia Harford, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci., VII, p. 117, 1877.
The name given by Mr. Harford was preoccupied by Professor Packard in 1867.
(See p. 392).
The front of the head is nearly straight, the sides are bent abruptly downward and inward ; the eyes are on the angle thus formed, extending the range of vision to objects beneath.
The length of the antennae laid off on the median line reaches from the front to the middle of the sixth thoracic segment ; the fifth joint of the peduncle equals in length the third and fourth taken together ; the flagellum has twenty-two segments.
The body is widest at the second and third segments, tapering forward to the anterolateral angles of the head ; its anterior outline is arcuate ; posteriorly the body tapers to the end of the narrow abdomen in nearly straight lines.
The four anterior segments are the longest.
The surface of the body is finely punctate under a lens.
The median line of the thorax is dark-colored ; on the second, third and fourth segments is a light and slightly impressed V-shaped line, the V opening forward ; on these segments there is also on each side of the V a diagonally-placed light spot shaped like a half-moon : the surface is elsewhere spotted and blotched with light and dark.
The specimen is labelled ' Magdalena Bay, L. C, "W. J.
Fisher.'
Length 16.5 mm., breadth 5 mm.
Fig.
13.
Synidotea harfordi Benedict, new name, x 3i.
Synidotea hirtipes (Milne-Edwards).
Idotea hirtipes Milne-Edwards, Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., Ill, p. 134, 1S40.
Krauss, Die Sudafrikan.
Crust., p. 61, 1843.
Edotia hirtipes Miers, Jour.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond., XVI, p. 68, 1883.
Miers' description of Milne-Edwards' type is as follows : " In this species the body is somewhat ovate, moderately convex, arcuated on the sides, evenly granulated above, with large inequalities on the sides of the thoracic segments at some distance from the lateral margins.
Head with the anterior margin very slightly excavated, and with a semicircular curved impressed line posterior to its frontal margin, and another, nearly straight line near its posterior margin ; its antero-lateral angles prominent and nearly right angles.
The first three thoracic segments with an impressed curved line in the middle of the dorsal surface, and rounded at their postero-lateral angles ; in none of the segments are these angles prolonged backward.
Postabdomen short, rounded posteriorly, with a fissure on each side at its base, and with a small and shallow median emargination at its distal end.
Eyes large.
Antennules reaching nearly to the end of the penultimate joint of the antennse, with their basal joints very small.
Terminal joint of the peduncle of the antennse longer than the preceding ; flagellum with about 14-21 joints.
Legs long, slender, hairy, and terminating in a long claw.
Terminal plates of the opercular valves irregularly four-sided, being much narrowed at the distal end.
Length of the largest specimen nearly 1 inch (2.5 mm.
), breadth nearly tj inch (10 mm.)."
Localities, Cape of Good Hope (Types) ; Simon's Bay, South Africa, in 4-7 fathoms.
Synidotea lsevidorsalis (Miers).
Edotia hirtipes, var.
Isevidorsalis Miers, Jour.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond., XVI, p. 69, pi.
Ill, figs.
1, 2, 1883.
Miers says of this species " Two males are in the collection of the Museum from Jatiyama Bay, Japan, obtained at a depth of 6i fathoms, lat.
39° 2' N., long.
189° 50' E., presented by Dr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys and collected by Capt.
H. C. St. John, B,.
N., that differ so slightly from I. hirtipes that I cannot regard them as specifically distinct.
The body is quite smooth in the larger example, and very nearly so in the smaller (which is of larger size than any specimen of the typical I. hirtipes that I have seen), and in both is of a decidedly narrower-oval form ; the antero-lateral angles of the head are perhaps not so prominent and more rounded ; the eyes are smaller.
Length of the largest example about 1 inch, 1 line (28 millim.)
; breadth about ts inch (10 millim.).
In this specimen the flagellum of the antennae is about 30-jointed, but in the smaller example (length f inch, 21 millim.)
only about 21-jointed."
