NEW AND LITTLE-KNOWN NORTH AMERICAN BEES.
BY T. D. A. COCKERELL.
Osmia viridimicans n. sp.
» 9 .
Length 12 ram., brilliant peacockgreen, the pubescence entirely black.
Head large, thorax ordinary, abdomen somewhat elongate, the straight sides almost parallel, but slightly diverging to the fourth segment ; after which the sides rapidly converge, meeting at the apex at about a right angle.
The light shines on the abdomen in such a way as to give the impression of deep sutures, which in fact do not exist.
Punctuation ordinary, punctures of vertex and mesothorax distinct and separable.
Basal area of mesothorax with its lower portion smooth and shining.
Lower part of face bluer than the vertex ; cheeks broader than eyes ; black pubescence of face tolerably abundant ; front edge of clypeus black, straight, not produced at sides; mandibles 4-dentate; teguke green ; wings smoky, hyaline, apical margin broadly darker, no dark streak in marginal cell; first recurrent nervure reaching second submarginal cell a very short distance from its base, second recurrent reaching it at the beginning of the apical fourth ; legs bright green, the tarsi black ; ventral scopa entirely black.
Hab.
— Olympia, Wash., one 9 , June 5, 1895 (T. Kincaid).
Readily known by its large size and the characters italicized.
Mr. Fox sends me a Nevada example of 0. maura, which though entirely black, has the same form as viridimicans, and agrees in having the second recurrent nervure reaching the second submarginal cell quite at the beginning of the apical fourth.
Osmia cobaltina Cresson, 1878.
Three 9 s from Pasco, Wash., May 25, 1896 (T. Kincaid), are of a very beautiful deep blue color, and agree with Cresson's description.
•Osmia kincaidii n. sp.
9 .
Length 6 to 8 mm., brilliant peacock-green, the pubescence very sparse, black and dirty white mixed.
Head large, thorax subglobose, abdomen short and oval.
Punctuation ordinary, punctures distinctly separated on mesothorax, closer and largely confluent on vertex.
Facial triangle higher than broad ; the face may be all blue, or green with the lower portion blue ; the thin pubescence, even on the clypeus, is black and pale intermixed ; cheeks about as broad as eyes ; antenna?
wholly dark ; anterior edge of clypeus a little produced, black, broadly truncate, sometimes a little depressed in middle; mandibles with two large teeth, the third tooth, if present, is not visible when they are closed ; thorax with mixed black and pale hairs, especially long on scutellum ; basal area of metathorax minutely granular, not shining ; tegular punctured, green with sometimes a purple spot; wings smoky ; nervures black; first recurrent nervure joining second submarginal cell a little less than one-third from its base, second joining it a little less than one-fourth from the apex ; legs green, tarsi black, hind tarsi sometimes submetallic on basal joint; dorsal surface of abdomen almost nude, the sparse short pubescence mixed black and pale; ventral scopa wholly black.
$ .
Length 5?
to 8 mm., bright bottle-green, that is, a much yellower green than the 9 • Pubescence of head and thorax more copious, nowhere mixed with black ; creamy white on clypeus, cheeks beneath, femora and lower part of thorax, pale ochreous on vertex and dorsum of thorax, especially scutellum ; wings a little clearer ; tarsi more distinctly metallic ; the scanty pubescence of abdomen all light ; sixth dorsal segment barely notched, seventh strongly emarginate ; seventh ventral segment greenish-blue, large, its hind margin rounded, with pale pubescence.
Hab.
— Olympia and Seattle, Wash. (T. Kincaid).
The specimens can be separated into two general series, one larger, the other smaller and with more globose abdomen.
After careful study, I fail to find specific characters separating these, but if it should be subsequently held that they are different, the type is to be considered the larger form.
The females are, with one exception, of the larger size ; the males are, with three exceptions, of the smaller ; both forms were taken at the same time and locality.
The exact data are as follows : Seattle: 1 9 May 14, 1897, on Rub us ursimis ; 1 $ April 14, 1897, on sand bank ; 1 $ April 18, 1897.
Olympia : 6 9 , 3 June 1st, one June 2d, one June 21st, one July 1st.
13 $ , one May 11th, two May 5th, one May 23rd, three May 25th, one May 28th, one June 13th, two April 25th, on Fragaria; two April 22d, on Taraxacum.
The female of 0. kincaidii is easily separable from anything described, by its brilliant color, small size, and partly pale pubescence on thorax and face.
The S is not so easily separated, and should be compared with exigua from California, bella from Colorado, and illinoensis from Illinois.
It agrees with Cresson's description of exigua except that none of the specimens are quite so small, and the tarsi are not testaceous, but black with a metallic tint, the last joint rufescent or wholly dark.
From bella it will be known at once by the absence of black pubescence on the abdomen.
From illinoensis it differs by the distinctly infuscated wings, the second submarginal cell not longer than first, the abdominal pubescence not subfuscous.
It is quite possible that the present species may eventually prove to be a northern, larger and darker race of the Californian exigua, hut it is desirable to distinguish it, whether as a species or as a race.
It is to be remarked that Provancher (Add.
Faun.
Hym., p. 330) records a male from Ottawa, attributed to 0. exigua.
I cannot think it likely that this identification is correct, but it is impossible to reach any definite conclusion, since Provancher's description appears to be simply a translation of Cresson's.
It may be that he had illinoensis before him.
The body-colors of both sexes of 0. fulgida (Colorado examples sent by Mr. Fox) agree with the colors of the corresponding sexes of kincaidii, but fulgida, while about as broad as kincaidii, is conspicuously longer, the abdomen being shaped more like that of viridimicans.
Osmia bella Cresson, 1878.
A $ specimen from Olympia, Wash., June 19, 1895 (T. Kincaid), must be referred to bella, but it represents a variety with darker wings, and the apical pubescence of the second ventral segment pale.
It is of a brilliant green color, and is conspicuously larger than the males of kincaidii.
The black pubescence on the apical portion of the abdomen is very evident.
The second submarginal cell is noticeably longer than the first on the cubital nervure.
Robertson's illinoensis must be very near to bella.
A Colorado bella from Cresson's series, lent by Mr. Fox, is somewhat smaller than the Olympia example, distinctly bluer, and the second submarginal cell is only about as long as the first on the cubital nervure.
Osmia calla n. sp.
$.
Length 8 to 9 mm., stoutly built, Aug ochloragreen.
This almost exactly resembles the Olympia form of bella, but is, perhaps, a very slightly yellower-green, while the dorsal pubescence of the abdomen is entirely white, and the second submarginal cell is not longer than the first on the cubital nervure.
The ocelli are a little further apart, and the teeth of the seventh abdominal segment seem to average longer.
The pubescence of the inner side of the basal joints of the tarsi is fuscous, not black.
Other distinguishing features of 0. calla are as follows : Pubescence throughout dull white, sometimes perceptibly tinged with ochraceous, nowhere mixed with black.
Antennae entirely black ; clypeus ordinary.
Punctures of mesothorax very close ; teg idee wholly green ; basal area of metathorax ill-defined, minutely roughened, not shining; wings smoky-hyaline, first recurrent nervure joining second submarginal cell at about the end of the basal third, second not far from the apex ; legs green, tarsi piceous; sixth abdominal segment notched feebly or quite distinctly, but never entire ; second ventral segment large, purplish, rather densely fringed at apex with pale ochraceoustinged pubescence.
Bab.— Olympia, Wash., 3 $, May 25th and June 17, 1894 (T. Kincaid).
This has much the characters of $ kincaidii, but is conspicuously larger and bulkier than the largest males of that species.
The antenna?
in kincaidii are longer in proportion to the size of the head.
While in color and length 0. calla agrees with $ fulgida from Colorado, calla is much broader than fulgida, so that the two have quite a different appearance.
The breadth of the abdomen in calla is 3 mm., in fulgida $ 2h Osmia bruneri n. sp.
9 .
Length 9 mm., brilliant blue-green, the clypeus, legs and margins of abdominal segments shining purple.
This may be only a race of cobaltina, from which it differs in being green instead of blue.
The pubescence and ventral scopa are black, but dirty white hairs are intermixed slightly on the vertex, quite conspicuously on the dorsum of thorax, and also on the first abdominal segment.
Compared with the Pasco cobaltina, the spurs of hind tibia?
are considerably largerand stouter, curved at the end, and the submarginal cells are both longer.
The wings are strongly infuscated, and the second submarginal cell is, perhaps, a little longer than the first on the cubital nervure.
From the Colorado 0. fulgida 1 and viridis, 0. bruneri will be known by the green tegulse, and the partly light pubescence of thorax.
It may possibly be the unknown female of 0. bella, but there is no way of determining whether this is the case at present.
Hub.
— Colorado Springs, Colo. (L. Bruner, no.
19).
Osmia inurbana Cresson, 1878.
$ .
7 to 11 mm.
long; dark brassy-green.
Sixth segment of abdomen distinctly notched,.
Pubescence rather copious, tinged with ochreous on dorsum.
37 examples, Olympia and Seattle, Wash. (T. Kincaid).
There is some variation, but they seem to be all one species ; the extremes of size are connected by intermediates.
The Seattle specimens were taken on April 17th and 18th, one in May ; eight are from Seattle, the rest from Olympia.
The Olympia dates run from April 20th to May 25th.
One was on Fragaria April 25th.
A Colorado inurbana, sent by Mr. Fox, is like our medium sized examples.
Osmia odontogaster n. sp.
$.
Length 9 to 10 mm.
; stoutly built, head of ordinary size, abdomen suboval ; dark brassy-green, metathorax bluer ; pubescence tolerably dense, ochraceous on head and thorax, very dense and cream color on clypeus, nowhere mixed with black, nigrofuscous on inner sides of basal joints of middle and hind tarsi, ochraceous on base and apex of abdomen, short and fuscous on second, third and fourth segments, and on the basal portion of fifth, varying to griseous ; third and following segments more or less distinctly fringed with pale or ochraceous hairs; punctuation of head and thorax strong but extremely dense, becoming sparser on middle of scutellum, which is thus a little shiny ; basal area of metathorax with its lateral inferior margins shining ; punctuation of abdomen less dense, ordinary, leaving the surface shining.
Face rather long and narrow ; antennre of only moderate length, flagellum dull rufous beneath ; clypeus ordinary ; mandibles with a large pointed terminal blade, and a broad rounded inner tooth ; tegula3 black, shining, punctured ; wings smoky-hyaline, a little darker on apical margin, no distinct cloud or streak in marginal cell ; second submarginal somewhat shorter than the first on cubital 1 A fulgida from Colorado, sent by Mr. Fox, has the thoracic pubescence pale brownish, probably faded.
It is, however, a much narrower and longer insect than bruneri, the abdomen being of the elongate parallel-sided type, whereas bruneri has it of the oval type.
nervure ; first recurrent nervure joining second submarginal cell nearly at the end of its basal third, second at the beginning of the apical fourth or a little beyond ; legs black, basal joint of hind tarsus broad, truncate at the end; sixth segment of abdomen with the margin entire, seventh emarginate ; second ventral segment with its hind margin fringed with long pale hairs, and presenting medially a large and prominent tooth, directed backward, shaped like the terminal joint of a finger, but having a longitudinal groove.
Hab.
— Olympia, Wash., 5 $ , May 10th and 25th, June 1st and 13, 1894 (T. Kincaid).
This might be taken for inurbana, but its abdominal characters at once distinguish it.
*e v Osmia nanula n. ap.
9 .
Length 7 to 8 mm.
; stoutly built, short, with the abdomen broad-oval.
Color of head, thorax and abdomen dark greenishblue ; legs, mandibles and antennee black.
Pubescence black, with ochraceous on sides of face, on occiput about tubercles, slightly on mesothorax, quite densely alorig hind border of scutellum, on sides of metathorax, on lateral hind borders of the first three abdominal segments, especially the first, thinly along whole hind borders of four and five, very sparsely on surface of sixth, and on first four tarsi behind.
The black hairs on the scutellum are considerably longer than the ochraceous ones, and are placed in front of them.
Ventral scopa all black.
Hairs on inner side of basal joint of hind tarsi dark fuscous.
Pubescence of clypeus black, sparse, its anterior margin and the mandibles with some orange-rufous hairs.
The ochraceous pubescence of the thorax, in fresh specimens, is quite bright, almost orange-rufous.
Punctuation ordinary, punctures of vertex and mesothorax large, very close, but not all confluent, the abdomen is quite shiny.
Head fairly but not excessively large, clypeus ordinary, mandibles tridentate ; tegulse shining black, with asubmetallic tinge in front: wings dusky, broad apical margin and upper half of marginal cell conspicuously darker : second submarginal cell noticeably shorter than first on cubital nervure ; first recurrent nervure reaching second submarginal cell just before the end of its proximal third, second very near its tip.
Hab.— Seattle, Wash., 4 9 , April 17th, May 11th and 19th (T. Kincaid) ; Olympia, Wash., 5 9 , May 23rd, June 1st, 19th and 30th (T. Kincaid).
A 9 taken by Mr. Kincaid at Olympia, Wash., differs by having a brassy-green abdomen ; it appears to be only a variety of this species.
I have not described the $ of 0. nanula, but I have before me a series of nine males, collected by Mr. Kincaid at Seattle and ■lyrnpia, which I believe belong here.
They average slightly smaller than the females, and are of a brassy-green color.
They ~ight readily be confused with small examples of inurbana, but the sixth abdominal segment is entire or very feebly notched.
The dor1 pubescence of the thorax and head is quite brightly colored, and not mixed with black.
The smaller size and the absence of the ventral tooth at once separate them from odontogaster.
Osmia tristella n. sp.
9 .
Length 7 to 8 mm., of ordinary build, the abdomen somewhat longer than in 0. nanula.
Head, thorax and abdomen dark indigo blue ; legs, mandibles and antenna?
black.
Head of ordinary size, not so large as in nanula.
Pubescence black, not dense, long on head and thorax, white just behind wings and at sides of first abdominal segment subbasally ; there is also some obscure white or whitish pile on the last dorsal segment of the abdomen.
The pubescence of the face, vertex, thoracic dorsum and ventral scopa is iv holly black.
The abdominal segments between the first and last are shining, and present some short pile, wholly black except for an occasional short pale hair.
The pubescence of the legs is all black.
Punctuation ordinary, very dense on vertex and mesothorax ; basal area of metathorax minutely roughened, not shining.
Clypeus ordinary ; tegula?
black.
Wings pale fuscous; second submarginal cell about as long as the first on the cubital nervure ; first recurrent nervure joining second submarginal cell at the end of its basal sixth, second at the beginning of its apical sixth.
Hab.
— Olympia, Wash., 2 9, one June 30th (T. Kincaid); Seattle, Wash., 4 9 , April 18th and May 11th (T. Kincaid).
This might be confused with nanula, but is easily separated by the characters italicized.
Osmia cyanella n. sp.
9 .
Length 9 mm., stoutly built, very broad, with a large subquadrate head.
The thorax is especially broad, the distance between the wings being much greater than in tristella or nanula.
The abdomen is suboval.
Color of head, thorax and abdomen dark indigo blue ; legs, antenna?
and mandibles black.
Pubescence, including PLATE IV.
FOX.
HYMENOPTERA OF BRAZIL.
PLATE V. KELLER.
PLANT MONSTROSITIES.
PLATE VI.
PILSBRY.
MOLLUSKS OF URUGUAY PLATE VII.
21.
23.
PILSBRY.
MOLLUSKS OF URUGUAY.
!
PLATE VIII.
IPf" •^ y ; V.'.
'T^P-" .vi'-T*:-'.-.
'"^-' "^ r .
:''^: ##&/*.
$>/ HEATH ON CRYPTOCHITON.
4 1 i ■*W * Jm ventral scopa, black, but there are some shining pale hairs along the hind margin of the scut ellum, and sparsely on the abdominal dorsum ; the extreme apex of the abdomen, the anterior edge of the clypeus, and the outer surface of the mandibles exhibit some orange pile ; the pubescence of the tarsi, especially the anterior ones, is also more or less of a pale orange tint.
The hairs of the face and vertex are wholly black, and the tuft just behind the icings is black.
Punctuation ordinary, not quite so dense as in some related species ; ocelli light yellowish, clypeus ordinary; tegulse shining black; wings smoky ; second submarginal cell perhaps a very little longer than first on cubital nervure ; first recurrent nervure reaching second submarginal cell slightly before the end of its basal third, second very near its end.
Hab.— Olympia, Wash., May 23, 1894 (T. Kincaid).
Resembles tristella, but easily known by the characters italicized.
Osmia trevoris n. sp.
9 .
Length 8 mm., stoutly built, head quite large, abdomen short and broad.
The thorax is by no means so broad as in cyanella.
Head, thorax, and abdomen very dark blue, the two latter a slightly greenish-blue, yet bluer than in nanula; legs, mandibles and antenna?
black.
Pubescence of head black, except some fulvous on occiput, hairs of face long, all black ; pubescence of pleura black, of thoracic dorsum moderately dense, and orange-fulvous, with a few dark hairs intermixed, not readily noticed ; tuft behind ivings orangefulvous; hairs of femora and tibiae short and black, or tarsi dull fulvous ; dorsal pubescence of the abdomen entirely black, except a thin, pale fulvous fringe along the hind margins of the segments, only noticed in certain lights; ventral scopa all black.
Punctuation ordinary, punctures of vertex and mesothorax close but separable.
Clypeus ordinary ; tegulse black ; wings dusky hyaline, with the broad outer margin and the upper part of the marginal cell conspicuously darker; second submarginal cell a little longer than first on cubital nervure; first recurrent nervure joining second submarginal cell at about the end of its basal third, second a very short distance before its tip.
Hab.— Seattle, Wash., May 19, 1896 (Trevor Kincaid).
This is closely related to 0. nanula, but it is somewhat broader, with a larger head, and lacks the pale pubescence at sides of face, while the pubescence of the thoracic dorsum is dense and much more highly colored ; the abdomen, also, is less globose.
0. trevoris re23 sembles a good deal in color and form 0. cerasi from New Mexico, but it is smaller than that; the thoracic pubescence is by no means so bright, and the dorsal abdominal pubescence of cerasi is entirelyblack, except on the first segment, where it is pale fulvous, usually mixed with black.
Osmia propinqua Cresson, 1864.
I have before me 8 females, sent by Mr. T. Kincaid ; two from Seattle, Wash., May 11 and 14, 1897, on Rubus ursinus; one from Comas I., Wash., June 18, 1896, collected by N. L. Gardner; five from Olympia, Wash., May 9 and 23, and June 1 and 2.
Osmia subornata n. sp.
9 .
Length 14 mm., stoutly built, rather shiny, pure black; head large, subquadrate, abdomen short and broad; pubescence of face and vertex entirely black, with sometimes a few pale hairs about the insertion of the antennas, of cheeks and pleura dark griseofuscous to almost black, of thoracic dorsum black on disc, with a pale band before and behind, the anterior band not very distinct, reaching from tubercle to tubercle, the posterior occupying the scutellum, and very distinct, but having black hairs intermixed.
The color of these hair-bands is very pale ochraceous.
A tuft of pale ochraceous hairs behind the wings.
Pubescence of legs entirely black, or a little fuscous on anterior basis.
Pubescence of abdominal dorsum black, some rather obscure pale hairs on sides of first segment, and the apex always noticeably clothed with appressed pale pubescence.
Ventral scopa entirely black.
Punctuation strong, but rather sparse for an Osmia.
Inner orbits carinate; clypeus produced and very broadly truncate ; mandibles very broad ; tegulae black ; tvings pale fuscous, second submarginal cell about as long as first on cubital nervure ; first recurrent nervure reaching second submarginal cell a little before the end of the basal third, second near the tip ; spurs of hind tibiae stout and curved at tips.
Hub.— Olympia, Wash., June 1, 2 and 12 (T. Kincaid).
This is a submelanic representative of 0. bucephala and 0. megacephala, having the same general structure and appearance.
There is, however, no blue or green tint, and the pubescence is more black, and the wings are quite dark.
The apical tooth of the mandibles is short.
Osmia pascoensis n. sp.
9.
Length about 15 mm., stoutly built; black, the abdomen with a perceptible blue tinge.
Head large, but not so large as thorax.
Pubescence of head entirely black, except a yellowishivhite fringe on occipital margin ; of thoracic dorsum cream-colored, with longer black hairs intermixed ; of sides of thorax black ; a creamcolored tuft on tubercles and one behind wings, but the hairs of sides of metathorax below that black.
Pubescence of legs black, shining fuscous on inner side of anterior tarsi.
Pubescence of first abdominal segment cream-color, not mixed with black, of the remaining segments black, scopa wholly black.
Tegulse black.
Wings dull hyaline, with the broad apical margin and the marginal cell conspicuously darkened.
Second submarginal cell a little longer than first on cubital nervure; first recurrent nervure joining second submarginal cell a little before the end of the basal third, second at the beginning of the apical sixth.
Punctuation strong and quite dense on head and thorax ; sparse on abdomen.
Anterior margin of clypeus truncate, crenulated or ribbed, the sides of the truncation sloping away, the angle at the corners a very obtuse one.
Apical tooth of mandibles very long, curved.
Spurs of hind tibice rather slender and straight.
Hab.—Fasco, Wash., May 25, 1896 (T. Kincaid).
Closely allied to several species.
From subor>uda it may be known by the somewhat larger size, the blue tint of the abdomen, the long apical tooth of mandibles, the straight and more slender spurs of hind tibiae, the absence of the black dorsal pubescence of the thorax, etc.
From bucephala and megacephala by the smaller head, entirely black pubescence of face, etc.
: from nigrifrons by the larger size.
It agrees very nearly with Cresson's description of nigrifrons, and may represent a northwestern subspecies of that insect.
Osmia grandior n. sp.
9 .
Leugth about 16 mm.
Closely resembles 0. pascoensis in all respects but the following : Head smaller; clypeus dull and roughened (in pascoensis shiny, with well sej:>arated punctures) ; apical tooth of mandibles shorter ; two conspicuous brushes of orange hair beneath the margin of the clypeus ; vertex with smaller and closer punctures ; vertex and whole of thoracic dorswn covered with pale fulvous hair, rather dense and not mixed with black ; brush of hairs behind wings black ; metathorax tinged with bluish ; pubescence of first abdominal segment black with pale hairs intermixed ; appressed pubescence of last segment fuscous ; pubescence of first four tarsi shining reddish fulvous; marginal cell and second submarginal shorter; abdomen somewhat longer.
The clypeus is quite ordinary, its margin straight.
Hab.— Olympia, Wash., May 10, 1894 (T. Kincaid).
This would be easily confused with pascoensis, if attention were not paid to the details italicized.
It is apparently the representative, in the northwest, of the Colorado juxta and longula.
The blue tint and the color of the thoracic pubescence at once separates it from subornata.
Osmia subpurpurea n. sp.
$ .
Length about 14 mm., relatively slender, dark steel blue, the legs, antennae and mandibles black.
Head subquadrate, rather large, at least as broad as the thorax.
Pubescence of face dull white with a slight yellow tinge, with numerous black hairs intermixed ; of cheeks pale ; of vertex long, thin and mostly black ; of thoracic dorsum white with a slightly yellowish tinge, with longer black hairs intermixed; of pleura sparse, dull white; of sides of metathorax copious, white; of legs short and black, with some dull white on femora behind, and dark fuscous on tarsi; of first abdominal segment dull white and quite abundant; of remaining segments very short, dark, hardly noticeable, except that the hind margins of segments 2 to 5 present each a thin and narrow, but very visible, white hair-band, and the short pile of the apical segment is pale.
Ventral scopa entirely black.
Punctuation of vertex strong, but not so close as to hide the shining surface ; of mesothorax very close, the surface appearing roughened, dull and dark ; of abdomen minute and sparse enough to leave a very shiny surface.
Basal area of metathorax dullish, with no high lights.
Cheeks nearly twice as broad as eyes; antennse short; clypeus ordinary, anterior margin straight; apical tooth of mandibles moderately long ; hind spur of hind tibia stout, and curved at tip ; outer end of middle tibia ending in an outwardly projecting spine ; the same with anterior tibia?
; tegulse black ; wings dusky ; second submarginal cell about as long (perhaps a little shorter) as first on cubital nervure ; first recurrent nervure joining second submarginal cell at about the end of its basal third, second nearly at its end.
Hab.— Olympia, Wash., May 25, 1894 (T. Kincaid).
Larger than 0. faceta, and differs by the formation of the clypeal margin, etc.
It is also allied to 0. purpurea, but differs in its much greater size and in the pubescence.
Osmia atrocyanea n. sp.
9 .
Length about 11 h mm., moderately robust, sides of abdomen subparallel, head fairly large.
Head, thorax and abdomen indigoblue, with a greenish tint on, the dorsum of thorax and parts of the abdomen ; legs, mandibles and antenna?
black.
Pubescence rather tbin, entirely black except a very few scattered pale hairs near the tubercles, on scutellum, and sides of metathorax, and rather more on first abdominal segment.
Ventral scopa entirely black.
Punctuation ordinary, punctures of raesothorax dense but not confluent, of abdomen rather close but leaving a shining surface ; median line of mesothorax distinct, basal area of metathorax moderately shiny ; antenna?
short ; clypeus ordinary, anterior margin entire ; apical tooth of mandibles very short ; tegulae black ; wings smoky, paler along the nervures ; second submarginal cell about as long as first on cubital nervure ; first recurrent nervure reaching second submarginal cell a little before the end of its basal third, second just after the beginning of its apical sixth.
Hab.
— Olympia, Wash., July 4, 1896 (T. Kincaid).
Seems near to 0. brevis, but differs in the color of the pubescence, larger size, etc.
Osniia brevis Cress.
An authentic Colo. $ specimen, sent by Mr. Fox, does not have the head as large as one would imagine from Cresson's description.
The pubescence of the pleura is brownish-black.
The abdomen is of a fine dark shining indigo-blue.
The second submarginal cell is longer than the first on the cubital nervure ; the first recurrent nervure joins the second submarginal cell somewhat before the end of its basal third, the second quite near its tip.
At Pasco, Wash., May 25, 1896, Mr. T. Kincaid took a couple of $ , agreeing with the Colorado insect, though having the second submarginal cell a little shorter.
At Olympia, Wash., June 24, July 7, etc., Mr. Kincaid has taken in numbers a species like brevis, but with a more convex, very shiny, dark prussian green abdomen ; I supposed it to be a different species, but leave it for the present with this allusion.
It is quite possibly the 9 of inurbana or odontogaster.
At Pasco, May 25, 1896, Mr. Kincaid also took a couple of males which it seems safe to refer to brevis, although the $ of that insect has not been described.
The abdomen is indigo-blue like the $ , but narrow and more shiny ; antennse wholly black, reaching about to scutellum ; pubescence of face, vertex and thoracic dorsum yellowish-white, rather copious ; of cheeks, pleura and sides of metathorax black ; wings quite hyaline, except a slight stain in the upper part of the marginal cell; dorsal pubescence of abdomen all black except on first segment; ventral pubescence black, a pale median patch just beyond apex of second segment; sixth dorsal segment entire.
This S is like 0. moniana from Pike's Peak, but is separated by the entire sixth segment of abdomen.
Osmia proxima Cresson.
This is considered to be the $ of atriventris ; it was described from Maine and British America.
At Olympia, Wash., June 24, 1895, Mr. T. Kincaid took a $ which is evidently conspecific with an authentic Canadian proxima sent by Mr. Fox.
This insect will be recognized by its small size, large head, short subglobose thorax and abdomen, and shining dark blue-green color.
The hind margins of the abdominal segments are inclined to be edged with testaceous — in the Olympia insect this is quite conspicuous.
The antennas are long, and the flagellum is more or less brownish or rufescent beneath.
The tegulse are greenish in front.
The wings are hyaline.
Sixth abdominal segment notched.
Osmia faceta Cresson.
9 .
One collected at Olympia, Wash., June 2, by Mr. T. Kincaid, agrees with an authentic Canadian example lent by Mr. Fox.
It is a little greener than that from Canada, but the specific characters are the same.
It is especially to be noted that while the ventral scopa is black, there is white hair on the extreme lateral margin of the abdomen, which may run along the margins of the dorsal segments a little way, forming rudimentary bands.
The mandibles have a conspicuous subapical band of orange-rufous hair.
Osmia densa Cresson.
I have before me an authentic 9 from Colorado, sent by Mr. Fox.
It is much like atrocyanea, but the pubescence of the sides of the metathorax and of the tubercles is all white, while it is black in atrocyanea.
In densa the pubescence of the pleura is scanty and white, in atrocyanea it is black.
0. atrocyanea has a larger thorax and a somewhat larger head than densa.
The following table separates a series of females having the general appearance of densa ; in all, the ventral scopa is black.
A. Pubescence of pleura, tubercles and sides of metathorax white.
a. Pubescence of clypeus and sides of abdomen white .
.
faceta, Cr.
b. Pubescence of clypeus black, sides of abdomen without conspicuous white pubescence, though there are some white hairs, densa, Cr.
(0. densa was taken at Olympia, Wash., by Mr. T. Kincaid, June 19.)
B. Pubescence of pleura black.
a. Pubescence of scutellum black, with a few pale hairs intermixed, of sides of rnetathorax black ; head strongly blue, atrocyanea, Ckll.
b. Pubescence of scutellum light, with, at most, a few dark hairs intermixed ; head less blue, clypeus black or almost so, nigrifrons, Cr.
(An authentic specimen from Colorado, sent me by Mr. Fox ; one from Colorado Springs, Colo., sent by Prof. L. Bruner; one from Olympia, Wash., May 25, sent by Mr. T.
Kincaid.)
Synhalonia edwardsii (Cresson, 1878).
This is evidently common at Olympia, Wash,, and is sent in numbers by Mr. T. Kincaid.
Cresson describes only the $ ; the 9 is from 14 to 16 mm.
long, and differs from that of S. frater by its mouse-colored thoracic pubescence and by the abdominal bands, which, though very Avhite, are reduced to two, on the third and fourth segments, that on the third interrupted in the middle.
The second segment has a small white patch on each extreme side.
A Seattle 9 has the thoracic pubescence ochraceous as m frater, but the abdominal characters remain quite distinct.
One Olympia 9 has an interrupted band on the second segment.
Within what must be considered the specific limits of S. edwardsii there are, in Washington State, two distinct types : — (a.)
Race latior.
$ .
Facial quadrangle not far from a square, sides of the clypeal yellow, gradually sloping above, distance between the yellow and the eyes quite considerable.
Olympia and Seattle.
(b.)
Race angustior.
$ .
Face conspicuously longer than broad.
Sides of clypeal yellow, above squarely notched, distance between the yellow and the eyes extremely small ; pubescence somewhat paler.
9 .
Smaller, with paler pubescence, abdomen with the white bands on the fourth and fifth (instead of third and fourth) segments, that on the fifth fuscous in the middle, but brilliant white at the sides, a white mark on each side of third, apical segment white at sides.
Wings clearer.
Pasco.
The exact data are as follows : — Race latior.
Olympia, 18 $ , April 24, May 2, 10, 11, 17, 21, 23, 25 ; June 5 ; 19 9, June 1, 5, 11, 18, 19, 21, 24, 25, 29, July 4.
Seattle, 3 $, April 17, May 3 ; 2 9 , both May 19 (T. Kincaid).
Two Olympian 9 s are from Lupinus.
Race angustior.
Pasco, 5 S , 2 9 , all taken May 25, 1896 (T. Kincaid).
Synhalonia lycii n. sp.
9 .
Length 13 to 14i mm.
; general form, size and structure of S. frater, which might be readily confused with it on superficial examination.
On comparing lycii with an Illinois example of frater received from Mr. Robertson, the following differences are at once apparent : — S. lycii 9 • Segments 2 and 3 of abdomen with light bands ; 4 and 5 sooty black, without light bands, or at most a very narrow apical gray band on 4 ; apex with black pubescence.
Ventral surface of abdomen Ventral surface of abdomen S. frater 9 .
Segments 2-5 of abdomen with distinct light bands ; apex with light brown pubescence.
with light pubescence.
Wings noticeably brownish.
with black pubescence.
Wings clear.
The above are conspicuous and constant distinctions : yet the head, thorax and legs of the two insects, with their pubescence, are virtually the same.
Hab.
— S. lycii occurs in the Mesilla Valley, New Mexico, near the Agricultural College ; on Lycium torreyi, on the College Farm, April 16 ; on flowers of plum, College Farm, April 9.
Miss Jessie Casad took one on lilac in Mesilla, April 14.
Calliopsis scitulus Cresson, 1878.
Santa Fe, N. M., July 7 (Ckll.
1,356) ; Sta.
Fe, July 25, on Cleome serrulata (Ckll.
3,747).
Also Colorado, collected by Prof. C. F. Baker (No.
l,595=Fort Collins, Aug. 8, 1895, and l,592=Fort Collins, Aug. 8, 1895, on Cleome).
In the specimens, Ckll.
1,356, the lateral marks of theclypeus are almost lacking; as also in Baker's 1,592, which has only two spots on the fifth abdominal segment.
I am not sure about the $ of C. scitulus; the above records all pertain to females.
At Sta.
Fe, on the same day as 1,356, I took a $ which resembled, but was not identical with, 0. pictipes Cresson.
Prof. Baker sends a $ taken at the same time and place as his 1,595 above, and it agrees sufficiently with Cresson's description of pictipes to be conspecific.
At all events, I think, one may say, that the $ of scitulus is either pictipes or closely similar to it.
A 9 from Colorado (Baker l,599=Fort Collins, Aug. 15, 1895, on Solidago canadensis) has the clypeus entirely black.
Calliopsis australior n. sp.
The 9 of this so greatly resembles scitulus in every respect that it was long held to be a variety of it, and 1 only now separate it on observing that the differential characters are constant.
The band on the third abdominal segment, usually entire in scitulus, is always interrupted, often quite widely ; the band on the fourth segment is usually entire, being the only entire band ; the fifth segment is black, with neither band nor spots; the lateral face-marks are always much broader and shorter than in scitulus ; the clypeus always has a pale stripe down the middle; otherwise the two insects are about the same.
It is to be remarked that australior partakes of the characters of the Californian C. edwardsii, which has the longitudinal clypeal mark but not the hiteral marks on the clypeus, which are common to australior and scitulus.
C. edwardsii is also a larger insect than scitulus, whereas australior is of the same size.
The 9 of australior I found in numbers visiting the flowers of Cleome serrulata at Albuquerque, N. M., Aug. 16 ; I also found it on the sand hills at Mesilla, N. M., May 29, numerously visiting the flowers of Dithyrea wislizeni Engelm.
It also comes from Colorado, collected by Prof. C. F. Baker (No.
l,592=Fort Collins, Aug. 8, 1895, on Cleome).
The Colorado form has the abdominal markings more yellow than that from New Mexico.
I am uncertain about the $ of australior, but Baker's 1,591 (Fort Collins, Aug. 8, 1895, on Solidago canadensis) may belong there.
It has the first joint of hind tarsus yellow, not greatly broadened, and with no conspicuous tuft of hairs at the tip.
The face is all white below the level of the antennse, except a couple of black dots on clypeus, and one at apex of each dog-ear mark.
The postscutellum and a transverse band on the scutellum are white.
I took a closely similar $ at El Paso, Texas, May 13, 1897, three specimens.
It has the face more narrowed below, and the abdominal markings more reduced than in the Colorado insect.
It was flying round Baccharis.
Calliopsis personatus n. sp.
9 .
Length 8 mm.
This also is a sort of modified scitulus, but the modification is in a different direction.
The most obvious character is that the face is entirely black, although there remains a white spot at the base of the mandibles.
The abdomen has a spot on each side of the first two segments, a broadly interrupted band on the third, and an almost continuous one on the fourth, these markings being white.
The fifth segment, as in australior, has neither band nor spots ; the apical pubescence is entirely white.
For the rest, the characters are practically as in sdtulus.
Hab.— Pasco, Wash., May 25, 1896 (T. Kincaid).
Calliopsis clypeatus Cresson, 1878.
Cresson had only a single $ .
Prof. C. F. Baker has taken both sexes in Colorado (No.
1,581, on Laramie River, Larimer Co., 8,500 ft., July 19, 1895).
The 9 is like the $ , except that the face is wholly dark : the antenna?
shorter, with the flagellum, after the third joint, dull ferruginous beneath ; the abdomen broader, the apical portion with white pubescence, and the extreme apex with a broad, dense, ochreous brush.
Calliopsis boylei Ckll., 1896.
This is not rare at Santa Fe, New Mexico.
It is also found in Colorado, a specimen before me was collected by Prof. C. F. Baker (No.
1,600).
The Colorado form has a yellow line on the scape, and a study of it leads me to believe that C. boylei is probably only a variety of C. ornatipes (Cress., 1872).
In the typical boylei from Sta.
Fe, the scape is entirely black.
Calliopsis coloradensis Cress., 1878.
Santa Fe, N. M., on flowers of Grindelia squarrosa, Aug. 1 (Ckll.
4,029) ; and in Mr. Boyle's garden, Aug. 10 (Ckll.
4,397).
The face-marks are slightly tinged with pinkish, and the lateral marks do not go up so far as would seem to have been the case in Cresson's type ; yet the identity is evident.
The specimens are females.
Calliopsis andreniformis Smith, 1853, subsp.
rh.odopb.ilus n. subsp.
$ .
The legs, instead of being entirely yellow, have the femora with the basal two-thirds nearly all black, and all the tibia?
with a black patch behind ; sometimes the four hind tibiae have a dark shade in front ; the scape is entirely black, or may have a narrow yellow line in front; the yellow is paler throughout; the thoracic pubescence is more scanty and grayish-white rather than ochraceous ; otherwise there is little or no difference.
9 .
The face-marks are cream-color ; no rudiments of dog-ear marks .
wings clearer.
This subspecies is more distinct in the <?
than 9 .
Hab.— Santa Fe, N. M. ; females; July 27, 1895, at flowers of Sphceralcea angustifolia ; Aug. 5, Aug. 14, Aug. 14, July 25 on Sphceralcea angustifolia ; Aug. 19, 1894.
Males: Aug., 1894; July 27, at flowers of Sphceralcea angustifolia; Aug. 5, July 30, burrowing in damp soil, I saw it enter, and dug it out from end of burrow.
Andrena kincaidii n. sp.
9 14 mm.
long, black ; head and thorax with short, dense, ochraceous pubescence; abdominal segments 2 to 4 with more or less broadly interrupted apical bands of pale ochraceous pubescence ; apex densely fringed with orange-rufous pubescence.
Femora black, tibice and tarsi wholly ferruginous.
Process of labrum truncate, subemarginate.
Clypeus with rather large, not very dense punctures, and a median smooth longitudinal ridge or line.
Mesothorax and scutellum distinctly but not very densely punctured, the punctures unevenly distributed ; basal area of metathorax rugose, ill-defined ; abdomen distinctly and quite closely, though not deeply, punctured.
Antenna?
wholly black.
Tegula?
rather dark testaceous.
Wings strongly tinged with yellowish-ferruginous, the apical portion grayish, and the apex conspicuously blackish; nervures and stigma ferruginous.
Mandibles notched at end.
$.
About 11 mm.
long, more slender, pubescence paler, sometimes becoming whitish, no bands on abdomen ; clypeus lemon-yelloiv ivith hvo black spots ; antenna?
wholly dark ; tibia?
and tarsi all ferruginous as in the 9 • Hind-margins of abdominal segments becoming testaceous.
Hab.
— Olympia, "Wash., very numerous specimens of both sexes sent by Mr. Kincaid.
The dates for the females run from May 9 to June 29, for the males from May 25 to June 12.
It is a very distinct species, at once known by the characters italicized.
Rarely the 9 exhibits a yellow spot on the clypeus, in the median line not far from the anterior margin.
Andrena saliciflaris n. sp.
9 • About 11 mm.
long, black, the pubescence brownish-ochraceous.
Head ordinary, face broad, facial quadrangle broader than long, pubescence of face fairly abundant ; clypeus shining, but strongly and rather closely punctured, with a rather strawberry-like surface ; basal process of labrum rounded ; antenna?
black ; vertex with close shallow punctures, the surface minutely roughened ; mesothorax dull, with tolerably close strong and very large punctures, median and parapoidal grooves distinct ; scutellum with large punctures, becoming smaller and very dense on its hindmost portion ; enclosure of metathorax ill-defined, irregularly longitudinally wrinkled ; pleura strongly and closely punctured ; tegular piceous ; wings smoky-hyaline ; nervures and stigma very dark brown or piceous ; legs with brownish-ochraceous pubescence ; basal joints of middle and hind tarsi rather broad ; abdomen strongly punctured, rather shiny, practically naked, except for some thin pubescence at base of first segment, lateral grayish-white patches on hind margins of segments 2 to 4-. representing very broadly interrupted bands, and dense reddishorange pubescence at the apex.
Venter with three thin hair bauds.
$.
Length 9 mm.
; pubescence more abundant and rufous throughout, of quite a bright tint.
Face an antenna?
wholly dark ; band on fourth segment of abdomen entire, but very thin in the middle, and, like the other abdominal markings, orange-rufous.
Abdomen not so closely or deeply punctured.
Hab.— Olympia, Wash. (T. Kincaid).
The ?
May 9th ; the $ April 4th, at willow blossom.
In some respects this resembles A. pruni Rob., but it is quite distinct.
Ceratma nanula n. sp.
S .
Length 4£ mm., shining, very dark bluish-green, brassy-green on the mesothorax.
Legs concolorous except the tarsi, which are dark brownish, the small joints of anterior tarsi dull ferruginous.
Antenna?
very dark brown ; tegula?
brown.
Wings hyaline, nervures piceous.
Tubercles, median third of labrum (but none of mandibles) and clypeal mark cream color ; the last is inversely T-shaped, the upright portion very broad, and longer than the arms.
Punctuation ordinary, but the punctures of front and mesothorax large and sparse, leaving shining impunctured areas in the middle of the mesothorax and above the antennce.
Abdomen ending in a short point.
Hind femora produced beneath to an angle slightly greater than a right angle.
Hab.
— At flowers of Sphceralcea angustifolia, Las Cruces, New Mexico, April 25th.
Ceratina submaritima n. sp.
$ .
Length about or nearly 6 mm.
; differing from nanula in its larger size, longer antenna?
(wholly black, or dull ferruginous beneath) ; the tubercles dark ; the clypeal mark with the upright portion short, much shorter than the long lateral portions ; the tegula?
black ; the wings somewhat dusky ; the hind femora more produced below, the angle resulting less than a right angle.
Hab.
— Olympia, Wash., May 10th ; also April 25th, at Fragaria (T. Kincaid).
I have also before me a couple from Seattle, Wash., May 13th, from Mr. Dunning, marked " Lot 214."
The two species described above differ at once from dupla and tejonensis in the $ , by having the abdomen terminated by a point ; the last ventral segment in both tejonensis and dupla is broadly rounded at the end.
At one time I thought nanula might be C. strenua Smith, but that cannot be, as Smith expressly states of strenua, " seventh segment rounded at the apex."
As regards the females, the distinctions are not so obvious.
I have what I suppose to be females of nanula from Juarez, Las Cruces and Santa Fe, New Mexico; but except in being smoother and more shining (like the $ ) they do not appreciably differ from dupla, and it may well be that some of the larger examples (81 mm.
long, Sta.
Fe, July) belong really to dupla, though of this I cannot be sure until $ dupla has been caught at Sta.
Fe.
The 9 of C. submaritina, which Mr. Kincaid took in some numbers at Olympia, Wash., differs at once from the supposed 9 of nanula in having the clypeus entirely dark, or at most with a very small and obscure spot.
C. acantha Prov., from Los Angeles, Calif., is described only from the 9 ; it is too small for submarithna, its clypeus is said to have a median testaceous line.
Perdita sidae n. sp.
$ .
Length 4t to 5$ mm.
Head and thorax very dark metallic blue, obscurer and more inclined to greenish on mesothorax and scutellum, shining ; the white pubescence moderately abundant.
Head large, subquadrate, broader than thorax, and considerably broader than long ; cheeks unarmed, but occasionally produced below into a prominent angle or incipient tooth.
Clypeus broad and low, of the Panama-hat type ; mandibles, except their dark tips, labrum, and face up to the level of antenna?
light yellow; supi'aclypeal yellow area broader than long ; upper limit of the yellow immediately lateral to the an tenure not as high as the top of the supraclypeal mark, but only reaching to the lower level of the antennal sockets, but rising as it approaches the orbit, to end at an angle of about 45° slightly above the upper level of the antennal socket.
Antennoz wholly deep orange ; ocelli in a curve.
Front above level of antenna?
with tolerably sparse but very distinct punctures; vertex shining, microscopically sculptured with very sparse punctures.
Mesothorax sparsely punctured ; tubercles, aud hind border of prothorax, more or less pale dull yellowish ; sometimes this is hardly noticeable.
Tegulae hyaline with a blackish spot ; wings hyaline, stigma and nervnres white; stigma loug and wellformed, marginal cell with its post-stigmatal portion longest, squarely truncate at end, with a very fine appendicular nervure.
Secoud submarginal high, narrowed rather more than half to marginal; third discoidal distinct.
Anterior tibioz and tarsi wholly lemon-yellow, anterior femora yellow suffused with brown ; middle tarsi whitish ; middle and hind femora and tibia?, and hind tarsi, piceous ; the middle femora in front, and the middle and hind knees, dull yellowish or whitish ; middle femora angled below.
Abdomen pale brown, the hind margins of the segments hyaline, the venter dull brownish-orange.
9 .
Same size and form.
Face wholly dark, except that the upper edge of the clypeus is dull whitish, this coloration very inconspicuous.
Head not so large, transversely oval ; antennae shorter.
Scape black, flagellum dull broivnish-orange, infuscated at the base.
Legs piceous, anterior tibiae and tarsi obscurely dull yellow in front.
Abdomen piceous above and below, without markings.
Hab.
— Mesilla, New Mexico, June 7th and 9, 1897, on flowers of Sida hederacea.
They fly actively about the flowers, and in dull weather I found the males at rest in the flowers.
Six males were taken, but only one 9 • P. sidaz S runs in my table of Perdita (Proc.
Phila.
Acad., 1896) to the neighborhood of P. semicrocea, but it cannot be confused with anything described, if attention is paid to the characters italicized above.
The 9 is equally distinct.
In the shape of the head, and the sexual difference in the color of the abdomen, P. sidaz recalls P. latior, but the marginal cell is entirely different.
On June 7th, I took a single 9 of P. latior in a flower of Sida hederacea in Mesilla ; it had probably wandered from an adjacent Sphozralcea, as renewed search discovered no more of them.
Perdita callicerata Ckll.
9.
Larger than the S, length about 5} mm., clypeus entirely cream color, with the usual two black specks; lateral face-marks transversely subreniforin, white, extending about as high as level of top of clypeus ; antennae as in $ ; mesothorax darker and bluer ; legs virtually as in $ ; lateral light marks of abdomen larger and squarer.
Hab.
— Mesilla Valley, close to the Agricultural College, on flowers of Baileya multiradiata, May 21, 1897, both sexes taken.
The $ I have described previously ; the species is quite remarkable for having more light color on the face in the 9 than in the $ .
The 9 of callicerata closely resembles the $ of albovittata, but differs at once by the color of the antennae, the yellow anterior tibia?, etc.
; the face-marks of the two are almost exactly alike.
Perdita larrese Ckll.
var.
modesta, n. var.
$ .
Like the type, but head not nearly so large, being only about as big as the thorax.
Hab.
— Mesilla Valley, close to the Agricultural College, May 21, 1897, two at Larrea.
Centris morsei n. sp.
$.
Length 21 mm., stoutly built, black, with pale ochraceous pubescence, very dense on thorax.
Clypeus bright lemon-yellow, with anterior margin rufous ; labrum yellow ; mandibles dark rufous with black tips ; scape without any yellow ; eyes sage-green, suffused with crimson at the extreme base ; facial quadrangle longer than broad, but of the broad type; wings dusky hyaline; tegulse cream-color ; first abdominal segment with abundant pale pubescence ; remaining dorsal segments uniformly and completely delicately pruinose-pubescent, producing a grayish appearance; apical margins of segments colorless or rather whitish-hyaline, extreme base of third segment, and of second segment at sides ferruginous, this ferruginous portion being overlapped by the white margin of the segment before.
Venter with dense yellowish-white hairs ; apex with pale shining hairs, genitalia ferruginous.
Compared with the $ of C. cazsalpinice, which it most resembles, C. morsei is considerably larger, the thoracic pubescence inclines more to mouse color, and the pruinose-pubescent abdomen with its two more or less defined reddish bands is very different.
In morsei the hind tarsi have a black brush on the inner side, but the abundant long pubescence is all ochraceous, not at all fuscous or blackish.
The long hairs of the anterior tarsi are blackish, though shining, and appearing golden in certain lights.
Hab.
— Mesilla, New Mexico, bed of the Rio Grande, June 28, 1897.
Taken by Mr. A. P. Morse.
356 proceedings of the academy of [1897.
October 5.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Thirty persons present.
A paper entitled "Volcanic Rocks of Mesozoic Age in Pennsylvania," by Edward Goldsmith, was presented for publication.
October 12.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Nineteen persons present.
October 19.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — " A Revision of the Genus Synidotea," by James E. Benedict. "
Reptiles from Sonora, Sinaloa and Jalisco, Mexico, with description of a new species of Sceloporus," by John Van Denburgh.
"Contributions to the Herpetology of San Paolo, Brazil, I," by Dr. H. Von Jhering. "
Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymenoptera of Brazil, No.
3.
— Sphegidffi (sens, lat.
)," by William J.
Fox.
The death of William B. Bement, a member, was announced.
October 26.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown in the Chair.
Forty-six persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — " Geological Section from Moscow to Siberia and Return," by Dr. Persifor Frazer. "
Scaphopoda of the San Domingo Tertiary," by H. A. Pilsbry and Benjamin Sharp, M. D. Mr. Daniel Baugh was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed : — NEW ACHATINID.E AND HELICIDiE FROM SOMALILAND.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The following descriptions are based upon material collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith.
Other mollusks presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by the same intreped explorer belong to species already known.
They represent so small a fragment of the fauna of this interesting part of Africa that their enumeration here may be dispensed with.
Achatina chrysoleuca n. sp.
Shell ovate, with conic spire, in general contour like A. variegata.
Solid and strong, though not very thick.
White, with a thin goldenbrown cuticle, which is deciduous over the greater part of the shell, remaining behind the aperture and in the depressions between longitudinal plications elsewhere; later 1=] whorls immaculate, the next earlier with spaced, somewhat zig-zag and rather broad brown streaks, the next earlier narrowly streaked, the streaks straight.
Whorls of the spire soiled white.
Whorls 62 (the apical whorls truncated, perhaps 1 or I2 whorls being thereby lost), moderately convex, the last quite convex.
Surface shining, finely decussated on the spire, the sculpture hardly visible to the naked eye, and gradually becoming obsolete, the spirals lost on the latter 1£ whorls, which are somewhat coarsely plicatulate.
Sutures even above, weakly and irregularly serrate below.
Aperture a little exceeding half the length of the shell, pure white within, subvertical, acuminate above, deeply excised by the body-wall ; outer lip rather regularly arcuate, but less curved above, simple ; columella short, cylindric, very deeply concave on the front and the side toward aperture, abruptly truncated at base, delicate flesh-tinted ; parietal wall with a thin, transparent varnish.
Alt.
105, diam.
58 mm.
Longest axis of aperture 60, greatest width of cavity 33 mm.
Tulu Didirko, in about lat.
4° 4' N., Ion.
39° 36' E., at 3,580 ft. alt.
(Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, March 27, 1895).
Type is No.
68,113, coll.
A. N. S. P. It is an ivory-white shell, with some inconspicuous marking on the spire.
The cuticle is largely deciduous.
Nothing very nearly allied seems to be described from this portion of the continent.
24 Limicolaria Donaldsoni n. sp.
Shell narrowly perforate, oblong-ovate, rather thin.
Spire terminating in a very obtuse rounded apex.
Whorls slightly over 6, quite convex, separated by deep sutures.
Surface shining, finely striated longitudinally, the stria?
cut into oblong granules by decussating spiral impressed lines, which become subobsolete on the last whorl except below the suture where they persist, although weaker.
Aperture ovate, a little less than half the length of the shell, bluishwhite within ; outer lip thin and sharp ; columella straight in the middle and above, slightly concave below, the columellar lip reflexed over the umbilicus.
Color white under a very thin yellow cuticle, with faint narrow, sinuous and interrupted brown streaks.
Alt.
39, diam.
20£ mm.
; alt.
of aperture 17, width of cavity in the middle 10 mm.
The Haud (Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, July 25, 1894).
Type is No.
68,114, coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Of described species, L. Beccarii Morel, seems to be nearest to this one ; but that has the spire longer and less obtuse at apex, a stronger color-pattern, etc.
L. Donaldsoni is remarkable for the unusual convexity of the whorls.
None of the very numerous species described during the last few years seem near to this form.
Limicolaria Vanattai n. sj>.
Shell very narrowly perforate, oblong-conic, compact, thin, white under a thin yellow cuticle, variegated with many longitudinal, almost straight, streaks of rich chestnut, rather close and narrow, but with a few broad ones among them, the latter often wedgeshaped, wider below ; the streaks neither branching nor zig-zag.
On the last whorl the longitudinal markings are to a great extent coalescent or smeared together below the periphery, the darker color predominating on the base.
Sculpture : close and fine costuhe cut into oblong granules by spiral impressed lines ; the decussation fine and regular on the spire; but below, the spirals become less regular and disappear on the latter part of the body whorl and are wanting on the base, and the costulse on the last whorl are coarser.
Spire rather thick, conic, the apex very obtuse, rounded ; suture moderately impressed, margined below by a light line.
Whorls 7 2, slightly convex, the last slightly attenuated below.
Aperture narrowly ovate, livid within, its height contained 2k times in alt.
of shell; acuminate above.
Columella cylindric, of a purple-flesh color, distinctly convex in the middle, bending toward the left as it approaches the base ; the reflexed edge adnate nearly to base, where it is free, leaving a small umbilical perforation.
Length 56, diam.
26 ; alt.
of aperture 25 mm.
Sheikh Husein, lat.
7° 43' 32" N., Ion.
40° 44' 30" E., (Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, Sept. 21, 1894).
Somewhat like L. turris Pfr., but the columella is distinctly convex instead of gently concave, and the apex is decidedly more obtuse.
It is also a smaller, less conic shell.
The spire is longer than in L. Ruppelliana Pfr.
as figured by Jickeli.
The narrow, straight, not branching, color streaks are also characteristic.
It is dedicated to Mr. E. G. Vanatta.
who kindly assisted me in examining the literature of Achatinidce for the species herein described.
Helicella (Lejeania) chionobasis n. sp.
Shell very narrowly umbilicate, thick lens-shaped, low-conoid above, flattened-convex beneath ; the periphery angular at first, becoming rounded ; rather thin but moderately solid, and slightly shining.
Conspicuously bicolored, the base being opaque 'white as in Xerophiles generally, the top rust-brown with numerous irregular, arcuate whitish streaks, the apex and several earlier whorls glossyblack.
Sculpture of irregular, low wrinkles of growth, with extremely fine arcuate striae also above ; on the base eery minute incised circular strioz are visible under the lens in addition to the wrinkles.
Whorls nearly 6£, slowly increasing, slightly convex, a distinctly defined whitish cord margining the sutures above, produced by the keel of the whorls.
Aperture mainly basal, lunate, moderately oblique, bicolored within ; peristome simple, suddenly dilated at the columellar insertion, partly covering the narrow umbilicus.
Alt.
13, greatest diameter 19'5, least 18 mm.
The Haud (Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, July 25, 1894).
The italicized clauses in the above description sufficiently indicate the more conspicuous features of this form, which is apparently different from any member of the group Lejeania known to me.
The permanence of the name Helicella for the group of Xerophiles depends upon the date of publication of Ferussac's Prodrome, which is still in doubt.
It may prove later than Jacosta of Gray, which would then assume the generic role.
This is a mere question of names, however.
The limits and characters of the group I have been able to define with considerable exactness, thanks to the previous work of Schmidt, Moquin-Tandon, von Ihering and others.
NEW AUSTRALIAN MOLLUSKS.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The forms described below occurred in a recent sending received from Dr. J. C. Cox, consisting mainly of marine mollusks he had collected at Eden, on the coast of New South Wales, a catalogue of which will probably be published by him elsewhere.
In the present scattered condition of the literature of Australian mollusks, only omniscience can always escape the danger of overlooking some description ; but reasonable care is believed to have been taken in dealing with the following.
Genus TATEA Tenison-Wpods.
The relationships of Tatea seem to require examination.
In the Manuals of Fischer and Tryon it is placed under Jeffreysia as a subgenus ; but it differs radically from this group in dentition and operculum, and is also unlike it in shell characters.
The Rissoina group is that to which Tatea seems allied by its operculum ; and Eatoniella Dall, with species in Kerguelen Island, South Georgia and New Zealand, would apparently be the most nearly allied genus, if judged by conchologic features only.
Eatoniella 1 has an ovate, oneor few-whorled operculum with the nucleus near the columellar margin, a process arising therefrom directed toward that margin.
The shell has 4J-6 convex whorls, is thin, the peristome somewhat reflexed at the columellar margin, and neither contracted nor indistinctly varixed as it is in Tatea.
The species are all quite small, the largest known being but 3 mm.
long.
The dentition as described and figured by Schako in the paper of Martens and Pfeffer cited above, has some peculiar features.
The rachidian tooth is practically as in Rissoa, apparently with a basal denticle on each side situated low as in Rissoa, although Schako does not make this clear.
The lateral is as usual in the group.
The inner uncinus has as few or feiver denticles than the lateral, and they are quite large.
According to Schako's figures and x See E. A. Smith, Philos.
Trans., Vol.
168, p. 174, and Martens and Pfeffer, Jahrb.
Ilarab.
Wiss.
Anstalten, 111, p. 9-4, 1886. the text on p. 94, there are three denticles on this tooth, but the description on p. 96 gives five denticles.
The outer uncinus has seven denticles.
The denticle formula of what Martens and PfefFer identify as Eatoniella kerguelenensis is, therefore, _ 7 , 5, 3 (?
), 7.
1-1 (?)
In Dardania Hutton, 2 which, so far as shell, operculum and radula go, is identical with Eatoniella, the dentition as figured by Hutton agrees in essentials with that genus.
Hutton's figure is rather diagrammatic.
It shows no basal denticles, the formula being 5 t 0-0 6, 3, 5 (?).
This seems to agree essentially with Eatoniella, especially in the important and unusual character of the inner marginal tooth, the cusp of which is remarkable for the small number and large size of its denticles.
The omission of basal denticles may be an oversight.
The inclusion of Dardania in Eatoniella seems from the data at hand to be necessary.
Now, in Tatea, the radula (PI.
IX, fig.
8) is unequivocally Hydrobioid.
Judging from it alone, if one were to ignore the shell and operculum, it would be pronounced a Potamojiyrgus.
It differs in very important particulars from that of Eatoniella.
The rachidian tooth shows several well marked basal denticles inserted well above the basal margin of the tooth, as in the freshwater genera.
The lateral is as usual above, and has the tongue-like process below, noticed in many non-marine forms.
The inner uncinus has the scythe-like form usual in Hydrobia and its allies, with 15 to 20 minute denticles on the long cusp.
The outer uncinus has still finer denticulation.
It will be seen that both the median and the inner marginal teeth are quite different from the corresponding teeth of Eatoniella, and altogether like those of Potamopyrgus and its allies.
From these characters we would advocate the removal of Tatea from the subfamily Rissoinino3, and install it in the Amnicolidm (Hydrobiidce of Fischer), notwithstanding its aberrant operculum.
The union of Tatea with Eatoniella, which some authors have accepted, is altogether inadmissable ; and the genus, which is dedicated to one of the most able of Australian zoologists, will stand as one of the most isolated in its family.
The figure represents the teeth of T. huonensis ; those of T. paradisiaca are very similar.
I have not examined the radula of T. rufilabris.
2 Trans, and Proc.
N. Z.
Institute, xiv, p. 147, pi.
1, f. K, 1-4, (1882) Tatea paradisiaca n. sp.
PI.
IX, figs.
10, 11.
Shell narrowly pyramidal, the lateral outlines of the spire slightly concave above, apex obtuse.
Whorls about 7§ ; the nucleus minute, the first whorl globose and relatively large, following whorls but slightly convex, separated by linear sutures, the last whorl either bluntly angular or rounded at the periphery, swelling in a low varix behind the peristome, theu contracting, rather abruptly falling or deflexed for a short distance in front.
Surface shining, showing excessively faint, fine spiral stria?
in certain lights.
Color, rich reddish-chestnut, becoming a little paler on the spire, and with the peristome of a decidedly darker shade.
Aperture ovate, rounded above, vertical ; peristome obtuse and thick, continuous.
Umbilicus hardly perforated.
Alt.
4'8, diam.
2 5 mm.
; alt.
of aperture 1*5 mm.
Eden, New South Wales, Australia, in a brackish swamp (Dr. J. C. Cox, 1897).
This species differs from T. rufilabris (A.
Ad.
3 ) and T. huonensis (Tenison-Woods 4 ) in being much broader in proportion to its heighth, of a darker color, and with strongly developed lip varix.
The appearance of marginatum below the sutures, produced by transparence, is more conspicuous in rufilabris and huonensis than in our new species, and both of the former have the spire more attenuated above.
The species of Tatea may be tabulated as follows : a.
Shell slender, the diameter less than one-half the height, b. Peristome very thick and heavy ; a keel defining the base, T. rufilabris A.
Ad.
(pi.
ix, fig.
7).
b'.
Peristome rather thin throughout ; peripheral keel weak or wanting ; no varix behind the lip, T. huonensis T.-W. (pi.
ix, fig.
12).
a'.
Shell stouter, the diameter over half the height ; peristome thick ; a low varix behind the lip, T. paradisiaca Pils.
(pi.
ix, figs.
10, 11).
3 Diala rufilabris A.
Ad., Ann.
and Mag., Nat, Hist.
(3), x, p. 298, 1862.
Type locality, Port Lincoln.
See also Smith, P. Z. S., 1875, p. 538, where it is referred to Hydrobia, and Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond., XVI, p. 268, pi.
7, f. 19 (as Tatea).
4 By thirria huonensis Tenison-Woods, Proc.
Roy.
Soc.
Tasmania for 1875, p. 77; also for 1878, p. 71, and 1879, p. 72 (Tatea).
Type locality, Huon River, Tasmania.
See also Petterd, Proc.
Roy.
Soc.
Tasm.
for 1888, p. 78, pi.
2, f. 1 (as Tatea rufilabris).
T. rufilabris and T. huonensis have been united by Mr. Smith, and the union has been accepted by Australian and Tasmanian writers.
The differences mentioned above seem constant in the rather small series of each before me; so that I would suggest a renewed comparison of Australian and Tasmanian specimens by someone having abundant material, in order that Mr. Smith's decision may be confirmed or reversed.
The series before me is hardly ample enough to justify an opinion adverse to that of so fair minded an investigator as my honored confrere of the British Museum, but is still sufficient to raise a doubt.
Genus ADEORBIS Wood.
Adeorbis sigaretinus n. sp.
PI.
IX, figs.
4, 5, 6.
Shell much depressed, shaped somewhat like the flat Sigaretus species, upper surface slightly convex, base broadly and deeply umbilicated ; thin, white.
Whorls 4?, the first minute, brownish, elevated, the others convex, rapidly widening, the last very wide, rounded at the periphery and base, as well as on the umbilical margin.
Sculpture, close and fine wrinkles of growth, somewhat irregular, and fine, crowded, thread-like spiral strise.
Aperture large, very oblique, subcircular, only slightly excised by the parietal margin ; peristome thin and simple.
Alt.
2, greater diam.
4 8, lesser 3*8 mm., or slightly larger, diam.
5 5 mm.
Rockhampton, Australia (Dr. J. C. Cox).
A. sigaretinus differs from A. striatellus from New Caledonia in the larger size, wider last whorl, open umbilicus without a bordering keel, and different ornamentation ; Montrouzier's species being distinctly punctured along the strise in the specimens before me, as stated in the original description.
The absence of a constricting, delicate umbilical keel is a very obvious point of difference.
Genus CORBULA Bruguiere.
Corbula Coxi n. sp.
PI.
IX, figs.
1, 2, 3.
Shell solid, strong and quite inequivalve, inequilateral, very ventricose, the diameter nearly or quite equal to the height ; in fully mature individuals, oblong, the beaks nearly central, anterior end rounded, posterior end narrower, very obliquely truncated, much narrowed below and projecting in a short truncate rostrum ; basal margin moderately arcuate.
Surface dull, whitish, with remnants of a thin yellowish cuticle at the ends.
Right valve somewhat larger, projecting beyond and closely overlapping the left along the whole basal margin.
Both valves have the posterior area defined by a keel.
Sculpture rather fine, irregular wrinkles parallel to growth lines, becoming coarser below, and obsolete toward the beaks, where numerous spaced radial cannula;, linear and very delicate may be seen under the lens.
Interior white, the right valve with a high, triangular, recurved tooth fitting into a corresponding deep process in the other valve.
Length 18"5, height 11, diam.
11 mm.
Length 17*5, height 11, diam.
9.3 mm.
Sydney Head (John Brazier), and Eden, Twofold Bay, New South Wales (Dr. J. C. Cox).
This species is probably the C. nasuta of Angas' lists of Australian mollusks, but it is not, in my opinion, the C. nasuta of Sowerby, 5 described from Xipixapi, west coast of Colombia.
The latter is smaller, adults before me measuring 7*5 to 10 mm.
long, and the beaks are somewhat different.
In C. nasuta, as Reeve's figure shows, the larger valve projects above beyond the smaller, while in C. Coxi the two are nearly equal above.
In C. nasuta the concentric ribs are more prominent on the anterior end than in C. Coxi.
The posterior rostration is decidedly longer in C. nasuta.
Sowerby's types measured : long 0*7, lat.
# 35, alt.
4 inch.
These differences indicate specific distinction ; the very widely separated habitats of the two forms also pointing in this direction.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE IX.
Figs.
1, 2, 3.
Corbula Coxi.
Lateral, ventral and posterior views.
Figs.
4, 5, 6.
Adeorbis sigaretinus.
Anterior, ventral and dorsal views of the shell.
Fig.
7.
Tatea rufilabris.
Front view of shell.
Fig.
8.
Tatea huonensis.
Dentition.
Fig.
9.
Tatea huonensis.
Operculum, from within.
Figs.
10.
11.
Tatea paradisiaca.
Front views of two specimens.
Fig.
12.
Tatea huonensis.
Front view of shell.
All figures variously enlarged, reproduced from camera lucida drawings.
5 Proc Zool.
Soc.
Lond., 1833, p. 35; Reeve, Conch.
Icon., Vol.
II, pi.
1, fig1.
1897.]
365
