DR. ALLEN'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY.
BY DANIEL G. BRINTON M. D. The field of science strictly socalled which Dr. Allen cultivated was that of anatomy and primarily human anatomy.
He understood this science however in a very different sense from that in which it is usually presented in medical schools.
He was not at all in sympathy with the programme which reduces anatomy to the position of a. handmaid to clinical surgery.
Such a method he considered not only unworthy the true relations of anatomical study but ultimately an injury to practical medicine itself because etiology is the only sure guide to rational practice and etiology means nothing so much as the investigation of progressive tissuechange in other words histological and gross anatomy.
It was in this spirit that he applied his profound and minute knowledge of human and comparative anatomy to medical and surgical questions and with the same broad grasp he attacked the problemsof somatology or anthropologic anatomy.
His contributions to this latter branch it will be my effort to sketch.
Its special aim is to set forth clearly and to estimate justly the anatomical difference which we find on the one hand between races or varieties of the human species and on the other between this species itself and those below it in the scale of organized beings.
It is in the fullest sense of the word morphology  the study of forms and their fluctuations under the influences of environment nutrition correlation heredity and pathological processes the endeavor always being to trace the given form to its etiological factors.
Thus its methods are those of inductive science in the truest sense.
Yes they go beyond this  they lead up in their highest expression to laws and formulas which are cosmic in application and express the universals of knowledge.
This was fully recognized by Dr. Allen and he gave it expression in the memorable phase  Morphology embraces all animated structures as parts in a scheme of Philosophy.
I wish to emphasize this dictum because all his work in the somatic field of anthropology was dominated by and must be read in the light of this wide conception of its meaning.
No greater mistake could there be than to imagine that this recognition of the indefinite value of observations led him to seek premature generalization or to neglect minuteness of details.
The opposite is true and it were hard to find an example of a more painstaking laborious student of the smallest features of individual and racial anatomy.
I could not bring to your knowledge a more striking example of this than one of his earliest contributions to anthropologic anatomy one published more than thirty years ago in the Dental Cosmos for November 1867.
Its subject is The Jaw of MoulinQuignon a title which will probably not be very full of meaning to many of you so I must premise by explaining it.
When the celebrated French antiquary Boucher de Perthes made his discovery of handmade stone implements in the preglacial gravels of Abbeville it was objected to him that no human bones had been found among those of the elephants and hippopotami in the strata.
He saw the force of this objection and offered a handsome sum to any of the quarrymen who should make such a discovery.
It is not surprising that in a short time such a human relic was found the half of a lower jaw imbedded in the gravel about fifteen feet below the surface.
He announced it with glee but the jaw met with such an equivocal reception that a mixed English and French commission of expert geologists archaeologists and anatomists was appointed to repair to Abbeville and settle the discussion.
The result could have been predicted.
The committee convened talked inspected the gravel pit and went away each member being more than ever convinced that his former view was correct.
This took place in 1863 and for several years there continued a lively debate as to the authenticity of the find eminent scientists arraying themselves on each side.
Without referring to other points in the controversy I shall mention only that which attracted Dr. Allen  the anatomical peculiarties of the bone.
It was argued by those who believed the find to be genuine that the characteristics of this lower jaw were so marked that it must have belonged to a race of men widely divergent from the present inhabitants of France.
It was to this special question that Dr. Allen addressed himself.
He divided it into two headings as follows  1.
What is the pattern of an ordinary jaw 
2.
What is the value of the lower jaw in Man as a test character of race 
You will form some idea of the amount of labor which the author bestowed on this paper when I add that in its preparation he visited every important anatomical collection in Philadelphia measured and handled more than four hundred inferior maxillaries and based his results on the close comparison of three hundred and twenty from adults and in perfect condition.
I have space to give his conclusions only which are so farreaching and based on such exhaustive observation that they should be committed to memory by every student of racial anatomy.
The first refers to the bone under consideration and is this  The lower jaw is of little value as a test character of race owing to its wide variations in every race.
The second is a generalization which bears upon comparative racial anatomy as a whole  to wit   Any character or group of characters pertaining to any single bone lose their value when used in framing general conclusions.
In the application of the principle here annunciated lies the aim of most of Dr. Allen's subsequent work in comparative racial an atomy.
He was never satisfied with describing variations merely.
To his acute and orderly mind they remained valueless and meaningless until their full significance both as cause and consequence in the complete morphology of the individual was set forth.
This masterly grasp of the interrelation of anatomical facts was finely illustrated by his various communications in the Proceedings of this Academy and elsewhere on the consequences brought about when the immediate ancestor of Man gradually adapted himself to walk upright instead of upon 'all fours.
Dr. Allen traced most of the special anatomical characteristics of Man to this evolution from a quadrupedal to a bipedal type.
He pointed out how it led to a new disposition or rearrangement of the special organs such as pushing the heart over to the left side due to the flattening of the sternum and changes in the position of the teeth.
He took pains to point out also that our species is still far from being entirely adapted for the erect position as is evidenced by the inadequate valvular mechanism of the veins the shape of the pelvis and other features.
Such considerations led him in one of his later papers read before the Congress of American Physicians and Surgeons 1894 to point out the practical application of morphology as a factor in the etiology of disease.
This essay is full of interesting matter for the anthropologist and is largely based on comparative racial anatomy.
He justly says  The scientific study of race in connection with diseased action is almost an unbroken field.
I have space to mention only two of the highly important conclusions reached in that essay.
The first is the striking distinction which he draws between specialization and degeneration in Man as compared with analogous processes in the lower animals.
I illustrate it by his example of the change from a quadritubercular to a tritubercular tooth in the human species.
Dr. Allen remarks of this   We can say with certainty that the loss of a cusp in a human molar tooth is associated with decreased initial energy  and that such changes are not due as in the lower animals to adaptation to special and as a rule to higher ends.
The second point in this paper of the greatest interest to anthropologists is the contrast which Dr. Allen draws between the skeletons of civilized and uncivilized men.
The bones of civilized peopies are marked by an absence of correlation or to use bis own expression  The bones themselves appear to become individualized.
This presents a curious analogy to the sociological results of civilization for it is generally acknowledged that the highest product of culture is the development of the individual life and the specialization of mental activities.
Dr. Burt J. Wilder in commenting on this address remarked that the fundamental thesis of the author appeared to be that structure is a record of function.
Though Dr. Allen did not directly accept this rendition of his philosophy my own impression is that it is in full accord with his teachings.
The study of morphology from its artistic or pictorial side led Dr. Allen in 1875 to the publication in the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society of his suggestive treatise entitled An Analysis of the Life Form in Art.
It covers 71 quarto pages and the text is illustrated by 185 figures.
The chief aim of the author was to analyze those art forms of early or savage peoples which have originated in models found in nature to point out those peculiar traits in animals and plants which caught the eye of the primitive artist and to set forth the passage from the realistic to the conventional in early design.
Such models as the palmtree the serpent the man the lion etc. are selected as examples and traced with minuteness in their representations in ancient and uncultivated art.
This was a delicate and difficult task and it must be said that it would not be safe to follow all of Dr. Allen's identifications.
Thestudy of primitive decorative art has made rapid progress in the last score of years and the principles it now accepts were scarcely known that long ago.
Still this work may be studied with profit and the accurate and philosophic conception of life form which everywhere guides the author leads him to many suggestions of permanent value.
A portion of it is devoted especially to subjects from aboriginal American design and pictography which is an added claim to ita consideration by the archaeologist.
In the last few years of his life Dr. Allen devoted much time to researches in craniology proper endeavoring to place that vacillating branch of anthropology on a secure footing.
In 1894 he proposed in the Proceedings of this Academy a new method of determining the plane of the skull and in 1896 advocated the adoption of a uniform method of describing its form and parts.
In general theory he followed Dr. James Aitken Meigs in his classification and pointed out that the quite recent plan of Professor Giuseppe Sergi is little more than a return to Meigs' methods.
He was the first in 1891 to suggest the term  pedomorphism  as signifying the retention of infantile and adolescent traits in the adult skull and extended the connotation of the term to the whole skeleton.
He gave this characteristic a more exact value by showing that it is present in greater or lesser degree in every skull and he urged that such traits should form a part of the description of every specimen.
The chief results of his studies in craniology are included in two remarkable memoirs.
The earlier was published in the Journal of this Academy for 1896 entitled Crania from the Mounds of the St. Johns River Florida  a Study made in connection with Crania from other parts of North America.
The reception which this memoir received among craniologists was most favorable.
Professor Emil Schmidt of Leipzig one of the most competent judges in Europe said of it at theclose of a review in the Centralblatt fur Anthropologic This is the most important contribution to craniological science which American scientific literature has offered for a long series of years.
It would be quite impossible to do it justice in a few words and and it would be inappropriate here to enter into its technical details.
It may be sufficient to say that it advances a new and more complete terminology than that now generally in use  that various novel and ingenious instruments for measurement are described  and that the comparisons instituted are of the most thoroughgoing kind.
These lines of thought and others of an allied nature were continued in a memoir not yet published but which will soon appear in the Transactions of the Wagner Free Institute of Science.
Its subject is a series of skulls from the Hawaiian Islands some from caves others from shore burials.
As this memoir was completed by Dr. Allen but a few weeks before his death it may be considered to embody his maturest opinions and I shall give it therefore a somewhat full examination.
The same terminology is adopted in it as in the previous memoir referred to and the methods of investigation are the same or analogous.
It illustrates bis constant aim to establish some other and if possible more stable criteria of cranial comparison than those in common use  and on the other hand to subject the latter to a much closer criticism than they have heretofore received.
In the former direction he emphasizes the significance of the presence of the prenasal fossa as determining grade  points out the value of the infraorbital suture which is generally neglected  and offers as entirely new the comparisons of the pyramidal process of the palatal bone and the prominence or recession of the zygoma when the skull is viewed from above.
He estimates with precision the signification of pedomorphism as a sign not so much of arrested as of incompleted development.
One of the most striking results reached is in his own words that  the differences between the crania are not due to race but to methods of living and in some degree to differences of mental strength in individuals.
This modest statement by no means conveys the full import of his demonstration.
What his laborious skilful and accurate measurements show taken in conjunction with the proved unity of race but diversity of nutrition and cultureconditions of his specimens is that the ordinary contrasts in skullforms upon which many stately theories of races and schemes of prehistoric interminglings have been erected are of such doubtful significance that they are inadequate for that purpose.
Pursuing this line of research further Dr. Allen asked himself what is the proximate and remote etiology what are the immediate and more distant factors in the modification of skull forms
In this memoir he brings out some of these with force while others which had he lived he would have developed fully are merely suggested.
Thus the correlation of the loss of the upper front teeth with important variations in cranial conformation is admirably set forth  and the influence of diseased action causing disuse and thus in turn lessening nutrition and modifying shape and contour is clearly explained.
Some inquiries which he advanced tentatively were of far more weight in his own mind than his expressions indicate.
For example in the last conversation I had with him a few days before his decease he asked my attention particularly to the consideration whether the whole range of exanthemata and especially measles to which the white race has been time out of mind exposed and is now largely immune are not chargeable with many of its peculiar characteristics in facial and cranial anatomy.
It was clearly his intention to present this from a much wider comparative scheme had his life been spared.
He almost incidentally refers to a subject which interested him deeply and on which he would have made more extended examinations that is as above mentioned the mental capacity of the individual as a distinct cause of modified skull form.
While this in itself is not new he aimed to approach it by novel tests.
The last lines of that memoir are indicative of his loftier estimate of craniology than a mere criterion of race.
As such he did not esteem it highly  but he saw in the investigation of the nutritive psychical cultural and morbid processes which alter the cranial contours admirable illustrations of those profound forces which shape and mould life forms everywhere and are the underlying momenta of all morphology whether of plants or animals.
In this comprehensive sense craniology takes just rank among the great and leading subjects of scientific investigation.
Another feature in the memoir which will attract the student is a novel graphic method of displaying similarities and differences of skull form.
Dr. Allen called it the  terrace method and it has obvious advantages over the curvilinear graphic systems now in use.
This brief review of Dr. Allen's labors in one branch of learning would be still more imperfect did I neglect to record some of his personal characteristics as a student and teacher of science.
Everywhere his work was marked by a singular modesty of claim by entire justice to the labors of others in the same field by gentleness in criticising their results by constant willingness to assist those who sought information by an earnest desire to stimulate the love of knowledge for its own sake and by unceasing efforts to present this knowledge in its broadest relations both to human welfare and abstract science.
DR. HORN'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO COLEOPTEROLOGY.
BY JOHN B. SMITH.
When it is said that poets are born not made it is putting in a loose and popular form the fact that men are unequally endowed at birth  that special faculties are inborn in some who if they are given the opportunity to use them become eminent in literature art or science.
It is certain that Dr. George H. Horn was a born systematist   a man with a genius for arranging things for ferreting out their true relationships for ascertaining the meaning of apparently meaningless structures and for uniting everything into a consistent congruent whole.
It is probable that whatever the line of natural science taken up it would have profited by Dr. Horn's work.
It is certain that the study of Coleoptera has been enormously advanced by him and that not only were new facts added but old well known matter became endowed with new life and meaning under his masterly treatment.
He exhibited an interesting combination of the almost intuitive ability to reach sound conclusions characteristic of certain brilliant Frenchmen with the power to give close attention to detail and to painfully strive after facts peculiar to many German students.
It is this ability to do patient work in securing facts and to marshal them in such order that they led irresistibly to the conclusion which he had reached that gives his work its permanent scientific value.
It is difficult to speak of Dr. Horn without referring also to Dr. John L. Leconte  first and always his teacher afterward also his colaborer.
And it was wonderful how these two men supplemented each other 
Dr. Leconte was the broader student of nature  his grasp was wider and he saw the Coleoptera more truly in their relation to other orders and the insects in their relation to the rest of the animal kingdom.
Dr. Horn was narrower but his knowledge of detail was greater and more accurate.
The result of combining these two characteristics may be seen in the Classification of the North American Coleoptera a work the like of which does not exist in any other country or in any other language.
There are more elaborate books profusely illustrated much more expensive and equally valuable as contributions to entomological science but nowhere is there so much so clearly and succinctly told in so small a compass.
There is scarcely a useless word in the book yet all that is needful to inform the student is there.
It represents the ripe experience of Dr. Leconte and the critical and accurate knowledge of technical detail characteristic of Dr. Horn.
It is difficult to estimate rightly Dr. Horn's influence on Coleopterology at the present time.
There is no doubt that for America he fixed a standard below which no future worker may fall if he desires to obtain recognition or to be considered other than an amateur.
In other countries his methods and conclusions were at first opposed then tolerated and now some of the younger workers are beginning to follow him.
In the United States almost all recent work has been on the models furnished by him.
There is only one notable exception.
His influence appears strongly in almost every paper on Coleoptera that has been published in the United States during the last decade and no doubt so long as these writers continue this influence will be felt.
He has set the example of thoroughness and nothing else will be acceptable in the future.
He has constantly taught us that individuals are parts of an aggregate species and that species are not isolated facts or productions but parts of a great scheme which it is the work of the systematist to unravel.
This is the impression gained from his work and such were his verbal statements at society and other meetings.
The influence of this teaching will be felt throughout at least the present generation.
In breaking away from the older schemes of classification and seeking characters not only in one organ or any one set of organs or appendages but everywhere on the body  in proving that nothing is too insignificant to be studied and to have a meaning he has rendered a service not only to Coleopterology but to entomology at large which will not be estimated at its true worth for some time to come.
He early impressed upon me the important fact that the only true way to do systematic work is to ascertain how the species under consideration had developed and this perhaps is the true secret of his success in untangling many of the problems in the classification of the Coleoptera.
The certainty with which he seized upon the important characters though sometimes almost the most inconspicuous as well seemed often little short of marvellous and when once he had the clue the persistence with which he followed it and the skill with which he showed how what was had come to be challenged the admiration of all who used the published results of his labors.
The strength of his faith in the correctness of his system is shown by the fact that several times when he found what he considered unwarranted breaks he predicted the discovery of other species with a stated combination of characters  and these species have been in most cases actually discovered.
It is not the least of Dr. Horn's services to Coleopterology that he has set so clear an example as to induce other workers in other departments of entomology to accept his methods so generally.
To be recognized a species must be described and named and in entomology especially there is a great field for one afflicted by the mihi itch.
But while by force of circumstances Dr. Horn was occasionally compelled to describe species singly yet this was always a disagreeable task the greatest number of the species named by him and these run well over a thousand being described in monographic or systematic papers and their relationship to those already named properly brought out.
He always claimed that there was no evidence that an insect was really suffering for the want of a name and that no wrong would be done to it by postponing the christening for a brief period.
To him a species was not of interest in itself or merely as a new thing that was to be named.
It was of the greatest interest only when it filled a gap in a series.
Species to him were steps halting places in the march toward a specific structure or combination of structures and he was always delighted when a particularly long stretch of territory was broken by a new discovery.
The result of this mode of looking at species is seen in his arrangement of tables and synopses  always the effort is to express the structural relations of the forms to each other and the various lines that diverge from each obvious type.
It is also shown in his descrijtion of species which are models of clear statement in which essentials are emphasized structure is given the foremost rank and minor details are often mentioned only as a mere incident.
The important point to him was the combination of characters  the individual was useful only as an evidence that such a combination actually existed.
In this matter of specific descriptions I may be allowed to quote the opinion of Mr. Henry Ulke of Washington D. C the oldest of the American entomologists today the companion and friend of Dr. Leconte almost from the beginning of his work and equally the friend and fellowworker of Dr. Horn.
He says  Up to this time it was necessary for all entomologists even Horn to consult the types before beginning any monographic work to ascertain what the describer meant and to visit Cambridge London Paris or other places for that purpose.
With Horn this is not necessary.
His descriptions are so ideally accurate that one is never in doubt as to which species is under examination.
His lucidity and clearness often remind me of a well executed portrait where the resemblance to the original is so striking as to be recognized at the first glance.
He never described an individual as a specific representative.
He insisted that a species could never be represented by one individual or even by one sex only.
The characters of both male and female combined were necessary to make it intelligible and the true idea of a species comprises also all of its variations in both sexes.
Almost as a logical necessity he did not believe in types and I do not think that there is a single specimen in his entire collection so labelled.
In his view every specimen in his hands when he described a species was equally a type and the only concession he would make toward the single example idea was to place one specimen on the label.
This is a point on which opinions vary.
I am not sure that I would like to go quite so far as he in this particular.
I believe that the Doctor was perfectly correct in his idea of a species.
It seems to me indeed the only logical conception  but I am not certain that it was good policy to neglect the designation of an individual as representing the described combination.
No man is infallible and even Dr. Horn may have confused two species under one name and the designation of an individual type would possibly save trouble afterward in selecting the particular form which should stand for the name proposed by him.
Dr. Horn was a hard worker in every sense of the word.
His temperament was such that he was never really happy unless at work and a fair day's scientific labor was always accomplished even when the demands of his profession kept him up for almost entire nights.
It needs only a reference to the publications of the American Entomological Society to get some idea of the amount of work that was accomplished and as to its quality the standard remains the same up to the very last paper published by him.
His work began with Descriptions of three new species of Gorgonidce in the Collection of the Academy published in the Proceedings for 1860 p. 233 or thirtyseven years ago.
His first entomological paper  Descriptions of new North American Coleoptera in the Cabinet of the Entomological Society of Philadelphia was published in the same volume pp.
569571 with Plate 8.
The list of his papers comprises 240 titles only six of them nonentomological and in them about 150 new genera and more than 1.550 new species were characterized.
The papers are not widely scattered  the Proceedings of this Academy of the American Philoso35 pineal Society and the Transactions of the American Entomological Society contain by far the greatest proportion and all the most important of them.
Yet a mere enumeration of the number of titles and of the number of genera and species described does not give an adequate idea of Dr. Horn's contribution to the literature of American Coleopterology.
He never wrote merely to fill space and few of his titles represent short notes.
Almost all represent the results of original study and many titles cover considerably over 100 pages of print.
This print itself is usually condensed and so is the language of the author.
Dr. Horn possessed in an unusual degree the power of succinct statement and he never wasted words.
It was his practice to formulate his conclusions in the briefest possible manner and to present his proofs simply and without argument.
Though but 150 genera are credited to him yet of the almost 1900 accredited to our fauna he has studied nearly all and has actually characterized for the Classification by far the greatest number of them.
While the species described by him number but 1550 yet in describing these he made known to us more clearly than they were known before more than half of the 11000 described North American Coleoptera.
The work he did was simply stupendous and it grows on one as he considers it.
Everywhere order appears out of chaos  under his touch what we had considered a hopeless tangle is now found to unravel easily and we are surprised at the wealth of good characters in series which had theretofore been so distressingly similar in appearance that nothing could be done with them.
Where so much is excellent it is difficult to assign comparative rank to the published work  but perhaps that on the genera of Carabidse 1881 may be considered the best.
It was certainly in some respects the most thorough the most revolutionary and the most convincing  for his conclusions have secured practically universal acceptance.
His work on the Silphidre in 1880 while not so brilliant was even a greater tax on his powers and I am not certain that he did not himself feel most proud of this.
It would be a serious omission did I fail to call attention to the fact that many of Dr. Horn's papers are fully and carefully illustrated with drawings from his own pen and pencil.
That same faculty that enabled him to seize the important structural facts in an insect seemed to animate his pencil when he sketched them for the information of others.
His drawings could scarcely be called artistic and were often the merest outlines  but somehow they seemed to show just what it was intended they should and if not pleasing to the eye they were decidedly instructive to the mind.
Mr. Samuel Heushaw of the Boston Society of Natural History has well expressed a general estimate as follows   I doubt   he writes   if there is an entomologist with the same work to his credit the same in amount and kind who has left so little to be set aside or corrected as will be found to be the case with the work of Dr.
Horn.
Dr. Horn was what may be called a  closet naturalist although with considerable experience in the field.
His work was with dead and dry specimens and while always interested in life histories or what are now termed biologies of insects these were secondary.
The specimens and the facts they represented were the things always.
I do not believe he ever cut a section of an insect in his life and certainly never made use of any in his work.
He would therefore be condemned as unscientific by those who see no value in work not biographic and those who consider that no sound conclusions can be reached unless a specimen has been elaborately prepared sliced stained mounted and then ideally reconstructed.
Yet all these are equally studies of nature and each may be scientific or the reverse.
We need all the facts from every point of view and to consider one line of work superior or more essential argues the narrowness of the specialist who sees nothing good except as the result of the method followed by himself.
Even the  mere species maker  whom it is at present the fashion to heap with contumely has a right to exist for without him we could not refer intelligently to the creature whose life history is under consideration or whose parafined corpse is undergoing  microtomy.
Dr. Horn has shown us by his labors that nature and the manner of nature's work can be as intelligently studied in preserved adult specimens as in any other stage or manner  and if his work is as well done as I believe it has been the work of students following other paths will simply confirm his conclusions.
The aim of the scientific student should be to get at the truth and all methods of reaching that goal are worthy of consideration.
This was the conviction of Dr. Horn himself and I believe he was right.
At all events the contributions made by him to Coleopterology give him an indisputable right to rank with the best that are or ever have been workers in this Order.
The following annual reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee  REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The average attendance at the meetings of the Academy during the past year has been 25.
There has been no occasion of sufficient interest to fill the room and thus raise this average as has usually been the case in former years while the separation of special interests into Sections at the meetings of which communications are made has continued to detract from the interest of the general sessions of the Academy although the cooperation of the Biological and Microscopical Section and less frequently that of the Mineralogical and Geological Section have been productive of good results.
Verbal communications have been made by Messrs. Rand Sharp Goldsmith Pilsbry J. C. Morris Carter Woolman G. Vaux Jr. S. Brown Morsel Skinner Chapman Calvert Holman Dixon Heath Keely Conklin Palmer Kelly Mercer Schaeffer Frazer Allen Peirce Crawford Stewart Reese C. Morris Griffiths Boyer Wells Garrison Sullivan Mrs. Bladen and Miss Walter.
But few of these were reported by their authors for publication and they can therefore only be referred to in the written minutes of the Academy.
Four hundred and eightyfour pages of the Proceedings illustrated by 13 plates and 144 pages of the Journal with 17 plates forming the first part of Volume XI have been issued.
As heretofore we are indebted to Mr. Clarence B. Moore for the beautiful illustrations of his interesting paper on the mounds of the Georgia coast constituting the number.
The Conchological Section has continued the publication of the Manual af Conchology 288 pages and 51 plates having been published since the last report while the Entomological Section and the American Entomological Society have published 539 pages and 15 plates in the same period making a total of 1455 pages and 96 plates added within the year to scientific literature.
Thirtyeight papers have been presented for publication as follows  H. A. Pilsbry 5 H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta 1 H. A. Pilsbry and Benjamin Sharp 1 S. N. Rhoads 5 S. N. Rhoads and Robert T. Young 1 Wm.
J.
Fox 2 T. D. A. Cockerel
2 T. D. A. Cockerell and W. J.
Fox 1 Witmer Stone 2 Ida A. Keller 2 Persifor Frazer 2 Frank C. Baker 1 C. B. Moore 1 Marquis de Nadaillac 1 T. Chalkley Palmer 1 Mary A. Schively 1 Charles H. Johnson 1 Harold Heath 1 John Ford 1 Philip P. Calvert 1 E. Goldsmith 1 James E. Benedict 1 John Van Denburg 1 H. Von Ihering 1 Thomas Meehan 1.
Of these 27 have been printed in the Proceedings two in the Journal while two others have been reported on favorably for the Proceedings.
One paper has been returned to the author one has been withdrawn by the author and five are held under advisement.
In addition to the above an elaborate memoir by the late Edw.
D. Cope on the organic remains of the Port Kennedy Cave Deposit probably the last work completed by the distinguished author is in the hands of the Publication Committee and will be presented as soon as means for the required illustrations can be secured.
Eighteen members and two correspondents have been elected.
The deaths of ten members and four correspondents have been recorded four members have been dropped from the roll for nonpaymenl of dues and eleven members have resigned as follows  Arthur A. Bliss J. S. de Benneville Jean Fraley Hallowell Henry T. Coates Thomas Earle White M. L. Orum William Thomson John Struthers Edgar W. Earle Edward C. Kirk and B. W. Griffiths.
In addition to the other societies heretofore reported as meeting in the Academy the Philadelphia Branch of the Boston Mycological Club has been granted permission to hold its sessions in the Council room once a week at an hour not otherwise appropriated.
The Committee on cheaper rates of postage on natural history material appointed on September 5 1893 has informed the Academy that its labors have been successful a proposed modification of the postal laws having been adopted by the Universal Postal Union whereby specimens of natural history are admitted to the mails of the Union at the same rates as samples of merchandise.
The Academy is to be congratulated that this very desirable result is due to the efficiency of its Committee which consisted of Messrs. Calvert Pilsbry and Woolman.
An application to the Legislature authorized March 30 1897 for an appropriation from the public funds toward the furnishing of the new building of the Academy was productive of absolutely no result.
The Hayden Memorial Geological Award for 1897 was conferred on Professor A. Karpinski Director of the Geological Survey of Russia.
The medal and a draft for the annual interest on the fund were presented to the recipient of the recognition by Dr. Persifor Frazer the Academy's representative at the 7th International Congress of Geologists at a public session of the Congress.
The Academy as a member of the Congress will receive its official publications.
A resolution protesting against the passage of a bill providing for the damming of the Delaware River was adopted March 30th and transmitted to the Governor of New Jersey who was not however deterred thereby from signing the bill.
This and similar protests were heeded by the Legislature of Pennsylvania and the measure being defeated at Harrisburg became inoperative as the two States must agree on any action affecting the Delaware River.
Three deaths occurring during the year have rendered it sorrowfully memorable in the history of the Academy.
The society has indeed suffered severe loss since 1891 when the death of Dr. Leidy left a vacancy in its working force which has not in any degree been filled.
Since then eight members distinguished as original investigators or able in the administration of its affairs have died in rapid succession.
The most recent of these Edward D. Cope Harrison Allen and George H. Horn were recognized throughout the scientific world as of eminence in their several specialties each in his degree added lustre to the work of the Academy and each left on record substantial evidence of his interest in its welfare.
Identified as these distinguished naturalists were with the Academy's activity as an agent of intellectual progress for more than thirty years the immediate future is not likely to compensate for their loss.
During the attendance of the Recording Secretary at the Second International Library Conference in London the duties of the office were satisfactorily performed by Mr. Wm.
J.
Fox.
Edward J. Nolan Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
During the past year commencing December 1 1896 there have been received from one hundred and two societies museums libraries etc. one hundred and ninetyseven acknowledgements of the receipt of publications of the Academy and from thirtysix societies 1897.
539 libraries etc. fortythree notices that their publications have been forwarded to the Academy together with twentyfive applications for exchange of publications and asking for deficiencies.
Twentyone letters on various subjects have been received and twentysix written.
Fifteen circulars and invitations to the Academy to participate in Congresses or meetings and announcements of the deaths of scientific men have been received and when necessary acknowledged.
During the year two correspondents have been elected and notified.
The deaths of the following correspondents have been reported  Auguste Louis Brot of Geneva Switzerland  elected in 1887 died August 30 1896.
Constantin von Ettingshausen of Gratz Austria  elected in 1859 died February 1 1897.
Rev.
Samuel Haughton of Dublin Ireland  elected in 1868 died November 1897.
Johannes Japetus Smith Steenstrup of Copenhagen Denmark elected in 1878 died June 20 1897.
Seven hundred and three acknowledgements for gifts to the library and one hundred and ten acknowledgements for gifts to the museum have been forwarded.
Respectfully submitted Ben j. ShaPvP Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
The total of additions made to the library of the Academy since the close of November 1896 is 5145.
Of these 4476 are pamphlets and parts of periodicals 651 volumes 15 maps and three photographs.
They have been received from the following sources   Societies 2252 I. V. Williamson Fund .
1244 Editors 896 Authors 219 Meigs Fund 154 TJ.
S. Dept.
of Agriculture 57 Pennsylvania State Library 46 U. S. Dept.
of the Interior 35 Charles P. Perot .
28 Wilson Fund .
.
20 Purchased 19 Chas.
E. Smith .
.
14 H. A. Pilsbry .
.
14 U. S. Dept.
of State 13 Minister of Public Works France 11 U. S. Dept.
of Labor .
.
9 Persifor Frazer  .
8 Geological Survey of India 7 Geological and Natural History Survey Minn. 7 Bernard H. Steiner .
.
7 Comite Geologique Russe 6 U. S. Treas.
Department 6 Thomas Meeban ... 5 Department of Mines New South Wales .... 5 U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries ... 4 Geological Survey of Missouri 4 East Indian Government 3 Geological Surv.
of Canada 3 Geological Survey of Alabama 3 Ohio State Library ... 3 Clarence B. Moore ... 3 GovernorGeneral Indes Neerlandaises .... 3 P. P. Calvert 3 University of Kansas .
.
3 U. S. War Department .
2 Cal.
State Mining Bureau 2 Mass.
Commission of Inland Fisheries etc.
.
.
2 Norwegian Government .
2 CongrSs Geologique Internationale 2 Bentham Trustees Kew Gardens 2 Commision Geologica de Mexico 2 S. R. Roberts .... 2 Government of Argentine Republic 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 Geological Survey of Iowa Mr. Wetherill .
.
.
AY.
W. Jefferis .
.
W. E. Meehan .
.
.
Geological Survey of New York Trustees of the Melbourne Exhibition Geological Survey of Portugal L. Voission .... Exposition International de Bruxelles .
Department of Mines Nova Scotia .
Angelo Heilprin Charles G. Sower .
Congres International des Peches Mari times .
Benjamin Sharp Samuel N. Rhoads Uselma C. Smith .
Mrs. Carvill Lewis Wm.
J.
Fox .... Henry C. McCook .
.
Geological Survey of Rou mania Lewis Woolman Samuel G. Dixon .
Geological Survey of Mary land U. S. Fish Commission Lord Crawford .
Adams Memorial Committee 1 Committee on Botany Pennsylvania Pharmaceutical Association .
1 Emil Holub 1 Lemcke  Buechner New York 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 These accessions were distributed to the several departments of the library as follows   Journals 4302 Geology 181 Botany 112 General Natural History .
102 Agriculture 52 Entomology 47 Anthropology .... 47 Mammalogy 31 Conchology 30 Voyages and Travels .
.
30 Ichthyology 25 Anatomy and Physiology 23 Mineralogy .
Physical Science Ornithology .
Helminthology .
Medicine .
Bibliography Chemistry Geography .
Encyclopedias .
Herpetology .
.
Miscellaneous .
18 17 13 10 9 7 5 5 4 1 74 The slight falling off in receipts from the number reported last year is owing to the decrease of appropriations made necessary by the large expenditures for 1896.
To the same cause is due the comparatively small number of volumes bound which amounts to only 270 a large part of these being credited to the special funds thus farther curtailing the amount available for the purchase of books.
In the cases secured by the removal last year of the stock of publications of the Academy to the basement have been arranged the books on Physical Science and Anthropology the latter section of the library being more than doubled by the large collection of valuable works included in the Meigs bequest.
Extensive additions of case room are required in nearly every department of the library the maintenance of the geographical arrangement of the journals and periodicals being increasingly difficult from year to year.
The plan suggested in the last report of arranging journals devoted to special subjects in connection with the special departments of the library does not seem to meet with the endorsement of those immediately concerned so that no transfers have been made.
A portrait in oil of the late Professor Edward D. Cope by C. A.
NVorrall has been procured by subscription and added to the gallery.
The Librarian improved the occasion of his attendance last July at the Second International Library Conference held in London to inspect the scientific sections of a number of libraries there and elsewhere throughout the United Kingdom with the result of being able to congratulate the Academy on the extent and convenience of arrangement of its collection of books which in both respects compares favorably with those of much older establishments.
In liberality of administration the Academy is especially deserving of recognition as apart from the fact that under the ByLaws the books must be consulted on the premises it places on the reader none of the restrictions almost universally met with elsewhere.
It is increasingly apparent that the growth and arrangement of the library are seriously interfered with by lack of means.
If it were not for the care taken to secure the largest possible return from exchange of publications the other resources at the disposal of the Library Committee would be entirely inadequate and the opportunity for advanced study in the Academy would be materially curtailed.
This would be now more than ever the cause of serious regret because the library was never so much resorted to by students of kindred institutions as it has been during the past year.
Not only for such readers but more especially for our own workers it is essential that the latest scientific.
literature be placed promptly on our shelves and in such binding as to make it most convenient of access with the least wear and tear.
To secure these ends at least double the income now at the disposal of the Library Committee will be required.
Acknowledgement is again due Mr. Wm J.
Fox for efficient service in the library especially during the Librarian's absence in Europe.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Edw t ard J. Nolan Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The past year has been characterized by a greatly increased interest on the part of the general public in the Academy's Museum owing to the better facilities for the exhibition of the collections afforded by the new museum building the opening of which was recorded in our last report.
New cases have been placed on the first and second floors of the new building and much has been accomplished in perfecting the arrangement of the various collections.
The Curators are able to report the specimens at the present time in an excellent state of preservation although the impossibility of the systematic arrangement and proper display of the collections in some departments owing to the need of cases seriously affects their examination and use by students.
The most noteworthy change in the arrangement of the museum during the year has been the transfer of the wall cases on the bird gallery to the basement of the new building where a commodious storage department has been arranged for the reception of the great bulk of the alcoholic preparations.
The entire series of fishes and alcoholic mollusca have already been arranged in their new quarters and are much more accessible to the student besides being entirely protected from the dampness which in their old situation seriously affected the preservation of the labels.
The entire collection of fishes numbering upward of fifteen thousand has been catalogued by Mr. Henry W. Fowler and supplementary labels placed inside the jars to ensure the preservation of the data.
The work of cataloguing and renovating the ornithological collection which has been in progress for several years past has been brought to completion.
The remounted exhibition collection is ready for removal to the third floor of the new building as soon as sufficient cases can be procured.
A start has already been made in the furnishing of this floor and one handsome plateglass case has been placed in position in which will be arranged a synoptical collection representing the principal orders of birds.
A similar case has been placed in the Pennsylvania and New Jersey room for the accommodation of the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club Collection of local birds with nests and eggs which is now nearly complete.
For the storage of bird skins additional space has been allotted adjoining the room of the Ornithological Section.
In the mammal hall attention is called to the group of Alaskan Fur Seals collected by Dr. Sharp and Mr. J. M. Justice which has been mounted during the year and is now displayed in a large plateglass case.
Numerous other animals have been mounted by the taxidermist during the past year all of which maintain the high standard of work which has characterized the specimens prepared for museum exhibition in the past few years.
Foremost among these may be mentioned the Orang Utan Striped Hyaena Pacific Walrus Cheetah and Florida Crocodile.
In the department of paleontology much valuable work has been accomplished.
The large slabs containing the Icthyosauri have been removed from the old vestibule to the entrance of the new Museum on Nineteenth Street where they can be seen to much better advantage.
The collection of vertebrate remains from the Port Kennedy Bone Cave upon which Professor Cope did his last scientific work has been displayed in the Pennsylvania and New Jersey Room.
The entire collection of American invertebrate fossils has been rearranged during the year and placed in systematic order as regards horizons while upward of twelve hundred specimens have been cleaned and placed in trays.
Work on the Isaac Lea Eocene Collection has progressed regularly during the year through the liberality of the Rev.
L. T. Chamberlain D. D. Mr. C. W. Johnson has been engaged in arranging the display collection which has been increased to fill an additional case provided by Dr. Chamberlain early in the year.
Mr. Johnson and Mr. Burns have also done a considerable amount of field work which has added richly to the collection.
Miss Anna T. Jeanes has presented two horizontal oak cases which have been placed on the first floor of the new museum in which a synoptical collection of minerals has been arranged for the benefit of students while a portion of the old collection of minerals which it is not desired to exbibit has been stored underneath in the drawers.
A collection of rocks from Philadelphia and vicinity selected mainly from the State Geological Survey Collection has been arranged in the Pennsylvania and New Jersey Room and a synoptical collection of rocks has been arranged in two cases in the old museum both of which will prove of assistance to students of geology.
Four additional cases have been added to the William S. Vaux Collection for the accommodation of exceptionally large crystals and masses of minerals and an additional case to the Clarence B. Moore Archaeological Collection.
Mr. Moore has spent much time in the field during the year and has added many rare and interesting specimens to this collection.
The conchological department has continued to increase under the constant care of the professor in that department and the rearrangement of a considerable portion of the bivalves has been made possible by the removal of part of the minerals from this gallery.
Besides those already mentioned there have been numerous large and valuable additions to the museum during the year as will be seen in the appended list.
Among them we would call attention to the valuable collection of marine specimens from California presented by Mr. Harold Heath  a collection of rocks and birds from South Africa presented by Dr. Emil Holub through Mr. H. G. Bryant  a collection of Coleoptera from Pennsylvania and New Jersey presented by the Feldman Collecting Social a collection of African insects and mollusks from Dr. A. Donaldson Smith  a collection of alcoholic mammals of North America from S. N. Rhoads as well as the numerous valuable specimens received through the year from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia.
The collection of marine invertebrates preserved in formaline has also been increased through the liberality of Mr. F. W. Walmsley.
Several important improvements in the museum building are also noteworthy particularly the fitting up of the receiving room at the east end as an addition to the library and the renovation of the Council Room.
The Curators have also during the year vacated one of the small rooms on the library floor and have allotted a large space on the basement floor of the new museum for the storage of publications.
The Curators take this occasion to express their indebtedness to various members and to the Conservators of the Sections for valuable assistance in caring for the special collections particulars of which will be found in their several reports.
Important assistance has also been rendered by the students of the Jessup Fund.
Much assistance has been given to specialists by placing the collections at their disposal and in addition to the many who have made use of material at the Academy specimens have been loaned to representatives of various scientific institutions throughout the country including Anthony Woodward Henry C. Mercer T. Wayland Vaughau Fred'k.
A. Lucas L. M. Underwood H. M. Smith Walter Faxon C. F. Millspaugh H. C. Oberholser B. L. Robinson T. W. Stanton Robert Ridgway and others.
Henry C. Chapman M. D. Chairman of the Curators.
REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
The Section has held ten meetings during the past year with slightly increased average attendance.
Communications of general interest have been made at each of the meetings diatoms and bacteriology receiving special attention.
The Conservator reports the purchase of several new objectives.
Donations to the museum were made by Dr. J. C. Morris and a large aquarium was presented by Mr. Holman.
The following communications were made to the Academy  Demonstration of Absorption of Carbon Dioxide and of the Generation of Oxygen by Diatoms by T. Chalkley Palmer.
Dentition of Snails by Professor Pilsbry. 
Furs by Dr. Morris. 
The Neuron by Dr. A. O. J. Kelly.
Structure of the Diatom Valve by F. J. Keeley.
The officers of the Section are as follows  Director J. Cheston Morris M. D. ViceDirector Treasurer .
Conservator Corresponding Secretary Recorder .
T. Chalkley Palmer.
Charles P. Perot.
F. J. Keely.
John G. Rothermel.
Charles S. Boyer.
Charles S. Boyer Recorder.
REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The past year has been one of continuous growth in the conchological department of the museum although no one accession of great size has been received.
In the arrangement of the collection considerable progress has been made.
The bivalves of the families Pholadidse Teredidse Myidse Mactridas Solenidoe Donacidse and some allied groups have been transferred from the table cases to the rail cases formerly occupied by minerals and systematically arranged therein.
To the space thus gained the terrestrial operculates have been transferred and the species rearranged according to the latest monographs of the several groups.
The cases formerly occupied by the operculates which had long since been outgrown by the increase of the collection will now be utilized for displaying the Bulimulidse which are at present being monographed in the Manual of Conchology  the collection of Helices having extended over the cases formerly containing Bulimi.
Other museum work worthy of note has been a thorough revision of the Ampullariidse Pinnidoe Pectunculus and Amphidromus of the collection by Miss J. E. Letson and a revision of the Arionidie and Cylindrellidse by Mr. E. G. Vanatta and the Conservator.
The recent and fossil Scaphopoda of our collection have been studied by the Director and Conservator of the Section and the specimens relabelled  the results of the study being embodied in a monograph of the group in the Manual of Conchology.
The entire collection of alcoholic mollusks has been transferred from the mollusk gallery wall cases to cases erected in the basement of the new building where they have been arranged in systematic order.
The routine work of identifying specimens for correspondents has as usual occupied considerable time but as in former years a large number of species new to science have resulted from the time thus expended.
1505 lots of specimens from 72 persons have been received labelled and placed in the collection during the year.
A detailed list of accessions will be found in  Addition to the Museum.
The officers of the Section are as follows  Director ...... Benjamin Sharp M. D. ViceDirector Recorder and Librarian Corresponding Secretary Treasurer .
.
John Ford.
.
Edw.
J. Nolan M. D. .
Chas.
W. Johnson.
.
S. Raymond Roberts.
Respectfully submitted Henry A. Pilsbry Conservator.
REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION.
Six meetings has been held during the present year.
The attendance has been good and many interesting and valuable verbal communications have been made.
The year has been an eventful one in the history of the Section.
More commodious quarters have been occupied and work in all of the orders of insects has been consequently stimulated.
The collections are in better condition than ever before and they are being well protected against museum pests.
The Section has been fortunate in having aid from a number of its members interested in special branches of entomology.
Dr. H. G. Griffith has done excellent work in the rearrangement of the exotic Coleoptera and Mr. Gerhard has worked industriously on the Martindale Lepidoptera.
A number of valuable collections have been presented and many small lots of insects.
These are enumerated in the list of additions to the museum.
It is hoped that the display collection in the museum may be rapidly increased for the benefit of the visiting public.
So far as the collections for study are concerned little is to be desired as in a number of the orders we have the finest collections of American species in the world.
Ten numbers of the Entomological News have been published forming 256 pages and 11 plates.
At the meeting of the Section held Dec. 23rd.
the following were elected to serve as officers for the coming year Director Chas.
S. Welles.
ViceDirector Treasurer Conservator and Recorder Secretary Publication Committee .
Philip Laurent.
E. T. Cresson.
Henry Skinner.
Win.
J.
Fox.
j J. H. Ridings.
1 C. W. Johnson.
Henry Skinner Recorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
The Director of the Botanical Section respectfully reports that though the work of the Section has had to be performed almost wholly by the volunteer labors of its members the general progress of the year has been satisfactory.
Much valuable assistance could have been secured in the distribution of various collections awaiting their final arrangement if the extra rooms had been fitted with the cases referred to in the Conservator's report to the Section which is appended as part of this document.
The cost of mounting specimens has been defrayed by the Academy.
Our late lamented fellow member John H. Redfield knowing that the time must surely come when the Herbarium and its work would retrograde without the services of a salaried Curator left his herbarium and library to the Section to be sold for the nucleus of a fund the interest of which should go to the care and increase of the collection of plants.
These have been disposed of the Herbarium being secured for 1700 by the Missouri Botanical Garden and the books sold at auction.
The fund will be known as the Redfield Memorial Herbarium Fund.
The investment now made will yield a small income next year which will help in the purchase of new collections.
No attempt has been made the past year to add to the fund as it was not thought wise to interfere with the applications of the Academy for aid in other directions.
The Section is free from debt and has a small balance in its treasury.
The officers for the ensuiug year are  Director .
Thomas Meehan.
ViceDirector ..... Charles E. Smith.
Conservator and Treasurer .
.
Stewardson Brown.
Recorder .
.
.
.
.
Chas.
Schaffer M. D. Corfesponding Seci'etary .
.
Jos.
D. Crawford.
Respectfully submitted Thomas Meehan Director.
Report of the Conservator.
 Notwithstanding the disadvantages under which the Botanical Department has had to work the result for the past year has been fully up to those preceding.
The mounting of the collections has been steadily carried on through the untiring efforts of the Director of the Section and is now completed up to Gentianacere.
It is hoped to have them all properly arranged by the end of the next season.
The Lewis and Clark Collection has been carefully examined by Mr. Thos.
Meehan and Professor B. L. Robinson of Harvard College.
There is every reason to expect that before the next report shall be made the much needed cases for accommodation of the rapidly accumulating material will have been secured.
The accessions of the year are recorded in the list of additions to the Museum.
I wish to congratulate the Section on the good work of the year and to thank all those who have contributed to its performance.
Stewardson Brown Conservator.
REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
Ten meetings of the Section have been held during the year with an average attendance of more than nine members.
36 An active interest has shown itself at the meetings communications having been made by many of the members and by visitors.
Of these may be mentioned several on geology especially of the vicinity on the composition of soils on a new mineral called Trisaltite by Mr. Goldsmith on glacial striae and rubbings made from them and on a large deposit of corundum in gneissoid or granitic rocks in Ontario.
Two successful excursions were enjoyed by the Section  one on May 27th to Media Mineral Hill and the Sharpless quarry and the other on October 23rd to the quarries etc.
near Avondale Chester Co.
The Officers of the Section are as follows   Director ...... Theodore D. Rand.
ViceDirector and Conservator .
.
Wm.
W. Jefferis.
Recorder ...... Charles Schaffer.
Treasurer .
John Ford.
Respectfully submitted Theo.
D. Rand Director.
REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION.
It is gratifying to be able to report the completion of the work of renovating the mounted collection of birds in the museum of the Academy.
This work was begun in 1892 and has progressed steadily ever since though press of other museum work has often occasioned delay.
As finally catalogued the collection of practically the same extent as at the time of the death of Dr. Thomas B. Wilson numbers 24492 specimens.
Of this number 15000 duplicates including the types have been unmounted and placed in tight cabinets while the remaining series of 10000 specimens has been arranged systematically in the large exhibition cases on the old Ornithological Gallery.
The improvement in the appearance of the collection is marked and the reduction in the number of the specimens exhibited makes it possible to dispense entirely with the old wall cases in which the specimens were so much in danger from mold and dampness.
The labelling except in the case of some of the larger birds has been restricted to group or family labels.
The cards are so quickly spoiled by dust in the old cases that it has been considered best to defer the general labelling until new cases are provided and the collection is removed to the new Museum building.
All the specimens are numbered to correspond with the catalogue and all data have been preserved on the bases of the stands.
The Conservator is now engaged in a careful study of the numerous type specimens contained in the collection the results of which will be published in the Proceedings of the Academy so that the important facts relative to this famous collection may be properly preserved.
During the past year the completion of the work above described has involved the remounting of 500 specimens the writing of 2000 labels and the entry of 5000 specimens in the permanent catalogue.
Besides this the entire collection was rearranged in the exhibition cases to bring it into proper sequence.
The Section's quarters have been still further enlarged by the allotment of additional space on the floor adjoining its room to accommodate the additional cases of skins.
The whole studyseries has been carefully examined and found to be in excellent condition.
The accessions for the year comprise an important collection of North Carolina birds presented by Robt.
T. Young a small collection of African species from Dr. Emil Holub and numerous specimens received from the Zoological Society.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has also added many rare and artistic groups of nests and eggs to the collection of Pennyslvania and New Jersey birds and by its meetings at the Academy has been instrumental in keeping up a live interest in this branch of science.
The Stone Collection of Pennyslvania and New Jersey birds numbering upward of 2000 skins has been received on deposit and is at the disposal of students who may desire to consult it.
In reviewing the work of the year the Conservator wishes to express his acknowledgment of the valuable assistance rendered by Mr. Henry W. Fowler.
At the annual meeting of the Section held December 20 1897 the following officers were elected   Director .... ViceDirector .
Recorder Secretary Treasurer and Conservator Spencer Trotter M. D. George S. Morris.
Stewardson Brown.
William A. Shryock.
Witmer Stone.
Wither Stone Conservator.
KEPORT OF THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SECTION.
Five meetings have been held during the past year at which communications were made by Prof's.
Brinton Allen and Culin and a special communication on  Primitive Transportation by Prof. Otis T. Mason of the National Museum Washington D. C. A committee was appointed to consider the question of obtaining space in the old museum hall for the collection of crania possessed by the Academy.
Mr. John G. Rothermel was elected Treasurer to succeed Dr. M. V. Ball resigned.
The death of Dr. Harrison Allen left vacant the Directorship which office he has filled since the organization of the Section.
At the December business meeting a quorum was not present and the annual election could not he held the officers of the Section being continued until the next meeting.
The office of Director remains vacant.
Charles Morris Bocorder.
REPORTS OF THE PROFESSORS.
Angelo Heilprin Professor of Geology reports that the work in his department during the past year has been confined mainly to its educational aspect.
The regular spring course of instruction was comprised in twentysix lectures and eight field demonstrations the attendance at which while smaller than in the corresponding period of the year before was sufficient to indicate a live interest in geology and an appreciation of the opportunities that were offered for practical study.
As in previous years a large part of the classes was composed of school teachers.
A special course of six lectures was delivered under the auspices of the Ludwick Institute in November and December with the largest attendance yet secured in the Academy the record showing an average of 163 for each lecture.
The condition of the collections in the department of geology remains unchanged.
There is a deficiency of caseroom and immediate relief can hardly be looked for.
Some rearrangement of the collections has been made under the direction of the Curators both in the old and in the new museum buildings but a large part of the specimens must still be placed in the drawers of the cases.
Additions to this department of the Academy's museum and notably to the affiliated department of paleontology have been received from various sources a number of them from former students of the courses of geology.
While the generous gift of the late Prof. E. D. Cope does not strictly concern the department of geology as defined by the ByLaws a reference to it cannot be omitted.
Prof.
Cope's collections are not only a monument to the indomitable energy aud scientific devotion of a master of his specialty but of the utmost importance to the student of vertebrate paleontology.
The collections should be secured for the Academy to which they have been virtually proffered and with which the name of the deceased has been most intimately associated.
Daniel G. Brinton M. D. Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology reports that during the spring of 1897 a course of free public lectures was delivered by him in the lecture hall of the Academy on the recent advances in the science of anthropology.
The lectures were well attended and an increased popular interest in this branch was manifest.
The anthropological collections of the Academy have been arranged in mostly new cases and exposed to public view in a favorable portion of the recently constructed addition to the Academy building.
The number of visitors who give attention to this portion of the collections of the Academy show that it is one in which the general public is much interested.
Benjamin Sharp M. D. Professor of Invertebrate Zoology reports that during the past year he delivered two courses one of ten and the other of six lectures upon invertebrate zoology under the auspices of the Ludwick Institute and one lecture in the Friday Evening Course on  The Sea and its Influence upon Animal Life.
The additions to the museum have not been extensive the most important being the collection of invertebrates made by the Alaskau and Siberian Expedition.
Henry A. Pilsbry Professor in the Department of Mollusca reports that he has delivered two courses of lectures upon Malacology during the year.
Several reports upon particular groups of mollusks both recent and fossil based upon material in the collection of the Academy have been prepared and published in the Proceedings together with others based upon material sent for investigation from abroad.
Progress has been made in the classification and arrangement of the collection the details of which may be found in the report of the Conservator of the Conchological Section.
Henry Skinner M. D. Professor in the Department of Insecta reports fully on the condition of the entomological collections his statements being included in the report of the Entomological Section.
He will deliver six lectures in the Academy's Ludwick Institute Course early in the coming year.
1897.
555 The election of Officers Councillors and Members of the Finance Committee to serve during 1898 was held with the following result   President VicePresidents Recording Secretary Corresponding Secretary Treasurer Librarian Curators Councillors to serve three years Finance Committee Councillor for unexpired term of two years Samuel G. Dixon M. D. Thomas Meehan.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. Edward J. Nolan M. D. Benjamin Sharp M. D. George Vaux Jr. Edward J. Nolan M. D. Henry A. Pilsbry.
Henry C. Chapman M. D. Arthur Erwin Brown.
Samuel G. Dixon M. D. Charles P. Perot.
C. Newlin Peirce.
Theodore D. Rand.
Philip P. Calvert.
Charles Morris.
Chas.
E. Smith.
Uselma C. Smith.
William Sellers.
Charles P. Perot.
Charles H. Cramp.
