REVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS  BINNEYA HEMPHILLIA HESPERARION PROPHYSAON AND ANADENULUS.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND E. G. VANATTA.
In a former essay 1 we undertook a revision of the Arionid genera Ariolimax and Aphallarion.
In the present paper the remaining American genera of Arionidce are similarly treated.
Profiting by a criticism from one 2 whom all limacologists acknowledge as master we have extended our anatomical observations to the pallial organs muscle system etc. with interesting and we believe important results.
The genera of Arionidse often scattered even by the great malacologists among Helicid or Limacid groups now fall into orderly sequence  and in the flood of light disclosed by comparative study of the myology the phylogeny and approximately final classification of the various groups is seen clearly outlined before us.
Trivial and unsatisfactory as are the external features of slugs the details of their internal morphology are wonderfully varied.
Everywhere there are important characters and those who starve their souls on a mere study of the genitalia and oral armature miss the best part of the feast.
Believing with Cope that all the facts of morphology should be taken into account in systematic classification  that  system  is in fact an epitome of the total structure as well as with certain distortions a phylogeny of organisms we have freely used characters from all organs in which we found differentiation in the construction of our scheme of family subfamily and generic classification.
We must again gratefully acknowledge our indebtedness to various friends and correspondents for material received and especially to Messrs. P. B. Randolph J. G. Malone and Fred.
L. Button.
Slugs have also been received from J. G. Cooper T. D. A. Cockerell E. H. Ashmun Wm.
H. Dall W. G. Binney and others  and the series in our collection from Henry Hemphill has also been of great service.
1 Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1896 pp.
339350 pi.
xiixiv.
2 Dr. H. Simroth in Zoologisches Centralblatt IV No.
6 March 1897.
Our observations may be grouped under four captions  I Notes on the comparative anatomy of Ariouidce  3 II Classification  III Descriptions of the genera and species and IV Brief directions for collecting and preparing slugs.
I. Anatomy of Ariojnid.
General external features.
 Slugs of the family Arioniclse vary in external form from the typical Limax shape to forms with a conspicuous dorsal hump.
The mantle is generally oval situated anteriorly on the body and completely closed over the shell but in the humped forms it is more posterior and larger extending some distance in front of the shell which is more or less exposed.
The breathing pore is in its right side near the edge connected therewith by a gutter.
The mantle is adnate at the sides and behind but free for some distance in front.
The foot always has longitudinal  pedal furrows  above its lateral edges defining a vertically grooved band or  foot margin.
The pedal furrows meet at the tail at which point there is often a  caudal gland pit or slit developed.
The surface sculpture of the integument of the foot is varied in the several genera and species.
In Ariolimax there are close parallel grooves above becoming oblique and more spaced at the sides and with less conspicuous grooves at right angles to these uniting them.
In Hemphillia Binneya and A nadenus there is a dorsal groove running back from the mantle with oblique grooves branching from it on each side.
In Prophysaon the surface is divided into a reticulation of long diamond shaped meshes by pigmented grooves each mesh being further subdivided.
One species P. cceruleum is an exception having longitudinal grooves as in Ariolimax or Arion.
The sole is distinctly divided into three longitudinal tracts separated by grooves in Anadenulus.
In some other genera Ariolimacince there is an indistinct tripartite division while in others Prophysaon Hemphillia etc.
 this is not recognizable.
Shell.
 The shell varies in form from a moderately well developed spiral Binneya or a convex plate Hemphillia exposed entirely or in part by an orifice in the mantle to a nearly flat wholly internal plate as in most of the other genera.
In some forms of Prophy3 The elementary character of a portion of this paper scarcely calls for apology in view of the fact that the study of slugs in America is still in an embryonic condition.
While in Europe there are many expert observers we have probably not more than four or five men in America who have given especial attention to them.
saon and Avion this plate is largely cuticular the calcareous layer being represented only by scattered angular granules.
In all cases the shellcavity in the mantle is small not much larger than the enclosed shell.
This contrasts strongly with the allied family Philomycicke which has an enormously extended empty shell sack.
General internal topography.
 In most genera of completely limaciform external contour the body from head to tail is excavated into one general body cavity see these Proceedings for 1896 PI.
XIII fig.
lin which the digestive system lies extended with the genitalia lying parallel with or across it the liver or liver and ovotestis extending into the tail.
In genera with a dorsal hump Binneya and Hemphillia that portion of the foot behind the posterior end of the hump is not excavated but solid as in Helix and other spiralshelled genera.
The liver and ovotestis lie in the posterior portion of the cavity of the hump into which the viscera are crowded upward and forward.
Along the floor of the body cavity extending from below the mouth a variable distance backward lies the suboral gland P. A. N. S. 1896 PI.
XIII f. 1 which in some genera is deeply imbedded in the muscular tissue of the sole in others lies lightly attached thereto.
4 In Ariolimax and its immediate allies the genital system including the ovotestis is crowded forward into the anterior half of the animal's length  in Prophysaon and most other genera it lies stretched out at greater length and the albumen gland and ovotestis are decidedly posterior.
Other peculiarities in the arrangement of the organs are noticed below.
Alimentary tract.
 The buccal body in Arionidve is short as in allied families of snails.
The jaw varies from thin and flexible to strong is of the ordinary arched form and is always sculptured anteriorly.
The usual sculpture consists of numerous flattened ribs deuticulating the cutting margin  but in Prophysaon fasciatum the structure is rather a series of narrow hardly overlapping or imbricating plaits much as in some species of the genus Flammnlina of the Endoclontidce.
In P. humile the plaits seem quite lost in a general close vertical striation as in Pyramidula also a genus of Endodontidce.
The radula resembles that of the Endodontidoz.
The central teeth are tricuspid ectocones small.
Lateral teeth bicuspid passing 4 This gland the function of which is to secrete mucus to lubricate the sole in crawling was erroneously interpreted as a buccal retractor muscle by Binney Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 98 second paragraph from top.
gradually into the marginal series by shortening of the basalplates.
Marginals bicuspid with occasionally a tooth with the ectocone bifid.
In the Ariolimacince the inner cusps of the outer lateral and inner marginal teeth are much lengthened and oblique the ectocones much reduced simulating the pseudozonitoid teeth of Flammulina.
Arion also shows this tendency to a much less degree.
In the other genera the cusps of these teeth are short or of moderate length.
All ArionidaB have four longitudinal folds of the intestine 5 as usual in slugs generally  the main divergence being in the comparative length of the folds and the degree of their torsion.
The folds are designated by the initial G with exponents 1 2 3 4 as in PI.
XI fig.
29.
The anterior loop between G 2 and G 3 is caught up by the cephalic artery immediately upon its emergence from the diaphragm PI.
XIV figs.
66 70 72.
In Arion the posterior loop between G 1 and G 2  forming the lower end of the stomach lies posterior to all other intestine folds 6 but in all the other American genera the loop formed by G 3 and G 4 lies behind the stomach.
In Ariolimax Aphallarion and Hespe arion PI.
XI fig.
33 the gut is long and spirally wound.
In Prophysaon PL XI figs.
2830 32 34 Anadenulus fig.
35 Hemphillia fig.
36 and Binneya fig.
31 it is much less twisted spirally.
In the latter two genera the posterior loop formed by G 3 and G 4 is very short on account of the crowding forward of the viscera into the dorsal hump.
In Prouhysaon Anadenulus Hemphillia and Binneya there is no differentiation of the first fold into crop and stomach such as occurs in Ariolimax etc.
Reproductive organs.
 In the Arionidoz there are two main types of genital organs.
In the more primitive and normal type there is a well developed penis provided with a retractor muscle and in every way homologous with the same organ in the Helices and pulmonate snails generally.
This may be seen in Ariolimax Hesperarion PL XII figs.
44 47 Binneya Hemphillia and the Himalayan genus Anadenus.
In the slugs as well as in many other snails the terminal portion of the vas deferens is noticeably enlarged often considerably swollen for a distance above its insertion in the penis see PI.
XII fig.
49 epi. Hemphillia  and these Proceedings 1896 PL XIV fig.
14 epi. Ariolimax.
This enlarged tract has 5 In Aphallarion there is a short loop interposed between the second and third long folds making six folds.
See P. A. N. S. 1S96 pi.
13 f. 4.
6 P. A. N. S. 1896 PI.
13 f. 3. been called the  epiphallus.
In the other type to which Avion Geomalacus Prophysaon and Aphallarion belong the penis has been lost through degeneration and the vas deferens enters the atrium directly its lower course being enlarged or modified in various ways PI.
XIII all figs.
as described above into an epiphallus.
7 The epiphallus is not evertibie has no retractor and does not have the function of a penis.
In it the sperm is lodged in packets or  spermatophores.
These in Hesperarion and Prophysaon are oblong narrow capsules of chitinous texture with a loug slender filament at one end PI.
XII fig.
43.
They may occasionally be found in the spermatheca PI.
XII fig.
48 where the outlines of several are faintly visible through the wall.
In genera with this type of genitalia the vagina and lower portion of the free oviduct are introvertible and assume the function of the penis being provided with a retractor or retractors and in some genera such as A Hon the spermatheca duct also has a retractor muscle.
In forms having the spermatheca duct inserted directly upon the atrium there is of course no vagina and the free lower portion of oviduct alone acts as penis.
8 The peculiar enlargement of the epiphallus in Prophy7 The term epiphallus was originally proposed some years ago by the senior author of this paper for the structure as commonly found in such Hclicidte as the West Indian Caracolus and Pleurodonte species and in most of the larger East Indian and Australian forms in which it occurs associated with a welldeveloped penis as in Hesperarion etc.
It is strictly synonymous with Simroth's term Patronenstrecke.
Mr. Collinge Proc.
Zool Soc.
Lond. 1897 p. 447 proposes to substitute spermduct for what we term epiphallus and restrict the latter name to '' the terminal portion of the vas deferens above the spermduct.
There is of course no objection to the substitution of an English name for the Greek compound but since the term epiphallus has already been used in extensive and numerous works in America England and Germany it seems a little revolutionary to completely alter its significance.
If Mr. Collinge wants a term for the vas deferens above the epiphallus he had better to avoid confusion invent a new one  though what he wants it for is not quite apparent.
8 Arion is a case in point cf.
Collinge Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1897 p. 447.
Geomalacus also is similar.
In Prophysaon and Aphallarion however it is the vagina proper which performs both its usual function and that of an evertibie penis.
We consider Mr. Collinge's statement .
c.  that ''Messrs.
Pilsbry and Vanatta have suggested the term    vagina for what I term freeoviduct  as an inadequate representation of our position due no doubt to our inadvertent enumeration of Arion as one of the genera in which the vagina functions as a penis.
We use the term vagina for the passage below the union of the spermatheca duct with the free oviduct proper see PI.
XIII fig.
57 vag.
 considering such usage justified by its functions.
The term  free oviduct will naturally be retained for the passage from the apex of the vagina when present to the point of approximation of the vas deferens.
Morphologically the vagina may be regarded as an elongated portion of the atrium.
saon is not hollow like a penis but has a small duct only the walls being solid and muscular.
The remaining organs do not differ from their usual structure in Aulacopod pulmonates although the position of the ovotestis is varied in the several genera.
Muscles.
 Only the muscles lying free in the body cavity not those composing the external walls or sole will be considered herein the latter being morphologically similar in Arionidce to the other land snails.
The free muscles belong to two groups  1 retractors of the buccal mass eyepeduncles and tentacles and 2 retractors of the generative organs.
The buccal and tentacle retractors with the foot retractor or retractors in ordinary spiralshelled snails converge and are attached posteriorly or proximally to the columella of the shell.
In Limacid or Arionid slugs the degenerate shell no longer serves as a support for these muscles which are inserted at or near the posterior margin of the diaphragm or floor of the lung  this position approximating pretty closely to the posterior or former columellar margin of the vestigial shell.
In the more primitive genera Binneya Hemphillia Ariolimax etc. the retractors still converge to a point near the middle of the back margin of the lung under the posterior edge of the shell PI.
XIV figs.
65 66 67 69 71.
In the more divergent genera Avion PI.
XIV fig.
72 and Prophysaon PI.
XIV fig.
70 the eye and tentacle retractors have moved from the middle to the outer posterior angles of the diaphragm.
The convergent retractors of Ariolimax and its allies are a heritage from the spiralshelled ancestors of the family although the utility of the convergence is no longer present  while the parallel retractors of Avion etc. are a later modification which resulted in a straight backward pull of each retractor independent of the others and possibly brought about mechanically by the tendency toward separation of the grouped proximal insertions by strains on the converging muscles from their separated distal terminations.
Another muscle more or less closely associated with the buccal and tentacle retractor system is found in Ariolimax Hemphillia and allied genera PI.
XIV figs.
65 66 69.
This is a band passing from near the proximal insertions of buccal and eye retractors forward across the diaphragm to an insertion in the top or right side of the head.
It has been termed the  retensor  by Simroth who observed it in Ariolimax Calijornicus and supposed it to be an aid to the extension of the penis.
We scarcely endorse this view of its function after observing it in several other genera in which it is not inserted near the atrium but in the integument of the head or back above.
It may aid in withdrawing the head beneath the mantle.
Morphologically this muscle is regarded by Simroth as a slip detached from the bodywall.
In this again we are compelled to dissent.
We regard it as a retractor pedis the anterior insertion of which has moved from the sole to the side or upper integument.
Pendiug further investigation into its physiologic function and morphologic equivalency we continue to use Simroth's name  retensor  for this muscle.
The retractors of the genitalia are far less constant in form number and position than those of the buccal mass and eyes.
Their proximal insertions here as in the spiral snails are on the diaphragm or lung floor.
The chief muscles of this system are the penis retractor PI.
XIV figs.
66 71 r.p.
 which is almost invariably inserted on the left side of the diaphragm and the oviduct retractors PI.
XIV fig.
67 vag.
r. which may be inserted either upon the diaphragm or at its posterior border.
The latter are well developed only in those genera in which the oviduct or vagina has assumed the function of a penis.
In Avion and Geomalacus the sperm atheca duct also has a retractor.
The several retractors of the female organs are quite inconstant in position and number being often increased by splitting.
They are not homologous with the penis retractor but have been developed de novo in the genera requiring them.
Another muscle deserving mention is a short band uniting the swollen epiphallus to its peduncle in the genus Prophymon PI.
XIII fig.
57 muse.
This muscle so conceals the true structure of base of the epiphallus that no former authors with the exception of Simroth have correctly described or represented it.
Pallial region.
 Underlying 9 the retractor muscle system is seen a thin but dense membrane perforated only by the aorta and the rectum.
This is the  diaphragm  separating the body cavity from that of the lung indicated in outline in the figures on PI.
XV.
Removing the diaphragm the inner surface of the lung is exposed densely reticulated with blood vessels PI.
XV fig.
73.
The breathing pore or pulmonary aperture PI.
XV fig.
77 p.
a.
is situated at 9 The slug being pinned back downward in the dissecting pan.
In the natural position of the animal it overlies the muscles.
the middle of the right margin of the lung cavity in some genera Ariolimax Aphallarion Hesperarion at the right anterior angle in others Avion Prophysaon.
The rectum lies along the right side posteriorly and opens at the breathiug pore PI.
XV figs.
73 etc. r.
Lying in the lung cavity and often almost filling it is the kidney PI.
XV figs.
76 77 80 etc. k.
It is rounded or squarish in shape thick and attached by its upper side 10 to the roof of the lung cavity around the heart and toward its posterior side.
The kidney appears variously striated or shows branching ducts as in PI.
XV fig.
74.
Its secretion is voided through a slender duct the secondary ureter PI.
XV u. r emerging posteriorly toward the right side running parallel to the rectum and opening near the edge of the breathing pore.
The characters of the ureter are insufficiently shown in the figures.
Behind the middle of the kidney there is an excavation perforating it occupied by the heart PI.
XV a. v..
In some genera both chambers of the heart are exposed below  in others only the ventricle.
Only in Aphallarion are both auricle and ventricle concealed by a thin outer layer of the kidney.
We have occasionally observed a portion of the kidney protruded tonguelike from the breathing pore in drowned specimens of large species.
The morphology of these organs is not greatly varied among the genera of Arionidse and need not be farther considered here.
In defining the families of Pulmonata these organs give characters of great value.
II.
CLASSIFICATION.
The generic characters of slugs in general and of Arionidse in particular as given in the standard manuals and faunal monographs are of the most superficial character.
With a single conspicuous exception 11 we do not know of any writer who has given evidence of much insight into or comprehension of the meaning of the varied internal structure of slugs or who has even suggested a phylogenetic arrangement of the genera of Arionidre.
The complete classification of this and related families cannot be presented here without unduly extending the limits of this paper by including information upon the Old World genera  but so far as the Arionidae are concerned the essential outlines may be gathered 10 Or as the preparation lies its lower side.
11 Need we mention the brilliant author of Die Nachtschnecken der PortugesischAzorischen Fauna
from the table below as all of the subfamilies are represented by American genera.
Analytical key to subfamilies and genera.
I. Retractor muscles of pharynx and tentacles converging backward their posterior insertions contiguous inserted at the posterior edge of the diaphragm.
a. Tail solid the viscera crowded forward and elevated into a dorsal hump or visceral dome  shell partly or wholly exposed  penis present with retractor muscle  ovotestis posterior in the bodycavity  intestine short and simply folded  an accessory  retensor  muscle developed.
Subfamily BINNEYINiE.
b.
Shell exposed spiral Vitrinashaped with differentiated lirate or costulate nepionic whorl  mantle with small lobes on each side of the breathing orifice  sole distinctly tripartite  genitalia with accessory organs the penis retractor inserted on the diaphragm  retensor muscle short slender toward the right side  buccal retractor shortly bifurcate anteriorly.
BlNNEYA.
b' .
Shell partially exposed a flat or convex nonspiral plate  no lobes on the large mantle  sole not in the least tripartite genitalia without accessory organs the penis retractor muscle inserted on the  retensor which is strong wide and to the left of the buccal retractor the latter not bifurcate anteriorly Hemphillia.
a'.
True slugs the foot excavated throughout the bodycavity and viscera extending to the tail  shell small flat not spiral wholly buried  ovotestis anterior to the posterior loop of intestine  intestine long spirally twisted  inner cusps of outer lateral and inner marginal teeth much lengthened  pharynx retractor deeply bifurcate anteriorly.
Subfamily ARIOLIMACLN.E.
b.
A welldeveloped  retensor  muscle present  genitalia with no appendicula the ovotestis anterior in position tail with a plug in the caudal pore.
Large slugs.
c. No penis nor penis retractor muscle the vagina assuming its function  a small epiphallus  right eye retractor not passing between male and female branches of genitalia Aphallarion.
c'.
Penis large introverted apically with welldeveloped retractor muscle  right eye retractor involved between male and female branches of genitalia Ariolimax.
b'.
No retensor muscle an appendicula on the atrium  penis simple with apical papilla and a welldeveloped retractor muscle  caudal pore an open pit  footmargin wide.
Slugs of moderate size Hesperarion.
II.
Retractor muscles of pharynx and tentacles running parallel the latter inserted proximally at the outer posterior angles of the diaphragm in American genera the penis and its retractor muscle wanting the free oviduct or the vagina assuming its function  epiphallus variously modified.
True slugs with completely buried shell plate or vestige and visceral cavity extending into the tail.
Subfamily ARIONINE.
a. Retractor muscle of the pharynx inserted proximally decidedly behind the posterior edge of the diaphragm  intestine long and strongly twisted spirally the stomach or posterior loop formed by G 1 and G 2  lying behind the loop formed by G 3 and G kidney ringlike exposing both chambers of the heart from below.
b. Epiphallus slender tapering distally not abruptly bent or constricted near the atrium  spermatheca duct inserted upon the atrium free oviduct functional as a penis ovotestis extending behind the intestine  external integument longitudinally rugose  sole more or less visibly tripartite  a mucous gland at the tail  breathing pore decidedly anterior to middle of mantle the genital orifice below it Arion.
a'.
Retractor of the pharynx inserted at the posterior edge of the diaphragm  intestine shorter not much twisted spirally the stomach or posterior loop formed by G 1 and G 2  lying far anterior to the posterior loop formed by G 3 and G 4  external genital orifice anterior near right tentacle.
b.
Sole not in the least tripartite  posterior portion of the tail peculiarly modified and capable of selfamputation  kidney with a large excavation exposing both chambers of the heart  epiphallus more or less swollen suddenly constricted and bent near its insertion in the atrium with which it communicates byashort pedicel which is bound to the swollen portion of epiphallus by a muscular band  vagina functional as a penis  ovotestis lying in front of the posterior loop of the gut Peophysaon.
b'.
Sole tripartite the narrow median field defined by longitudinal grooves  tail normal  kidney covering the auricle seen from below  genitalia unknown Anadentjlus.
iii.
descriptions of genera and species.
Genus BINNEYA J. G. Cooper 1863.
Binneya Cooper Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci. Ill p. 62.
Xatitkonyx Crosse  Fischer Joum.
de Conchyl.. XV 1867 p. 223 Moll.
Terr et Fluv.
Mex. I p. 192.
Strebel  Pfeffer Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Fauna Mexikanischer Laudund Siisswasser Conch vlien Theil IV p. 26 1880.
Somewhat sluglike with elevated subspiral visceral hump and external shell subcentral on the back  mantle broadly produced beyond the shell not reflexed over it at edges  breathing pore submedian or behind middle of right margin of mantle a small rounded left and somewhat larger right cervical mantle lobe on each side of it genital orifice behind the right tentacle foot radially grooved and reticulate above the footmargin narrow  pedal grooves deep without a tail pore  sole tripartite the areas separated by longitudinal grooves shell Vitrinashaped with the first nepionic whorl distinctly demarked from the following and strongly sculptured.
Viscera elevated into the dorsal hump the body cavity not extending back of it into the tail which is solid.
Jaw arcuate with numerous ribs denticulating the basal margin.
Radula with 28128 to 31131 teeth in B. notabilis 32132 in B. cordovan us the rachidian teeth tricuspid laterals bicuspid the ectocones small  marginal teeth bicuspid the inner cusps moderately long sometimes bifid.
Intestinal tract PI.
XI fig.
31 short anterior loop formed by G 2 and G s somewhat twisted posterior loop of G 3 and G straight and very short.
Liver occupying posterior portion of dorsal hump and spire of shell.
Genital system with welldeveloped penis continued beyond insertion of retractor in a short epiphallus.
Spermatheca with a long duct or one of quite moderate length  an appendicula near the base of vagina or penis and according to Pfeffer two longstalked globose netted vaginal accessory appendages.
Muscle system PI.
XIV fig.
65 Ariolimacine.
Buccal and eye retractors converging posteriorly contiguous at their proximal insertions.
A  retensor  arises from the roof of visceral cavity slightly anterior to proximal insertion of retractors and extends anteriorly to the right side near the lower edge of mantle where it is inserted in the integument.
Penis retractor inserted in the left posterior region of the visceral dome.
Distribution Santa Barbara Island off California Guadalupe Island off Lower California B. notabilis and States of Vera Cruz and Chiapas Mexico B. Salleana Cordovana Sumichrasti Chiapensis.
The chief differences between Binneya and Xanthonyx seem to be that in Binneya the nepionic shell is spirally lirate in Xanthonyx radially plicate  in Xanthonyx there is a small caudal horn in Binneya none and there are certain discrepancies in the details of genitalia as described by Binuey Crosse and Fischer and Strebel and Pfeffer.
These may perhaps be in part merely specific variations and in part errors of observation.
On account of the sexually immature condition of our specimens we unfortunately cannot verify the published accounts.
The description of the anatomy of Xanthonyx Salleanus given by Strebel and Pfeffer seems to be worthy of confidence.
Binneya agrees with Hemphillia in the solid tail the viscera being crowded forward into the dorsal hump  in the exposed shell short and simple gut the general arrangement of muscles especially the possession of a  retensor   in the well developed penis and general system of external reticulation.
It differs from Hemphillia mainly in the better developed spiral shell the differently placed retensor muscle and penis retractor the presence of an appendicula and the distinctly tripartite sole.
That the two genera are closely allied is so obvious as to justify the supposition that Hemphillia descended from a slug very similar to the existing Binneya.
Cryptostrakon W. G. B. is probably allied to Binneya but the muscles genitalia and alimentary canal are unknown and the types though in alcohol have been dried.
B. notabilis J. G. Cooper.
PI.
XIV figs.
63 64 65  PI.
XVI figs.
87 88.
Binneya notabilis J. G.
Coop. Proc Cal.
Acad.
Sci. III p. 62 figs.
15 in text.
Tryon Amer.
Journ.
Conch. II p. 244 pi.
3 f. 4 copied from Cooper.
W. G. Binney Land and Freshwater Shells of N. A. I p. 68 f. 112.
Terr.
Moll. V p. 245 f. 141143 pi.
V f. K teeth pi.
xi f. B genitalia.
Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 10S f. 7174.
Fourth Supplement to Terr.
Moll.
V p. 184 pi.
1 f. 9 shell.
Alcoholic specimens measure about 10 mm.
long to double that length  color buffgray with rather large black dots mainly scattered along the radial grooves of the foot and in a line above the pedal grooves the mantle maculated with black.
Surface with rather coarse radial grooves and sparse reticulation  a fine groove median on tail above not extending to the end  foot margin narrow closely and evenly crenate  sole unicolored grayish rugose and distinctly tripartite.
Jaw PI.
XVI fig.
87 and dentition PI.
XVI fig.
88 described above.
Digestive and muscular anatomy described above.
Our specimens were sexually immature so that the description of genitalia is taken from Binney Crosse Fischer Strebel and Pfeffer.
Distribution  Santa Barbara Island off California  Guadalupe Island off Lower California.
Genus HEMPHILLIA Bland  Binney 1872.
Hemphillia Bland  Binney Ann.
Lye.
N. H. of N. Y. X p. 208 1872 type H. glandidosa B.
 B. Sluglike with the mantle conspicuously elevated in alcoholic specimens into a nonspiral visceral hump the shell a slightly convex nonspiral plate partially exposed its edges buried in the mantle which is very broadly produced beyond the shell on all sides.
Breathing pore behind the middle of right margin of mantle.
Genital orifice behind the right tentacle.
Foot radially grooved and reticulate above the foot margin wide conspicuous  pedal furrows deep meeting in a mucous pore at the tad or without tail gland.
Sole not in the least tripartite.
Viscera elevated into the dorsal hump the bodycavity not extending back of it into the tail which is solid.
Jaw low wide with about 14 low wide ribs with shallow intervals Radula with tricuspid central bicuspid lateral and marginal teeth the inner cusp mesocone of the latter long.
Intestinal tract short crowded forward but little twisted  G angularly bent forming a sort of fifth fold PL XI fig.
36.
Genital system with well developed penis containing penispapilla the retractor terminal passing into an epiphallus.
Spermatheca on a short duct inserted in atrium  ovotestis at posterior end of visceral cavity immediately under hind end of shell.
Muscle system Ariolimacine the eye and buccal retractors converging posteriorly contiguous at their proximal insertions buccal retractor spreading where it enters buccal mass not bifurcate.
A broad  retensor  muscle arises at the posterior margin of diaphragm just left of the retractor insertions and runs forward as far as the front insertion of the mantle PI.
XIV fig.
69 ret..
Penis retractor inserted proximally on the ventral face of the retensor.
Right eye retractor passing between male and female branches of the genitalia.
Lung radially striate rather than reticulate.
Kidney a broad squarish leaf free for the greater part adnate dorsally around the heart PI.
XV fig.
78.
Distribution  Oregon Washington and western Idaho.
Hemphillia shares with all Ariolimacinoz the primitive arrangement of the retractor system.
Like all of this subfamily except Hesperarion it possesses that anomalous muscle called by Simroth the  retensor which we hold to be a modified retractor pedis.
Apart from these important characteristics of the musculature there are profound differences from Ariolimax and its allies  the viscera are crowded forward and upward into a visceral hump under the mantle behind which the foot is solid as in the spiralshelled snails the shell is comparatively large and imbedded only at the edges in the mantle which exposes a considerable part of it  and the intestinal tract while fundamentally of the same type is considerably shortened and simplified.
In all of these departures from the normal slug structure Hemphillia is akin to Binneya but it is a more advanced evolutionproduct in that it has lost the spiral torsion of the visceral mass and shell still retained by Binneya as a reminiscence of long past ancestors.
Among the secondary characters separating Hemphillia from Binneya may be mentioned the tripartite sole narrow foot margin and small mantle lobes of Binneya the other genus having no division of the sole no mantle lobes and a wide foot margin.
Internally Binneya has an appendicula the penis retractor is inserted on the lung floor and the retensor muscle is weak while in Hemphillia there is no appendicula and the penis retractor is inserted on the surface of the very broad and strong retensor.
The digestive tract is considerably alike in the two genera.
Key to species of Hemphillia.
a. Mantle papillose tail acutely keeled above terminating in a fleshy horn which overhangs the caudal pore  pedal furrows scarcely rising at their union behind.
Penis with a bifid internal process inserted at the apex of the cavity  spermatheca globular on a comparatively slender duct penis retractor muscle inserted upon the epiphallus H. glandulosa.
a. Mantle slightly rugose not papillose  no horn at tail  pedal grooves abruptly rising behind meeting over the tail.
Penis with a simple fleshy process inserted at the base of the cavity  spermatheca small with a very stout duct  penis retractor muscle apical on penis H. camelvs.
H. glandulosa Wand  Binney.
PI.
IX figs.
12 PI.
XII figs.
49 50.
Hemphillia glandulosa Bland  Binney Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist of N. Y.  X p. 209 pi.
ix f. 1 3 exterior 5 shell 1517 teeth Terr.
Moll. V p. 248 f. 144140 pi.
y f. J teeth pi.
xii f. J K genitalia .
Man Amer.
Land Shells p. Ill f. 7577 78.
Supplement toT.
M. V pi.
iii f. H .
Third Supplement p. 211 pi.
iv f. D. Pilsbry  Vanatta Nautilus XI p. 44.
Color in alcohol blackish above or yellowish with black spots  the edge of mantle sides of foot below mantle footmargin and sole yellowish  shell yellow.
Mantle extension densely papillose in front of the shell and at sides.
Breathing pore median on the right side.
Genital orifice near right tentacle a groove running from it toward the breathing pore.
Foot obliquely grooved and rather coarsely reticulated pinched up into a high acute keel posteriorly this keel declining and terminating in a prominent hornlike process at the end.
Footmargin rather wide vertically grooved as usual.
Pedal furrows scarcely rising at the tail meeting in a caudal pore immediately below the  horn.
Sole transversely wrinkled the wrinkles bent backward mesially as in Prophysaon.
Length 10 to 13 mm.
Shell convex with yellow cuticle thin calcareous layer and posterior nucleus.
Genitalia PI.
XII figs.
49 50 with the penis enormously swollen its lumen filled by a bifid fleshy imperforate corrugated body 16 attached to one side above  epiphallus moderately stout longer than the penis bearing the retractor muscle near its base.
Spermatheca globular large borne on a duct of its own length inserted upon the atrium.
Type locality Astoria Oregon Hemphill  also in Washington atChehalis and according to Binney Olympia and Gray's Harbor.
Part of several of the references given above apply to H. camelus Mr. Binney having included that species in glandulom.
The latter is herein restricted to slugs with papillose mantle and caudal horn as originally indicated by Bland and Binney.
Besides the conpsicuous external differences noticed under H. camelus the two species differ markedly in the genitalia.
In H. glandulosa the fleshy process in the penis is bifid and attached to the side at the apex of the cavity.
In H. camelus the process is simple and attached basally.
The position of the penisretractor and the shape of the spermatheca and its duct differ in the two forms.
H. camelus Pilsbry  Vanatta.
PI.
IX figs.
3 4  PI.
XII figs.
41 42 PI.
XVI fig.
85.
Henphillia camelus Pilsbrf  Vanatta Nautilus XI p. 44 August 1897.
Color in alcohol pale grayishbuff closely speckled and maculated with blackish on the mantle and tail more sparsely and lightly so on the anterior half of the foot the sole without dark markings.
On the mantle the spots form two more or less distinct longitudinal bands.
Surface of the mantle somewhat rugose not papillate  breathing pore behind the middle.
Genital opening near right tentacle.
Foot with a short dorsal groove behind mantle obliquely descending grooves with sparse reticulation on the sides of tail and coarse reticulation below mantle laterally  the head longitudinally closely grooved and reticulate  sole as in H. glandulosa  tail somewhat keeled above near the end without any appearance of a caudal  horn.
Footmargin wide grooved vertically  pedal furrows abruptly and conspicuously rising at the tail with no noticeable caudal pore at their union at least in alcoholic examples but in one specimen there seems to be a transverse slit under the pedal groove with a vertical gutter below it Tshaped.
In another nothing of this appears.
Length about 28 mm.
Genitalia PI.
XII fig.
41 42 with a very large penis its cavity filled by a large transversely corrugated solid fleshy body attached at the base of the penis and a small tonguelike body arising close to the entrance of the epiphallus fig.
42.
The latter is longer than in H. glandulosa and the retractor muscle is inserted at its root.
Spermatheca small its duct very stout inserted upon the atrium.
Shell slightly convex longoval with clear yellow cuticle thin calcareous layer and posterior nucleus the surface lightly marked with growth lines.
Length 8 width 5 mm.
Jaw low wide with about 14 low broad ribs separated by narrow intervals.
Radula  Marginals with rather long inner cusps PI.
XVI fig.
85.
Old Mission Idaho Henry Hemphill.
This species has a proportionally smaller shell than H. glandulosa a longer less compressed and less carinated tail with no trace of a caudal horn and no perceptible caudal gland  the mantle is not papillose the pedal furrows rise abruptly at the tail uniting over it and the genitalia differ in important respects as noticed under the description of H. glandulosa.
Genus ARIOLIMAX Morch 1860.
Ariolimax Morch Malak.
Blatter VI p. 110.
Pilsbry  Vanatta Proc Acad.
N. S.
Phila. 1896 p. 342.
To the generic characters described and implied in our former paper the following may be added  Tail gland PI.
XV fig.
81 a peculiar triangular mass of tissue in alcoholic specimens deeply fissured transversely.
Muscle system PI.
XIV fig.
QQ A. columbianus having the buccal and eye retractors converging posteriorly their proximal insertions contiguous at the posterior edge of the diaphragm.
Buccal retractor very deeply bifurcate.
An accessory muscle the  retensor arises with the retractor group to the left of the median line and passing forward is inserted in the integument of the neck on the right side or above.
Lung PI.
XV fig.
73 A. columbianus the kidney removed and kidney PI.
XV fig.
74 A. columbianus as usual in Arionidce.
Auricle concealed by kidney ventricle fig.
73 74 v exposed.
Subsequent studies support the conclusion reached in our former paper that Ariolimax is more closely allied to Aphallarion than to any other known genus.
Genus APHALLARION Pilsbry  Vanatta 1896.
Aphallarion P.  V. Proc Acad.
N. S.
Phila. 1896 p. 348.
Tail pore as in Ariolimax.
Muscle system PI.
XIV fig.
67 substantially like Ariolimax in arrangement of the buccal and eye retractors except that the right eye retractor is not involved between the  and 9 branches of genitalia   retensor  inserted nearer the median line anteriorly.
Penis retractor wanting but several vaginal retractors fig.
67 vag.
r. arise from the diaphragm.
Pallial region as in Ariolimax except that the kidney is larger and both auricle and ventricle are concealed therein PI.
XV fig.
76.
Aphallarion is intimately related to Ariolimax from which it differs in the absence of a penis and its retractor in having the right eye retractor free from and to the left of the genitalia and in having both chambers of the heart embedded in the kidney.
No other genus is nearly allied.
To our former account it may be added that Mr. Wetherby informs us that his Ariolimax Hecoxi from Santa Cruz is specifically the same as our A. Buttoni.
As he remembers the genital system it corresponded with that of our species.
Since A. Hecoxi was not described this will in no way affect nomenclature but is of interest as removing a doubtful species from slug literature and extending the geographic range of Aphallarion.
Genus HESPERARION Siuiroth 1891.
Hesperarion Simroth Malak.
Blatter n. F.  XI Heft 2 p. 109.
Type Ariolimax niger Coop.
Slugs with the usual small anterior shieldlike mantle completely buried nonspiral shell plate and long bodycavity excavated to end of tail.
Breathing pore somewhat behind middle of right mantle edge.
Genital orifice distant from tentacle below the anterior margin of mantle.
Foot with longitudinal grooves becoming oblique on the sides the foot margin moderate pedal furrows deep meeting in a very conspicuous subtriangular posteriorly guttered tail pit.
Sole rather indistinctly tripartite the areas not defined by longitudinal grooves.
Jaw with coarse ribs.
Radula with the usual tricuspid central and bicuspid lateral teeth ectocones small  marginals with very long oblique cusps the ectocone minute or vestigial.
Intestinal tract PI.
XI fig.
33 much as in Ariolimax.
G 1 indistinctly divided into crop and stomach making a half revolution  G 2 describing a complete revolution in the opposite direction G 3 another reversed and G 4 still another revolution parallel to G 2 .
Posterior loop formed by G 3 and G 4 lying behind that formed by G 1 and G 2  as in Ariolimachm generally.
Genital system PI.
XII figs.
4448 having a well developed penis with terminal retractor and epiphallus lumen with plicate walls fig.
45 and a large apical penis papilla figs.
45 46.
Atrium hearing a vermiform appendicula with swollen base fig.
44 ap  fig.
47 ap.
Spermatheca borne on a short basally swollen duct.
Spermatophores fig.
43 x H cbitinous elongate with flagellumlike extension at one end.
Ovotestis separated from albumen gland lying on the right side under G 3  to the right of posterior end of stomach PI.
XI fig.
33 ot..
Muscle system PI.
XIV fig.
71 Ariolimacine in having the retractors converging posteriorly their proximal insertions contiguous  buccal retractor deeply bifurcate.
No  retensor.
Penis retractor short broad inserted in the left anterior portion of the lung floor or diaphragm fig.
71 r.p..
Lung as usual  kidney very large PI.
XV fig.
77 k.
Only the ventricle exposed.
Distribution  Middle portion of California in the counties lying near and below San Francisco Bay west of the Sierra Nevada.
Externally H.espterarion is like Ariolimax and Aphallarion except in the structure of the caudal pore which is a deep open pit in this genus while in the others it is filled by a mass of spongy tissue.
The jaw teeth intestine pallial region and musculature of the three genera are practically identical in their main features except that Hesperarion totally lacks a  retensor muscle.
In the genitalia are found further important differences.
The ovotestis is not packed adjacent to the albumen gland anteriorly as in Ariolimax and Aphallarion but is carried back to a more posterior position among the hind loops of the intestine and surrounded by the liver PI.
XI fig.
33 ot..
The penis externally similiar to that of Ariolimax is of the usual simple structure not invaginated and the atrium bears an enigmatic organ of unknown function our ignorance of which is veiled behind the term appendicula.
12 This is wanting in other Arionidce with the exception of Binneya the most primitive genus of the family.
The species of Hesperarion are dimorphic like Ariolimax columbianus having a spotted and an immaculate form.
12 This convenient term was first used by Dr. von Ihering in his  Morphologie und Systematik des Genitalapparates von Helix.
The appendicula inserted low on the vagina or on the atrium is not homologous with the elongated sack found in Panda Strophocheilus etc. associated with the spermatheca.
The latter probably serves the purpose of an accessory spermatheca.
H. niger J. G. Cooper.
PI.
IX figs.
5 6j PI.
XI fig.
33 PI.
XII figs.
4348 PI.
XIV fig.
71.
Ariolimax niger J. G. Cooper Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1872 p. 147 pi.
3 f. B 14.
W. G. Binney Terr.
Moll.
V p. 234 f. 133 caudal pore  pi.
v f. D F teeth.
 pi.
xii f. F genitalia  Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 100 f. 64 Terr.
Moll v Third Supplement Bull.
M. C. Z. XIX no.
4 p. 212 pi.
v f. A I C D external aspect and caudal pore.
Cockerell Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 6 vi p. 278 279.
Hesperarion niger Simroth Malak.
Blatter n. F.  xi p. 109119 pi.
1 f. 714.
Ariolimax Andersoni J .
G.
Coop.
 W. G Binney Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y. xi p. 182 pi.
xii f. 9 genitalia pi.
xviii f. G teeth  Terrestr.
Moll.
V p. 235 f. 135 136 pi.
xii f. E genitalia pi.
v f. G teeth.
Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 132 f. 66 67.
Second Suppl.
T. M. V p. 43.
Third Suppl.
p. 212 pi.
v f. F. Not Arion Andersoni J. G Cooper.
Exterior Upper surface iu alcoholic specimens smoky brownblack above slightly lighter grayblack laterally unicolored or dappled with black ragged spots  sole grayblack with black spots scattered along the inner edge of the lateral areas.
Integument obliquely longitudinally grooved not much reticulated.
Mantle with the lung pore submedian  genital orifice some distance behind the right tentacle caudal pore conspicuously large and deep with a cleft extending to the tail  sole indistinctly tripartite.
Length in alcohol 3045 mm.
The genitalia in two individuals dissected show considerable variation.
In one PI.
XII fig.
44 the penis is large nearly its entire length constricted at base this being from a maculated individual like PI.
IX figs.
5 6 from Santa Clara Cal.
In the other a typical niger in coloring the penis is slender below swollen above PI.
XII fig.
47.
We hope to receive further specimens and ascertain the limits and significance of variation iu these organs.
In one specimen Mus.
no.
71078 there were thirteen spermatophores PI.
XII fig.
43 in the spermatheca.
Jaw with eleven wide ribs.
Radula agreeing with Ariolimax in the long oblique cusps of the marginal teeth.
Cooper's types were from the neighborhood of San Francisco Bay.
Specimens are before us from Bolinas Haywards Santa Clara Stevens' Creek Canyon Santa Cruz range 900 feet altitude and near San Jose.
Binney gives the localities Santa Rosa Healdsburg Sonoma Co. and for the synonymous Ariolimax Andersoni mountains of Alameda Co.
The general range therefore covers the Coast and Bay counties from Sonoma to Santa Cruz.
Professor Cockerell defines a colorform maculatus as follows   This much resembles A. hemphilli var.
maculatus but is larger and stouter and has the lateral areas of the sole marbled as in niger.
Two specimens were received from Dr. Cooper who found them at Haywards Cal.
The maculated form is shown in our figures.
It seems more abundant than the spotless slug but in our series it is difficult to separate the two as some which appear spotless often show a few macula
on close examination.
H. Hemphilli W. G. Binney.
Ariolimax Hemphilli W '.
G. Binney Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y. XI p. 181 pi.
xii f. 7 genitalia pi.
xviii f. H teeth 1875  Terrestr.
Moll. V p. 235 f. 134 pi.
v f. H teeth pi.
xii f. G genitalia  Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 102 f. 65.
Third Suppl.
Terr.
Moll. v p. 212 pi.
v f. G. Cockerell Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 6 vi p. 278.
Ariolimax Hemphilli var.
maculatus Ckll.
in Binney Third Supplement to Terr.
Moll. V p. 212 pi.
v f. B.
Since its first publication in 1875 nothing material has been added to our knowledge of this species.
Its generic position is uncertain.
The desirability of procuring additional specimens in order to place the form upon a better basis will be evident.
The type locality is Niles Station Alameda Co. California.
Professor Cockerell's colorform maculatus has been figured in Binuey's Third Supplement but not before described.
Small spotted hemphilli found by Dr. Cooper at Haywards.
When alive as I learn from Dr. Cooper they are reddish the spotted variety of niger being gray  in alcohol both appear gray.
They agree with hemphilli W. G. B. in the genitalia and differ also from niger in their more slender form and immaculate sole of foot.
Indeed comparing them with typical niger they appear fundamentally distinct in every way but the var.
maculatus of niger is strangely intermediate  just what one might expect a niger X hemphilli hybrid to be.
Ckll.
ms..
Genus ARION Ferussac.
Conspicuous in the European fauna for the number of species and individuals and for the large size and frequently brilliant coloring of some forms this genus is represented in America by one or two species introduced from Europe and still very local in distribution.
They have not yet exhibited the tendency to spread characteristic of the introduced Limaces.
Arion hortensia Fer.
PL XV figs.
79 82 83 PI.
XIV fig.
72.
Numerous specimens of this species were collected in March and April 1896 near or in a greenhouse in Seattle Washington by Mr. P. B. Randolph.
A specimen much contracted in alcohol is here figured with the retractor system and pallial organs.
As preserved they measure 15 to 20 mm.
in length  groundcolor above dirty whitish with a conspicuous blackish stripe along each side of mantle and of the foot behind it the back with a broad median bluish or slateblack band tapering posteriorly often only faintly indicated  sole light yellow.
In other specimens from Poughkeepsie N. Y. the region between the longitudinal black bauds on mantle and sides is speckled and maculated with black.
As this species is an immigrant from Europe where it is well known and has been repeatedly investigated anatomically we omit a detailed description and synonymy.
The coarsely longitudinally rugose integument anterior position of the breathing orifice and posterior position of the genital orifice below the other readily distinguish Avion from all native American slugs.
Arion sp.
W. G. Binney describes a slug referred by him to Avion fuscus Miiller from Boston Mass.
Mr. Cockerell considers it likely that the figure in Terrestrial Mollusks PI.
LX1V fig.
1 copied in Man.
Amer.
L. Shells fig.
502 represents A. subfuscus.
Whether more than one species of Avion occurs in America will remain doubtful until further examination of the Bostonian slug can be made.
Genus PROPHYSAON Bland  Binney 1873.
Prophysaon Bland  Binney Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y. X 1873 p. 293 type P. hemphilli B.
 B. Cockerell Ann Mag.
N. H. 6 VI p. H77279 and Nautilus XI p. 77 key to species.
 W. J. Raymond Nautilus.
IV p 6 mutilation of tail.
Phenacarion Cockerell Nautilus III p. 127 March 1890 type Arion foliolatus Gld.
The Conchologist II p. 118.
Slugs with anterior shieldlike mantle in which the flat nonspiral shell is completely buried the breathing pore in front of the middle of its right margin  genital orifice behind and near right tentacle.
Foot reticulated the areolae subdivided except in ccevuleum  the coloration in two or three longitudinal bands on mantle or mantle and foot or monochromatic.
Footmargin wide pedal furrows deep with no noticeable caudal pore or only a small slit in P. foliolatum hardly or not visible in alcoholic specimens.
Sole not in the least tripartite.
Tail usually showing an oblique constriction at from the posterior third to sixth of the animal's length marking the place where selfamputation takes place.
Body cavity extending into the foot but frequently not to its end  genital system and gut lying side by side and extending about the same distance backward PI.
XI fig.
34 P. fasciatum .
Jaw weak flexible flatly ribbed plaited or striate.
Rachidian teeth tricuspid laterals bicuspid the ectocones small  marginals formed by shortening of the basalplates bicuspid the mesocone moderate or short ectocone small occasionally bifid.
Intestinal tract PI.
XI figs.
28 P. Andersoni  fig.
30 P. coeruleum fig.
32 P. foliolatum and fig.
34 P. fasciatum with four well developed sigmoid folds  no division of G 1 into crop and stomach  anterior loop formed by G 2 and G 3 twisted onehalf revolution  posterior loop of G 3 and G 4 long extending far behind stomach and twisted less than a complete revolution.
Genital system PI.
XII figs.
3740 and PI.
XIII all figs.
not crowded forward no penis nor retractor epiphallus either very stout cylindrical and fleshy with minute perforation or more slender long and tapering distally  in either case suddenly narrowing near the atrium to a minute duct which enters the atrium by a short tapering peduncle in close contact with which the enlarged epiphallus is held by a muscle seen in fig.
57 of PI.
XIII muse and fig.
39 of PI.
XII.
Duct of spermatheca short  spermatophores as in Hesperarion.
Ovotestis PI.
XI fig.
34  lying anterior to the posterior loop of gut between its upper and lower folds adjacent to the albumen gland.
Muscle system PI.
XIV fig.
70 with the eye retractors inserted at the outer posterior angles of the diaphragm as in Arion buccal retractor inserted at the posterior edge of diaphragm to the right of the middle bifurcate distally.
Right eye retractor passing between branches of genitalia.
Pallial region PI.
XV fig.
80 much as in Arion breathing pore anus and nephridial orifice at the right anterior angle of the pallial cavity  kidney ringlike excavated to show both chambers of the heart other features as usual in the family.
Distribution  Middle California to British Columbia eastward in Idaho to the Cceur d'Alene Mts.
Prophjsaon stands rather isolated in the Arionince.
The only native American genus approaching it is Anadenulus but this differs in several important particulars to be mentioned below.
The Palaarctic Arion is like Prophysaon in the pallial region but differs markedly in 1 the removal of the buccal retractor insertion backward from the diaphragm edge 2 the complex twisting of the gut and the posterior position of the stomach see these Proceedings 1896 pi.
13 f. 3  3 the simpler form of the epiphallus and well developed retractor muscles of vagina and spermatheca and 4 the normally constructed tail.
There are various other minor differences  but upon the whole the American genus is less divergent than the European from the primitive forms of the family in its musculature more divergent in the tail structure and epiphallus.
In Arion shell reduction has progressed rather further at least in the typical forms.
Geomalacus a lateral branch from the Avion stem is even more remote from the American genus.
The Himalayan genus Anadenus with which Fischer unites Prophysaon as a subgenus differs conspicuously in possessing a well developed penis with retractor and externally in the extreme narrowness of the foot margin and the tripartite sole.
The selfamputation of the tail in Prophysaon has been described by Henry Hemphill 13 and W. J. Raymond  u while Simroth has noticed and figured the appearance of the tail in alcoholic specimens before amputation.
Mr. Raymond writes as follows  In August 1888 I collected on one occasion about a dozen examples of Prophysaon Andersoni J. G.
Cp. near the San Jose reservoir above Lexington Santa Clara County.
While taking measurements of the living specimens before putting them into alcohol I noticed in several a contraction about twothirds of the length from the head.
This appeared as an indented line completely encircling the body.
Upon handling the slugs to examine this phenomenon more closely the line became deeper and in the case of two of the specimens the tail dropped off almost as readily as the ray of the socalled 'brittle' starfish.
Nearly all full grown alcoholic specimens of P. Andersoni foliolatum and cceruleum show a well defined impressed line around the tail or occasionally the tail has actually been amputated as in the specimen of the lastnamed species figured on Plate IX figs.
7 to 11.
Dissection shows that the body cavity does not extend beyond the point of excision or but little beyond  the remainder of the tail being occupied by very spongy vesicular connective tissue.
We have not seen Prophysaon alive and observations are still lacking upon some interesting points which could probably be sup13 Nautilus III p. 126 footnote Fourth Supplement to Terr.
Moll.
V p. 1S2 14 Nautilus IV p. 7. plied by keeping slugs in captivity.
Does regeneration of the lost member take place and if so is the renewed tail structurally like the amputated one or does loss of the tail result eventually in death 
What animals persecute Prophysaon f Observations upon these questions might go a long way toward explaining the present utility of tail amputation though they may not indicate the mode of its origin.
Without knowledge of the final consquences of amputation to the slug or what its natural enemies are speculation upon tail excision is idle.
In an analogous case now well known that of Helicarion in the Philippine Islands Semper 15 states that every species he examined  possessed the singular property which many lizards have  particularly the Geckos  of shedding their tail when they are seized somewhat roughly at a little way behind the shell.
This they do by whisking the tail up and down with extraordinary rapidity almost convulsively till it drops off if the creature is held by the tail it immediately falls to the ground where it easily hides among the leaves.
If it is laid flat on the hand the rapid wagging movement is strong enough to raise the body with a spring into the air so that it falls over on to the ground.
These snails at first constantly escaped me and my collectors in this way and not unfrequently we had nothing but the tail left in our hands.
According to Guilding's observations the same peculiarity of parting with the hinder prolongation of the foot characterizes the West Indian snail Stenopus.
I ascertained by further investigation that in a free state of nature such selfmutilation not unfrequently occurs for about a hundred specimens of Helicarion gutta which is extremely common in the northeast of Luzon I found perhaps ten individuals that had shed their tails or to speak more accurately the hinder end of the foot and had the stumps partly healed or the foot to some extent grown again.
Now this hinder portion of the foot is the most conspicuous part of the snail's body and it may be supposed that it is in most cases the part first seized by the reptiles or birds that prey upon them  but startled by the escape of the body they would soon learn to recognize by the form of the tail those species which were capable by this selfamputation of depriving them of the larger and probably the only valuable portion of the prey.
In this way the species of the genus Helicarion can escape the pursuit of their enemies better than they otherwise could on account of their exposed mode of life.
15 Animal Life Chapter XII.
Whether Seruper's plausible supposition be held to sufficiently explain the selfmutilation of Helicarion or not it seems to us that the slowness of the process of amputation in Prophysaon precludes the idea that it is a means of escape from birds which in any case are as likely to seize the slug by the head or middle as by the tail.
If molluscan foes are in question the time consumed in amputation is of less moment and it might be worth while to imprison Prophysaon with Circinaria alias Selenites and Macrocyclis which is the most rapacious snail of the West Coast.
The suggestion is offered for what it may be worth  and the whole subject referred to the enterprising and enthusiastic naturalists of the West for observation and experiment.
The species of Prophysaon fall into three very distinct groups two of them containing but one species each the other including P. Andersoni Coop plus Hemphilli B.
 B. Padficum and flavum Ckll.
 and P. folio latum Gld.
including Phenacarion Hemphilli W. G.
B..
As the synonymy indicates these two species are excessively variable.
In the case of Andersoni a great extent of territory is inhabited by the several forms and typical form of the species and much more extensive series than we have yet seen must be brought together before a final decision upon the limits of variation and the definable subspecies if any exist can be made.
Our study of them is based wholly upon alcoholic slugs gathered from localities hundreds of miles apart and it is to be expected that richer collections may modify and certainly will amplify the conclusions reached.
Our general results so far as synonymy is concerned do not differ radically from those attained by Professor Cockerel whose synopsis of the species is given below.
16 16  1.
Epiphallus stout sausageshaped.
A pale dorsal stripe.
a. Ochreous species P. Padficum vacJlavumY b. Grayish species .
.
.
.
P. Andersoni inch Hemphilli. 
2.
Epiphallus banana shaped but tapering at the end.
No pale dorsal stripe .
.
PccBruleum Epiphallus rather slender flattish tapering somewhat curved.
Shell 2 mm.
long narrow white shiny.'
'3 Epiphallus slender gradually tapering to a point.
Body with a blackish dorsal band.
a. Jaw ribbed P. fasciaium.
b. Jaw only striate .
.
.
P. humile.
Until more material of Aumieis seen it cannot be made sure that the jawcharacter is a specific one.
 For some further details of Professor Cockerell's views see A r atitilus Nov. 1897 pp.
7779.
The banana or sausage shape of the epiphallus we find to be a variable character not constant specifically.
Key to species of Prophysaon alcoholic specimens.
a.
Surface with coarse diamondmeshed reticulation the meshes finely subdivided  mantle banded or spotted  footmargin moderate or wide.
b. Mantle free about twothirds of the distance back to breathing orifice PI.
X fig.
17.
Epiphallus stout cylindrical bluntly rounded at both ends vas deferens extremely long convoluted in a snarl usually a pale dorsal line on the tail  jaw coarsely ribbed.
c. Outer lateral and inner marginal teeth with blunt and rather short cusps.
Length 5080 mm.
in alcohol the posterior third or more being marked off by an oblique constriction and subject to selfamputation P. folio latum.
c'.
Outer lateral and inner marginal teeeth with long acutely pointed cusps.
Length 2535 mm.
in alcohol the posterior part subject to amputation shorter P. Andersoni.
b'.
Mantle free as far back as the breathing orifice PI.
X fig.
27.
Epiphallus slender gradually tapering distally  vas deferens not elongated  back with a wide red or pale area enclosing a darker median band and bounded on each side by dark lateral bands or entire slug dusky jaw closely finely plaited or striated P. humile and var.
fasciatum.
a'.
Surface longitudinally closely grooved above obliquely and less closely so at the sides the grooves occasionally joined by short transverse lines  footmargin very narrow P. cozruleum.
P. Andersoni J. G. Cooper.
PI.
X figs.
1822  PI.
XI fig.
28 29  PL XIII figs.
5962 PL XVI figs.
92 93.
Arion 
Andersonii J .
G. Cooper Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1872 p. 148 pi.
3 f. F 15.
Not Prophysaon Andersoni J '.
G. Cooper W G. Binney Second Supplement to T. M. V p. 42  P. fasciatum.
Prophysaon Andersoni J. G. Cooper W. G. Binney Third Supplement to Terr.
Moll. V p. 208 pi.
iii f. 1 pi.
vii f. C pi.
i f. 3 dentition pi.
ix f. I J surface reticulation.
Fourth Supplement p. 179.
Prophysaon Andersoni J. G. Cooper Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc 1879 p. 288.
Cockerell Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 6 VI p. 278 Nautilus XI p. 77 78 includes P. Hemphilli.
Raymond Nautilus IV p. 6.
Prophysaon Andersoni var.
tnarmoratum CklL The Conchologist II p. 72.
P. Andersoni var '.
suffusum CklL The Conchologist II p. 118.
Prophysaon Hemphilli Bland  Binn. Ann.
Lye.
N. H. of N. Y. X p. 295 pi.
xiii exclusive of fig.
5 external view shell jaw teeth digestive system and genitalia.
W. G. Binney Terrestr.
Moll. V p. 238 f. 137 138 139 pi.
v f. 1 teeth pi.
xii f. H genitalia specimens from Mendocino County excluded.
Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 105 f. 68 69 70.
Third Supplement to T. M. V p. 208 pi vii f. D. Simroth Nova Acta Acad.
Cres.
Leop.Carol.
Germ.
Nat.
Cur. LVI 1891 p. 362 pi.
7 f. 58 full account of anatomy.
Taylor The Ottawa Naturalist III p. 90.
Prophysaon pacificum Cockerell Nautilus III p. Ill Feb. 1890 V p. 31  XI p. 77 includes fiavum.
W. G. Binney Third Supplement to T. M. V p. 210 pi.
vii f. B. F. H. Prophysaon flavum Cockerell Nautilus III p. 111.
Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 6 VI p. 278 279 as var.
of pacificum.
W. G. Binney Third Suppl. p. 210 pi.
vii f. K. Prophysaon Andersonii var .
pallidum Ckll. Nautilus V p. 31.
Length in alcohol 2535 mm.
Upper surface buffgray or whitish flesh colored with irregular blackish diamond venation and sometimes suffused with purplishblack showing a pale dorsal line the mantle yellowish with two curved lateral black stripes with or without scattered marbling sole pale buff or dirty white  footmargin pale  below and anterior to mantle whitish.
Integument with rather coarse diamond venation the areolae subdivided into minute polygonal granules.
Shell oval with moderately consistent calcareous layer.
Genitalia PI.
XIII figs.
59 60 61 Epiphallus'cylindric straight or sometimes curved with an abrupt basal constriction kink and peduncle secured by a short muscle as described above.
Vas deferens very long its length measured from end to the abrupt bend at the atrium being about 7 times the length of the epiphallus  thrown into a complicated snarl.
Spermatheca globose or oval on a rather slender duct.
Vagina long.
Free oviduct short.
Ovotestis showing externally a compact mass of rounded follicles.
Right eye retractor passing between branches of genitalia.
Measurements of several specimens are as follows  a Mus.
no.
69010 Oakland Cal.
 length of swollen epiphallus 9 mm.
 length of extended vas deferens from apex of the epiphallus to base of same 64 mm.
 b same locality epiphallus 5 v. d. 36 mm.
 c Portland Ore. epiphallus 5.5 v. d. 37 ram.
Jaw PI.
XVI fig.
92 specimen from San Juan I.
arcuate with about 15 welldefined ribs denticulating the basal margin.
Radula with 44144 teeth  rachidian tricuspid laterals bicuspid the ectocones quite small  marginals with moderately long pointed mesocones and minute ectocones PI.
XVI fig.
93 two outer lateral and a group of marginal teeth.
Alcoholic P. Andersoni varies in general tone from a smoky lead color above to reddish with black marbling or suffusion mantle light dirty buff or yellow variously marked.
Very rarely the two curved black stripes on the mantle are wanting and occasional specimens fail to show the pale dorsal line which in others is very conspicuous.
We fail however to find internal characters permitting the division of our series into several species  and while it is possible that some of the named forms may be geographic subspecies we are disposed to regard them rather as local variations of but slight rank and uncertain diagnosis.
Large series from many localities must be collected and compared to define the subspecies if any exist.
It differs chiefly from P. foliolatum in being smaller with very much shorter  amputateable  tail segment and in dentition.
Simroth found a very long smooth vermiform spermatophore in P. AndersonL Santa Clara Co. Ehrhorn Raymond around San Francisco Bay Cooper Button et at 7 .
 California  Portland Malone Forest Grove and Astoria Hemphill Oregon  Kalama Chehalis Port Townsend and San Juan Island Hemphill Washington  Vancouver Island  Wickham Taylor Old Mission Lake Cceur d'Alene Idaho Hemphill.
There is considerable variation in the shape and size of the epiphallus even among specimens of similar size and external appearance collected at the same time at one locality.
Thus in one specimen of a small series from San Juan Island the epiphallus is 4 mm.
long and straight fig.
61  while in another it measures 7 mm.
and is curved fig.
59.
The extremes in a larger series from Oakland Cal. are  shortest 5 mm.
long straight  longest 8 mm.
long curved.
After vainly trying to correlate the variations of the epiphallus with other characters with a view to defining two or more species we are compelled to conclude that they are largely individual possibly to some extent functional but that these variations are not in any sense characteristic of races or species.
Of course the observations were made upon sexually mature individuals.
17 Of the several forms included in the above synonymy it is now generally admitted that P. Hemphilli is a synonym of P. Andersoni.
Professor Cockerell 18 has stated his opinion that P.flavum described 17 Mr. Cockerell's division of Prophysaon into forms with the epiphallus '' sausageshaped  and those with it  bananashaped ' ' is therefore not a specific criterion according to our observations.
18 Nautilus XI p. 77 Nov. 1897. from Gray's Harbor Washington is to be included in P. pacificum.
There are all possible intergradations between the ochreous and grayish forms in P. Andersoni and P. folio latum.
In P. pacificum we fail to see any specific characters.
The coloration agrees well with specimens of undoubted P. Andersoni from Washington and neither the measurements nor the dentition offer differential characters so far as we can see.
The types were collected by Mr. Wickham near Victoria Vancouver Island.
P. foliolatum Gould.
PI.
X figs.
15 16 1 7  PI.
XI fig.
32  PI.
XIII figs.
55 56 57 58 PI.
XIV fig.
70  PI.
XV fig.
SO  PI.
XVI figs.
90 9S.
Arion foliolatus Gould Moll.
U. S. Expl.
Exped. p. 2 PI.
I f. 2a b 1852 Binney.
Terr.
Moll  II p. 30.
PL 66 f. 2 1851 .
Copied by subsequent writers.
W. G. Binney Second Supplement to Terr.
Moll. V p. 206 PL viii f. A B PL ix f. B.
C D. Phenacarion foliolatus CklL Nautilus. iii p. 127 March 1890 Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 6.
VI pp.
278 279 W. G. Binney Fourth Supplement p. 181.
Arion foliatus W. G. Binney Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1858 p. 197.
Arion foliolatus var.
Hemphilli W. G. Binney Third Supplement T. M. V p. 208 PL viii f. C ix f. H genitalia.
Cockerell Nautilus III p. 126 March 1890.
Phenacarion Hemphilli WG. Binney Fourth Supplement toT.
M. V p. 183 not Prophysaon Hemphilli Bid.
 Binn..
Length in alcohol 5080 mm.
Rather slender the posterior third or more often distinctly more attenuated defined by an oblique groove.
Mantle oblong its length contained 2f to o times in the total length of body the breathing orifice decidedly in front of the middle.
Foot margin rather wide wrinkles of the sole corresponding to vertical grooves of the foot margin bending backward and meeting in the middle  pedal groove deep with no noticeable caudal pore.
Colors variable  1 Back clear reddishfawn with a lighter dorsal band sometimes obsolete the mantle with the usual two curved black lateral stripes with or without scattered macula
 becoming paler light yellowish on the sides and sole or 2 back reddish suffused with black mantle bands long often with a third median band and scattered maculae foot with the principal veins of the reticulation blackpigmented as are alternate grooves of the foot margin  sides paler gray  sole yellowish.
Surface with deeper oblique grooves connected by short longitudinal grooves to form a roughly diamondshaped reticulation the meshes of which are minutely subdivided.
Shell very delicate membranous with a thin and incoherent layer of calcareous granules.
Jaw PI.
XVI fig.
98 strong opaque with 814 wide flattened ribs.
Radula with 44144 teeth.
Centrals tricuspid laterals bicuspid the ectocones small.
Marginals formed by shortening of the basalplates having the mesocone short ectocone simple or on some teeth bifid PI.
XVI fig.
90.
Epiphallus stout cylindric curved with the usual constriction peduncle and muscle at base.
Vas deferens extremely long elaborately twisted and tangled.
Vagina long the spermatheca duct about as long as the spermatheca.
Albumen gland very large long and tongueshaped.
Ovotestis a very compact mass showing externally only the roundedpolygonal ends of the closely packed follicles.
In two typical individuals from Seattle Mus.
no.
71072 the measurements are  a fig.
55 length of swollen epiphallus 12.5 mm. of extended vas deferens from summit of epiphallus to base of same 92 mm.
 of albumen gland 28 mm.
 length of animal 80 mm.
b fig.
57 length of epiphallus 14 mm.
 of vas deferens 114 mm.
The ratio of length of epiphallus to that of vas deferens as measured above is about 1  71 or 8.
The original of fig.
58 is a small specimen perhaps not fully adult.
Type locality Discovery Harbor Puget Sound Pickering.
Also occurs at Olympia Hemphill Seattle Hemphill Randolph and doubtless throughout the Puget Sound region generally.
P. foliolatum is very closely allied to P. Andersoni Coop.
It is larger more elongated with the solid portion of the tail or that subject to amputation longer in proportion than in Andersoni.
In living specimens a mucous pore is visible at the tail but this is not noticeable externally in alcoholic examples.
The light dorsal line is occasionally indistinguishable.
The jaw forms probably intergrade with P. Andersoni but the teeth differ quite perceptibly in the shorter blunter cusps of the outer laterals and inner marginals.
This is one of the best specific characters.
The form described by Binney as Phenacarion Hemp hi Hi does not seem to offer sufficiently tangible points of difference from foliolatum to stand as a species even were the name not preoccupied.
It is said to be  more slender and more pointed at the tail than foliolatus.
The body is a bright yellow with bluishblack reticulations.
The edge of the foot and the foot itself are almost black.
Shield irregularly mottled with fuscous.
The body also is irregu17 larly mottled with fuscous and has one broad fuscous band down the center of the back spreading as it joins the mantle with a narrower band on each side of the body.
It loses its color on being placed in spirits becoming a uniform dull slate color.
Mantle lengthened oval.
Shellplate represented by a group of calcareous grains concealed in the mantle  it is impossible to remove it as one shellplate.
A decided caudal pore.
The jaw and dentition are as in folio latum.
Genitalia much as in foliolatum but Binney found the albumen gland to be much shorter less tongueshaped and browntipped.
The epiphallus tapers distally instead of contracting abruptly.
Localities  Gray's Harbor and Chehalis Washington.
The only characters of importance are the dorsal band which seems to be similar to P. fasciatum and the tapering epiphallus also a character of that species if not in this case an indication of sexual immaturity.
Mr. Cockerell considers it a synonym of foliolatum  and as we have seen no authentic specimen and the name is in any case preoccupied we consider it best to leave the form as a synonym of foliolatum pending further information.
In a series from Cascade Springs on the Columbia River near the Government locks collected in October 1897 by Mr. J. G. Maloue PI.
XIII fig.
54 the epiphallus is shorter not curved the vas deferens also much shorter.
The spermatheca is subglobular.
Measurements  length of epiphallus 8.6 mm.
 of extended vas deferens from apex of the epiphallus to the abrupt curve at base of same 42 mm.
 of albumen gland 13 mm.
 length of animal 50 mm.
As measured above the epiphallus is about onefifth the length of the vas deferens.
In typical foliolatum it is about oneeighth in Andersoni oneseventh.
These specimens are in alcohol less vermiform than typical foliolatum with paler color back including shield reddish fading on the sides  mantle striped as usual but blackish stripes defining the dorsal pale stripe either very faint or lacking so that in some individuals no pale dorsal line is visible.
Thejaw in this form PI.
XVI fig.
89 resembles that of P. Andersoni in the numerous ribs.
Radula with long pointed mesocones on outer lateral and inner marginal teeth as in P. Andersoni.
In typical P. foliolatus the corresponding teeth are shorter and blunter.
This will probably prove to be a distinct subspecies and referable to P. Andersoni rather than to foliolatum.
P. humile Cockerell.
PI.
XVI fig.
97.
Prophysaon humile Cockerell Nautilus iii p. 112 February 1890 Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 6 VI p. 277 279.
W. G. Binney Third Suppl. p. 211 PI.
ViL figs.
E G L M. We do not consider P. humile 19 specifically distinct from fasciatum.
The coloration genitalia and teeth are practically identical and the character of the jaw PI.
XVI fig.
97 does not seem to be constant.
Several specimens selected at random from our series of fasciatum from Seattle have a jaw neither plaited or ribbed but densely irregularly striated.
We cannot find any other differences between these specimens and the ordinary fasciatum with flatribbed or plaited jaw.
The name humile has precedence over fasciatum and if the two forms prove to be as we think specifically identical fasciatum will be reduced to varietal rank.
P. fasciatum Cockerell.
PI.
X figs.
2327  PL XI fig.
34 PI.
XII figs.
3740 PL XVI figs.
91 9496.
Prophysaon fasciatum Cockerell in Binney Third Supplement to Terr.
Moll. V p. 209 pi.
vii.f.
A May 1890.
W. G. Binney Fourth Supplement p. 180 Cockerell Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 6 VI p. 278 279.
Prophysaon Hemphilli ''specimen from Mendocino County W. G. Binney Terr.
Moll. V p. 239 pi.
xii f. I. Prophysaon Andersoni J. G. C.  W. G. Binney Second Supplement p. 42.
Prophysaon fasciatum var.
obscurum Ckll.
The Conchologist II p. 119 Chehalis Wash. Length in alcohol 2535 mm. rarely as much as 50 mm.
General form and surface reticulation as in P. Andersoni.
Color extremely variable  1 Whitishbuff 2 bluishgray or 3 red on the back graybuff at the sides always with two conspicuous black stripes wellor illdeveloped along the sides behind the mautle defining a wide wedgeshaped ligbt dorsal area which encloses a 19 The original description is as follows   Prophysaon humile Cockerell  Length in alcohol lrj.V mill.
Body above and mantle smokecolor obscured by bands.
Mantle wrinkled and having a broad dorsal and two lateral blackish bands reducing the groundcolor to two obscure pale subdorsal bands.
Length of mantle 7 mill. breadth 5i mill.
Respiratory orifice 2 mill from anterior border.
Body subcylindrical somewhat tapering rather blunt at end.
Distance from posterior end of mantle to end of body 8 mill.
Back with a blackish band reaching a little more than half its length and lateral darker blackish bands reaching its whole length.
Reticulations distinct  foliated.
Sole strongly transversely striategrooved but not differentiated into tracts.
Jaw pale strongly striate moderately curved not ribbed.
Lingual membrane long and narrow.
Teeth about 35135.
Centrals tricuspid laterals bicuspid marginals with a large point and one sometimes two small outer points.
Liver pale chocolate.
Found by Mr. A. F. Wickham under the bark of rotten logs in the woods around Lake Cour d'Alene Idaho 1889.
In its reticulations and general characters this species resembles P. Andersoni of which it is possibly a variety.
similarly shaped dark stripe running backward from the mantle sometimes welldefined sometimes faint.
Mantle buff or red with two curved lateral black bands sometimes obsolete and scattered black maculation or marbling.
Shell rectangularly oblong 2 or 3 mm.
long.
Epiphallus slender long and tapering dlstally having an abrupt kink at base secured by a short muscle as usual in the genus.
Vas deferens neither lengthened nor convoluted.
Vagina apparently functional as a penis.
Spermatheca globose or oval on a short stout duct which is directly continued into the vagina.
Free oviduct short and slender.
Ovotestis a rather loose bunch of oval follicles fig.
38.
Albumen gland unusually hard and brittle.
The right eye retractor passes between the branches of genitalia.
In one specimen PL XII fig.
37 there seems to be a glandular enlargement of one side of the base of the epiphallus with a small tubercle on the other side.
This may be pathologic.
Jaw PL XVI figs.
9496 arcuate with a slight median projection below covered with flat narrow crowded ribs separated by very narrow shallow intervals or with flat slightly imbricated plaits or merely densely irregularly striated vertically in form humile see above.
Radulawith 35135 teeth.
Centrals tricuspid  laterals lacking the entocone  marginals formed by union of ectocone with mesocone and shortening of the basalplate.
The cusps are short throughout.
The change from laterals to marginals is so gradual that it is practically impossible to draw a line between them.
On some outer marginals the ectocone is bifid.
The figure shows a central with one lateral and a group of three inner marginals.
Well and constantly distinguished from P. Andersoni and foliolatum externally by the wide light dorsal area enclosing a darker median stripe and bounded laterally by blackish bands.
Internally the slender tapering epiphallus and short vas deferens are even more characteristic.
The scarlet color of the back noticed by Cockerell in some specimens is not accidental but of common occurrence.
In form the species varies in alcohol from a long vermiform shape to about the contour of P. Andersoni.
The bodycavity extends nearly to the end of the tail.
Selfexcision of the tail occurs but the amputated portion is short as in P. Andersoni and the great majority of individuals we have seen show no oblique constriction of the tail.
P. coeruleum Cockerell.
PI.
IX figs.
711  PI.
XI fig.
30  PI.
XIII figs.
5153  PI.
XVI fig.
86.
Prophvsaon coeruleum Cockerell Nautilus iii p. 112.
Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 6 VI p. 278.
W. G. Binney Third Suppl.
T. M. V p. 209 PI.
vii f. I J. P. coeruleum var.
dubium Ckll. .
c.  W. G. Binney .
c. Length in alcohol about 15 mm.
 color blue or slateblue sometimes brown somewhat paler at the sides.
Back with close deep longitudinal grooves which on the sides become oblique and more spaced and more anteriorly they radiate vertically below the mantle  transverse grooves uniting the longitudinals comparatively few and shallow.
Footmargin very narrow a second narrow welldefined submargin above it.
Tail without caudal pore frequently selfamputated and leaving a conspicuous longitudinal slit PI.
IX fig.
7 and figs.
911 the excised portion.
20 Genitalia PI.
XIII fig.
5153 somewhat as in P. Andersoni.
The epiphallus is short  in one of the original specimens from Olympia PI.
XIII figs.
52 53 very short truncated at the ends  in another specimen from Seattle PI.
XIII fig.
51 it is oblong  vas deferens tangled but shorter than in Andersoni.
Spermatheca globular on a rather slender duct which is short in the Olympian specimen longer in that from Seattle.
Radula about as in P. fasciatum  the cusps of outer lateral and inner marginal teeth rather short  marginals quite wide PI.
XVI fig.
86.
Type locality Olympia Washington Hemphill.
In addition to part of Hemphill's original lot we have received it from Seattle P. B. Randolph and Portland Oregon J. G. Malone.
Mr. Randolph writes that it occurs solitary in dark fir woods under damp logs.
Color in life a brighter shade of blue.
They do not bear handling. 
P. coeruleum is an exceedingly distinct species distinguished at once by its color and the character of its reticulations.
In the latter respect the species differs from all others of the genus and re20 The original description from larger specimens than we have seen is as follows  '' Length in alcohol 22Amill. in motion 43 mill.
Body and mantle clear blue gray paler at sides sole white.
Mantle finely granulated broad without markings.
Length of mantle 7 mill.. breadth 5 mill.
Respiratory orifice 2J mill from anterior border.
Body subcylindrical tapering pointed.
 In one specimen eaten off at the end. 
Distance from posterior end of mantle to end of body lOf mill.
The reticulations take the form of longitudinal equidistant lines occasionally joined by transverse lines or coalescing.
Sole not differentiated into tracts.
Jaw pale strongly ribbed.
Liver white.
Mr. Binney sends me colored drawings of the living animal  the neck is long and white or very pale.
sembles Ariolimax.
The very uarrow footmargin with an unusually distinct border above is another distinguishing feature.
Most of the specimens we have seen have lost the end of the tail by selfamputation as shown in the figures.
When perfect the tail is pointed with no perceptible mucous pore  the longitudinal grooves of the back become irregular near the end of the tail.
The color of Portland and Seattle specimens is distinctly blue but some of the original lot from Olvmpia collected about eight years ago have become brown.
Mr. Cockerell thus describes a variegated form which he refers to cceruleum as a variety    Prophysaon cceruleum var.
dublum.
Length in alcohol 8 mill.
Length of mantle 4 mill.
Distance from posterior end of mantle to end of body 3 mill.
Mantle broad with four bands composed of coalesced black marbling very irregular in shape and running together anteriorly.
Body dark tapering.
Sole pale its edges gray.
Liver white.
With the P. cceruleum is a small dark slug probably a variety of it but differing as described above.
It will easily be distinguished by its blackish color and the peculiar markings on the mantle.
There are in some specimens very close fine superficial impressed vertical lines crossing the deeper oblique grooves.
Genus ANADENULUS Cockerell 1890.
Anademdus Ckll. Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 6 VI p. 279 Oct. 1890.
Slugs with the minute nonspiral shell plate wholly buried  the mantle small rounded and anterior with breathing pore median on the right side.
Genital orifice below right tentacle.
Foot reticulate somewhat keeled posteriorly the footmargin moderate pedal grooves rising slightly at tail with no caudal pore there  sole distinctly tripartite the areas separated by longitudinal grooves middle field narrower than side fields PI.
IX fig.
12.
Bodycavity extending the entire length.
Jaw with about 20 wide flat ribs Binney.
Radula with 20120 teeth about as in Prophysaon in form.
Intestinal tract PI.
XI fig.
35 much as in Prophysaon  posterior loop formed by G 3 and G 4 extending far behind that formed by G 1 and G 2  slightly twisted posteriorly the folds elsewhere hardly twisted.
Genital system unknown.
Muscle system PI.
XIV fig.
68 as in Prophysaon.
Eye retractors inserted at the two posterior angles of the diaphragm the buccal retractor at the posterior margin somewhat to the right of the median line shortly bifurcate distally.
Pallial region PI.
XV fig.
75.
Kidney large rounded nearly filling the lung cavity.
Ventricle exposed.
Distribution San Diego Co. California.
No adequate discussion of the affinities of Anadenulus can be entered upon until wellpreserved specimens are collected permitting an examination of the genitalia.
Present information indicates its proximity to Prophysaon with which Anadenulus agrees in the digestive tract and musculature.
But the voluminous kidney exposing only the ventricle the conspicuously tripartite sole and the apparent absence of that peculiar structure of the tail which distinguishes Prophysaon are all important characters indicating the distinctness of the two genera.
Turning to Old World genera we find Avion differing in its tail gland posteriorly prolonged buccal retractor and complexly twisted intestine.
Geomalacus shows the same with still other differences  and in Anadenus the foot margin is very much narrower the sole not divided by longitudinal grooves and the intestine is long and spirally twisted.
A. Cockerelli Hemphill.
PI.
IX figs.
12 13 11 PL XI fig.
35 PI.
XIV fig.
6S  PI.
XV fig.
75.
Anadenus Cockerelli Hemphill Nautilus IV p. 2 May 1890 W. G. Binney Fourth Supplement to Terr.
Moll.V p. 178 PI.
i f. 1  PI iii f. 5 dentition.
Anadenulus Cockerelli Cockerell Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 6 VI p. 278 279 Oct. 1S90.
Alcoholic specimens have the foot blackish with a short light stripe behind the mantle above the sides below mantle and the head pale  mantle small short black with two festooned longitudinal yellowish stripes.
Length 91 3
mm.
Cuyamaca Mts. San Diego Co. California Hemphill.
IV.
BRIEF DIRECTIONS FOR COLLECTING PRESERVING AND EXAMINING SLUGS.
21 In the Northern States the best time for collecting slugs is in early spring.
From February to July most well grown specimens 31 As many of our American conchologists have not collected or studied slugs especially we have thought it not superfluous to append the following notes on collecting slugs with rough directions for their examination.
It will readily be understood that if the slug to be examined is of very small size or it is necessary to obtain all the data from one or two specimens more or less radical modifications of these instructions must be made.
taken will prove to have the reproductive organs fully developed.
Autumn and late summer are a somewhat less favorable time because the young of the year have then attained the full growth of the species while upon opening them the genitalia are found undeveloped.
Still autumn specimens should be collected.
Always date each  catch  and keep it separate.
22 The best preservative for slugs and other land mollusks is alcohol.
Of other preservatives formalin formaldehyde is perhaps the best  but it is on the whole a very unsatisfactory substitute rendering the tissues tough and slippery difficult to dissect and generally destroying calcareous organs in time.
Formalin specimens are moreover inferior to alcoholic for histological study.
Upon the whole then formalin should only be used as a permanent preservative for large slugs if at all and then in a three or four p. c. solution.
It should be added however that when travelling with limited means of conveyance it is often convenient to use formalin on account of the economy of carrying it in the commercial strength to be diluted as occasion arises.
Never crowd snails in formalin  the bulk of the solution should exceed that of the snails six or eight times.
After collecting slugs they should be drowned by placing in a vessel of water with a lid laid on not a cork pushed in to exclude air.
Generally twelve hours is a sufficient time but this depends upon the slugs and the temperature.
In hot weather less time is required.
Test them by taking one out touching it with alcohol and if no retraction takes place they are ready to be transferred to 25 alcohol 23 leave in this about twelve hours then transfer to 50 and after twentyfour hours or more to about 75 in which they may be permanently kept.
If formalin is used the slugs may be placed in the 3 or 4 solution when drowned and changed to fresh solution after a few days the first being thrown away.
Formalin specimens may at any time be transferred to alcohol or it may be used with a small percent of alcohol.
22 Of course for economy of space and alcohol all the lots of one species may be kept in one jar each in a separate vial or piece of cheesecloth.
23 Of course in field work the exact proportion is not vital.
In general it is best to use a mixture of three parts of water to one of alcohol at first then a half and half mixture and then the permanent strength.
The first and second mixtures may be kept and used repeatedly occasionally adding a little alcohol to keep up the strength.
To dissect slugs use a small pan say 4x6x1 inches with a layer of blackened wax on the bottom.
Only a pair of fine scissors a pair of finepointed tweezers a small scalpel and a supply of fine pins with of course the small lens usually carried by naturalists is necessary.
Cut the outer integument across the head and along the left side pin sole down in the pan with water enough to cover open by turning the dorsal integument to the right and cut the rectum where it enters the back.
The digestive tract may then be studied by picking awa 7 the liver and with ordinary care the genitalia may be removed and isolated by cutting out a small area around the genital orifice.
After observing its insertion the penis retractor may be cut.
If specimens are abundant use another for the examination of the muscles and pal Hal organs.
Open by cutting just above the foot groove all around the body remove the sole pin back downward in the dissecting pan and remove the digestive and genital systems care being taken to break no muscles.
The whole retractor system will then be seen and after study the muscles may be cut and the diaphragm carefully removed disclosing the kidney heart and lung as seen in the figures on Plate XV.
Use a large slug to begin with such as Limaxmaximns the Ariolimaces or Aphallarion and no difficulty not readily overcome will be encountered.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
Eeferences cited under the several genera and species comprise all or nearly all writings upon American Arionidce.
A catalogue of the foreign papers consulted in our studies would unnecessarily extend this article as the literature is given almost in full in one or other of the following papers which we have found of especial use.
GodwinAusten H. H. Land and Freshwater Mollusca of India Pt.
I pp.
4665 1882.
Simroth H. Yersuch einer Naturgeschichte der deutschen Nachtschnecken und ihrer europiiischen Yerwandten.
Zeitschr.
f. wissensch.
Zool. 1885 pp.
203366.
Bibliography on pp.
359361.
Simroth H. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Nachtschnecken.
Nova Acta k. Leop.Carol.
deutschen Akad.
Wissensch. LIY No.
1 pp.
191 1889.
Scharff R. F. The slugs of Ireland.
Sci.
Trans.
Boy.
Dublin Society IV Ser.
2 pp.
513562.
Bibliography pp.
557 558 1891.
Simroth H. Die Nachtschnecken der portugesischazorischen Fauna.
Nova Acta etc. LVI pp.
201424 1891.
Bibliography on pp.
416419.
Cockerkll T. D. A. CheckList of Slugs.
The Conchologist II p. 158.
Collinge W. E. On some European Slugs of the Genus Arion.
Proc Zool.
Soc.
London 1897 p. 439.
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES.
Plate IX.
Figs.
1 2.
Hemphillia glandulosa Bid.
 Binn.
Dorsal outline and lateral aspect of a specimen from Astoria Oregon Hemphill coll.
 Mus.
no.
71161. m mantle sh exposed surface of shell.
Figs.
3 4.
Hemphillia camelus Pils.
 Van.
Lateral and dorsal aspects of the type specimen.
Old Mission Idaho.
Mus.
no.
63926.
Figs.
5 6.
Hesperarion niger J. G.
Coop..
Ventral and lateral aspects of a maculated individual.
Santa Clara Cal.
Mus.
no.
71198.
Figs.
7 8.
Prophysaon cceruleum Ckll.
Dorsal and lateral aspects of a specimen which has lost its tail by selfamputation.
Olyrupia Washington.
Mus.
no.
63913.
Figs.
9 10 11.
Prophysaon cceruleum Ckll.
Lateral anterior and dorsal aspects of the selfamputated tail of a specimen from Seattle Washington.
No.
71074.
Figs.
12 13 14.
Anadenulus Cockerelli Hemph..
Ventral lateial and dorsal aspects of one of the original specimens from Julian City San Diego Co. California.
Mus.
no.
63895.
Plate X. Figs.
15 16.
Prophysaon foliolatus Gld..
Lateral and dorsal views of a typical specimen from Seattle Washington.
Mus.
no.
71072.
Fig.
17.
Prophysaon foliolatus Gld.
Same specimen the mantle turned backward to show position of its anterior insertion.
Figs.
18 19.
Prophysaon Andersoni J. G.
Coop..
Oakland California.
Mus.
no.
69010a.
Figs.
20 21 22.
Propthysaon Andersoni J. G.
Coop.
 San Juan Island Washington.
Mus.
no.
63912.
Figs.
23 24.
Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll.
Seattle Washington.
Collected in March or April 1896.
Mus.
no.
68025.
Figs.
25 26.
Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll.
Lateral views of two individuals from Seattle Washington.
Fig.
27.
Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll.
Same individual as fig.
26 with mantle turned backward to show position of its anterior insertion.
Plate XL All figures represent the digestive tract viewed from above.
A.
gl. albumen gland B. d. bile duct P.m. buccal mass 6r 1t  first second third and fourth folds of the gut Gen.
or. external genital orifice  L liver  o. t. ovotestis  sp. spermatheca  T tail  ut. uterus  vag.
vagina.
Fig.
28.
Prophysaon Andersoni Coop..
Oakland Cal.
Mus.
no.
69010a.
Fig.
29.
Prophysaon Andersoni Coop..
California.
Mus no 71071.
Received from W. G. Binney as P. Hemphilli B.
 Fig.
30.
Prophysaon cceruleum Ckll.
Fig.
31.
Binney a notabilis Cooper.
Guadalupe Island.
Mus.no.
71923.
Fig.
32.
Prophysaon folio latum Gld..
Seattle Wash.
Fig.
33.
Hesperarion niger Cooper.
California.
Mus.
no.
71078. o. t. ovotestis  L liver I 7  tail.
Fig.
34.
Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll.
Seattle Wash. Mus.
no.
68026.
Salivary glands and anterior portion of liver removed genitalia and digestive tract in situ.
Fig.
35.
Anadenulus Cockerelli Hemphill.
One of the original lot.
Fig.
36.
Hemphillia camelus Pils.
 Van.
Old Mission Idaho.
Mus.
no.
63926. o. t. ovotestis.
Plate XII.
Epi. epiphallus p. p. penis papilla r. p. penis retractor v.d. vas deferens.
Fig.
37.
Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll.
Seattle Wash. Mus.
no.
68026a.
Perhaps abnormal.
Fig.
38.
Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll.
Same locality.
Ovotestis.
Fig.
39.
Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll.
Same locality.
Mus.
no.
68025.
Fig.
40.
Same specimen atrium and base of the epiphallus the binding muscle removed.
Fig.
41.
Hemphillia camelus Pils.
 Van.
Type specimen.
Mus.
no.
63926.
Fig.
42.
The same penis opened.
Fig.
43.
Hesperarion niger Cooper.
Spermatophore.
Fig.
44.
Hesperarion niger Cooper.
Santa Clara Cal. collected Nov. or Dec 1896.
Fig.
45.
Hesperarion niger Cooper.
Mus.
no.
71078.
Apex of penis opened.
Fig.
46.
The same side view of penispapilla.
Fig.
47.
Hesperarion niger Cooper.
Mus.
no.
71077.
Fig.
48.
The same.
Spermatheca.
Fig.
49.
Hemphillia grandulosa B.
 B. Apex of penis opened showing papilla.
Fig.
50.
Hemphillia glandulosa B.
 B.
Lower portion of genital system.
Astoria Oregon.
Plate XIII.
.
ov. free oviduct  muse. muscle connecting atrium and epiphallus  sp. sp.
d. spermatheca and its duct  vag. vagina  ped. peduncle of the epiphallus.
Fig.
51.
Prophysaon eoeruleum Ckll.
Seattle Washington.
Figs.
52 53.
Prophysaon eoeruleum Ckll.
Olympia Washington.
The pedicel of epiphallus is seen in fig.
53.
Fig.
54.
Prophysaon Andersoni 
var.
Cascade Springs Washington.
Mus.no.
71647.
Fig.
55.
Prophysaon foliolatum Gkl..
Seattle Washington.
Mus.
no.
71072.
Typical form.
Fig.
56.
The same.
Median transverse section of the epiphallus.
Fig.
57.
Prophysaon foliolatum Gld..
Another specimen from the same locality.
Fig.
58.
The same a smaller specimen not mature.
Fig.
59.
Prophysaon Andersoni Cooper.
Oakland Cal.
Mus.
no.
69010.
Fig.
60.
Prophysaon Andersoni Cooper.
California.
Mus.
No.
71071.
Received from W. G. Binney as P. Hemphilli B.
 B.
Fig.
61.
Prophysaon Andersoni Cooper.
Oakland Cal.
Mus.
no.
69010.
Fig.
62.
Prophysaon Andersoni Cooper.
Spermatophore.
Plate XIV.
The retractor muscle systems are all represented as seen from beneath ao aorta  c. a. cephalic artery  e. r. eye retractor  G intestine  I. t. r. left tentacle and eye retractor  ovid.
r. retractor of the oviduct p penis ph.
r pharynx or buccal retractor  ret. retensor muscle  r. p. penis retractor  r. s. radula sack  r. t. r. right tentacle retractor  sp.
r retractor of the spermatheca  t r tentacle retractor  vag. vagina  vag.
r. vaginal retractor  v. a visceral artery.
Figs.
63 64 65.
Binney a notabilis Cooper.
Guadalupe Island.
Ventral and lateral aspects of an alcoholic specimen and the retractor system.
Fig.
66.
Ariolimax Columbianus Gld..
Fig.
67.
Aphallarion Buttoni Pils.
 Van.
Fig.
68.
Anadenulus Cocherelli Hemph..
Fig.
69.
Hemphillia camelus Pils.
 Van.
Mus.
no.
63926.
Fig.
70.
Prophysaon foliolatum Gld..
Mus.
no.
71073.
Fig.
71.
Hesperarion niger Cooper.
Mus.
no.
71078.
Fig.
72.
Arion hortensis Fer.
Seattle Wash. Mus.
no.
68023.
Plate XV.
Pallial organs seen from below the diaphragm removed a auricle  ao aorta  k kidney  I lung p. a. pulmonary or breathing aperture ph.r. pharynx or buccal retractor muscle p.v pulmonary vein  r G rectum  r. t r right tentacle retractor  ur secondary ureter  v ventricle.
Fig.
73.
Ariolimax Columbianus Gld..
Maculated specimen from near Oakland California.
Pallial region from below with pulmonary net work of the lung roof.
Fig.
74.
The same showing main ramifications of excretory canals in kidney.
Fig.
75.
Anadenulus Cockerellii Hemp..
Fig.
76.
Aphallarion Buttoni Pils.
 Van.
Fig.
77.
Hesperarion niger J. G.
Coop..
Mus.
no.
71078.
Fig.
78.
Hemphillia camelus Pils.
 Van.
Fig.
79.
Avion hortensis Fer.
Specimen from Seattle Wash. Mus.
no.
68023.
Fig.
80.
Prophysaon foliolatum Gld..
Specimen from Seattle.
Wash. Mus.
no.
71073.
Fig.
81.
Ariolimax columbianus Gld.
End of tail lateral view.
Figs.
82 83.
Avion hortensis Fer.
Seattle Washington.
Fig.
84.
Hesperarion niger Coop..
Oblique view of end of tail showing pore.
Plate XVI.
Fig.
85.
Hemphillia camelus Pils.
 Van.
Central first lateral and three marginal teeth.
Fig.
86.
Prophysaon cozruleum Ckll.
Group of outermost marginal teeth.
Fig.
87.
Binneya notahilis Coop.
Jaw.
Fig.
88.
Binneya notabilis Coop.
Teeth.
Fig.
89.
Prophysaon Andersoni Coop.
 var.

Mus.
no.
71647.
Cascade Springs Washington.
Fig.
90.
Projhysaon foliolatum Gld..
Typical form.
Central first lateral and group of marginal teeth.
Fig.
91.
Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll.
Central first lateral and group of marginal teeth.
Fig.
92.
Prophysaon Andersoni Coop..
Jaw.
San Juan Island.
Mus.
no.
63912.
Fig.
93.
Outer marginal and lateral teeth of same individual.
Fig.
94.
Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll.
Jaw.
Mus.
no.
68026.
Seattle Washington.
Fig.
95.
Much magnified portion from median part of another similar jaw of the same species.
Fig.
96.
More enlarged basal margin of same.
Fig.
97.
Prophysaon humile Ckll.
Much magnified portion of the basal margin of a striated jaw.
Seattle Washington.
Fig.
98.
Prophysaon foliolatum Gld..
Jaw.
Mus.
no.
71072.
Seattle Washington.
May 3.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Fiftythree persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication   Notes on Mr. Meehan's paper on the Plants of Lewis and Clark's Expedition across the Continent 180406.
By Dr. Elliott Coues.
List of Bats collected by Dr. W. S. Abbott in Siani.
By Gerrit S. Miller Jr. May 10.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Twentysix persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication   Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the South Carolina Coast.
By Clarence B. Moore. 
Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Savannah River.
By Clarence B. Moore.
Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Altamaha River.
By Clarence B. Moore. 
Recent Acquisitions.
By Clarence B. Moore. 
Environmental and Sexual Dimorphism in Crepidula.
By E. G. Conklin.
May 17.
Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair.
Thirtysix persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication    Descriptions of five New Phyllostome Bats.
By Gerritt S. Miller Jr.  Chitons collected by Dr. Harold Heath at Pacific Grove near Monterey Cal.
By H. A. Pilsbry.
Some New Species of Diatoms.
By C. S. Boyer.
The deaths of Theodore Wernwag May 1st and of J. Wain Vaux May 16th members were announced.
1898.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
263 May 24.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Forty persons present.
MPv.
Charles Morris read a paper on the antiquity of Man from the standpoint of evolution.
No abstract.
May 31.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Twentyone persons present.
A paper entitled  Botanical Observations on the Mexican Flora especially on the Flora of the Valley of Mexico.
By J. W. Harshberger M. D. was presented for publication.
Papers under the following titles were accepted for publication in the Journal    Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the South Carolina Coast.
By Clarence B. Moore. 
Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Savannah River.
By Clarence B. Moore.
Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Altamaha River.
By Clarence B. Moore. 
Recent Acquisitions.
By Clarence B. Moore.
The following were ordered to be printed   DRELLOID SNAILS.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND E. G. VANATTA.
While recording some recent additions to the North American landsnail fauna with the intention of revising the  Check List  of United States land mollusks published in these Proceedings for 1889 the attention of the senior author was recalled to the rejection of the generic name Cylindrella by Messrs. Harris and Burrows in 1891 and their substitution of a new name for the group.
Upon compiling a list of the generic and subgeneric names which have been applied to species of  Cylindrella it became obvious that a thorough taxonomic revision was urgently needed.
In order to ascertain which of the numerous names should be retained as valid to place these upon a solid basis and to reduce the remainder to synonyms it was found necessary to supplement a review of the literature of the group by an examination of the snails themselves especially with reference to the radula and the internal characters of the shells revealed by a study of sections cut to expose the internal columella or axis.
This detailed examination has been made chiefly by the junior author of this paper.
The characters of the radula have been utilized as a basis for classification by Crosse and Fischer in 1870 their paper marking an epoch in the taxonomic history of this family.
W. G. Binney has added to our knowledge of this subject upon the lines laid down by the French writers  and later Strebel and Pfeffer in their suggestive and original series of papers upon the Mexican fauna have made important contributions toward a rational classification of the group.
There are many other writings bearing upon the nomenclature of the Cylindrellas but no others of importance for original facts or views concerning their phylogeny or structure aside from mere species work.
The external conchologic characters of the Cylindrellas are well known by the writings of Pfeiffer Poey and others but the modifications of the internal armature have been far less fully elucidated.
A portion of PfeifFer's descriptions mention briefly the internal structure and some of the plates of the Novitates Conchologiece and Malakozoqlogische Blatter represent it  and Arango in his Contribution a la Fauna Malacologica Cabana notes the internal structure of the Cuban species.
Most of these observations however are not sufficiently detailed or exact to meet the requirements of the case now that a classification is based largely upon internal structure  and our own work is therefore founded wholly upon the study of a series of sections including nearly every species in the collection of the Academy.
Without entering into any elaborate expose or criticism of the work of former authors upon the Cylindrellas attention should be directed to the contention of Crosse  Fischer 1 and later of Fischer 2 that the series should be distributed between two family groups the CyUndrellidce and the Pupidce a conclusion based wholly upon the structure of the teeth and jaws  the first family having greatly modified teeth and plaited jaw the second having normal dentition and solid jaw.
That this splitting of the Cylindrellas into two is an unnatural division seems to us to be proven by the following considerations  1 The discovery of completely Cylindrelloid shells Epirobia with the  normal  type of teeth.
2 The presence of transition stages in the teeth in the genus Holospira and 3 the recent demonstration by the senior author of this paper 3 of the rapid changes undergone by the teeth of some genera under the stress of changed habits without corresponding changes in the rest of the anatomy as seen in Papuina Polymita etc.
4 The general law of change in the structure of the jaw as illustrated in the families Endodontidce and Helicidce must now be recognized as largely discounting the old value placed upon that organ as a factor in systematic malacology  and in any family of snails we may expect to find both the more primitive plaited and the later solid type of jaw.
The final reason for rejecting the idea that any of the group under consideration are Pupidce is that none of them so far as known possess the extremely characteristic complication of the male genital organs found in Pupa Buliminus Clausilia and their immediate allies and which constitute one of the most important characters of the family Pupidce.
1 Journ.
de Conchyl. 1870.
2 Manuel de Conchyliologie.
3 Manual of Conchology 2 IX introduction and portions relating to arboreal Helices.
18 Our further observations upou the family may be grouped under five heads   I.
Names applied to generic and minor groups of Cylindrelloid snails.
II.
Key to the genera and subgenera.
III.
Classified lists of the species with zoogeographic and other notes.
IV.
Brief sketch of other genera of the family.
V. Provisional phylogenetic diagram and table of geographic distribution.
I. CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF NAMES APPLIED TO CYLINDRELLOID SNAILS.
Exclusive of those pertaining to Lia Macroceramus Holospira and other generally recognized genera.
1822 or earlier.
Cochlodina Ferussac Tableau Systematique etc. p. 24 61.
Under Helix Ferussac establishes a  Quatorzieme sousgenre.
Cochlodine Cochlodina nobis.
The subgeneric definition applies better to Clausilia than to the other forms included by Ferussac in the group  and indeed seems to be based wholly upon that genus.
The species of Cochlodina are classified as follows    Shell dextral.
f Aperture without teeth or lamina.
1.
Peristome not continuous.
Premier groupe.
Les Pupoides Pupoides.
493 carinata Gmel.
Macroceramus lineahis Brug..
494 nebulosa nobis nomen nudum.
495 ignijera nobis nomen nuduni.
2.
Peristome continuous.
Deuxieme groupe.
Les Tracheloides Tracheloides.
496 sloanii nobis nomen nuduni.
497 draparnaldi nobis nomen nudum.
498 petiveriana nobis.
probablyC.
eximia Pfr..
499 blainvilliana nobis nomen nudum.
500 cylindrus Chemn.
Cylindrella.
501 rosata nobis nomen nudum 502 truncata Dillw.
Undeterminable IMegalomastoma.
503 fasciata Lam.
Undeterminable 7Megalomastoma.
504 tortuosa Chemn.
 Tortulosa tortuosa an oriental operculate.
505 gracilicollis nobis iiomen nudum.
506 perplicata nobis iiomen nudum.
507 collaris nobis.
'Oylindrella.
508 subula nobis nomen nudum.
509 antiperversa nobis iiomen nudum.
ft Aperture armed with large folds or long teeth.
510 gargantua nobis nomen nudumOdontostomus.
 Shell sinistral.
1.
Aperture without laminse.
Troisieme groupe.
Les Anomales Anomales  Pupa Drap.
511 perversa L. Balea.
512 chemnitziana nobis.
Cylindrella elongata Chemn..
2.
Aperture armed with laniinse or an elastic operculum.
Quatrieme groupe.
Les Clausilies Clausilia genre clausilie Drap.
Includes the species of Clausilia with some nomina nuda perhaps pertaining to other groups.
It will be seen that Cochlodina is a miscellaneous group including species of at least six modern genera all of which have since been named.
Under these circumstances it had better be left as a synonym of Clausilia as the diagnosis precludes its use for any of the other groups included.
1828.
Brachypus Guilding Zool.
Journal III p. 167.
Proposed for B. costatus Gldg.
Preoccupied in Aves by Swainson 1824 and in Diptera by Meigen in the same year.
1837.
Urocoptis Beck Index Moll. p. 83.
Species petiverana Fer. blainvilliana Fer. cylindrus Ch. Dw.
and Wood  rosata Fer. glandula B. abbreviata B. coardata B. List H. XXI 17 truncatula Lam.
Clausilia gracilicollis Fer.
J. E. Gray in Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1847 p. 177 selects l Turbo  cylindrus as type.
This would make the group equivalent to Thaumasia Alb.
a later name.
Von Martens in Die Heliceen 1860 names decollata Nyst as type.
This species belongs to Crosse and Fischer's later group Eucalodium  and as it does not appear in Beck's original list of species must be rejected from the group.
Urocoptis is the earliest tenable name for any genus of the family.
1837.
Brachypodella Beck Index Moll. p. 89.
Proposed for perplieata Fer. collaris Lam. subula Fer. antiperversa Fer.
1837.
Apoma Beck Index Moll. p. 89.
For elongata Chemn.
chemnitziana Fer..
Gray 1847 and Morch 1852 retain the name for this species.
1840.
Cylindrella Pfeiffer Archiv fur Naturg. p. 41.
For the following species  Gracilicollis Fer.
a Brachypodella collaris Lam.
a Brachypodelict antiperversa Desh.
a Brachypodella subula Desh.
type of the later group Mychostoma Alb.
 perplicata Fer.
a Brachypodelict chemnitziana Desh.
type species of the earlier group Apoma Beck elegans Pfr.
type of the later group Gongylostoma Alb.
 crispula Pfr.
a species of the later group Gongylostoma f torticollis Oliv.
Lam.
Clausilia of the section Bitorquata Bttg..
Another Cylindrella in Conidce was proposed in 1840 by Swainson Malacology p. 311 and still again for the group now generally known as Cylichna t. c. p. 326.
See Man.
of Conch. XV p. 287.
It is now so far as we know impossible to decide whether Pfeifler's group was published prior to Swainson's or vice versa.
Cossmann has proposed to substitute the term Distcectria q. v. for Cylindrella Pfr.
As Cylindrella is later than both Urocoptis and Brachypodella and the same name was used in the same year for two other groups we reject it from the nomenclature of this family.
1840.
Siphonostoma Swainson Treatise ou Malacol. pp.
168 333.
For costata Gldg.
and fasciata Encycl.
Meth. pi.
461 f. 17.
Name preoccupied by Voigt in Vermes 1836  also used in Rotifera 1832.
1847.
Brachypodisca Agassiz Nomenclator Zool. Index Universalis p. 51.
An emendation upon etymological grounds of Brachypodella Beck.
1850.
Thaumasia Albers Die Heliceen p. 207.
Proposed for decollata Nyst liebmanni Pfr. gruneri Dkr. cylijidrus Chemn. sanguinea Pfr. brevis Pfr. binneyana Pfr.
The two first species belong to Eucalodium the rest to the Jamaican and Haytien group of large Cylindrellas.
Name preoccupied by Perty in Arachnida 1830.
Spartina q. v. has been proposed as a substitute but it is superfluous as the grouj is a synonym of Urocoptis Beck 1837.
1850.
Mychostoma Albers Die Heliceen p. 207.
Proposed for subula Fer. collaris Fer. gracilicollis Pfr. hanleyana Pfr. pallida Guild. seminuda Adams.
In the second edition of Die Heliceen 1860 p. 37 von Martens selects C. subula as type.
1850.
Gongylostoma Albers Die Hel. p. 208.
Proposed for soiverbyana Pfr. humboldtiana Pfr. rosea Pfr. variegata Pfr. elegans Pfr. crispula Pfr. sagraiana Pfr. porrecta Gould philippiana Pfr.
From this list of species von Martens selected elegans as the type in Die Heliceen 1860 p. 88.
1850.
Casta Albers Die Heliceen p. 208 proposed for elongata Ch.
and gracilis Wood the former selected as type by von Martens 1860.
This group is absolutely equivalent to Apoma Beck 1837.
1852.
Strophina Morch. Catal.
Yoldi p. 35.
Proposed for laterradii Grat.
only.
1853.
Trachelia Pfr. Monogr.
Hel.
Viv. Ill p. 564.
Proposed for marmorata Shutt. volubilis Morel. porrecta Gld. gracillima Poey speluncoz Pfr. subtilis Morel. gouldiana Pfr. rngeli Shutt. riisei Pfr. cinerea Pfr. morini Morel. philipjriana Pfr. scalarina Shutt.
These are mainly slender Brachypodella species.
Name preoccupied by Scopoli in Aves 1777 by Serv.
in Coleoptera 1834 and by Westwood in Coleoptera 1839.
It is therefore rejected from molluscan nomenclature.
1870.
Callonia Crosse  Fischer Journal de Conch. 1870 p. 18.
Based upon one species Cyl.
elliotti Poey.
1380.
Epirobia Strebel  Pfeiffer Beitr.
zur Kenntniss der Fauna Mex.
Landund SiisswasserConch. Theil IV pp.
77 85.
Proposed for Cylindrella berendti polygyra morini not of Morelet apiostoma.
This is a valid genus well distinguished by the dentition and hollow axis.
1891.
Distectria Cossmann in Harris and Burrows Eoc.
and Oligoc.
Beds Paris Basin pp.
100 114.
Proposed as a substitute for Cylindrella Pfr. no reason being given for the change.
By reference to the list of species originally assigned to Cylindrella it will be seen that long before the year 1891 every one was amply provided with generic names Gongylostoma Alb.
and Brachypodella Beck including all of them.
The name Distwctria therefore falls as a synonym.
Being of even date with Spartina Harr.
 Burr.
q.v.
 it might possibly dispute supremacy with that term as a generic name for Cylindrella  parisientis Desh.
 but it is obvious that that species which in our opinion is not a Cylindrella nor a member of the same family does not require both a generic and subgeneric name.
1891.
Spartina Harris  Burrows The Eocene and Oligocene Beds of the Paris Basin pp.
100 113 Sept. 28 1891.
Proposed as a substitute for Thaumasia Alb. 1850 not Perty 18301834.
As Thaumasia is based partly on species of Eucalodium Crosse  Fischer 1868 and partly on species of Urocoptis Beck 1837 the name Spartina falls as a synonym under these groups unless indeed it be retained for the Paris Basin Eocene species described by Deshayes as Cylindrella parisiensis which is the only species mentioned under Spartina by Harris and Burrows.
See under Distcectria.
II.
ANALYTICAL KEY TO CYLINDRELLOID GENERA AND THEIR SUBDIVISIONS.
Exclusive of the generally recognized genera Lia Macroceramus Eucalodium etc..
I. Axis of the shell a solid not perforated column  teeth of the radula very peculiar the centrals very narrow laterals with gougeshaped cusps.
a. Radula with large posterior cusps ectocones upon all of the side teeth which are of similar form gradually becoming smaller from the inner to the outer edge of radula generally with no abrupt break in size between lateral and marginal teeth  rows slanting  en chevron  PL XVII fig.
5.
Genus UROCOPTIS Beck.
b. Axis slender and simple without spiral lamina
or other processes.
Subgenus Urocoptis.
c. Shell large stout and fusiform  axis straight.
Section Urocoptis s. s. c 1 .
Shell small thin and fusiform  axis straight.
Section Cochlodinella P.  V. c 2 .
Shell small pillarshaped  axis sigmoid below.
Section Spirostemma P.  V. b 1 .
Axis with a single strong smooth spiral lamina median in each whorl.
Subgenus Arangia P.  V. b 2 .
Axis with two series of hooks curving toward each other or with a series of oblique nodes or ribs.
Subgenus Idiostemma P.  V. b 3 .
Axis with a single stout spiral fold crenulated at the edge.
Section Maceo P.  V. 6 4 .
Axis with one or several spiral lamina the lower of which is cut into teeth or crenulated at least in the earlier whorls.
Subgenus Gongylostoma Alb.
c. Three to seven spiral laminae developed increasing in size from the upper to the lowest one which is largest.
Section Pycnoptychia P.  V. c 1 .
Three laminae the lowest smallest upper largest.
Section Callonia C.  F. c 2 .
Two subequal spirals a median whorl with accessory laminae upon the upper and basal walls.
Section Sectilumen P.  V. e 3 .
Two spirals the lower dentate in upper whorls and in an intermediate whorl expanding into a very broad flat or cuplike plate.
Section Esochara P.  V. e.
Two gradually increasing spirals the lower crenulate or denticulate  sometimes a short low third spiral interposed in an intermediate whorl.
Section Gongylostoma s. sir.
c 5 .
Two strong subequal spirals both crenulated or denticulate Haiti.
Section Amphicosmia P.  V. e 6 .
One incised or denticulate lower lamina with sometimes a smaller one above it.
Section Tomelasmus P.  V. a 1 .
Radula with the posterior cusp ectocone subobsolete or wanting on the first or both lateral teeth  two laterals on each side enormously developed the marginals abruptly smaller narrow probably functionless with vestigial cusps  arranged in horizontal lines PI.
XVII fig.
4.
Axis of the shell without laminae.
Genus BRACHYPODELLA Beck.
b.
Inner lateral tooth with a vestigial posterior cusp ectocone without cutting point  outer lateral with cutting point developed on the ectocone.
Subgenus Brachypodella.
c. Axis slender throughout rarely with a small spiral fold  shell slender and elongate.
Section Brachypodella s. str.
c 1 .
Axis strong heavily calloused  shell obese.
Section Strophina Morch.
b l .
Inner lateral tooth with no ectocone  that of the outer lateral without cutting point.
Species all Jamaican c. Axis slender straight  last whorl of shell becoming free and keeled below  aperture subcircular angular below as wide as high.
d. Shell small narrowly fusiform with strongly ribbed whorls.
Section Geoscala P.  V. d 1 .
Shell slender pillarlike white and smooth of many narrow whorls.
Section Mychostoma Alb.
c 1 .
Axis a mere edge of contact between whorls  shell white sinistral slender of many oblique whorls the last not free aperture oval longer than wide.
Section Apovia Beck.
II.
Axis of the shell a hollow column  radula of normal form and arrangement central teeth tricuspid short and wide laterals numerous similar bicuspid  marginals wide very short multicuspid PI.
XVII fig.
2.
a.
Shell very slender and elongate thin not conspicuously calcareous the axis subcylindrical or bulging in each whorl usually rugose.
Genus EPIROBIA S.  P. a 1 .
Shell stout pupiform with entire spire conspicuously calcareous etc. etc.
Genus HOLOSPIRA Mart.
III.
CLASSIFIED LISTS OF SPECIES.
As the groups defined by us in the preceding table of classification differ radically in limits from those hitherto accepted it is necessary to supplement the characterization of the genera and subgenera by detailed lists of species.
These lists contain only species whose characters we have ascertained by the examination of sections.
Those we have not been able to examine are omitted 4 although a large part of them could doubtless be approximately grouped by the published information.
The names of species of which the radula is known are distinguished by the following symbols   C F  after the name of a species indicates that the dentition has been examined by Crosse  4 The lists are therefore a catalogue of the species in the collection of the Academy excluding a considerable number of doubtful unidentified or new species.
Any forms not mentioned herein we will be glad to receive and offer an exchange for.
Fischer 5  B.
 that it has been examined by W. G. Binney  6  S P.  by Strebel  Pfeffer  7  P V. by ourselves.
Genus UROCOPTIS Beck.
This genus is restricted to Cuba Jamaica and Haiti with a few stragglers from the Cuban fauna in south Florida.
It is practically a group of the Greater Antilles.
The typical forms with the axis simple are the most widely spread and probably the oldest type.
The large stout forms being a local development common to Jamaica and Haiti.
The forms with spiral folds or other ornamentation of the axis are confined to Cuba and the adjacent portion of Haiti.
There is every reason to believe them autochthonous to Cuban soil a few species recently spreading eastward.
This genus shows the bond between Jamaica and Haiti to be rather stronger than between Cuba and Haiti the Cuban groups occurring in Haiti being represented by very few species and these restricted to the extreme western end of the island.
The elements common to Jamaica and Cuba are the more generalized and presumably older sectional groups of the genus.
Respecting the habits and environment of the Jamaican Cylindrellas of both the genera Urocoptis and Brachypodella Mr. Charles T. Simpson writes of the experiences of Mr. J.
B. Henderson and himself as follows C. sanguinea rosea obesa cylindrus aspera brevis and allied forms live on the ground among the scrub and dead leaves and are of just about the color of their surroundings.
We found C. nobilior abundant in a talus of decomposed shaly rock at Bogwalk of which it was almost exactly the color.
C. seminuda alba and robertsi are found in the crevices of craggy limestone rocks among cliffs.
C. rubra and tenella live in the ground in thickets where there is abundance of dead and decaying wood.
The shells inform and color always look exactly like pieces of broken twigs which are found abundantly with them and it was a long time before Henderson and I found a single specimen.
They are very abundant though in proper localities.
C. gracilis Wood grows invariably on the trunks and stems of trees in thick scrub.
These trees have grayish or whitish spotted bark  the little rascals attach themselves to it by the foot and stand out with the shell nearly at 5 Journal de Conchyliologie 1870.
6 Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci. III.
7 Beitr.
Mex.
Moll.
274 1898. right angles to the trunk or limb and as the shell is always more or less dirty the resemblance to a thorn is so astonishing that we doubtless passed by thousands of them never dreaming for a moment that they were Cylindrellas.
Mr. Uselma C. Smith found B. elongata living on limestone cliffs upon which the white shells hung like stalactites for which he at first mistook them.
Subgenus Urocoptis Beck.
Type V. cylindrus Chemn.
 PI.
XVIII fig.
11 axis and PI.
XVII fig.
5 dentition.
Section Urocoptis s. s. Species of Jamaica.
U. amethystina Chitty.
U. aspera Ad..
U. baquieana Chitty.
U. brevis Pfr.
C F..
U. camea Ad..
U. cylindrus Chemn..
V. gravesii Ad..
U. lata Ad..
U. megacheila Chitty.
V. nobilior Ad..
U. procera Ad..
U. rosea C. B.
Ad.
not Pfr.
C F. B. S P. P V..
U. sanguinea Pfr.
C F..
U. zonata Ad..
U. adamsiana Pfr..
U. arcuata W.  M..
U. crenata W.  M..
U. eugenii Dohrn.
U. eximia Pfr..
U. fiammidata Pfr..
Species of Hayti.
U. gruneri Pfr..
U. gnigouana Petit.
U. mabvja Weinl..
U. malleata Pfr..
U. menkeana Pfr..
U. pundurata Pfr..
Section Cochlodinella Pils.
 Van.
Type U. poeyana Orb..
Radula with 12.1.12 teeth which are typical for the genus in form but decrease rather rapidly.
Species of Cuba and Florida.
U. angulifera Gundl..
U. atropuipurea Arango.
U. goniostoma Gundl..
U. illamellata Wright.
V. jejuna Gld..
U. lactaria Gld..
U. mamillata Wright.
U. mixta Wright.
U. paradoxa Arango.
U. poeyana Orb.
B. P V..
U. presasiana Pfr..
U. variegata Pfr..
Species of Jamaica.
U. pupceformis C. B.
Ad..
U. striata Chitty.
U. augustce C. B.
Ad..
U. hollandi C. B.
Ad..
U. hydrophana Chitty.
Section Spirostemma Pils.
 Van.
Type U. rubra C. B.
Ad.
 PI.
XVIII fig.
12.
The species are all Jamaican.
U. dunkeriana Pfr..
U. montana C. B.
Ad..
U. princeps C. B.
Ad..
U.pusilla C.B.Ad..
U. rubra C. B.
Ad..
U. similis C. B.
Ad..
U. tenella C. B.
Ad..
U. tenera C.B.Ad..
Subgenus Arangia Pils.
 Van.
Type C. sowerbiana Pfr. PI.
XVIII fig.
20.
Subgeneric name in memory of the Cuban naturalist Rafeal Arango.
U. sowerbiana Pfr. Cuba.
U. monticola Weinl.
Gonave I. Subgenus Idiostemma Pils.
 Van.
Type C. uncata Gundl. PI.
XVII fig.
10.
A Cuban group containing some of the most peculiar species of the genus.
There is a series of species leading by gradual stages from the axial pairs of hooks of the typical forms to the oblique nodes or ribs of U. lateralis etc.
U. uncata Gundl..
U.perlata Gundl.
C F.P.V.
U. laevigata Gundl..
U. intusmalleata Gundl..
U. geminata Pfr..
U.fastigata Gundl..
U. lineata Gundl..
U. lateralis Paz.
P V..
Section Maceo Pils.
 Van.
Radula with the teeth very rapidly decreasing the third decidedly smaller than second formula about 8.1.8.
Subgeneric name in honor of a Cuban patriot.
U. interrupta Gundl.
P V. Cuba.
PL XVII fig.
7.
Subgenus Gongylostoma Albers.
Section Pycnoptychia Pils.
 Van.
Type U. humboldtiana Pfr.
 PI.
XVIII fig.
14.
Species all Cuban.
U. humboldtiana Pfr.
B..
U. oviediana D.
Orb..
U. scceva Gundl.
C P..
U. shidtleivorthiana Poey.
U. striatella Wright.
U. trilamellata Pfr..
U. vignalensis Wright C F.
276 Section Callonia Crosse  Fischer.
1898.
Type C. elliottii Poey.
Radula typical.
See PL XVIII fig.
18 U. dautzenbergiana Crosse.
Species all Cuban.
We have enlarged the group of Crosse and Fischer to include other Cuban species having the same internal structure and dentition.
Species elaborately sculptured with hollow ribs   U. elliottii Poey C F..
U. dautzenbergiana Crosse P V..
U. notata GundL.
U. vincta GundL.
U. saxosa Poey.
Somewhat smooth species   U. brunnescens GundL.
U. elara AVright.
U. guirensis GundL.
U. infortunata Arango.
Species with beaded suture   U. albocrenata GundL Section Sectilumen Pils.
 Van.
U. ornata GundL B. P V..
Cuba.
PL XVII fig.
9.
Section Esochara Pils.
 Van.
Type U. strangulata Poey PL XVIII fig.
15.
Distribution Cuba.
U. fabreana Poey P V..
U. teneriensis Wright.
U. strangulata Poey.
Section Gongylostoma Albers restricted.
Type U. elegans Ph.
 PL XVIII fig.
17 variety.
Also PL XVIII fig.
16 U. pruinosa.
Distribution Cuba.
U. artemesice GundL.
U. auberiana D.
Orb..
U. conereta GundL.
U. coronadoi Arang.
U. crispula Pfr..
U. elegans Pfr.
B. P V..
U.fortis GundL.
U. gutierezi Arango.
U. lavalleana Orb..
U. obliqua Pfr..
U. planospira Pfr..
U. pruinosa Morel.
P V..
Section Tomelasmus Pils.
 Van.
Type U. torquata Morel.
 PL XVII fig.
8  also PL XVIII fig.
13 U. wrighti var.
Radula typical.
Species all Cuban.
1898.
277 U. aculens Morel..
U. acus Pfr..
U. adnata Pfr..
U. affinis Pfr.
P V..
U. angustior Wright.
U. arcustriata Wr..
U. assimilis Arango.
U. capillacea Pfr..
U. coerulans Poey. '
U. colorata Arango.
U. crenulata Gdl..
U. crystallina Wright.
U. decolorata Gundl..
U. diaphana Wright.
U. discors Poey.
U. fibrosa Gundl..
U. jusiformis Wr..
U. garciana Wright.
U. heynemani Pfr..
U. hidalgoi Arango.
U. hilleri Pfr.
P V..
U. incerta Arango.
U. Integra Pfr..
U. irrorata Gundl..
U. macra Wright.
U. plumbea Wright.
U. producta Gundl..
U. sauvalleana Gundl.
P V..
U. scabrosa Gundl..
U. thomsoni Arango.
U. torqiuda Morel..
U. uvguiculata Arango.
U. ventricosa Gundl.
P V. U. violacea Wright.
U. wrighti Pfr..
Section Amphicosmia Pils.
 Van.
Type C. salleana Pfr. PI.
XVIII fig.
22.
Proposed for three San Domingo species in which the columella bears two spiral laruinse both finely denticulate.
U. salleana Pfr..
U. gracilicollis Auct..
U. hjalmarsoni Pfr..
I Genus BRACHYPODELLA Beck 1838.
In this genus the radula is more highly specialized than in Urocoptis and the shell generally less so internal armature of the axis being entirely absent or limited to a weak scarcely noticeable spiral fold above.
The geographic range of Brachypodella includes not only the territory occupied by Urocoptis but surpasses it on all sides  in the Bahamas on the north the Virgin group on the east the whole Caribbean chain and northern border of South America on the south and west and southwest is sparsely distributed over Central America and southeastern Mexico.
The distribution of the minor groups is suggestive.
The Jamaican sections form a group by themselves characterized by the extremely aberrant dentition as well as the modified shells.
The species of other islands and the mainland are decidedly less specialized 278 1898. and show but a small amount of variation in general appearance.
The section Strophina has the dentition of typical Brachypodella.
Section Brachypodella s. s. Type B. antiperversa Fer.
This subgenus has a less specialized radula and wider geographic range than the others.
The species are all small mainly quite slender forms for the most part not exhibiting great variety of form  but two exceptions may be noticed  B. brooksiana of Cuba and some related species have the neck enormously drawn out  while in some of the continental forms there is a weak spiral lamina upon the pillar.
Continental Species  Tabasco and Yucatan to Venezuela.
B. bourguignatiana Ancey.
B. hanleyana Pfr..
B. morini Morel..
B. speluncce Morel..
B. speluncce var.
dubia Pils..
B. subtilis Morel..
Insular species  Curacao and Trinidad to Porto Rico.
B. raveni Bid..
Curacao.
B. trinitaria Pfr.
P V..
Trinidad.
B. costata Gldg.
C F..
Barbados.
B. antiperversa Fer.
P V..
Guadeloupe.
B. collaris Auct.
P V..
Guadeloupe Martinique.
B. pallida Gldg..
St. John Tortola St. Thomas Porto Rico.
B. chordata Pfr..
St. Croix.
B. portoricensis Pfr..
Porto Rico.
B.riisei Pfr.
P V..
Porto Rico.
Greater Antilles  Haiti.
B. dominicensis Pfr..
B. gouldiana Pfr..
B. obesa Weinl.
 Mts..
B. smithiana Pfr..
B. weinlandi Pfr..
Greater Antilles  Cuba.
B. blainiana Gundl..
B. brooksiana Gdl.
C F. P. V..
B. camoensis Pfr..
B. capillacea Pfr..
B. cyclostoma Pfr.
B. P V..
B. modesta Poey.
B. phiUppiana Pfr..
B. plicata Poey P V..
B. porrecta Gld..
B. rugeli Shutt..
B. scalarina Shutt..
B. scopulosa Gundl..
B. sexdecimalis Jien..
B. soluta Pfr..
B. turcasiana Gundl..
B. gracillima Poey.
B. gundlachiana Poey.
B. marmorata Shutt..
B. minuta Gundl..
Bahamas.
B. bahamensis Pfr..
New Providence C F. P V..
Section Strophina Morch.
B. laterradii Grat.
P V..
San Domingo.
Section Geoscala Pils.
 Van.
Type B. seminuda C. B.
Ads..
A Jamaican group similar to some Brachypodellas except in the dentition which is of the highly evolved type seen in Mychostoma.
The shell differs from this last group in being fusiform fewer whorled and strongly costate.
B. inomata C. B.
Ad..
B. robertsi C. B.
Ad..
B. seminuda C. B.
Ad.
B. P V..
B. costulata C. B.
Ad..
Subgenus Mychostoma Albers.
Mychostoma Alb. Die Hel.
edit.
1 p. 207.
All species are Jamaican.
B. agnesiana C. B.
Ad.
C F. i B. alabastrine Pfr..
P V..
I B. pearmaniana Chitty.
B. alba Ad..
I B. subula Fer.
B..
Subgenus Apoma Beck.
Apoma Beck Index Moll. p. 89.
Casta Alb. Die He. p. 208.
A very distinct group containing two sinistral Jamaican species.
Type Turbo elongatus Wood PL XVIII fig.
21.
Von Martens objects to the name Apoma because of its inapplicability as implying that other allied groups should be operculated  but it was obviously given to direct attention to the most conspicuous difference between this group and Clausilia and from this point of view is eminently appropriate.
B. gracilis Wood C F. S P..
 B. elongata Chemn.
B. P V.J.
Genus ANOMA Albers.
1850.
Anoma Alb. Die Heliceen p. 209 for acus Pfr. gossei Pfr. tricolor Pfr.
the last selected as type by von Martens Die Hel.
2d edit. 1860 p. 269.
Not Anomus Fairm.
Hemiptera 1846.
1850.
Leia Albers Die Hel. p. 207.
Sole species L. maugeri Wood.
Not Leia Meigen in Diptera 1818 nor Meg. Coleoptera 1821.
1852.
Lia Morch Catal.
Yoldi p. 35.
Sole species L. maugeri.
Not Lia Esch. in Coleoptera 1829.
1869.
Inliaculus Schaufusa in Paetel's Moll.
Syst.
et Catal. p. 15.
1894.
Vendrysia Simpson Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. xvii p. 430.
Substitute for Leia.
Distribution Jamaica mountains of the interior.
Of the several names proposed for this group Anoma has priority.
It has the disadvantage of being preceded by Anomus which some writers would hold to be identical.
Those adhering to this view will adopt the name Inliaculus of Schaufuss  but pending some concerted action upon this point in  nymology  the oldest name may be allowed to stand.
The dentition PI.
XVII figs.
3 and 6 A. maugeri is extremely peculiar differing from that of Urocoptis in having the cusps of the teeth serrate.
A. maugeriWood.
A. blandiana Pfr..
A. macrostoma Pfr..
A. zebrina Pfr..
J. tricolor Pfr..
A. gossei Pfr..
Genus MACKOCERAMUS Guilding.
1822.
Cochlodina Ire groupe Pupoides Fer. Tabl.
Systematique p. 24 61.
1828.
Macroceramus Guilding Zool.
Journ. IV p. 168.
M. signatus.
1850.
Colobus Alb. Die Heliceen p. 177.
Not of Illiger 1811 Merrian 1820 Rept.
 or Serv. 1833 Coleopt..
For anatomy see Crosse  Fischer Journ.
de Conchyl. 1870 p. 20  Moll.
Terr.
Mex. I p. 419.
Binney Terr.
Moll. V p. 384  Ann.
N. Y.
Acad. Ill p. 126.
Strebel  Pfeffer Beitr.
Mex.
L. u. S.W.
Conch. IV p. 89.
Preponderantly Antillean this genus has representatives upon the mainland bordering the Gulf of Mexico from Venezuela to Florida.
These peripheral species are apparently all members of the section Microceramus.
In the West Indies the genus is present on nearly every island but is especially developed in Cuba to which Spiroceramus is confined.
It is poorly represented in Jamaica by a few species of ihe group Microceramus to which the species of the Bahamas likewise belong.
Synopsis of subgenera.
I. Axis slender straight and simple.
a. Macroceramus.
Shell comparatively solid and large.
Type M. signatus Gldg.
a'.
Microceramus Pils.
 Van. n. s.g..
Shell smaller thin.
Type M. floridanus Pils.
II.
Axis with a strong spiral lamina.
Spiroceramus Pils.
 Van. n. s.g..
Dentition unknown.
Type M. amplus Gundl.
Genus PINERIA Poey.
This small group originally described from the Isle of Pines but also occurring in several of the Caribbean Islands is probably an offshoot of the genus Macroceramus.
The peculiar features of the external anatomy described by Poey should be reexamined.
Genus EPIROBIA Strebel  Pfeffer 1880.
Epirobia S. ' P. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Fauna mexikanischer Landu. SiisswasserConchylien Theil IV pp.
77 85.
Type E. polygyra Pfr.
PI.
XVII fig.
2 dentition.
For figure of the axis see Strebel I. c pi.
14 f. 14.
Manywhorled slender species of Eastern Mexico usually retaining the spire intact differing from Urocoptis and BrachypodeUa in dentition and in the hollow axis.
Notwithstanding the entirely  Cylindrella like aspect of the shell externally these features unquestionably locate the group near Holospira and Coelocentrum.
Strebel and Pfeffer referred all of the Mexican Cylindrellas to their group  but it must be restricted by removal of the forms with solid axis which apparently belong to BrachypodeUa.
In addition to the two species mentioned below E. berendti Pfr.
S P. belongs here and probably gassiest Pfr.
and swiftiana Crosse also.
The  E. morini Morelet of Strebel  Pfeffer was incorrectly identified and probably a form of E. polygyra
The true C. morini is a BrachypodeUa with acutely keeled base.
E. polygyra Pfr.
S P. P V..
E. apiostoma Pfr.
8 Since this paper was written this form has been referred by Dr. von Martens to C. polygyi'ella Mts.
It is a true Epirobia.
19 Genus HOLOSPIRA von Martens.
This genus which is confined to the mainland of Mexico and the adjacent States of the Union offers an interesting series of structures in the internal lamella parallel to those of Urocoptis.
The principal divergence from that genus is in the frequent development of parietal and basal lamella which are of rare occurrence in the Antillean genera.
Professor Dall 9 who has ably investigated the subject gives the following classification which seems worthy of unqualified approval   Subgenus Holospira s. s. type N. pilocerei Pfr. with section Bostrichocentrum Strebel  Pfeffer Haplostemma Eudistemma and Distomospira Dall.
Subgenus Metastoma Strebel  Pfeffer type H. roemeri Pfr.
Subgenus Ccelostemma Dall type H. elizabethce Pilsbry.
The first group includes species with an axial plait and usually various other armature.
More or less similar structures occur in Gongylostoma.
Metastoma has the axis simple as in typical Urocoptis and Brachypodella.
In Ccelostemma a swollen vertically costulate axis is found unlike any Antillean type although there is some analogy with the subgenus Idiostemma Pils.
 Van.
Genus EUCALODIUM Crosse  Fischer.
In this Mexican genus the large solid shell resembles typical Urocoptis the axis is solid and sinuous with a continuous spiral plait as in the subgenus Arangia P.  V. of Urocoptis.
The subgenus Oligostylus Pils.
10 has the axis straight and smooth as in typical Urocoptis.
These two types of pillar are exactly paralleled also in the genus Macroceramus Gldg.
and its subgenus Spiroceramus Pils.
 Van.
Subgenus Anisospira Strebel  Pfeffer.
An eastern Mexican group of few species.
The soft anatomy is still unknown.
It seems to be a subgenus subordinate to Eucalodium.
Genus BERENDTIA Crosse  Fischer.
Like Spartocentrum to which it is closely allied  but with the axis solid slender and smooth and the spire tapering with fewer more 9 Proc U. S. National Museum xix p. 344 1896.
10 See Dall The Nautilus IX p. 51  Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
XIX p. 348. rapidly widening whorls.
The only species B. taylori Pfr. inhabits the table land of Lower California.
Genus CCELOCENTRUM Crosse  Fischer.
The hollow and usually vertically ribbed axis is unlike any of the Antillean types although radiating spines such as Dall describes in C. astrophorea recall certain forms of Gongylostoma.
In the section Spartocentrum Dall 11 there is a spiral inflation and no vertical riblets.
Genus CERION Bolt.
Morch.
See Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1896 p. 315.
This genus has generally been placed in tfye neighborhood of Pupa but it is not closely allied to that group in shell characters and is entirely diverse in genitalia.
It may possibly belong to the Odontostominoz  Odontostomus Tomigerus Anastoma of South America  but we prefer to associate Cerion with the Holospira and Eucalodium groups of Urocoptidce.
12 As this genus has been made the subject of special papers by Dr. W. H. Dall and by the present writers it need only be said here that it differs from the other genera in being strictly littoral in distribution never straying far from the sea shore.
The Miocene forms Eostrophia are probably aberrant rather than primitive in lacking parietal and axial laminae.
Genus MEGASPIRA Lea.
A Brazilian group very peculiar in its polygyrate shell with large rounded nuclear whorls plicate columella and peculiar internal armature somewhat recalling Gongylostoma Idiostemma etc.
This has been described and figured by Gabb.
13 The dentition we have now examined PI.
XVII fig.
1 the radula having been found in a dry shell.
There are 28'128 teeth arranged in slightly sinuous transverse rows and of the type usual in ground snails much like those of Eucalodium Berendtia etc.
11 See Xautilus IX p. 51 Sept. 1895 type Ccelocentrum irregulare Gabb.
The genus Teneritia Mabille Bull.
Soc.
Philomathique de Paris Ser.
8 Vol.
IX p. 791897 or 1898 is a synonym of Spartocentrum.
Types Berendtia digued and B. minorina Mabille.
M. Mabille is perfectly right in separating his group from Berendtia but he overlooks the only really important differential character viz. the hollow axis.
12 Dall has hinted at the same relationship.
See Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XIX p. 347 348 1897.
13 American Journal of Conchology II p. 64.
284 1898.
Megaspira was placed in the vicinity of Clausilia by Deshayes who thought the internal structure indicated the presence of a clausilium.
This inference does not seem justified by the facts of the case though we are far from denying its possibility  our specimen with the soft parts dried in shows no trace of a clausilium.
Upon the whole it would appear that Megaspira is an aberrant member of the Urocoptidai nearest perhaps to Eucalodium among existing genera.
The South African genus Coelaxis and the Papuan and Australian Perrieria are somewhat similar to the foregoing American genera but are doubtless correctly referred to Pupidce near Clausilia.
Perrieria has a complicated internal armature only partially worked out by Fischer.
The Colombian Rhodect is probably referable to the Achatinidce grouping near Subulina Beck type S. octona.
TABLE SHOWING GEOSRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF THE UROCOPTID.E.
Genus Urocoptis Section Urocoptis restricted.
Section Cochlodinella Section Spirostemma Subgenus Arangia Subgenus Idiostemma.
Section Maceo Subgenus Gongyiostoma Section Pycnoptychia.
Section Callonia Section Sectilumen Section Esochara Section Gongyiostoma s.s.....
Section Amphicosmia Section Tomelasmus Genus Brachypodella Section Brachypodella s.s....
Section Strophina Section Geoscala Section Mychostoma Section Apoma Genus Epirobia  Genus Holospira Genus Macroceramus Genus Anoma Lia Genus Eucalodium Genus Coelocentrum Genus Berendtia Genus Cerion OS 03 s o 00 a a KH  03 '3 N 2  a XI a o CO 3 u a en be H  o 3 o a u 5 o u o oj CD Q5 03 a 03 a a r3 03 03 03 u o o u 03 O o '3 W a 03 d O Xi 03 m                                                                                       Curacao.
      03 O CO 1898.
285 SUGGESTED PHYLOGENY OP THE GENERA AND PRINCIPAL SUBGENERA OF UROCOPTIDE.
Apoma N. Mychostoma Ufoscala.
Congylostomo Siroqhvnn  BBACHYPODELLA IdiostemmaArangia TOOCOPTIS ANOMA MACEOCEBAMUS CERION HOL0S B f B   BERENDTIA ELOCENTRUM ' EUCALODIUM Anisospira MEGASPIEA Fig.
1.
Fig.
2.
Fig.
3.
Fig.
4.
Fig.
5.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
6.
7.
8.
Fig.
Fig.
9.
10.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES.
Plate XVII.
Megaspira elata Gld.
Half of a transverse row of teeth the outermost marginals placed above to the left.
Epirobia polygyra Pfr..
The same a few outermost marginal teeth lacking.
Anoma maugeri Wood.
Group of teeth from the median part of the radula.
Brackypodella Apoma elongata Ch..
Half of a transverse row of teeth.
Urocoptis cylindrus Ch.
 very small variety from Portland Jamaica.
Half of a transverse row of teeth.
Anoma maugeri Wood.
A lateral tooth seen in profile.
Urocoptis Maceo interrupta Gundl..
Section of shell.
Urocoptis Tomelasmus torquata Morel..
Section of shell.
Urocoptis Sectilumen ornata Gundl..
Urocoptis idiostemma uncata Gundl..
Plate XVIII.
Fig.
11.
Urocoptis cylindrus Chemn.
C. rosea var.
major C. B.
Ad..
Fig.
12.
Urocoptis Spirostemma rubra C.
B..Ad..
Fig.
13.
Urocoptis Tomelasmus wrighti Pfr.
var.
Fig.
14.
Urocoptis Pycnoptychia humbohltiana Pfr..
Fig.
15.
Urocoptis Esochora strangulata Poey.
Fig.
16.
Urocoptis Gongylo stoma pruinosa Morel..
Fig.
17.
Urocoptis Gongylostoma elegans Pfr..
Fig.
18.
Urocoptis Callonia dautzenbergiana Crosse.
Fig.
19.
Brachypodella Mychostoma agnesiana C. B.
Ad..
Fig.
20.
Urocoptis Arangia soiverbiana Pfr..
Fig.
21.
Brachypodella Apoma elongata Chemn..
Fig.
22.
Urocoptis Amphicosmia salleana Pfr.
.
