ANATOMICAL NOTES ON CERTAIN WEST AMERICAN HELICES.
by h. a. pilsbry and e. g. vanatta.
1 The genus Glyptostoma.
This genus has very distinct conchological features the shell recalling the typical Zonites in form.
The jaw radula and genitalia have been investigated and figured by W. G. Binney.
From these data the senior writer placed Glyptostoma in the group Belogona Euadenia of the arrangement of Helices given in volume IX of the Manual of Conchology near the genus Epiphragniophora.
We have now examined two specimens of G. Newberryanum.
The genital system of one is figured on PI.
I fig.
1.
The two examples dissected agree perfectly in all details but in several points do not correspond with Binney's figures.
The right eye is retracted between  and 9 branches of the genitalia.
The penis is continued a short distance beyond the insertion of the vas deferens and may be regarded as having a rudimentary epiphallus the long retractor inserted thereon distally.
There is no trace of a flagellum.
Vagina long at its apex the very long duct of the spermatheca enters.
This duct is of the length of the uterus and terminates in a large globular spermatheca.
No diverticulum.
At the point where the sp.
d. enters an ovate sessile body is placed.
This has the shining fleshy muscular substance commonly seen in dart sacks  and we do not doubt that the organ is of that nature although no dart was found in either of the two individuals dissected.
The lumen presented several broad folds and no distinct apical papilla.
There is no trace of mucus glands.
The talon is unusually long.
From these characters it appears that the genus while probably belonging with the series of American dartbearing Helices is extremely isolated.
The other American genera Epiphragmoph1 The dissections and drawings of all species noticed in this paper are by Mr. Vanatta who is also responsible for all anatomical details of the several forms.
The more general discussions relating to the systematic bearings of the facts developed are by Mr. Pilsbry.
We would here acknowledge our indebtedness to Professor W. H. Dall for alcoholic specimens of several of the forms discussed below.
ora Lysinoe Leptarionta Cepolis and Polymita are all more nearly allied to each other than to Ghjptostoma
The lack of mucus glands is a degenerative feature unique in Belogona Euadenia though it occurs in the Belogona Siphonadenia.
The high insertion of the dart sack is very unusual.
The talon is longer than in any other Helix known to us.
The loss of a flagellum on the penis is unique among American Euadenioz but occurs in certain Chinese forms of Eulota and in many other Old World groups.
It is not usually a character of generic importance in Helices.
The Micrarionta group of Epiphragmophora.
Micrarionta was proposed by Mr. C. F. Ancey as a subgenus of Helix based mainly it would seem upon the small size of the shell and reflexed lip of its type H. facta.
In the  Guide to the Study of Helices the group was expanded to include the larger simplelipped Lower Californian Helices which Binney following von Martens referred to Euparypha and it was shown to have well marked anatomical features unlike any other known group of Helices.
The three subgeneric groups iuto which our West Coast Epiphragmophoras were divided in the  Guide  Micrarionta Helminthoglypta and Monadenia  differ trenchantly in the forms of their mucus glands.
In the first they are inserted by two separate ducts at the base of rather than upon the dart sack.
In the second a single duct enters the dart sack and splits into two bulbiferous branches above.
In the third there is a single clubshaped gland.
The other characters of the soft anatomy as well as the shells are not very unlike in the three groups.
Of the eleven species of Micrarionta E. intercisa and E. levis are unknown anatomically.
E. Gabbi rvficincta intercisa Kelletti and Tryoni are known to us by W. G. Binney's figures but several characters being unnoticed by Binney a reexamination of these is desirable.
We have dissected E. areolata Pandorce Veitchii Stearnsiana and Guadalupiana.
E. Guadalupiana Dall PI.
I fig.
11 genitalia differs considerably from the other species examined.
The flagellum is but little 2 Leptarionta is hardly sufficiently known to be included in this statement.
It should be stated that the shell characters of Glyptostoma are also notably different from any of the other genera named.
longer than the penis and epiphallus taken together.
The spermatheea duct bears no diverticulum.
The dart sack is degenerate reduced to a small wide bud one mucus gland arising at its right side descending club shaped the other at left side ascending and slightly sacculated  both entirely free not bound to the vagina.
The right eyeretractor passes to the left of the genital system not between its branches.
The last characters may be expected to occur in E. facta and rufieincta.
It is a very unusual feature.
The subobsolete condition of the dart sack is unlike any allied species.
The measurements are length of penisepiphallus 9 mm.
 of flagellum 10 of spermatheca duct 15 mm.
The other forms examined have the flagellum very long dart sack well developed one of the mucus glands descending spread upon the base of vagina the other upon the dart sack both bound down.
Diverticulum developed and long except in Stearnsiana.
In all the spermatheca arises high near the distal end of the vagina.
The dimensions of the parts are as follows  Pandoras.
Veitchii.
Areolata.
Stearnsiana.
Length of penisepiphallus 15 35 28 22 28 mm.
Length of flagellum 21 67 50 26 27 mm.
Length of spermatheca duct 17j 54 49 43 35 mm.
Length of diverticulum 13 43 25 1mm.
Thrown into the form of an analytical key the genital characters give these results a.
Right eye retractor passing between  and 9 branches of genitalia  diverticulum presents one mucus gland spread upon and firmly bound to vagina below dart sack.
b. Flagellum and spermatheca duct of about equal length areolata.
bb.
Flagellum longer than spermatheca duct  diverticulum f to I length of spermatheca duct much longer than the other branch.
c. Penisjepiphallus J length of flagellum .
.
.
Pandora.
cc.
Penisepiphallus about i length of flagellum .
Veitchii.
bbb.
Flagellum shorter than spermatheca duct  diverticulum very short or wanting Stearnsiana.
aa.
Right eye retractor not passing between branches of genitalia  mucus glands free no diverticulum  flagellum about the same length as penisepijhallus.
b.
Dart sack degenerate very small Guadalupia'na.
No further details of the genitalia are needed except such as are clearly shown in the figures and of course some variation in the absolute dimensions of various organs is to be expected.
Details are lacking to intercalate the other species of the subgenus in the above synopsis but from Binney's figures it seems that E. Kelletti and Tryoni fall into  bb.
of the first division a.
of this dichotomous table and it is likely that E. ruficincta and facta group in the second division aa.
They differ from E. Guadalupiana Dall in having the dart sack well developed.
The position of the eye retractor muscle is unknown.
Neither of them has a diverticulum on the spermatheca duct.
E.Stearnsiuna differs considerably from areolata Pandorce Veitchii and according to Binney's figures Kelletti in having the diverticulum short or obsolete.
Two specimens were dissected both from Coronado Islands.
In one 66091 A. N. S. P.
Mus. coll.
by A. W. Anthony there is no trace of a diverticulum.
In the other 69014 from Prof. W. H. Dall there is a very short diverticulum about 1 mm.
long arising slightly beyond the lower fourth of the length of spermatheca duct.
In this specimen the duct is 8 mm.
shorter than in the other.
Binney's figure shows a somewhat longer diverticulum than our No.
69014 but it is still very short.
This variation in the diverticulum is exactly paralleled in the European Helix pomatia.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE I.
Note.
 The shells of the specimens furnishing the genitalia figured as well as the dissections may be found in the collection of the Academy bearing numbers corresponding to those given below.
Div. diverticulum of the spermatheca duct.
d. s. dart sack.
Jl. flagellum.
m. gl.
as. ascending mucous gland m. gl.
des. descending ditto p. penis r. p. penis retractor muscle ..spermatheca.
sp.
d. duct of the spermatheca.
t. talon vag. vagina.
Fig.
1.
Glyplostoma Newberryanum W. G.
B..
Pasadena Cal.
No.
68997.
Fig.
2.
Epijihragmophora Veitchii Newc.
Cerros Is. of Lower Cal.
No.
69647.
Fig.
3.
The same individual other side of the dart sac and adjacent organs.
Fig.
4 5.
Ep ip hragmophora Pandora 3  Bonitosensis Pils.
Las Bonitos Is. off Lower California.
No.
66092.
Fig.
6 7.
Epiphragmophora areolata Sowb..
Natividad Is.
No.
69646.
In fig.
6 the opposite side of dart sack and associated organs is seen and the spermatheca duct with its diverticulum torn free from the uterus.
Fig.
8.
Epiphragmophora Stearnsiana Gabb.
Coronado Is.
No.
69014. 
Fig.
9 10.
Another specimen from the same locality No.
66091 showing no trace of the diverticulum upon spermatheca duct.
Fig.
11.
Epiphragmophora Guadalupiana Dall.
Guadalupe I. off Lower Cal.
No.
69648 Drawn to double the scale of other figures of this plate.
