NOTES ON THE FOSSIL WALRUS OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
In the eleventh volume of the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, 1 Dr. Joseph Leidy describes and figures two specimens of fossil walrus obtained on the coast of New Jersey, and discusses the relationships of the recent and fossil forms of Atlantic walrus.
In his opinion there is no foundation for a distinction between the existing species and the so-called Trichechus virginianus of DeKay, 2 based on a fossil walrus skull from Accomac County, Virginia.
In the eighth volume of the Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, published twenty years subsequent to his paper in the Transactions of the Philosophical Society above referred to, Dr. Leidy describes a walrus tusk from the phosphate beds of Ashley River, South Carolina.
This specimen he compares with the tusks of a large skull in the museum of the Academy from Nova Scotia, and concludes that the characters of the South Carolina specimen are not of sufficient value to determine whether it pertained to a species distinct from the living one.
The specimen from Nova Scotia, thus casually referred to by Dr. Leidy, is yet in the museum of the Academy, and is by far the most complete fossilized cranium of an adult animal of which we have any record.
Before passing to a further consideration of the specimens described by Leidy, it should be stated that Dr. J.
A. Allen, in his Memoir of the Pinnipeds 3 also records 4 a skeleton of a fossil walrus " with tusks over five inches long " in the quaternary clays of Portland, Maine.
Dr. Allen does not seem to have examined any fossil specimens of walrus, nor does he venture an opinion as to the specific value of the so-called fossil species.
From his full quotations of Leidy, however, it is evident that Dr. Allen was inclined to coincide with the determinations of so eminent an authority.
1 New Series, pp.
83-86, pi.
4, and 5.
2 Nat.
Hist.
N. York, Zool., I, p. 56, pi.
19, fig.
1, a, b.
3 U. S. Geol.
Surv., Misc.
Pub , XII, 1880.
4 See also Amer.
Nat., Sept., 1878, p. 633.
With the specimen from Nova Scotia above alluded to is a memorandum, evidently penned by the sender and donor of the specimen.
It reads : — " Office of School Commissioners, 48 George Street [Halifax], 187[1].
Skull of a walrus (Trichecus rosmarus) Sable Island, Nova Scotia.
The walrus is now extinct in Nova Scotia.
It was last seen alive on Sable Island sand beaches.
There must have been a considerable number on the island, as a great many of their skulls have been thrown up on the beaches at intervals after heavy gales.
The specimen sent was found some two years since, and as none have been found since then, I am inclined to think it the last of the series.
You will observe that the tusks are partly fossilized.
— J. R.
W[illis]."
This specimen is recorded in the Proceedings of the Academy for 1871, and classified among recent vertebrate material.
This fact and the tenor of Dr. Leidy's remarks regarding it show that he did not consider it a fossil.
This is remarkable, as the specimen is of precisely the same nature in color, texture and specific gravity as the larger fossil specimen which Leid} r described and figured in the Philosophical Transactions, and which came from the beach at Long Branch, New Jersey.
Undoubtedly the Sable Island specimen is of the same age and derivation from an ancient raised sea beach stratum as were the two specimens obtained on the shores of New Jersey, the skeleton from the quaternary clays of Portland, Maine, and the type of DeKay's Trichechus virginianus from the sea beach of Accomac County, Virginia.
For this reason all of these fossil specimens are taken in the following study as typical of the supposed fossil species of Atlantic walrus as compared with the animal now existing on our North Atlantic Coasts of America.
Of the four fossil specimens mentioned, three are now in the custody of the Academy of Natural Sciences, the one from Sable Island and the more perfect of the two New Jersey specimens figured by Dr. Leidy, being the property of the Academy.
The third specimen is the anterior half of the cranium from Long Branch, loaned to Dr. Leidy by Prof. Geo.
Cook, and figured in the Transactions of the Philosophical Society.
It was recently purchased from Prof. Ward of Rochester, N. Y., by the New Jersey Geological Survey for its museum at Trenton, and through the courtesy of Prof. J.C. Smock, was loaned to Mr. Lewis Woolman, of Philadelphia, for use in this connection.
It is to the efforts of Mr. Woolman and his scientific interest in the work of the Survey, as well as his devotion to original research in the Academy of Natural Sciences that the facts contained in this paper are now made accessible.
Mr. Woolman's attempt to locate DeKay's type of T. virginianus resulted in the discovery that this specimen was destroyed by fire with the other objects of natural history in the museum of the old New York Lyceum of Natural History, now known as the New York Academy of Sciences.
The loss of this specimen, together with the inadequate description of its characters and the crude nature of DeKay's figure of it make the use of the name virginianus for an extinct species of walrus questionable, even in the event of proof that the other fossil specimens represent a different species from that now existing.
However if the characters of these latter can be shown to indicate such a state of affairs and at the same time show no radical differences from what we know of the type of virginianus, it is eminently proper that that name should be applied to them, and the extinct walrus of the glacial period be so distinguished from Rosmarus rosmarus.
As Leidy has already shown, DeKay's brief diagnosis of virginianus 5 is equally applicable to Rosmarus rosmarus, and had he not figured the specimen, we would now, on account of the loss of the type, be forced to make virginianas a probable synonym of rosmarus.
The fact, however, that the type was a fossil and was figured, and that it, in all probability, represented the same species as the fossil skulls from New Jersey and Sable Island, makes the name as tenable as ever for a possible species of fossil walrus.
The characters of all the fossil specimens show conclusively their closer affinity to rosmarus than to obesus of the Pacific Ocean, except in the relative size of the molars.
In this respect they approach more nearly the Pacific species as represented in the skull of an old male from Alaska, in which the molars are very large and rounded.
The canine tusks of the fossil specimens are characteristic of the rather short, heavy, decurved and spreading form seen in rosmarus.
In respect of the ratio of the extreme facial width across the maxillaries to the greatest occipital width, it is noticeable that the fossil specimens come much nearer to obesus, in which the differences between these dimensions are much less than in rosmarus.
In the fossil specimen from Nova Scotia the maxillary expansion is 203 mm., and the paroccipital expansion (adding 10 mm.
for wear) 5 It reads: "Cheek teeth with obliquely truncate crowns, not ridged; the second smaller than the first."
is 278 mm.
In a very old male specimen of obesus from Alaska these measurements are respectively 220 mm.
and 295 mm.
In a somewhat younger but adult west Greenland specimen of rosmarus these dimensions are 195 mm.
and 295 mm.
Viewed anteriorly, the facial outline of the fossil specimens, especially in the oldest New Jersey example, shows affinity with the rosmarus type in the relatively greater ratio of width to height, and in the Sable Island skull the median projection of the premaxillaries extends considerably beyond the anterior plane of the maxillaries into a blunt, beaklike process.
In the very old recent Alaskan specimen the premaxillaries are on a plane with the maxillaries at this point, and their median suture recedes behind them at its anteroinferior border in a sort of hare-lip conformation.
The three fossil specimens are remarkable for the great relative size of the nasal bones.
The New Jersey specimen now belonging to the Geological Survey of that State is much wider across the maxillaries than the widest recent or fossil walrus skull in the custody of the Academy, and is from a very old individual.
While we would expect a corresponding width of the nasal bones, these are, nevertheless, correspondingly long, also, presenting an area nearly twice as great as in the largest recent walrus skulls in the collection.
The smaller New Jersey specimen, belonging to the Academy, also has a correspondingly large nasal area.
The nasal sutures in the process of fossilization become sufficiently well-defined, even in the oldest specimens, to determine their area.
In the larger New Jersey specimen the greatest nasal length is 98 mm., and the greatest width 80 mm.
In the smaller one these dimensions are 96 mm.
and 81 mm.
In the largest Greenland specimen they are 72 mm.
and 65 mm., and in the largest Alaskan specimen 72 mm.
and 64 mm.
Turning now to the upper maxillary dentition, a comparison between the fossil and recent specimens of aged individuals shows the following marked differences in the permanent teeth.
6 In recent rosmarus of nearly the same size as the smaller New Jersey fossil specimen and 25 mm.
shorter in basilar length than the Nova Scotia fossil, all the grinding teeth average about one-half the dimensions of the fossil specimens, and making allowance for 6 I adopt the dental formula of Dr. Allen's Monograph of the Pinnipeds, page 57. the difference in age they are more than one-third smaller.
In the fossil specimens the permanent incisor exceeds the grinders both in triturating area and in alveolar depth and calibre.
In rosmarus and obesus this tooth is much smaller than — .
The posterior molar ("id!)
in the fossil skulls (excepting the one belonging to the New Jersey Geological Survey), 7 is a deeply rooted tooth of nearly the same calibre and triturating area as n ^ 2 .
In both rosmarus and obesus it is the smallest and shallowest rooted of the permanent dentition and is sometimes wanting in aged specimens.
Another marked character which is peculiar to the two fossil specimens belonging to the collection of the Academy, and in some degree to the specimen of the Geological Survey, is the remarkable median depression of the maxillae at the incisive foramina, and the constriction of tlie inter-incisor space.
In the Sable Island example the depth of the incisive foramina below the crown of °^i is 64 mm.
and the distance between the alveoli of the permanent incisors is only 17 mm.
In the Long Branch skull it is about the same.
In the recent Greenland specimen these measurements are 41 mm.
and 30 mm., and in the Alaskan specimen 50 mm.
and 30 mm.
While the foregoing comparisons were made with an amount of material far more comprehensive than that accessible to Dr. Leidy, and supplemented by the valuable diagnoses, figures and tables of measurements given by Dr. J.
A. Allen, the author regrets that a larger series of adult crania of our living species of walrus was not available.
Premising, however, that the recent skulls used in this comparison are typical in essential characters of rosmarus and obesus, and that the fossil skulls, including the type of virginianus, all represent a period of Pleistocene Age, the writer concludes that the weight of evidence favors the separation of the fossil and recent species of Atlantic walrus under the following diagnoses: Rosmarus rosmarus (Linnasus).
Recent Atlantic Walrus.
Phoca rosmarus Linnreus ; Syst.
Nat., 1758, p. 38.
Rosmarus rosmarus Rhoads; Airier.
Nat., 1894, p. 523.
Characters.
— Ratio of greatest anterior maxillary width to the paroccipital expansion, as 2 to 3 ; permanent upper incisor much smaller than — ; — 3 smallest, shallow-rooted, in old adults sometimes absent; superior grinders relatively weak, the opposing rows separated by a wide incisive diastema twice the width of the largest 7 In this the posterior molars have fallen out, the alveoli showing them to have been of large calibre but quite shallow.
molar ; roof of mouth gently, evenly rounded, shallow between the grinders ; incisive foramina small, not indented, their distance below the alveolus of Hii only equalling the distance between the two opposing permanent incisors; nasals small, short, rectangular.
Rosmarus virginianus (DeKay).
Fossil Atlantic Walrus.
Trichechns virginianus DeKay; Nat.
Hist.
N. York, I, p. 56, pi.
19, fig.
1, a, b.
Characters.
— Ratio of greatest anterior maxillary width to paroccipital expansion, as 2 to 2f ; permanent upper incisor as large as — ; — 3 larger than 5^1, nearly as large as permanent incisor, deeply rooted, persistent; superior grinders massive, crowded, the opposing rows separated by a narrow incisive diastema about as wide as the largest molar : root of mouth deeply furrowed between the grinders ; incisive foramina large, acutely indented ; their depth below the alveolus of ^ being twice as great as the space between the two opposing permanent incisors : nasals large, relatively long, becoming much wider anteriorly.
It should be understood that the above diagnosis of the fossil walrus rests chiefly on the Sable Island specimen, and the finer skull belonging to the Academy from New Jersey which Leidy figured on plates 4 and 5 of volume XI of the Philosophical Transactions.
Both these skulls evidently belonged to very old males.
In some respects, as in the relative sizes of the teeth to each other, the other New Jersey specimen and the plate of DeKay's virginianus agree in their closer approach to the existing walrus.
Owing to their fragmentary condition, as compared with the Sable Island and Long Branch specimen, and the fact that the latter two agree exactly in all the characters enumerated, it is best to consider these as typical of the fossil animal.
As DeKay's type is destroyed and his diagnosis and plate of little value, I would recommend that if the characters pointed out in this paper as distinguishing the fossil from the recent Atlantic walrus are sufficiently confirmed by other specimens to warrant their separation, that DeKay's name be retained.
The evidence in favor of DeKay's fossil being the same as rosmarus and the other fossil specimens a distinct species, to which the name virginianus cannot apply, is too flimsy to merit attention.
14 202 proceedings of the academy of [1898.
April 5.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Seventeen persons present.
The death of Oliver A. Judson, M. D., a member, was announced.
April 12.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Twenty-six persons present.
Prof. Pilsbry made a communication on the natural history of slugs.
(No abstract.)
April 19.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Nineteen persons present.
The Function of the Radula.
— Mr. H. A. Pilsbry spoke of a radula of the gastropod Nerlta peloronta exhibited by Mr. Keely, mentioning its great length compared to that of the animal, and the large number of similar teeth at the margins.
The modifications found by Fischer in the radula of Neritopsis and by the speaker in that of Orthomesus and the Helicidre indicate that specialization in the Rhipidoglossa and Pulmonata has proceded from the median line of the radula outward, the outer teeth being the last to be modified, and therefore of value as indicating the ancestral condition ; this mode of modification being probably the result of the greater functional activity of the median portion in feeding, due to the rounded shape of the subradular cartilage.
Mr. Calvert stated that the position of the radula in squids recently dissected by him seemed to preclude the use of that organ as a rasp, as described for snails.
Mr. Pilsbry replied that he had not observed any cephalopod feeding, but supposed that the radula here acted as an aid to deglutition, crowding the fragments, taken in the beak, down the oesophagus.
Dr. Chapman observed that he had often observed squids eating fish, and the beaks alone were used to bite the prey.
He further alluded to the impossibility of keeping squids in aquaria owing to their incessant activity.
They constantly dart against the glass and soon die from the mutilation ensuing.
1898.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
203 April 26.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Twenty-six persons present.
A paper entitled " Materials toward a Natural Classification of the Cylindrelloid Snails," by Henry A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta, was presented for publication.
Rock Inscriptions in Kauai, Hawaiian Islands.
— Dr. Benjamin Sharp exhibited a specimen of coquina received from Mr. J. K. Farley of Kauai.
He had visited Mr. Farley in 1893 with the hope of seeing some rock inscriptions usually covered with sand.
An effort to uncover the rocks and expose the inscriptions had then been unsuccessful, although the bed rock had been reached at a depth of six feet.
The following letter, accompanied by drawings of the inscriptions, has recently been received : — Koloa, Kauai, Hawaiian Islands, July 13th, 1897.
Dr. Benj.
Sharp, Dear Sir: — When you were here in October, 1893, I promised you that I would send you any new information that I might obtain regarding the figures cut into the sandstone 1 ledge at Keoneloa, also diagrams of them if I ever saw them again.
On June 15th a native fisherman told me that the drawings were exposed to view at low tide.
I went to Keoneloa June 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th and 21st, and send you herewith, in another package, the result of the visits.
On the last date I could do nothing but try cutting the rock with a hatchet and an old native stone adze, as a high surf was fast covering the ledge again with sand.
With a hatchet one could, I think, make a four foot figure in about two hours, steady work ; with the adze it would take at least six times as long, and use up a number of such tools.
Most of the figures look as if they had been cut with a semi-pointed implement like a rounded cold chisel.
With the corner of the stone adze I was able to make about the same kind of a cut.
A whirling motion that I noticed the waves as they ran off the rock gave to the sand, lodged it in the cuts and this may have worn the cutting into the sort of rounded pockets noticed.
I had a talk, June 17th, with an old native woman named Kauila, who has lived near Keoneloa for many years.
She said : — " I first saw the pictures when I was about thirteen years old (that was in 1848).
I went to see them with my school-teacher and his other scholars and two Roman Catholic priests.
My teacher's name was Alexandro, a Frenchman.
He was the first Roman 1 The rock is coquina, not sandstone.
Catholic priest in Koloa and built the Roman Catholic Mission buildings.
We saw all the picture rocks exposed ; you have only seen a part of them to-day.
The priest went home with me from Keoneloa and talked with my father, Walewale, and with my grandfather, and also with a number of other old natives (in those days there were many old people in the land) about the drawings.
They had all seen the pictures but had never heard who cut them, or why they were done.
The oldest folks said that their fathers and grandfathers had told them that the pictures had always been there."
The sand-hills to the west of Keoneloa are said to have been old battle-fields.
They were certainly used as burial grounds as we know.
2 Fugitives from the Oahu wars are said to have landed at Keoneloa and to have been killed and buried in these sand-hills by Koloa natives.
Alexander, in his " Brief History of the Hawaiian People," Chap.
15, says "About the end of the 13th century, Kalaunuiohua, a warlike and ambitious Moi (King) of Hawaii, undertook to subdue the whole group ... he defeated the leading chiefs of Maui, Molokai and Oahu.
... he set sail for Kauai .
.
.
and landed near Koloa, where he was met by Kukona, at the head of the warriors of Kauai, and was totally defeated, his fleet being taken, his army destroyed.
It was about this time that a vessel called 'Mamala' in the tradition, arrived at Kahului, in Maui.
The captain and crew are said to have been foreigners of light complexion, with bright eyes, who intermarried with the natives and became progenitors of a light colored stock.
As there were no Europeans in the Pacific Ocean in the 13th century, it is most probable, as Judge Fornander has suggested, that these foreigners were the crew of some Japanese iunk, driven out of its course by a typhoon, and drifted to these shores, as has twice happened in recent times.
Also, about the year 1527-28, Spaniards, a man and his sister, were saved from a wreck on Hawaii .
.
.
they intermarried with the natives and became the progenitors of certain well-known families of chiefs, such as that of Kaikeowa, former Governor of Kauai."
Jarvis, in his history of the islands, says, " Cook found in the possession of the natives of Kauai two pieces of irou, one a portion of a hoop, and the other appeared to be part of the blade of a broadsword."
" The knowledge and use of iron was generally known."
Kauila's story would take us back to the early part of the 17th century, without a tradition of the workers.
The cross and the flag (?)
3 make me think that foreigners may have had a hand in the work, or may have given the natives, if they did the work, a knowledge of those emblems.
Were it not for them one might think that the pictures were done by a party of 1 We obtained, when with Mr. Farley, a number of bones and one complete skeleton.
3 Referring to the drawing sent with the letter.
North-west Indians, who could, I believe, easily, in their large canoes, sail or drift down to the islands with the currents, in a shorter time than a Japanese junk could.
One can usually see half a dozen N. W. drift logs on the beach at Keoneloa.
On the beaches of Niihau, some fifty miles away, hundreds of logs and Red Wood posts have been picked up a few months after freshets on the Pacific coast of the U. S. and B.
C, had washed out the logging dams of the saw mills.
The last figure on my diagram, I take it, was made to represent a woman in parturition.
P. S. Since writing the foregoing, I have seen Dr. Emerson of this place.
He tells me that eight or nine years ago, he saw on the beach at Houaunau, Kona, Hawaii, somewhat similar drawings, cut into lava rock.
Honaunau is not far from Keei, the place at which the Spanish man and woman are said to have lauded in about 1527-28.
The natives of Hawaii know nothing of the workers.
Dr. Emerson says: Kackeoewa came from a Hawaiian family.
My "cross" may be a totem.
Mr. Wm.
W. Jefferis was appointed Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections for the current year.
The following were appointed the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award for 1898 : — Messrs Persifor Frazer, Angelo Heilprin, Theodore D. Rand, Benjamin Smith Lyman, and Jos.
P. Lesley.
The following were ordered to be printed : —
