CHITONS COLLECTED BY DR. HAROLD HEATH AT PACIFIC GROVE NEAR MONTEREY CALIFORNIA.
BY H. A. PILSBRY.
During the summer of 1897 Dr. Heath collected a series of invertebrates and fishes for the Academy including some twentyfour species and varieties of Polyplacophora.
As he has kindly engaged to collect again during the present season a full report on the Chitons with illustrations of new unfigured and unusual forms may be deferred until further specimens come to hand  but it may be well to enumerate the forms already seen and describe two which seem to be new.
It is evident that the Mopalias require more study than has yet been given them.
At Pacific Grove the typical muscosa typical lignosa and typical Hinclsii occur without so far as the series seen shows any specimens of intermediate character.
The reference of these to one species may therefore have been premature.
A Mopalia described below differs from those hitherto known in the perfectly regular form of the tail valve which is like that of Ischnochiton thus breaking down in large measure the distinction between the Ischnochitonidce and the Mopaliidce.
This lawless species is new and I have given myself the pleasure of associating the name of my friend Dr. Heath with it.
The occurrence of two sevenvalved adult monsters is also notable.
I shall return to these on a later occasion.
LEPIDOPLETJRIDI.
Lepidopleurus rugatus Cpr.
Lepidopleurus nexus Cpr.
ISCHNOCHITONID.
Tonicella lineata Wood.
Trachydermon Cyanoplax Raymondi Pils.
A small form of the species occurring in tide pools.
Trachydermon Cyanoplax Hartwegi Cpr.
Ischnochiton radians Cpr.
This species is very similar to I. inter stinctus Gld. but the teeth are longer and the slits decidedly deeper.
Isohnocbiton scabricostatus Cpr.
var.
Ischnocbiton regularis Cpr.
One specimen has but seven valves but in all other respects is perfectly normal.
Iscb.nocb.iton Mertensii Midd.
Iscbnocbiton Cooperi Cpr.
Iscbnocbiton decipiens var.

sinudentatus Cpr.
Ischnocbiton Stenoradsia Magdalenensis Hinds.
Callistocbiton crassicostatus Pils.
Callistocbiton palmulatus var.
mirabilis Pils.
Cbaetopleura gemmea Cpr.
Nuttallina Californica ' Nutt. '
Rve.
NuttallinaThomasi Pilsbry n. sp.
In tide pools with Tr.
Raymondi.
See below.
MOPALIIDiE.
Mopalia muscosa Grid.
Typical.
Mopalia muscosa lignosa Gld.
Typical.
Mopalia muscosa Hindsii 'Sow.'
Rve.
Typical.
Mopalia Heathii Pilsbry.
See below.
Mopalia ciliata Sow.
Typical.
Placipborella velata Cpr.
ACANTHOCHITID.SI.
Katharina tunicata Wood.
Cryptochiton Stelleri Midd.
One full grown specimen is 7valved otherwise normal.
Mopalia Heatbii n. sp.
Oblong rather elevated carinated with nearly straight side slopes  surface smoothish to the naked eye lusterless and in color 1 olivegreen with some lighter spots or purplish maculation or slight roseate suffusion or 2 vivid red with scattered blue spots.
Valves shaped as in M. lignosa but without a median anterior projection of the tegmentum the intermediate valves very faintly radially trisulcate at the sides the anterior two grooves defining the low slight and inconspicuous diagonal rib the lateral areas not raised  entire surface very finely and evenly granulate the granules small rather pointed separated intervals very minutely radially wrinklegranulate.
Anterior valve with a few faint shallow radial furrows.
Posterior valve with semicircular posterior outline the mucro in front of the middle of tegmentum profile of the surface in front of it convex that of the posterior slope decidedly concave.
Interior deep rose color or slightly purplish  sutural laminae and sinus about as in lignosa.
Teeth rather long and somewhat roughened as in lignosa.
Valve i with 8 slits  iivii with 11  valve viii entirely  Ischnoid with regular crescentic insertion plate cut by 7 or 8 slits which are somewhat closer posteriorly  no sinus behind.
Girdle leathery nude except for solitary or two or three closely grouped long bristles at all or part of the sutures one on each side of the head valve and two behind the tail valve.
Gills about 25 on each side not extending quite to the anterior end of the foot.
Length 25 width 12 mm.
dried specimen or smaller.
In one specimen there are 9 bristles on each side and one in the middle in front.
Another lacks this median bristle  and in still another some of the sutures are without bristles.
In all some of them are broken off close to the girdle leaving only stumps or pores.
This form resembles M. simiata and imporcata in the sutural bristles but differs from them in sculpture and form of the tail valve.
The latter is completely as in Ischnochiton and its form is approached only by M. acuta Cpr. which however has a slight caudal sinus much stronger sculpture more depressed and more posterior mucro and scattered hairs on the girdle without sutural bristles.
It is also bluegreen or pale blue inside while 31.
Heathii is rose colored.
One of the specimens was dredged in 17 fms.
 station of the others unknown.
Nuttallina Thomasi n. sp.
General form oblong rather depressed not keeled dorsally  surface granulose when not eroded.
Color blackish or dark brown with a whitish band on each side of the median line of back or irregular whitish maculation  girdle dark.
Intermediate valves short and wide with a slight or hardly noticeable depression on each side of the jugum and others in front of and behind the scarcely defined obsolete diagonal convexity the anterior and posterior margins subparallel slightly arcuate.
Anterior valve granulate without radial ribs the posterior margin excavated mesially.
Posterior valve with tegmentum slightly wider than the anterior the obtuse mucro somewhat behind the middle.
Interior bluegreen with the area behind the valvecallus dark brown or livid purplish with light sutural laminae and bluegreen area behind the sinus.
Slits in valve i 9 or 10 valves ii to vii 11  valve viii 10 or 11.
Teeth rather separated those of valve i unequal slightly rugose outside posterior tooth of valves ii to vii small very obliquely directed forward  teeth of valve viii very short strongly directed forward and roughened.
Sinus wide and square spongy the area behind it transversely grooved.
Eaves rather wide  spongy  or porous.
Girdle sparsely covered with short rigid obtuse glossy spines of a blackishbrown color or occasionally some are whitish.
Gills in type specimen 26 on left 23 on right side  not quite reaching the anterior end of the foot.
In another there are 23 on the left 25 on the right side.
Length 15 breadth 8 mm. or smaller.
Pacific Grove in small tidepools 4 to 8 ft. above mean tide mark.
This species differs markedly from N. Californica ' Nutt.'
Rve.
and N. fluxa Cpr.
1 in the shorter valves lack of radial ribs on the anterior and intermediate valves and more anterior mucro of the posterior valve and the single slitting of valves ii to vii.
I at first considered it a Middendorffia but the girdle is like that of Ntittallina not having the peculiarly modified spines of the Mediterranean Middendorffia.
It lives with a small form of Traehydermon  Cyanoplax Raymondi which is much more numerous in the tidepools.
From that species it may be known by the spiny girdle.
Nearly all the specimens collected are much eroded.
This species may be considered the type of a new subgenus of Nuttallina with the following differential characters Intermediate valves with 11 slits anterior valve not radially ribbed  posterior valve with the mucro postmedian but not terminal.
Other characters as in Nuttallina.
At Mr. Heath's request it is named in honor of Mr. Thomas who found the first specimens.
1 Ch.
scaber Rve. 1847 not of Blainville 1825.
