DIPTERA COLLECTED BY DR. A. DONALDSON SMITH IN SOMALILAND, EASTERN AFRICA.
BY CHAS.
W. JOHNSON.
The Diptera described and listed in this and the following paper by Dr. Garry de N. Hough, were collected by Dr. Smith on his expedition through Somaliland from Berbera to Lake Rudolf, thence southeast to the coast.
1 All of the specimens have been presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by Dr. Smith.
In studying this material I have had to depend entirely on descriptions, and one important paper I have been unable to consult, so that a few species have had to be set aside for the present.
For any error, therefore, that may occur in their identification, I wish to beg kind indulgence.
I also wish to express my sincere thanks to Dr. Hough for his kindness in working up the Muscidse.
CTJLICIDiE.
Culex sp.
Two specimens, Sheikh Husein.
Oct. 7th.
Too imperfect for determination.
STRATIOMYID^.
Sternobrithes tumidus Loew.
Sternobrithes tumidus Loew, Oefers.
Kongl.
Akad.
Forhand., 264, 1856.
One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894.
TABANIDJE.
Pangonia obesa Walker.
Pangonia obesa Walker.
Insecta Saund.
I, 14.
Five specimens 9 collected at Sheikh Husein, Sept. 20, 1894, agree with Walker's description.
Pangonia appendiculata Macquart.
Pangonia appendiculata Macq.
Dipt.
Exot.
I, 97, PI.
13, fig.
2. ?
Pangonia varicolor Wied.
Auss.
Zweifl., I, 100.
One specimen ( <?
), Abula, November 25, 1884.
Ckrysops stigmaticalis Loew.
Chrysops stigmaticalis Loew.
Dipt.
-Faun.
Ind-Afri.
(101), 29, I860; Oefers.
Kongl.
Akad.
Forhand., 338, 1857.
One specimen ( 9 ), Sheik Mahomet.
November 9, 1894.
1 See Dr. Smith's article and maps, in The Geographical Journal for August and September, 1896.
Tabanus biguttatus Wiedemann.
Tabanits biguttatus Wied.
Auss.
Zweifl., II, 623, 20.
Tabanus tripunctifera Walk.
Zool., VIII, Append.
XCV ; List, etc.pt.
V, 227.
Tabanus cerebes Walk.
List, etc , pt.
I, 149.
Tabanus noctis Walk.
Insecta Saund.
I, 42.
Tabanus cilipes Macq.
Dipt.
Exot., I, 1, 120.
One specimen ( $ ), Mt.
Kulol, August 27, 1895.
This seems to be a widely distributed and variable species.
The male has two white spots on the third and fourth segments of the abdomen.
I am indebted in part to Mr. E. E. Austen of the British Museum for the above synonymy.
Tabanus maculatissimus Macquart.
Tabanus maculatissimus Macq.
Dipt.
Exot, 1, 1, 121, Tab.
17, f. 2; Walker List, etc., V, 227.
One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 15, 1894.
Hsematopota albihirta Karsb.
Hcematopota albihirta Karsh, Berl.
Ent.
Zeit., 1887, 371, Taf.
IV, fig.
4.
One specimen, December 12, 1894.
Hsematopota maculiplena Karsb.
HcEmatopota maculiplena Karsh, Berl.
Ent.
Zeit., 1887, 371, Tab.
IV, fig.
5.
Two specimens, El Dere, March 22, 1895.
The specimens are badly broken, but agree well with the description of this species.
ASLLID^.
Hoplistomera serripes Fabr.
Laphria 'serripes Fabr .
Syst.
Antl., 159, 16.
Laphria maculipennis Macq.
Hist.
Nat.
Dipt., I, 285,22.
Hoplistomera serripes Macq.
Dipt.
Exot, I, 2, 60.
One specimen, near Lake Stefanie, June 5, 1895.
Laxenecera zonata Loew.
Laphria zonata Lcew.
Bericlit des Konigl.
Preuss.
Akad.
d. Wissensch.
zu Berl.
1852, 659.
Laxenecera zonata Loew.
Karsch, Berl.
Ent.
Zeit., XXXI, 374, 1887.
Four specimens, Sheikh Husein, September 29-30, 1894.
Laxenecera sp.
One specimen, Sheikh Mahomed, November 6, 1894.
BOMBYCIDJE.
Exoprosopa suffusa Klug.
Anthrax suffusa Klug.
Ehrenberg, Sym.
Phys.
(Ins.
Afr.
Boreal, et Asia Occident.).
12, Tab.
XXX, fig.
2, 1832.
Two specimens, Sheikh Hausin, September 23-28, 1894.
This species is beautifully figured in the work referred to.
It is not the Anthrax sufficsa Walker, (List, etc., pt.
II, 251), described without habitat.
As it is undoubtedly an Exoprosopa, the two names can remain.
It is allied to Anthrax vespertilioni Meig.
Eurycarenus laticeps Loew.
Bombylius laticeps Loew, Bericbt.
der Konigl.
Preuss.
Akad.
d. Wissensch.
Berl., 659, 1852; Peters, Natur.
Reise nach Mossambique, Insect., 14, 1862.
Eurycarenus laticeps Loew.
One specimen, Shiekh Husein, September 26, 1894.
The venation is exactly like that figured by Loew, but the pile is more or less rubbed from the abdomen.
Bombylius sp.
One specimen, December 3, 1894.
Too much injured to determine.
SYRPHID^l.
Melanostoma annulipes Macquart.
Syrphus a?inulipes Macq.
Dipt.
Exot, II, pt.
2, 102, pi.
17, fig.
4,1842; Bigot, Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Fr., VII, 3 ser.
436, pi.
12, fig.
5, 1859.
Eleven specimens, Sheikh Husein, Sept. 29th, Oct. 7th, and Ginneer Nov. 14th.
Syrpbus sp.
Two specimens, Sheikh Husein, September 29th, and October 8, 1894.
Asarkina sp.
One specimen, Sheikh Husein, September 20, 1894.
Khingia caerulescens Loew.
Rhingia ctcrulescens Loew.
Dipt.
Fauna Sud-Afri.
(101) 29, 1860 ; Oefers.
Kongl.
Akad.
Forhand., 377, 14, 1857.
Three specimens, Sheikh Husein, September 29th, and October 1, 1894.
MEGATRIGON n. gen. Head hemispherical, slightly wider than the thorax, front and vertex of nearly uniform width, the three ocelli widely separated, the two upper ones being situated on the vertical orbits near the angles of the eyes, the three being widely equidistant, eyes hairy, occiput prominent, third joint of the antennae ovate as long as the first and second taken together, arista inserted near the base and slightly longer than the third joint.
Thorax as wide as long, anterior margin straight, posterior portion rounded.
Scutellum but slightly arched and of a nearly equal width.
Abdomen convex, oblong, slightly tapering, about twice the length of the thorax.
160 [1898.
Posterior femora greatly thickened, outer portion on the under side, armed with two ridges having teeth-like projections (Fig.
1) in the groove between these ridges, the tibia lies when the fly is at rest, posterior tibiae arcuated and the outer half thickened, first joint of the posterior tarsi dilated and as long as all the other joints.
Wings as shown in Fig.
2.
Type M. sexfasciatus.
Megatrigon sexfasciatus n. sp.
9 .
— Length 9 mm.
Face, front and vertex granulose, (except a narrow longitudinal space on the front,) black, shining, with long whitish pile on the face and front yellowish on the vertex, mouth parts reddish, the two upper ocelli showing a red metallic lustre in certain light; posterior and inferior orbits with a dense yellow pubescence, eyes sparsely covered with white hairs.
Antennae and arista?
black, base of the aristae and second joint of the antennae reddish.
Thorax black, shining, granulose, with yellowish-white pile, humeri reddish, a dense yellow pubescence forms three dorsal stripes, and a continuous margin extending from the anterior end of the outer dorsal stripes, the latter only reach the suture, while the middle stripe almost reaches the posterior margin, pleurae with a dense yellowish pubescence and long whitish pile, posterior angle reddish with bright 1yellow pile, scutellum black with a yellow posterior margin and long yellowish-white pile.
Abdomen convex, black, granulose, with sparse yellowish-white pile and six transverse bands of dense yellowish pubescence arranged as follows: An arcuate band on the second segment extends from the posterior angles to the middle where it is very narrowly interrupted ; third, with a basal and a slightly arcuated middle band; fourth with a basal, middle, and posterior band, the middle one slightly curved, lateral margins of the third and fourth segments yellow, posterior part of the first segments shining and the posterior margin of the fifth yellow.
Venter concave, brown with dense grayish pubescence and sparse white pile, lateral margins blackish.
Femora black, with long whitish hairs, coxae brown, anterior and middle tibiae and tarsi red covered with yellowish hairs, under side of the tibiae near the outer end with a brownish band.
Groove on the under side of the outer portion of the posterior femur into which the basal half of the tibia lies when at rest, shining, ridges with five teeth-like projections, posterior tibiae black, pile yellowish, base of the tibia?
and tarsi red.
Wing hyaline, with a slight tinge of brown, veins dark brown.
Alula?
and halteres bright yellow.
One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 10, 1894.
ACROCERIDjE.
Pterodontia Smithi n. sp.
Length 10 mm.
Head black, with yellow and brownish pile.
Antennse yellow.
Thorax yellow thickly cover with long yellowish pile, a dorsal stripe about the width of the head extends to nearly opposite the base of the wings where it expands into a large discoidal spot occupying the entire dorsal portion, a spot on the antealar protuberance, lower portion of the pleurae and the sternum, black.
Scutellum yellow with brown and yellowish pile and a round central black spot.
Abdomen tricolor, with brown and yellowish pile ; the irregular black dorsal stripe and the dark and light yellow transverse bands that extend on either side and divide the segments into two equal parts may be described as follows : The first segment is covered by the scutellum and visible only on the side, is black with a lateral and posterior margin of light yellow ; second, the black of the dorsal stripe occupies fully one-half of the anterior and nearly one-third of the posterior half of the segment, between the anterior portion of the central stripes and the subtriangular black markings at the anterior angles, is a small dark yellow spot representing the first, dark yellow band, the light yellow posterior band extending on each side of the central marking is narrowly contracted at the lateral margin ; third, anterior half of the central stripe the same width as the posterior half of that on the preceding segment, posterior half contracted to about one-third that of the anterior portion, the black lateral markings at the anterior angles quadrate, the lateral portions of the light yellow band but slightly contracted ; fourth, the anterior portion of the central stripe somewhat narrower at the anterior margin than at the middle or anterior margin of the light yellow band, posterior half one-third the width of the anterior portion and not quite or very narrowly touching the posterior edge of the segment, lateral markings quadrate, light yellow band less contracted than on the third segment; fifth segment similar to the fourth, except that the central stripe does not reach the posterior margin, in one specimen the central and lateral markings are narrowly connected, thus dividing the dark and light yellow bands ; sixth segment black with a yellow spot at the posterior angles, in one specimen the latter character is wanting.
Venter yellowish, first and sixth segments brownish, in one specimen the base of all the other segments is slightly tinged with brown.
Legs yellow with yellow pile, coxre and the under side of the femora more or less tinged with brown, tips of the claws black.
Wings hyaline, veins yellow.
Two specimens, Crorgora, September 13, 1894.
This species is readily distinguished from those already described by its lateral quadrate abdominal markings.
ANTHOMYID-S3.
Phorbia fusiceps Zett.
One specimen, Sheikh Mahomed, November 11, 1894.
Anthomyia abyssinica Jnennick.
Anlhomyia abyssinica Ja?nnick.
Neues Exot.
Dipt., Abhandl.
d. Senckenb.
Ges., VI, 372.
Two specimens, Sheikh Husein, October 3rd ; Sheikh Mahomed, November 10, 1894.
Authomyiasp.
Three specimens, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894.
Anthomyia pp.
One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894.
Caricea marginipennis n. sp.
Length 3 mm.
Front, vertex and occiput bluish-gray, face and a ridge surrounding the base of the antennae yellow, two slightly arcuate black lines extend from the vertical angles near the eyes, to the yellow ridge above the antennas, space between the two lines less bluish, on each of the vertical and frontal orbits are three minute black points; antenna?
yellow.
Thorax bluish-gray with two rows of four minute black points from each of which rises a small bristle, there are also numerous smaller ones on the side of the dorsum and on the pleurse, scutellum bluish-gray with two black bristles.
Abdomen of the same color with two small black dots on the third, fourth and fifth segments.
Legs yellow.
Wings with a brownish tinge, and a wide whitish-hyaline posterior margin commencing near the second longitudinal vein.
Two specimens, Sheikh Mahomed, October 11, and Ginea, November 14,1894.
Anaphalantus politus n. sp.
Length 3£ mm.
Front and vertex black, with whitish bloom, frontal orbits with silvery pubescence each with three shining black spots, the upper one at the junction of the front and vertex ; face light yellow, palpi yellow, proboscis black, occiput black, shining ; antenna?, first and second joint and arista yellow, third joint blackish, and longer than the first and second taken together.
Thorax black with a hoary bloom which is more dense on the pleura?
and also forms a wide dorsal stripe, dorsum with numerous black bristles, humeri shining, scutellum black with two lateral and two very long apical bristles.
Abdomen black, disc and a narrow dorsal line on the last segment hoary, the lateral portion of the segments shining black, venter hoary.
Legs yellow with black hairs, outer half of the anterior tibia?
and the first joint of the tarsi black, with long dense black hairs, tips of the posterior femora brownish.
Wings hyaline, iridescent in certain lights, veins yellow.
One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894.
This species may be distinguished from Anaphalantus pennatus Loew, by the third joint of the antenna?
being black, and the outer half of the tibia?
only, being black.
TRYPETIDJE.
Trypeta angusta Loew.
Trypeta angusta Loew, Berl.
Entom.
Zeit., 1861,271, Taf.
II, fig.
9.
One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 11, 1894.
SEPSIDJE.
Sepsis costalis n. sp.
Length 5 mm.
Face and cheeks brown ; front, vertex and occiput black.
Antenna?
reddish-brown, proboscis black.
Thorax and abdomen black, opaque.
Legs entirely black.
Wings hyaline, except the costal cell which is entirely black.
Two specimens, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894.
Sepsis sp.
Two specimens, Sheikh Husein, October 3rd ; Ginea, November 14, 1894.
DIOPSID^E.
Diopsis somaliensis n. sp.
Length 7 mm.
Head red, shining, with very sparse white hairs, mouth parts and lateral prolongations that form the eye-stalks, brownish, the enlarged portion that forms the base of the eye, dark brown, antenna?
reddish, arista?
brown.
Thorax black with a very short white pubescence, scutellum black, spines yellowFig.
3. ish, tips of the spines brown, halters light yellow.
Abdomen black, shining, hypopygium reddish, venter brownish, legs dark yellow, anterior tibiae and all except the basal joint of the anterior tarsi brownish.
Wings hyaline slightly tinged with brown, veins black, a black ocel late spot above and a > shaped marking below, near the tip of the third longitudinal vein as shown in Fig.
'■'>.
Two specimens, near Lake Abaya, May 9, 1895.
OSCINIDJE.
Elachiptera femorata n. sp.
Length 8 mm.
Head brownish, lower portion of the face and front more or less yellowish, orbits in certain lights are silvery, the ocellar triangle shining, the lower portion greatly attenuate and almost reaching the base of the antenna?, under side of the antennae red, upper side and setae dark brown.
Thorax brown, with three black stripes and covered with a grayish pubescence, which also forms a short prominent line in the center of the anterior portion of the black dorsal stripe, pleurae brownish, scutellum blackish.
Abdomen black, with a narrow yellowish-white posterior margin to all the segments, venter brownish.
Femora and tibiae reddish, tarsi yellow, posterior femora somewhat thickened.
Wings hyaline, veins dark-brown.
Three specimens, Ginea, November 14th, and Sheikh Mahomed, October 11, 1894.
Chlorops sp.
One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894.
HIPPOBOSCLDJE.
Hippobosca camelina (Savg.)
Leach.
Hipposca camelina Savigny mss.
Leach, Eprob.
Ins., Wern.
Mem., II, 556.
Tab.
XXVII, figs.
11-14, JS17; Kondani, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Storia Nat.
Genova, XII, 165, 1878.
One specimen, Berbera, July 5, 1894.
Ornithomyia nigricans Leach.
Ornitliomyia nigricans Leach.
Eprob.
Ins.
Wern.
Mem., II, 10.
Tab.
XXVII, figs._7-10, 1817; Wied.
Auss.
Zvv., 11, 609, 3 ; v. d. Wulp, Dipt.
Sum.
Exp.
57, 1 ; v Roder, Entom.
Xachr., XIX, 236, 29.
Two specimens, Dada, November 21, 1894.
These specimens agree with the description.
THE MUSCIDiE COLLECTED BY DR. A. DONALDSON SMITH IN SOMALI LAND.
BY GARRY DE N. HOUGH, M. D. One cannot offer for publication a paper on Muscidse in which species are described as new without a certain amount of misgiving.
So many descriptions of Muscidse have been published that I fear I may have overlooked some, and that I may have added to the already too long list of synonyms.
I can only say that I have conscientiously tried to avoid this.
My descriptions are long, but the resemblances between the Muscidse are so close, that it is essential to describe new species at length if they are ever to be recognized by subsequent students.
If any of the species described as new are already known, I shall be very glad to be informed of it and to publish the synonymy.
Considerable space has been given to the bristles of the head, and, as I have felt obliged to introduce some new names, my descriptions must be prefaced by a few remarks on these bristles.
Bristles of the Head.
— The central feature of the muscid face is the frontal suture, which, taken as a whole, has the shape of an inverted U, the arms making with one another more or less of an angle.
If we draw a line across the face tangent to the convexity of this suture, then the part of the face dorsad of this line and between the eyes is the front.
The fraut is distinctly divided into three parts, a median (the frontal vitta), and two lateral (the geno vertical plates).
The boundary lines between the vitta and the geno-vertical plates are marked by rows of bristles (usually one row on each side of the vitta), which are inserted in a dorso-ventral line from a point on a level with the anterior ocellus to the ventral border of the front.
These are the frontal bristles.
They are in two groups which I call the ascending frontal and the trans-frontal.
The ascending frontal, from one to four in number, are the most dorsad of the frontal bristles.
If more than one is present, the most dorsad is the largest, and each succeeding one is smaller (usually much smaller) than its dorsal neighbor.
They are curved dorsad, caudad and more or less laterad, and are parallel to one another.
The trans-frontal vary in Dumber in different species, in the two sexes of the same species and even in different individuals of the same sex.
In the female they are directed mesad and cephalad across the frontal vitta and more or less of them may decussate with their fellows of the opposite side.
In the male they are generally more numerous than in the corresponding female, and they are directed cephalad with (usually) a curve dorsad or ventrad.
As in the female they may decussate, but as a rule they do not.
Each geno-vertical plate is continued over the vertex to the occipital surface in the form of a little ridge.
This ridge is bounded laterad by a suture which begins at the dorso-mesal angle of the eye, runs to the vertex, over the vertex to the occipital surface of the head, and then in a ventro-mesal direction as far as the great central foramen.
About half way between the vertex and the great foramen the little ridge bifurcates.
The lateral branch continues in about the same direction as the main ridge, while the mesal branch runs more or less directly mesad and joins its fellow of the opposite side ; thus by these two little ridges and their mesal branches a triangular area is marked out at the dorso-central part of the occiput.
At the very beginning of each of these little ridges just mentioned, right on the vertex, stands a bristle which is called the inner vertical, and down a little way on each ridge just before it bifurcates stands another which I propose to call the oceipito-central.
Both of these bristles are present in every species that I have so far had the opportunity of examining.
They vary in size in different species and in the two sexes of the same species.
The inner vertical project dorsad with more or less of a curve caudad and mesad, so that they sometimes decussate a little and are almost always convergent.
The amount of convergence varies even in individuals of the same species and sex.
The oceipito-central project dorsad and mesad sometimes with a curve, sometimes without a curve, sometimes decussating a little with one another, sometimes apparently decussating with a bristle called the post-vertical, which will be described later.
On the vertex, just laterad the beginning of the little ridge and the inner vertical bristle, stands a bristle which is called the outer vertical.
This bristle varies much in size in different species and in the two sexes of the same species.
It is larger in the female than in the male, and is absent in the males of some species although present in their females.
A little caudad, ventrad and laterad of the outer vertical, on the occipital surface of the head, there is sometimes a small bristle which curves dorsad, mesad and a trifle cephalad, apparently decussating with the outer vertical.
I call this the occipitolateral.
Parallel to and at a variable distance caudad from the occipital margin of the eye, is a row of bristles called the cilia of the posterior orbit.
They begin dorsad very near the outer vertical bristle but distinctly caudad of it and also very near but cephalad of the occipito-lateral.
The members of the dorsal part of this row are commonly larger and more perfectly aligned than the members of the members of the ventral portion, and there is much difference in their size and correctness of alignment in different species as well as in the distance to which they can be traced ventrad as a distinct row.
Frequently there are one or more rows of exceedingly small bristles intercalated between the cilia of the posterior orbit and the occipital margin of the eye.
The posterior orbit is the space between the cilia of the posterior orbit and the occipital margin of the eye ; it is usually narrower in the male than in the female, and may be absent.
I spoke above of a triangular area marked out at the dorso-central part of the occipital surface of the head by the two little ridges and their mesal branches.
This triangle and the more or less distinct eminence on which the ocelli are situated, are continuous with one another over the vertex and form a differentiated portion which is occupied by a group of bristles which may be called the ocellar group.
Among them we must distinguish the greater ocellar (ocellar pair of Baron Osten-Sacken), and the lesser ocellar.
The greater ocellar is a pair of bristles usually easily distinguishable by their larger size, which are inserted between the anterior ■and posterior ocelli.
They vary in size, direction and curvature in different species and in the two sexes of the same species, and in different individuals (especially males) of the same species.
They are generally parallel to the lesser ocellar bristles and sometimes differ from the latter in size by a very small amount.
The lesser ocellar are more numerous, from three to twelve pairs, and are usually inserted in two parallel lines (sometimes in four) which begin very close to the insertion of the greater ocellar and extend caudad a variable distance, sometimes about half way to an imaginary line joining the insertions of the inner vertical bristles, sometimes beyond this line to the occipital surface of the head.
Usually the most caudal pair of lesser ocellar is somewhat larger than the rest, sometimes much larger, and it has received the special name post-vertical pair.
When it is much larger and at the same time is separated by quite a space from the next pair (as in the females of Myospila, Muscina and Graphomyia) the post-vertical really seem to be an independent pair of bristles, but when (as in Musca and Morellid) they are hardly distinguishable in size, are as near the next pair as that pair is to the next in the series, and still more when we find similar bristles even caudad of the postverticals themselves it is clear that they belong to the lesser ocellar series.
In some species we can see, in the middle of the frontal vitta, a more or less distinctly differentiated dorso-ventral stripe.
The ventral end of this stripe is not much above the ventral end of the frontal vitta itself.
Dorsad it broadens out and then divides into two branches, one of which passes on each side of the ocellar eminence to the vertex.
Inserted on the vitta some little distance below the anterior ocellus and close to this stripe (over which they decussate) we find in some species a pair of rather small bristles which I call the preocellar.
Bristles which are inserted on the geno-vertical plate are called orbital.
On each side of the face at the ventral end of the arm of the frontal suture, begins what is called the transverse impression of the face.
This is at first a rather broad shallow depression.
It passes almost horizontally laterad (becoming narrower as it proceeds) ventrad of the eye, and can be readily traced as far as the ventro-caudal angle of the eye where it usually seems to end.
Sometimes, however, it can be seen to be continuous with a suture of the occiput which runs from the latero-ventral angle of the great foramen toward and sometimes to the ventro-caudal angle of the eye.
That part of the side of the face which is dorsad the transverse impression, laterad of the arm of the frontal suture and mesad of the eye is called by the German authors the wange.
For this, I suggest the word gena, for reasons which will appear later.
The gena is continuous dorsad with the geno-vertical plate.
Ventrad of the transverse impression and ventrad of the eye, extending ventrad to the edge of the mouth opening, cephalad to the vibrissal ridge, and continuing caudad on the occiput to the great foramen, is the part which the German authors call the Backe.
For this I suggest the word bucca.
In English we have but one word " cheek " for the two German words Wange aud Backe.
The Wange is dorsad of the Backe, In Latin the word " gena " refers rather to the upper part of the cheek, the word " bucca " to the lower part.
For these reasons and because the words bucca and Backe are so nearly alike, it has seemed to me wise to translate Wange by gena and Backe by bucca.
The bucca is sometimes clearly defined, cephalad, from the vibrissal ridge by a distinct steep edge (I have never been able to see a suture here), at other times it is not so defined and the line of separation is an imaginary one, more or less clearly indicated by differences in the characters of the hairs and bristles of the bucca and the vibrissal ridge.
That portion of the bucca which is on the occipital surface is bounded by distinct sutures.
The whole bucca is hairy or bristly, the hairs and bristles varying in number and size in different species.
Mesad of the arms of the frontal suture, constituting the lateral boundaries of the facial fossa, are two distinct ridges, one on each side of the face.
These are the vibrissal ridges, so-called because on them the stout bristles called vibrissae are inserted.
They were called the faeialia by Desvoidy, by Walker and by Baron OstenSacken, but the term used by Professor Brauer, " Vibrissenleisten," meaning vibrissal ridges, is so much more appropriate, that I prefer to sacrifice priority to good sense.
If we follow the vibrissal ridge dorsad we find that it diminishes in width and gradually disappear^ from view under the gena.
If we follow it ventrad we find that it gradually increases in width, being largest at a point called the vibrissal angle, where the largest of the vibrissa?
is inserted.
The position of the vibrissal angle with relation to the edge of the mouthopening is not the same in all genera, being sometimes very close to it and sometimes rather remote.
In all the genera to be considered in this paper, however, except Pollenia and Paracompsomyia, the two are very close together.
Dorsad of the vibrissal angle we usually find one or more vibrissa?
which are much smaller than the one inserted at the angle.
Dorsad of the smaller vibrissa?
the ridge is usually more or less thickly beset with minute bristles as far as or beyond the ventral end of the arm of the frontal suture.
Ventrad of the angle there are usually a few vibrissa?.
The bristles of the legs require also a few words of introduction.
These bristles have not as yet received the study that they deserve in the Muscidse.
I believe there is a typical arrangement of these 12 170 [1898.
^"^vv-^^.u a. i. bristles subject, of course, to great variation but easily recognizable.
When the limbs of a Muscid are in their natural position it will at once be seen that so far as the fore and hind legs are concerned, one surface is turned toward the median line of the body and one away from it ; these are the mesal and lateral surfaces respectively.
The lateral surfaces are provided with stouter and more numerous bristles as would be expected if, as is supposed, the function of the bristles is a protective one.
The terms flexor and extensor need no explanation.
The anterior femur in cross section has the shape I, 1, and its bristles (at least the prominent ones) are in three rows, each of which extends from base to apex.
Two of these rows are near the extensor border, the one nearest that border being made up of larger bristles than the other ; the third row is very near the flexor border ; all three are on the lateral surface.
The hind femur is shaped very like the fore femur, and has on its lateral surface an extensor row and a flexor row of bristles, corresponding to the row nearest the extensor border and the flexor row of the lateral surface of the fore femur; the mesal surface has also a flexor row, but its members are smaller and less numerous than those of the flexor row of the lateral surface.
The middle femur is much less flattened than the others, and in its natural position its surfaces are anterior and posterior flexor and extensor ; it has an anterior flexor and posterior flexor row of bristles and also an anterior median and a posterior median row.
As a rule the median rows are incomplete, l. e., do not extend all the way from base to apex.
The anterior commonly ends half way from base to apex, the most apical members of the row being the largest, the posterior often begins about half way from base to apex, and extends thence to the apex, its apical members being also the largest, and usually the apical three or four form a transverse group of considerable prominence.
The tibia?
are, in cross section, almost triangular with a very well marked extensor border and with flexor, mesal and lateral (middle tibia with flexor, anterior and posterior) surfaces.
The same difference in size and number of bristles that was noted in the case of the mesal and lateral surfaces of the fore and hiud femora is noticeable in the corresponding tibiae, but is not 30 pronounced.
Each of these surfaces has, ordinarily, a flexor and extensor row of bristles.
The middle tibia has also flexor and extensor rows of bristles on its anterior and posterior surfaces, and it has, in some genera, a prominent bristle on the flexor surface which does not occur (as far as my observation extends) on either of the other tibise, Very often the surfaces of the tibire have other rows besides the flexor and ex* tensor, such are usually made up of minute bristles, except for the terminal subapical member, but sometimes one or more of the members are largely developed and in consequence an oblique row of large bristles may appear on the tibia as in I, 2.
The apical bristles of the tibiae are remarkably constant in number, arrangement and relative size.
Although the number of specimens collected by Dr. Smith in the group Muscidre (sens, strict.)
is quite small, only thirty-eight, nevertheless the collection is very interesting, including eleven genera, of which three are new, and thirteen species of which seven are new.
Genus GLOSSINA.
Glossina longipennis Corti.
Two females taken August 19, 1894, and August 24, 1894.
They agree perfectly with Corti's description, except that there are no brown spots on the abdomen.
Genus IDIA.
Idia lunata Wied.
Three females taken September 29, 1894, October 2, 1894, and November 10, 1894.
Genus COSMINA.
Cosmina sp.
?
Female, taken November 10, 1894.
Too imperfect to identify or describe.
Genus MUSCA.
Musca domestica L. Female specimen, taken October 11, 1894.
This is a variety with color and markings of abdomen somewhat like the male.
The ground color is a dull reddish-brown, on each of the first three segments there is a narrow, median, cephalo-caudal black stripe ; the whole of the ventral surface of all segments and the cephalic half of the dorsal surface of the first segment are rather more yellow than the remainder of the dorsal surface.
In color of abdomen the specimen reminds me of a female specimen sent me by Dr. Wm.
A. Nason, in which the abdomen had the color and markings of the male.
Structurally the specimen is identical with domestica although it has, to be sure, five dorso-central bristles behind the suture, but tliia number occurs occasionally in otherwise normal specimens both of domestica and corvina.
Musca corvina Fabr.
One male taken September 10, 1894.
Musca biseta nov. sp.
One male and four females, all taken March 10, 1894.
Very much like domestica, from which it differs as follows: Male.
— Front about one-half as wide as in specimens of domestica with the same width of head.
Dorsum of first abdominal segment entirely black.
Female.
— Front of same width as that of specimens of domestica with same width of head, but the frontal vitta is decidedly narrower and its lateral borders less curved.
Both Sexes.
— Smaller than the average sized domestica.
Genovertical plates, genre, bucc?e and vibrissal ridges silvery white, with scarcely a trace of the yellowish tinge which so often predominates in domestica.
Only two dorso-central bristles in front of the suture.
Bristles of the extenso lateral row of the hind tibia equal or almost equal.
No prominent bristle in the extenso-mesal row of the hind tibia.
Genus MORELLIA.
Morellia podagrica Loew.
Two males and one female taken March 10, 1894, and April 10, 1894.
Agree perfectly with, but are smaller than, my European specimens of this species.
Genus PSEUDOPYRELLIA.
Pseudopyrellia sp.
?
One male and one female taken March 10, 1894.
This is a new species.
The specimens are too imperfect to describe fully.
The antennal arista has longer, more numerous and more delicate hairs than comicina (American and European specimens), and the female has on the thorax, in front of the suture, a broad, median, cephalo-caudal hoary stripe which fades out before the suture is reached.
The distinctness and brilliancy of this stripe vary with the iucidence of light.
Of 100 American female specimens of comicina examined not one has this stripe.
The front of the male is much narrower than in comicina.
Pseudopyrellia nuda nov. sp.
Four females taken March 10, 1894, and September 29, 1894.
Length about 8 mm., of a brilliant metallic violet color, varying to bronzy-green.
Remarkably few and delicate macrochsetse.
Width of head about 2.4 mm., of front about 0.7 mm.
Vitta occupies about one-third of the front.
The genre and the ventral quarter or fifth of the geno-vertical plates are silvery-white or dead black, according to the incidence of the light, the remainder of the genovertical plates, the ocellar prominence and the dorsal half of the posterior orbit are metallic violet or green ; the ventral half of the posterior orbit is silvery white, dead black or with metallic reflections according to the incidence of the light ; the buccse are dead black or metallic violet according to the incidence of the light ; the vibrissal ridges are black with slight metallic reflections ; the frontal vitta is dead black.
The bristles of the vertex are as in cornicina; the hairs of the geno-vertical plates (there are no orbital bristles) are as in cornicina, but much less numerous; the bristles of the vibrissal ridges are yellowish-brown and arranged as in cornicina; the buccse are sparsely beset with delicate yellowish-brown hairs.
Palpi black or dark brown, dilated at the apices; proboscis black or dark brown, with some metallic reflections.
Antenna, 2d joint 0.2 mm., 3d joint 0.6 mm.
; color brown, 3d joint lighter than 2d.
The whole thorax and abdomen has a finely punctate appearance and is remarkably free from macrocksetse, although quite as thickly clothed with fine hairs as is usual in the Muscidae.
Bristles of thorax.
— I, 3a, 3b, 3c.
Humeral, 1.
Dor so-central, 4, 2 in front and 2 behind the suture, the posterior is of good size, the rest are minute.
Intra-alar, 1, very small.
Supra-alar, 1, very small.
Post alar, 2, as usual, of good size.
Notopleural, 2, as usual, of good size.
Scutellar, apical and two marginal, of good size.
Tegulse hyaline ; Halteres pale yellow.
Legs.
— Femora black or very dark brown, with some metallic reflections.
Tibise and tarsi black or very dark brown ; bristles of legs much smaller and less numerous than usual in the Museidse.
Fore Leg.
— Femur.
— Only oneextenso-lateral row of bristles, and this is made up of fewer and smaller bristles than usual.
Bristles of flexo-lateral row smaller and much fewer than usual.
Tibia.
— No prominent bristles except the preapical of extensor border.
Middle Leg.
— Femur.
— The usual rows are present, but the individual bristles are small, and there are but few of them.
The only respectable sized bristle of the femur is the preapical of the posterior surface.
Tibia.
— Anterior surface no bristles at all.
Posterior surface.
— One prominent bristle at the middle of the tibia and a varying number of other much smaller bristles.
Flexor surface.
— One large bristle, about twice as large as the largest of the posterior surface, at the junction of the third and apical fourths, inserted close to the edge of the posterior surface.
Hind Leg.
— Femur.
— The usual rows present but of fewer and smaller bristles than usual.
Tibia.
— No prominent bristles save one very delicate flexo-lateral.
Genus POLLENIA.
I might consider the species to be here described as the type of a new genus in deference to the views of Professor Brauer as I understand them.
He gives as one of the characters of Pollenia: " two orbital bristles in the female."
These specimens have from four to six orbital bristles of large size inserted in a dorso-ventral line roughly parallel to the insertions of the trans-frontal bristles and laterad these large orbitalsand parallel to them another row of very small bristles.
I am sure that the number of large orbital bristles may vary in individuals of the same species and, therefore, am personally of the opinion that their number is not always a character of generic value, e. g., in our common species of Morellia the number of large orbital bristles varies from two to seven, frequently differing on the two sides of the same specimen.
Such being the case, it seems to me that I must include this species in Pollenia since it presents all the characters of that genus except the one mentioned.
The woolly hair is present only on the caudal border of the mesopleura, caudad the row of bristles which protect the root of the wing, a condition often met with in our common P. rudis if the specimen is not fresh.
The specimens look as if they had been wet.
Pollenia virido-cana nov. sp.
Three females taken September 5, 1895.
Length about 7.5 mm.
; width of head about 2.2 mm., of front about 0.75, of frontal vitta about 0.25 mm.
Looking at the head directly from in front, the height of the eye is 1.3 mm., of the bucca 0.4 mm.
The highest point of the vertex is a little higher (about 0.1 mm) than the highest point of the eye.
The third antennal joint is twice as long as the second.
The general color of the fly is a dirty greenish-white or gray.
On close examination it is seen that the ground color of the thorax and abdomen is a metallic green, but that this is more or less concealed by a thick, whitish, hoary coating.
In some lights there seem to be two dorso-ceutral bands on the thorax which are free from this coating.
The anterior femora are of the same colors as the thorax, the middle and posterior femora are dark brown, with here and there suggestions of the green color and hoary coating.
The tibiae and tarsi are a very dark brown.
Tegulse milky white.
Halteres brownish.
The gense, geno-vertical plates, ocellar triangle, posterior orbits, buecse and vibrissal ridges are dirty white with the usual silky lustre, varying according to the incidence of the light to a pale brown.
Frontal vitta pale brown.
Antennse: second joint pale brown, third joint darker brown with hoary coating.
Bristles of Head.
— Inner vertical, outer vertical, greater ocellar, and cilise of posterior orbit as in P. rudis.
Lesser ocellar less numerous than in rudis, only three or two pairs.
Ascending frontal, one, large.
Transfrontal six to eight, mostly decussate over the narrow vitta.
Orbital : a row of four to six large bristles, the insertions of which are roughly parallel to the insertions of the transfrontals ; a second row laterad the large ones and parallel to them composed of very small bristles.
Gense bare.
Buccse with a series of stout bristles along the edge of the mouth opening and with the remainder of their surface sparsely beset with very fine hairs.
Vibrissal ridges with a very few hairs dorsad the principal vibrissa extending; little or not at all dorsad the ventral end of the arm of the frontal suture.
Bristles of Thorax, I, 5a, 5b, 5c.
Humeral, 3.
Post-humeral, 2.
Dorso central, 6, two in front of and four behind the suture.
Acrostichals very small, one anterior and two posterior to the suture.
Intra-alar, 4, one in front of and three behind the suture ; the most posterior is very small and a little mesad the line of the others.
Supra-alar, 3, of which, as usual, the middle one is much the largest.
Post-alar, 2, as usual.
Notopleural, 2, as usual.
Scutellar.
— A small bristle of the jugum, an apical, two marginal and a rather small discal.
Bristles of Abdomen.
— As usual in Muscidre (sens, strict.).
The macrochaetse of the head and thorax and nearly all the minute bristles and hairs of the thorax and abdomen appear to be inserted at the centres of little black disc-shaped spots.
Bristles of the Legs.
— Too imperfect to be described.
The only especially noteworthy feature that can be made out is a long, stout bristle at the middle of the anterior surface of the middle femur.
This represents, apparently, the anterior median row of bristles of the middle femur that is so universally present in the Muscidse (sens.
strict.)
aud is so well developed in P. rudis.
Genus LUCILIA.
Lucilia spinicosta nov. sp.
One male and one female, taken March 10, 1894.
Length : about 5.5 mm.
(male) and 6.0 mm.
(female).
Width of head: male 2.0 mm.
female 2.2 mm.
Width of front: male 0.1 mm.
at narrowest part, females 0.8 mm., vitta of female 0.5 mm.
Third antennal joint twice as long as the second.
Color.
— The usual metallic green of Lucilia?
with some hoary reflections.
Legs yellowish-brown, femora much darker than tibiae and tarsi.
Tegulae : inferior dark smoky brown almost black, superior hyaline.
Halteres yellowish.
Genre, geno-vertical plate, posterior orbit, buccse and vibrissal ridges silvery-white.
Antennae: second joint and base of third yellowish-brown, remainder of third chestnut-brown.
Palpi yellowish-brown.
Wings hyaline, slightly stained with yellowish-brown toward the costal border.
On the costal border of the wing, basad of but very close to the end of the auxiliary vein, is a good sized spine.
On both the upper and under surfaces of the wing the third longitudinal vein bears a number of minute spines, those beneath are four or five in number and much more delicate than those above, those above are ten or twelve in number and extend nearly to the small cross vein.
Bristles of the Head.
— As usual in Luciliae.
Bristles of the Thorax.
— I, 7a, 7b, 7c.
Humeral, 3.
Post humeral, 2.
Dorso-central, 5, 2 in front and 3 behind the suture.
Intra alar, 4, one in front and 3 behind the suture.
Acrostichal, 5, 2 in front and 3 behind the suture.
Presutural, notopleural, supra alar and post alar as usual.
Scutellar, apical, 3 marginal and one discal.
Sternopleura and mesopleura as usual in Luciliae.
Bristles of Abdomen.
— On hind border of second segment a number of small appressed bristles.
On hind border of third segment about twelve to fourteen larger and less appressed bristles.
On the fourth segment about twelve not at all appressed quite good sized bristles both marginal and discal.
In the male these bristles are larger than in the female.
Bristles of the Legs.
— Fore Leg.
— Femur : as usual but dorsal lateral extensor row has only about six members.
Tibia : in the lateral extensor row there is in the male, but not in the female, a little basad the junction of middle and apical thirds one rather prominent bristle ; in the lateral flexor row there is one large bristle at the junction of the apical and middle thirds ; in the mesal extensor row there are no prominent bristles ; in the mesal flexor row there are about four prominent bristles and these are larger in female than in the male.
Middle Leg.
— Femur : as usual.
Tibia : the anterior surface, a little apicad the middle, has one large bristle ; the posterior surface has two rather smaller, one at the middle and one near the apical end of the basal third ; flexor surface has one at about the junction of the middle and apical thirds.
Hind Leg.
— Femur: as usual.
Tibia: the lateral extensor row has from three to five prominent bristles and the mesal extensor row two, of which one is very near the middle and the other in the basal quarter; no prominent bristles in either flexor row.
Genus PAROCHROMYIA.
The species to be here described would find its place in the table of Brauer and Bergenstamm 1 between Ochromyia and Zovochroa.
The eyes of the male are very close together but not in contact and the male has no transfrontal bristles above the middle point between the base of the antennas and the vertex.
Both sexes have ocellar bristles.
Both sexes have abdominal marochsetas at the sides of each segment, on the hind margin of the third segment (appressed and delicate), and on the fourth ; the male also has some on the hind margin of the second but they are more delicate than those of the third.
The female has one fair sized orbital bristle at the upper part of the geno-vertical plate and, extending ventrad from this, a series of very delicate, minute bristles or hairs which extend along the whole of the geno-vertical plate and on the gena about half way to the end of the arm of the frontal suture.
In Girschner's system I should place this species among the Calliphorinse with the description of which it agrees 2 except that it has three posterior intra-alar bristles.
The sterno-pleural bristles have the arrangement 1-1.
I can not make out the arrangement of the second ventral segment.
Parochromyia varia nov. sp.
Three males and three females, taken March 10, 1894, Nov. 17, 1894, Sept. 3, 1895.
A pale yellowishbrown fly about 6.5 to 7.5 mm.
long.
The wings are notably broad and extend a little beyond the apex of the abdomen.
'Vorarbeiten zu einer Monogr., etc, Pars III, p. 90, (178).
2 Separat-Abdruck aus der Illustrirten Wochenschrift fur Entomologie, Vol.
I, 189H, p. 14.
Head.
— The antennse, bucca?, genae, vibrissa!
ridges, facial fossa and ventral third to half of the geno-vertical plate are all pale yellowish -brown.
The remainder of the geno-vertical plate is bluish gray.
The frontal vitta is brown with a slight reddish tinge.
The posterior orbit differs in the two sexes.
In the female it is about 0.1 mm.
wide, bluish-gray dorsally and shading off ventrally to pale yellow ; in the male it is narrower, entirely absent along the dorsal third or half of the eye and entirely yellow.
In the female the front occupies about one-third of the width of the head and is mostly made up of the frontal vitta the geno-vertical plate being very narrow.
Bristles of the head.
— Female : — Seven to nine transfrontal of good size and a few small intercalarv, sometimes the larger ones decussate and sometimes not, they extend a little ventrad the insertion of the antennas.
Ascending frontal, one.
Orbital as mentioned in the generic description.
Greater ocellar, of good size, divergent.
Lesser ocellar, several pairs all parallel to the greater; one very small pair is situated ventrad the greater, there are several small pairs dorsad the greater and one pair at the dorsal border of the ocellar triangle is half to three quarters the size of the greater.
Inner vertical and outer vertical, inserted as usual, equal ; only a little larger than the ascending frontal, larger than the greater ocellar.
Post vertical small, erect, parallel to one another, inserted on the occipito-vertical border a trifle caudad the line of the inner verticals.
Occipitocentral, very small and delicate, inserted very close to the occipitovertical edge.
Occipito-lateral not present.
Cilia?
of posterior orbit rather sparse but well aligned, extending ventrad to the caudoventral angle of the eye.
Bucca: vertical diameter as seen from in front nearly one half that of eye ; along edge of mouth-opening a series of large stout bristles, the remainder sparsely beset with minute hairs.
Vibrissal ridges: a few minute bristles dorsad the principal vibrissa extending to a point a very little dorsad the ventral end of the arm of the frontal suture.
Male: — Transfrontal, as mentioned in the generic description, about seven in number.
Inner vertical good sized.
Outer vertical absent as is usual in male Muscida?.
Greater ocellar much smaller than in the female (the usual thing in Muscida?).
Lesser ocellar, quite numerous, some of them almost equal to the greater.
Post vertical as in the female.
Occipito-central (doubled in one specimen), cilia?
of posterior orbit, bucca and vibrissal ridges as in female.
Antenna.
— Third joint about twice as long as the second.
Arista longer than second and third joints together, its hairs rather few (about eight above and six below).
The exact shade of color varies in different specimens, being sometimes darker and sometimes lighter; in one female the third joint is almost a chestnut-brown.
Proboscis and palpi yellowish-brown. '
Thorax.
— Color, varying shades of yellowish-brown, darker on the dorsum.
On the dorsum, bands of dark brown or bluish-gray, varying much in width in different specimens (in one male none at all).
A dark spot on the middle of the scutellum in all the females and iu one male.
Bristles of the Thorax, \, 9a, 9b, 9c.
Humeral, 3.
Posthumeral, 3, outermost on a level ventrad the presutural.
Dorso-central, 6, two in front and four behind the suture.
Intra-alar, 4, one in front and three behind the suture.
Acrostichal, 6, three in front and three behind the suture.
Presutural, notopleural, supra-alar and post-alar as usual.
Post-sutural, I venture to apply this name to a bristle, present in all the specimens of this species, which I have not been able to find in any other Muscids that I have seen.
It is situated caudad the transverse suture of the thorax, a little mesad and caudad the anterior supra-alar, and laterad the intra-alar No.
3 (I number the intra alars, dorso-centrals and acrostichals from the caudal end of the thorax cephalad, thus the intra-alar nearest the scutellum is No.
1).
Scutellar.
— Apical, three marginal, jugal, two discal of which the anterior is considerably the larger.
Abdomen.
— Color : Principally yellowish-brown; of varying shade in different specimens.
There are also some very dark brown, almost black, markings as follows : on the first segment a very narrow band on the hind margin ; on second segment a broader band and a median mark, (1, 11) the width of the band and the size of the mark varying considerably ; third segment like second, but the band broader and the mark larger, so that in some specimens almost the whole segment is dark brown or black : fourth segment entirely black or dark brown.
Bristles.
— There are bristles on the hind borders of the first three segments.
Toward and at the sides of the segments the bristles are larger than toward the middle.
All are more or less appressed.
Those toward the middle can hardly be called macrochaetae until we reach the third segment.
On the fourth there are some discal as well as marginal macrochaetae, and they are none of them appressed.
Legs.
— Color: Yellowish-brown.
Bristles: Fore-leg, femur, as usual.
Tibia, lateral flexor row has one large bristle at the junction of the middle and apical thirds, mesal extensor row has from four to six rather small bristles about equal and equi-distant, extending from very near the base to very near the apex.
Middle leg : Femur, as usual, but the anterior median row is represented by only one bristle of good size which is situated just at the middle of the femur.
On the whole, the bristles of this femur are rather few.
Tibia : Anterior surface, one large bristle at junction of apical and middle thirds ; posterior surface two, rather smaller at junction of basal and middle, and middle and apical thirds respectively; flexor surface one, rather small at junction of apical and middle thirds.
Hind'leg : Femur, as usual.
Tibia, mesal extensor row has usually two prominent but not very large bristles situated respectively at the junction of the basal and middle, and middle and apical thirds (sometimes the former is absent) ; lateral extensor row has a considerable but varying number of unequal but almost equidistant bristles extending from base to apex ; lateral flexor row is represented by only one bristle situated at the junction of the apical and middle thirds.
Genus SOMALIA.
There is but a single specimen, and that a female of the species on which I found this new genus, but the characters are so pronounced that I have no hesitation in so doing.
In the table of Brauer & Bergenstamm 3 this genus would fall in the group with Dasyphora, except that it has but one large orbital bristle.
It differs, however, from Dasyphora in several points: (1) the sternopleural bristles have the arrangement 2-1, instead of 1-3 ; (2) there is a row of bristles on the hypo-pleura ; (3) the third joint of the antenna is much shorter as compared with the second ; (4) the outline of the arista as a whole is much narrower, and its hairs are less closely set; (5) the eyes are only minutely hairy with a magnification of twenty diameters; (6) the post-vertical bristles are very small, while in Dasyj)hora they are large.
In Girschner's classification the new genus stands far away from Dasyphora in the 6th or 7th group of his Tacbinidse.
Somalia enigmatica nov. sp.
One female, taken October 11, 1894. '
Vorarb.
zu Monog.
Muse.
Schiz., Part III, p. 90 et seq.
Length about 8.0 mm.
Width of head 2.5 mm., of front 0.9 mm.
(vitta 0.5 mm., genovertical plates each 0.2 mm.).
Looked at squarely from in front the dorso-ventral diameter of the head is 2.3 mm., the vertex extends 0.1 mm.
dorsad the eyes, the dorso-ventral diameter of the eye is 1.5 mm., of the bucca 0.7 mm.
Third antennal joint about li times as long as the second.
General color pale olive-green with a hoary coating, legs a yellowish-brown, except that the third, fourth and fifth tarsal joints and the apical part of the second are black.
On the thorax, in front of the suture, are two narrow bands, one on each side, between the acrostichal and dorsocentral bristles, which have no hoary coating ; these bands broaden cephalad and unite at the cephalic border of the thorax.
On the second, third and fourth abdominal segments there is a narrow, median, cephalo-caudal dark brown stripe not represented in the diagram, I, 13, which shows also the arrangement of the abdominal bristles.
Head.
— Color : Genae, geno-vertical plate, facial fossa, vibrissal ridges, posterior orbits and ocellar prominence silvery ; vitta dark brown; bucca olive; transverse impression of the face yellowishbrown with silvery coating.
Second joint of antennse yellowishbrown, third joint darker with a hoary coating.
Palpi yellowishbrown.
Proboscis black.
Bristles: Trans-frontal, about eight, of which the ventral four or five are of good size and inserted close together, the rest small and scattered.
Ascending frontal, one, large.
Orbitals, one large at about the junction of the dorsal and middle thirds of the front and one exceedingly minute a little dorsad the large one, no others at all.
The bristles at the vertex are somewhat injured, and I can only say that the inner vertical, outer vertical, greater and lesser ocellar, post-vertical (very small), and ciliae of the posterior orbit are present ; nothing unusual can be made out in regard to them in this specimen.
Gense naked.
Bucca?
distinctly separated from the vibrissal ridges ; parallel to the edge of the mouth-opening and a little distance from it is a row of coarse bristles ; near the cephalic end of the bucca about as far dorsad the large bristles of the mouthedge as they are from the mouth edge itself, are two stout bristles about equal in size to those of the mouth edge ; the rest of the bucca is rather sparsely beset with minute bristles and hairs.
Vibrissal ridges : The principal vibrissa and the vibrissal angle are close to the edge of the mouth opening; dorsad the principal vibrissa there are only a few minute bristles not extending as far as the ventral end of the arm of the frontal suture; ventrad the principal vibrissa are four lesser vibrissa inserted along the edge of the mouth opening as far as the cephalic end of the bucca.
Thorax.
— Color, as mentioned above.
Halteres yellow.
Tegulse hyaline, milky white toward the edges.
Bristles, I, 15a, 15b, 15c.
Humeral, 2.
Post humeral, 1, on a level dorsad the presutural.
Dorso-central, 5, two in front and three behind the suture.
Intra-alar, 3, none in front of the suture.
Acrostichal, 2, one in front and one behind the suture, both small.
Presutural, notopleural, supraalar and postalar as usual.
Scutellar : apical, two submarginal and one small discal or subapical.
Mesopleural.
At the dorso-cephalic angle is a group of little hairs, among which two are more prominent than the rest, and perhaps deserve to be called bristles, an arrangement recalling the prominent bristle in this situation which is so constant in the genera Morellia, Muscinia, Musca, Myospila and their allies.
As usual, there is a large bristle just ventrad the prostigma, a little ventrad and caudad this bristle is another, much smaller but decidedly prominent, which I have not found in any other Muscid.
Stemopleural.
Two in front and one behind.
Pteropleural and hypopleural present.
Wing.
Venation shown in the figure.
On the third longitudinal vein are about ten little spines quite regularly distributed from the base to near the small cross vein.
There is a costal spine just basad the end of the auxiliary vein.
Ventral surface of abdomen.
No ventral membrane ; second ventral segment overlaps the edges of the corresponding dorsal, all the other ventral segments are overlapped by the corresponding dorsal.
ii.
Bristles of the Legs.
— Anterior femur as usual.
Anterior tibia : ateral flexor row has one large bristle at the junction of the middle and apical thirds; mesal extensor row has three prominent bristles as arranged in II, 1.
Middle femur has one large bristle at the middle of the anterior surface, a few bristles in the flexor row of each surface, and on the posterior surface a subapical transverse group of three.
Middle tibia has one on the anterior, II, 2, three on the posterior, II, 3, and one on the flexor, II, 4, surface.
Posterior femur as usual.
Posterior tibia has four on the lateral surface (two flexor and two extensor, II, 5), and two on the mesal surface 11,6.
Genus PARACOMPSOMYIA.
Very close to Compsomyia.
In the table of genera of Brauer and Bergenstamm it would fall with Compsomyia from which it differs as follows : wings not hyaline but, toward base and costa, black or very dark brown ; thorax without longitudinal black stripes ; the vibrissal angles are not as far dorsad the mouth edge as in Compsomyia-, there are no vibrissa?
ventrad the principal vibrissa; the orbital bristles are much smaller than in Comjisomyia and are directed laterad instead of ventrad ; the sterno pleural bristles are 1-1 instead of 2-1.
Paracompsomyia nigripennis nov. sp.
Four females, taken August 23, 1894.
Large metallic blue, violet or green flies with yellow heads, black legs and with the costal border and basal half of the wings black or very dark brown.
Length of body 11 to 12 mm., of wing 10 mm.
Width of head 5 mm.
; of front 1.7 mm.
at base of antennse, 1.8 mm.
at vertex ; frontal vitta 1 mm.
at widest point, 0.7 mm.
at base of antennse.
Looked at squarely from in front the dorsoventral diameter of the head (height) is 4.2 mm., the vertex extends 0.2 mm.
dorsad the dorsal border of the eyes, the dorso-ventral diameter of the eye is 2.5 mm., of the bucca 1.5 mm.
The second antennal joint is 0.3 mm.
long, the third is 1.1 mm.
Head.
— Color : — dorsal two-thirds of genovertical plate is polished ferruginous, the ventral third as also the gena?, buccoe, vibrissal ridges and facial fossa are a paler, yellowish-brown with a thin hoary coating.
Vitta ferruginous.
Antenna?
yellowish-brown.
Ocellar prominence and an adjoining triangular area of varying size at the dorsal part of the occiput ferruginous to yellowish-brown varying in different specimens.
Posterior orbit silvery.
Palpi yellow.
Proboscis dark brown to black.
1898.]
185 Bristles.
— Inner vertical and outer vertical of good size, inserted as usual.
Post vertical very small, inserted a little caudad the line of the inner verticals.
Occipito-central replaced by a number of minute bristles.
Cilia?
of posterior orbit as usual, well aligned, rather small.
Greater ocellar very small, divergent, pointing almost directly laterad.
Lesser ocellar exceedingly minute, numerous, in four to six rows, occupying nearly the whole of the ocellar prominence and extending caudad to or nearly to the line of the inner verticals.
Ascending frontal, one, parallel to the outer vertical, inserted on a level with the greater ocellar some distance laterad the line of insertion of the transfrontals halfway between that line and the lateral border of the geno-vertical plate.
Transfrontals ten to twelve, small, non deccusate.
Orbitals two, very small (0.2 to 0.3 mm.
long), curved laterad instead of ventrad as usual, inserted v^ * ' r ^ 1 • _< 1 l 1 » \\ .
1 < 4 » < ...J • /v <OJ 2/4 Humeral, 3.
Dorso-central, 5, 2 in front of and 3 behind the suture.
Intra-alar, 1.
Supra-alar, 2.
Acrostichal, 1, posterior.
Presutural, notopleural and postalar as usual.
Scutellar : Apical, four marginal and two discal as figured.
about at the middle (dorso-ventrally) of the geno-vertical plate and 0.3 or 0.4 mm.
(dorso-ventrally) from each other ; besides these two orbitals the geno-vertical plate is quite thickly clothed with very minute hairs or bristles which toward the vertex are black and toward the gena?
are whitish or colorless.
Gense, clothed like the geno-vertical plates with exceedingly delicate and minute whitish hairs.
Buccal clothed like the gen a?, but toward the occiput the hairs are much longer than elsewhere (as much as 0.2 mm.).
Vibrissal ridges almost straight, only very slightly convex laterad; 13 vibrissal angle and principal vibrissa a little above the mouth edge but not as high as in Compsomyia macellaria or in Pollenia; the principal vibrissa is very small for the size of the fly ; there are no other vibrissa?
but the ridges are clothed nearly their whole length with exceedingly minute whitish hairs.
The arista is about as long as the third antennal joint and is densely plumose with fine hairs.
Its rhachis is yellow toward the base while its apical part and the hairs appear black.
Thorax.
— Color.
— Metallic blue, violet or green with hoary coating.
The hoary coating is much thicker in front of than behind the suture.
The prostigma is very large and is white.
Halteres yellowish.
Tegulse wbite with smoky brown or black border of very varying width.
Bristles.
— There is a row of bristles on the hypopleura and some bristles on the pteropleura.
Abdomen.
— Color.
— Metallic blue, violet or green with a hoary coating which is thickest toward the sides and on the ventral surface.
The first segment and the caudal borders of the second and third are not hoary.
The fourth segment is quite thickly covered with whitish hairs.
There are no abdominal macrocbretse.
The second ventral plate overlaps the corresponding dorsal plates a very little, the other ventral plates are overlapped by the corresponding dorsal plates.
Br-istles of the Legs.
— Femora as usual in the Muscidse.
Tibia?
: anterior tibia has on the mesal surface in the extensor row three prominent bristles III, 4, and on the lateral surface in the flexor row one III, 5 ; middle tibia has on the anterior surface one III, 6 on the posterior surface three III, 7, and on the flexor surface one III, 8 ; hind tibia has on the lateral surface in the flexor row two III, 9, and on the mesal surface, in the extensor row, one III, 10.
Explanation of Figures.
I.
1.
Cross section of anterior femur of a Muscid.
2.
Formation of an oblique row of bristles on the tibia.
3a.
Bristles of thorax of Pseudopyrellia nuda nov. sp.
3b.
Bristles of sternopleura of Pseudopyrellia nuda nov. sp.
3c.
Bristles of mesopleura of Pseudopyrellia nuda nov. sp.
4.
Wing of Pseudopyrellia nuda nov. sp.
5a.
Bristles of thorax of Pollenia virido-cana nov. sp.
5b.
Sternopleura of Pollenia virido-cana nov. sp.
5c.
Mesopleura of Pollenia virido-cana nov. sp.
6.
Wing of Pollenia virido-cana nov. sp.
7a.
Bristles of thorax of Lucilia spinicosta nov. sp.
7b.
Sternopleura of Lucilia spinicosta nov. sp.
7c.
Mesopleura of Lucilia spinicosta nov. sp.
8.
Wing of Lucilia spinicosta nov. sp.
9a.
Bristles of thorax of Parochromyia varia nov. sp.
9b.
Sternopleura of Parochromyia varia nov. sp.
9c.
Mesopleura of Parochromyia varia nov. sp.
10.
Wing of Parochromyia varia nov. sp.
1 1 .
Marking of abdominal segment of Parochromyia varia.
12.
Arista of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp.
13.
Abdomen of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp.
14.
Wing of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp.
15a.
Bristles of thorax of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp.
15b.
Mesopleura of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp.
15c.
Sternopleura of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp.
Diagrams of positions of bristles of tibise of Somalia enigmatica.
1.
Anterior tibia ; mesal surface, extensor row.
2.
Middle tibia ; anterior surface.
3.
Middle tibia ; posterior surface.
4.
Middle tibia ; flexor surface.
5.
Posterior tibia ; lateral surface.
6.
Posterior tibia ; mesal surface.
III.
1.
Antenna of Paracompsomyia nigripennis nov. sp.
2a, 2b, 2c.
Thorax, mesopleura and sternopleura of same 3.
Wing of same.
4 to 10 positions of bristles of tibise of same.
A NEW WEASEL FKOM NEW MEXICO.
BY C. M. BARBER AND T. D. A. COCKERELL.
Putorius frenatus subsp.
neomexicanus n. subsp.
Similar to P. frenatus, but paler in color ; white markings on head more extensive, the white patch between the eyes large, quadrangular, and confluent with the stripes between eye and ear.
Color.
— Upper parts, including legs and body from shoulders to tail, entirely of a uniform pale yellowish ochre, a sort of dilute coffee color, but warmer; feet decidedly pallid, but not white.
Tail the color of the back, but rather more tinged with reddish, the apical 50 mm.
black.
Under parts, including breast and throat, uniform light yellowish-ochreous, a tint like that of the back but somewhat paler.
Head brownish-black ; a large quadrangular creamy-white patch between the eyes, slightly broadest behind, about one-fifth longer than its greatest breadth, narrowly confluent with broad white bands between the eye and ear, which latter extend downward and backward, fading gradually into the ochreous color of the under parts.
Face in front of median white patch slightly speckled with whitish.
Long bristles of upper lip, some black and some white ; a variable amount of white on upper lip ; no black behind angles of mouth.
Hair of ears brown-black, but white hairs from the lateral bands invade the lower anterior parts, overlapping the aperture.
The black of the head fades into brown behind the plane of the ears, and shows here a small whitish mark ; the area behind the lower part of the ears is strongly suffused with blackish, contrasting with the yellowish-white immediately below.
Cranial characters.
— Compared with Merriam's figure of the skull of frenatus (N. A. Weasels, PI.
Ill, f. 1), the skull of neomexicanus is similar, but the frontal region is less narrowed anteriorly and slightly more convex ; and the zyomatic processes seem less produced in a lateral direction ; the occipital condyles are more produced behind.
Total length of skull 54 mm.
; greatest breadth 32 ; interorbital breadth 14J ; foramen magnum to plane of last molars 34 mm.
Measurements (of type specimen in flesh).
— Length 500 mm., tail 205, hind feet 50.
Hab.
— The Mesilla Valley of New Mexico, near the Rio Grande, alt.
about 3,800 ft.
The type specimen was shot in the grass on the shore of Armstrong's Lake, Mesilla, Feb. 1, 1898, by Mr. A. C. Tyson.
It is an old male ; the teeth are somewhat worn and one or two are gone.
It had eaten some small rodent, which from the foot found in the stomach seems to be Onychomys arcticeps Rhoads.
A second specimen, also a male, was given to us by Mr. C. Barnes, who obtained it from Mr. J. J. Roese.
It was killed by a dog in Mesilla Park, and was, unfortunately, much decomposed when it reached our hands.
It agrees with the typical specimen, except that the throat is whiter and there is a little more white on the upper lip.
Mr. Roese reports that he recently saw four specimens together in a road, early in the morning ; this, with the development of the sexual organs, leads us to believe that this (beginning of February and end of January) is the mating season.
A specimen without any history, in alcohol, is in the collection of the New Mexico Agricultural College.
It approaches true frenatus more than our examples, having a spot behind the angle of the mouth, and the white median patch of the head confluent only on one side with the lateral band.
The discovery of P. frenatus neomexicanus extends the range of the frenatus series many hundreds of miles to the north, and into the Upper Sonoran Zone.
One of us, after reading Dr. Merriam's account of the North American weasels, prophesied that there would be a new type found in the Mesilla Valley, and such proves to be the case, the characters of our animal, while surely of no more than subspecific value, being quite distinct.
ON THE GENUS HALIA OF KISSO.
BY WM.
H. DALL.
The systematic position of the genus Halia, a curious deep water gastropod discovered in the last century, has long been contested.
Lamarck (who knew it only by the shell) put it among the landshells like Achatina, Martyn referred it to the whelks (Buccinidce), Jay and Sacco classified it in the vicinity of Struthiolaria, and Sowerby near Purpura.
Fischer, in 1858, was the first to examine it anatomically and concluded that it was one of the Toxifera, related to Pleurotoma.
The paper was one of his earliest and rather crude; though it added materially to our knowledge, the conclusions were not altogether satisfactory to students of molluscan anatomy.
Nevertheless his view has been accepted so late as 1896 by M. Cossmann, one of the leading paleontologists of France.
In 1885 Poirier, of the Paris Museum, was lucky enough to obtain a specimen, a female, like that of Fischer, dredged in fifty fathoms at the mouth of the Gambia River.
His discussion of the dissection 1 added very considerably to our acquaintance with the macroscopic anatomy and that of the nervous system.
He was, however, little less unfortunate than Fischer in his examination of the most important systematic character, the radula, and reported an extraordinary duplication of the oesophagus, such as is quite unknown elsewhere in mollusks, and which would require the most conclusive confirmation to receive credence from anatomists.
Poirier reverted to the opinion of Martyn that Halia is Buccinoid, which being interpreted into systematic language, means that he recognized in it the characteristics of a rhachiglossate Prosobranch, which is essentially correct.
The true relations of this remarkable form were first recognized by Kobelt in a later publication 2 which has unfortunately remained unfinished and has attracted no attention from anatomists.
In view of the fact that the early errors have obtained such a wide currency and that, even in Fischer's Manual, the characters of the nearest allied form are incorrectly 1 Bull.
Malac.
Soc.
de France, July, 1885, pp.
17-50, pi.
II-IV.
2 Inconographie der schalentragenden europ.
Meeresconchylien, II, p. 6. given, it seems worth while to restate the latest and most trustworthy conclusions.
Each tooth of Halia is shaped much like a " wish-bone," the prongs forming an arched divergent base and the central projecting portion at the junction, the cusp.
The attached bases of the arch are turned up a little and indistinctly notched on the edges ; the main part of the arch is free and very prominent.
When the cover glass of the microscopic slide is pressed down upon the radula the pillars of the arch break away from the cusp at their junction, which led Poirier to regard them as a separate series of lateral teeth on each side, and Fischer, not noticing Troschel's explanation of this part of one of his figures, has been led into the same error in regard to the analogous radula of Volutomitra.
Poirier took the notched bases of the broken off lateral portions of the single tooth as the distal ends or cusps of his supposed laterals, directly reversing their true position.
There is only a single row of teeth.
The position of Halia is unquestionably among the Volutacea.
The radula of Scaphella Tumeri as figured by Gray, is almost identical, and that of Volutomitra gronlandica is closely similar.
Halia wants the siphonal appendage of the typical Volutes and so does Volutomitra.
Both Scaphella and Volutomitra are without opercula, like Halia.
The external form of the foot and head is essentially similar in all three.
The texture of the shell of Halia, and also its color and color-pattern, are essentially identical with those of Scaphella (Aurinia) dubia Brod., which has the pillar and plaits degenerate.
The process of degeneration, aided by the more ample whorls of Halia, has completed the effacement of the plaits and the enfeeblement of the pillar or central axis of the shell.
The specimen of Halia at my disposal for study is somewhat worn at the apex, but the form of the nucleus indicates that, like Scaphella and Volutomitra, its nepionic shell was membranous, and has left a rough scar on the surface of the initial shelly coil, a view confirmed by Cossmann's figure of the nucleus of a fossil species.
In Aurinia the degenerate radula is edentulous, but the type, which began in the Eocene, and has retained its color pattern and general characters ever since, is abundant in the Pliocene, and may readily have thrown off the aberrant Halia at that period from which it is known to date.
Halia was erected into a family by Kobelt, but it can hardly be said to possess family characteristics, its essential features being negative and due to degeneration from the normal type of the group to which it belongs.
The characters of the latter, however, fully justify us in separating, from the operculate Volutidce with their calcareous nepionic shell and Buccinoid dentition, the family Scaphellidce, destitute of an operculum, with a membranous nepionic shell and the peculiar dentition above described.
This latter group will include Caricella, Scaphella, Cymbiola, Eopsephcea, Aurinia, Halia, Volutomitra and their allies.
The recent Halia has been dredged along the eastern margin of the Atlantic from the Bay of Biscay to Senegal.
The genus is represented in the Pliocene of Italy by one or two forms which have received distinct specific names.
The type was first named by Meuschen in the Museum Gronovianum in 1778, and was erected into a separate genus by Risso in 1826.
