SALAMANDER OF THE FAMILY DESMOGNATHID^.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
The family Desmognathidse was established by Prof.
Cope for the American genus Desmognathus, of which four species are now known.
Boulenger associated with Desmognatkm the Mexican genus Thorlus (which Cope had regarded as constituting a distinct family), a view which was later accepted by Cope.
Stejneger has added a third genus, Typhloiriton, an interesting blind salamander which occurs in the caves of Missouri.
Among some salamanders collected by me in the mountains of North Carolina are three specimens of a fourth genus which is now described.
LETJROGNATHUS gen. nov. With the osteological characters of the Desmognathidse ; vertebra opisthocoelous ; carpus and tarsus cartilaginous; snout very fiat, broad and depressed; palate not at all vaulted, but very flat and smooth ; premaxillary bones completely coossified, not perforated by a fenestra; internal nares widely separated, much further apart than external nostrils; lungless.
These characters are exhibited in the figures of the skull, Plate XIV, figs.
4, 5, 6 and 10.
Leurognathus marmorata sp.
nov.
Diagnosis.
— Palatine teeth entirely wanting; thirteen costal grooves between the axilla and the groin ; appressed limbs fail to meet by the width of about two costal interspaces; body stout, depressed; tail finned, its length about fiveelevenths of entire length; digits well developed; color buff or ashy, marbled with black.
Description of male type.
— Form rather robust, body depressed, widest in middle, but becoming nearly quadrate at the inserl ion of the hind legs, where the width becomes considerably reduced ventrally, while a thick welt overhangs the bases of the thighs dorsally.
A distinct median dorsal groove extends from the occiput to the base of the tail, meeting the successive pairs of costal grooves, which are conspicuously developed and extend without break from median ventral to median dorsal lines.
Between the origin of the fore and hind limbs there are thirteen pairs of these, the first being directly over the axilla, the thirteenth inguinal.
A fourteenth lies directly over the axis of the femur when the leg is extended at right angles to the body.
Anterior to the axilla are two more incomplete grooves close together.
Somewhat irregularly developed and ill-defined intermuscular grooves are continued for the greater part of the length of the tail.
The tail is five-elevenths of the entire length, quadrate at the base, where it is broader dorsally than ventrally.
While the height remains nearly constant till near the end, the thickness decreases rapidly, so that the posterior two-thirds are decidedly compressed.
The extreme end of the tail is slightly bent up and terminates in a little compressed tubercle.
A prominent doi-sal finfold occupies rather more than its posterior half, reaching its greatest height sixteen millimeters from the tip.
Its free margin is irregular and ragged, the result apparently of wear.
A low dorsal fold continues the fin-fold forward on to the base of the tail.
A much narrower ventral fold, which is highest posteriorly, extends almost half the length of the tail.
The limbs, especially the hind pair, are well developed.
When appressed to the sides of the body the fore limbs reach to a point about half-way between the fifth and sixth costal grooves (counting from the axillary), and the hind limbs similarly appressed reach cephalad of the eighth costal groove, so that the extremities of the two limbs are separated by two costal spaces.
The fore limbs are slightly depressed, the digits are long, slender and entirely free; they increase in length in the following order: i, iv, ii and iii, the number of phalanges being respectively 1, 2, 2 and 3.
Each digit is terminated by a slightly enlarged dark-brown horny nail which is particularly conspicuous on digit i.
No distinct palmar tubercles are developed, but there is a deep groove extending from between the second and third fingers, meeting a curved depressed line which crosses the palm.
The pes is large, broad and flat, with a small first digit and the others long, slender, free and somewhat flattened.
Digit i is less than one-half the length of v, then ii, iv and iii become successively longer, but iii and iv are nearly equal.
The number of phalanges composing the digits from i to v is respectively 1, 2, 3, 3 and 2.
Like those of the hand, the pedal digits bear dark-colored horny tips.
Distinct tubercles are absent, but gi'ooves corresponding to those of the manus are present.
The form of the head is very cliaracteristic, the snout being more flattened than in any of our smaller salamanders; its middle part has no evident curvature whatever.
Outside of a line joining the anterior angle of the eye to the corresponding nostril it slopes gently downward, causing a faintly marked canthus rostralis, but the profile continues straight to a point between the nostrils, anterior to which it bends sharply downward into the alveolar margin of the jaw.
The outline of the snout is a smooth regular curve with a just suggested angle below the nostrils; anteriorly it projects slightly beyond the lower jaw.
The nostrils are smaU but, being surrounded by a raised fold and connected with the margin of the jaw by a groove, are conspicuous.
They are separated by a distance about equal to the cleft of the eye.
The cleft of the mouth is slightly sinuous, and above its angle is a rounded elevation bounded behind by a well-marked vertical groove and above by a branch of this groove which is directed toward the eye.
There is no conspicuously swollen parotid region and the posterior part of the head is smoothly rounded.
The low but wellmarked gular fold is, in this example, perfectly straight and is almost continuous on the sides of the neck with a faint dorsal groove.
One of the most striking features of the species, though not diagnostic among its allies, is the prominence of the rather large eyes, which in the Hving animal are very conspicuous.
This results not so much from their size as from the flatness of the snout which forces them to stand out above its surface.
Both the anterior and posterior angles present small tubercles, Avhile behind the posterior is a distinct vertical curved fold — a spur from the lower eyelid, which is much broader behind.
The upper eyelid about equals the interorbital space in width.
The vent is a narrow longitudinal slit about as long as the diameter of the thigh and situated in the base of the tail.
Its margins are smooth and unmodified.
The surface of the skin is generally smooth, but on the snout is slightly pitted and papillate.
Three series of dermal sense organs are present on the trunk, the middle one being best developed and most complete.
It begins above the axilla, and may be traced about half-Avay along the tail.
The segmental organs are generally one near the anterior border of each costal fold, though some of the anterior somites present two.
The dorsal series is very incomplete and disappears on the tail and middle trunk region.
The ventral series of sense organs is complete on the trunk somites, several of the anterior and posterior of which are provided with two organs each.
On the sides of the head a number of pores are aggregated in a rather large patch behind and below the angle of the mouth.
They are arranged more or less into rows and are connected by a transverse line across the occipital region.
A line of pores extends forward along the lower jaw and a shorter one on the upper jaw.
The color pattern is rather characteristic.
The ground color is a decidedly yellowish buff, everywhere more or less thickly marked, except on the ventral surface, with irregular confluent blotches of black, sometimes distinct, sometimes obscure.
On the parietal, frontal and rostral regions the ground color strongly predominates, while the whole occipital and nuchal regions are heavily blotched.
On the base of the dorsum of the tail the color pattern takes the form of large blotches of the ground color in a network of black.
Extending on to the sides of the body and tail the two colors become interdiftlised, producing a gray color with small light yellow specks.
The ventral surface is pale yellow, largely pure, but becoming clouded on the tail, pelvic region and throat.
The dorsal and ventral surfaces of the limbs are colored respectively like the corresponding surfaces of the body.
The toes are tipped with brown.
Of all regions the palate has the most characteristic appearance.
Inside of the narrow vertical alveolar margins of the jaw which bound it, it presents a broad, perfectly smooth, unbroken and almost flat surface — a low unarched roof to the mouth.
There is no shelf or fold of the integument Avithin and parallel to the alveolar margin, no median pit and no trace of palatine teeth, the region usually occupied by the latter being perfectly smooth and flat.
More remarkable still are the choanse.
These are minute slits lying between the anterior outer margins of the orbits and the maxillary tooth line, and consequently diverging posteriorly, where they are separated by a distance twice that between the external The tongue is broadly reniform, presenting a median longitudinal depression and some irregular wrinkles.
Its margin is smooth, but the greater part of the upper surface is thickly covered with slender papillse, forming a plush-like surface.
The lateral and posterior margins are free, the anterior attached in the middle.
The pedicle of attachment is triangular in section, its broad part corresponding with the anterior margin, and its apex with the posterior emargination.
The female type specimen is larger and more robust, with a shorter tail and broader, more flattened head.
The snout is especially broad and flat, its width on a line with the anterior angles of the eyes being twice its length anterior to that line.
The canthal tubercle is almost obsolete.
The gular fold is distinctly curved forward.
The appressed limbs are separated by slightly more than two costal interspaces.
There is but one groove anterior to the axillary.
The dorsal series of sense pores is better developed than in the male.
The colors are duller and less pure in this example.
The ground color above is buff, large blotches of which alternate with still larger blotches of a purpUsh black on the dorsal surface.
These blotches are largest at the base of the tail and pelvic region, but on the head break up and become intermixed.
Below, the color is very generally a dull yellowish ash.
A second female example, used for dissection and for the preparation of a skeleton, was similar to the last, but had two preaxiUary grooves, as in the male specimen first described.
This species exhibits in its skull many peculiarities Avhich readily distinguish it from any of the described species of Desmognathus, in which the cranial charactei-s are remarkably uniform.
Thorius is clearly separated by the very large size of the nostrils Avhich encroach largely upon the consequently very narrow premaxillary, by the high, narrow and strongly convex snout and by the ossified carpus and tarsus.
The skeleton of Typhlotriton has not been described, but in the arched palate and position of the choanse, etc., this genus approaches Desmognathus, from which it is chiefly distinguished by the strongly developed curved series of palatine teeth and the deep-sunken functionless eyes.
In L. marmorata the orbits are large and cause much of the great relative width of the skuU, while the interorbital portion of the brain case is comparatively narrow.
At their widest part the frontal boues are less than the transverse diameter of the orbit, while in Desmoynatkm they equal or exceed this measurement.
On the other hand, the parasphenoid width is greater in the present species, its interorbital portion being distinctly flattened instead of strongly rounded or even ridged as in Desmognathus.
Consequently a section of this region is quadrate in Leurognathus and nearly triangular in Desmognathus.
A strongly marked raised line crosses the parasphenoid at the posterior margin of the deutigerous plates and joins the periotic process on each side; this is wanting or inconspicuous in Desmognathus and in any case does not reach the periotic process.
The snout is perfectly flat between the just evident canthi rostrales, and the profile is straight from the posterior margin of the orbits to the sharply decurved alveolar margin of the jaw, giving this salamander a physiognomy very different from that of thespecies of Desmognathus, in which there is a strong longitudinal as well as a transverse curvature to this region.
The entire roof and floor of the nasal chamber are closely approximated, resulting in a remarkable shallowness of the passages and a similarity in the form of the palate and suout.
The completely coalesced premaxillaries are broad throughout, being nowhere less than one and onehalf times the diameter of the nares, w^hile the breadth between the latter is more than twice their diameter.
At the frontal suture the premaxillary is truncated and overlaps the frontal, not bifurcated to embrace the mesial process of the latter as in Desmognathus.
The premaxillary fontanelle, so conspicuous in Desmognathus and other genera of salamanders, is entirely closed, its position being indicated only by a slight depression.
The externa] nares are small and separated by a distance of at least twice their diameter.
Extensively developed vomero-palatine bones constitute most of the roof of the mouth, and as they join the premaxillary and maxillaries with perfectly flush joints, the palate is given that strikingly smooth, flat and unbroken appearance which suggested the generic name.
There is no trace of the deep median groove which separates the two halves of this bone auteriorly in Desmognathus and communicates (usually above a narrow bridge of bone) with 'the premaxillary fontanelle.
These bjues are united with the 21 premaxillary for the whole width of its palatal surface.
The internal nares are inconspicuous narrow slits situated close to the anterior margins of the orbits at the extreme posterior outer angle of the vomero-palatines and extending into the palatal plates of the maxillaries.
The actual choanse correspond to the outer ends of these clefts and are consequently very widely separated, a condition very different from that found in Desmofjnathus, in which the clefts cut deep into the vomero-palatines and expand at their inner ends into conspicuous openings, which are the choanre.
The parasphenoid teeth are borne on a pair of long, slender and pointed dentigerous plates, which are placed together as a sagittate area, posterior to the middle of the orbit.
Each plate bears about eighteen or twenty oblique rows of minute teeth, each row containing from five to twelve teeth.
There are about one hundred and twenty jaw teeth above and an equal number below, about fifteen being borne by the premaxillary.
All of these teeth are set on the inner face of the alveolar flange and have simple, blunt, slightly compressed and undivided crowns.
In the posterior part of both jaws they become smaller and more crowded.
In the specimen dissected the posterior cranial region, the pterygoids and the branchio-hyal apparatus are essentially as in Desmor/nathus.
There are sixteen presacral, one sacral and twenty-four postsacral vertebrae.
The visceral anatomy resembles in its general features the three species of Desmognathus which I have studied.
There is no trace of lungs, and it may be added that lungs are entirely absent in Desmognathm nigra and D. orchrojjhcea,^ in which this deficiency has not previously been noted.
The three examples of this sj^ecies above described, being all that have been taken, were found in a large clear rocky pool beneath a waterfall of a stream on the south flank of Grandfather Mt., X. C. , and at an elevation of about 3,500 feet.
From what observations were made they seem to be essentially aquatic, remaining in the deeper parts of the pool and not burrowing beneath stones in places merely wet, as does the D. nigra, which occurs in ^reat numbers in the same region.
L. marmorata is much less ^ The examples of this species M'hich Wilder originally de-cribe.l as lungless have more recently been identified as belonging to the species Spelerpes bilineatns.
active than the latter species and swims rather sluggishly, but with an easy gliding motion.
The individuals seen seemed rather shy, and when alarmed quickly took refuge under the large rocks scattered through the pool, from beneath which, however, they were easily induced to emerge by the attraction of pieces of meat or worms thrown into the water.
Measurements in Millimeters.
Type (^.
Type $ .
Total length Tail, from posterior margin of thighs.
.
Head, from gular fold to end of muzzle Snout, from anterior angle of eyes Width at anterior angle of ej'es Width at posterior angle of jaws Width at gular fold Depth at lip of snout, approximately.. .
Depth midway betAveen eyes Depth midway between angle of jaws.
Depth at gular fold Eatire length of arm and hand , Entire length of leg and foot 98.
45.
13.5 4.2 9.5 1.8 31 4.7 6.
12.
16.6 108.
17.5 14.
4.4 8.5 11.
10.5 2.3 3.4 5.
13'.
17.
117.
51.
15.
4.5 9.5 11.
10.5 2.
3!
5 5.
14!
18.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIV.
Figures 1 to 10, Leurognathus marmorata.
Fig.
1.
The male type, showing the external features from the side.
The position of the lateral line sensory pores is indicated by small circles.
Natural size.
Figs.
2 and 3.
Lateral aod ventral views of the head of the same specimen.
X 3.2.
In fig.
3 the nostrils are slightly too close together.
Figs.
4, 5 and 6.
Lateral, ventral and dorsal views of the skull of a slightly larger female specimen.
X 3.2.
The internal and external nares are blackened and the position of the actual choante in the entire head is indicated by a ring of dots in fig.
5.
Fig.
7.
Dorsal aspect of the tongue disk of the same female, showing a small area of the closely set papilla?.
X 3.2.
Figs.
8 and 9.
Palmar aspect of the fore and hind feet of the example represented in fig.
1.
X 3.2.
Fig.
10.
Section of the skull of the female represented in figs.
4-6, taken just anterior to the internal nares.
X 3.5. p, premaxillary; f, frontal; m, maxillary; v, vomero -palatine; na, nasal passage, which is represented by shading.
Fig.
11.
A similar section of Desmognathus nigra.
X 3.5. n, nasal bone ; the remaining lettering as in fig.
10.
THE MARINE FISHES OF PERU.
BY JAMES FRANCIS ABBOTT.
The study of the iclithyology of the west coast of South America, which was beguu by Valeucieuues iu the early volumes of the Histolre Naturelle, has been carried ou since iu a very desultory way.
The only general works that have appeared have been the fairly extensive Fauna Chilena of Claude Gay, published in 1848, and the, ichthyologically, very incomplete Fauna Peruana of Tschudi, published in 1845.
The former contains descriptions of 108 species of fishes, the latter of but nineteen.
Whatever work has been done since has consisted merely of isolated descriptions of single species or of small collections that have occasionally fallen into investigators' hands.
Tschudi himself made extensive collections in Peru, but through a series of misfortunes they were nearly all lost.
A few years before, the results of the voyage of " The Beagle ' ' had been published, and the fishes collected by Darwin, quite a number of which had been taken from the west coast of South America, were described by Dr. Leonard Jenyns.
But by far the greater number of the species known from this region have been described by Kner and by Steindachner.
The Ichthyologuche Not'izen, which were published by the latter at intei-vals from 1864 to 1870, and the Ichthyologische Beitrdge, which followed from 1874 to 1882, contain numerous descriptions of species from Peru and Chile.
In 1867-68 Kner published the results of his work upon the fishes in the Godeffroy Museum at Plamburg, which contained many South American examples collected by the captains of Hamburg merchant vessels.
More recently Steindachner has described the collection of fishes obtained by Dr. L. Plate in his extensive exploration of Chile.
^ Many of these are from Iquique, and are here included, while others heretofore known only from Peru or northward are recorded from Chilean waters for the first time.
'Fauna Chilensis, ii, Supplement to Zoologische Jahrb'uchcr, July, 1S98.
iViid yet it is fair to state that the total number of valid species known to-day from Cape Horn to the equator does not exceed 300, and of these only 100, more or less, are found between the equator and the Tropic of Capricorn.
In contrast to this we recognize over 300 species along the west coast of Mexico and Central America alone, from Panama to the Tropic of Cancer.
It is certain that the southern region is fully as rich as the northern, and the field — at least of Peru — remains practically unexplored.
Very nearly all the material that has been collected has been obtained from one source — the fish-markets.
The tidepools are untouched, the deep-sea fishes almost unknown, and a multitude of forms, of little importance economically but of great interest scientifically, await the word of the investigator to introduce them to the world.
The basis of the pi'esent paper has been a collection of marine fishes made in Callao by RearAdmiral L. A. Beardslee, U. S. N., retired, on a cruise of U. S. S. " Philadelphia," during the month of January, 1896.
Though rather small, the coUection contains a great deal of interesting material.
The scattered condition of the literature has hindered a study of the subject, and one of the principal purposes of the present brief paper has been to collect and modernize the synonymy of the species inhabiting this region.
We have included all the marine species known to us, inhabiting a range from Pecasmayu bay on the north to Iquique on the south, and limited in a general way by the political boundaries of Peru.
The detailed synonymy has been given for all references to the west coast of South America, and the author responsible for the present generic and specific name of each form has been cited, but otherwise only enough synonymy has been included to guide the reader to other,' sources.
The page references to Cope and Steindachner are those of the reprints containing their descriptions.
The habitats given to many species by early workers were very general, and many ranges that we have copied from their descriptions will doubtless have to be restricted.
A few species have been described from ' * the west coast of South America, ' ' and have been admitted provisionally into the present list until future investigation shall have established their true position.
One hundred and two species, belonging to forty-two families, arc here recognized as valid.
Of these, fifty ai'C confined to the Peruvian region, twenty-seven are common to both Peru and Chile, and thirteen are recorded north of the equator.
The following are here described as new : Basilichthys odavius.
Basilichthys regillus.
Basilichthys jordani.
Pi-sdregia heardsleei, new gen. and sp.
Sciaena gilberti.
The writer wishes to express his indebtedness to Admiral Beardslee, through whose efforts the Callao collection was made, and the present paper made possible.
He is also indebted to Mr. James Douglas Ogilby, of Sydney, N. S. W., who has contributed important information and .suggestions, as well as to Dr. G. A. Boulenger, of the British Museum, who has very kindly examined types and in other ways rendered valuable assistance.
Especially must he express his obligations to Dr. Charles H. Gilbert, of Leland Stanford, Jr. University, in Avhose laboratory the work was carried on, and to President David Starr Jordan, Avho has taken a personal interest in the work and who personally supervised it.
BR ANO HIOSTOMID^.
1.
Branchiostoma elongatum Sundevall.
B. elonr/at/rm.
Sundevall, (Efvers.
Vet.
Akatl.
Forhandl., 1852, 147 ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 334, 189S.
Steindachner records this species from Cavancha bay, Iquique.
GALEID^.
2.
Galeus mento (Cope).
Mastelus mento Cope, Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc, May 4, 1877, 31 [Pecasmayu Bay, Peru].
Mustelus edulis Perez Canto, Estudias sobre algunos Escualos de Chile, 4, 1886 ; E. A. Philippi, Ann.
del Universidad de Chile, Ixxi, 1887, 15.
Local name, Tollo.
This species, which is not represented in the present collection, is very close to G. dorsalis, from which it differs especially in the more anterior position of the first dorsal, the distance between the origin of that fin and the tip of the snout being about six and two-thirds times iu the total length (Philippi).
The flesh is much esteemed as food by the Chilean people.
Range.
— Peeasmayu bay to Juan Fernandez.
\ 3.
Galeus dorsalis (Gill).
MustelHs dorxidis Gill, Proe.
Acad.
Phila., 1864, 149 [Panama].
Oaleus dorsalis Jordan and Evermann, Fishes of -North and Middle America, i, 30, 1896.
Local name, Cazon.
The five specimens in the collection shoAV a most remarkable color variation.
Two of them have the typical silvery plumbeous ground color, paler ventrally and slightly flecked with light spots along the sides.
The other three are transversely barred with about sixteen rather broad black bands, extending across the back halfway down on each side.
There are five or six in front of the first dorsal, the two anterior ones bounding the interorbital space.
These are not sex markings, as both sexes occur in each variety.
The most careful comparison and elaborate and accurate measurements fail to reveal any other difference.
The anal arises under the posterior third of the dorsal, barely extending beyond that fin.
The following measurements are in hundredths of the total length and have been computed on the U.
8.
Fish Commission's proportional scale : Snout to origin of first dorsal 29-.
31 Base of first dorsal 11-.
12 Anterior margin of first dorsal.
12 Distance between two dorsals 20-.
22 Base of second dorsal 05.
09 Anterior margin of second dorsal 10-.
11 Second dorsal to tip of caudal 30.
32 Distal lobe of caudal 07-.
09 Anterior edge of ventral 07-.
09 Anterior margin of pectoral 13-.
14 Tip of snout to eye 08 Eye 03 Eye to origin of first dorsal 20-.
22 Anal to tip of caudal 29 Length 300-430 mm.
Range.
— Gulf of California, Panama, Callao.
For comparison the following measurements were taken on a specimen of G. dorsalis collected by Dr. Gilbert at Panama: Snout to first dorsal .
31 Base of first dorsal 12 Margin of first dorsal 13 luterdorsal 20 Base of second dorsal 10 Anterior margin second dorsal 10 Second dorsal to caudal tip .
.
27 Caudal lobe Ofio Anal to caudal tip 26 Anal to ventrals 15^Ventral, anterior margin 08 Anal, anterior margin 075 Pectoral to ventral 25 Anterior margin of pectoral 15 Snout to pectoral (second slit) 21 Snout to eye 085 Eye 025 4.
Carcharhinus brachyrrhynclius (Pailippij.
Carcharias brachyrrhynclius Philippi, Tiburoues de Chile, Ana'.
Univ.
Chile, tomo Ixxi, 8, 1887 [Iquique].
SPHYRNID^.
5.
Sphyrna peruana (Philippi).
Zygaena peruana Philippi, Tiburones, etc , de Chile, Auales Univ.
de Chile, lomo Ixxi, 13, 1887.
Very abundant on the coast of Peru (Philippi).
SQUATINIDiE.
6.
Squatina armata (Philippi).
RJiina armata Philippi, 1. c. .
29, lam vii, fig.
1.
Iquique.
RAJID^.
7.
Psammobatis brevicaudatus Cope.
P. brevicaudatus Cop^", Proc.
Amer.
Pliil.
Soc, May 4, 1877, p. 32.
Habitat.
— Pecasmayu bay, Peru.
8.
Eaja chilensis Steindachner.
Raja cliilemis Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 332, Taf.
21, fig.
15, 1898.
Habitat.
— Iquique.
NARCOBATIDJE.
9Discopyge tschudii HeckeL Disnipyge f.srhudii Heckel, iu Tschndi, Fauna Peruana, Fish 33, Taf.
6, *1845 ; Steindachuer, Fauna Chilensis, ii.
33-2, Taf.
21, fig.
14146, 1898 [Calbuco, Chile].
Following is the original description : " Genus Discopyge Hackel, MSS.
Caract.
Gen. Discus orbicularis.
Os transversum ad angulos labiis incrassatis instructum; maxilla medio lamina dentali extrorsum inflexa, denticulis minimis in quincuncim dispositis.
Dentes plani rhomboidales, angulo postico acuto.
Velum pone maxillam superiorera et inferiorem.
Valvula nasalis truncata, in medio processu sinuato instructa, subtus frenulo cum plica circulari oris juncta.
Spiraculaoculis adjacentia, margine nudo.
Pinnre ventrales sub cauda in unam junctse.
Pinnse dorsales dute iequales.
Pinnse caudales oblique ovatce (Heckel in lit.
j.
"Z>.
tschudii Hicckel.
DieSclieibe ist,Avenn man sich die Wenduug der Brustflossenriinder als iu ihi^er Eichtuug fortlaufend uud riickwiirts verbunden denkt, volkommen kreisrund.
"DerMund liegt am Ende des vordern diametralen Yiertlieils dieser Scheibe und sein Querdurchmesser macht den dritten Theil dieses Viertheils oder die Entferuung von dera Mund bis zum Scheibenrande aus; er ist yerschiebbar wie bei Narcine oder den Accipenserarten.
An den "NVinkebi umgibt ilm ein fleischiger Lippenwulst, unter dem die kleineu obern und untern Lippenknorpel bemerkbar sind.
Die iu den Mundholilen breiteren Zahnplatten beider Kiefer wenden sich schmaler werdend nach aussen iiber den mittleren Mundrand um und schlagen sich gleich einer mit Ziihuen gepflasterten ]Mittellippe zwischen den beiden eigentlichen Winkellippen zuriick.
Die untere Plattenumschlag ist etwas schmaler, verliert sich riickwiirts spitzer; der obere ist etwas breiter, weniger umgescblagen und abgerundet.
Die Ziihne auf diesen Zahnplatten stehen nicht nur dicht in verschobenen Keihen (quincunx) aneinander, sondern iiberdecken sich ein wenig mit ihrem hinteru Raude; die innerste oder langste Eeihe enthjilt uugefiihr 12 Zahne, die nachfolgeudeu nehmen allmahlig ab.
Die einzelnen Ziihne sind glatt, flach, beiuahe rhomboidal uud an jenen in der Mundhohle sitzenden verKiugert sich der nach hintern geAvendete Winkel in eine kleine scharfe Spitze.
Sowohi hinter der imteru als obern Zahnplatte scliiebt sich ein dem Ansehen nach glatter Kiefersegel hervor unci verschliesst beinahe die ganze Mundhcile gleich einem zweiteu Kieferpaare.
Die Entfernung der beiden Nasenlocher von einander gleicht 1 , 5 der Mundbreite.
Die Nasenklappe ist etwas schraaler, reicht zuriickgelegt bis an den Lippenwulst und hat in der ^Slitte einen vorspriugeuden ausgebuchteten Lappen, der den Umschlag der obern Zahnplatte zwischen den oberen Lippenrudimenten genau iiberdeckt und verhiillt, Wird die Nasenklappe vorwiirtsgeschlagen, so zeigt sich dieser vorspringende Lappen als das nach beiden Seiten etwas ausgebreitete Ende des Nasenbandchens (Frenulum), welches durch seine Basis mit der allgemeinen, den ganzen Mund umfassenden circuliiren Hautfalte in Verbindung steht.
Die Augen sind, Avie gewohnlich, sehr klein, liegen senkrecht iiber dem Mund in einer zweimal so grosseu Entfernung als die Nasenlocher auseinander.
Dicht hinter den Augen befinden sich die grossen glattrandigen Spritzlocher.
Weiter riickwlirts bemerkt man, wie an andern Torpedlnes, zwei nahe aneinander liegende, Schleim ausfiihrende Poren auf dem Riicken, die aber hier nur um ein Drittheil des Augenzwischenraumes hinter den Spritzlochern liegen.
Die electrischen Organe scheinea aus minder zahlreichen SiiuLschen zu bestehen als in den Gattungen Torpedo und Narciae ; ihre Gestalt ist, wie gewohnlich, meistens hexagon.
"Der hintere Rand der Brustflos?en iiberdeckt den Anfang der Bauchflossen deren gemeinschafUicher hinterer Rand ein mit der Scheibe paralleles, zu beiden Seiten abgerundetes Bogensegment darstellt.
Diese so merkwiirdige Vereinigung beider Bauchflossen miteinauder, welcher einigermassen an diederTrichterlo?en Gobien errinnert, geschiet mittelst einer an der untern Schwanzbasis hinter dem After befestigten Membran.
Die L'inge des Schwanzes vom After bis zum iiusseren Flossenrande is dem Diameter der Scheibe gleich.
Zu beiden Seiten des Schvvanzes laufen den ganzen L'inge nach zwei horizontale, breite Keilfalten hin und enden etwas nach dem Anfange der terminalen, ruderfiirmlgen, schief abgerundeten Schwanzflosse, Beide auf dem Schwanzriicken sitzendeu Riickenflossen sind gleich gross und folgen nahe aufeinander; die erste beginut etwas vor dem Bauchflossenrande und die zweite reicht zuriickgelegt iiber den Anfang der Schwanzflosse, ihre Hiihe iibertrifft die Llinge der Basis um einen Viertheil.
"Fdrbung.
— Die gauze Oberseite ist dunkel rothlichbrauu, auf der Mitte des Riickens dunkler als an den Sclieibeurandern.
Unteikorper matt weisslich.
"Lange, 5" — 6'".
GWlsste Breite, 2" — 10.5'".
"Vorkommen.
— Das hier beschriebene Exemplar wurde in der Heradura eiuer Caleta zwischeu Huacho und Chancay, gefangeu."
MYLIOBATID^.
10.
Myliobatis californicus Gill.
Uolorhinus vespertilio Gill, Troc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1862, 331 ; Myliohatis calif ornk us Jordan and Gilbert, Synopsis', 51, 1883.
Local name, Raya.
One specimen, from whicli unfortunately the tail has been cut.
Breadth of disc, 470 mm.
; line from eye to origin of ventrals, 200 mm.
; breadth of head, 80 mm.
; distance between nasal openings, 31 mm.
; width of first middle tooth, 16 mm.
; length, 4 mm.
Range.
— Cape Mendocino, San Diego, Callao.
SILURID^.
11.
Galeichthys peruanus Liitken.
G(il(i('hthi/s peruanris Liitken, Ichthyographische Bidraor, ii (Vidensk.
Meded., 1874, 20.i) [Callao] ; Steindachner, Ichthyol.
Beitriige, iv, 34 (S. B. Ak.
Wien, Ixxii, 1875) [Callao, Altata, Panama].
Tachysiirus peruanus Eigenmann and Eigenmann, Proc.
Calif. Acad.
Sci., 2d Series, i, 140, 1888 [CallaoJ ; iUd., Eevision of South American Nematognathi, Occasional Papers, i, Cal.
Acad.
Sci., 51, 1890 [Callao].
Local name, Bagre (common for most Sihiroids).
Three specimens.
Head .25 of total length, depth .16.
Distance from snout to oi'igin of dorsal .31; gill rakers 5 -f 9, 6 -f10, 6 -f8; D. I, 6 to 7, A.
14 to 15.
One 9 specimen (No.
11,962, L. S., Jr., U. )
appears to difler from the others, but not sufficiently to warrant separating it from the species.
The head is somewhat shorter, .22 in total length; the ventrals are longer, .
16 in total length.
The dorsal is inserted somewhat more anteriorly (.29 to end of snout) and the outline of the humeral process is orbicular instead of being irregular, as in the other specimens.
The number of gill rakers in all three differs somewhat from the count given by Eigenmann.
Length 290-320 mm.
Range.
—Callao to Tropic of Cancer.
LEPTOOEPHALID^.
12.
Leptocephalus multimaculatus Steiudachner.
L. mulfimaculatus Stein., Ijhthyologisc.
Notizen, ix, 27, 1809 ["Peru"].
13.
Leptocephalus peruanus Steiudachner.
L. peruanus Stein., Ichthy.
Notizen, ix, 28, 1869 [Peru].
OPHICHTHYIDiB.
14.
Ophichthus callaensis (Gunther).
Ophirhthys callaensis Giinther, Jour.
Mus.
Godeffroy, iv, 92 [Callao].
We have been uuable to cou.sult the descriptiou of this species.
15.
OpMchthus pacifici (Giiather).
Ophirhthys pacifici Giiather, Cat.
Fisli.
Btit.
Mus.
, viii, 76, 1870 ["Cliile and Peru"].
16.
Ophichthus grandimaculatus (Kner and Steiudachner).
OphicJithys grandimaculata Kner and Steind., Sitz.
Ak.
Wiss.
Wien., 1866, liv, 389, fig.
13 (Neue Fische aus Mus.
Godef., 34) [Peru].
1 7.
Ophichtlius uniserialis (Cope).
OjjJiicJothy s uniserialis Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc, 1877, 31 [Pecasmayu bay].
MURAENIDu^E.
18.
Lycodontis wieneri (Sauvage).
Gymnothorax wieneri Sauvage, Bnll.
de la Societe Philomathique de Paris, July 7, 1883, 161 ["Chile or Peru' (sic)].
CLUPEID^.
19.
Clupanodon fimbriata (Kner and Steindachner).
Aliisa fimbriata Kner and Stein., Sitz.
Ak.
"Wiss.
"Wien, 1866 (Neue Fische aus Mus.
GodefEr., 31, fig.
15 [Valparaiso].
Clupea sagax Giinther (not of Jenyns), Cat.
Brit.
Mus , vii, 443, 1868.
Local name, Sardina.
H. 31; D. 4i-4i DorsallS (19) ; anal 16 (18).
20 scutes anterior to ventrals, 15 between ventrals and anus.
Maxillary 2^ in head.
Compared with C. ccerukus, the rays in the dorsal are more numerous and are j^eculiar in that the last two and again the two preceding are pressed out side by side so as to lie in two layers covered by the enlarged scales at the base of the fin.
The head is longer, the ventral scutes more numerous and the striis on opercle much more numerous and finely divided than in cceruleus.
Compared Avith specimens of the same species from Valparaiso, no constant differences Avere observed, except in the head, which is slightly shorter in the latter specimens.
Four individuals, length 240-300 mm.
Range.
— Chile and Peru, coastwise.
20.
Potamalosa notacantlioides (Steindachner).
C'lupea (Alosa) iiotacanthoides Stein., Ichthy.
Notizen, ix, 20, PL vii, (good).
Local name, Machete.
This species is very closely related to Potamalosa (Clupea) notacanthm (Giinther)," from Valparaiso, with which it may be identical.
The type locality of Steindachner' s species was given erroneously as Mazatlan, but the specimen doubtless came from further down the coast.
The principal differences that separate the two species lie in the scales, which are striate and fimbriate in notacanthoides, and in the veinules of the opercle which are very prominent in that species.
Dr. Boulenger very kindly examined the types of C'lupea notacanthm for us.
He says: " The scales, about 48 in lat.
line, show no trace of striations and the opercle is not veined.
The dorsal scutes number 23 and 27 respectively.
No traces of dark spots."
It is worthy of note, however, that Giinther's types are all small, 4 inches, and it may be that the difference in size and age is accountable for the differences noted above.
We have examined specimens of P. notacanthoides from Valparaiso, and find that they agree with those from Callao in every particular.
The diagnosis of the genus Potamalosa,' which was created to receive the s])ecies P. aatlqua Ogilby ( Clapea nomehollandm Giinther, not Meletta novcehollandke Valenciennes) will have to be somewhat modified to admit P. notacanthoides.
The constant characters that appear to be of generic value are the position of the dorsal, which originates well in advance of the middle of the body, the number of branchiostegals and the rays of the anal.''
Five specimens, 1.
200-240 mm.
Head 3-3i; depth 3; eye 4^5; pectoral 14 in head (as in Steindachner' s figure, 2f in his description).
There is considerable ' Giinther.
Cat.
Fishes Brit.
Mus., vii, 443, 1868.
^Ogiiby, Proc.
Linn.
See.
N. S. Wales, xxi, 1896, 504 (1897).
Ibid., I.e., 1897, Pt.
i, Apr.
28, p. 70.
* The following synopiis will show the differences between the two species of the genus : Gen. Potamalosa Ogilby.
Origin of dorsal well in advance of middle of body ; branchiostegals 8 or 9 ; anal rays 18 or less, — (a) Dorsal scutes feeble ; scales peciinate and striate ; muciferous system highly developed ; opercle veined notacanthoides.
(b) Dorsal scutes prominent ; sealer entire ; muciferous system confined to main arteries ; opercle quite smooih anitqua.
variation iu the number of ventral scutes, which run from 19 to 21 before the ventrals and from 16 to 18 behind them.
Dorsal scutes 24 — 27 in one specimen (misprinted 7 in Steindachner' s description).
Opercular veinules prominent.
Color, above dark greenish brown, below silvery yellow.
Dorsal dark, caudal with broad dark margin; other fins pale, six or eight round or elongate dark blotches along the side in the silvery portion.
A like number more or less parallel with them in the darker upper half of body, just above the color line.
Habitat.
— Coasts of Chile and Peru.
21.
Potamalosa (•) maculata (Cuvier and Valenciennes).
Alausa maculata Cuv.
and Val., Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., xx, 4.30 (18-17) [Valpiraiso] ; Gay, Hist.
Chile Zo)l., ii, 322, lam.
10, fig.
2.
Clupea maculata Giinther, Cat.
Brit.
Mns., vii, 443, [CallaoJ ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, .330, 18.^8 [Iquique].
This species is very close to Potamalosa notacanthoides and possibly belonars to that genus, though no dorsal serrature has been de.'-cribed.
But the type specimens in the British Museum are in such poor condition that one is not warranted in saying that a dorsal serrature is absent in the adult, ^ and in the description of Steindachner' s single specimen no mention is made of the matter.
1 therefore, for the present, place m%eulatx with notaeanthokles in Potamalosa.
Range.
— Coasts of Peru and Chile.
2 2.
Clupanodon sagax (Jenyns).
Clupea saga.v Jenyns.
Voj.
Beagle, 134, 1842 [San Lorenzo isl.]
; Giinther, Shore Fislies, Challenger, 25, 18S0 [Valparaiso] ; Steindachner, Fauna Cailensis, 331, 1898 [Iquique].
2 3.
Clupanodon fimbriatus (Kner and Steindachner).
Alausa fiinbriata Kner and Stein., Neue Fische, Mus.
Goiefr., 31, fig.
15 ; Sitz.
Ak.
Wiss.
Wiea, 1866 [Valparaiso].
Local name, Sardina HispaTia.
Two specimens.
The pectoral is a little longer than in the original description, If in head.
The species is readily distinguished from C. cceruleus by the greater number of fin rays and the numerous and more delicate strise on sides of head.
Length, 300 mm.
Range.
— Coasts of Peru and Chile, *Dr. a.
A. Boulenger, in lit., 6, 15, 98.
ENGRAULIDID^.
24.
Stolephorus tapirulus (Cope).
EngrauUs tdpirulus Cope, Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc, May 4, 1877 (separate, p. 29) [Pecasmayu bay?].
The two specimeu.s in the collection evidently belong to this species.
The brevity, of Cope's description, however, seems to require a more extended one.
D. 14, A.
23-24, depth 4i-, head 3^, eye 4-4^ in head, 5 in snout, equal to interorbital.
Body strongly compressed, outline not strongly curved.
Head very acute, top flat.
Mouth very oblique, giving head a triangular outline, the depth at occiput equalling length.
Maxillary very long, acutely truncate, extending slightly past articulation of mandible and quadrate.
Teeth very small.
Gill rakers long and slender, but shorter than eye.
Dorsal low, its origin nearer beginning of caudal than end of snout by twice the diameter of eye.
Its longest ray about two in head.
Pectoral If in head, not reaching ventrals by half diameter of eye.
Ventrals short, 3^ in head, extending slightly beyond perpendicular from origin of dorsal.
Anal low, beginning slightly in advance of vertical from end of dorsal base.
Scales thin, about 37 in a series from pectoral to caudal.
Color, silvery yellowish.
Lateral band rather obscure, mediate.
Scales above fiQely sprinkled with black dots.
Snout and top of head peppered with dots.
Occiput dark.
Length 180 mm.
This species is close to S. peraamis Steindachner, differing in the smaller number of dorsal and anal fin rays, origin of anal, length of pectoral, j^ositiou of lateral stripe and depth of head at occiput (2 in head in S. peruanus').
Two specimens.
Local name, Llanamarca.
2 5.
Stolephorus peruanus (Steiudachner).
EngrauUs peruanus Stein., Ich.
Beitra^e, viii, 60, 1878 [Callao].
2 6.
EngrauUs nasus (Kner and Steindachner).
E. uasus Kiier and Stein., Neiie Fische aus Mus.
Godeffr., 33, fig.
17, 18(36 [Chinchas islands, Peru].
This species is certainly distinct from E. ringens, differing in having a larger eye, greater depth and much longer premaxillary.
2 7.
Engraulis ringens Jenyns.
Engraulis ri/igens Jenyns.
Voy.
Beagle, 136, 1842 [Callao] ; Steindacliner, Ich.
Beitrage, 62, 'jH79 ; Giinther.
vii, 386, 1968 ; Steindachner, Fauna Cbileusis, 331, 1898 [Tumbes, Chile].
Local name, Anchobeta.
The single specimen of this species is a typical Engraulis, and when compared with the California specimens of E. mordax estabhshes Avithout doubt the individuality of the two species.
They differ most markedly in coloring and in the shape of the head.
The specimens of E. mordax examined are truly spindleshaped, the dorsal and ventral outlines curving symmetrically from snout to tail; in E. ringens the dorsal outline is nearly straight, the greatest body depth is at the pectorals and the ventral outline slopes without much curve to the caudal peduncle which is slightly thicker in ringens (3^ in head to 3f in mordax).
In the former species the head is deeper in proportion to its length, being If in its length at the occiput to lf-l|^ in E. mordax.
The maxillary is contained 5^ times in the length in ringens, 4^ in mordax.
In the former species the mandible reaches nearer to the end of the snout than in the latter, ending about half way between nostril and tip of snout.
In E. mordax it does not quite reach nostril, thus falsely giving E. ringens the appearance of having a shorter snout.
The distance from the end of the mandible to the tip of the snout is contained 1| in the eye in ringens, to 1^ in mordax.
In ringens the gill cleft is much longer, beginning almost level with the back and the opercle is correspondingly produced, rounding out in a full curve instead of descending abruj^tly to the posterior angle as in mordax.
The distance between the limit of the interopercle and the outer edge of the opercle at the upper angle of gill cover is contained in the head 5^ times in E. ringens, 7 times in E. mordax.
In ringens the pectorals reach two-thirds of the way to the ventrals, in mordax they extend almost to the ventrals.
In the former species the anal is somewhat more posterior, the distance from the end of the anal to the beginning of the caudal being contained twice in the head, to 2h times in mordax.
The anal is somewhat shorter in the former, its base being contained 6 times in the length to 5^ in mordax.
The dorsal is also shorter, its base being contained 2f times in tlie head in the former to twice in the hatter.
In the former the veutrals are 3 in the head, in the latter 2^.
The specimen in hand is dark olive green above the silvery stripe.
This is narrower than in specimens of E. mordax examined, beginning about midway of the body, wliile in mordax the silvery part covers about three-quarters of the side.
D. 14; A.
20.
Length, 112 mm.
Habitat.
— Coasts of Peru and Chile.
STROMATEIDuE.
28.
Stromateus maculatus Cuvier and Valenciennes.
Stromateus maculatus Cuv.
and VaL, Hist.
Xat.
Pois., ix, 399, 1833 [Valparaiso] ; (?)
Jenyns, Zool.
Beagle, Fishes, 74, 1839 [Chiloe] ; Gay, Hist.
Chile, Zool., ii, 248, Atl.
Ichth., lam 3 bis., f. 1 ; Fordice.
Review of Stromateidae, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Bci.
Phila., 1884, 314 [Rio Grande do Sul] ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 299, 1898 [Puerto Montt, Chile].
This species belongs to the more southern Chilean fauna, but Valenciennes is authority for the statement (ix, 400) that it is a common market fish at Lima from May to July, and hence may be considered to range from Peru to Patagonia (Jenyns).
EXOOOHTID^.
29.
Exocoetus volitans Linnseus.
Exocoetus evolans Linnaeus, Systema Natura, Ed.
xii, 521, 1766.
Exocoetus chilcnsis Abbott, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1860, 472 [Chile].
Halocypselus evolans Jordan and Gilbert, Synopsis, 377, 1883 [Atlantic coast, U. S.].
Exocoetus volitans Jordan and Evermann, Fishes of N. A., 1898, Addenda, p. 2835.
Although there are no specimens of this species in the Beardslee collection, yet we have identified some taken 6° south of the equator in the East Pacific by the U. S. S. " Albatross," and it may be considered to be within the limits of Peruvian waters.
30.
Exonautes speculiger (Cuvier and Valenciennes).
(.?)
Exocoetus exiliens Jenyns, Zool.
Voyage Beagle, Fishes, 122, 1842 (not of Gmelin) [Coast of Peru].
Exocoetus speculiger Cuv.
and Val., Hist.
Nat.
Pois., xix, 94, 1846 [Pacific coast, S.
A.].
Exocoetus rufipinnis Cuvier and Val., Hist.
Nat.
Pois., xix, 99, 1846 [Payta, Peru].
Exonautes speculiger Jordan and Evermann, op.
cit.. Addenda, 2836, 1898.
The fish described by Jenyns as Exoca:ius exiliens Bloch without doubt belongs to this species.
22 SYNGNATHIDiB.
31, Leptonotus blainvillianus (Eydoux and Gervais).
Syngnathus hlain-vilUanns Eydoux and Gervais, in Guerin, Mag.
ZoiJl., 1837, iv, pi.
17 ; Voyage Favorite, Zool., 79, pi.
32 ; Glinther, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., viii, 162, 1868 ; Gay, Hist, de Chile, ii, 348, 1848 ; Steindachuer, Fauna Chilensis, 331, 1898 [Tumbes, Chile].
Leptonotus blainvillei Kaup, Lopliobrauchii of Brit.
I\Ius., 46, 1856 [Peru].
Peru, Chile (India, Auckland Islands, New Zealand, Kinqj).
32.
Siphostoma aciculare (Jenyns).
Syngnathus ackularis Jenyns, Fishes, Voyage Beagle, 147, pi.
xxvii, fig.
3, 1842 [Valparaiso] ; Steindachner, Fauna Chileusis, 331, 1898 [Iquique].
ATHERINIDiE.
The large Atherinoids of the west coast of South America form in number a very considerable proportion of the fish fauna of that region.
They are of the very finest of food fishes and with Mugil cephalus comprise the bulk of the market fish in Callao and Lima during the months of December and January, great quantities being consumed daily.
Until recently, nearly all fishes of the Basilichthys group have been referred to the two species, Basilichthys {Atherimchthys') laticlavia Cuv.
and Val.
and B. microlepidotm Jenyns, both originally from Chile.
But it is evident that there must exist a great variety of forms throughout the whole region.
Gay, indeed, hazarded the suggestion {Fauna Chilena, p. 255) that there " must be many other species [than the above two] in the seas, lakes and rivers of Chile."
Two of these have recently been described by Steindachner* as Chirostoma (Basilichthys) affine and C. gracile, both very closely related to the forms here described.
B. microlepi dolus has been very well figured and described by Jenyns,' Girard* and Kner.
* It is characterized especially by the small, low, few-spined, first dorsal set rather close to the second dorsal.
B. laticlavia has been less fortunate.
The original description" is too brief to offer any decisive characters separating it from the closely related species and its status was not improved by the altered description of the species Avhich Giinther gives in his « Fauna Chilensis (von L. Plate gesam.
), 281-339, July, 1898. '
Voyage Beagle, 78, pi.
xvi, 1, 2, 1841.
«U.
S. Astron.
Exp.
Southern Hem., ii, 238, pi.
xxx, 6-9, 1854.
9 Novara Fische (ii), 222 (no plate), Wien, 1865. i«Cuv.
and Val., Hist.
Poiss., x, 473, 1835.
Catalogue (Vol.
iii, 402).
It is likely that either the specimens described by Giiuther did not belong to laticlavia, or else that more than one species was included under that name.
However, from Valenciennes' descriptions it is evident that laticlavia has the head shorter in proportion to the length than in any other related species of which we know, except affine, and the first dorsal is relatively more posterior than in any species we have examined.
Basilichthys brevianalis (Giinther)" from Valparaiso has larger scales than any of the Peruvian species (67 in lateral line) and B. alhurnus (Giiuther)'' from the Strait of Magellan, much smaller scales (105 in lateral line).
Humboldt observed a Piexe-rey at Callao to which he gave the name regia, and which is described by Cuvier and Valenciennes,^' but so briefly that it is almost impossible to refer any specimen definitely to that species.
The genus Basilichthys, as here understood, includes those Atherinoids with premaxillaries protractile and broadened posteriorly, scales small (70-100 in lateral line), and with the upper jaw developed fully as strongly as the lower.
33.
Basilichthys regillus Abbott.
New species.
Head 4, depth 5^, eye 5 in head, If in interorbital space, snout 2|.
D. VI-I, 10; A. I, 16.
14 rows of scales at level of ventrals, in a series from opercle to root of caudal, 11 rows on tail.
Body rather thick, rounded, low.
Head rather long in proportion to depth, flat or slightly convex above.
Teeth fine, in two to four rows, vomer without teeth.
Mouth moderate, the jaws almost even, the upper jaw slightly projecting; giU rakers fine — 7+24 (circ).
Scales sinuate, most of them with from 3 to 6 radiate strise as described by Jenyns and others.
(This character of striae does not appear to be of any taxonomic importance. )
Scales on top of head arranged irregularly in a sort of shield ; cheeks and opercles scaled, jaws and snout naked.
Origin of first dorsal nearer snout than base of caudal by one-third length of head, and inserted almost even with, or slightly in advance of vertical from tip of ventrals.
Second dorsal inserted above the seventh ray of anal.
Interdorsal space large, 5| in body length (measuring from first 1' Shore Fishes, Challenger Exp., 35, 1880.
'-Cat.
Fishes British Museum, iii, 404, 1861.
"x, 474 (1835).
340 [1899. spine of first dorsal to spine of second dorsal).
Ventrals short, 2| to 3 in head.
Pectorals 1^ in head, minutely dotted with color.
Lateral stripe obscure in outline, broad, covering -^ -\'^ ■{■ 2 scale rows, margined above with dark plumbeous, spreading to a large blotch on opercle, narrowing to H scale rows on caudal peduncle, and terminating in a round spot at root of caudal.
Color dusky above lateral stripe, pale below, scales above the stripe margined with dark dots.
Numerous narrow, dark branching lines running along middle of back from occiput to caudal.
Length 210 mm.
No.
6,071 in Leland Stanford, Jr. Univ.
Mus.
Six cotypes, No.
6,072, vary in length from 190 mm.
to 245 mm.
Head 4-4i.
D. VI or YII-I, 10; A. I, 15 or 16.
Some of the specimens have the scales smooth and closely adherent, others rough and loose, a condition due probably to rough handling in the markets.
34.
Basilichthys octavius Abbott.
New species.
Very close to B. regillus, differing in the number of dorsal spines, insertion of first dorsal, greater iuterdorsal space and lesser depth.
Head -ih, depth 6i, eye 5i, snout 3.
D. VIII-I, 9; A. I, 15.
Body slender, depth less in proportion to length than in regillus.
Cheeks scaled to point of maxillary, snout and preopercle smooth and bare.
No teeth on vomer or palatines.
15 scale rows at ventrals, 11 on tail, 86 in longitudinal series.
Gill rakers 7 + 24.
First dorsal almost exactly midway between root of caudal and tip of snout, inserted over middle of ventrals.
Interdorsal space 4 1 in body length."
Origin of second dorsal about even with eighth anal ray.
Pectoral If in head, ventrals 3.
Color as in '*The difference in iuterdorsal space in the two species, octavius and regillus.
is due to the more posterior locatiou of the first dorsal in tlie former, the position of the second dorsal being practically constant, as will he seen in tlie following table (the numbers represent hundredths of the total length) : i Octavius.
Regillus.
First dorsal to snout 44 62 15 46 61 14^ 47 61 15 47 61 15 47 63 15 47 46 Second dorsal to snout 62 Interdorsal spa<?e 19 61 61 15 1 15^ B regiUm aud other species.
Lateral stripe covering ^ + 2 + i scale rows, the silver being replaced anteriorly by dark plumbeous.
One specimen, 1.
255 mm.
No.
6.069 in the Leland Stanford, Jr. Univ.
Mus.
35.
Basilichthys jordani Abbott.
New species.
In the presence of vomerine teeth aud in the development of the lower jaw, this species approaches Chirosfoma.
But in its appearance aud the smallness of its scales it is a typical Basilichthys.
The striking diflerence in appearance between fishes of the genera Basilichthys and Chirostoma seems to lie not so much in the strengthening of the mandible in the latter, as in the more noticeable Aveakening of the upper jaw, so that the lower jaw projects aud forces the mouth into a strongly diagonal slant.
In Basilichthys the upper jaw is as strong as the lower and slightly projecting, and the mouth is almost horizontal.
Head 4^; depth 5^; eye 5 in head; 1^ in inierorbital, snout 2 J. D. VI-I, 10; A. I, 16.
Body rather thick, head (puidraugular.
Mouth moderate, the lower jaw stronger than in other related species, even with, or very slightly projecting beyond upper.
Teeth comparatively strong.
Vomerine teeth prominent, in a triangular patch, scattering at the sides.
Gill rakers 7 + 25.
Scales small, 14 series at ventrals, 10 on tail, 87 from opercle to root of caudal, some of them radially striate.
Pectoral If, ventral 3 in head.
First dorsal inserted nearer tip of snout than root of caudal by somewhat less than the diameter of the eye, its first spine vertically above tip of ventral.
Interdorsal space 5i in body length.
Second dorsal inserted above eighth anal ray.
Color as in other related species.
Medic-dorsal lines present but obscure.
Stripe covering ^ + 2 + |scale rows at middle of body.
Length 235 mm.
No.
6,070 in Leland Stanford, Jr. Univ.
Mus.
A cotype, No.
6,073, in the same collection has the head 4 in length and seven spines in the first dorsal.
Length 250 mm.
It gives me great pleasure to name this species for President David Starr Jordan, of Leland Stanford, Jr. University, to whose friendly interest and wealth of experience and knowledge the younger students of ichthyology in this country owe so much.
36.
Basilichtliys affinis (Steindachner).
Chirostoma affine Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 313, 1898 [Iquiqne].
This species ajDparently closely resembles the preceding.
It appears to differ from B. jovdanl in the absence of vomerine teeth, and from jordani, regillus and octavlus in the much shorter head and in the position of the first dorsal.
Steindachner also describes (1. c. 314) a species of the same genus, gracile, from Juan Fernandez which is distinct from those mentioned above, though closely related.
PISOIREGIA Abbott.
New genus.
Body and head pike-like.
Premaxillary not protractile, its skin continuous with that of the forehead.
First dorsal small, with few spines, situated posteriorly.
Teeth rather strong, the outer series in each jaw enlarged.
Vomer with teeth.
Mouth margined entirely by premaxillary, the maxillary lying behind.
Caudal peduncle thick.
The genus is related to Atherinojjs and Atherinopsis by the non-protraci ile premaxillary, differing from the former in having simple teeth and from the latter in the presence of vomerine teeth, in the enlargement of the outer series of the maxillary and in the small size of the first dorsal, 37.
Pisoiregia beardsleei Abbott.
New species.
Head 4^, depth 5^, eye Qh in head, 3 in iuterorbital, snout 24, preorbital 1^ in eye.
D. IV-I, 11 ; A. I, 15.
Scales small, 20 series at ventral, 14 on tail, 87 in longitudinal series.
Head broad, flat, angular, scaled above to posterior no.stril, cheeks, opercles and suborbital scaled.
Preorbital, snout and jaws smooth and naked.
Chin Avith a series of six pores on each side.
Teeth rather large, incurved, in three or four series, the outer enlarged in each jaw.
Vomer with half a dozen recurved teeth at apex.
Gill rakers 4 + 14, short and stout, 2 in eye.
Scales small, entire or sinuate, with radiate strise.
First dorsal short and low, of 4 weak spines, the height of the longest one-third of base of second dorsal, the fin inserted slightly in front of the vertical from vent.
Second dorsal strong, its longest ray about equal to its base, inserted above sixth ray of anal.
Anal high, its second ray equal to its base, If in head and equalling the pectoral; ventral 2i in head.
Caudal peduncle stout, its depth 2^ in head.
Interdorsal space short, 2^ in head.
Caudal oblong, forked and but slightly spreading.
Coloration resembling the various species of Basiliehthys.
Lateral stripe broad, covering: ^ + o ■}h scale rows.
Body pale below, the scales above margined with dark dots; a blotch on opercle.
Lines on middle of back not evident.
Dorsals and caudal dark, other fins pale, with very few, if any, dots of color.
One specimen, 1.
290 mm.
No, 11,961 in the INIuseum of Leland Stanford, Jr. University.
MUGILIDJE.
38.
Mugil cephalus Linnrcus.
Miigil ccphalus L., Syst.
Natura, Ed.
x, 316, 1758; Steiudachuer, Fauna CMlensis, 315.. 1898 [Juan Fernandez].
Mugil rammelsbergii Tscliudi, Fauna Peruana, Ichth., 20, 1845 [Peruvian coast] ; Garman, Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 203, 1876.
3Iugil liza Gay, Hist.
Chile ZooL, ii, 256, lam 4b, fig.
2.
Local name, Liza.
After making careful comparisons between six specimens of this species from Callao and others from Italy, Texas, Florida and Mazatlan, Mexico, we are forced to corroborate the conclusion given by Jordan and Evermann (Fishes of N. A., i, 811) that all belong to one and the same species.
Range.
— Europe, West Atlantic, East Pacific.
A valuable and abundant food fish.
Five specimens, 180 mm.
to 200 mm.
One younger, 140 mm.
Following is Tschudi's original description of M. rammclsbergii : " D, IV-I, 8.
A. II, 8.
C. 16.
Y. I, 5.
P. 16. '
' Verhaltniss der Hohe zur Liinge 1 : 5, des Kopfes zum Korper 1:3, 6.
Grosste Breite des Kopfes gleich seiner Hohe.
Auge rund, ein Viertheil seines Durchmessers vom Stirnrande, zwei Drittel desselben vom Unterkieferraude, seinen Durchmesser von der Bchnauzenspitze und dreimal denselben vom Vordeckelrande entfernt. "
Das Maul ist klein, nicht ganz bis unter die Knochen gespalten, dreieckig.
Die Zahne sehr zahlreich, aber feiu.
Nasenlocher nahe am Canthus rostralis.
Der Deckelrand ist nach oben etwas ausgeschnitten und liiuft nach hinten in einen runden Fortsatz aus.
Der Vordeckelrand ist einfach, ganz abgerundet. "
Die Beschuppung des ganzeu Korj)ers ist sehr regelmiissig, auf dem Scheitel und dem Deckel etwas grosser, " Die erste Riickenflosse steht etwas vor der Mitte des Riickeus, der Iste uud 2te Stachel sind die laugsteu und gleich lang; der 4te der kiirzeste, steht vom oten ziemlich weit ab.
Hire gauze Liinge von ihr entfernt steht die 2te Kiickenflosse, deren Anfaug und Ende dem der Afterflosse gegeuiiber fiillt; sie ist etwas ausgeschnitten, iudem der letze Stralil etwas holier ist als die drei vorhergehendeu • der Stachel is diinn und schwach.
Schwanzflosse stark ausgeschnitten.
Die beideu Stacheln der Afterflosse siud schwach ; sie stimmt in Form uud Liinge ganz mit der zweiten Riickenflosse (iberein. '
' Die Bauchflosse beginut beinahe am Ende der Brustflosse ; der Stachel ist halb so loug als der erste Flossenstrahl.
Die Brustflosse ist hoch obeu augeheftet, der obereu Hiilfte des Auges gegeuiiber; sie iiberragt uur eiu wenig deu Anfaug der Bauchflosse. "
Fdrbimg.
— Auf dem Riickeu griiulich gelb ; silberweiss am Bauche. "
Liinge 10"-12". "
Vorkovimen.
— In den INIouateu ^Nlai uud October selir hiiufig um die Insel San Lorenzo ; in der iibrigeu Zeit scheiuen sich diese Fisclie mehr auf das liolie Meer zuriickzuzielieu."
POLYNEMID^.
39.
Polydactylus approximans (Lay and Benuet).
Pidyncmus approximans Lay and Bennet, Beecbey's Vovage, Zool.
Fish, 57, 1849 [Mazatlan].
Polydactylus ap2n'oximans Jordan and Evermann, Fishes of N. A., i, 829, 1897.
Local name, Barbuda.
One specimen, 1.
250 mm.
A common food fish of the western coast of Central America, hitherto recorded no farther south than Panama; north to Lower California (Thomiuot, Bull.
Soc.
Phi!., 1886).
SCOMBRID^.
40.
Scomber colias Gmelin.
Scomber colias Gmelin, Syst.
Nat., p. 1329, 1788 [Sardinia] ; Steindachner, Ichthy.
Notizen, vii, 25, 1868 [Chile] ; Dresslar aiid Fesler, Eev.
of Scombridfe, Bull.
U. S. F. C, vii, 432, plate ii, 1889 ; T. Kitahara, Scoml)rid?e of Japan, photo-plate iv, Jour.
Fisheries Bureau, vi-i of Tokyo, 1897.
Local name, Cabinsa, Caballa.
Seven specimens, 1.
220-250 mm.
D. IX-12-V (one specimen, VIII-12-V); A. I-I, (1-1,11V)Ranrje.
— West coast of North and South America, Japan, soutlieru Europe.
Occasioual in West Atlantic.
41.
Sarda chilensis (Cuvier and Valenciennes).
RIamys cMlensis Cuv.
and Val., Hist.
Nat.
Pois., viii, 163, lS3l [Valparaiso] ; Steindachner, Iclitby.
Notizen, vii, 25, 186S [Chile] ; Kitahara, Jour.
Fish.
Bureau, Tokyo, vi, i, 3, pi.
iv, lig.
10.
Sarda ehilensis Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. N. M., iii, 27, 1880.
Local name, Chanchilla, Bonito.
Two adult specimens, one young.
Head 3^, depth 4f-5.
D. XVII(XVIII)-I,13-VII(VIII).
A. II,11-VI (VII).
Length 220, 400, 430 mm.
The large specimens appear to be typical, though the color markings are somewhat obscure.
We are inclined to recognize the specific identity of *S'.
orientalis^^ as distinct from S. ehilensis, notwithstanding the fact that Jordan and Evermann, following Dresslar and Fesler (^M^/.
U. S. F. C, vii, 1887, 441) place both in the synonymy of Saixla ehilensis.
In the specimens in hand the eye is 8 in head as against 9i in orientalis (same length fish), and the posterior end of the maxillary, instead of being irregular in outline and concave on its upper border as in S. orientalis and S. sarda, is regular and almost round.
The single juvenile specimen shows the same peculiarities in color markings as have been noted in the young of S. sarda, by Steindachner {lehthy.
Berichte, v, 8, 1868).
There are no traces of longitudinal striping, but the sides are barred two-thirds of the way from pectoral to tail with ten or eleven dusky vertical stripes.
The posterior end of the maxillary is also weakly, but evidently serrate.
The discrepancies in color markings to be noticed in the published figures of both *S'.
sarda and S. ehilensis are doubtless due to the fact that the specimens drawn have been in all stages of transition between the juvenile barred type and the adult form with narrow longitudinal stripes.
ISTIOPHORID^.
42.
Istiophorus audax (Pbilippi).
Uistiophorus audax Philippi, Sohre los Tiburones, etc., de Chile, 35, 1887.
Local name, Pez-arjiija, described by Philippi from specimens from Iquique.
'^ Temminck and Schlegel, Fauna Japouiea, 52.
XIPHIID^.
43.
Xiphius gladius Linnceus.
Xijyhlns gladius (?
), Philippi, 1. c, 33, 1887.
Philip^:)!
describes specimens from Iquique and Talcahuauo.
CARANGIDiE.
44.
Trachurus picturatus (Bowdich).
Seriola picturata Bowdich, Excursion to Madeira, 123, fig.
27, 1825.
Caranx tracliuriis (2me subdiv.)
Cuvier and Valenciennes, iii, 17, 1833 [Valparaiso].
Trachurus mvieri (Lowe) Llltken, Spolia Atlantica, 126, 1880 [Chile].
Caranx euxieri Steindachner, Ich.
Beitrage, ii, 16 [Talcahuano, Callao, Juan Fernandez, Galapagos].
Local name, Furrel.
One specimen.
D. YIII-I, 32.
A. II-I, 28.
Length 325 mm.
Range.
— San Francisco to Valparaiso, Azores, INIediterranean, New Zealand, Atlantic.
45.
Caranx peruanus Tsehudi.
Caranx x>eruaniis Tsehudi, Fauna Peruana, Ichth., 19, 1845.
The validity of this species is questionable.
Following is Tsehudi' s original description: " D. IX-I, 28.
A. II, 28.
V. I, 10.
P. 20. "
A^erhiiltniss der Hohe zur Liinge 1:6, 5, des Kopfes zum Korper 1:3.
Auge gross, breiter als hoch nahe am Stirnprofil, 1, 3 seines Liingedurchmessers vom Unterkiefer ; zweimal seiner Querdurchmesser von der Schnauzenspitze, 2, 8 mal vom Voi'deckelrande. "
Nasenlocher fast in der Mitte zwischeu der Schnauzenspitze und dem vorderen Rande des Auges, letzerem doch etwas niiher.
IMaul nicht ganz bis unter das Auge gespalten.
Die Ziihne in beiden Kiefern sehr klein, fein, hechelformig.
Ueber die Mitte der Zunge eine dicht besetzte Zahnleiste, die etwas weniger grossen Gaumenziihne bilden ein H. Der Unterkiefer ist ziemlich vorspringend.
Die beiden Kieferiiste sind einfach, der Winkel abgerundet.
Der Vordeckel ist in seinem oberen Drittel stark ausgeschnitten und hat zwei dorniihnliche Fortsiitze, die durch eine Membran mit einander verbunden sind.
Die Schuppen des Korpers sind klein.
Die Seitenlinie macht den letzteu Riickenflossenstrahlen gegeniiber eine starke Biegung nach unten und setzt sicli fort, indem der spitzige Fortsatz jeder Schuppe, durch die sie geht, mehr coraprimirt, also holier ist uiid die einzelnen Schuppen dichter auliegeii. "
Der nach voru gerichtete erste Stachel der Riickeuflosse ist kurz, aber stark ; vou den aiifrechtstehendeu sind der 3te uud 4te die Uingsten, Die Riickenflosse nimmt nach hinteu betrachtlieh aa H5he imd Starke der Strahlen ab.
Ihr Ende, so wie das der Afterflosse, wird durch eine aus 5-6 Stacheln zusammengesetzte, pinselformige Flosse gebildet.
Die Riickenflosse reicht voa der Mitte der Bauchflosse bis zum Ende der Afterflosse ; diese letztere beginut der Mitte der Bauchflosse gegeniiber bis zum Ende der Afterflosse ; diese beginnt dem Ende des ersten Viertels der Aveicheu Riickenflosse gegeniiber; ihre beiden Stacheln sind stark, aber kurz; der hiutere stark nach hinten gebogen.
Die Brustflosse beginut etwas vor der Bauchflosse und reicht bis zum ersten Riickenflossenstrahl.
Die Bauchflosse reicht bis zur Halfte der Brustflosse.
" Far bung.
— Der gauze Fisch ist blaugrau, am Riicken wenig dunkler und am Bauche kaum merklich heller. '
' Liiuge 2' 6". "
Vorkommeti.
— Ziemhch gemein an der ganzeu peruanischeu Kiiste. '
' 46.
Vomer gabonensis Guichenot.
Argyreiosus setipinnis var.
A., Gunther, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., ii, 459, 1860.
Vomer gubo/witsis Guicheuot, Ann.
Soc Linn.
Maine et Loire, 43, 1865.
This doubtful species was described as a variety by Giinther from thirteen specimens, two of which Avere in the Haslar collection from Peru, and the rest from Brazil and the West Indies.
Guichenot's specimens came from the Gaboon, W. Africa.
47.
Seriola peruana Steindachner.
So'iola peruana SteinAachuer, Icli.
Beitrage, xi, 13, 1831 [Callao].
OENTROLOPHID^.
48.
Centrolophus peruanus Steindachner.
Centrolophus peruanus Steindachner, Ichthy.
Beitrao;e, i, p. 10, (Sitzb.
d. Ak.
Wiss.
Wien, L\ix, 384, 1874), [Callao] ; ibid., Fauna Chilensis, 299, 1898 [Iquiqneh Callao to Iquique.
SERRANID^.
49.
Acanthistius pictus (Tschudi).
Plectropoma pictum Tschudi.
Fauna Peruana, .5, 1844 [Peru] ; Kner, Neue Fische aus Museum Godeft'roy, 2 (Sitzb.
Ak.
"Wieu.
Ivi, i, 1867, 710) [Iquique].
Alphcstes pictus Jordan and Swain, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mu3., 1834, 395.
Acanthistius inctus Boulenger, Fishes of Brit.
Masenni, i, 140, 1895 [Chile] ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilen.sis, 282, 1898 [Iquique].
A Chilean species, rare aloug the Peruviau coast.
50.
Mycteroperca xenarcha Jordan.
Mycteropercct xenarclia Jordan, Proc.
Acad.
Phil., 1837.
337 [Galapagos islands] .
EpinepJielus xenarchus Boulenger, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., i, 2G6, 1895.
Galapagos island, to Payta, Peru.
51.
Paralabrax humeralis (CavierandValeucienues).
Serranus humeralis Cuv.
and Val., Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., ii, 246, 1828 [Chile] ; Gav.
Hist.
Chile, Zool., ii, 149, 1847 ; Kner.
Neue Fische aus Mus.
Godef., 4, (Sitzb.
Ak.
Wiss.
Iviii, i, 1863) [Peru]: Boulenger, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., i, 278, 1895.
Serranus semifasciatus Gay, Hist.
Chile Zool., ii, 151 (plate I bis.
fig.
2), 1847 [Juan Fernandez] (copied by Jordan and Eigenmanu, 390, vide infra) .
Pcrcichthys godeffroyi Gunther, Jour.
Mus.
Godeffr., i, H. 2, 97, 1873 [Iquique].
Paralabrax humeralis Jordan and Eigenmann, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., viii, 389, 1890.
Local name, Cahrilla.
The collection contains four specimens of this species.
There is evidently some variation in coloration between representatives from different localities, though there is no reason for confounding humeralis with the very distinct though closely allied form P. albomaculatus from the Galapagos Island.
^^ Compared with specimens from the type locality, aside from the very striking and constant difference in color markings, alhomaculatm differs from the present species in having a consideral)ly narrower interorbital width, narrower pectoral, smaller eye, and lunate (sometimes almost truncate) instead of forked caudal.
The specimens described by Kner {I. c. ) from Peru, as Serranus humeralis (var.
?)
doubtless belong to an unnamed sisecies.
Head 2h, depth 4|-, eye of .
Gill rakers 10 + 21.
Lateral line (pores) 62-67.
Color somewhat obscured by alcohol, very dark above; broad bands along sides.
Opercle dark with lighter spots.
Ventrals and middle rays of caudal dai'k.
Soft dorsal mottled.
'6 Boulenger, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., i, 278.
The conditiou of the reproductive orwaus indicates the time of capture (January) to have been the height of the breeding season.
Length 180-220 mm.
52.
Diplectruni conceptione (Cuvier and Valenciennes).
Strraims cvitfeptlonis Cuv.
andVal., Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., ii, 246, 1828 [Conception de Chile] ; Bouleuger, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., 1, 296, 1895.
Centropristis conceptionis Giinther, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., i, 84.
1859.
Diplectrum concepiioiw Jordan and Eigenmann, Bull.
U. S. F. C, viii, 1890 (1888), 399.
Local name, Mojarrilla.
Five specimens, length 180-200.
Depth 3|-4, head 2|-3, eye 4f in head, interorbital |-^ in eye.
D. X, 12.
A.
Ill, 7.
Lateral line (pores) 53 circ.
Body outline low.
Profile almost straight from anterior edge of orbit to beginning of dorsal.
Snout broad but sharp.
Mouth rather large, maxillary reaching to posterior edge of pupil, its distal end about ^ of eye in Avidth, its dorsal edge with a longitudinal groove and ridge, somewhat imitating the accessory maxillary bone of the Epinephelinse.
Canines weakly developed.
Cheeks and opercles covered with strongly ctenoid scales.
Snout, jaws and interorbital space as far as occiput, including ring about the eye, naked.
Opercle with a stoutish spine.
Angle of preopercle with three or four stout plectroid spines — above and below are two or three weaker and gradually shorter spines merging above into the fine dentieulations of the vertical edge of preopercle.
Lower edge entire.
Gill rakers slender, 8-1-14.
Lateral line concurrent with back, about 6 or 7 scale rows between it and dorsal.
Dorsal spines rather Aveak, the fourth and fifth the longest, subequal, 3 in head.
Tenth spine about two-thirds of first ray.
Origin of dorsal on the vertical with that of pectoral.
Ventrals very slightly in advance of latter.
Pectorals If.
Ventrals 2 in head.
Caudal lunate, the upper lobe the longer.
Anal spines rather weak, the third the longest, 4^ in head.
Head dark reddish brown, a black blotch on opercle.
Inner surface of opercle black.
Side of body with seven or eight bars of rose to level of pectoral, dirty yellow below.
Soft dorsal mottled.
Ventrals and margin of caudal dark.
A few spots on caudal.
Range.
— Coasts of Chile and Peru.
53.
Pronotogrammus peruanus (Steindachner).
Ani/na.<t {Ilcmianthias) peruanus Steiiidachner, Iclithy.
Beitriige,i, 4, (Sitzb.
Ak.
Wiss.
Ixix, i, 1874) [Payta].
Pronotoqrammus peruanus Jordan and Eigenmann, Review of Serranidte, Bull.
U. S. F. C, viii, 413, 1890 [Chile].
Range.
— Coasts of Chile and Peru.
54.
Serranus peruanus Lesson.
Serra/ius peruanus Lesson, Voyage de la Coquille, tome ii, part i, 234 1828 [Payta] ; Jordan and Eigenmann, EeA'iew of Serranidfe, Bull.
U. S. F. C, viii, 408, 1888.
Payta, Peru.
55.
Hemilutjanus macrophthalmos (Tschudi).
Plectropoma macrophthalmos T.schudi, Fauna Peruana, Iclitli., 6, 1845 [Callao] ; Kner, Neue Fische aus Mus.
Godeffro7, 3, plate I, (Sitzb.
Ak.
Wiss.
i, Ivi, 1867) [Iquique.]
Hemilutjanus macrophthahnos Jordan and Eigenmann.
Review of Serranidfe, Bull.
Fish Comm., viii, 345, 1890.
Pomoclon macrophthalmtis Boulenger, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., 1, 144, 1895 ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 281, 1898 [Iquique].'
Range.
— Coasts of Chile and Peru.
HiEMUIilDuE.
56.
Anisotremus scapularis (Tschudi).
Pristopoma sceipulare Tschudi, Fauna Peruana, 12, 1844 [Huacho].
Diagramma melanospilum Kner, Neue Fische Mus.
Godef., p. 4 ; (Sitz.
d. Ak.
Wiss., Ivi, 1867).
Pristipoma notatum Feters, Berl.
Monatsb., 106, 1869 [Mazatlan].
Pomadasys modestus Jordan, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 286, 1883.
Anisotremus scapularis Jordan and Fesler, Kep.
U. S. F. C (Rep. '89-'9L), 485, 1893 ; Jordan and Evermann, Fishes of North and Middle Amer., ii, 1320, 1898.
There are two specimens of this well marked species iu the Callao collection, length 240 mm.
and 285 mm.
57.
Pomadasys bipunctatus (Steindachner).
Pomadasys bipunctatus Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 286 [Iquique].
West coast of South America.
58.
Isacia conceptionis (Cuvier and Valenciennes).
Pristipoma conceptionis Cuv.
and Val., Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., v, 268, 1830 [Conception de Chile].
Isacia conceptionis Jordan and Fesler, Rep. U. S. F. C, '83-'91, 1893, 501 [Mexillones, Peru].
Local name, Cabinsa.
Two specimens, length 250 mm.
and 215 mm.
This species, the type of the genus Isacia, is separated from Bleeker's genus Parapridipoma by the long anal and absence of its scaly sheath.
The value of the first character is questionable, as the species of Parapristipoina show a regular gradation in number of anal rays up to the number in the present species, and the character of the scaly sheath is apt to be misunderstood, as there is present in I. conceptionis (at least in the specimens at hand) a slight development of scales at the base of the anal, two or three scale-rows deep and at its widest part about one-ninth the length of the longest ray.
On the other hand, the sheath in Parapristipoina trilineatum, the type of that genus, is, according to Bleeker's figure,^' about two-fifths of the length of the first ray, and composed of 7 or 8 scale rows at the Avidest part.
The preopercular spines of /.
coiiceptmiis are weak and partly hidden by the skin and there appears to be no special development of them at the angle.
The spines of Parapristipoina are rather strong, especially at the angle.
Head 3|-, D. 3f (4), pores in lat.
line 54-56, eye 4^, snout 2f (3f).
D. XIII-14; A.
Ill, 13 (12).
Range.
— West coast of South America.
Gay gives Cabinza as the common name in Chile for Mendosoma ccerulescens.
59.
Orthopristis cantharinus (Jenyns).
Pristipomn cantliarinum Jenyns, Voy.
Beagle, Fish, 49, 1842 [Galapagos isl.].
Hmmulon inodestum Tschudi, Fauna Peruana, 11, 1845 [Peru].
Ortliojiristis (antlutriaus Jordan and Fesler, Eep.
U. S. F. C, 188991, p. 500 (1893).
Rmuje.
— Pacific coast of tropical America.
A rare species along the Peruvian coast, according to Tschudi.
SPARIDiE.
60.
Doydixodon freminvillei Valenciennes.
Doydlxodon fremiavillei Valenciennes, Voyage de la Venus, 323, pi.
5, 1855 [Galapagos].
Doi/dirodon fa-sciatum Kner und Steindachner, Neue Fische aus Mus.
Godeffroy, 3 (Sitz.
Ak.
Wien, liv, 358, 1866), pi.
ii, fig.
2 [Iquique].
Range.
— Tropical South America.
61.
Doydixodon laevifrons (Tschudi).
FimcU'pterus kerifrons Tscliudi, Fauna Peruana, 18, 1845 [Huacho].
Doydixodon Icecifrons Jordan and Fesler, Review of .Sparida-, Eep.
U. S. F. C. ('89-'91),532, 1893; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensig, ii, 289, 1898 [Iquique].
"Arch.
Neerl., viii, 1872.
Range.
— Peruviau coast.
Tschudi's origiual descriptiou is copied Jjy Jordan and Fesler {J. c. ).
62.
Archoscion analis (Jenyns).
OtoUthus analis Jenyns, Zool.
Beagle Fishes, 164, 1842 [Callao].
Local name, Allanque.
It is the conviction of the writer that no hard and fast lines can be drawn between the genera Archoscion, Isopicthus and Cynoscion and that their species should come under one generic head, for which the name Cynoscion has priority.
But iu the absence of material for a comparative study of the groups, we are forced to follow precedent in placing this and the two following species under Archoscion.
Three examples, length 330 mm.
to 350 mm.
Head of, depth 4|; D. ix-i,24 (23); A. i,15 (14).
Eye 6^; interorbital broad, 4 in head; snout 3f.
Body elongate, compressed, back but little elevated.
Snout long, lower jaw projecting.
Head long, profile straightish, very slightly convex above eyes.
Maxillary^ extending to posterior border of pupil, 2^ in head, its broad distal end about one-half the length of the snout in width.
Preorbital narrow, 2f in eye.
Upper anterior canines stout, conical, slightly incurved.
The 5 to 7 lateral teeth of the lower jaw enlarged, scattei-ed, about one-third the length of the upper canines.
Anterior teeth of lower jaw in two rows, rather small and crowded.
Preopercle with a crenulate membranaceous border.
Soft flap of opercle extending to or past origin of pectoral.
Opercular spines absent.
Gill rakers long, slender, 7 + 9.
First dorsal spine very weak, third the longest, 2:^ in head.
luterdorsal space equal to eye.
Origin of second dorsal nearer to caudal than to snout.
Pectoral narrow, If in head.
Ventrals shorter, about 2 in head.
Caudal shall owly lunate.
Scales moderate, 63 pores in lateral line, about 75 transverse rows from opercle to caudal.
Lateral lines somewhat decurved under origin of soft dorsal.
Head everywhere scaled, except on premaxillary.
Color, dark umber above, lighter on sides, yellowish Avliite below.
Sides below lateral line with a great number of small orange spots arranged longitudinally.
Posterior margins of scales peppered with dark dots.
Upper half of pectoral dark.
Ventrals pale.
Axil dark.
Habitat.
— Peru.
63.
Archoscion altipinnis (Steindachner).
Ancylodon altipinnis Steindachner, Ichthy.
Notizen, iii, 2, plate 1, fig.
2, 18G6 [" West Coast of South America"].
ArcJioscion analis Jordan and Eigenmann, Rep. U. S. F. C, '86, 353, 1889 [Callao].
Although there are no specimens of this species in the Beardslee collection, yet a careful comparison of Steindachner' s description and plate, with examples of C. analis, indicate conclusively that it is distinct from Jenyn's species.
In analis the interdorsal space is large, as long as eye, and the two dorsals are not connected.
In altipinnis the two fins are connected by a low membrane and are presumably close together (distance equal to pupil, Jor.
and Eig.
).
The eye is somewhat smaller in analis, being 6 in head to 5 in altipinnis; the snout is longer, 3^ in head to 4^ in altipinnis, and the depth in the former rather less, 4| in body; while Steindachner gives 4^.
The most important difference seems to lie in the lack of developed opercular spines in analis, while the other species has two quite strong spines.
Habitat.
— Peru, perhaps extending southward.
64.
Archoscion peruanus (Tschudi).
OtoUthus per nanus Tschudi, Fauna Peruana, Ichthy., 10, 1845.
This species, which is very closely related to C. analis, is known only from the original description.
It appears to differ from analis in having the second dorsal equidistant from snout and caudal and hardly separated from the first dorsal, while in analis the two fins are widely separated and the second is considerably nearer caudal than snout.
The ventrals are longer in peruanus, reaching past pectorals, while in the former species the pectorals are considerably longer.
Following is Tschudi' s original description: " D. 8-22.
A.
15.
V. 5.
P. 18. '
' Verhliltuiss der Hohe zur Lange 1:4, 8, des Kopf es zum Korper 1:2, 5.
Auge breiter als hoch, steht 1, 6 seines Querdurchmessers von der Schnauzeuspitze und viermal seiuen Querdurchmesser vom obern Dorn des Vordeckels, einhalbmal 23 seinea Liiugedurchmesser von der Stirnkaute imd 1, 5 vom Unterkieferrande.
Das Maul ist bis imter die Mitte des Auges gespalten.
Die erste Reihe der Oberkieferziihne ist diiun uud spitzig, hinter denselben iji der Mitte steheu die beiden laugen, nach hinteu gebogeuen sehr scharfen Eckziihue, zu jeder Seite voa ihnen befinden sich einige ebeufalls riickwiirts gebogeue schwiichere Zahne.
Die mittleren Zahne des Uuterkiefers sind klein, spitzig, schwach und ziemlich zahlreich : die seitlieheu stark, ziemlich lang, sparlich und von aussen nach innen etwas comprimirt. "
Die Nasenlocher stehen naher deni Auge als der Schnauzenspitze, das hintere ist grosser, schief, und schmal.
Auf dem Deckelwinkel stehen membranose Zahnchen, der Vordeckel ist einfach mit abgerundetem Winkel. "
Die erste Riickenflosse beginnt etwas hinter den Brustflossen und reicht so weit als diese; zusammengelegt reicht der 2te Flossenstachel bis zu Ende der ganzen Flosse.
Der Iste ist ein Viertheil kiirzer als der 2te, vora 4ten nehmen sie schnell an Grosse ab.
Die zweite Kiickenflosse beginnt in der Mitte der Riickenliinge und erstreckt sich bis zum Eude der Afterflosse.
In der vorderu Hlilf te ist sie beinahe halbmal holier, als in der hintern.
Die Afterflosse beginnt hinter der Mitte der zweiten Riickenflosse und ist ziemlich hoch.
Die Bauchflosse beginnt weuig weiter nach hinten als die Brustflossen und reicht weiter als diese. "
Fdrbung.
— Blaugrau, am Bauche heller, fast gelblich weiss. "
Ljinge V S". "
Vorkommen.
— An der ganzen peruanischen Kiiste.
65.
Cynoscion stoltzmanni (Steindachner).
Otolithus stoltzmanni Steindachner, Neue u. seltene Fische, K. K. Zool.
Mus.
Wien., Denkschrift Ak.
Wien, xli, 35, pi.
ii, fig.
1, 1879 [Tumbez, Peru].
Cynoscion stoltzmanni Jordan and Gilbert, Ball.
U. S. F. C, 1881, 320 ; Jordan and Evermann, Fishes of N. A., 1412, 1898.
Range.
— Panama to Peru.
66.
Stellifer minor (Tschudi).
Corvina lyiinor Tschudi, Fauna Peruana, Ichth., 9, 1845.
Scimna minor Giinther, Cat.
Brit.
IMas.
, ii, 295, 1860. titelliferus minor Jordan and Eigenmann, Review of Sci;enid*, 51, Rep. U. S. F. C, '86, 393, 1889.
Local name, Mojarrilla.
Seven specimens, average length 165 mm.
Evidently a common species at Callao, but confined to that region.
67.
Stellifer agassizii (Steindachner).
Gorvina {Homoprion) agassizii Steindacliner, Ichtby.
Beitriige, ii, 26 (Sitz.
d. Ak.
Wiss.
Wien, Ixxi, 1875) [Caldera.
Callao, Payta].
Corvina agassizii Cope, Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc, May, 1877, 26 [Pecasmayu and Chiinbote bays].
Range.
— Coast of Peru.
68.
Sciaena gilberti Abbott.
New .species.
lu the Review of the Scireuidffi, Rep. U. S. F. C, 1889, p. 59, Jordau and Eigenmaun place the Peruvian species S. deliciosa by itself under a subgenus Callaus.
The present species is very closely related to deliciosa, and comes under the same subgeneric head.
In contrast to other related genera and species, S. gilberti and *S'.
deliciosa agree in having short and moderate second anal spine, moderately long and numerous gill rakers, and weak preopercular armature.
They appear to be most nearly allied to the putative genus Bola of Hamilton, differing in not having the upper teeth greatly enlarged.
Regarding the two forms as species of the genus Sckena, they stand as a connecting link between those genera with long and slender gill rakers and those with gill rakers short and thick, in that respect approximating Bairdiella on the one hand, and Scicenops on the other.
S. gilberti differs from the other Peruvian species S. wieneri in lacking a strongly toothed preoperele and in having a shorter maxillary, larger head and much larger eye.
Description.— Head 3i, depth U. D. IX-I, 22 (3).
A. II, 9.
Eye 5, interorbital 3f, preorbital 9 in head, 14 in eye, maxillary 2^.
Lateral line (pores) 55.
Body elongate, elliptical, back not very elevated, profile almost straight, rather low.
Snout sharp, 3f in head.
Mouth somewhat oblique, the maxillary extending beyond pupil.
Second nasal slit rather short, 3i in eye.
Preopercular serrre weak, flexible, flattened, yet still of a bony nature.
No spinous development at lower angle.
Lower jaw scaled.
Teeth small, in two or three rows, outer row very slightly enlarged in lower jaw, somewhat more so in upper jaw.
Mucous slits present but not especially prominent.
Gill rakers 8 + 15, equal to, or slightly exceeding the pupil, about 3i in the second anal spine.
Lateral line following the curve of the back, dipping somewhat under soft dorsal, sometimes sending up a branch at right angles, at base of caudal, which may be continued along the upper margin of the fin.
Ventrals almost twice in head reaching about halfway to the vent.
Pectorals moderate, about 1^ in head.
Second anal spine about one-half length of longest ray, 2f in head.
Caudal subtruncate, the outer rays somewhat the longer.
Scales above lateral line very oblique, those below in longitudinal series, each scale with a central streak forming narrow parallel stripes.
Ground color olivaceous above, darker on head.
Silvery below, tinged with rufous.
Axil of pectoral dark.
Lips thickly speckled with small brown spots.
Type, No.
11,918, Leland Stanford, Jr. Univ.
Mus., length 240 ram.
This with S. deliciosa is a very important food fish on the Peruvian coast.
It gives me much pleasure to name the species for my friend and instructor, Dr. Charles H.
Gilbert., to whom my interest in ichthyology is wholly due.
69.
Sciaena wieneri Sauvage.
Scisena wieneri Sauvage, Bulletin de la Societe Philomathique, July 7, 1883, 156 [Peru].
Kuown, we believe, only from the original description.
70.
Sciaena deliciosa (Tschudi).
Conina deliciosa Tschudi, Fauna Peruaua, 8, 1845.
Scimia deliciosa Jordan and Eigenmann, Review of Scisenidse (Rep. U. S. F. C, '86), 1889, 401, 406.
Local name, Lorna.
One large specimen.
Head 3, depth 3f , snout 3f, eye equal to preorbital, 6^.
D. X-I, 22.
A. II, 9.
Scales 55.
Length 325 mm.
Compared with *S'.
gilherti, deliciosa has a much broader interorbital, longer and blunter snout, and hence not quite so steep a profile, longer pectoral and shorter gill rakers.
In gilberli the nostrils are nearer eye than end of snout; in deliciosa th.Qy are midway.
71.
Sciaena fasciata (Tschudi).
Cheilotrema fasciatum Tschudi, Fauna Peruana, Ichth., 13, pi.
1, 1845 [Huacho to Callao].
Conina fasciata Giinther, Cat.
Brit.
Mus.
ii, 305, 1860 ; Steindachner, Ichth.
Notizen, vii, 21, 1868 [Chile].
Scicena fasciata Jordan and Eigenmann, Review of Sciffinida?, Rep. U. S. F. C. '86, 403, 407, 1889.
Range.
— Pacific coast of South America.
72.
Genyanemus peruanus Steindachner.
Genyanemns peruanus Steindachner, Ichth.
Beitrage, ii, 29 (Sitz.
d. k. Ak.
Wiss.
Wieu, 1875).
This species is very plentiful at Payta, rarer at Callao, where it lives on the sandy bottoms.
73.
Tlmbrina imberbis G anther.
Beitrage aus dem Musenm Godeffroy ; Jour, des Mus.
Godeffroy, H. ii, 101, 1874.
Following is the original description of this species.
We believe it is not otherwise known: " Dorsal X-I, 24.
Anal II, 9, L. lat.
Qb. "
Der Bartfaden am Kinn ist auf ein kleines Knotcheu zwischen den zwei Paaren von Mandibular-Poren reducirt.
Die Hohe des Korpers ist ein Drittel der Totalliinge (ohne Schwanzflosse), die Kopflange zwei Siebentel.
Die Schnautze stumpf, abgerundet, iiber die Mundspalte gewolbt, langer als das Auge, dessen Durchmesser ^ der Kopflange betriigt.
Der Oberkiefer reicht bis unter die Mitte des Auges, Praoperculum schwach gezahnelt.
Dorsal Stacheln schwach aber nicht alle biegsam, der dritte der liingste.
Der zweite Analstachel ziemlich stark und etwas mehr als halb so lang als der erste Strahl.
Schwanzflosse leicht ausgeschnitten.
Brustflosse nicht viel kiirzer als der Kopf.
Einfiirbig silberig; die Basis der Brustflosse schwarzlich. "
Ein Exemplar von Iquique (Chili) 13 Zoll lang."
CIRRHITID^.
74.
Cheilodactylus variegatus Cuvier and Valenciennes.
Cheilodactyhis raricgatus Cuv.
and Val., Nat.
Poiss., ix, 493, 1833 [Valparaiso] ; Gay, Hist.
Chile Zool., ii, 199, 1848.
Cheilodactylus tschudi Muller and Troschel, Hor.
Ichth., iii, 25.
Clieilodactylus cinctus T?cbudi, Fauna Peruana, Ich., 15, taf.
2, 1845.
Chilodactyh/s variegatus Giinther, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., ii, 81, 1862; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, ii, 290 [Iquique], 1898.
Local name, Pintadilla.
Three large specimens.
One juvenile.
Length 395 mm.
and 97 mm.
The fin counts differ from those given by Valenciennes, but the specimens agree in color markings and in other respects with his rather genei'al description.
Direct comparison with the type may disclose other differences.
D. XVII, 28.
A.
Ill, 10.
Head 3i, depth 3, eye 5| in head.
Lateral hne 56.
Pectoral 41in body.
Anal 6.
Premaxillary spines reaching eye.
The juvenile specimen is much darker than the others, almost black.
Valparaiso to Callao.
POMACENTRID^.
75.
Chromis crusma (Cuvier and Valenciennes).
Eeliases crusma Cav, and Val., Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., ix, 377, 1833 [Chile]; Jenyns, Zool.
Beagle, 54, 1840; Gay, Hist.
Chile Zool., ii, 206, lam.
4, 1848.
Heliasies crusma Giinther, Fishes Brit.
Mus., iv, 61, 1862 ; Steindachner.
Fauna Chilensis, ii, 317, 1898 [Iquique].
Local name, Coiigito or Conquito.
Four specimens, length 260-280 mm.
76.
Eupomacentrus latifrons (Tschudi).
Pomaccntrus latifrons Tschudi, Fauna Peruana, Icli., 17, 1845 [Huacho].
Glyphidodon latifrons Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, ii, 316, 1898 [Iquique].
Following Jordan and Evermaun (Fishes of JSf.
A., ii, 1,550, 1898), we have placed this species in Eupomacentrus on the character of a single row of teeth in each jaw.
Following is the original description : " D. 13-20.
A.
2-14.
V. 1-5.
P. 20.
* ' Verhaltniss der Hohe zur L'ange 1:2, 8, des Kopfes zum Korper 1:3, 2.
Auge rund, weniger als sein Durchmesser vom vordern Stirnrande und fast zweimal denselbeu vom Vordeckelrande entfernt; nahe am Stirnrande, dreimal sein Durchmesser vom Unterkieferwinkel. "
Nasenlocher kleiu, kreisrund, niiher dem Stirnrande als dem Auge.
Maul klein, nicht bis zum Auge gespalten.
In jedem Kiefer eine Reihe ziemlich gleichmiissige schmaler, von vorn nach hinten etwas comprimirter und riickwtirts gebogene Ziihne.
Der verticale Ast des Deckels ist einfach und biegt sich unter rechtem AVinkel in dem Queren, welcher nach uuten etwas convex ist.
Der untere Dorn des Vordeckels ist starker als der obere, zwischen beiden ist der Deckel stark nach vom ausgeschnitten. "
Der Kopf ist klein, die Stirn breite und schwach gewolbt, die Riickenkante ziemlich schmal, Stirn, Gesicht und Deckel klein-, der iibrige Korper gross beschuppt.
Die Flossen, besouders die After-, Brustunci Schwanzflossen, mit kleinen Schuppen besetzt.
Die Seitenlinie geht der Riickenkante sehr hoch nach obeu parallel. "
Die Riickenflosse beginnt etwas weiter voi'n als die Brustflosse und reicht etwas weniger weit als die Afterflosse.
Der 3te bis 6te Flossenstachel sind die liingsten, der Iste, 12te, 13te die kiirzesten.
Der 5te bis 8te Flossenstrahl sind die langsten.
Schwanzflosse in der Mitte stark ausgeschnitten uad breit.
Die Afterflosse beginnt der weichen Riickenflosse gegeniiber, der 2te Stachel ist doppelt so gross und stark als der Iste, aber doch nocli kiirzer als der erste Flossenstrahl.
Die Bauchflosse beginnt hinter der Brustflosse und reicht nach hinten gelegt bis zur Basis des ersten Afterflosseustrahls.
Die Brustflosse beginnt tiefer als der untere Vordeckekloru und reicht bis zum lOten Riickenflossenstachel.
"Fdrbung.
— Der ganze Korper ist hellgrau, ungefleckt, aber auf dem Riicken rosafarben iiberlaufen und daher etwas dunkler.
Der Bauch in der Mittellinie am hellsten. "
Lange 9". '
' Vorkommen.
— "Wir haben nur wenige Examplare dieser Species in Huacho, nordlich von Lima, erhalten."
LABRID^.
77.
Pimelometopon canis (Philippi).
Trochocopus cauls Thilippi, Sobre los Tiburones de Chile, 38, 1887, lam.
vii, fig.
3.
Local name, Peje-perro.
The size of the scales evidently places the species under Pimelometopon.
Habitat.
— Iquique.
78.
Pimelometopon darwinii (Jenyns).
Cossyphus darwinii Jenyus, Voy.
Beagle, Fishes, 100, pi.
20, 1842 [Galapagos].
Labrus asper Valenciennes, Voy.
de la Venus, Poiss., 338, pi.
8, fig.
1, 1855.
Trochocopus darioinii Giintlier.
Cat., iv, 100, 1862 ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 317, 1898 [Iquique].
Pimelometopon dancinii Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila., 1864, 59.
OPLEG-NATHIDJE.
79.
Oplegnathus insignus (Kuer).
Scaristoma insiqne Kner, Neue Fi«che aus Mus.
Godeffroy, 7 (Sitz.
d. k. Ak.
Wiss.
Wien, i, pi.
ii, 1867).
This species is known only from Kner's description and excellent plate.
It is closely related to 0. fasciatus from Japan {Scaradonfascudus Temminck and Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, 89, pi.
46, 1847), specimens of which we have examined, but we are inclined to consider the two species as distinct, although the color pattern and the dentition in fasciatus appear to vary with age.
Habitat — "^y est coast of South Amei-ica."
BA.L.ISTID^.
80.
Balistes adspersus Tschudi.
BaUstes adspersus Tschudi, Fauna Peruana, 31, 1845 [Huacho].
Following is Tschudi' s original description: " D. 3-24.
A.
1-20.
P. 14. "
Verhaltniss der Hohe zur Liiuge 1:2, 6 ; des Kopfes zum Kfirper 1:3.
Auge rund, nahe am obern Stirnrande, viermal sein Durchmesser von der Schnauzeuspitze, fiinfmal denselben vom Unterkiefer entfernt.
Maul sehr klein.
"■ Die vordere Riickenflosse besteht uur aus drei Stacheln; der erste ist dick und lang, auf seiner obern Fliiche gezahnelt, der lezte der kleinste und steht etwas abgeriiekt.
Die zweite Riickenflosse beginnt dem After gegeniiber; sie bildet ein Dreieck, dessen hinterer Schenkel der langste ist und reicht unbedeutend waiter nach hinten als die Afterflosse.
Schwanzflosse facherformig nach hinten gewolbt, an den Enden etwas nach vorn eingeschnitten.
Die Afterflosse is wie die Riickenflosse, ihr vorderer Ansatz aber etwas weiter nach hinten geriickt.
Die Bauchflosse besteht aus einem stumpfen, kurzeu, mit kleinen Dorncheu besetzten Stachel.
Die Brustflosse ist abgerundet, facherformig ausgebreitet und sitzt dem ersten Riickenflossenstachel gegeniiber am untern Wiukel der Kiemenspalte.
"Fdrbung.
— Schwarzblau, mit weisslich blauen runden Fleckchen, die an Menge nach dem Bauche hin zuuehmen. "
Liinge 10". "
Vorkommen.
— Das hier beschriebene Exemplar wurde in Huacho gefangen."
SOORPiENIDuE.
81.
Sebastodes darwini Cramer.
{?)
Sebastes oculata Jenyns, Voyage of the Beagle, Fish, 37, 1840 [Valparaiso].
Sebastodes darwini Cramer, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
, 1896, p. 240 [Mexillones, Peru] ; Jordan and Evermann, Fishes of N. A., ii, 1832, 1897 (copied).
Local name, Cahrilla.
An interesting species, originally described from Peru, close to S. rosaceus, but less pronounced with respect to spinous development.
Not represented in the Callao collection.
Range.
— Peru and Chile.
82.
Agriopus peruanus Cuvier and Valenciennes.
Agriopus peruanus Cuv.
and Val., Hist.
Nat., iv, 389, 1829 [San Lorenzo islands] ; Gay, Hist.
Chile Zool., ii, 181, 1848 ; Giinther, Voyage Alert, Fish, 20, 1881 [W. coast Patagonia] ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 297, 1898 [Iquique].
BATRACHOIDID^.
83.
Porichtliys porosus Cuvier and Valenciennes.
Porichthys porosus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat., xii.
506, pi.
368, 1837 [Valparaiso] : Gay, Hist.
Chile Zoo)., ii, p. 296, 1848 ; Giinther, Shore Fishes.
Challenger, 25, 1880 [Valparaiso] ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 306, 1898 [Iquique].
84.
Auchenionchus crinitus (Jenyns).
Clinus crinitus Jen.vns, Voy.
Beagle, Fishes, 90, pi.
18, fig.
1 [Coquimbo]; Gay, Hist.
Chile, ii, 280; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 311, 1898 [Iquique].
(?)
Clinus pfr'/ri<inus Cuvier and Valenciennes, xi, 383, 1836 [no definite locality].
Auchenionchus, gen. char.
Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Phila., 1860, 103.
GOBIID^.
85.
Gobiodes peruanus (Steindachner).
Amblyopus broussonetii Giinther, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., iii, 136, 161 [coast of Peru].
Amblyopus peruanus Steindachner, Denk.
Ak.
Wien, xlii, 1880, 94 [Zur Fisch Fauna der Fliisse bei Guayaquil].
Habitat.
— Peru and Ecuador, coastwise and in streams.
BLENNIID^.
86.
Labrisomus pMlippi (Steindachner).
Clinus phiUppi Steindachner, Ichth.
Notizen, iii, 3 (Sitz.
Ak.
Wiss.
Wien, liii, 210, 1866) ['^ West coast of South America"].
Clinus fortidentatus Cope, Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc, 26 (sep.), 1877 [Callao].
Local name, Framhollo.
Six specimens, length 260 mm.
(circa).
Head Z\, depth 4-5 in body.
Eye 5-6^, 2 in snout.
A very voracious fish.
The throat and stomach of two of the specimens were gorged with Stolephorus tapirulus, fully 100 mm.
long.
The stomach in each was found full of mollusc shells, sea urchin spines and plates, and small crustaceans, including a goodsized crab with shell unbroken.
87.
Labrisomus microcirrliis (Cuvier and Valenciennes).
Clinus microcirrhis Cuv.
and Val., Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., xi, 384, 183& [Valparaiso]; Cope, Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc, 1877, 26 [Callao].
Habitat.
— West coast of South America, from Peru to Chile.
88.
Blennius tetranemus Cope.
Blennius tetranemus Cope, Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc, 1877, 26 [Pecasmayu bay].
89.
Hypleurochilus paytensis (Steindachner).
Blennius paytensis Steindachner, Ichtliy.
Beitriige, v, 171 (Sitzb.
Ak.
Wiss.
i, Ixxiv, 1876), [Payta, Peru].
90.
Scartichthys rubropunctatus (Cuvier and Valenciennes).
Salarlas rubropunctatus Cuv.
and Val., Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., xi, 348, 1836 [Juan Fernandez] ; Gay, Hist.
Chile ZooL, ii, 271 [Juan Fernandez] ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 309, 1898 [Juan Fernandez] .
Scartichthys rubropunctatus Jordan and Evermann, Fishes of North and Middle America, 2396, 1898 [Callao].
Not Salarias rubropunctatus Kner, Novara Fische, 198 [Valparaiso].
Range.
— Coast of South America, from Panama to Chile.
91.
Scartichthys gigas (Steindachner).
Salarias gigas Steindachner, Icbthv.
Beitriige, v, 172, (Sitzb.
Ak.
Wiss.
i, Ixxiv, 1876), [Callao].
92.
Scartichthys eques (Steindachner).
Salarias eques Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 307, Taf.
19, figs.
5, 5a, 1898 [Iquique].
93.
Scartichthys viridis (Cuvier and Valenciennes).
Salarias viridis Cuv.
and Val., xi, 344, 1836 [Valparaiso] ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, 308, Taf.
19, figs.
6, 6a, 1898 [Iquique].
Local name, Burracho.
94.
Ophioblennius semifasciatus (Kner and Steindachner).
BlennopMs semifasciatus Kner nnd Stein., Neue Fische aus Mus.
Godeffr.
14, fig.
6 (Sitz.
d. k. Ak.
Wiss.
VVien, 1866) [Iquique].
TRAOHINID^.
95.
Trachinus draco Linneeus.
Trachinus draco Kner, Neue Fische aus Mus.
Godeffroy 9 (Sitz.
d. Ak.
Wiss.
Wien, 1 Ab., 1867) [Iquique].
As to the reliability of the presence of this species upon the Peruvian coast, we have only the assurance of Kner that his specimen from Iquique agreed "in alien Punkteu " with European specimens.
There is, of course, the possibility of a mistake in labelling.
ECHENEID^.
96.
Eemora remora (Linnseus).
Echeiieis remora R. A. Philippi, Feces Nuevos de Chile, Anales de la Univ.
de Chile, tomo xciii, 1896, p. 376.
Philippi mentions specimens in the National Museum at Valparaiso from Panama, Guayaquil, Iquique, Quinteros and Algarroba, mentioning the fact that the Iquique specimen is somewhat darker than the others.
G-OBIESOOID^.
97.
Gobiesox sanguineus (MUllerand TrOschel).
Sicyuscs sanguineKS Miiller and Troschel, Wiegmann Archive, 293, 1843; Giinther, Cat.
Brit.
Mus., iii, 494, 1861 [Valparaiso] ; Steindachner, Fauna Chilensis, ii, 315, 1898 [Juan Fernandez and Iquique].
Gobiesox brevirostris Gay, Hist.
Chile Zool., ii, 335, lam 9, fig-.
1.
Local name, Peje Scvpo.
The four specimens of this large species in the (Jallao collection are faded in the alcohol, though the fins, head and back are unmistakably red.
The belly and sides of the body are a bluish copper marbled with darker.
The fin rays showed considerable variation in the four fish counting as follows : D. 9, A.
5; D. 8, A.
5; D. 9, A.
6; D. 8, A.
6.
Length 140 mm.
to 180 mm.
Ramje.
— Coasts of Peru and Chile.
98.
Gobiesox marmoratus Jenyns.
Gobiesox 'niariaoratus Jenvns, Voy.
Beagle, 140, pi.
xxvii, fig.
1, 1842 [Chiloe] ; Gay, Chile Zool., ii, p. 336, 1848 ; Steindachaer, Fauna Chilensis, 316 [Iquique, Calbuco, Juan Fernandez].
99.
Arbaciosa pyrrhocinclus (Cope).
Slcyases pyrrhocinclus Cope, Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc, 27, 1877.
Peru [Pecasmayu bay ?]
.
100.
Arbaciosa petersii (Garman).
Slcyases petersii Garman, Proc.
Boston 8oc.
Nat.
Hist., xviii, 203, 1876.
Peru.
PLEURONEOTID^.
101.
Paralichthys adspersus (Steiudachner).
PscudorJwmbus adspersus Steiudachner, Ichthy.
Notizen, v, 9, pi.
ii, (Sitzb.
Ak.
Wiss.
i, Iv, 1867), [Chiuchas islands].
Not Paralichthys adspersus Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. N. Mus.. 1882, 372 ; Jordan et al., Proc.
Calif. Acad.
Sci., 1895, 503, and others.
Local name, Ztngua.
Four specimens.
This species has been confused for a long time with the common Paralichthys of Mazatlan, from which it is wholly distinct.
The Mexican species (P. sinalo(e Jordan and Abbott, in Fishes of N. A., Addenda, 2872) has cycloid scales and fewer gill rakers (14 or 13), while in adsper'sus the scales are strongly toothed, and the gill rakers average 16 or 17.
The four specimens at hand are sinistral, glossy black on the eyed side, and show the spots and ocelli peculiar to the species.
D. 68-74.
A.
54-56.
Length 250 mm.
to 320 ram.
Habitat.
— Coast of Peru.
102.
Etropus ectenes Jordan.
Etropnft ectenes Jordan, in Jordan and Goss, Review of the Flounders.
Rep. U. S. F. C, 1886, 277 (1889).
Callao, Paraca bay, Peru.
July 11.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Eight persons present.
July 18.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair, len persons present.
A New AmpuUaria.
— Dr. H. A. Pilsbry spoke of au Ampullaria recently collected by himself and Dr. T. H. Montgomery, Jr., in a creek flowing from the Everglades near Miami, Dade County, in southeastern Florida, specimens of the shell being exhibited.
The species, which he proposed to name Ampullaria miamlensli, is similar to A. depressa Say, of the St. John's river, in size and general contour, but adult shells are remarkably solid and strong, with the peristome heavily thickened, the callus beiug especially strong at the base of the columella.
The color is very dark, with obscure spiral bauds, usually more or less lost in the general duskiness in adult individuals.
July 25.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Eighteen persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for pulilication : " Descriptions of Six New American Rabbits," by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr. " Descriptions of New Mexican Laud and Fresh-water Mollusks," by Henry A. Pilsbry.
R. A. F. Penrose, Jr., aud Benjamin West Frazier were elected members.
The following was ordered to be printed: MOEPHOLOGICAL AND SYSTEMATIC NOTES ON SOUTH AMERICAN LAND SNAILS: ACHATINID^.
BY HENRY' A. PILSBRY' AND EDWARD G. VANATTA.
Dr. H. von Ihering, director of the Miiseu Paulista, having entrusted to the senior author of this paper a considerable collection of alcoholic preparations of land snails amassed during his residence in Brazil, a beginning of their study is herein made.
It must be regretted by all that von Ihering, urged by the pressure of official duties, could not himself conduct the investigation of this important material; for his large experience with South American forms of life and his genius for dealing with problems of molluscan morj^hology, would have given an especial value to the work.
Alcoholic specimens of two genera of Achatinidce are present.
Neither of them has hitherto been investigated.
Genus NEOBELISCUS Pilsbry.
Nautilus, X, p. 46 (August, 1896).
Shell solid and strong, large, imperforate, turreted, slowly tapering, several earlier whorls rapidly tapering, forming a conic apex.
Whorls about 10, similarly sculptured, convex.
Aperture irregularly ovate, the outer lip unexpanded, acute, columella vertical, foldless, its edge narrowly revolute and adnate throughout.
Foot very short and broad, squarely truncated behind; with no appearance of grooves or specialized granulation above the margins; sole undivided.
Genitalia (PI.
XV, fig.
5) without accessory organs, the atrium short.
^ system with a long, club-shaped penis with strongly folded internal walls, and terminal retractor muscle and vas deferens.
Talon, (fig.
5a, t ) large, consisting of a swollen distal portion on a narrow, devious duct of similar length.
9 system with the vagina rather short, spermatheea oblong, borne on a duct of about double its own length, and remote from the heart.
Free oviduct as long as the spermatheea duct.
Uterus with thin walls, enormously distended when containing young, two of which occupy it at a time.
Albumen gland (figs.
5, 5a, a.
gl.)
very gmall, shorter than the talon and far smaller than the spermatheca.
Median moiety of the hermaphrodite duct extravagantly convoluted and knotted.
Vivipaz'ous; the shell of the young at birth is nearly one-fourth the length, and exceeds one-third the diameter of adult shells, with half the number of whorls.
Jletractor muscle system (PI.
XVI, fig.
9) somewhat resembling that of Rumin.a ; right, left and tail retractors free except at the very insertion, where they are very shortly united.
Tail retractor very long; right retractor splitting up distal) y into (1) numerous anterior and lateral pedal retractors, (2) the retractor of the eye, and (3) the retractor of the penis; left retractor giving rise (1) far anteriorly to the short pharyngeal retractor which is shortly bifurcate anteriorly, and (2) in front of this, splitting into ocular and pedal retractors.
Lung (PI.
XVI, fig.
14) long and narrow, the venation faint, mainly concentrated anteriorly and consisting chiefly of fine parallel veins transverse to the pulmonary vein, which is otherwise unbranched.
Heart normal.
Kidney more than double the length of the pericardium, quite narrow, its length contained about 3^ times in that of the lung.
Ureter retrograde, continued along the gut, closed throughout.
The jaw (PI.
XV, fig.
4) is arcuate, densely striated, under strong magnification showing transverse striolation in its substance, crenulatiug the vertical striae.
Radula composed of 44, 1, 44 teeth in slightly bow-shaped ro^vs (PI.
XV, fig.
1).
Centrals very narrow, less than one-fourth ihe width of the adjacent laterals, and bearing no cusps in adult animals.
Laterals with the basal plate wide and square, tricuspid, the median cusp broadly conic, not as long as the basal plate, side cusps short and blunt.
Marginal teeth with longer and blunt cutting points on the median, and more acute cutting points on the side cusps.
Salivary glands united above.
Crop moderately swollen, stomach small, globose.
Type iV.
\_Herix] cakarea Born.
Distribution, Brazil and upper Amazon drainage.
Affinities of Neobelisciis.
Neobeliseus is a genus full of novel and interesting structures ; and while future knowledge of those genera of Stenogyroid Achatinicke of which the soft anatomy is yet unknown will doubtless reduce the number of characteristics peculiar to the genus, it will probably still remain somewhat isolated.
The clumsy summit of the shell, very different from the small bulbous nucleus of Stenogyra obellsciis, Rumina decollata and other large forms, is one of the obvious conchological stigmata.
The dull silken lustre of the shell of the enormous uterine young, produced by dense fine lamellose striae, and uncut by the spirals which appear on the post-natal growth, is not paralleled in Stenogyra, which is glossy at first.
But it is in the reproductive organs that the most striking features are seen.
The penis is simple in structure, wanting the peculiar external sheath so characteristic of Achatina ; but its retractor muscle arises not from the diaphragm as in almost all Vasopulmonata, hnt from the right tentacular and pedal band.
It would not seem i-easonable to question the homology of this penial retractor with the usual one, but how so radical a change of base could have been effected is problematic.
We know of no other snail in which the tentacular retractor contributes a fascia to the genital system.
The talon (shown partially straightened out in fig.
5a, t. ) is large as in Callionepion, but of a different shape.
The attached portion of the sperm duct is composed of a dense mass of radiating vermiform tubules or cseca, a detail not drawn in the figure.
The uterus in virgin or functionally inactive individuals is shrunken, and lies in numerous deep, regular longitudinal plaits.
When carrying young at almost full term it presents the appearance shown in fig.
5, the young lying with the head directed anteriorly, the ventral face toward the sperm duct.
The head of the uterine young is retracted ; and from the upper surf ace^of the foot, about the position of the operculum in an operculate suail, there arises a flat membrane which spreads over the ventral face of the young shell (PL XV, fig.
6, ap.).
From the hollow base of this placenta-like organ a duct penetrates forward and upward through the tissues of the foot ; but from the poor preservation of the infant tissues in our material we could not ascertain what it communicates with.
From what was observed it appears likely that the spreading membrane and its duct are analogous to the mammalian placenta and umbilical cord.
This probability is enhanced by the reduction of the albumen gland to a mere rudiment or vestige, evidently of but slight fuQctional importance, and probably throwing the function of supplying nutriment to the embryo upon the arteries of the uterus.
In the viviparous Stylodonta something of the same sort occurs, ^ though I do not know that the albumen gland is obsolete in that genus.
The jaw and teeth are quite what we would expect, though the absence of a cusp on the narrow, central is a further specialization in line with the general degeneration of that tooth in Achatiuida'.
In the radula of a uterine embryo, however, that cusp was found developed (PI, XV, fig.
2), and all of the cusps, as would be expected of teeth which had never been used, are longer and more acute.
The myology offers some interesting characters.
As in JRumina (figured for comparison in PI.
XV, fig.
10), the retractor of the pharynx (phi r. ) is short and branches from the left retractor band far forward.
Unlike Rumina, it bifurcates.
We regard the branch br.
of the left retractor baud as probably a mere anomaly.
It is one of the lateral pedal retractors.
All three retractor bauds are free to the proximal root, where they are very shortly though firmly united.
This is unlike Rumina, in which the right retractor and the tail retractor are united for a distance nearly as great as the free length of the latter.
The anomalous insertion of the retractor of the penis has already been discussed.
The lung resembles that of Rumina (figured in PI.
XVI, fig.
15 for comparison) in the absence of large branches on the pulmonary vein, and the mainly transverse venation, which in Xeobeliscus, however, is much finer and fainter.
History of the Generic Name.
In regard to the name herein used for the genus, some explanation may be advisable.
In a former paper,^ the senior author proposed the name Neobeliscus for the species calcareus Born and cuneus ^See Viguer's paper, or the synopsis given in Man.
Condi.
(2), ix, r. 150. ""
Nautilus, X, 46 (1890).
24 Pfr.
Hitherto they have been grouped together with another series of large species, of which Helix obeliscus Moric.
is a typical example, under the name Obeliscus Beck;^ but Gray, in 1847, nominated as the type of that group the Helix obtusata of Gmelin, a sj^ecies of Madagascar for which the name Clavator was subsequently proposed.
Obeliscus has also been used by Humphrey* in 1797 as a generic name for the Trochus dolabratus of Linne, which was later called Pymmidella by Lamarck.
Clearly, then, we cannot retain the name for these South American snails.
In 1854, Shuttleworth' proposed the genus Stenogyra to include as subgenera the prior groups Rumina Risso (1826), Obeliscus and Subulina Beck (1837), Opeas Albers (1850), and the new subgenus Pseudobalea.
These sections, as Shuttleworth terms them, are briefly defined, but no types are mentioned ; after which the species of the island of Porto Rico are enumerated: Stenogyra (Opeas) subula Pfr,, Stenogyra (Opeas) octonoides C. B.
Ad., Stenogyra (Opeas) marg aritacea Shuttl., Stenogyra (Opeas) alabastrina Shuttl., Stenogyra (Opeas) gomphorium Shuttl., Stenogyra (Opeas) Goodalli Mill., Stenogyra (Pseudobalea) Dominicensis Pfr., Stenogyra (Obeliscus) Swiftiana Pfr., Stenogyra (Obeliscus) terebraster Pfr., Stenogyra (Subulina) octona Ch., Stenogyra (Subulina) acicularis Shuttl.
No type species was selected, nor did Dr. von Martens name one in treating of the group in the second edition of Albers' Die Heliceen.
It is obvious that Stenogyra cannot replace the older groups mentioned above, but can only be used for some constituent of the mass not already provided with a name.
Such a one is found in the so-called Obeliscus of Shuttleworth' s list; for, as explained above, Obeliscus cannot he used in this connection.
We would therefore restrict Stenogyra to the Obeliscus of Shuttleworth's list, taking S. terebraster as the type.
Other large Antilleau species, such as S. Salleana of San Domingo and S. gigas of Cuba belong here, with probably the larger continental species grouping around S. obeliscus.
None -of the species are known anatomically, but the small apical whorls and more numerous volutions separate them from those now referred to Neobeliscus.
^ Index Molluscorum, p. 61 (1837).
* Museum Calonnianuin, p. 24.
^Diag/i.
Neuer Moll., No.
6, Bern.
Mittheil., 1854, p. 137.
■Compare *S'.
obeliscus (Mor. )
with X. calcareus (Born), or *S'.
(figas (Poey) with N. cuneus (Pfr.
).
Genus CALLIONEPION iiov.
Shell turreted, slowly tapering, with diamond-granulate uepionie shell of about 2h whorls, retained in the adult, the subsequent whorls differently sculptured.
Type species with 9^ moderately •convex whorls, apex very obtuse.
Aperture ovate, with slightly expanded outer lip, the columellar lip with free expanded edge (as in Bulimulus or Opeas) ; columella with a small, rather sharp oblique median fold.
Genitalia (PI.
XV, fig.
8) without accessory organs; atrium short.
^ system with the penis large, elongate, the vas defei'ens inserted at its apex, beyond which a hollow tube or sack (fig.
8, x. )
of unknown nature extends, terminating in a short retractor muscle; talon (t.) large, composed of a thick curved basal portion and a slightly longer, narrow terminal part.
$ system with the vagina short; spermatheca globular, lodged near the heart, its duct long and slender; free oviduct very short, the convoluted portion unusually long ; albumen gland well developed.
Hermaphrodite duct moderately convoluted.
Apparently oviparous, the young shell when hatched about onetenth the length and less than one-third the diameter of the adult shell.
The right eye-retractor muscle passes between c?
and $ branches of genital system; the penis retractor muscle is inserted upon the diaphragm.
The jaw is lost, and the radula obtained is frayed at the edges, so that the number of teeth in a transverse row cannot be stated, but it was probably not over fifty.
The rachis consists of well-developed teeth, fully as v/ide as the laterals, with square basal plate and tricuspid reflection, the middle cusp large, though shorter than the basal plate ; the side cusps small.
In the lateral teeth an inner cusp is absent.
Marginals similar, with oblique mesocone, acute small ectocone and short basal plate.
Type CaUionepion Iheringi n. sp.
Affinities of CaUionepion.
The peculiar disparity between the sculpture of the nepionic and post-uepionic whorls of the shell (when not obscured by erosion), the free, expanded edge of the columella!lip, and the sharp though small median fold on the columella, are characters sundering Callionepion from other South American Stenogyroid genera.
The vagina is much shorter than in Rumina (where it equals the length of the spermatheca duct), and the duct of the spermatheca is longer than in Rumina, Achatlna, Neobeliseus or Opeas, being caught with the gut in the loop of the aorta, and consequently the spermatheca lies near the heart, as shown in the diagram annexed to fig.
8a.
In the wide teeth of the median row, this genus differs remarkably from all known American J.c/ia^M;i(ice of the " Stenogyra " form, departing from the type of dentition nearly universal in the family.
Callionepion Iheringi n. sp.
PI.
XV, flgs.
11, 12, 13.
Shell rimate, turreted, narrow, subregularly tapering ; surface glossy, covered with a greenish cuticle, somewhat irregularly plicatulate, decussated by numerous minute spiral strite or very short cuticular processes, which are lost by wear from the greater part of the shell, and then appear as lightly impressed lines.
Whorls 9^, moderately convex, separated by impressed sutures, the apex very obtuse, with depressed tip, surface of the earlier 2^ whorls cut into an evenly grauose pattern by close, deep, obliquely descending grooves intersecting at right angles; last whorl rounded at base.
Aperture irregularly ovate, slightly oblique, its length contained 3i times in that of the shell ; peristome thin, acute, the outer margin slightly expanded, columellar margin reflexed, dilated, impressed at its insertion, bearing a low, narrow submedian oblique fold.
Internal pillar slender and nearly straight, with a low spiral fold within the last whorl.
Alt.
24, diam.
7, length of aperture 6.6 mm.
Alt.
23.5, diam.
7, length of apertui-e 7 mm.
Piquete, Prov.
Sao Paulo, Brazil (Dr. H. von Iheriug).
The peculiar apical sculpture separates this from all other South American Stenogyroid species known to me.
When this sculpture is obscured by erosion, as occurs to a greater or less extent in many adult shells, the slightly expanded lip and median fold of the columella are still obvious recognition marks.
The type is No.
71,258, coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Summary.
— The two genera described above are not closely related to forms known anatomically from other regions, and therefore throw no light upon the vexed questions of the alliance of the South American fauna to that of tropical Africa or other regions.
They can have no bearing on the hypothetical Antarctica.
Neobelisciis is the most highly specialized member of the Achatinidce known, and apparently forms no ca^isule of albumen, but nourishes the embryo directly, as in mammals.
The teeth are ultra-achatiuoid, and the muscJe system aberrant.
Callionepioii is probably an individualized survivor of a primitive achatinoid, retaining the early form of teeth.
There is no reason for believing that either genus reached South America from without.
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES.
Plate XV.
Fig.
1.
Neobeliscus calcareus (Born).
Teeth of an adult individual.
R., rachidian or median tooth; the side teeth are numbered.
Fig.
2.
Teeth of a uterine young individual (fig.
7) of the same species.
Fig.
3.
Callionepion Iheringi n. sp.
Teeth.
R., rachidian; L., 1 ; laterals 15, a marginal tooth.
Fig.
4.
Neobeliscus calcareus.
Jaw.
Fig.
5.
Neobeliscus calcareus.
Genitalia of an individual carrying two uterine young, the anterior one about at full term.
X IJ.
No.
73,455, coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
a.
gl., albumen gland; atr., atrium; h. d., hermaphrodite, or ovisperm duct; r. r., right retractor muscle; ]).
r., penis retractor; jj., penis; sj)., spermatheca; t , talon; td., uterus.
Fig.
5«.
Albumen gland (a.
gl.
), talon (t.) and beginning of the hermaphrodite duct (A. d.), of the same individual.
X 4, the organs separated.
Fig.
6.
Uterine young of the same, ventral aspect.
/., foot; ap., placentalike appendage.
Somewhat less than natural size.
Fig.
7.
Shell of the same.
Somewhat less than natural size.
Fig.
8.
Callioiiejnon Iherhigl.
Genitalia X 3;^.
Letters as for fig.
5; X,, hollow sack.
No.
73,454, coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Fig.
8a.
Diagram showing the relation of the cephalic branch of the aorta {ao. )
to the gut (G'', G^) and spermatheca (sp.).
H., heart.
Plate XVI.
Fig.
9.
Neobelisciis calcareus.
Free retractor muscles, dorsal aspect.
br., branch of left retractor; I. o. r., left ocular retractor; I. r., left retractor; 2>-, penis; ^;/t., pharynx, or buccal mass; ph.
r., pharyngeal retractor; p. r., retractor of the penis; r. o. r. , right ocular retractor; r. r., right retractor; r. /.
v., right tentacular retractor; t. r., tail retractor.
Fig.
10.
Rumina decoUata (L. ).
Free retractor muscles X 2, dorsal aspect.
Lettering as in preceding figure.
Specimen from Malta, No.
72,504, coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
The pharynx and pharyngeal retractor are removed from their normal median position, and placed to the left.
Fig.
11.
Calllonepion Iheringi.
Shell, natural size.
No.
71,258, coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Fig.
12.
Apical whorls of same, much enlarged.
Fig.
13.
Aperture of same, enlarged.
Fig.
14.
Neobeliscus calcareus.
Intestine and pallial region, slightly less than natural size.
G^'*, four folds of the gut; g. u. v., secondary ureter; H., heart; k., kidney ; p. v., pulmonary vein ; st. , stomach ; ur.
, ureter.
Fig.
15.
Rumina decollaia.
Intestine and pallial region X 2.
p>h., pharynx; s. g., salivary gland.
Fig.
16.
Pharynx and salivary gland, ventral aspect, X 2, of the same specimen.
Fig.
17.
Genitalia, X 2, of the same specimen.
1899.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
375 August 1.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman iu the Chair.
Nine persons present.
The deaths of J. Blodget Britton and Daniel G. Brintou, M.D., members, were announced.
In compliance with the recommendation of the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award, the medal and the interest on the fund for 1899 were conferred on Prof. Gilles Joseph GusTAVE Dewalque, of the University of Liege, Belgium.
^ The following biographical note was presented with the report : G. J. GusTAVE Dewalque, Professor Emeritus of the University of Liege, Belgium, was born at Stavelot, December 2, 1826.
He entered the University of Liege, received first prize for a memoir on The Nature of Chemical Affinity in 1849 at the University competition.
He graduated as a Doctor of Medicine, Surgery and Obstetrics in 1853, and Doctor of Natural Sciences in 1854.
The cholera having reappeared, he was made resident physician of the temporary hospital of St. Julien in 1854; then of St. Thomas in 1855.
He sought, but Avithout success, the microbe of cholera in the air, but proved the transmission of the malady from man to the dog.
He became a member of the Council of Public Health of the province in 1857; General Secretary in 1872; President in 1875, and Honorary President in 1895.
He was one of the organizing members of the Malacological Society in 1863, and of the Society of Public Medicine in 1877.
He was Chairman of the Committee on Medical Topography from its origin.
He commenced instructing as supplementary Professor of Physics and Chemistry in 1850 at the College of Lie'ge; was made Demonstrator of the course of Human and Comparative Physiology at the University in 1852, and joined with these functions, at the request of A. Dumont, in 1855, those of Conservator of the Mineral Collections and Instructor in Mineralogy and Geology at the School of Mines.
The unexpected death of his illustrious master opened to him these chairs in 1857.
L. G. de Koniuck very shortly thereafter transferred to him the instruction in paleontology.
In 1897 he was admitted to the degree of Emeritus.
Having published, for the use of his pupils, an Atlas of Crystallography and a Description of the Crystalline System, he issued ia 1858 the Prodromus of a Geological Description of Belgium, a model of clearness, precision and science, which exei'cised the greatest influence on the study of geology in Belgium.
In 1874 he founded the Geological Society of Belgium, of which he has been the General Secretary from its origin to the year 1898, when the advance of years induced him to retire.
He was made Honorary General Secretary, and a medallion in hronze was presented to him with his portrait in profile.
He was made Chevalier of the Order of Leopold in 1870, Officer in 1881, and Commander in 1892.
He became a member of the Academy of Science in 1854, was its President in 1870.
He is President of the Committee of National Biography (of which he has been a member since its origin in 1860), to which he has furnished more than eighty notices.
In cooperation with the Geological Society, he suggested the preparation of a detailed geological map of Belgium at the expense of the State.
This resulted in a suitable recognition of capable geologists, so that in ten or twelve years a map consisting of 226 sheets on a 40, too ^^ale will have been completed.
He translated i\\Q Revieiv of Pyrogenetic Minerals, of Gurlt (1857); the memoir of Bevrich on the Tertiary Series of North Germany (1857) ; The Chapter of the Siluria of Sir Roderick Murchison : The Paleozoic Terranes of the Rhenish and Belgian Provinces (1860); The History of the Names " Cambrian'^ and '' SiluriaJi," by the regretted T. Sterry Hunt (1875); and finally the Paleocene Fauna of Copenhagen, by A. von Koenen (1886).
He also made numerous excursions abroad, notably to Devonshire and Wales, which enabled him to establish the correlation of the Cambrian formations of England and Belgium (1873).
At the first International Geological Congress, held in Paris in 1879, he was appointed Secretary of the Committee on Classification and Uniformity of Nomenclature, and this appointment was I'epeated at Bologna, Berlin and London.
The reports which he presented to the Congress of Bologna and Berlin are distinguished by impartiality, clearness and method.
Ou the occasion of his promotion to the grade of Commander he wrts presented with his bust in white marble.
The account of this manifestation of high esteem enumerates twenty-five publications i-elative to natural or medical sciences, and two hundred and eighty -six concerning the mineral sciences.
Some of these latter related to mineralogy and paleontology, notably the description of the fossils of the secondary formations of Luxembourg in collaboration with F. Chapuis, crowned by the Academy in 1851.
The greater part are concerned with the geology of Belgium, notably his notes on the Lias, in which he solved the question of the Sandstone of Luxembourg and of Hettange ; those on the anthracitic of the Condroz, in which he assigned, after others, but often differently, the Devonian beds to the Eifelian or middle Devonian, and the Famenniau or upper Devonian ; his discussion with M. Dupont relating to the gaps which that observer admitted in the Carboniferous limestone; on the plicated appearance of the beds of the Ardennes; on the granite of Lammersdorf ; on mineral waters, especially of Spa; on the pudding-stone of the Baraque-Michel : the origin of the labors which have demonstrated that the Tertiary (Oligocene) sea covered the Ardennes; on the giant pot-holes of the same region, and finally his i-emarkable geological map of Belgium and the neighboring provinces on a scale of -^jfohrwuf ^^^ minuteness of which does not prevent one from realizing the immense progress accomplished since the death of Dumont, in the corrections made on the German map in certain divisions of the Devonian, and in the beds of Daleideu which are represented for the first time.
Prof. Dewalque has also published a coup d'oeil of the advance of the mineral sciences in Belgium (1870) ; the Secular Report on the Works of the Academy {Mineral Sciences, 1872), and the Catalogue of the Works on Mineralogy, Geology, and Paleontology, together ivith the Geological Maps tvhich are found in the Principal Libraries of Belgium, issued by the Geological Society in 1884.
Monazite in Delaware County, Pa. — Mr. S. Harbert Hamilton stated that the occurrence of crystals of Monazite in the feldspar of the ancient rocks of eastern Pennsylvania had been reported to the Students' Mineralogical Club by Mr. J. Glading Dailey.
Monazite has been noted previously from several localities in the crystalline rocks of the Atlantic coast, but never before from Pennsylvania.
The particular locality discovered by Mr. Dailey is in the quarry just below Morgan's Station on the southeast side of Chester creek, about five miles from the city of Chester.
The associate minerals are magnetite, hematite, green mica, quartz and a flesh-colored feldspar in Avhich the crystals, about one-quarter of an inch in length, were observed.
Two or three perfect crystals were found and a quantity of fragments.
Mr. Dailey has subjected his find to the following examination : " The best crystals were examined with the aid of a polariscope, and what appeared to be parallel extinction was observed, thus excluding the possibility of its being distorted garnet, which had been suggested, and it apparently confined the crystallization to practically tetragonal or v^-,^^^''^ orthorhombic ; but upon looking up Monazite, which ^■~^ had been suggested, the angles of extinction were found to very nearly appi-oach right angles; thus the apparent parallel extinction of a monoclinic mineral was explained.
Measurements (rough, to be sure, for the surfaces did not permit the reflection of a well-defined image) were made with the reflecting goniometer of two angles, one of which was an essential angle.
For angle a w, which according to Dana is 39° 12' 30", was found 39° and about 19', and angle v v, which should be 73° 19' 00", was found about 73° 30'.
A qualitative chemical analysis was thought necessary to insure and corroborate the above.
The pulverized fragments were taken to dryness with hydrochloric acid, taken up with water and precipitated with oxalic acid.
This precipitate gave upon ignition the peculiar red color of the cerium group.
Another portion of powder upon fusion wilh white flux and solution in nitric acid gave with ammonium molybdate the characteristic reaction for phosphorus.
August 8.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Six persons present.
August 22.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Six persons present.
A paper entitled " New Species and Varieties of Mollusks from Miami, Florida," by Heary A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication.
The death of W. D. Hartman, M.D., a correspondent, was announced.
August 29.
Me.
Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Nine persons present.
Confirmation of the Generic Characters oj Ashmunella.
— Dr. Pilsbry stated that living specimens of a new form of Ashmunella {A. thomsoniana porterce Piis.
«S: Ckll.)
had been found recently by Miss Wilmatte Porter, one of Prof. Cockerell's pupils.
It proves to be similar in anatomy to the type of the genus, thus confirming the generic diagnosis.
The following were ordered to be printed: DESCEIPTIONS OF SIX NEW AMERICAN RABBITS.
BY GERRIT S. MILLER, JR.
The collection of rabbits in the United States National Museum contains the following hitherto undescribed forms, all from parts of America north of Panama.
I publish this paper here by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Subgenus MACROTOLAGUS Mearns.
Lepus asellus spnov. Tijpe adult ?
(skin and skull), No.
ff;ft| United States National Museum, collected at the city of San Luis Potosi, Mexico, October 22, 1891, by P. L. Jouy.
Original number, 270.
General Characters.
— In size and color most like Lepus merriami Mearns, but tail shorter and ears much longer, the latter fully equalling those of the largest L. texianus.
Nape scarcely darker than back.
Skull slightly heavier than in Lepus merriami, the nasals broader, and the audital bulh^s larger.
Color.
— Back an irregular grizzle of black and white, darker along median line.
Sides and rump slightly paler than back.
Tail entirely clear black above, grayish white beneath.
The black caudal area is continued forward over rump, gradually becoming narrower, and finally disappearing about 80 mm.
from base of tail.
Nape like back, only more finely grizzled.
A small dusky area immediately beliind base of ear.
Ears broccoli brown, paler behind, rimmed with buff.
The bufi* rim is continuous except where interrupted by the black tip.
It is paler along outer margin (near base of which it becomes nearly white), and darker along inner margin, where the hairs are noticeably lengthened.
Tip of ear black, the dark area about 40 mm.
long and at base 25 mm.
in width.
It lies mostly on the outer half of the ear.
Posterior base of ear blackish for about 20 mm.
Crown of head like back, but more closely grizzled.
Cheeks like sides.
An indistinct, narrow, pale area surroundiug eye.
Chin, upper part of throat and whole of belly white, very faintly tinged with bluish gray.
Neck ruff well developed, buff sprinkled with a few blackish hairs.
Legs light smoke gray tinged with bluish gray on inner side of thighs and with broccoli brown on front feet and forearms.
Hind feet whitish above.
On the front legs the white of the belly extends in a narrow line to wrist ; on the hind legs to feet.
Skull and Teeth.
— The skull of Lepus asellm is about the size of that of L. merriami or the small races of L. texianus.
It is conspicuously smaller than that of Lejms allini or L. texianus texianus.
In form it differs from the skull of L. merriami in its broader, deeper rostrum, broader nasals, wider interpterygoid fossa, longer, slightly narrower basioccipital, and slightly larger audital bullae.
MeasuremenU.
— External measurements of type (from fresh specimen by collector) : Total length, 558; tail vertebra?, 62; hind foot, 120; ear from crown, 175.
Cranial measurements of type: greatest length, 100; basal length, 8-1: ; basilar length, 78; henselion^ to posterior edge of bony palate (median), 37; least (lateral) length of bony palate, 7; posterior edge of bony palate to hamular, 21; length of incisive foramen, 26; width of incisive foramina, 10.4; zygomatic breadth, 44; interorbital breadth (inclusive of supraorbital processes), 30; greatest breadth of braincase, 32.4; breadth of rostrum at base of zygomata, 27; greatest (diagonal) length of nasals, 43; greatest breadth across both nasals, 22; least breadth across both nasals, 15.4; depth of brain case at anterior end of basioccipital, 30; diastema, 28.4; maxillary molar series (alveoh), 16.8; mandible, 74; diastema, 23; mandibular molar series (alveoli), 17.
Specimens Examined.— 1 have seen only the type of this species.
General Remarks.
— Lepus asellus is readily distinguishable from L. merriami by its somewhat smaller size, relatively as well as actually much longer ears, and gray nape.
From the Mexican Lepus callotis, two specimens of which Mr. Jouy collected at Guadalajara, Jalisco, it is instantly recognizable by its black-tipped ears and gray (not Avhitish) sides.
Although four names have been based on Mexican jackrabbits, it is easily shoAvn that all refer to animals with white-tipped ears, not in the least like Lepnis asellus.
Presumably the first of these is Lepus callotis Wagler {Nat.
Syst.
der Amphibien mit vorangehender Classif.
der Sdugeth.
und Vogel, p. 23, 1830).
The ^ Post-incisive homologue of gnathion.
description of the animal is very brief, but positive reference is made to the white outer surface of the ears.^ Another nanfe published in 1830 is the Lepus mexicanus of Lichtenstein (Ahhandl.
K. Akad.
Wissensch.
Berlin (1827), p. 101, 1830).
This is based on a Mexican specimen collected by Deppe, but, as in the case of Wagler's L. callotis, no definite type locality is mentioned.
The author, referring to Hernandez, ' ' Citli sive Lepus, ' ' remarks that the description of this animal is so brief that it has been hitherto overlooked, but that it nevertheless refers to a well-marked species characterized by the extreme length and breadth of the ears. '
' Had he but added, ' ' Lichtenstein continues, ' ' that these ears are dark colored on their anterior half, and on the posterior, less conspicuous part wholly white, the two colors sharply divided at the middle line, he would have sooner directed attention to an animal that first reached Europe in a shipment from Mr. Deppe, and which is deposited in our museum under the name Lejms mexicanus.
"* This description leaves no doubt that Lichtenstein had in hand a member of the white-eared callotis group.
Three years later the same animal or a closely related form was described as Lepus nigricaudahis by Bennett (Proc.
Zobl.
Soc.
London, I, p. 41, 1833).
Concerning the ears of this species the account reads : " These are in front mixed black and yellow, giving a grizzled appearance ; on the hinder part they are entirely ochraceous for about tAvo-thirds of the length of the ear, the terminal third, as well as the tip and the hinder fringe, being white " This is one of the species " obtained by the [Zoological] Society from that part of Cahfornia which adjoins Mexico."
Whatever it may be, it is evident that it is not the animal that I have called Lepus asellus.
The last of the names which need to be considered here is the Lepus flavigularis of Wagler (Schreber's Sdugethiere, Supplementband, Abth.
iv, p. 106, 1844).
It is based on a specimen from no certain locality.
While there is some doubt as to the -'■.
.
.
.
auribus longissinjis extus albis .
.
.
•" ^ Hatte er noch hiuzugef iigt, dass diese Oliren in ihrer vordern Hiilfte dunkel gefarbt, in der hinteren (weniger zum Vorscbein kommenden) vollig ■weiss siud und dass beide Farben in einer geraden Mittellinie sich unuiittelbar und scharf begranzen, so wiirde er die Aufmerksamkeit friiber aiif eiu Tbier gelenkt baben, das in Herrn Deppe's Sendungen zum erstenmal nach Europa gekouimen und in unserm Museum unter dera Namen Lepus mexicanus aufgestellt ist.
identity of I^epus flavujularis with L. callotis there cau be no question as to its distinctness from L. asellus, since the ears are said to be wholly yellowish on the outer side/ Subgenus MICROLAGUS Trouessart.
Lepus bachmani ubericolor subsp.
nov.
Type adult d' (skin and skull), No.
-H'Itt United States National Museum, collected at Beaverton, Oregon, February 25, 1890, by A. W. Anthony.
General Characters.
— Darker and redder than Lepus bachmani bachmanv' from California.
Color.
— General color throughout (except as otherwise described) a fine grizzle of reddjsh brown^ and black, the black slightly more conspicuous on back, the brown paling a little on sides, especially at flanks and shoulders.
Nape patch small and inconspicuous, dull cinnamon in color.
Ears blackish, heavily sprinkled with broccoh brown externally and frosted with whitish internally, and at base.
Near edge of inner surface of ear there is a strong sprinkling of Avood brown.
Belly, chin and upper part of throat dull <3ream bufi".
Chest and lower throat light wood brown.
Legs like sides.
Dorsum of inanus and pes dull white heavily sprinkled with brown.
Tail dull brown throughout, sprinkled Avith color of back above, and with dull >\ hite beneath ; the extreme base inconspicuously clear, dull white.
Skull and Teeth.
— The skull and teeth exactly resemble those of Lepus bachmani bachmani, except that they appear to be slightly larger throughout, and the audital bulloe may be relatively somewhat smaller.
Measurements.
— External measurements of type (from dry specimen, a Avell-prepared skin): Total length, 280; tail vertebrae, 15; hind foot, 75 ; ear from crown, 55.
Cranial measurements of type : Greatest length, 67 ; basal length, 57 ; basilar length, 52 ; henselion to posterior edge of palate (me'' " Auch au den Ohren hat das Gelbe die Oberband ; die ganze Ausseuseite ist gelb bebaart, ohne den grossen weissen Fleck, der den L. callotis var.
1 auszeicbnet ; niir die Spitze und der innere Eand sind niit einem weissen, der aussere mit einem ocbergelben Haarsaume eingefa«st " (p. 107, footnote).
^ Lepus hachmani Waterhouse, Pvoc.
Zool.
Sor.
London, p. 103 (not L. bachmani oi Baird, 1857, and authors from 1857 to 1898) ^ Lepus trowbridgei Baird, 1857.
® The exact shade is intermediate between the wood brown and russet of Ridgway {Nomencl.
of Colors, pi.
Ill, figs.
16 and 19).
(lian), 25.4; posterior edge of bony palate to hamular, 14; length of incisive foramen, 16; width of incisive foramina, 7; zygomatic breadth, 32; interorbital breadth (exclusive of supraorbital processes), 11.6; greatest breadth of brain case, 25.6 ; breadth of rostrum at base of zygomata, 18.8; greatest (diagonal) length of nasals, 18.4; greatest breadth across both nasals, 12.6; least breadth across both nasals, 8.
6 ; depth of brain case at anterior end of basioccii^ital, 21.4; diastema, 18; maxillary molar series (alveoli), 13; mandible, 48.6; diastema, 14; mandibular molar series (alveoli), 13.
Specimens Examined.
— Two, both from the type locality.
General Remarks.
— Lepus bachmani ubericolor .is a typical ' northwest-coast form,' differing from the Califoi'nian phase of the species in richer, more abundant pigmentation.
Subgenus SYLVILAGUS Gray.
In the absence of positive knowledge of the relationships of the cottontails, I have treated the four forms here described as subspecies of Lepus floridanus.
Lepus floridanus yucatanicus subsp.
nov. 1877.
Lepus aquaticus Allen, Monogr.
N. A. Kodentia, p. 365, (part).
Not of Bachiuan, 1837.
1890.
Lepus sylvatieus aztecics Allen, Bnll.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., iii, p. 191, December 10, 1890.
Not of Allen, ibid., p. 188.
Type adult 9 (skin and skull).
No.
|j;fH United States National Museum, collected at Merida, Yucatan, February 22, 1865, by A. Schott.
Original number, 207.
General Characters.
— Closely related to Lepus floridanus aztecus (Allen), from Tehuantepec, but larger and darker.
Skull with disproportionately large audital bullae.
Color.
— Back a uniform coarse grizzle of black and light buff, the latter slightly predominating.
On the sides and rump the buff becomes paler and the black less conspicuous, producing a very slightly paler grizzle.
Under fur on back bluish gray, becoming distinctly brownish at tip.
On the rump the basal color of the under fur is paler and the terminal half of the hairs (10 mm.)
becomes bright cinnamon rufous, imparting to the fur of the region a distinct reddish cast.
Tail (imperfect in the type, but complete in other specimens) white beneath, dull, grizzled, reddish brown above.
Nape patch clear bright cinnamon rufous.
Ears gray, on the outer surface blackening on the terminal fourth and along anterior edge.
Extreme anterior margin fringed with pale buff.
This border is continuous through whole jDeriphery of ear, but is broadest and composed of the longest hairs through lower anterior half.
Inner surface of ear thickly sprinkled with fine whitish hairs.
Crown of head slightly darker than back.
Cheeks paler than sides, but strongly shaded with black.
A conspicuous whitish area surrounding eye and broadening posteriorly to a width of about 10 mm.
Chin and upper part of throat dull white.
Chest and lower throat ochraceous bufT, darkened by a sparse sprinkling of black tipped hairs.
The hairs of this buft area are slightly lengthened to form an inconspicuous ruff.
Legs cinnamon rufous, the gray of the sides extending over most of outer side of thigh, but scarcely reaching below shoulder.
White of belly extending down inner side of hind leg and covering dorsum of pes.
On front leg it extends as a narrow band on inner side to carpus.
Belly dull white, strongly tinged with buff on chest.
Skull and Teeth.
— The skulls of Lepu-s floridanus yucatanicus average slightly larger than those of L. floridanus aztecus, and the zygomatic arches are relatively deeper and heavier.
Otherwise 1 can see no tangible differences in general form.
Audital bulla3 considerably larger and more inflated than in L. floridanus aztecu!<.
Mea,'^wements.
— External measurements of type : Total length, 430 mm.
(estimated, skin stretched); hind foot, 198; ear from crown, 71.
Average of five specimens, including the type: Total length, 412 (400-430); tail vertebra, 33.5 (33-34); hind foot, 92 (85-98); ear from crown, 78.5 (68-75).
These measurements are taken from badly prepared skius, and are only approximately reliable.
Cranial meaurements of type: Greatest length, 82 mm.
; basal .length, 64; basilar length, 62; henselion to posterior edge of bony palate (median), 33; least (lateral) length of bony palate, 7.8; posterior edge of bony palate to hamular, 17; length of incisive foramen, 21; width of incisive foramina, 9.4; zygomatic breadth, 39; interorbital breadth (inclusive of supraorbital processes), 20; greatest breadth of brain case, 29; breadth of rostrum at base of zygomata, 22.6; greatest (diagonal) length of nasals, 37; greatest breadth across both nasals, 16; least breadth across both nasals 25 10; depth of brain case at anterior end of basioccipital, 26; diastema, 23.6; maxillary molar series (alveoli), 14; mandible, 62; diastema, 19; mandibular molar series (alveoli), 14.6.
Specimens Examined.
— Six, all from the type locality.
General Remarhs.
— Lepus Jloridanus yucatanicus and L. flovidanus aztecus resemble each other rather closely, but differ in easily recognizable characters.
Lepxis floridanus aztecus is the smaller animal of the two, with blacker back, more buffy sides and clearer gray cheeks.
The cranial diffei*euces between the two forms are well marked.
It is highly probable that these red rumped animals are specifically distinct from Lepus floridanus.
Lepus floridanus subcinctus subsp.
nov.
Type adult ?
(skin and skull).
No.
l%\^^ United States National Museum, collected at Hacienda El Molino, near Negrete, Michoacan, Mexico, June 15, 1892, by P. L Jouy.
Original number, 415.
General Characters.
— Most like Lepus Jloridanu.
'< chapmani Allen, from Corpus Christi, Texas, but slightly larger, the ears longer, and color of under parts duller.
Color of sides strongly encroaching on dull white of bellv and almost dividing it immediately in front of hind legs.
Skull slightly larger than that of L. floridanus chapmani, but not appreciably different in form.
Color.
— Back a uniform grizzle of black and buffy white, the latter slightly predominating.
On the sides and rump the white becomes clearer and the black less conspicuous, thus producing a paler grizzle slightly contrasted with that of back.
Under fur on back light, bluish gray with scarcely noticeable brownish tips.
On rump the basal color is slightly paler and the tips of the hairs for about 5 mm.
are pinkish buff.
Tail, snowy white beneath, hair bi'own grizzled with whitish above.
Nape patch light cinnamon.
Ears uniform gray faintly tinged with buff on inner surface, and narrowly rimmed with blackish along external anterior border near tip.
Lower half of anterior border fringed with lengthened white hairs.
Crown of head like back, but slightly yellower.
Cheeks like sides of body, and distinctly shaded with black below and behind eye.
A whitish eye ring.
Chin and upper part of throat dull white, strongly darkened by the bluish gray bases of the hairs.
Chest an<l lower throat cream buff, darkened by a sparse sprinkling of black-tipped hairs as well as by the gray under fur; the hairs of the buff area lengthened to form an inconspicuous ruff.
This buff area extends backward to include front legs and form a narrow but distinct line of demarkation between color of sides and that of belly.
Legs ochraceous buff tinged with cinnamon on outer side and suffused with white on inner side and on upper side of feet.
Hind leg paler than frout leg.
Belly dull white, the white area much narrower than in the ordinary forms of the species, and nearly interrupted by an incomplete, dull buff girdle immediately in front of the hind legs.
Skull and Teeth.
— Except for its greater size, the skull of Lepu--> floridanm subeinetus does not differ appreciably from that of L. fioridanus chajimani.
Measurements.
— External measurements of type (from fresh specimen by collector): Total length, 434; tail yertebrte, 47; hind foot, 86; ear from crown, 76."
Average of three specimens including the type:' Total length, 423 (400-435); tail vertebrae, 43 (42-47); hind foot, 87 (86-88); ear from crown, 74 (71-76).
Cranial measurements of type: Greatest leugth, 76; basal length, 62; basilar leugth, 58; henselion to.
posterior edge of bony palate, 28; least (lateral) length of bony palate, 6; posterior edge of bony palate to hamular, 18; length of incisive foramen, 18; width of incisive foramina, 7.8; zygomatic breadth, 35; interorbital breadth (inclusive of supraorbital processes), 19; greatest breadth of brain case, 18; breadth of rostrum at base of zygomata, 20.4; greatest (diagonal) length of nasal, 34.8; greatest breadth across both nasals, 16; least breadth across both nasals, 9; depth of brain case at anterior end of basioccipital, 24; diastema; 20.4; maxillary molar series (alveoli), 14; mandible, 58; diastema, 17; mandibular molar series (alveoli), 12.
Specimens Examined.
— Three, all from the type locality.
General Remarks.
— Lej) us fioridanus subcindus, though closely related to L. fioridanus chapmani, is readily distinguishable bv its longer ears.
In color the two forms are essentially alike, but the Mexican animal is slightly more dull, especially on the belly.
On ' la the dry specimen the ear has shrunk to 70 mm.
* Four topotypes of Lepus fioridanus chapmani, measured in flesh by collector (ear excepted), average: Total length, 393 (390-400) ; tail vertebrae, 38.2 (37-40) ; hind foot, 79 (76-83) ; ear from crown, 55 (.52-57).
the other hand it has more gray in the rump, which is distinctly aler than the tail, while in L. floridanus chapmani rump and tail are of essentially the same color.
Lepus floridanus caniclunis subsp.
nov.
Type adult c?
(skin and skull), ^o.
63,137, United States National Museum, collected at Fort Clark, Texas, December 27, 1892, by Edgar A. Mearns.
Original number, 2,172.
General Characters.
— JJike Lepus floridanus chapmani Allen, but slightly paler throughout; sides, rump and upper surface of tail conspicuously paler, and white of belly pure and not encroached upon by color of sides.
Color.
— The color is so much like that of Lepus floridanus siibcinctus that no detailed description is necessary.
The pale band on the hairs of the back is very slightly lighter, but the black tips are considerably less abundant.
This is true throughout the dorsal and lateral surfaces.
Head and ears distinctly paler than in subcinctus.
Rump and tail conspicuously paler, the difference produced partly by a reduction in the number of black-tipped hairs, but more especially by lightening the brown terminal band of the under fur to ecru drab.
Throat ruff, slightly paler than in subcinctus.
White of belly clear and pure throughout, not in the least encroached upon by the color of the side?, as in the case of L. floridanus subciactu-i and L. floridanus chapmani.
Color of sides fading abruptly into that of belly without intervention of bufl lateral line.
Skull and Teeth.
— The skull of Lepus floridanus caniclunis is slightly smaller than that of L. floridanus subcinctus, but it differs in no way in form.
It is indistinguishable from the skull of L. fl.oridanus chapmani.
Measurements.
— External measurements of type (from fresh specimen by collector): Total length, 395; tail vertebrae, 52; hind foot, 87 ; ear from crown, 72.
Average of ten specimens from type locality: Total length.
382 (365-400); tail vertebrae, 57.8 (50-67); hind foot, 85.4 (80-90); ear from crown, 68.9 (64-72).
Cranial measurements of type (measurements in parenthesis are those of a topotype of L. floridanus chapmani, No.
2,982, American Museum of Natural History): Greatest^length, 66 (64.6); basal length, 54 (54); basilar length, 50 (50); henseliou to posterior edge of bony palate (median), 25 (25.4); least (lateral) length of bony palate, 5.8 (6.4); posterior edge of bony palate to hamular, 15.4 ( — ); length of incisive foramen, 16.4 (16) ; width of incisive foramina, 6.8 (7); zygomatic breadth, 33 (33); interorbital breadth (inclusive of supraorbital processes), 16.4 (17); greatest breadth of brain case, 27 (27); breadth of rostrum at anterior base of zygomata, 7.6 (9); greatest (diagonal) length of nasals, 29.2 (29); greatest breadth across both nasals, 14 (15) ; least breadth across both nasals, 8.4 (8.4); depth of brain case at anterior end of basioccipital, 22.8 (22.6); diastema, 18 (18); maxillary molar series (alveoli), 12.4 (12 4); mandible, 49 (49); mandibular molar series (alveoli), 13.6 (12.6).
Specimens Examined.
— Twelve, all from the type locality.
General Remarks.
— Lepus fioridanus caniclunis agrees with L. floridanm chapmani in its small size, but differs in much paler color — therefore in exactly the opposite direction from the dark L. floridanus alacer Bangs.
Its most striking peculiarity, as compared with its nearest allies, is its very pale rump and tail.
Lepus floridanus sanctidiegi subsp.
nov. Tijpe adult 9 (skin and skull), No.
60,668 United States National Museum, collected at monument No 258 (Pacific Ocean), Mexican boundary line, San Diego County, California, July 10, 1894, by Edgar A. Mearns.
General Characters.
— Like Lepus floridanus auduhoni Baird, but color paler throughout and belly pure white.
Ears probably longer than in true auduhoni.
Color.
— Back a uniform grizzle of black and light cream buff, the latter slightly predominating.
On the sides the buff becomes even paler, while the amount of black is noticeably reduced.
On the rump the buff fades abruptly to whitish gray, producing a small but well-defined pale rump patch.
Under fur on back light bluish gray, changing to dull wood brown at tip.
Long hairs of back bluish gray at base, darkening to nearly black close below broad subterminal cream buff band, and black at tip.
Tail dark brown above, the hairs inconspicuously paler tipped ; snowy white beneath.
Nape patch clear ochraceous buff, slightly more tawny than the figure given by Ridgway (Nomencl.
of Colors, pi.
v. fig.
10).
The nape patch is very large, extending back as far as the point reached by the tips of the ears, and even suffusing the fur for a short distance beyond.
It also extends on each side of the neck to angle of jaw.
Ears gray internally and externally, blackening at tip outside, and margined with whitish.
Lower half of ear distinctly paler than crown of head, and wholly without dusky shading.
Crown of head about like back, but more finely grizzled.
Cheeks slightly browner than sides of body, not darker posteriorly than anteriorly.
A dull whitish eye ring, nearly interrupted above and below.
Chin and upper part of throat white, faintly tinged with plumbeous.
Chest and lower throat cream buff.
Legs ochraceous buff, the white of belly extending to back of hind feet, and to wrists.
Dorsal surface of front feet cream buff.
Back of thighs suffused with cream buff.
Belly pure ^vhite, faintly tinged with plumbeous.
Sknll and Teeth.
— Having no skulls of Lepus jioridanus auduboni at hand, I am unable to compare that of the present race with its nearest relative.
As compared with that of L. floridantis holzneri (Mearns) the skull as a whole is slightly smaller, the brain case is relatively broader and shorter and the audital bullse are perct^ptibly larger.
Measurements.
— External measurements of type (from fresh specimen by collector) : Total length, 385 ; tail vertebrse, 63 ; hind foot, 85 ; ear from crown, 78.
Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 69; basal length, 56; basilar length, 52; hensehon to posterior edge of bony palate, 26; least (lateral) length of bony palate, 5.4; posterior edge of bony palate to hamular, 16.4; length of incisive foramen, 18; width of incisive foramina, 6; zygomatic bi-eadth, 33; interorbital breadth (inclusive of supraorbital processes), 19; greatest breadth of brain case, 25; breadth of rostrum at anterior base of zygomata, 16; greatest (diagonal) length of nasals, 29; greatest breadth across both nasals, 13.6; least breadth across both nasals, 8.4; depth of brain case at anterior end of basioccipital, 23; diastema, 18.4; maxillary molar series (alveoli), 12.8; mandible, 50; diastema, 15; mandibular molar series (alveoli), 13.6.
Specimens Examined.
— Twenty-five, all from the extreme southern part of San Diego County, California, and adjacent Lower California.
