DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF MEXICAN LAND AND FRESHWATER MOLLUSKS BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
During February March and April of this year Mr. and Mrs. S. N. Rhoads made a journey through parts of eastern and central Mexico their chief object eing zoological investigation and collecting.
Their researches were mainly confined to the States of Vera Cruz Mexico Michoaean anrl Nuevo Leon.
The mollusks collected especially thos3 from the State last named prove to be of considerable interest and a full report will be prepared later.
Meantime the following forms recognized as new may be described  Schazicheila fragilis n. sp.
Shell subglobose about the form of S. alata Mke.
 thin rather fragile reddish the spire conoidal whorls 4 the last rounded at the periphery impressed in the center below.
Sculpture of very numerous short cuticular spiral lirse.
Aperture semicircular slightly oblique with a very slight sinus above peristome thin .slightly expanded columellar callus thin and small.
Alt.
4.5 diam.
6 mm.
Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon INIexico.
Differs from S'.
alata and S. pauiiucea in the smaller size more fragile texture and the very much shallower notch at the upper termination of the outer lip.
It is a far smaller species than S'.
nicoleti Shuttl.
or S. hidalgoana Dall.
I do not know of any description of  S. minima Pfr. figured by Strebel on PI.
3 fig.
0 of the Beitrag Mex.
Landund SusswasserConchy lien Heft IV but the figures though insufficient for identification in the absence of text or locality look considerably like S. fragilis.
About twenty specimens were collected part of them quite fresh but without opercula.
Schaziclieila vanattai n. sp.
Shell thick lensshaped rather low conoid above convex below the strong peripheral carina reddish brown rather thin.
Whorls 4 the first red or corneous somewhat projecting the rest lut slightly convex more or less encrusted but showing no cuticular fringes merely very fine spiral lines in wellpreserved specimens the last whorl keeled throughout somewhat impressed in the center below.
Aperture slightly oblique semioval peristome thin slightly expanded with a small moderately deep sinus above.
Umbilical callus thin.
Operculum unknown.
Alt.
5.5 diam.
68 mm.
Alt.
4.3 diam.
6 mm.
Diente near Monterey with S. frag ills.
Distinct by its strong peripheral keel.
Named in honor of Mr. E. G. Vanatta whose assistance in the identification of the present collection is hereby acknowledged.
Valvata humeralis var.
patzcuarensis n. v. This name is applied to the form from Lake Patzcuaro noticed in my paper on the shells of the Academy Exjiedition these Proceedings 1891 p. 326.
It is larger far more robust and elevated than V humeralis  there is no angulation or shoulder on the upper surface of the whorls and the umbilicus is decidedly smaller.
V. drebeli C. and F. based upon V. humeralis Strebel differs in the less elevated and robust form larger umbilicus and judging from Strebel's figures the greater interruption of the circular aperture by the penultimate whorl.
A specimen of var.
patzcuarensis measures Alt.
5 diam.
5 length of aperture 2.5 width 2.4 mm.
Polygyra rhoadsi n. sp.
Shell depressed with very low conic almost flat spire and small cylindrical umbilicus Avhich at the last whorl opens widely in an arcuate rimation last IJ whorls ribstriate the ribs strong narrow separated by smooth intervals wider than themselves continuing on the base  spire smoother the first Ih whorls smooth.
Whorls slightly more than 5 moderately convex above slowly widening the last whorl decidedly wider very convex having the convex periphery situated above the middle of the whorl convexly slanting below the periphery subangular at the margin of the umbilicus within which there is a groove parallel to the rimation.
Behind the lip the suture is abruptly and rather deeply deflexed and the whorl is deeply constricted.
Aperture small.
subcircular nearly closed by the large teeth  peristome reflexed continuous in a raised callus across the jiarietal wall.
Teeih  parietal fold a large sinuous tonguelike process the lower ramus of which is erect the upper one rising in a point where it joins the upper termination of the lip the space between the branches concave outer lip bearing a strong concave callous rib ending below in a compressed tooth basal margin bearing a similar compressed tooth extending outward on the lip and separated from that on the outer lip by a deep sinus.
Alt.
4 diam.
10 mm.
 greatest width of the umbilicus 3 2 mm.
Topo Chico near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon Mexico.
Closely allied to P. implicata Beck with which it agrees in the general form and the armature of the aperture.
It differs from implicata in the strongly ribbed surface less convex base decidedly narrower central umbilical opening and greater deviation of the last whorl which differentiates the median opening from the rimation much more sharply than in P. impUcaia.
P. rhoadsi differs from P. oppllata in being larger with different sculpture and narrower umbilicus.
Polygyra suprazonata nsp.
Shell depressed subglobose with low conoid spire and very narroAV though deeply perforating umbilicus somewhat enlarged at its opening glossy slightly wrinklestriate finely malleated in places reddish brown paler around the umbilicus and with a wide whitish band above the periphery.
Whorls 5 those of the spire slowly increasing the last wider double the width of the preceding whorl abruptly deflexed in front rounded at the periphery and beneath deeply constricted behind the lip.
Aperture oblong very oblique with reflexed white peristome parietal fold a rather small oblique lamina recurved in a very short branch above  outer lip with a small tooth above which there is a strong concave rib basal lip bearing a small compressed tubercle and a slight thickening to the left of the tubercle.
Alt.
6.5 diam.
12 mm.
 width of umbilicus 1.5 mm.
Alt.
5.7 diam.
10.2 mm.
 width of umbilicus 1 mm.
Tzintzuntzan State of Michoacan.
This is one of the largest Mexican species.
It is allied to P. chiapensls Pfr.
and P. matermontana Pils. differing from the former in the distinct basal tooth biramose parietal lamina coloration etc. and from P. matermontana it differs in being more robust with far less open umbilicus and different coloration.
P. nelsoni Dall Nautilus xi p. 74 of which I have seen the types is another species of the same group.
Praticolella strebeliana n. sp.
Shell nari'owly umbilicated rather depressed thin uniform pale corneous having a dull sheen as if frosted caused by an excessively minnte roughening of the surface.
Spire low conic  whorls 4f  the first one glossy obtuse the rest slowly widening until the last which is decidedly wider moderately deflexed in front the periphery obtusely angular on the first half becoming rounded on the latter portion scarcely any constriction behind the lip but opaque there.
Aperture oblique wider than high shortly elliptical moderately excised by the parietal wall peristome expanded narrowly reflexed with a slight riblike thickening within margins approaching the basal regularly arcuate columellar margin a little dilated at the insertion slightly impinging on the narrow umbilicus.
Alt.
7.5 diam.
12 mm.
 aperture oblique alt.
5.7 width 7.2 mm. including peristome type.
Alt.
6.5 diam.
10.2 mm.
smallest adult specimen.
Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon Mexico.
Praticolella ampla Pfr.
 which is the nearest to this species differs in being far more globose with a roundedlunate aperture and more deeply arcuate basal lip somewhat as in Eulota similaris while this species has a transversely elliptical smaller aperture with far less arcuate basal lip and much more depressed bodywhorl.
P. berlandieriana and griveoa are not closely allied to the present species.
Pratieolella strebeliana is named in honor of Hermann Strebel one of the aljlest investigators of the Mexican molluscan fauna.
Numerous fresh specimens were collected but only one Avas found living.
Thysanophora proxima nsp.
Similar to T. conspureatella Morel.
 but with more elevated spire narrower umbilicus and far wider spaced oblique cuticular riblets.
Whorls 4 very convex the last well rounded.
Aperture somewhat oblique subrotund.
Alt.
2.8 diam.
3.7 mm.
Uruapam State of Michoacan Mexico.
 About twenty specimens were collected at the above locality by Mr. and Mrs. Rhoads.
Several immature shells of the same species were taken at Morelia Iichoacau and a few occurred at Patzcuaro and Huingo in the same State.
In Michoacan it seems to replace T. conqmrcatella of the more tropical region eastward.
T. impum Ytr.
and 2'.
hornii Gabb are closely allied species the former ditleriug in the absence of oblique cuticular lamina.
A Thijsanophora similar to T. cceca but more elevated was collected at Morelia lichoacau.
If the high contour is constant it probably indicates another subspecies at least but only one specimen was obtained.
Omphalina montereyensis n. p.
Shell about the size and general contour of 0. inornata depressed umbilicated the umbilicus about onetwelfth the diameter of the shell.
Surface glossy smooth with slight growthwrinkles but no other sculpture.
Whorls 5 rather flattened and slowl' increasing the last Avhorl very much wider more than double the width of the preceding one rounded at the periphery  rather flattened beneath.
Aperture oblique broadly lunate oval.
Alt.
H diam.
12 oblique height of aperture 5 width 6 mm.
Diente near Monterey State of Xuevo Leon Mexico.
Numerous specimens were collected.
It somewhat resembles 0. pamdensis Pfr. but is much more depressed.
Glandina rhoadsi n. sp.
Shell oblongfusiform rather thin glossy reddish brown with some slightly darker longitudinal streaks and whitish lines.
Surface weakly and rather unevenly striated longitudinally the strife stronger near the suture no spiral sculpture.
Spire elongated with slightly convex outlines apex obtuse whorls 7 to 8 the earlier ones regularly widening the later two or three more rapidly increasing sutures moderately impressed very slightly crenulated by the foldstrite not margined.
Last whorl somewhat compressed tapering below.
Aperture small rather narrow a little less than onehalf the total length of the shell in adult shells columella only weaklv concave.
Alt.
52 cliam.
18 length of aperture 24 mm.
Alt.
45 diam.
16 length of aperture 23 mm.
Alt.
42 diam.
14 length of aperture 21J mm.
Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon Mexico.
The last measurements are of a specimen not quite mature with 7 whorls.
It is somewhat like G. longula or G. singeyana but lacks any trace of spiral striation the suture is only weakly crenulated and not marginate.
It is smoother than G. liebmanni and G. audebarcU especially at the sutures and is of a more slender form.
Glandina dalli u. sp.
Shell thin slender turreted and slowly tapering above broadest near the base which is rather  saccate.
Brownish corneous slightly translucent smooth and glossy throughout except for rather separated very short impressed grooves below the sutures forming a series of very short low broad folds there and there are a few impressed sinuous longitudinal grooves reminiscent of former peristomes on the last whorl or two.
Spire long with very slightly convex lateral outlines and quite obtuse apex.
Whorls S slightly convex the last one compressed laterally and decidedly full below.
Aperture small very narrow above broad and slightly squarish below the outer lip thin vertical bent forward in the middle strongly retracted below giving the basal lip an effuse aspect.
Columella slwrt strongly concave and conspicuously truncated below.
Alt.
20 diam.
6.2 length of aperture 9.5 mm.
Alt.
18 diam.
6.3 length of aperture 9.5 mm.
Alt.
19 diam.
6.2 length of aperture 9.8 mm.
Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon Mexico.
Glandina dalli belongs to a small group of Mexican species of small size and smooth glossy surface but seems abundantly distinct from any hitherto described.
Compared with G. bellula C. and F. this species differs in being of narrower form with longer narrower aperture the posterior portion of which is more prolonged and much narrower also in the comparatively simple suture.
It is more lengthened than G. oblonga Pfr and less plaited at the sutures.
G. ambigua Pfr.
is stouter in form and G. conularisVtr.
has a wider aperture and far more arcuate outer lip.
Glandina michoacanensis n. sp.
Shell obesely fusiform rather thiu of a rather dark dull reddish color with an irregular pale sutural border.
Surface slightly shining coarsely and irregularly plicate and finely plicatulate longitudinally the foldlets conspicuously decussated cut into oblong grains the spirals becomiug obsolete at the extreme base.
Spire rather thick continuing stout above the apex obtuse.
Whorls 7 to 7 the earlier 2 smooth the next one evenly ribstriated the last whorl obloug rather obese tapering below.
Suture well impressed coarsely and irregularly denticulate.
Aperture rather small its length measured obliquely a little exceeding half that of the shell  outer lip gently convex  columella quite concave in adult straighter in immature specimens strongly truncated at base.
Alt.
48.5 diara.
20.5 longest axis of aperture 25.7 gi'eatest width 9.5 mm.
Uruapam State of Michoacan Mexico.
This species belongs to the first Plexce of the several sections formed by Dr. von Martens in his excellent account of the genus in the Blologia CentraliAmericana.
It might reasonably be supposed that so large a species from central Mexico would be known but a thorough search through the literature with the considerable collection of the Academy as a basis for comparison fails to locate the specimens within any of the numerous Mexican species hitherto described.
The dark reddish color and conspicuous sculpture are its more striking features.
Streptostyla novoleonis n. sp.
Shell cylindricobloug bluut at the ends dark reddish brown very glossy almost smooth the growthwrinkles being inconspicuous.
Spire short conic the apex obtuse.
Whorls 6 slowly increasing the latter half or threefourths of the last one very rapidly descending the last whorl generally suddenly deflexed at its termination.
Aperture very long and narrow  columella short rather thiu moderately twisted.
Alt.
17.2 diam.
7 length of aperture 12 mm.
Alt.
16 diam.
6.7 length of aperture 11.8 mm.
Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon Mexico.
Smaller than S. shuttleworthi and the varieties subordinated tliei'eto by Dr. von Martens short in the spire markedly cylindrical with the columella only weakly twisted.
The region around Monterey is very different in physical characteristics from that inhabited by S. shuttleworthi.
It is considerably further north than Streptodyla has heretofore been found.
Salasiella pfeifferi n. n. This name is proposed ior Achatina pulchella Pfr. P. Z. S. 1856 p. 379 not Achatina pulchella Spix 1827.
Dr. E. von Martens has figured the type Biologia CentraliAmericana Mollusca p. 83 pi.
5 f. 9.
Pseudosubulina berendti var.
occidentalis n. v. Numerous sjDecimens collected at Uruapam State of Michoacau represent a variety of the East Mexican P. berendti distinguished by the weaker less crowded ribstrise and wider aperture.
Alt.
15 diam.
3.2 oblique length of aperture 3 mm.
 whorls 12.
Alt.
12.7 diam.
2.8 oblique length of aperture 2.8 mm.
 whorls 11.
Pseudosubulina texoloensis n. sp.
Shell turreted imperforate faintly greenish yellow tinted composed of numerous short Avide whorls sculptured with closeset ribstrise separated by smooth slightly wider intervals outlines of spire decidedly concave above.
AYhorls 10 convex the ribs subobsolete on the base of the last one.
Apex obtuse the first whorl rapidly widening smooth the second becoming very finely ribstriate the next three whorls more coarsely ribbed scarcely increasing in width or in the diameter of the spire  following whorls gradually widening and increasing the diameter of the spire last whorl short moderately convex abruptly coutz'acting below.
Aperture ovatetrapezoidal  columella moderately concave abruptly truncated Achatinalike below.
Alt.
9.2 diam.
2.5 length of aperture 2 mm.
Texolo Falls State of Vera Cruz Mexico.
The shortness of the whorls and contraction of the upper part of the spire as in the young of many species of Urocopjtis are the more prominent features of this species.
The columella is much more strongly truncated than in P. berendti.
Generic position not verified.
Spiraxis uruapamensis n. sp.
Shell turretedconic decidedly tapering the lateral outlines a Httle concave above corneous with Avhite riblets apex obtuse.
Whorls 7 very convex separated by deeply impressed sutures  first half whorl smooth following whorl very finely lamellosestriate succeeding whorls with numerous delicate raised riblets about 42 in number on the penultimate whorl.
Aperture shortoval somewhat trapezoidal columella thick strongly sinuous.
Alt.
5.2 diam.
2 mm.
Uruapam State of Michoacan Mexico.
This species is more obtuse than S'.
svlciferus and its variety herendti has more convex whorls than S. tenuecostatus Strel.
 and is stouter than S'.
miradorensis Streb. with closer riblets.
S. tenuis is an allied form which should be compared.
Opeas patzcuarense ufp.
Shell minute slender obtuse at tlie apex slowly tapering rather cylindric or rodshaped.
Whitish corneous glossy and smooth showing slight sparse growth wrinkles under a lens.
AVhorls 7 moderately convex the last tapering at base.
Aperture long irregularly ovate columella straight vertical.
Alt.
3 diam.
0.8 ram.
Patzcuaro State of Michoacan Mexico.
A very small species unlike any other Mexican form known to me.
Numerous specimens were collected.
Opeas odiosum n. sp.
Shell slender turreted completely imperforate corneous sufficiently translucent to show the columella faintly through.
Surface glossy irregularly scored by unequally spaced longitudinal grooves and some slight wrinkles.
General outlines of the spire straight apex obtuse.
Whorls 8 the earlier strongly convex the last two slightly flattened.
Aperture ovate outer lip thin moderately arched forward columella slightly concave forming a distinct angle with the parietal wall.
Alt.
6.9 diam.
2 longest axis of aperture 1.5 mm.
Patzcuaro State of Michoacan Mexico.
The impressed grooves are similar in character to those of Vitrea indentata and other species of Glyphyalinia.
About forty specimens were collected.
Opeas rhoadsae n. sp.
Shell slender subulate wholly imperforate corneous and sufficiently translucent to show the internal axis through the shell in places.
Surface glossy sculptured with unequally spaced longitudinal grooves and showing a few slight growthAvrinkles in places.
General outlines of the spire straight.
Apex obtuse.
Whorls 9 to 9 the earlier ones quite convex the later four or five somewhat flattened.
Aperture small ovate the outer lip a trifle curved forward in the middle columella slender concave.
Alt.
7 diam.
1.9 longest axis of aperture 1.6 mm.
Alt.
7 diam.
1.7 longest axis of aperture 1.6 mm.
Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon Mexico.
Similar in sculpture and color to Opeas odiosum but perceptibly more slender in the spire with smaller apex.
These two species have the general form of Opeas subula but diflfer totally in sculpture they are also more brilliant and more transparent.
The columella is not at all twisted and there is no trace of a basal notch or truncation.
This species of which about fifteen specimens were obtained is named in honor of Mrs. Mary C. Rhoads.
Bifidaria prototypus n. sp.
Shell small subcyliudrical somewhat taperiug above brownish corneous thin.
Whorls 5 convex apex obtuse.
Aperture truncateoval peristome expandfd.
Teeth  the parietal bifid composed of two lamime that on the light running outward to the posterior termination of the outer lip more or less united at its inner end with the left lamina which is more deeply seated and enters deeply a rather high tooth at the middle of the columella and a similar but smaller and short denticle moderately remote from the lipedge at the junction of the outer with the basal walls of the aperture.
Usually there is a minute denticle above the lastdescribed denticle.
Alt.
2.5 diam 1 mm.
Huingo State of Michoacan Mexico.
This species has the general appearance of Pupa riipicola but differs markedly in dentition.
There are only two denticles within the outer lip none at the base of the columella.
The parietal armature illustrates clearly the origin of the bifid fold of the Bijidarke of the United States retaining the ancestral form more than any American species I have examined.
There are two folds one to the right and more emerging the other to the left and more deeply entering  the two more or less connected by a callus at the inner termination of the riht tooth.
Succinea tlalpamensis n. sp.
Shell pointedoblong fragile honey yellow or reddish somewhat translucent  stronglij finely and rather irregularly closely ivrinkled.
Spire slender acuminate whorls 2 very obliquely convoluted the last scarcely convex above.
Aperture very large ovate somewhat effuse at the base  columella with a white threadlike edge.
Alt.
15 diam.
8 longest axis of aperture 11.8 greatest width 7 mm.
Alt.
14 diam.
Sh longest axis of aperture 12 greatest width 7i mm.
Near Tlalpam State of Mexico Mexico.
Allied to S. retasa Lea ovalis Gld.
non Say and S. mlleana Pfr.
Compared with the former S. tlalpamensis has a decidedly larger aperture in proportion to the last whorl as viewed from the front.
The spire is longer and more slender than in S. salleana.
At Lake Cuitseo near Huingo State of Iichoacan a much smaller form was collected in Avhich the aperture is not so ample and less effuse below.
Two specimens measure  Alt.
10.8 diam.
5.5 longest axis of aperture 8 greatest width 4.7 mm.
Alt.
9.6 diam.
5.8 longest axis of aperture 7.7 greatest width 4.3 mm.
This may be called var.
cuitseana.
It has the same number of whorls as the type.
Physa osculans rhyssa n. var.
Smaller than typical P. osculans pale yellow corneous transparent and fragile with numerous slight longitudinal folds on the last whorl.
Saltillo State of Coahuila Mexico.
Sphaerium martensi n. sp.
A moderately large thin species showing no distinct prodissoconch at the beaks ovate moderately convex with median slightly prominent beaks the surface lusterless yellowish corneous finely and irregularly striated nearly smooth toward the beaks anterior end narrower symmetrically rounded  posterior end wider obscurely truncated obliquely  hinge line slightly convex  basal margin moderately convex.
Interior whitish in clean shells hinge delicate the left valve with a small erect compiessed caret dinal tooth with a lower very thin one above it aud slightly more posterior  'anterior lateral short erect thin and triangular  posterior lateral short and low.
Right valve with two subequal erect squarish cardinals one behind the other separated by a deep Vshaped notch laterals double the anterior very short the posterior longer low.
Length 15.5 alt.
11 diam.
7.6 mm.
Tzintzuntzan Lake Patzcuaro State of Michoacau Mexico.
This is a rather large species more fragile than those of the noncalyculate group in the Lnited States.
Compared with S. subtransverstim Prime which has the same general outline this species differs in the broader beaks Avhich do not show the prominent ' ' caps ' ' or prodissoconch of S. suhtransversuvi  the cardinal teeth are much thinner more compressed and the lateral laminse are less elevated.
It does not seem closely allied to any of the American species I have been able to compare with it.
1899.
403
