ON A COLLECTION OF BIRDS FROM THE VICINITY OF BOGOTA WITH A EEVIEW OF THE SOUTH AMERICAN SPECIES OF SPEOTYTO AND TROGLODYTES.
BY WITHER STONE.
Through the generosity of Dr. Samuel G. Dixon President of the Academy the institution has come into possession of a collection of birds made in 188889 by the late Dr. J. W. Detwiller in the vicinity of Bogota Colombia.
So many specimens have been obtained from this region that a list of the species adds but few to those ali'eady recorded in Bogota collections.
The fact however that these specimens with but few exceptions are marked with definite locahties renders them of greater importance as throwing some hght upon the distribution of the species.
The principal points at which specimens were obtained are Honda on the Magdalena river seventy miles northwest of Bogota Ambalema farther up the Magdalena about forty miles from Bogota Ibague ninety miles west on the slopes of the central Cordilleras and on the Nevada del Tolima about twenty miles west of Ibague.
A few were also collected at Villa Vicencia east of the eastern Cordilleras in the Territory of San Martin sixty miles southeast of Bogota and on the headwaters of the Meta a branch of the Orinoco.
The hst follows.
Unless otherwise stated only one specimen was secured and where no locality is mentioned the labels have been lost Merganetta columbiana DeMurs.
No exact data.
Belonopterus cayennensis Gmel..
Plain of Tolima.
Ortalis caracco Wagl..
Magdalena river February 5 1888.
Zenaida ruficauda Gray.
Plain of Tolima.
Speotyto cunicularia tolimae sub.
sp.
nov. Five specimens secured May 27 1889 ou the Plain of Tolima where they were breeding and had eggs at this date.
Type No.
35239 CoU.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 9.
March 27 1889.
Smaller and darker than any of the other forms of Speotyto with less white above approaching nearest to S'.
hrackyptera Richm. from Margarita Island Venezuela General ground color above dark Front's brown to almost sepia spots on margins of remiges mainly buff on coverts and scapulars white.
Forehead and throat pure white.
Five narrow buff bands on the tail and narrow buflf tips to the feathers.
The bars on the abdomen are somewhat broken and irregular and are dark brown edged narrowly with cinnamon.
Length of wing 6 ins.
There seem to be at least five races of Burrowing Owls in South America as follows  1.
S. cunicularia Molina.
Type locality Chile.
Distributed over the southern part of the continent from Chile and Uruguay southward.
It differs from all the more northern forms in ils larger size and in the large amount of white on the outer tail feathers.
In these the ground color is white with rather narrow brown cross bars.
S. patagoniea Peale and S. vriicurea Lesson I take to be synonyms of this form.
All the more northern birds that I have seen are smaller and darker with the ground color of the outer tail featheis brown marked with white spots on the sides.
These spots are sometimes nearly confluent into bands but the white never surjasses the brown in extent as in S. cunicularia.
2.
S. c. grallaria Spix.
Type loc Para Brazil.
Apparently agrees with the characters just given  thus differing from cunicularia.
I have been unable to examine S23ecimens of the Brazilian bird and am forced I0 rely upon descriptions so that I am unable to show in what respects this differs from the following.
From its geograpical range it is almost certainly distinct.
3.
S. c. nanodes Berl.
and Stolzm.
P. Z. S. 1892 p. 388.
Type loc Lima Peru.
This is the bird identified by Peale and Cassin as grallaria aud they have been followed provisionally by Ridgway.
On geographical grounds it is extremely doubtful that this is identical with the Brazilian form and I think the authors have done well to separate it.
The U. S. Exploring Expedition specimens are much bleached but otherwise agree with Berlepsch's description 4.
S. c. tolimae Stone.
Type loc. Tolima Colombia.
Smaller and darker than the last as above described.
In nanodes the white on the outer tail feathers generally extends across as distinct bands and the brown bands are of nearly uniform width throughout.
In tolimic however the brown bands are wider in the middle and confluent along the shaft separating the white into rounded spots.
On the middle tail feathers the buff cross bands are extremely narrow in tolimce .10.
12 in.
 and do not reach the outer margins of the feathers while in nanodes they are broad .2025 in.
 and extend to the margin.
5.
S. brachyptera Richm.
Type loc Margarita Isl. Venezuela.
An island form allied to the last.
Megascops brasilianus Gmel..
Honda March 27 1889.
Rupornis magnirostris Gmel.
Honda and Ibague.
Falco sparverius sequatorialis Mearns.
Two specimens.
Plains of Tolima.
Brotogerys jugularis Miill.
Pionus menstruus L..
Ambalema.
Psittacula conspicillata Lafr.
Villa Vicencia Llanos San Martin and Ainbalema.
Diplopterus naevius L..
Ibague.
Momotus aequatorialis Gould.
Ibague Rio Combeima.
Momotus subrufescens Scl.
Ambalema and Houda.
TTrospatha martii Spix.
Houda March 17 1889.
Aulacorhamphus castaneorhynchus Gould.
Rio Combeima above Ibague.
Galbula ruficauda Cuv.
Honda and Ambalema.
Nine specimens.
helidoptera tenebrosa Vieill.
Villa Viceucia Llanos San Martin.
This capture extends the Avestward range of this bird materially and indicates how closely the Venezuelan fauna of the Orinoco valley approaches Bogota which lies in the highlands just over the eastern Cordilleras.
Bucoo ruficoUis Wagl..
Picumnis olivaceus Lafr.
Ibague.
Two specimens.
Melanerpes cruentatus Bodd.
Villa Vicencia Llanos San Martin.
Trogcn collaris Vieill.
Nevada del Tolima Rio Carabeima.
Two specimens.
Pharomacbarus pavoninus Spix.
Nevada del Tolima.
Two specimens.
Hemiprocne zonaris Shaw.
Island on Magdalena river near Ambalema Apriri2 1889.'
Nyctidromus albioollis Gm..
Honda March 29 1889.
Rhamphomicron heteropogon Briss.1.
Eriocnemis smaragdinipectus Gould.
Cyanopbaia goudoti Bourc.
Ibague.
20 Metallura tyriantliina Bodd..
Lesbia victoriae Bourc.
and Muls..
Petasphora iolata Gould.
Aglaeactis cupreipennis Bourc.
and Muls..
Thalurania columbica Bourc.
Ibague.
Damophila juliae Bourc.
Ibague.
Kupicola peruviana Lath..
Nevada del Tolima.
Manacus manacus abditivus Bangs.
Honda.
Todirostrum cinereum L..
Ochtboeca fumicolor Scl.
Leptopogon superciliaris Cab.
Milvulus tyrannus L..
Honda March 17 1889.
Legatus albicollis Vieill..
Ambalema April 6 1889.
Sayornis nigricans Swains..
Ibague.
Pyrocephalus rubineus Bodd..
Ambalema.
Six specimens.
April 1216 1889.
Thamnophilus multistriatus Lafr..
A typical male specimen from Antioquia.
Also a female without locality which resembles it exactly in size of bill and general proportions but is uniform rufous above lighter beneath Avith a lighter collar on the hind neck obscurely streaked with black  sides of face similarly streaked throat whitish.
It looks very much as if this was the female of this species though it is said to be barred below in the British Museum Catalogue.
Dendroplex picirostris Lafr.
Ambalema April 12 1889.
Synallaxis subpudica Sclater.
Ambalema April 12 1889.
Scytalophus griseicoUis Lafr..
Icterus giraudi Cass.
lb ague.
Hypopyrrlius pyrohypogaster De Tarr.
Nevada del Tolima.
Two specimens.
Ostinops salmonii Scl.
Rio Combeima Nevada del Tolima.
Ostinops decumanus PalL.
Honda Rio Guali and Rio Combeima Nevada del Tolima.
Embernagra conirostris.
Ambalema April 8 1889.
Phrygilus unicolor geospizopsis Bp..
Sporophila minuta L..
Honda March 29 1889.
Sycalis flaveola L..
Eutheia Mcolor L..
Ibague.
Two specimens.
Rhamphocelus icteronotus Bp.
Ibague.
Rhamphocelus jacapa L..
Villa Vicencia Llanos San Iartin April 9 1888.
Bhamphocelus dimidiatus Lath.
Ambalema and Ibague April 816 1889.
Calospiza cyaneicoUis granadensis Berl.
Ibague.
Two specimens.
Calospiza vitriolina Cab..
Ibague.
Calospiza labradorides Boiss..
Ibague.
Calospiza aurulenta Lafr.
Ibague.
Calospiza gyroloides Lafr..
Ibague.
Dubusia taeniata Boiss..
Buarremon pallidinucha Boiss..
Arremon spectabilis Sol.
Honda March 21 1889.
Piranga rubra L.Honda March 21 1889.
Conirostrum rufum Lafr.
Heleodytes nuchalis Cab..
Two specimens without locality have the sandy tint on the nape and thus differ from H. pardus Scl. the Colombian form indicating that the latter may be as suggested Brit.
Mus.
Cat. vi p. 204 only an individual variation of nuchalis. Troglodytes striatulus Lafr.
Honda two specimens.
Troglodytes columbse sp.
nov.
Type 35354 Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Vicinity of Bogota.
It is with some hesitation that I add another to the long hst of names proposed for South American Wrens but this is so different from any described form that there seems no alternative.
This bird is nearest to T. striatulus but is darker and more olive brown above without a trace of the rufous tints so characteristic of South American species of Troglodytes.
T. striatulus is practically without rufous tints but the feathers of the rump or upper tail coverts as well as the tail are lighter and incline to rufous or yellowish brown.
There is no trace of this however in T. columhoi both rump and tail being dark olive brown.
The black bands on the tail are rather more irregular than in striatulus and those on the back are a little more pronounced.
The under surface is quite as different from T. striatulus as are the upper parts it is uniform ochraceous or vinaceous from the chin to the vent without a trace of white and no trace of fulvous on the flanks which are uniforna in ground color with the rest of the lower surface.
The sides and flanks are shaded with olive brown and obscurely banded.
The under tail coverts are buffy with a slight rufous tinge and are strongly barred with black.
The bars do not quite reach the edges of the feathers and are connected down the shaft.
The sides of the head are almost exactly like T. striatulus but with the ground color darker.
Length of wing 2.15 ins.
This is the darkest Troglodytes that I have seen from South or  It is possible this as well as some others of the unlabelled specimens came from Cartagena.
See pp.
31213.
Central America and can be recognized at a glance from any of the other species.
Though its dark under surface makes it appear very different from the whitethroated and whitebellied T. striatulus it is evidently most closely allied to that species.
Unfortunately the label has been lost from the specimen so that the exact locality is unknown.
The identification of this bird involved a study of all the South and Central American species of Troglodytes and an examination of the specimens in the collections of the Academy and the U. S. National Museum the latter having been kindly loaned me for the purpose.
While the material is insufficient for a monograph the results of the investigation may be of value to those engaged in studying this rather perplexing group.
The tropical American species of Troglodytes may at once be separated into two groups those with distinct superciliaries sharply defined against the color of the head and those with superciliaries indistinct.
The first are not difficult and stand as given in the British Museum Catalogue Vol.
vi p. 248.
The other group is much more confusing.
From southern Mexico to Panama south of the range of T. aedon and its races we have a Wren with rufoustinted rump and tail and vinaceous below with under tail coverts strongly barred with black white and vinaceous.
This is T. intermedins Cab.
in Nicaragua and northern Costa Rica type loc San Jose and T. inquietus Baird in Costa Rica and Panama type loc Panama the more southern form differing in larger size.
The two are however so close that it seems undesirable to separate them.
In the vicinitv of Bogota we fiud a totally different bird T. striatulus which compai'ed with the preceding is olive brown instead of reddish brown above and much hghter beneath being pure white on the throat and middle of the abdomen.
The under tail coverts are banded with black and white.
Next to this comes the very much darker T. columbe Stone above described.
The rest of South America is inhabited by various races of one wideranging form all of Avhich are peculiar in their strongly rufous tail contrasting with the browner tint of the back and the strongly rufous under tail coverts and thighs the former with the bars much reduced and sometimes nearly wanting.
Many names have been proposed for the birds of this group of which the following seem to be recognizable.
1.
Troglodytes musculus Naum.
Vogel's Deutschland 1823.
T. furvus Wiedii Berl.
T. platensis Wied.
Distribution  Brazil Ai'gentine and Uruguay type loc Bahia Brazil This is the darkest form with obscure bars of blackish on the back always present.
Under surface vinaceous darker and inclining to rufous on the flanks and under tail coverts but not nearly so tawny as in the westcoast races.
Under tail coverts barred or distinctly spotted with black in direct contrast to the nearly uniform rufouscoverts of the western races.
This bird has been frequently called T. furvus Gm.
 but I agree with Sharpe and Allen in the impossibility of satisfactorily identifying the  Brown Warbler  of Brown's Illustrations of Zoology upon which Gmelin based his name.
Berlepsch seems to have regarded the Guiana bird rufulus as true  furvtis and renamed this form T. f. Wiedii claiming that although Wied' s description of T. platensis is unquestionably this form it is not Sylvia platensis Lath. which he quotes T. musculus Naum antedates Berlepsch' s name and must of course be adopted 2.
Troglodytes musculus rufulus Cab.
Schomb. Reis.
Guian. iii p. 672 1848.
T. tobagensis Lawr.
Distribution.
 Guiana Venezuela and N. E. Colombia type loc Roraima Guiana.
This is a lightcolored race banded on the back as in T. musculus but much paler and sometimes quite white below.
3.
Troglodytes musculus rex Berl.
andLeverk.
Distribution.
 Eastern Bolivia type loc Samarpata A pale form of musndus.
4.
Troglodytes musculus hornensis Less..
T. rosaceus Less.
T. pallida Lafr.
and d'Orb.
T. magellanicus Gould.
Distribution.
 Chile and Patagonia The Wrens of the Pacific coast of South America are paler than true musculus and are generally without bars on the back and with the under tail coverts nearly or quite uniform tawny the flanks and rump are also much more conspicuously tawny and the whole plumage paler.
The specimens I have examined from Patagonia and Chile are darker than those from Callao Peru which seem to be T. m. audax.
If this determination is correct then T. m. audax is the lightest colored most rufous of the genus and T. hornemU is intermediate between that and T. musculus.
If hornensis and audax are both based on palecolored birds then they may have to be regarded as synonyms and T. magellanicus revived for the darker more southern birds T. hornemis is usually described as very pale and rufous in which case I cannot separate it from T. audax of Callao.
Sharpe Cat.
Bds. vi p. 207 seems to regard T. audax as not determinable if this vicAV is followed then probably hornensis and magellanicus should be adopted as above.
The darker Chilean birds which I here regard as T. hornensis are lighter than musculus with more tawny tail under tail coverts with but few spots and back without bars.
5.
Troglodytes musculus audax Tschudi.
Distribution.
 Coast of Peru type loc Peru.
Palest of the group rump flank and tail very bright tawny and dark bars on the tail indistinct and suffused with the prevailing tawny tint.
No bars on the back.
6.
Troglodytes musculus tecellatus Lafr.
and d'Orb..

T. murinus Less.
Distribution.
 Peru type loc Tacna.
This is a darker bird with distinct cross bars on the back differing in this respect from all the other transAndean forms.
From musculus it differs in being much more rufous both above and below.
The tail is very distinctly barred with black presenting a very different appearance from that of T. audax.
Mr. Kidgway states that the specimens in the Lafresnay collection labelled as the types of this species are in reality T. brunneicollis of Mexico.
The labels must have been confused however as the description is certainly not from that bird.
7.
Troglodytes musculus puna Berl.
and Stolz..
Distribution.
 Highlands of Peru type loc Queta.
Larger than T. miisculus and color below not at all rufescent.
Under tail coverts with very few spots.
8.
Troglodytes musculus albicans Berl.
and Tacz..
Distribution.
 Ecuador type loc Guaquil.
Throat and middle of abdomen pure white paler and grayer above than mmculm and sides more rufescent.
The last two and T. m. rex I have not seen and am therefore in much doubt as to the forms fi'om Peru Ecuador and Bolivia.
If tecellata puna and audax all occur in Peru and are perfectly separable they must occupy very different geographic areas.
The confusion of the tropical American Wrens in the published works is very perplexing.
The Biologia Centrali Americana recognizes but two forms of the group here treated i. e. T. intermedins of Central America and T. furmis of South America
The British Museum Catalogue is much better but it is difficult to imagine how Dr. Sharpe can unite the AVrens of Panama and Bogota under T. striatulm and separate T. intermedius.
The Panama birds which I have seen are scarcely distinguishable from T. intermedius while the true striatulus from Bogota is very different.
Cinclus leuconotus Lafr.
Bogota January 5 1889.
Mimus gilvus Vieill.
Plain of Tolima.
Merula ignobilis Sclater.
Rio Totare Plain of Tolima and Ibague.
Merula gigas Frazer.
Bogota March 28 1888.
A few specimens were obtained by Dr. Detwiller on the north coast of Colombia near Cartagena.
These are as follows Chrysolampis moschatus L..
Four specimens.
Cyanophaia goudoti Bourc.
Three specimens doubtfully referred to this species.
They are a little smaller than the specimen from Ibague mentioned above which is evidently an adult male and also differ in having the lower part of the abdomen and flanks grayish white and the back more bronze tinted one specimen especially showing brilliant coppery reflections.
The under tail coverts are greener than in the Ibague specimen which is exactly the reverse of the supposed females described in the British Museum Catalogue xvi p. 235.
While these may be females or yoimg of C. goudoti it seems quite likely that they represent a northern race of this bird.
Synallaxis candaei Lafr.
and d'Orb.
Base of La Popa Cartagena January 23 1888.
Arremon schlegeli Bp.
Twothirds up La Popa 600 feet elevation Cartagena January 23 1888.
Coereba luteola Cab..
Base of La Popa Cartagena January 23 1888.
314 1899.
