ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA.
III.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The Japanese fauna is proving very prolific in Clausilia.s, and may yet rival the richer portions of Eastern Europe in degree of specific differentiation.
It is obvious that until much more merely descriptive work is done, no sound generalization upon the Japanese species is possible.
I have therefore been satisfied to add to the accumulation of facts which can tell their story only when collections from many more localities come to our hands.
Many of the species of Clausilia seem to be of restricted geographic distribution.
Thus, the fauna of southern Hondo, Shikoku and Awaji seems to have but few Clausilife in common with the Xikko region.
The fruitful researches of ^Ir.
Y. Hirase now enable me to add several species to the fauna of Shikoku Island, and a remarkable Euphcedusa to the Hokkaido fauna, the first Clausilia known from that island.
Moreover, he has discovered a very remarkable modification of the Euphivdusan type, C. mikado, in the region of Lake Biwa.
In a former paper I described two species, C. Hirasei and C. hyj)eroplyx, remarkable among Asiatic Clausiliie for their complicated internal armature.
It is now proposed to erect a section for the I'cceptiou of these species.
Section ZAPTYX nov. Clausilium tongue-shaped, about twice as long as wide, with subparallol lateral margins, the apex much thickened on the columellar side ; posteriorly emarginate oi' auriculate on both sides of the filament or on the columellar side only; straight distally, but abruptly and strongly curved near the filament.
Shell small, the superior lamella widely separated from the spiral lamella; a fulcrum and parallel lamella developed; sutural plicse present; upper palatal plica iudependent from or united with the well-developed lunella; no lower palatal plica.
Type C. Hirasei Pils.
Distribution: Southern Kiusiu and the Loo Choo Islands.
The general shape of the clausilium is somewhat Hemiphsedusoid, but the abruptly bent and emarginate posterior end and heavily thickened apex differ strikingly from those parts in the clausilium of Hemiphredusa.
In C. Hirasei the clausihum (PI.
XXV, figs.
33, 34) is biemarginate behind.
In C lujperoptijx the columellar side only is distinctly emarginale.
Section EUPH^DUSA Bttg.
( Group of C. shanghaiensis. )
Clausilia comes n. sp.
PI.
XXIV, figs, l, 2, 3.
Shell small, rimate, slenderly fusiform, rather weakly striate, the last whorl with delicate rib-striae ; olivaceous brownish.
Apex slightly obtuse.
Whorls 9, strongly convex, separated by deep sutures.
Aperture not oblique, pyriform, with a distinct sinulus above, the peristome white, expanded and subreflexed, scarcely thickened.
Superior lamella rather small, though rather higher than in C. digonoptyx, diconnected from or barely continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella converging strongly toward the superior, though somewhat less so than in C digonoptyx, strongly spiral Avithiu.
Subcolumellar lamella immersed very deeply.
Principal plica short and small, wholly lateral.
Lunella shaped as in C aculus, but so slight as to be all but imperceptible except at the ends, which appear as small, short, irregular, upper and lower palatal folds.
Clausilium of the typical form for Euphcedusa, short and wide, broadest distally, strongly curved, moderately thickened at the apex, the columellar side emarginate behind (PI.
XXV, figs.
35, 36).
Alt.
10, diam.
2.3 mm.
Kashima, Harima (Mr. Y. Hirase).
Belonging to the little group of C. aculus, digonoptyx and tau, this form is smaller and deficient in palatal armature.
C. aculus, which probably does not occur in Ja^^an north or east of Kiusiu, has a less developed superior lamella.
In C. digonoptyx the lamellse converge more, the lunella is better developed, and the striation is stronger.
C. tau is a widely distributed species with long upper palatal plica and stronger lunella, etc.
Clausilia monelasmus n. sp.
PI.
XXiv, figs.
4, 5, 6.
Shell rimate, slender, fusiform, strongly striate, brown.
Apex rather acute, but the nuclear whorl is somewhat swollen; spire attenuated above.
Whorls 8^ to 9, quite convex, the sutures well impressed, the last whorl narrower than the penultimate.
Aperture hardly oblique, pyriform, with rather indistinctly defined, retracted sinulus.
Peristome thickened, expanded, continuous, white.
Superior lamella wanting, represented by a slight thickening of the peristome at its position; spiral lamella arising so far within that it is not visible from the aperture, but becoming high and continued to the ventral side, being longer within than the other lamelhe.
Inferior lamella obsolete below, not emerging, but high within, as in C. digonoptijx.
Subcolumellar lamella deeply iinmersed.
Principal plica very short and small, lateral.
Upper palatal plica strong, its lower end bent downward ; lunella wanting; lower palatal plica short, well developed.
Clausilium (PI.
XXY, figs.
26, 27, 28, 29) short and broad, strongly curved, not emarginate behind, and only slightly thickened apically.
Alt.
10.5, diam.
2.3 mm.
Kayabe, Ojima (Mr, Y. Hirase).
This is the first Clausilia to be made known from Hokkaido (Yesso), to my knowledge.
It occurred with a small Hemiphoidum.
It is remarkable for the obsolete condition of the superior lamella, the deeply immersed spiral lamella and the wide interruption of the lunella, the remaining ends of which appear merely as upper and lower palatal folds.
A white line may be seen on the parietal wall, on looking into the aperture, caused by the subcolumellar lamella showing through.
( Group of C. jos. )
Clausilia iotaptyx n. sp.
PI.
XXV, figs.
7, 8, 0.
Shell rimate, turrited, the penultimate whorl widest, those above nearly regularly tapering, then becoming almost cylindrical, the apex obtuse; rather solid, finely striate, a little more coarsely so on the back of the last whorl.
Whorls nearly 11, but slightly convex, the last compressed.
Aperture hardly oblique, ovatepyriform, the peristome well expanded, slightly thickened, whitish, a little eraarginate above.
Sinulus high.
Superior lamella rather small, oblique, contiguous to the spiral lamella.
Infei'ior lamella deeply placed, but continued and emerging upon the peristome, straightened within and giving off a branch toward the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging, and with the inferior lamella, continued to the margin.
Principal plica strong and long, nearly reaching the lip, and extending inward well beyond the lateral lunella.
Palatal plici^e two, short, the upper parallel with the principal plica, the lower one oblique, a straight lunella connecting them, inserted near the middle of each, and with the plicae forming an I-like figure.
Clausilium (PI.
XXV, fig.
40), trapezoidal-oblong, not much curved, somewhat thickened at the sides, and especially thick on the columellar side near the apex, strongly emarginate posteriorly on the columellar side.
It is shaped very much like that of C. mikado.
Alt.
18, diam.
3.8, longest axis of aperture 3.6 mm.
Alt.
16.3, diam.
3.3 mm.
Ibuki, Omi (Mr. Y. Hirase).
A solid, opaque species, with peculiarly thick though attenuated spire.
The clausilium seems far too thick at the end for a Hemiphcedusa, though it is more elongate than usual in Euphcedum, being a good deal like that of C. mikado; and as in that species the superior and inferior laraelke are very widely separated, even "within.
Viewed from the back, in a specimen broken open, the inferior lamella is but very weakly spiral, much as in many Hemiphadusas, and is thickened below.
The spiral and subcolumellar lamellae both enter very deeply and equally, while in Euphcedum the spiral lamella should extend inward beyond the other, according to Dr. Boettger, confirmed by the species I have examined.
This point is not very reliable perhaps, for in two specimens of C. mikado opened, one has the spiral lamella distinctly longer, the other has the inferior a little longer.
I fear, therefore, that the sectional position of this species must be left in uncertainty.
I place it in Boettger' s Formenkreis von C. jos, of Euphcedusa, but probably it belongs elsewhere.
Compared with the Hemiphcedusa species, C. iotaptyx is nearest to C. aurantiaca ; but the closing apparatus is lateral, the superior lamella is very low inside (while in C. aurantiaca it is high), and the spire is thick and clumsy above.
The lunella and associated palatal plic?e are much as in C. aurantiaca, but the clausilium denies C. iotaptyx entrance in any group of Heraiphcedma.
Section TYRANNOPH.EDUSA nov. Many-whorled, with distinct sinulus, deeply placed inferior lamella, very remote throughout from the superior lamella, the clausilium narrower than in Eupheedum, tapering and ol)lique at the much -thickened apex.
Other characters as in the C jos group of Eaphcedusa.
I propose this section for the following remarkable species: Clausilia mikado n. sp.
ri.
XXIV, fife's.
10, 11, 12.
Shell rimate, the lower half swollen, upper half exceedingly attenuated ; livid gray, becoming dull red where worn, and overgrown with alga in most specimens seen.
Sculptured with crowded, very fine striae, on the last two whorls becoming very much coarser, last whorl rather irregularly ribstriate.
Apex obtuse and globose; tvhorh 18, the earlier 8 or 10 not increasing in diameter, even decreasing a little; the next few whorls gradually, slowly increasing, the last 4 whorls forming the rather swollen lower half of the shell's length; last whorl decidedly higher than the preceding, tapering, compressed at the sides.
Sutures impressed.
Aperture small, oblique, retracted above and below, irregularly pyriform, the sinulus strongly developed, high and narrow; peristome white, expanded and thickened, continuous, emarginate above, where it is built out far beyond the whorl.
Superior lamella marginal, vertical, well developed, continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella not visible in a front view, deeply immersed, continuing very distant from the superior lamella within, but giving off a low branch toward it.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging, sometimes continued to the margin of the peristome, and more or less distinctly bounded by grooves.
Principal plica strong and long, extending nearly to the lip, and inward to the ventral side of the whorl.
Upper and lower palatal plicre short, oblique and parallel, connected by a nearly straight, narrow, rather weak lunella, which, however, is hardly connected with the upper palatal, and is lateral in position.
Clausilium (PI.
XXV, figs.
87, 38, 3y) strongly thickened at the sides and end, and especially along the columellar margin near the apex (fig.
38), abruptly emarginate on the columellar side posteriorly, the apex oblique, angular at the outer-lower or palato-apical extremity, rounded at the inner-lower or columellar-apical part.
Alt.
23, diam.
3.5, longest axis of aperture 0.5 mm.
Ibuki, Omi (Mr. Y. Hirase).
Remarkable for its mauy-whorled, slender spire, solute aperture and peculiar elausilium.
This species is the first one of its kind to be made known, and is one of the most remarkable of Mr. Hirase' s discoveries.
Section STEREOPH^EDUSA Bttg.
Clausilia oostoma Molldff.
C. oostoma Molldff., Journ.
Asiat.
Soc.
Beng., LI, pt.
2, p. 4, PL 1. fig.
2 (1882).
C. jnponica var.
sururjce Pils., Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1900, p. 447, PI.
14, fig.
4.
In my former paper on Japanese Clausilias I did not recognize this species in my C. japonica var.
surugce.
I am now satisfied that my variety is identical with the form defined by von Moelleudorff.
Clausilia brevior var.
addisoni nov.
Larger than C. brevior, alt.
16-18^, diam.
4^ mm., more coarsely striated, especially on the last whorl; three palatal plicae only.
This form I at first considered to be the var.
tetraptyx Mlldff^., having received but one specimen from Mr. Hirase.
A large series in the collection of Mr. Addison Gulick shows it to be distinct.
It is viviparous.
Kagashima, Satsuma, in southern Kiusiu (Gulick coll.).
Clausilia hondaua n. sp.
PL XXIV, figs.
13-lS.
Shell rimate, fusiform, dark brown, sculptured with fine but sharp striiB, which are sometimes perceptibly coai'ser on the back of the last whorl ; apex globose, the first three whorls of about equal diameter, second whorl higher than the third.
Whorls 10^ to 11|-, the last compressed laterall ^'.
Aperture but little oblique, a trifle retracted above and below, pyriform or quadi'angularpyriform, the sinulus high and well defined; peristome rather widely reflexed, somewhat thickened, continuous, the upper margin shortly free and slightly or not emarginate.
Superior lamella subvertical, compressed, continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella transversely converging to the other, strongly 44 spiral within, not emerging upon the lip, Subeolumellar lamella emerging, nearly or quite attaining the margin.
Principal plicae rather long; palatal plicre seven or fewer, the upper two curved, diverging forward from the principal, longer than the others except the lower one.
Clausilium strongly cu^'ved, short, broader and thickened distally, emarginate posteriorly on the columellar margin (PI.
XXV, figs.
42, 43, 44).
Alt.
21, diam.
4.5, longest axis of aperture 4.6 mm.
Alt.
18, diam.
4, longest axis of aperture 4 mm.
Boshiu ; Suruga coast (F. Stearns).
This species stands between C oostoma and C. brevior in size, and has tlie slender apical whorls and therefore concave-sided spire of the latter, which differs in being more obese with a difi^erentshaped aperture.
It is probably nearest to C nikkoeiuis Mlldff.
, but that species, from the description, must be even more slender and with the inferior lamella reaching the margin of the peristome, Avhich is not at all the case in C. hondana.
Were it not for this differential feature I would not distinguish my shells from Dr. von Moellendorfl's species.
The clausilium is much like that of C. brevior.
Of five specimens opened, no two quite agree in the palatal folds, and some are so different that one could scarcely believe them variations of one species were not all the other characters, including the clausilium, quite identical in the series.
The following variations occurred: (a) Palatal plicse seven, as above described (figs.
13-15).
(6) Palatal plicii} three, two above, one below, the third, fourth, fifth and sixth wanting (fig.
18).
(c) Palatal plicse four, the lower and two upper undiminished, the third small, a foldless space below it (fig.
17).
(d) Palatal plicie three, a very low but distinct, straight luuella running from the second to the lower plica (fig.
16).
These variations seem enough to make several species of, but I feel confident that they belong to one species.
Specimens a and b are from Boshiu, c and d from Suruga.
Clausilia subjaponica n. si>.
General appearance of C. japonica Crosse.
Whorls 12 to 13^, the apex very obtuse, not tapering as in japonica, and the attenuated portion of the spire is thicker.
Aperture with thickened, reflexed peristome, the superior lamella separated by a hiatus from the spiral lamella; subcolumellar lamella emerging, runuiug to the margin.
Principal plica short, extending but slightly or not at all inward beyond the upper palatal plica.
Palatal plicte four, the upper quite long, the lower bow-shaped or arched, the two ends bent downward ; the two intermediate plicse short.
Clausilium narrower than in C. japonica, the palatal margin obliquely sloping toward the apex, which is thickened and obtusely rounded; columellar margin slightly excised or subemarginate near the filament, or merely tapering there.
Length 28, diam.
6 mm.
Length 28, diam.
5h mm.
Length 23, diam.
5i mm.
Ibuki, Omi (Mr. y" Hirase).
The shell does not differ strongly from C. japonica, certain forms of which have the superior and spiral lamellie disconnected, and sometimes there are four palatal plicre; but the shaj^e of the lower palatal plica or fold is different, it being short and oblique in C. japonica, not arched as in this species.
The shape of the clausilium, however, is strikingly unlike in the two species, that of G. japonica {-\nipjjonensis + kohensis) being constantly broader, with pointed apical end, in specimens examined from some fourteen localities.
This will be suitably illustrated in a future communication, as the space on my plates does not allow figuring at this time.
Section HEMIPH.EDUSA Bttg.
(^ Group of C.
validiuscula.)
Clausilia Nolani n. sp.
PI.
XXV, figs.
19, 20, 21.
Shell rimate, fusiform, attenuated above, sohd, of a darkbrown color; distinctly but finely striate.
Whorls 10, moderately convex, separated by impressed sutures, the outlines of the spire somewhat concave above; last whorl a little compressed.
Aperture squarish-ovate, hardly oblique; sinulus sliort, retracted; peristome brownish, expanded, subreflexed and thickened, continuous and free above, and slightly or not emarginate there.
Superior lamella somewhat oblique, very widely separated from the spiral lamella, attaining the margin.
Inferior lamella scarcely emerging, but slightly visible from in fi-ont, bifurcate and straightened within.
Subcolumellar lamella not emerging.
Principal plica strong, visible within the aperture, where it even approaches the lip, extending inward but slightly beyond the palatal plicse.
Palatal plicje two, parallel, rather long, diverging from the principal plica anteriorly, and nearly ventral in position.
No luneJla.
Alt.
15.5, diam.
3.5, longest axis of aperture 4 mm.
Fukura, Awaji Island (Mr. Y, Hirase).
This species has much the form and color of the otherwise very different C. aurantiaca.
It differs from C. caryosioma Mlldff.
in having no punctiform plica between the two palatals, and in having the superior lamella very widely separated from the spiral lamella ; from C. interlamellaris v. Mart, in the wholly immersed subcohimellar lamella, disconnected superior and spiral lamellae, and in having two, not four, palatal plicte.
C. firacUlspira Mlldff., described from Kobe, differs in being smaller, with three palatal plica?, and continuous superior and spiral lamella?.
C. validhiscida var.
hilamellai'i Bttg., of Kiusiu, has three palatal plica?
and is a larger shell.
The wide hiatus between the superior lamella and the spiral lamella is characteristic of this species, which is named in honor of the editor of the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Clausilia tosana n. sp.
I'l.
XXV, figs.
22, 23, 24, 25, 41.
Shell small, slender, fusiform, solid, distinctly attenuated and with concave outlines above ; light brown ; finely, rather irregularly striate.
Whorls 9 to 10^, the upper ones convex, last three less so, the last whorl compressed, tapering, becoming free for a shoH distance in hout (like a " Ci/IindreUa").
Aperture slightly oblique, pyriforra, the sinulus a little retracted; peristome continuous, expanded, somewhat reffexed, thickened and white.
Superior lamella small and rather low, oblique, attaining the margin, continuous with the spiral lamella, though there is a depression at their junction.
Inferior lamella not emerging, hardly visible in a front view, but seen to be strong when viewed obliquely ; inside it ascends almost vertically, and is stouter below.
Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immersed.
Inside the spiral and subcolumellar lamella^ terminate on the ventral side and are of about equal length, while the inferior lamella is slightly shorter.
Principal plica strong, visible within the aperture, ascending to a lateral position.
Palatal plicce lateral, the upper rather long aud curved dowu at its outer end, lower plica shorter but well developed, two small, short, contiguous plicae (or sometimes one plica) midway between them.
Clausilium rather long, with parallel sides and thin rounded apex ; posterior end tapering (PI.
XXV, %• 41).
Length 12.2, diam.
2.5 mm.
Length 10.5, diam.
2.5 mm.
Ushirohawa, Tosa, Shikoku Island (Mr. Y. Hirase).
This little species differs notably from the allied C. caryodoma and C. (/racilispira in the produced last whorl, the aperture standing out somewhat like that of a Diaphora or TJrocoptls, though only shortly.
The spire is more attenuated than in those species.
It is very solid and strong for so small a ClausUta.
The specimens vary a good deal in size.
Types are Xo.
79,320 coll.
Acad.
Xat.
Sciences, from Xo.
550 of Mr. Hirase' s register.
{Group of C.
aurantiaca.')
Clausilia shikokuensis n. ?p.
PI.
XXV.
figs.
30, 31, 32.
Shell rimate, fusiform, somewhat inflated, attenuated and with concave outlines above; solid; of a rather bright orange-brown color; finely, rather obsoletely striated, the last whorl more strongly and sharply so.
Whorls about 10^, moderately convex, separated by impressed sutures, the last whorl compressed laterally, shortly solute.
Aperture ovate, somewhat oblique, the sinulus rather high and retracted ; peristome orange-brown, reflexed and thickened, continuous, slightly emarginate above.
Superior lamella somewhat oblique, rather strong, continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella scarcely emerging, inconspicuous in the front view, but becoming strong and thickened within; viewed obliquely from below it is seen to be distinctly bifurcate.
Subcolumellar lamella not emerging, invisible from in front, but seen in an oblique view.
Principal plica visible within the mouth, extending inward a little beyond the lunella.
Lunella lateral, well curved, especially above, where it is continued backward in and quite united with the anterior end of a short upper palatal fold, being thus somewhat irregularly bow-shaped.
Clausilium narrow, tongue-like.
Alt.
10, diam.
3.8, longest axis of aperture 3.5 mm.
Ushirohawa, prov.
Tosa, Shikoku Island Qlr.
Y. Hirase).
This species seems most nearly allied to C. irjnobilu Sykes and C. subaurantiaca Pils.
The former species, also from Shikoku Island, differs in the emerging inferior and subcolumellar lamellae; is rather less attenuated above, judging by the figure, but is of about the same size.^ C. subaurantiaca is a more slender, smoother species, in which the straighter luuella is united with the middle of the upper palatal plica.
In C. avrantiaca Bttg.
the lunella is I-shaped, and ventral in position, quite unlike the bow-like and lateral lunella of C. shikokuensis.
EXPLANATION^ OF PLATES.
(Figs.
2, 5, 8, 10, 14, 20, 23, 24, 31 are natural size ; the others enlarged.)
Plate XXIV.
Figs.
1, 2, 3.
Clausula (Euphceditsa) comes n. sp.
Figs.
4, 5, 6.
Clausilia (Eupluedusa) monelasmus n. sp.
Figs.
7, 8, 9.
Clausilia (section ?)
iotajityx n. sp.
Figs.
10, 11, 12.
Clausilia ( Tij ran nop heed usa) Mikado u. sp.
Figs.
13, 14, 15.
Clausilia {Stereopluedusa) hondana n. sp.
, type.
Figs.
16, 17.
Clamilia {Slereophcedusa) hondana varieties, prov, Suruga.
Fig.
18.
Clausilia (Stereojihcedusa) hondana variety, Boshiu.
Plate XXV.
Figs.
19, 20, 21.
Clausilia ( Hemip/uedtisa) Nolani u. sp.
Figs.
22, 23, 24, 25.
Clausilia {Hemip heed usa) tosana n. sp.
Figs.
26, 28.
Clausilia mo7iekwiius.
Inner view of clausilium.
Fig.
27.
Clausilia monelasmus.
Columellar view of clausilium.
Fig.
29.
Clausilia monelasmus.
Outer and basal view of clausilium.
Figs.
30, 31, 32.
Clausilia {Hemiphcedusa) shikokuensis u. sp.
Figs.
33, 34.
Clausilia I^Zapty.v) Hirasei Pils.
Clausilium in profile from palatal side, and view of inside.
^ In the figure of C. if/nobilis, Proc.
^lalao.
Soc.
Lend.,.
I, p. 202, fig.
5, the lunella is represented as connected with the plica principnlis.
Such a structure would be unique in Japanese HtmipfuvdiisiP, but I think it is probably an error of the artist, and no such connection really exists.
1900.]
Figs.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Figs.
683 35.
36.
ClausiUa (Eaphcedusa) comes.
Inner views of the clausilium.
37.
Clausilia (^Tyramiopha'dma) Mikado.
Inner view of the clausilium.
38.
Clausilia (Tyninnophcedusa) Mikado.
Clausilium from columellar side.
39.
Clausilia ( Tynuinophcediisa) Mikado.
Clausilium from outside.
40.
Clausilia (section ?)
iotaptyx.
Clausilium from inside.
41.
Clausilia (Hemijjhcedusa) tosana.
Clausilium from inside.
42.
Clausilia (Stereophcedusa) hondana.
Clausilium from columellar side.
43, 44.
Clausilia (Stei-eopJuedusa) hondana.
Clausilium from inside.
NoVEMBEPv 6.
Mr. Charlis Morris iu tlie Chair.
Fifteen persons present.
November 13.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , in the Chair.
Thirty-three persons present.
Dr. Henry Skinner made a communication on protective resemblances in insects.
(No abstract.)
November 20.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, ]\I.D., in the Chair.
Thirty-seven persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : " A Review of the Genera and Species of American Sna^ies, North of Mexico," by Arthur Erwin Brown. "
Osteology of the Psittaci," by Dr. R. ^Y.
Shufeldt.
A paper by Miss Caroline A. Burgin on the edible and poisonous mushrooms of the neighborhood was read by Dr. A. AV.
Miller.
(No abstract. )
November 27.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , iu the Chair.
Sixty-nine persons present.
A paper entitled " Notes on a Geological Section from Iguala to Sau Miguel de Totolapa, State of Guerrero, Mexico," by Charles E. Hall, was presented for publication.
The death of Otto Staudinger, a correspondent, was announced.
Prof. O^car C. S. Carter made a communication on the petrified forest and cave-dwellings of Arizona.
(No abstract.)
T. Percival Gersou, M. D. , was elected a member.
The following was ordered to be printed : THE BIDDTJLPHOID FORMS OF NORTH AMERICAN DIATOMACEJE.
BY CHARLES S. BOYER, A.M.
The following article was prepared at the request of tlie editors of the Systematic Botany of XoHh America.
It is intended to be a description of all forms of the group found along the coast, excluding the West Indies, and of the fossil diatoms of California, Virginia, Maryland and Xew Jersey.
Some, although not new, have not been hitherto described, while others have appeared in volumes difficult of access or long out of print.
In the examination of the bibliography the confusion appeared to be so great that it was thought best to describe all forms from specimens in my collection.
This labor has been lightened by the use of the Habirshaio Catalogue and of the admirable Sylloge Algarum of De Toni.
All citations given in either of these works have been, with a few exceptions, carefully examined.
It has been my purpose to give the first description and figure published and to add one or two citations to the best illustrations, especially to Schmidt's Atlas.
The classification adopted is, for the most part, that of Dr. Van Heurck and Prof. H. L. Smith.
Xo changes have been made in the nomenclature except those demanded by the law of priority.
My thanks are due to Mr. F. J. Keeley, for slides and photographs ; to Mr. Lewis Woolmau, for numerous deposits from the artesian wells and other localities, and, especially, to Mr. John A. Shulze, for many vials of finely prepared material and for specimens contributed from his collection.^ ^ For th^ history of the growth and reprodnction of these forms the student is referred to Kiitzing.
Rabenhorst, Van Heurck and Piitzer.
Jly own observations have been confined to Biddulphia Icevis, a gathering of which, sent me by Mr. T. Cbalkley Palmer, from Reedy Island, Delaware river, admirably illustrated the special cells corresponding to the ''sporangium " of authors.
Certain of the ordinary cells had apparently assumed a new function, expanding into spherical bodies three or four times the diameter Family DIATOMACE^.
Sub-Family CRYPTO-RAPHIDIE.E.
Tribe BIDDULPHIE^E.
Frustules usually concatenate, more often found free.
Zoual view well developed, generally quadrangular.
Valvular view elliptical, angular or suborbicular.
Surface varying from finely granular or punctate to coarsely reticulate.
Angles well developed and usually conspicuous, frequently elevated into horns or processes.
Sub-Tribe I. Isthmiae.
Frustules large, trapezoidal in zonal view, adherent to each other by short mucous stipes, forming irregularlv zigzag filaments.
Represented by but one genus.
1.
Isthmia.
Characters of sub-tribe.
Sub-Tribe II.
Biddulphiae.
Frustules coucatenate or attached by alternate angles.
Valves with or without processes, spines or costa-, but without trausvei*se internal septa.
Surface definitely marked with reticulations, granules or puncta.
2.
Biddulphia.
Angles usually elevated into horns or processes or distinguished by markings from the central portion.
of the normal cell and terminating the filaments.
These spherical cells contained granular masses and covrespouded to the enlarged cells of Jfdosira variaiis.
From observations made in Eunofiir pfcfi/iulis for several years, I believe that the granular masses found in many cells while in an absolutely fresh condition are extruded by the partial separation of the connective zones, and that there are formed later either new frustules by rejuvenescence or by conjugation with other masses external to the filaments.
The cells from which these granular bodies emerge, after forming into one or two larger spheres, are the fertile cells and are found in either larger or smaller filaments.
Examinations of material gathered at hourly intervals for many successive days lead me to disbelieve in the theory of gradual diminution of the frustules, and rather to accept the couchision that they really increase in size and that the flexibility of the connective zone will allow of a variation.
Sub-Tribe III.
Terpsinoese.
Frustules regularl}'concatenate.
Valves distinguished by tlie presence of transverse internal septa.
Surface without spines.
3.
Porpeia.
Valves elevated into a rounded projection at each end.
Zonal view showing septa which are straight or curved.
4.
Terpsinoe.
Surface of valve flat and indefinitely granulate.
Outline roore or less undulate.
Septa curved at the ends and usually resembling musical notes.
6.
Hydrosera.
OutHne of valve elliptical or triangular, the angles separated from the centre by short septa.
A single indefinite and indistinct septum usually found projecting from one of the sides.
6.
Anaulus.
Valves elliptical or arcuate, with prominent and robust septa.
7.
Huttonia.
Vah'es with truncate processes and transverse partial septa.
Sub-Tribe IV.
Hemiaulidiese.
Valves usually distinguished by the separation of central part from the ends or angles by costse or depressions ; processes often present, varying mucli in length and frequently tipped with a curved spine.
Valves elliptical or angular, coarsely punctate.
8.
Hemiaulus.
Valves elliptical or triangular, with or without transverse costre.
Processes prominent.
9.
Ploiaria.
Valves without processes, inflated at the centre.
Sub-Tribe V. Eucampieae.
Frustules concatenate in straight or spiral lines.
Surface of valve undulating.
Markings granular, generally indefinite.
Connective zone frequently annulate.
10.
Graya.
Valves elliptical, with undulating surface.
11.
Eucampia.
Valves elliptical with undulating surface, and connected in a spiral chain.
Sub-Tribe I. Isthmiae.
I. ISTHMIA Ag.
(1832).
Valves dissimilar and unequal, elliptical or ovate.
In one valve the surface is elevated at one end into a protuberance or " beak;" in the other there is simjjly a gradual elevation toward one end.
Surface coarsely cellular, except at the " beak," where the cells are much smaller.
The ultimate structure of each cell appears to be that of a " delicate, perforated membrane," of more or less elliptical outline and with various arrangements of the perforations.'
In zonal view the frustules are more or less rhomboidal or trapezoidal, without definite relation between the width and length.
Connective zone varies greatly in width and is frequently persistent, so that at the same time what appears at first to constitute one frustule may be found to contain the two older valves whh their connective zones and two new valves with, possibly, their connective zones.
Analysis of Species.
Valves costate, 1. nervosa.
Valves not costate : Rhomboidal in zonal view, 2. obliquata.
Irregularly ridged as to one valve, .
.
.
• .
.
3. minima.
1.
Isthmia nervosa Kutz.
Isthmia nervosa Kiitz., Bacill.
(1844), 137, PI.
19, fig.
5 ; Schmklt, PI.
135; PI.
145, figs.
10, 11.. Biatoma obliquatiim Lyiig, Hydropbyton Dan., 181, in part.
Isthmia obliquata (Lyug) Ag., Cousp., 55, in part.
"^ Valves traversed from the margin toward the centre by costa?, which vary in number from 10 to 50.
Av.
1. of fr.
.264 mm., av.
1. of v. .198 mm.
Cells of the connective zone much larger on the border.
^ For details of structure v. Xelson and Karop's "Notes of Finer Structure."
etc., Journal of Quekitt Club, Ser.
2, Vol.
3. p. 2(>9, and Vol.
3, p. 41; also, Dr. Stokes on "Minute Structure of Certain Diatoms'' in Observer, 1894, p. 369; and on ''The Structure of the Diatom Girdle."
by Palmer and Keeley, in the current volume of the Pkocekpixgs of the Academy, p. 465.
Coast of California, where it is abundant; Leete's Island, Conn. (Teny); Rockaway, L. I.
(Terry); Riviere du Loup (Lewis); L. I.
Sound (Lewis); Newport, R. I., in situ (Lewis); Boston Harbor (Bailey) ; Portland, Me.
(J.
A. Shulze) ; Hudson Strait (J.
A. Shulze).
Its occurrence on the Atlantic coast is extremely rare.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of California.
2, Isthmia obliquata (J. E. Smith).
Conferva ohliquata Smith, Eng.
Bot.
(1814), PI.
1869.
Dintoma obliquatum Lyng, Hydrophyt.
Dan., 181, in part.
Isthmia oMiguata (Lyng) Ag., Consp., 55.
Isthmia eiiervis Ehr., Inf., 209 ; Schmidt, PI.
136, figs.
1, 3, 6, 7.
Isthmiella enervis (Ehr.)
Cleve, Diat.
Arct., 10.
Valves as in nervosa, except that the costce are absent.
The cells of the " beak" are not usually so small relatively as in nervosa, while those of the connective zone are smaller and the reticulations of the entire surface appear more angular.
Honduras (Janisch, Rabenhorst), and probably to be occasionally found southward.
As Ralfs remarks, nervosa appears to be the northei'n and " enervis'' the southern species.'
3.
Isthmia minima B. and H. Isthmia minima Biiley and Harvey, Wilkes' Expedition (1862), 176, PI.
9, fig.
11; Schmidt, PI.
145, fig.
9.
Isthmiella minima (B. and H. ) De Toni, 835.
Isthmia Lindigiana Grun.
and Eul., Hedwigia, 6, 29; Schmidt, PI.
145, figs.
1, 2, 3.
Isthmia capensis Grim., Schmidt, Pi.
136, fig.
4, PI.
145, fig.
4.
Frustules smaller and usually more elongated than in nervosa and obliquata.
Opposite valves showing greater inequalities, one valve almost invariably having ridged elevations.
Connective zone with rather minute cells and usually without a border of larger cells.
Cells of valve average Ih in .01 mm.
Cells of connective zone average 3 in .01 mm.
L. of fr.
.231 mm, L. of v. .013 mm.
Secondary markings consist of minute puncta arranged in longitudinal rows within the reticulations.
Certain valves from Barbados which appear similar to the present species are without doubt distinct, having a rather coarse cellular reticulation within the cells which thus appear beautifully stellate.
Not uncommon in Campeachy Bay, Honduras and southward.
^ The forms usually known as nervosa and enervis are, as lemarked by Wm.
Smith, "inextricably confused," but the figure given bj' J. E. Smith in English Botany, Plate 1869, under the name Conferva obliquata, is undoubtedly enervis, as it does not show the costse, and, by the law of priority, the specific name of obliquata should be retained for the forms without costse.
Sub-Tribe II.
BiddulphisB.
BIDDULPHIA Gray (1S31) em.
V. H. (1885).
Valves usually -svitli processes which are globular, conical or cylindrical, obtuse or truncate, or with spines imitating .slender processes.
When processes are absent, the angles or ends of valves, either by elevation or by variation in punctation, resemble them.
The following analytical key to the species is artificial.
AVhile the uncertainty as to the relations of these forms exists, it is difficult to group them.
At the same time, it will be seen that the genus divides itself, more or less naturally, into groups represented by such forms as Biddulphiana, Mobiliensis, Favus, turgida, Circinus, arctica, vesiculosa, Tahellarium, trisulca, eondecora, parvula and semicircular is.
It seems unnecessary to separate the forms once included under Denticella and Odontella.
The genus Triceratium is necessarily abandoned, the genus Amphitetras is no longer useful and the only two gx'oups which appear to be sufficiently distinct are Zygoceros and Cerataulus, the former differing, however, from Biddulphia only in the absence of true processes, while the latter is Biddulphoid in form, but appears to be a transition to Aullscus.
I have, therefore, followed Prof. H. L. Smith and Dr. Van Heurck in uniting all the genera mentioned under Biddulphia.
Although, as has been remarked, an enormous number of species is thus included, the distribution of many, hitherto considered as belonging to Tricendiurn, under nou-Biddiilphoid genera will probably result in a greater restriction than would be the case if most angular forms are classified as Triceratia.
* Analysis of Species.
1.
Valves divided into three or more parts.
Processes globular (Biddulphia proper).
Divisions of valve not elevated, ... 1.
Blddu/jthiana.
Divisions of valve elevated into rounded protuberances : Cells regularly disposed and rounded, .
.
2. tridens.
CeUs irregularly disposed, pustuliforra, .
3. pustulata.
* Various authors give "Bermuda "as a locality of fossil species.
Keference to the ishinds of Bermuda is a mistake, as they are of coral formation, aud contain no fossil deposits.
It should be regarded as indicating Nottingham, JMd., and its immediate vicinity, which is situated in what is known as "Bermuda Hundred."
2, Valves not divided into parts.
Usually furnished with spines.
Processes more or less conical and obtuse.
Surface not coavsely reticulate ( Odontella and DenticeUa, in part) : Spines very numerous and prominent : Valves broadly elliptical 4. multicornis.
Valves narrowly elliptical, .... 5.
Brittoniana.
Spines few but long and prominent : Spines usually twp on each valve : Projecting from central elevation, .
.
6. longicruris.
Projecting from small conical elevations near the extremities, 7.
Mohiliensis.
Spines usually six or eight, .... 8. longispina.
Spines small, usually few, or sometimes "wanting: Valves elliptical : With central elevation, 9. aurita.
Without marked elevation, .... 10. obtusa.
With central depression or simply convex : Spines absent, 11.
Roperiana.
Spines in circlet at centre, .... 12.
Argus.
Spines one or two near opposite margins : Surface Avith spurs, .... 13.
Edimrdsii.
Surface without fine spui's, .
.
14.
Cookiana.
Surface divided by two transverse hyaline lines, 15. interrupta.
Spines curved, one near each process, .
.
16. granidata.
Spines three to six, valve divided longitudinally, 17. seticulosa.
Valves rhomboidal or angular, surface with small spurs : Processes hornlike, obtuse, valves 3-4angled, 18. spinosa.
Processes small, sh-^rt, 19.
Rhombus, Valves suborbicular, 20. suborbicularis.
Valves orbicular, 21.
Smithii.
3.
Valves usually as in 2, but with surface coarsely reticulate ('iriceratium, in part): Processes conical and obtuse : Valves angular : 3-4-angled, 1. of s. 15 mm.
or less, .
.
22.
Favus.
3-7-angled, 1. of s. usually exceeding 15 mm., 23. grandis.
3-anglefl, small, with more acute processes, 24. acuta.
o-4-auglecl, sides convex, usually with stout spiues, 25.
Robertsiana.
5-angled, small, sides turgid, .
, 26.
Camjieachiana.
Valves elliptical or rhomboidal: Without spines: Rhomboidal with turgid sides, reticulations 2 in .01 mm., 27. duhia.
Rhomboidal or elliptical, reticulations 1 to 1^7 in .01 mm., 28. reticulata.
With two or three spines near the margin: Surface depressed at centre, .
.
29.
Peruviana.
Surface not depressed, 30.
Keeleyi.
4.
Valves with cylindrical, truncate processes, appearing hyaline at the apex ( Cerataulus, in part) : Valves angular: Reticulations coarse, hexagonal, .
.
.
31. con-similis.
Reticulations fine : Processes short, truncate, , .
.
32. convexiuscula.
Processes lai'ge, elevated, .... 33. orbicidata.
Valves elliptical (or rarely angular) : Reticulations coarse, 34. verrucosa.
Reticulations fine: AVith two stout spines, surface spurred, .
35. turgida.
AVithout strong spiues, 36.
CalifoDiica.
Surface without spurs: Valves small, without spines, .
.
37. oralis.
Valves small, with two small spiues, one near each side, 38. hrvis.
Valves large, without spines, .
.
39.
TJiumii.
5.
Valves with processes replaced l\v spines (^Zygoceros) : Valves elliptical, 40.
Circinus.
Valves suborbicular, 41. quadriconm.
6.
Valves without true processes.
Reticulations more or less angular or irregular, those of the angles ditloring from those of the centi'al portion (Triceratium): Valves elliptical, 42.
Bahrna.
Valves angular, with or without central elevations, 43. arctica.
Valves triangular, with central and angular elevations, 44.
Heilpriniana.
7.
Valves mostly as in 6, but usually with very short, truncated processes, which are hyaline at the ends (Amjjhitetras) : Valves without web-like markings: 4-5-angleu, 45. vesiculosa.
Rhomboidal, 46. decipiens Valves with web-like markings: Markings producing appearance of inscribed square : Reticulations about 5 in .01 mm., .
.
47. elegans.
Eeticulations about 2^ in .01 mm., .
48. biquadrata.
Markings not^producing appearance of square : Valves 4-5-angled, 49.
Pentacrinus.
8.
Valves angular, the angles not elevated, separated from central part by more or less definite costte ( Trice rat ium ) : Costse dividing angles from centre, .
.
.
50.
Kainii.
Costse extending but short distances from sides: Of the same length, usually curved, .
51.
Tahellarium.
Indefinite in length and direction, .
.
52. alternans.
9.
Valves with round, scattered puncta.
Angles elevated into rounded processes (Triceratiwn) : Without septa, ... 53. trisidca.
With partial septa, ' 54. costulata.
10.
Valves without marked elevation of surface and not divided by costre or otherwise.
Angles without processes.
Spines usually absent.
Puncta generally indefinite, irregular and unequal ( Triceratium) : Valves flat : Puncta in radiating, undulating rows, .
55. condecora.
Puncta rounded or subquadrate, not undulating, outline suborbicular, 56.
-subrotundota.
Outline triangular, with more or less unequal sides which are often sinuous, .
.
.
57.
Americana.
Outline 5-6-augled, 58.
Antillanun.
Puncta interspersed with much finer puncta, 59. interpunctatum.
Puncta of one angle much smaller than those in the other two, 60. hebetata.
45 Puncta crowded at the angles and in parallel rows at the margin, .
61. heterojwi'a.
Valves with slight elevations at the angles and often at the centre: Puncta much finer at the angles, .
.
.
62. tessellata.
Puncta nearly equal, 63.
Reticulum.
Puncta in-egular, unequal and scattered, .
64. inelegans.
11.
Valves as in 10, but with surface mostly hyaline, except at the centre and angles where the puncta are minute, 65. parvula.
12.
Valves semicircular or arcuate, more or less elevated at the ends, and with mostly coarse, radiant puncta, 66. semicircularis.
13.
Valves elliptical, coarsely punctate, usually traversed by hyaline lines: Hyaline lines prominent, 67.
Testudo.
Hyaline lines indistinct, one at each end, .
68.
Shulzei.
1.
Biddulphia Biddulphiana (Smith).
Corifcrvd lUddnlphiana Smith, Ensr.
Bot.
(1807), PI.
1762, (upper figs).
Biddnlphlii indchella Gray, Arr.
Brit.
Plants, I, 294; Schmidt, PI.
118, figs.
2G-32, PI.
121, figs.
1, 2, Dintomd BiddulpManum Ag.
Diatoma inter sstitiule Ag.
Diatoma Uberum Ag.
Denticella Biddulphia Ehr.
Biddulphia trilocularis, quinquelocularis and septemlociilaris Kiitz.
B. Australis Mont.
B. elongata Menengh.
B. fasciata, unifaseiata and transversa Wigand.
Valve, in general outline, elliptical.
Surface convex, divided tranversely by two or more costre.
Sides undulating, the undulations, which are sometimes angular, corresponding to the divisions of the surface.
At each end a process rises which is more or less globular, constricted at the base.
The centre of the valve, usually not so elevated as the processes, bears a few rather short spines.
Surface reticulated, the reticulations coarse, equalling .003 mm.
in diam., except at the centre, where they are usually smaller and arranged more or less concentrically around a somewhat elliptical, panduriform or oblong space which is transverse to the major axis of the valve.
On the processes the reticulations are minute.
Between the coarse reticulations occur minute puncta.
Zonal view quadrangular, the connective zone having smaller reticulations, about 5 in .01 mm., arrangod in nearly parallel vertical rows.
L. of v. averages .115 mm.
A species variable in size, outline and the number of costte.
In a specimen from Campeachy Bay the costte are connected by anastomosing lines.
Common along the Atlantic coast, especially southward.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of California and New Jersey, and in later deposits at Pensauken, N. J., and the blue clay of the Delaware river.
2.
Biddulphia tridens Ehr.
Biddulphia tridens Ehr., AWiand.
Ber.
Akad., 1838, 129.
Denticella tridens Ehr., Abhand.
Ber.
Akad.
(1839), 73.
Denticella tridentata Ebr., Abhand.
Ber.
Akad.
(1844).
79.
Denticella polymera E., Abhand.
Ber.
Akad.
(1844), 266.
Odontella polymera Kiitz., Bacilh, 137.
Zycjoceros TuomeyiB&W., Sil.
Jour.
(1844), PI.
3, figs.
3, 4, 8.
Denticella polymera (Ehr.)
Bail., Sil.
Jour.
(1845), 342.
Denticella simplex Shadb.. T. M. S (1854), PI.
1, fig.
16.
Denticella margaritifera Shadb., T. M. S., PI.
1, fig.
17 (1854).
Biddulphia tridentata Ehr., Mik., PL 18, fig.
52.
Biddulphia Tuomeyi (Bail.
), Roper, T. M. S. (1859), 8 ; Schmidt, PI.
118, figs.
1-7, PI.
119, figs.
1-7, 15, 17.
Biddulphia elegantula Grev., T. M. S. (1865), 50.
Valves rhombic-lanceolate, divided by septa into three or more divisions, the centre one always largest, the undulations of the sides corresponding to the divisions.
Surface coarsely granular.
In zonal view the divisions of the valves are seen to consist of more or less hemispherical elevations, becoming gradually smaller aa a rule toward the ends.
Processes usually rising higher than the elevatioQS, varying from short to slender and generally inflated at the base.
From the central elevation two or more slender, rather short spines arise, and frequently smaller spines are seen in the other elevations.
Variable in size, the valve, in the form of eleganinla, reaching a. length of .
3 mm.
The distinction between B. pulchella and B. tridens may be saidi to consist chiefly in the surface reticulation, in the elevation of the septate divisions and in the outline.
In tridens, all of the septate' divisions are usually more or less elevated, while in pulchella thecentral one only is so found.
The outline of tridens is rhombic,, while that of pulchella is elliptical.
There are forms, especially in the Redondo Beach (Cal. )
material, which appear to be intermediate.
Common along the South Atlantic coast of Xorth America.
Fossil in Ihe Miocene deposits of California, Virginia, New Jersey and St. Augustine, Fla.
In a note on " Ehrenberg's Observtions on the Fossil Infusoria of Virginia and Maryland," etc., in Sil.
Jour.
(1845), Prof. Bailey states (p. 204) that, in a letter received, Ehrenberg says that Zygoceros (Biddulphia) Tuomeyi equals Denticella tridentata.
Ehrenberg (3fik., PI.
21, fig.
24) gives Biddulphia tridentata as equaling Denticella tridens.
The figure prevents it from being considered as Biddulphia jndchella, as suggested by De Toni {SylL, p. 870).
Roper remarks: " In examining the synonymy of this species, Ehrenberg's name of Denticella tridens appears to have the priority as to date, but as it occurs not infrequently with only one lobe and occasionally with ten or twelve, as shown in the Denticella polymera of Am.
Jour, of Science, Vol.
xlviii, tab.
iv, tig.
20, clearly only a large specimen of the present form, the designation tridens is so decidedly inapplicable that I am induced to retain that of Tuomeyi, given by Prof.
Bailey."
The reason for the violation of the law of priority I do not consider sufficient, because, in the first place, a descriptive specific name cannot, in mauv cases, apply to all variations, and, in the second place, because, if aU the variations included by Roper and others are accepted as forms of one species, it will be found that Ehrenberg's form of tridens is so abundant in jeceut and fossil deposits that it may be considered a type form.
Greville states that the form of elegantula ditiers from B. Tuomeyi " in the almost filiform horns, not inflated at the base, and which form a right angle with the base of the valve as in Jlemiaulus.
'^ In a specimen from the artesian well at Atlantic City I have noticed that while one process is not inflated, the other is as much so as in many type forms of B. trident.
It would appear that in some cases the process is extended after the valve apparently intended to expand merely into an elevation, ard that the inflation is occasionally accidental.
As elegantula is vai'iable in the number of inflations or lobes, there appears to be no way of separating it from B. tridens.
I have, therefore, coneluded to unite all the forms.
A peculiar form, the photograph of which was kindly sent me by Dr. Ward, of Poughkeepsie, shows the valve with three elevations and with short slender processes extending from much-inflated bases which appear similar to the usual elevations.
The valve is arched longitudinally.
In a form from Szakal, Hungary, the arching of the valve is lateral.
It may be considered doubtful whether the numerous variations in B. tridens exceed those found in many other species of Biddidphla.
3.
Biddulphia pustulata Brun.
BkldulpMa pustulata Brun, Diat.
Esp.
Noiiv., 13 (1891), PI.
13, fig.
10.
Valves rhombic-lanceolate, divided by septa into three or more divisions, as in B. tridens, with the central division turgid.
Surface " with coarse, large, pustuliform granules, irregularly placed or grouped, " which extend to the apices of the processes.
Silex robust and very thick, as in B. vlftata Gr.
and St.
In zonal view the appearance of valve approaches very closely B. tridens.
L. of V. .09 to .11 mm.
(From Brun's Di(d. Esp.
Nouv., in part.)
Fossil in Miocene deposit of Atlantic City, N. J.
(Brun).
4.
BiddulpMa multicornis Grim.
BiddulpMa m^ulticornis Grun., V. H. Syii.
(1881), PI.
102, fig.
7.
Biddulj)hia multicornis var.
Templum Brun., Schmidt's Atlas, PI.
173, figs.
13, 14.
Valve broadly elliptical-lanceolate, with rounded ends.
Processes short, obliquely truncate.
Surface convex, finely reticulated, the reticulations about 5 in .01 mm., with minute spurs at intervals, as in B. turgida.
Arranged in a single row along each edge of the valve are about twelve large, flattened spines, tumid at the base, extending to the opposite valve, which they closely embrace.
L. of v. .
2 mm.
A rare and singular species.
The spines, which have the appearance of coming from the interior of the valve, are so firmly attached to the opposite valve that they leave scars upon it when separated.
Fossil in Miocene deposit of Redondo Beach, Cal.
As no illustration of the valve view of either type form or variety has been given, I am unable to distinguish between them.
In the very few specimens sent me by Mr. John A. Shulze, the variations appear to be chiefly in size and in relative width of val ve.
5.
Biddulphia Brittoniana K. and S. BiddulpMa Brittoniana Kaia and Schultzft , Bull .
Torr.
Bot .
Club (1889) , 208, PI.
102, fig.
1.
Valves elliptical -lanceolate, slightly convex.
Surface traversed by transverse rows of indistinct puncta, about 10 in .01 mm., extending to the ends of processes which are large, cylindrical, truncate and curved in opposite directions.
At the base of each process one or two strong curved spines extend, meeting the surface of the opposing valve of the next frustule and apparently acting as braces.
Around the margin and along the middle of the valve extend rows of fine hairs which, meeting and interlacing with those of the next valve, unite the two valves of different frustules.
L. of v. .214 mm.
Fossil in the Miocene deposit of Atlantic City, X. J.
6.
Biddulphia longicruris Grcv.
Bkldulphia longicruris Grev., T. M. S. (1859), 163, PI.
6, fij.
10; Schmidt, PI.
118, fig.
10.
Valve elliptical-lanceolate.
Surface with a rounded elevation from which project two or more long spines.
Processes long, obtuse, slightly inflated at the base.
Surface witli rows of puncta radiating from the centre.
Ou the connective zone the puncta are in vertical rows.
L. of v. averages .033 mm.
Near B. aurita, from which it is chiefly distinguished by the much longer processes.
Occasional on the Pacifit^ coast — " Califoruiau guano," Grev.
7.
Biddulphia Mobiliensis (Bail.)
Grun.
Biddulphia Mobiliensis (Bail.)
Grun., V. H.
Svn., PI.
101, figs.
4-6, PI.
1U3, fig.
.-1; Schmidt, PI.
122, figs.
20.
21.
Zi/j/oceros [Denficella n ^fobilie)<sis Bail., Mic.
Obs., 40 (1830).
Biddulphia Baileyi \Vm.
Smith, Bill.
Diat., 'J, 50, PI.
45, fig.
322, PI.
62, fig.
322.
Zygoceroi Mobiliensis (Bail.)
Ralfs, Biddulphia tenuis L. W.
Bail., Biddulphia trinaeria L. W.
Bail., Bi ntieilla Mobiliensin i^Bail.)
Grun., Zygoecros occidentalis L. W.
Bail., DerJicella triancria Bail.
Valve elliptical-lanceolate.
Surface convex with a flat central portion, separated from the other part of valve by a sliirhtly elevated ridge which extends in two more or less sigmoidal lines from one process to the other.
On opposite sides of this centnil portion, and placed at distances variable in diflerent specimens from each process, is a small, conical i)iojection from which extend one and occasionally two long, slender spines or bristles.
Processes slender, capitate, about .023 ram.
in length or about half the length of the spines.
Surface of valve " delicately decussately-punctate," the markings resembing those of Pleurosigma, about 15 in .01 mm.
In zonal view the valve converges toward the central elevation.
Frustules delicate, of a yellowish color, variable in size, the length of valve in American specimens averaging .06G mm.
Common in the Gulf of Mexico and southward; Savannah (Bail.
); St. Augustine, Fla.
(Bail.)
; Trichoplankton of the North Atlantic (Cleve) ; Fossil at Richmond, Atlantic City artesian well and in the Pleistocene clay from artesian well at Norfolk, Va. 8.
BiddulpMa longispina Grun.
Biddulphia longispina Grim., V. H.
Syn., PI.
102, fig.
6 (1881).
Odoiitotropis longispina (Grun.
), De Toni.
Valve elliptical or elliptical-lanceolate, tapering as a frustum into a narrowly elliptical-lanceolate flattened elevation surrounded by a hyaline, unevenly notched ridge from which project robust, hollow spines, 6 or 8 in number, about .092 mm.
in length.
From each end of valve a slender, capitate process, about .046 mm.
in length, extends.
Surface of valve traversed by rows of minute granules, about 9 in .01 mm.
on the elevation and 12 in .01 mm.
at the sides.
The granules extend in transversely parallel rows from a narrow median line to the edge of the crest and then radial e toward the circumference.
L. of V. .072 mm.
The hyaline ridge in this species is not strictly a single keel, as in Odontoiropls cristata and 0. eavlnata from the Mors deposit, but is a double elevation enclosing an elliptical central portion* of valve.
The general structure, in this respect, resembles that of B. Mobiliensis (Bail.)
Grun.
Fossil at Redondo Beach and Santa Monica, Cal., and Atlantic City, N. J.
9.
BiddulpMa aurita (Lyng) Brelj.
Biddulphia aurita (Lyng) Breb., Consid.
Diat., 12 (1838); Wm Smith, Brit.
Diat., ^, 49, PI.
45, fig.
319, front, fig.
319 ; V. H. Syn PI.
98, figs.
4-9. '
Diatoma auritum Lyng, Hydrophyt.
Dau., 182 (1819), PI.
62, fig.
D. Odontella aurita (Lyng) Ag., Consp., 56.
Deuticella aurita Ehr.
Denticella gracilis Ehr.
Zygoceros margaritaceum B. and H. Valve elliptical-lanceolate.
Surface with an elevation at centre, generally more or less flattened at the top, from whicli usually a few short spines project.
Processes obtuse, inflated at the base.
Surface covered with rounded puncta, about 6 in .01 mm., radiating from an obscure centre.
In zonal view the frustule is quadrangular, the connective zone having vertical rows of parallel puncta about 5 in .01 mm.
Length of v. .082 mm.
A variable species.
Common on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts.
10.
Biddulphia obtusa (KUtz.)
Ralfs.
nUldulphia ohtma (Kiitz.)
Ralfs, Prit.
Inf., 848 (1861).
Odoatella obtusd Kiitz., Bacill., 137 (1844), PI.
18, 8, figs.
1-3, 6-S.
Valve elliptical-lanceolate.
Surface without marked central elevation, the centre appearing usually flattened or somewhat depressed.
Processes obtuse and short, somewhat inflated at the base.
Very near B. aurita, from which it is chiefly distinguished by the absence of central spines and by the shortness of the processes.
As B. obtusa appears to include, however, according to various authors, about all the forms whose processes are not acute, the name is not particularly sigQificant.
Atlantic and Pacific coasts.
[Biddulphia subaequa (KUtz.)
Ralfs.]
Biddulphia sidxequa (Kiitz.)
Ralfs, Prit.
Inf., 848; Schmidt, PI.
141, fig.
11 (not var.
Baltica, V. H.
Syn., PL 100, figs.
5, 6).
Odontella subwqua Kiitz., Bicill., 137, PI.
18, figs.
4, 5. "
Frustules oblong, very smooth, with minute lateral spines and without any median elevation " (Kiitz.).
Campeachy Bay (Schmidt).
Prof. Smith remarks that both B. obtusa and B. subcequa '' are merely forms " of B. aurita, and, as Ralfs says, he " is probably right."
11.
Biddulphia Roperiana Orev.
Biddulp/iia liojh'riitna Grev., T. M. S. (1859), 163, PI.
8, fi?.
11-13; Schmidt, PI.
120, fig.
20-24.
Odontelln Roperiana (Grev.)
De Toni.
Syl.
Alg., 86S.
l^riceratrium ( Odoatella discigera var.?)
Californicum Griin.?
V. H.
Syn., PI.
108, fig.
11 (?).
Valve broadly elliptical-lanceolate or triangular (?).
Surface convex, with a central depression, punctate, the puncta averaging 7 in .01 mm., radiating from the centre.
Zonal view quadrangiilar, the connective zone having puncta in vertical parallel rows.
L. of V. .165 mm.
Distinguished by its prominent central depression from B. aurita, which it very n^^arly approaches.
Common on the Pacific coast.
Fossil in the California deposits.
12.
Biddulphia Argus Boyer.
i Biddulphia Argus Bojer, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phil.
(1898), 469, PI.
24, fig.
6.
Schmidt's Atlas, PI.
120, fig.
27, apparently represents an intermediate form.
Valve broadly elliptical, convex, with an elliptical depression at centre, which is encircled by from 10 to 12 short spines.
Processes rather short and obtuse.
Surface with reticulations hexagonal, about 3 in .01 mm.
at the border and 5 in .01 mm.
at the centre, from which they radiate in curved lines.
L. of v. .165 mm.
Port Antonio, Jamaica.
Distinguished chiefly by the central spines and by the size of the reticulations.
It approaches B. Roperkma Grev.
and B. Peruviana Grun.
13.
Biddulphia Edwardsii Febiger.
Biddulphia Edwardsii Febiger (MSS.).
Odontella Edwardsii (Feb.) Grun., Diat.
Fr.
Jos.
Laud, 5, PI.
2, fig.
20; V. H. Syn.
PI.
100, figs.
9, 10.
Valve suborbicular or orbicular-lanceolate.
Surface with puncta from 5 to 7 in .01 mm., radiating from centre and with numerous evenly distributed short spurs, by which adjacent frustules are united.
One or two small spines usually occur near each side.
Processes short, truncate or obtuse.
The prickly surface, under low powers, somewhat resembles that of B. tiwgida.
Connective zone with puncta in parallel lines.
L of V. .033 mm.
to ,105 mm.
Pacific coast.
Occasional on the Atlantic coast.
Prof. H. L. Smith (^1.
J.
3L, 4, p. 101) considers this form to be "a hirsute variety of B. Roijeriana Grev."
It is probably intermediate between B. Roperiana and B. primordialis Brun.
In large specimens a hyaline ring is quite distinct in the coimective zone, as mentioned by Brun in his description of the latter species (Esp.
Nouv., 13).
See also under B. polyacanthos Brun, /.
c. , p. 12.
14.
Biddulphia Cookiana K. and S. Biddulphia Cookiana K. and S., Torr.
Bnll.
(1889), 73, PI.
89, fi?.
4.
Odontella Cookiana (K. and S. ) De Toni.
Biddulphia tumida (E.) Roper?
T. M. S. (1859), 15, PI.
2, figs.
18, Roper gives as the synonymy of his species Deaticella tumida f E. and Odontella tumida Kiitz,, and states that the form agrees with Ehrenberg's description of a valve from "Bermuda" [Nottingham].
Roper's figures and description appear to show the identity of his form with B. Cookiana K. and S., an examination of the " Old Well" deposit of Richmond showing a large number of specimens, the smaller of which illustrate the globose character of the valves.
Valve suborbicular or elliptical-lanceolate, convex, witli processes tumid at the base and small and obtuse at the apex.
Surface with radiating, unequal, hexagonal reticulations, about 4 in .
01 mm.
One or two stout spines are placed on each side near the margin.
Connective zone with parallel rows of puncta about 7 in .01 mm.
L. of V. .105 mm.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Atlantic coast.
15.
Biddulphia interrupta Boyer.
Biddulphia interrnpta Boj'er, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
(1898), 4(38, PI.
24, lig.
2.
Valve elliptical, with small, rounded pi'ocesses.
Surface convex, finely punctate, the puncta about 10 in .01 mm., radiating in scattered lines from the centre, at which are three minute spines.
About one-third of the distance from centre to processes, at each end, a hyahne hand, produced by the interruption of puncta, crosses the valve transvei'selv extending nearly to the sides.
L of V. .112 ram.
Campeachy Bay.
Rare.
16.
Biddulphia granulata Roper.
Biddulphia granulata Roper, T. M. S. (1859).
13, PI.
1. figs.
10, 11, PL 2, fig.
12.
This form has been identified with Dentieella turgida Ehr.
^ Odontella turj^ida Kiitz.
=: Hiddidphia turgida (Ehr.)
Ralfs (not Wm.
Sm.
), and it appears to be equivalent, in outline at least, to Dentieella dubia Bail. "
It is impossible," as Roper remarks, " to speak with certainty."
Valve elliptical-lanceolate.
Surface convex with diagonal rows of fine puncta about 12 in .01 mm., and with sparsely scattered small spurs.
Processes slightly inflated at the base, obtuse at the ends, which are curved outward toward alternate sides.
Near each process and on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis is placed a long, stout spine, bent or curved inward near the middle.
Connective zone with rows of diagonal puncta slightly smaller than those on the valve.
L. of v. .108 mm.
Vera Cruz.
Fossil in the Pleistocene clay from the Norfolk artesian well.
Xot common.
17.
Biddulphia seticulosa Grun.
BiddulpMa seticulosa Grun., V. H.
Syn., V\.
101, figs.
7, 8.
Denticella seticulosa (Grun.)
De Toni.
Valve elliptical, acumjnate at the ends, from which arise hornlike, obtuse processes.
Surface of valve divided longitudinally by an indefiuite, irregular line which does not reach the extremities and from which proceed the rows of puncta parallel at the middle, but radiating toward the ends.
Minute spurs are scattered over the surface in addition to longer spines, indefinite in number, but usually three to six on each side near the margin.
Puncta, about 6 in .01 mm., are arranged in vertical rows on connective zone and also extend almost to the end of processes.
L. of V. .198 mm.
Width of v. .082 mm.
L. of frustule .072 mm.
Fossil in the Petersburg, Va. , deposit.
Van Heurck considers this as probably a form of Trieeratiwn tridaetylum Brightw.
(=z Biddulphia spinosa (Bail.
)), and as probably near B. reticulata var.
6.
Koper.
See remarks under B. spinosa.
18.
Biddulphia spinosa (Bail.).
Triceratium spinosum Bail., Sil.
Jour.
(1844), 139, PI.
3, fig.
12; Schmidt, PI.
87, figs.
2, 3, 4, 5.
Triceratium tridaetylum Brighlw.
Triceratium armatum Eoper.
Triceratium setigerum Bail.
Triceratium.
serratum Wallich.
Not Biddulphia spinosa Grev.
= Denticella spinosa (Grev.)
Grun.
Schmidt {^Atlas, PI.
87) considers this form equivalent to Triceratium Pileus Ehr.
(Mikrogeolorjie, PI.
19, fig.
18), but Ehrenberg's figure certainly does not represent this form.
Grunow states that Triceratium spinosum is a triangular form of Biddulphia granulata Roper.
Specimens in ray collection from Vera Cruz and the Norfolk artesian well of Biddulphia granulata have a finer reticulation than Biddulphia spinosa, but the two forms are quite similar.
Prof. Smith attributes Bailey's Triceratium setigerum to Triceratium comptum Ehr.
, but Bailey's figure appears to represent a form nearer spinosum.
Valve triangular or quadrangular, with straight or concave sides.
Angles produced into horn-like, obtuse processes.
Surface convex, reticulated, the cells hexagonal, 3 to 5 in .01 mm.
at centre, and slightly smaller toward the angles.
At intervals of three or four cells small spurs usually occur giving a prickly appearance to the valve.
Two to six or rarely more stout spines, in length about oue-third to one-half the width of valve, and often forked at the ends in perfect specimens, are placed at unequal distances from the angles, two on each side, if of the usual number.
In fossil forms most if not all of the spines are frequently broken off.
In zonal view, the valve, as Bailey remarks, is constricted beneath the processes.
The reticulations of the connective zone are similar to those of valve.
L. of side .013-156 mm.
L. of frustule occasionally reaching .201 mm.
The dovetailing of the lateral margins of the connecting zone at the angles, as described by Wallich in reference to Triceratium serratum, is well exhibited also in triangular forms in my collection from Yucatan.
It is, however, merely the " postage stamp" fracture of the corners of the valve and is not always as regular as shown by Wallich.
West coast of Florida; Campeachy Bay; Yucatan.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Atlantic coast and the St. Augustine artcsi.ai well.
19.
Biddulphia Rhombus (Ehr.)
Wm.
Sm.
Biddulphia lihombns (Ehr.)
Wm.
Sm., Brit.
Diat., ~% 49.
PI.
45, fig.
320, ri.
61, fig.
320; Schmidt, PI.
120, figs.
11-13.
Zygoceros Ehoinbtis Ehr.
DenticeUa Hhombiis Ehr.
Triceratium Biddulphia Heib.
Triceratium striolatum Khr.
Triceratium membra/iaccum Brightw.
Valve orbicular-rhomboidal with produced ends, or triangular with convex sides.
Surface convex, with fine hexagonal reticulations from 7 to 9 in .01 mm., which are irregular on an elliptical or triangular central part, but which radiate thence to the margins and continue nearly to the ends of processes.
Scattered over the surface are minute spurs.
Processes small, short and ohtuse.
Xear the convex margins strong, short spines occur, usually three on each side near the middle and two additional ones next each process.
L, of v. .165 mm.
W. of v. .112 mm.
The triangular form (var.
trigona Cleve) diflfers apparently only in outline.
The reticulations are not always radiate.
In a specimen from an artesian well at Harvey Cedars, X. J., they occur in short, decussate, intermediate rows.
Common along the Atlantic coast.
Fossil in the Miocene and later deposits of the Eastern States.
20.
Biddulphia suborbicularis Grun.
Biddulphia suborbicularis Grun., Y. H.
Syn., PI.
100, figs.
15, 16.
Biddulphia angulata A. S., Schmidt, PL 141, figs.
7,.
8.
Denticella?
suborbicularis (Gran.)
De Toni.
Odonttlla angulata (A. S.) De Toui.
Valve suborbicular, frequently with several irregular, angular projections.
Processes frequently unequal, inflated at the base and truncate.
Surface elevated half-way between the processes and centre, at which a depression occurs, "with reticulations from 5 to 8 in .01 mm., increasing in size towai'd the circumference and radiating in slightly undulating lines.
Two, rarely three or four, stout spines are placed obliquely opposite half-way between centre and circumference.
L. of v. .089 mm.
Fossil in the Nottingham deposit.
21.
Biddulphia Smithii (Ralfs.)
V. H. Biddulphia Smithii (Ralfs.)
Y. H.
Syn., 207.
Eupodiscus radiatus \Vm.
Sm.
= Biddulphia radiatus = Eupodiscus velatus Grev.
Cerataulus Smithii Kalfs., Schmidt, PI.
11(3, tigs.
5, 6.
Cerataulus {Odonttlla) Smithii Ea\k.. Y. H.
Syu., PI.
105, figs.
1, 2 Zygoceros hemitropus L. W. Bail.
Biddulphia hernitropa L. W. Bail.
Not Auliscus radiatus (Ehr. )
Jan. and Rab.
Valve orbicular, convex.
Surface with reticulations 5 in.
.01 mm., radiating from the centre and smaller near the processes which are tapering and truncate.
A short spine is usually found on each side near the circumference about half-way between the processes.
Connective zone narrow, with vertical rows of puncta, 12 in .01 mm.
Diam.
of v. .059 mm.
Charleston, S. C, and southward.
Common at Vera Cruz.
Honduras and Campeachy Bay.
22.
Biddulphia Favus (Ehr.)
V. H. BiddulpMa Favus (Ehr.)
V. H.
Sya., 208, PI.
107, figs.
1, 2, 3, 4.
Triceratium Favus Ehr.. Schmidt, PI, 82, figs.
1, 2, 3^ 4.
Triceratium comptum Ehr.
Triceratium muricatum Brightw.
Triceratium megastomum Brightw.
Triceratium sritulum Brightw.
Triceratium fimbriatum Wal lich .
Triceratium, orientale Bail, and Harv.
Triceratium cuspidatum Janisch.
Ampliitetras cuspidata L. W. Bail.
Valve three or four-angled, with straight or slightly concave or convex sides.
Angles obtuse, occasionally somewhat constricted, each with an obtuse, horn-like process.
Surface slightly convex, divided into large hexagonal cells.
Inner or lower surface of valve finely punctate, the puncta radiating in undulating rows from the centre and extending to processes, about 18 in .01 mm.
in the common forms.
Zonal view quadrangluar, the connective zone marked with puncta in quincunxes.
Frustules attached by alternate angles zigzag in a chain, usually found free.
L. of s. averages in the common forms .
15 mm.
Common in th'3 triangular form along the Atlantic coast, more especially southward, where it is associated with the smaller triangular and quadrangular forms known as Triceratium seifulum.
Rare on the Pacific coast in the quadrate form.
Fossil in the Eastern States in dejiosits later thau the Miocene.
23.
Biddulphia grandis (Br.).
Triceratiuiii (jrainlf Br., M. J.
(18,53), 250, PI.
4, lig.
f^; var.
pentagona Grun., Schmidt, PI.
8G; var.
septa lujulatu Kittou, Schmidt, PI.
85, figs.
1, 2, PI.
86, figs.
11, 12, 13.
Triceratiam poitdcrosum Edwards, Len.
*, -, 105.
Tricerntium Favus septa/iyiilatmn Kition.
Triceratium Strabo, Schmidt, PI.
86, figs.
6, 7.
Valve as in B. Favus but larger, varying from triangular to septangular, the sides occasionally reaching .281 mm.
in length, while the puncta of the lower surface of the valve are frequently about 7 in .01 mm.
Colon.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of California.
24.
BiddulpMa acuta (Klir.).
Triceratium acutum Ehr., V. H.
Syu., PI.
108, fig.
1.
The form known as Triceratium acutum (Ehr.)
is sometimes confounded with acute forms of Triceratium punctatum Br.
Valve triangular, sides slightly convex and processes at the angles somewhat acute.
Surface flat, reticulated, cells hexagonal, 2 in .01 mm.
at the centre, 3 in .01 mm.
at the border, not radiate.
L. of s. .04 mm.
to .122 mm.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States.
It is possible that B. grandis and B. acuta may be considered as varieties of B. Farus.
It is to be noted that B. Favus is recent, not occurring in the Miocene deposits, while B. grandis occurs fossil in California IMiocene and recent in the south Atlantic.
25.
Biddulphia Eobertsiana (Grev.).
Triceratium Rohertsianum Grev., M. M. J.
(1863), 231, PI.
9, fig.
9 (?
); ib.
(1886), PI.
2, fig.
22; Schmidt, PI.
83, figs.
2, 3, 4, 5, 6,7.
Triceratium Rohertsiantim Grev.
var.
macracantha Grun., Schmidt.
PI.
82, figs.
14, 15.
Valve triangular or quadrangular, with convex sides.
Surface convex with hexagonal reticulations averaging .008 mm.
in diameter, scarcely longer toward the sides.
Angles very slightly produced, with elevated, obtuse processes.
Inner plate of valve finely but distinctly punctate as in B.
Farm.
One or more short, stout spines are frequently found on each side near the border.
W. of V. .148 mm.
Gulf of Mexico (Griiudler in Schmidt) ; Pacific soundings, 20° 10' N., 158° 14' W., 2507 fathoms.
Rare.
26.
Biddalphia Campeachiana (Grun.).
Triceratium C'ampeachianum Grun., M. ^[.
J.
(1874), 319; Schmidt, PI.
78, figs.
18, 19, 20.
Amphipentas Campeachiana (Grun.)
De Toni.
Valve pentagonal with sides tumid at the middle, j^roducing a decagonal outline.
Processes at the angles conical, obtuse.
Surface almost flat, reticulated, the cells hexagonal, nearly equal, 2 in .01 mm.
The inner plate of valve is punctate as m B, Favus.
W. of V. .072 ram.
to .125 mm.
Campeachy Bay.
27.
Biddulphia dubia (Br.)
Cleve.
Biddulphia dubia (Br.)
Cleve.
"Vega," 508.
Triceratium dtibium Br., T. M. S. (1859), 180, PI.
9, fig.
12; Schmidt, PI.
78, figs.
26-30.
Triceratium bullosum Witt.
Triceratium {or Hiddulphia) bicorne Cleve, Diat.
West Ind., 17, PI.
5, fig.
30; Schmidt, PI.
78, figs.
24, 25.
Amphitetras bicornis (Cleve) De Toni.
Valve rhombic-lanceolate, the ends j^roduced into obtuse processes, while the sides are turgid and extended into rounded projections.
Abnormal forms are frequent.
Surface reticulate, the unequal, usually hexagonal cells averaging .005 mm.
in diameter.
Within the cells indistinct granulations are seen.
L. of V. .075 mm.
Atlantic coast, southward, not common; California (Cleve).
28.
BiddulpMa reticulata Roper.
Biddulphia reticulata Roper, T. M. S. (1859), 14, PL 2, figs.
13, 14, 15; Schmidt, PI.
78. figs.
21-23, PI.
121, figs.
11-15.
Odontella?
reticulata (Koper) De Toni.
Valve elliptical-lanceolate or rhombic with turgid sides.
Processes conical and obtuse.
Surface coai'sely reticulate, the reticulations 1 to 1^ in ,01 mm., the inner layer with puncta from 6 to 9 in .01 mm., resembling those of B. Favus.
Connective zone with parallel rows of puncta about 5 in .01 mm.
L. of v. .122 mm.
Honduras; Pacific coast.
29.
Biddulphia Peruviana Grun.
Biddulphia {tumida Eoper, var.?)
Peruviana Gran., V. H.
Svu., PI.
101, figs.
2, 3.
Biddulphia tumida var.?
Peruviana (Grun.)
De Toni.
(Appears to ditTer from B. tumida (Ehr.?)
Koper in the greater promiuence of the hyaline band.)
Valve orbicular-rhomboidal or elliptical-lanceolate, convex, with depressions at the centre and toward the processes, slightly constricted above the connective zone and surrounded by a narrow, apparently hyaline, band.
Processes swelling near the ba^e aud small and obtuse at the apex.
Surface with unequal, hexagonal reticulations, from 2 to 4 in .01 mm., extending to the apices of the processes on which they are smaller.
The inner plate or floor of cell wall is distinctly punctate.
Two or three strong spines are usually found on each side near the margin.
Connective zone with diagonal reticulations about 7 in .01 mm.
L. of v. 138 mm.
Peruvian guano (Grun.
); Callao, Peru.
Possibly to bo met with northward.
30.
Biddulphia Keeleyi Royor.
Biddulphia Keeleyi Bover, Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila.
(^1898), 4t)9, PI.
24, fig.
4.
Valve broadly rhombic-elliptical, rounded at the ends.
Surface slightly convex, without depression, with unequal, hexagonal reticulations, about 2 in .01 mm.
; puncta within the reticulations about 8 in .01 mm.
Three stout spines are placed on each side near the margin.
Processes inflated at the base, small at the apex and placed, not at the ends of the valve, but obliquely opposite,' near the ends.
L. of v. , 148 mm.
U. S. S. ' •■ Tuscarora, " soundings, Lat.
36° 12' xS., Long.
123° 11' W., 1605 fathoms.
Coast of California (F. J. Keeley); Monterey Bay (J.
A. Shulze).
Rare.
31.
BiddulpMa consimilis (Gnm.).
Trkeratium consimile Gnin., V. H.
Syn., PI.
103, fig.
2; Schmidt, PI.
84, figs.
13, 14.
Valve triangular, with sides slightly convex.
Angles rounded, filled with the prominent cylindrical, short and rounded processes.
Surface nearly flat, with reticulations svhich average .008 mm.
in •diam., varying from triangular to hexagonal, Avith unequal sides.
The inner plate of the valve is rather coarsely punctate, the puncta being about 5 in .01 mm.
L. of s. .120 mm.
to .198 mm.
Campeachy Bay.
Fossil in Santa Monica dejDosit.
32.
Biddulphia convexiuscula (Griin.).
Triceratiwn convexiusculum Gran., Schmidt, PI.
151, figs.
5, 6.
Valve triangular, sides convex.
Angles rounded, with short, truncate processes.
Surface convex, with puncta about 7 in .01 mm., radiating from the centre.
On one or both sides of each angle is a short spine.
On the connective zone the puncta are in diagonal rows.
L. of s. averages .052 mm.
The general appearance is that of a three-sided form of BidcUdphia lievis, from which it diffei's in the puncta of the connective zone which are usually larger in the former.
Campeachy Bay; Honduras; stomachs of fish from coast of South Carolina ; Tampa Bay, Fla. 33.
BiddulpMa orbiculata (Shadb.).
Triceratium orbiculatum Shadb., T. M. S. (1854), 14, PI.
1, fig.
6.
Triceratium {orbiculatum Shadb.
var. )
elongatum Gran.
Triceratium Shadboltianum Grev., Schmidt, PI.
80, fig.
18-20.
Triceratium gibbosum Bail and Har., Schmidt, PI.
80, fig.
13.
Triceratium gibbosmn var.
elongatum Grun., Schmidt, PL 80, fig.
21.
Lnmpriscus Kittoni A. S., Schmidt, PI.
80, fig.
11.
BiddulpMa crenulata W. C. Walker.
Valve triangular, with convex sides, or orbicular.
Outline 46 entire or crenulate.
Processes three or more, large, considerably elevated and truncate.
Surface slightly convex, with puncta radiating from the centre, about 11 in .01 mm., becoming much finer at the apex of the processes.
A short strong spine is frequently found quite near one or more of the processes.
Connective zone occasionally much elongated and annulate, with puncta in longitudinal rows.
Diam.
averages .092 mm.
Honduras; Colon.
Both Greville and Ralfs separate Triceratium orhiculatian Shadb.
from the form described under that name by Brightwell and named by Greville T. Shadboltianum on account of the absence of spines in the former.
In material from Honduras many variations occur in forms which, I believe, belong to one species.
In some valves no spines are seen, in others one or more may be noticed, and occasionally two spines are found near one process.
Some valves are quite orbicular and occasionally somewhat elliptical, while others, chiefly the smaller, ai-e more nearly triangular.
It is in the smaller, triangular valves that the great extension of the connective zone is seen, as in the form named T. gibbosiun var.
elongatiim Grun.
Owing to the incomplete description by Bailey and Harvey, who state that forms from Tahiti have " a surface as in T. Wilkesii," and to the uncertain figure, it is difficult to reach an absolute conclusion as regards the identity of their form with the present species.
The description above jriven is frou) valves found at Honduras, where occur also forms with three or four processes and with crenulate margins, as in Lampri^cus Kittoni, but otherwise similar to the triangular forms.
34.
Biddulphia verrucosa Boyer.
Biddulphia verrucosa Boyer, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
(1898), 468, ri.
24, lig.
5.
Valve suborbicular, convex.
Processes very large, cylindrical, truncate.
Surface coai'sely reticulate, the reticulations unequal, irregular, about 2 in .01 mm.
Within the reticulations are coarse puncta about 3 in .01 mm.
L. of v. .138 mm.
Fossil at Redondo Beach.
Very rare.
This form, which approaches the Cerataultis group, is distinguished by the encrusted or warty appearance of the surface.
35.
Biddulphia turgida (Elir.)
Wm.
Sm.
Bkldulphia turgida (Ehr.)
Wm, Sm., Brit.
Diat., 2, 50, PI.
62, fig.
384.
Ceratnulus turgidus Ehr.
Schmidt, PI.
116, figs.
1-3, PI.
115, figs.
12-14.
Odontella turgida Wm.
Sm.(?
), De Toni.
Valve elliptical, convex.
Surface Avith undulating rows of fine puucta about 9 in .01 mm., and with numerous minute spurs at irregular intervals.
Processes veiy large, cylindrical, truncate, placed obliquely opposite near the ends, and, owing to the torsion of the frustule, directed sideways.
Between the processes two stout spines, frequently forked at the ends in perfect specimens, are placed, one on each side, obliquely opposite, near the border.
Around the margin a row of very short spines frequently occurs.
L. of V. .132 ram.
In zonal view^ the frustule appears subglobose and twisted on its longitudinal axis in such a way that the edges of the valves appear undulating and the connective zone "sigmoid."
Puncta on the connective zone in diagonal rows about 11 in .01 mm.
In var.
midtispina Grun.
the two large spines are usually replaced by from two to four shorter ones on each side, and numerous short, stout spines are found on the circumference, but variations occur.
(Biddulphia turgida (Ehr.)
Ralfs, Denticella turgida Ehr.
and Odontella turgida Kiitz.
are not equivalent.
They are, possibly, forms of Biddulphia granulata Roper.)
Atlantic and Pacific coasts.
Fossil in the deposits of California, Atlantic City and Bridgeton, N. J.
In the Californian deposits numerous variations occur.
The form figured in Schmidt's Atlas, PI.
115, fig.
15, under the name of Cerataulus Johnsonianus var.
appears to me to approach nearer to turgida than to Greville's form.
Both it and var.
multispina Grun.
are not uncommon in the Redondo Beach deposit.
36.
Biddulphia Californica (A. S.).
Cerataulus Californica A. S., Schmidt, PI.
115, figs.
2, 3, 4.
Valve broadly ovate-eUiptical or suborbicular, with very short, truncate, hyaline processes.
Surface somewhat flat, studded with minute spurs, finely reticulated, the reticulations hexagonal, about 8 in .01 mm.
Border of valve with a row of small spurs.
Two very short spines are usually found on each side near the border.
L. of V. .198 mm.
Numerous forms are found in the Redondo Beach deposit, which merely differ in outline and in the number and prominence of the spines which are sometimes absent.
Fossil on the Pacific coast.
37.
Biddulphia ovalis (A. S.).
Cerataulus ovalis A. S., Schmidt, PI.
115, figs.
5, 6, 7.
Valve broadly elliptical with short, truncate processes.
Surface flat, with fine, hexagonal reticulations about 8 in .01 mm., without spines or sj^urs.
L. of v, .039 mm.
Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal., and Weymouth, X. J.
38.
Biddulphia laevis Ehr.
Biddulphia lavis Ehr., Berl.
Akad.
(1843), 12-3.
Cerataulus Imvis (Ehr.)
Kalfs, Prif., 847.
Cerataulus Icevis (Ehr.)
Schmidt, PI.
lltJ, figs.
13, 14, 15.
Denticella Imvis Ehr.
Cerataulus Icevis thermalis Grun., Schmidt, PI.
116, figs.
8-11.
Islhmia polymorphaMoni., Kiitz.
Bacill., 188.
Odontella polyiiiorpJia Kiitz.
Cerataulus thermalis (Menengh.)
Ralfs.
Pleurosira thermalis Meuengh.
Melosira thermalis Meuengh.
fGallionella ?
Bail., Sil.
Jour.
(1842).
104, PI.
2, fig.
8.
{B. snbcequa K.?
and B. obtusa (K. ) Grun., of some authors, have been confounded with B. l(evis Ehr.)
Valve suborbicular or occasionally subtriangular, convex, with short, truncate processes.
Surface with fine puncta, averaging 13 in .01 mm., which radiate in more or less curved lines from the centre.
Two small spines are placed obliquely opposite about half the radius from the centi-e.
Entire surface apparently covered with very minute spur-like elcvatious which are usually in%'isible under ordinary illumination.
The puncta on the couuective zone are slightly smaller than those on the valve.
L. of v. .066 ram.
Generally distributed along the Atlantic and Pacific coasts.
Abundant at Port Townsend, Wash. Fossil iu salt marsh deposits of Kansas, Utah, Nebraska and Michigan.
Also occui*s iu freshwater lakes.
39.
Biddulphia Thumii (A. S.).
Cerataulus Thumii A. S., Schmidt, PI.
IIT), fig.
1.
Cerataulus Iluugaricus Pant.?
Foss.
Bacill.
Ung., C, PI.
26, fig.
375?
Valve suborbicular, with largo, short, truncate processes.
Surface with fine puncta confused and scattered at the centre, from which they radiate in undulating linos toward the processes and the circumference where they average 11 in .01 mm.
In large specimens the surface slightly undulates between the processes.
L. of V. .204 mm.
Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal.
Rare.
The Californian form is not distinct, I think, from the Hungarian, except that in the latter, in the few specimens I have seen, the puncta are larger and more confused.
40.
BiddulpMa Circinus (Bail.)
V. H. Biddulphia Circinus (Bail.)
V. H., Diat., fig.
200.
Zpgocerod Circinus BaiL, N.
Sp., PI., figs.
19, 20 ; V. H. Syu , PI.
105, fig.
13. '
' Valve elliptical, rising into the form of a truncated cone, from the top of which, at each end, extends a long, inwardly bent spine.
A few much smaller, intermediate spines are scattered over the surface which is slightly rugose and punctate, the puncta more or less radiate, averaging 7 in .01 mm.
Processes wanting.
Connective zone well developed, with fine puncta, from 9 to 13 in .01 mm., in longitudinal rows.
L. of v. .083 mm.
Fossil at Richmond (Bail.)
; Santa Monica (Grun.
).
Rare.
41.
BiddulpMa quadricornis (Grun.).
Zygoceros quadricornis Griin., V. H.
Syn., PI.
105, figs.
5-7. '
'^ Valve orbicular or suborbicular, having four spines which I'ise from the four corners of the summit of the truncated cone.
Otherwise apparently as in B. Circinus, of which it is, probably, a variety.
Fossil at Nottingham (Grun.).
42.
BiddulpMa Balaena (Ehr.)
Br.
BiddulpMa Baloena (Ehr.)
Br., M. M. J.
(1859), 181, PL 9, fig.
15; Schmidt, PL 131, figs.
5, 6.
Zygoceros Balcena Ehr., Mik., PL 35, A, 33, fig.
17.
Zygoceros radiatus Bail.
Triceratium formosum Br., and Triceratium formosum pentagonalis A. S., Schmidt, PL 79, figs.
2, 3, 4.
Valve elliptical or angular, in zonal view quadrangular.
Surface flat or somewhat concave, slightly elevated at the ends or angles, finely reticulate, the hexagonal reticulations about 5 to 8 in .01 mm., radiating from the centre in the smaller valves, but in the larger, elliptical forms, transverse in the middle.
Connective zone with parallel rows of puncta, smaller than those on the valve, about 5 in .01 mm.
L. of v. in elliptical form .231 mm.
^ear Biddnlphia ardica (Br.
), but with much finer reticulationsCleve states (Arct.
Dial., 15) that these forms are not specifically distinct, as he has seen a transitional form between Zygoceros Bakena E. and Tricerathnn arctlcum Br.
I have noticed a triangular form in material from McCormack Bay, Greenland.
The elliptical form of the same locality shows markings closely resembling those of B. ardica, each reticulation containing 3 or 4 puncta on the upper surface of valve.
Greenland (Cleve); Nova Scotia; McCormack Bay, Greenland; fossil at San Luis Obispo, Cal.
(J. D. Cox); Nottingham (Br.).
43.
Biddulphia arctica (Br.).
Triceratiam arctionn Br., jr. M. J.
(18.53), 2o0.
PI.
4, figs.
10, 11 ; Schmidt, PI.
79, figs.
5-18.
J'l.
81, figs.
3, 4, PI.
94, figs.
1, 2, 3.
Tricerathim Wilkesii var.
Bail, and Harv.
Amphiietras Wilkesii Bail, and Harv.
2'rigouium arcticum Cleve.
Valve elliptical (?)
or angular.
Sides straight, convex or concave, with rounded angles which are scarcely elevated.
Surface of valve rather coarsely reticulate or cellular, the cells irregularly pentagonal or hexagonal, radiating from centre and usually sliglitly larger near the .«emi-radius, distinctly punctate near the perimeter.
Angles finely punctate, the rows of puncta slightly converging toward the apex where they are smaller.
Connective zone with coarse puncta in longitudinal rows.
Zonal view usually quadrangular but occasionally showing the surface much elevated.
A species quite variable in size and outline.
By careful examination a fine hexagonal punctation may be seen around the margin of the cells and upon (he upper surface of the valve, resembling the arrangement in certain forms of Coscinodiscus (see text of PI.
165 of Schmidt's Atlas).
Abundant on the Pacific coast; Cam|)eachy Bay ( Gruu. )
; fossil in California and very rarely at Asbury Park, N. J.
The following are considered varieties: B. ardica Campeachiana (Grun. )
= Triceratiam arcticum forma Campeachiana Grun., triangular, with straight sides.
B. arctica Californica (Grun.)
= Triceratiam ardicam var.
Galifornica Grun., with produced angles, concave sides and hyaline centre.
Occui*s threeaud four-sided.
B. arctica Kergnelemis (Grun.)
= Triceratiam ardica var.
Kerguelemis Gran., differing from Calif ornica in not having the angles produced.
B. ardiea Moniereyi (Br.
)= Tricerathnn Montereyi Br., differs from the type merely in the elevation of the surface which is quite pronounced in certain specimens, but differs in valves of the same frustule.
In specimens in my collection frustules show one valve with no elevation and the other with a very marked central protuberance.
In another frusLule both valves are much elevated at the centre as in those described by Grove and Stout {Dial.
Oamaru, PI.
11, fig.
25).
£.
aretica quadrangular is (Grev. )
= Triceratium quadrangulare ■Orev., which apparently differs only in a slight constriction of the angles from other quadrate forms.
B. aretica pentagona =z Triceratium arcticum, forma j)enfagona, from Redondo Beach.
B. aretica sexangulata= Triceratium arcticum sexangulatum, a very beautiful six-sided form occurring in a sounding from the Pacific, west of California (not T. sexangulatum Grev.)
(Cnll.
J.
A. Shulze).
According to Van Heurck {Diat., p. 61), the form known as Triceratium formosum Br.
is equivalent to Biddulphia Bakena.
The pentagonal form shows puncta within the reticulations similar to those in the type form of B. aretica.
Owing to the numerous variations of Balcena and aretica, it becomes difficult to separate them satisfactorily.
44.
Biddulphia Heilpriniana (K. and S.)Triceratitnn Heilprinianum (K. and.
S.) Torr.
Bull.
(1889), 20S, PI.
93, fig.
3.
Valve triangular, sides straight or but slightly convex or concave.
Angles elevated into conical, obtuse processes to a height about equal to one-eighth of the width of valve.
Surface, with its central portion having about the same elevation as the angles and flattened at the top, with rounded, unequal puncta, about 4 in -01 mm., and extending to the summit of the processes where they .are slightly smaller.
L. of v. .064 to .135 mm.
Atlantic City artesian well.
Rare.
45.
Biddulphia vesiculosa (Ag.).
Diatoma vesiculosum Ag., Sys., 7 (1824).
Jsthmia vesiculosa Ag., Consp.
Crit., 55.
Amphitetras antedilnviana Ehr., Berl.
Akad.
(1839), Kiitz.
Bacill.^ 135, PI.
19, fig.
3, PI.
29, fig.
86.
Amphitetras crux Br.
J'riceratium antedilumanum Grun.
Biddulphia antediluviana (Ehr.)
V. H.
Syn., 207, PI.
109, figs.
4, 5, PI.
100, figs.
3, 4.
Valve quadrangular, or rarely pentagonal, with more or less concave sides and rounded angles.
Processes very short and truncate, frequently unequal.
Surface with coarse, rounded, quadrate or hexagonal reticulations, smaller at the centre from which they radiate, and averaging 3 in .01 mm., their walls often considerably thickened.
The secondary layer is punctate, but the puncta, owing to the thickness of the cell walls, are difficult to see in most specimens.
Ends of processes very minutely and iudisiinctly punctate.
L. of s. .059 mm.
to .115 mm.
Edgarton Harbor (Bail.
); L. I.
Sound (Lewis); St. Mary's river, Ga. (Lewis); Savannah (Lewis); Provincetown, Mass.
; Port Townsend, Wash. Fossil at Asbury Park, N. J.
A pentagonal form occurs fossil at Asbury Park, which is not the same as Amphipentas alternans Ehr.
46.
Biddulphia deoipiens Grun.
Biddulphia decipicns Grun., V. H.
Syn., PI.
100, figs.
3, 4.
Amphitetras miinita Grev., M. M. J.
(1861), 77, PI.
9, fig.
11?.
AmpJiitetras (Biddulphia) alternans^ H. L. Smith, Chrisiian.
in "The Microscope " (1887), 67, fig., p. 113; Schmidt, PI.
98, fig.
25 (without name).
The e(iuivalcnce of Amphitetras in'nnda Grev., as doubtfully given by Van Heurck, is too uncertain to give priority to the name, as Greville, in both description and figure, omits any reference to processes, surface or spines.
The processes are, however, frequently quite indefinite and the spines arc more often broken oft.
Valve rhomboidal with the sides turgid and produced, giving,, therefore, a cruciform outline.
Surface rising suddenly from near the margin into an ellipsoidal elevation, the major diameter of which is at right angles to the major axis of valve, with hexagonal reticulations, about 5 in .01 mm., at the centre, from which they radiate toward the i)rocesses and rounded angles (f the sides where they arc about 9 in .01 mm.
Processes inftated at the base, small and obtuse.
At the margin of the elevation, placed obliquely on each side, a strong spine projects.
L. of V. .059 mm.
to .072 mm.
Fossil at Nottingham and Atlantic City.
47.
Biddulphia elegans (Grev.).
Amphitetras elegans Grev., T. M. S. (1866), 9, PI.
2, fig.
24.
Triceratium eleqans (Grev.)
Grun., V. H.
Syn., PI.
109, fig.
1; Schmidt, PI.
99, figs.
10-13.
Valve quadrangular, with sides slightly concave.
Angles with short, cylindrical processes.
Surface depressed at the centre, with rounded cells, averaging 5 in .01 mm., radiating toward the angles where they are smaller and more crowded.
The absence of reticulation half-way between the centre and processes frequently produces, under low powers, the appearance of an inscribed square.
L. of s. .092 mm.
Campeachy Bay (Schmidt); fossil at Monterey, Santa Monica and Redondo Beach, Cal.
48.
Biddulphia biquadrata (Jan.).
Triceratium biquadraium Jan., Schmidt, PI.
98, figs.
4,5, 6.
Valve quadrangular with slightly concave sides.
Angles rounded, with short, truncate processes.
Surface with coarse reticulations, about 2^ in .01 mm., the walls of which correspond, for the rfost part, with the meshes of a coarser network which is unequally but symmetrically distributed, producing, by its peculiar arrangement, the appearance, under low powers, of an inscribed square.
L. of s. .112 mm.
The chief distinction between this form and B. Peniacrinus is in the greater coarseness of the reticulations in the former and the closer correspondence of its anastomosing network and the cell walls.
It is, apparently, intermediate between B. vesiculosa and B. Pentacrinus.
Yucatan; Gulf of California.
49.
Biddulphia Pentacrinus (Ehr.).
Amphipentas Pentacrinus Ehr., Berl.
Akad.
(1810), 10 ; Mik., PI.
19 fig.
59; Kiitz., Bacill., 136, PL 29, fig.
92.
Triceratium Pentacrinus (Ehr.)
Wall., Schmidt, PI.
98, figs.
7-13, 18.
Amphipentas alternans Ehr.
Amphitetras arisata Shadb.
Amphitetras omnia Shadb.
Triceratium quadrinotatum A. S., Schmidt, PI.
152, fig.
31.
Valve quadrangular or pentagonal, with concave sides.
Angles obtuse with short, truncated processes.
Surface nearly flat, with hexagonal reticulations, 5 to 7 in .01 mm., radiating from the centre.
The walls of the reticulations being more robust in some parts than in others, there is produced an appearance of a coarse network of various design extending over the entire surface.
A minute spur-like projeclion is frequently found between each angle and near the circumference in both the quadrangular and pentagonal forms.
L. of s. .092 mm.
Atlantic and Pacific coasts More abundant in Gulf of Mexico and southward.
50.
Biddulphia Kainii (Schultze).
2'rlceratium ^a^■/u^■ Schultze, K. and S., Bull.
Torr.
CI.
(1889).
76, PI.
89, fig.
5, Pi.
92, iig.
3.
Triceratium Kainii constrictum Schultze, K. and S..
I. e. Tricei'utium multifrons Brun., Diat.
foss.
Jap., 63, Pi.
6, fig.
2.
Valve triangular or quadrangular, with sides varying from straight to deeply convex.
Angles more or less cuneate, obtuse, rarely constricted, separated from the other part of valve by strong costie which are equidistant between centre and apices.
Surface slightly convex, with puncta about 5 in .01 mm., radiating from a hyaline centre, or, occasionally, scattered L of s. -056 to .138 mm.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States.
A quadrate form has beeu found by ]Mr. John A. Shulze in material from Mays Landing artesian well, N. J.
51.
Biddulphia Tabellarium (Hr.).
Trice rat iiaii Tahellariitm Br., M. M. J.
(183G), 275, PI.
17. fig.
15; Schmidt, PI.
77, fijjs.
1-9.
Triceratium Tabellarium diplostictum Grun., Schmidt, PI.
77, figs.
1, 2.
Trie era t iu m Jo h nxo n ii Ral fa., Prit., 854.
Triceratium vennlosum Grev.
Triceratium brecinerciuvi Grev.
Triceratium pallidum Grev.
Valve triangular, with somewhat acute angles and straight or slightly convex sides having an indented or scalloped appearance caused by the extension inwards, for a short distance, of several iiostx which are usually curved at the extremities.
Surface slightly elevated at the centre and at the angles, with a few scattered puncta more numerous at the angles.
L. of s. .06 mm.
to -14 mm.
In certain specimens indistinct lines radiate from the centre and in conjection with two of the partial costse from each side form a three-lobed figure.
In most of the specimens each of the angles is distinctly separated from the centre by an irregular line.
Campeachy Bay; Honduras.
52.
Biddulphia alternans (Bail.)
V. H. Biddulphia alternans V. H.
Syn., 208, PI.
113, figs.
4-7.
Triceratium alternans Bail., M.
Obs., 40 ; Sil.
Jour.
(1845^, PI.
4, fig.
25 ; ib., M. Ex.
S., fig.
55, 56 ; Schmidt, PI.
78, figs.
9-17.
Triceratium s-p.?
Bail., Sil.
Jour.
(1845), 386.
Triceratium variabile Br.
Valve triangular or rarely quadrangular, with sides straight or, usually, somewhat unevenly concave.
Angles obtuse, slightly elevated, separated fi-om central portion by costate lines.
Central part hexagonal in outline, marked by several lines resembling costse which extend indefinitely from the periphery in various directions, usually toward the centre.
Surface with puncta of irregular shape, larger at the centre, about 5 in .01 mm., and diminishing toward the apices of the angles on Avhich they are usually arranged in rows about 8 in .01 mm.
Zonal view quadrate, angles not prolonged.
Connective zone narrow.
L. of s. .05 mm.
Abnormal variations occur with unequal sides.
Common along the Atlantic coast, especially in ^estuaries, but not abundant; Puget Souud; fossil in rice fields of Georgia and California (Bail.
), and in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States and of California; Pleistocene ciay, Harvey Cedars, X. J.
53.
Biddulphia trisulca (Bail.).
Triceratium trisulcum Biil., (Ms.) in Prit., 854 ; Schmidt, PI.
78, figs.
5-8, PI.
112, figs.
17.
18.
Triceratium talidum Grun., Schmidt.
PI.
94, fig.
5.
Valve triangular with concave sides and rounded angles which are elevated into large, globose processes.
Surface with rounded, scattered puncta averaging 1 in .01 mm.
Angles with indefinitely angular reticulations about 4 in .01 mm.
Connective zone with puncta similar to those on the surface of valve.
In one specimen observed, from Redondo Beach, in a continuation of an unusually well -developed connective zone overlapping one valve, the punctation assumed the character of large hexagonal reticulations about 2\ in .01 mm.
L. of s. averages .15 mm.
Triceratium tumidum Grev.
from Barbadoes, is very near thi3 form.
Campeachy Bay.
Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal.
54.
Biddulphia costulata (Grun.).
Triceratium tumidum Grev.
var.
costulata Grun ; Schmidt, PI.
78, fig.
1, PI.
88, fig.
17.
Valve triangular with .straight or slightly concave sides and rounded angles, elevated into large, rounded processes.
Surface as in B. trisulca, except that the puncta on the angles in the specimens observed are about in .01 mm.
Partial costie, two to four on each side, extend inwards for varying distances from the perimeter.
L. of s. 148 mm.
Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal.
Rare.
55.
Biddulphia condecora (Khr.).
Triceratium condecorum Ehr., Berl.
Akad.
(1844), 272; Schmidt, PI.
7G, fig.
28 (not 27 j.
See remarks under B. Americana.
Valve triangular, or irregularly quadrilateral, with sides straight or but slightly convex or concave, and obtuse angles.
Surface flat or slightly depressed toward the centre, having rounded puncta arranged in rows which radiate in undulating lines from the centre at which and on the margin they are slightly smaller, averaging 4 in .01 mm.
L. of s. in type specimens .145 mm., but occasionally much smaller.
Distinguished from B. Americana not only by the undulatious of the rows of puncta, but also by their more pearly character.
Specimens from Nottingham vary cousiderably in outline, .several having but two angles and others having the form of a trapezium.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States.
56.
Eiddulphia (1) subrotundata uV.
?.
t. Triceratium subrotnndatam A. S., Schmidt, PI.
93, fig.
1.
Valve orbicular-triangular, with very convex sides and indefinite angles.
Surface flat, with subqiiadrate or hexagonal reticulations, radiating from the centre, where they are about 5 in .
(U mm., and increasing to about 3 in .01 mm., but suddenly diminishing at the circumference.
W. of v. .092 mm.
Sciircely diHeriug, except, in outline, from Co-^duodiscus.
Fossil at Nottingham.
Very rare.
57.
Biddulphia Americana (Ralfs).
Triceratium Americanum Ralfs, Prit., 855 ; Schmidt, PI.
76, fig.
3 (?
), 27 (see note).
Iriceratium obtusum'Ehv., Amer., 137 {?)
; Mik., PI.
18, fig.
48 (?)
(not 49?).
Triceratium Amblyoceros Br.
Triceratium obscurum Grev.
forma minor A. S., SchmicU, PL 76, fig.
5.
This is a smaller form of B. Americana.
I have noticed several intermediate variations which differ only in size and the convexity of the sides.
Greville remarks of his species from Naparima that it resembles T. condecorum, except that " the radiating lines of puncta are perfectly straight "^ Valve triangular or occasionally irregularly quadrangular, with straight, convex or slightly concave sides and obtuse angles.
Surface flat, having rounded or subquadrate reticulations, 3 or 4 in .01 mm., which in well -developed specimens radiate from the centre.
At the margin the cells are smaller.
L. of s. averages .115 mm.
Quite variable in size and outline.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States.
^ Much confusion has arisen as to the distinction between Triceratium Americanum Ralfs and Triceratium condecorum Br., due partly to Ralfs' description of the former as equivalent to T. Amblyoceros Br., which in turn has been confused with T. Amblyoceros Ehr., and to the mistake made by Schmidt, as suggested by Gr.
and St., in numbering figs.
27 and 28 in PI.
76 of the Atlas, fig.
27 being T. Americanum and fig.
28 condecorum.
As T. condecorum is described as having undulating rows of granules, and as T. Americanum is said to resemble T. arcticum (see Roper), except in the angles, it may be as well to base the distinction between the two forms upon the undulations of the rows of radiating granules and upon the coarseness of the granules.
It becomes, however, difficult to separate the smaller forms of the two species.
Some specimens from Nottingham vary considerably in outline, some approaching T. subrotundatum A. S., while others are near T. parallelum Grev., as has been noticed by Grove and Sturt in forms from Oamaru.
Triceratium Americanum Ralfs is, probably, the same as T. Amblyoceros of Brightwell, but as Brightwell's form is not T. Amblyoceros of Ehrenberg, which in outline, if not in its centre, is probably Actinoptychus Amblyoceros A. S., Ralfs' name must stand as representing form fig.
27, PI.
76, of the Atlas.
De Toui unfortunately (p. 1396) gives Actinoptychus Amblyoceros A. S., Atlas, PI.
1, fig.
25, as equivalent to forms of PI.
76, figs.
3 and 28.
A glance at fig.
25, PI.
1, will show that it is entirely different from figs.
3 and 28 in PI.
76.
In fact, fig.
25, PL 1, is an Actinoj)tychus as given by Schmidt, while the other figures belong to Triceratium.
Triceratium Amblyoceros E. and T. Marylandicum Br.
may be abolished as forms of Triceratia and become Actinoptychus Amblyoceros (Ehr.)
A. S., or, as appears to be necessary, Schuettia Amblyoceros (Ehr.)
De Toni.
It is probable that T. obtusum Ehr.
as figured in Mik., PL 18, fig.
48, is the form uuder consideration, as there is apparently no other in the deposit, except possibly T. interpunctatum, to which it may be made to apply.
By priority, therefore, the name would become Biddulphia obtusa (Ehr.
), but on account of the uncertainty it may be as well to retain Ralfs' name.
58.
Biddulphia Antillarum (Cleve).
Triceratium Antillarum Cleve, Diat.
W.
Ind., 16, PL 5, fig.
29 ; Schmidt, PI.
99, fig.
14. ?
Triceratium punctatum Br.
formse hexagona and pentugona Grnn.
; Schmidt, PI, 81, figs.
6, 7.
Amphipentas Antillarum (Cleve) De Toni.
?
B.
{Ampfiipentas) punctata V. H., Diat., fig.
206.
Valve polygonal, with produced angles and concave sides.
Surface slightly elevated at the centre, with puncta about 4 ia .01 mm., rounded, radiating and extending to the ends of the angles, which appear like processes.
L. of v. .115 mm.
Very near certain forms of B. Reticulum (Ehr.
), from which it apparently differs in the radiation of the puncta and in the form of the angles.
Campeachy Bay (Schmidt).
Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal., in the hexagonal form, but very rare.
69.
Biddulphia interpunctata (Gnin.).
Iricerutium iuterpiDictatum Grun., Schmidt, PI.
76, fig.
7.
According to I)e Toni (947), near T. elcga/ts Grev., which in turn is said by Grev.
to be T. obtusum Ehr., but I think the form is quite distinct.
Valve triangular, sides straight, and angles rounded.
Surface flat, having rounded puncta nearly equal, about 3 in .01 mm., with here and there at intervals much smaller puncta.
L. of s. .075 mm.
to .115 mm.
A form apparently quite constant.
Near B. Americana Ralfs, from which it may be distinguished not only by the interpuuctation, but also by the large, round and scattered puncta.
Under low powers its color is blue.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States.
60.
Biddulphia hebetata Uirun ).
Triceratium irrcgulare var.
hehetata Grnn., V. H.
Syn., PI.
Ill, fig.
10.
Triceratium iutpar A. S., Schmidt, PI.
151, figs, yi-34.
It is quite difficult to separate Triceratium impar A. S. from certain forms of B. Americaiia and from the present form, which is quite common in the Petersburg deposit.
The peculiarity of the angles, however, appears to be sufficient to separate it from T. irrcgulare Grev.
Valve triangular, with somewhat unequal sides and unequally convex margins.
Angles rounded, one of them having puncta about 9 in .01 mm., while in the other two the puncta are about 5 in .01 mm.
Surface flat, with subquadrate reticidatious ai)out 4 in .01 mm., radiating from the bentre toward the margin, where they are about 5 in .01 mm.
L. of s. .072 mm.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of Petersburg and Richmond, Va> 61.
BiddnlpMa heteropora (Gnin.).
Triceratium [Biddulpkia) Jieteroporum Grun., V. H.
^yn., PI.
112, fig.
2.
Valve triangular, with nearly straight sides and Slightly unequal and somewhat obtuse angles.
Surface slightly convex, with rounded puncta which are scattered, except at the augles where they are crowded, and at the margins where they are arranged in short parallel rows, about 5 in .01 mm.
At the centre a small circle of very distinct puncta is seen.
L. of s. .125 mm.
Fossil at Santa Monica (V. H. ), Redondo Beach, Cal.
62.
Biddulphia tessellata (Grev.).
Triceratium tessellatum Grev., T. M. S. (1861), 71.
PI.
8, fig.
14.
Triceratium robustum Grev., T. M. S. (1861), 71, PI.
8, fig.
15.
Triceratium amoenum Grev., 1. c. 75, PI.
9, fig.
7.
Triceratium secernendum A. S., Schmidt, PI.
76, fig.
34. ?
Triceratium Fischeri A. S., Schmidt, PI.
76, fig.
34.
Valve triangular, with straight or slightly concave sides and rounded angles.
Surface usually somewhat convex at the centre, with rounded, elliptical, hexagonal or subquadrate reticulations about 3 in .01 mm., but smaller at the centre, arranged in more or less concentric rows and much smaller at the extremities of the angles which appear hyaline under low magnification, where they are from 8 to 15 in .01 mm.
Small puncta occasionally occur scattered among the larger.
L. of s. .049 mm.
to .099 mm.
Quite variable in size and the coarseness of markings.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States.
As remarked by Cleve, the group to which the present species belongs is " extremely difficult to exactly determine."
The form known as T. tessellatum is well described by Greville, but in the case of robustum and amcenum no sufficiently accurate and distinct differences are noted.
T. robustum is described as having hyaline spaces at the extremities of the angles, but a careful examination will disclose a fine and indistinct punctation extending to the apices.
T. amcenum is merely a small form, while T. secernendum differs from the type only in being somewhat irregular in outline and in having more rounded angles.
Familiarity with the Nottingham deposit will show so many intermediate variations that the number of species might he indefinitely increased, if the distinctions in the above forms are assumed to be specific.
Many forms are with difficulty distinguished from B. Reticulum E. The variations are well shown also in material from Weymouth, N. J., artesian well.
63.
BiddulpMa Reticulum (Ehr.).
Triceratium Reticuluvi Ehr., Berl.
Akad.
(1844), 88 ; Mik., PI.
18, fig.
50, PI.
33, 16, fig.
13 ; Schmidt, PI.
76, fig.
4.
Triceratium sculptum Shadb., T. 31.
S. (1854), 15; PI.
1, fig.
4; Schmidt, PI.
76, figs.
9, 10, 11, 12, 31.
Triceratium obtuswm Br.
(not Ehr.).
Triceratium punctatum Br.
(not Wall.
), Schmidt, PI.
76, figs.
19, 20.
Triceratium Browneanum Grev.
Biddulpliia sculpta (Shadb.)
V. H. Valve triangular or polygonal, with either straight or concave sides.
Angles i-ounded, sometimes produced.
Surface slightly elevated at the centre and at the angles, with pun eta about 4 in .01 mm., angular, irregular and unequal, mostly larger at the centre.
Three or four spines are occasionally noticed about halfway between centre and sides.
Groups of puncta frequently occur arranged in three or four small circles.
Frustules in zonal view but slightly developed.
L. of s. .059 mm.
Generally distributed along the coast, especially southward.
Fossil in the Miocene and later deposits of the Eastern States.
An examination of many specimens from various localities leads me to the conclusion that if we take the form usually called Tri■ceratium punctatum Br.
as the type, the forms named scufptum Shadb., tessellatum Grev., robustum Grev.
and several others may be included as variations of one species.
In order, however, to avoid confusion and because of the difference in the arrangement of puncta between tessellatum and robustum on the one hand and Reticulum and like forms on the other, I consider them for the present as distinct.
The puncta in all the forms above-mentioned are usually more or less irregular, the centre in large specimens is more likely to show the slight depression within the central elevation than in smaller forms, and the sides and angles vary according to the ordinary laws of })lant nutrition.
Shadbolt bases sculptum upon the presence of thi*ee " pseudo-nodule.«, " but, as has been noticed by others, these do not always appear in specimens otherwise similar.
A specimen in my collection from a fossil deposit at Absecon, N. J., in which four " pseudo-nodules " are plainly visible, shows the unstable character of this distinction.
Two to four spurs may be seen on recent specimens from Yucatan and west coast of Florida which show at the same time the markings of T. sculptum.
A specinien from a fossil deposit at Newbern, N. C, which somewhat approaches robustxm shows four very small spines at about one-half the length of radius (see remarks of Schmidt about figs.
4 and 26, PI.
76").
64.
Biddulphia inelegans (Grev.
).
TriceraUum inelegans Grev., T. U. S. (1866), 8, PI.
% fig.
21 ; Schmidt, PI.
81, fig.
16 (not T. obtusum Ehr.,as suggested by several authors, as the angles are not the same).
TriceraUum Jucatense Grun., Schmidt, PI.
76, fig.
13.
Valves triangular, with straight, concave or convex sides which are frequently unequal.
Angles obtuse.
Surface with rounded, irregular and scattered puncta, about 2 or 3 in .01 mm.
At the angles, which are sometimes slightly elevated, the puncta are about 7 or 8 in .01 mm, L. of s. .089 mm.
to .118 mm.
Var.
areopora Grun.
has straight sides and scattered puncta.
Var.
Jiicatensis Grun.
has straight sides and larger puncta.
Var.
mkropora Grun.
has usually smaller and more crowded puncta.
Campeachy Bay.
Fossil at Santa Monica and Redoudo Beach^ Cal.
65.
Biddulphia parvula (Jan. and Rab.).
AmpJiitetras parvula Jan. and Eixb., Diat.
Honduras, 4, PI.
1, fig.
4.
(not A. parvula Grev.).
TriceraUum zonatulatum Grev., T. M. S. (1865), 102, PI.
9, fig.
17 ; Schmidt, PI.
77, figs.
33-37, PI.
94, fig.
9 Valve triangular or quadrangular, with deeply concave sides, producing, in the latter form, a cruciform outline with rounded angles.
Surface of central part hyaline, excepting a few indistinct puncta, but at the angles the puncta are in parallel rows about 8 in .01 mm.
W. of V. .059 mm.
Honduras.
Rare.
The triangular form nut yet noticed iuj North America.
47 66.
Biddulphia semicircularis (Br.).
Triceratium semicirculare Br., M. M. J.
(1853), 259, PI.
4, fig.
21 ; V. H.
S.yn., PI.
126, fig.
20.
Triceratium obtusum Ehr.
(in part), Mik., PI.
18, fig.
49.
Euodia Briglwellii Ealfs, Prit., 852.
Valve lunate, appearing as if divided half-way between the centre and the obtuse ends by two very faint costate lines.
Surface elevated at the centre and at the ends, with rounded puncta, about 3 in ,01 mm., concentric and radiating from a hyaline centre, smaller at the ends.
L. of v. averages .099 mm.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States.
Biddulphia semicircularis Asburyana Boyer, Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila.
(1898), 469, i'l.
2 J, flg.
3.
Valve arcuate with the ends produced and elevated into processes.
Surface not divided by costate lines, convex, with rounded puncta, about 6 in .01 mm.
near the hyaline excentric space, increasing in size to about 1^ in .01 mm.
at the margin.
L. of v. .181.
Not uncoininon iu deposit (Miocene) at Asbury Park, N. J.
67.
Biddulphia Testudo(Brun.).
Biddulphia ?
?
K. and S., Bull.
Torr.
CI.
(1889), 208, PI.
93, fig.
4.
Tabulina Testudo Brun., Diat.
Jiip., 59.
PI.
G, tig.
8; Schiitt, 82, tig.
131.
Referred by De Toni to Cheloniodisois, whicli, however, I think it does not resemble.
It appears to be a true Biddulphia.
Valve suborbicular or oblong-elliptical, somewhat flattened, but ivith four large process-like, slight elevations, two of which are inear each end.
Surface traversed by an indefinite number of wide, hyaline, curved lines.
Two of the lines are more or less transverse to the major axis, while the others appear to radiate indefinitely from a central space and anastomose.
Surface with unequal and scattered puncta, about 8 in .01 mm.
L. of v. .066 mm.
to .089 ram.
Frustule in zonal view quadrangular, the connective zone having transverse rows of puncta more distinct than those on the valve.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of Atlantic City and Weymouth, N. J.
68.
Biddulphia Shulzei Buyer.
Biddulphia Shulzei Boyer, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
(1S98), 470, PI.
24, figs.
7, 8.
Valve elliptical, slightly elevated toward the centre, with a large, rounded, process-like elevation at each end.
Surface with rounded, oblong puncta averaging 5 in .01 mm., but for the most part scattering, leaving numerous hyaline spaces.
Owing to the irregularity in the distribution of the puncta the circumference of the valve appears to show a scalloped border.
L. of v. .115 mm.
Distinguished from B. TesUido in having but two processes and in being without the hyaliue lines which cross the valve of the latter.
A variety with three processes also occurs.
Fossil at Weymouth, X. J.
Doubtful Species.
Triceratium indentatum K. and S. , Torr.
Bull.
(1889), 210, PI.
92, fig.
4; Wolle, PI.
78, fig.
7; De Toni, 942.
From photographs sent me by Dr. Ward, of Poughkeepsie, and Mr. Kain, the following description may be given: Valve triangular, sides •convex.
Angles not elevated, bidentate.
Surface flat, reticulate, the reticulations subquadrate or hexagonal, 2 to 4 in .01 mm., radiating from the centre where they are larger.
L. of s. about .08 mm.
This form may, possibly, be classed among the PseudoCoscinodisci, unless it should prove to be abnormal.
I have not seen any specimens, but the photographs give the general appearance of a small form of B. Amerwana (Ralfs) with the angles notched at the apices.
The absence of processes as well as angles resembling the ordinary types precludes its admission among the Biddulphice until it has been further examined.
Fossil in the artesian well, Atlantic City, N. J. Triceratium (Biddulphia) ohliquum Grun., V. H.
Syn., PI.
110, fig.
11; Wolle, PL 106, fig.
10.
Santa Monica, Cal.
Triceratium Pileolus E., Berl.
Akad.
(1844), 205; Mik., PI.
35^., 21, fig.
17; K. S. A., 140; Weisse, 242, PI.
1, fig.
20; Prit, 856; Wolle, PI.
108, fig.
1.
This form is said by Brightwell to be allied to T. brachiolatum Br.
(J/.
21.
J.
(1853), 248, and (1856) 272), which by Ralfs is said to equal T. Pileus E. Ralfs also gives it as equivalent to T. obtwsum Br.
(not E. ) (see under B. Reticulum (E.), of which it maybe a variation).
As T. obtusum Br.
is the only one of the above forms said to be American, it may be unnecessary to refer to the synonymy further.
Triceratium subcornutum Grun., Schmidt's Atlas, Pj.
99, fig.
15-18.
Campeachy Bay.
Xear T. elegans Grev.?
Triceratium tripartitum Grun., V. H.
Syn., PI.
110, fig.
8; WoUe, PI.
100, fig.
5; De Toni, 945.
Campeachy Bay.
Triceratium uncinatum A. S., Atlas, PI.
94, fig.
4; Wolle, PI.
102, fig.
12.
Pacific coast of Central America.
Species Knowx Only by Name.
Biddulpkia gigas E., Berl.
Akad.
(1844), 265; Mik., PI.
33, 12, fig.
11; Prit., 849; Wolle, PI.
103, fig.
11.
Ralfs (in Prit) gives the following description: " Large, very turgid at the centre, rough, without distinct granules, laterally five-jointed, having a large, oblong (pseudo-) opening at each attenuated apex."
Apparently the above applies to large forms of B. tridens (E. ) with the processes broken off.
The habitat attributed by Ralfs to Ehrenberg is " Bermuda " (Nottingham), but Ehrenbe)-g in Mik., PI.
33, 12, fig.
11, gives the Columbia river as the locality.
From the uncertainty as to description, figure and locality the name may be dropped without loss.
The figure given by Wolle, PI.
103, fig.
12, is, as he states, a Melosira.
See Bailey, Sil.
Jour., 1845, 322, under Gallionella.
Biddulphia perpusilla " Bail.
Coll.," Hahirshaxv Cat., De Toni, 878.
Triceratium aculeatum El.
(not Grev. )
E. , J///;., supplement, 16; DeToni, 972; Wolle, PI.
25, fig.
21.
There is no description given of this form so far as I can discover.
AVolle has made the mistake of taking Greville's description of a form from Barbados {Triceratium aculeatum Grev., T. M. S. (1861), 45) for Ehrenberg's form, and has constructed a " figure suggested by description"!
Ehrenberg' s form is said to be found in the rice fields ot Gsorgia.
Triceratium interruptum " Bail.
Coll.," Habirshaw Cat.
Triceratium Parma Bail.
Prof. H. L. Smith states {The Lcn^, I, p. 232) that Bailey's " Triceratium Parma is only a triangular form" of Stictodi^cH-s Californicu.9. "
Triceratium regina Heib."
of Wolle, PI.
105, fig.
17, is evidently a typographical error and should be Trinacria regina Heib., but Wolle's figure does not correspond to Schmidt's, from which it is said to be taken, and is not the ficrure of a Trinacria.
1900.]
natura.l sciences of thiladelphia.
729 Species Excluded.
Amp hitetras cruciata J Sin.
and Rab,, Died.
Hond., 4, PI.
1, fig.
5; De Toni, 905.
This form is the same as Amphitetras crucijera ECitton, Seier.ce Goss.
(1867), 271, fig.
285; Ralfs mPrit., 858; De Toni, 908, and is also equal to Triceratium cruciatum Leud.
Fort., " Ceylon," 59.
It is a variety of Rhapthoneis, and is given in V. H.
Syn., PI.
116, fig.
16, as Rhaphoneis amjyhiceros tetragona Grun.
, and by Cleve, Vega, pp.
449, 507, PI.
37, fig.
52. b and e, as Rhaphoneis amphiceros cruciata.
Habitat, Honduras.
Amphitetras crueifera Kitton.
See under Amphitetras cruciata.
Amphitetras parallela Y,.
; Mik., PI.
19, fig.
20; Kiitz.
, S. A., 134.
Triceratium parallelum (E. ) Grev.
; T. 31.
S. (1865), 104, PI.
9, figs.
22, 23; Schmidt, PI.
75, figs.
3, 4, 5, 11, 12, 13, PI.
76, figs.
14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 30; var.
Coloniensis Grun., PI.
81, fig.
1; var.
Balearica Grun., PL 81, fig.
2; Grun., Alg.
Nov., 24, 102; V. H.
Syn., PI.
Ill, figs.
1-6; Wolle, PI.
100, figs.
11, 12, 15; Triceratium obtusum (E. ) Cleve, Diat.
W.
Ind., 16; Trieeratium Gruendleri A. S., PI.
75, fig.
10 (?)
; Nothoceratium ?
parallelum (Grev.)
De Toni, 915.
The triangular forms of Triceratium parallelum (E. ) Grev.
and the vars.
Coloniensis and Balearica are abundant in Campeachy Bay.
As remarked by Van Heurck, T. obtusum E. and T. joarallelum (E. ) Grev.
are the same in part.
Ehrenberg's form from Richmond is possibly equivalent to Ralfs' T. Americanum (5. v.), and approaches that from Campeachy Bay, but it is not exactly like Cleve's form in the markings at the centre.
Both these forms and Triceratium Harrisonianum Norm, are true JStictodisci, having the definite arrangement of puncta and the more or less faint parallel or serpentine lines extending inwards from the perimeter.
Quite a large number of diatoms figured by 8chmidt and by Truau and Witt, among them the beautiful Stictodiscus adspersus (A.. S.) T. and W. , are found at Campeachy Bay and are easily mistaken for Biddulphoid forms, the absence of granules at the centre, usually characteristic of Stictodi'scus, not being noticeable in small specimens.
Biddulphia bipons E., Berl.
Akad.
(1844), 273 =:^ Hemiaulus i(Habirshaw).
Biddulphiaf lunata E., Berl.
Akad.
(1844;, 77; Mik., PL 18, fig.
53; Prit., S4d ^ Eunotogramma amphioxys E. , Bcrl.
Akad.
(1855), 302.
Biddulphia membranaeea Cleve is not included among North American forms.
Biddulphia Weissflogii Grun.
in K. and S. , Bull.
Torr.
CI.
(188^), 208, as stated by Mr. Kain later, is Biddulphia Baileyi Wm.
Sm.
^ Biddulphia Mobiliensis (Bail. )
Grun.
Biddulphia Woolmanii K. and S., T. B. C. (1889), 74, PI.
89, fig.
3 ; Wolle, PI.
98, fig.
4 ; De Toni, 872.
This form is identical with Salacia Boryana Pant., a specimen of which I have from Borostelek, Hungary.
Van Heurck (Diaf., 359) considers Salacia or Castracania (new genus created by De Toni for this species, p. 750) as equivalent to Tetraeyclm, and states that it presents the closest affinity to T. Bhombu-^.
There is no doubt, I think, that it is a Tetracyclu^, and I had considered it as probably identical with T. ellipticus (E. ) Grun., having found it in a fossil deposit from Oregon where it was very abundant.
Ehrenberg's material was from the " Columbia river," and, possibly, from the same source (John Day Valley).
There is no difference between the forms from Oregon and those from Atlantic City, except that in the latter they are frequently corroded.
See Schiitt, 102, fig.
.180, where it is given as Tetracyelus (Castracania) Boryanuji (Pant.)
DeToni.
Nothoceratium f parallelum (Grev. )
DeToni.
See under -1»jphiteiras parallela E. Trieeratium Amblyoceros E. = Actinoptychus.
See under Biddulphia Americana.
Trieeratium Brightwelli West = Ditylum.
Trieeratium cinnamomeum Grev., J/.
M. J.
(1863), 232; Wolle, PI.
75, fig.
11, PI.
105, fig.
18= Ce^todi^cus einnam€meu.< (Grev. )
Grun.
Trieeratium crenatum Kitton = Difylum.
Trieeratium cruciatum Lend.
-Fort.
See under Amphitetras craciata.
Trieeratium Ehrenbergii Grun.
= Ditylum.
Trieeratium Gruendleri A. S. See under Amphitetras parallela^ Trieeratium Harrisonianum Norm, and Grev., T. M. S. (1861 \ 76, PI.
9, fig.
9; Schmidt, PI.
75, figs.
14-16, PI.
81, figs.
8.
9, 17, PI.
150, fig.
19.
A species of Stlctodi-<ea-^.
Habitat, Campeachy Bay.
The var.
follda of Walker and Chase (L. N. and R. Uiat.
), PI.
3, tig.
12, is also found.
See yinder Amphitetras parallela.
Triceratium heterostictum A. S. = Cestodiscus cinnamomeus (Grev. )
Grun, var.
minor Grun.
; Schmidt, PI.
151, fig.
28; V. H.
Syn., PI.
126, fig.
2.
Triceratium Marylandicum Br.
= Adinoptychus.
Triceratium obtusum (E. ) Cleve.
See nndex Amp hitetras parallela.
Triceratium parallelum (E. ) Grev.
See under Amphiietras parallela.
Triceratium pileatum Gru.n.
= Pieudo-Coscinodi-iCU-<:, V. H.
Syn., Pi.
112, fig.
3.
Triceratium receptum A. S. (see under T. Shadboltii) ; Schmidt, Atla-'i, PI.
81, fig.
10.
Santa Monica, Cai.
Apparently near the triangular forms of Biddulphiu Icevi-i or convcviwcula.
Triceratium Shadboltii L. W. Bailey, B. J. X. H. (1862), .•^42, PI.
8, figs.
60, 61.
Xot Xorth American.
Habitat, San Antonio Bay, Para river, Brazil.
From the figures it would appear to be a small form of Triceratium .spi7wsu7n Bail.
Schmidt's comparison of Triceratium receptum A. S. (Atl<(-<, PI.
81, fig.
10) to this form is evidently a mistake.
Triceratium striolatum Wm.
Sm.
(not E. ) = Ditylum.
Triceratium undulatum E. ^ Ditylum.
PORPEIA Bail.
(1861).
Valve oblong, tumid in the middle, more or less constricted near the rounded ends, and divided by two transverse septa which extend inward, curving and becoming parallel to the surface.
Analysis of Species.
Septa curved.
1. quadriceps.
Septa parallel to edges of valve, 2. quudrata.
1.
Porpeia quadriceps Bail, (in lit.).
Porpeia quadriceps Bail., Prit., 850, PI.
6, fig.
6.
Var.
intermedia Grun., V. H.
Syn., Pi.
95 bis, fig.
14 ; Schmidt, PI.
142, figs.
46-5-2.
Biddulphia clatulata Ehr., Bed.
Akad.
(1861), 94?
Valve rounded at both ends, which are constricted into lobes and inflated at the middle.
Ends of valve more or less elevated.
From the junction of each process with the valve a septum extends downward curving more or less toward the centre.
Surface of valve usually flattened and covered with granules, which are more crowded on the processes, about 6 in .01 mm.
Zonal view quadrangular, the connective zone having puncta in parallel rows.
L. of V. averages .029 mm.
Carapeachy Bay; Gulf of Mexico.
2.1Porpeia quadrata firtv.
Poriuia quadrata Grev., T. M. S. (1865).
53, PI.
6, fig.
20 ; Schmidt, PI.
142, fig.
3S and figs.
53-5G (fig.
as quadriceps).
Valve as in quadriceps, except that the processes are but slightly elevated and the septa extend inward in a direction more or less parallel to the edge of the valve as seen in zonal view.
L. of v. .082 mm.
Connected with the preceding by intermediate forms.
The variations in the curves of the septa arc determined by the length of the valve.
Fossil at Santa Monica, Cal.
TERPSIN0EEhr.(1843).
Valve elliptical or triangular, more or less constricted by septa which are prominent and in zonal view appear either straight or curved at the ends.
Surface reticulated or punctate, sometimes indistinctly so.
Closely allied to Anaidn.^, from which it is chiefly distinguished by the character of the septa.
Analysis of Species.
Valves elliptical, reticulate or coarsely punctate: Septa curved : Surface not reticulate, 1.
Musica.
Surface reticulate, 2. intermedia.
Sftpta not curved, •^.
Brebissonii.
Valves elliptical or triangular, indistinctly punctate: Puncta radiating from hyaline centre, ... 4.
Americuna.
Puncta scattered except at angles and centre, 5.
NovaeCossarece.
1.
Terpsinoe Musica 1-hr.
Terpsinoe Musica Ehr., Auier., PI.
3.
4. fig.
1:3.
7, fig.
30; Mik., PI.
34, 6, ^.
8 ; Schmidt, PI.
199, figs.
9-13, PI.
200, figs.
7, 8.
Terpsinoe magna Bail., L. W.
Bail., B. J. N. H., 340, figs.
46, 50-54.
'J'erpsinoe tetragrarnma Bail., /.
c. Terjysinoe viiriima Bail., /.
c. Valve elliptical, witli undulating sides and lobed at the ends, divided by septa into three or more parts.
Surface with coarse puncta, about 8 in .01 mm., uot radiating, much finer at the ends.
On the connective zone the puncta are about 12 in .01 mm.
An irregular nodular centre is usually visible.
Frustule in zonal view quadrangular, the septa with their inner margins curved and thickened on the edges, presenting the appearance of musical notes.
Variable in size and in the divisions of the valves.
L. of v. averages .165 mm.
Marine and fresh water.
Delaware river mud (Liewis); St. Mary's river, Ga. (Lewis).
More common southward.
2.
Terpsinoe intermedia Grun.
Terpsiiioe interme(1ia Grun., Diat.
Franz .Tos.
Land.
59 ; Schmidt, PI.
199, figs.
1-8 ; PI.
200, figs.
1-6 ; PI.
198, fig.
65.
Valve elliptical with undulating sides, and divided by septa into several divisions.
Surface punctate and reticulated, sometimes indistinctly so, the reticulations irregular and unequal, about 2 or 3 in .01 mm.
Septa usually not thickened as in Musica, but bent near the edge.
The nodular centre is, in most specimens, quite pronounced.
L. of V. .17-4 mm.
Mobile (Schmidt).
Fossil at Nottingham (Brun), Atlantic City (K. and S. ), Asbury Pai'k and Longport, N. J. Terpsinoe intermedia latecavata (Erun) differs from the type in outline, which is rhombic-elliptical Avith produced ends.
Brun remarks that this form belongs to Terpsinoe as much as to Anaulus and is near T. intermedia Grun.
See on Anaulus (Terpsinoe) latecavatus Brun, Diat.
Jap., 16, PI.
1, fig.
13.
Fossil at Nottingham (Brun).
3.
Terpsinoe BreWssonii (Kutz.)
V. H. Terpsinoe {Pleurodesmium) Brehissonii (Kiitz.)
V. H., Diat., 453.
Pleurodesmiuvi Brebisso7iii Kutz., Bot.
Zeit.
(1846), 248 ; Schmidt, PL 200, figs.
15-19.
Valve elliptical with undulating sides and slightly lobed at the ends.
Surface divided by septa into five compartments, with puncta averaging 6 in .01 mm.
L. of v. .066 mm.
Frustule in zonal view quadrangular, with septa capitate but not appearing curved.
Connective zone with fine puncta, about 15 in .01 mm.
The frustules are said by De Brebisson to be connected by " threads," and by Van Heurck by " short processes in the form of feet," which are best seen in specimens mounted in situ and appear to belong to the membrane enveloping the frustules.
Cedar Keys, Fla. , and southward 4.
Terpsinoe Americana (Bail.)
Ralfs.
Teti-arjramma Americana Bail., N.
Sp., 7, fig.
1.
Terpsinoe Americana (Bail.)
Ralfs, Prit., 859 : Schmidt, PI.
200< figs.
9-13.
Valve with undulating outline, lobed at each end, and lobed or inflated at each side; divided by septa into three or more parts.
Surface with coarse but rather indistinct puncta, about 6 in .01 mm., which radiate interruptedly from a hyaline centre.
Frustule in zonal view quadrangular with septa extending about halfway into the valve.
L. of v. .059 mm.
Marine and fresh water.
Hudson river; Rockaway, L. I. ; Charleston; St. Augustine; Tampa Bay (Bail.).
Fossil at At!
ami c City and Harvey Cedars, N. J.
5.
Terpsinoe Novae-Caesareae Boyer.
Ilydrosera {Tcrpftinoe f) Novm-denareae Boyer, Torr.
Bull.
(1895), 263 ; Lewis Woolman, Aim.
Rep. Geol.
Sur.
N. J.
(1894), PI.
G, fig.
2 ; Le Diatomiste, 2, 207.
Valve triangular, sides concave.
Angles broad at the base, equally threelobed.
Surface flat, divided by straight septa separating the angles from the central part, which is for the most part hyaline, except at the centre, where a few puncta are seen.
Angles witli faint, scattered puncta, about 7 in .01 mra.
Connective zone with faint puncta.
W. of v. averages .062 mm.
Fossil in artesian well, Wildwood, N. .J.
; Cold Spring.
L. I.
(Reis)?
HYDROSERA \\ allich (1858).
Valves quadrangular in zonal view and elliptical or triangular in valve view.
The angles arc separated from the central part by septa which extend inward but a short distance.
There is usually present on one side of each valve an indistinct mark.
Surface of valves granular or cellular.
Hydrosera triquetra Wall.
Hydrosera triquetra Wall.. M. M. J.
(1S58), 251.
PI.
13, figs.
1-12 ; Schmidt, PI.
78, figs.
36-38; Deby, Jour, de Micrographie (1891), PI.
1, fig.
1.
Not Triceratium Javanicum Cleve.
Cleve (i\r.
and L. K. D., 24) considers this form possibly a variety of Hydrosera triquetra Wall.
Both Deby and De Toni consider the two equivalent.
A slide in my collection of T. Javanicum Cleve, mounted by Brun, shows the valve with unequal granular markings, more closely resembling those of H. Whampoense than the markings of H. triquetra.
Valve triangular or elliptical, sides slightly convex, the angles constricted by strong septa which separate them from the central part.
Surface with angular reticulations, about 6 in .01 mm.
at centre and increasing outward to about o in .01 mm., the extremities of the angles appearing hyaline.
Inner surface or secondary layer of valve punctate, somewhat as in Biddidpliia Favus, but the pun eta are coarser.
Xear one of the sides is frequently seen below the surface of the valve a line with two or three granules, which Mr. Deby well remarks are " often illusory."
The line appears to be a projection of a siliceous plate from the cell wall and is more easily seen if the valve is examined from the under side.
Pritchard's figures (Inf., PI.
6, figs.
8, 13) exaggerate the " digmata."
Zonal view quadrangular, the septa entering the valve obliquely.
Connective zone appearing hyaline.
I have not been able to find in the fossil forms the minute spines said to occur at the extremities of the angles.
L. of s. .099 mm.
to .132 mm.
Fossil at Atlantic City, N. J., in the triangular form only.
Carpentaria Bay (Schmidt).
ANAULUS E. (1844), Em.
V. H. (1881).
Valves more or less elliptical or lunate, divided into three or more parts by septa which usually constrict the margins.
Surface without elevation, with puncta usually radiate from an occasionally nodular centre or arranged in transverse lines.
Analysis of Species.
Valves elliptical: Without central nodule, 1.
Mediterraneus.
With central nodule : Not beaked at extremities, 2. hirostratus.
Beaked at the extremities, 3. acutus.
Valves lunate {Eunotogramma) : Puncta somewhat scattered 4.
IorvIs.
Puncta in transverse rows, 5. debilis.
1.
Anaulus Mediterraneus Grun.
Anaulns Mediterraneus Grun., V. H.
Syn., PI.
102, fig.
8-11.
Valve elliptical, rounded at the ends, divided by two septa into three parts.
Surface convex with scattered puncta, 5 or 6 in .01 mm.
No central nodule visible.
L. of v. .066 mm.
Fossil at Atlantic City, Asbury Park and Longport, N. J.
Occasional specimens from Weymouth, N. J. , show but one septum.
Anaulus Mediterraneus intermedins Grun.
Anaulus Mediterraneus var.
intermedia Grun., V. H.
Syn., PI.
10*2) fig.
9.
Valve constricted at the centre and at the ends ; otherwise as in A. Mediterraneus.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of California and the Eastern States.
There are several intermediate variations found in the Nottingham, Longport and other deposits, which lead to the conclusion that the above forms might be united under one specific name.
2.
Anaulus birostratus (irun.
Anaulus birostratus Grun., Y. II.
Syn., PI.
22 bis, fig.
15 ; PI.
103, figs.
1-3.
Biddulphia birostrata GTVLn., ^Yien YerhamU.
(1863), 153, PI.
13, fig.
23.
Valve elliptical-lanceolate, usually constricted near the ends; angles obtuse.
Surface divided by septa into three parts, the central one being square in outline, with scattered puncta, about 4 in .01 mm.
J more evident near the centre, at which a nodule is usually quite apparent.
L. of v. .105 mm.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of California and the Eastern States.
Found also living on the shores of Peru, Virgin Islands, West Indies, etc., and may, therefore, be looked for northward.
3.
Anaulus acutus l?run.
Anaulus acutus Brun., Le Diatomiste, 2, 231, PI.
20, figs.
15-18.
Valve more or less constricted at the midtllo with the ends produced.
Near A. birostratits, from which it differs, according to Brun, in having its valves, seen in zonal view, " joiued by their extremities in the form of beaks."
Puncta scattered, 5 or 6 in .01 mm.
L. of v. .105 nun.
Fossil at Santa Crux (Brun); AVildwood, N. J.
(Bruu); Redoudo Beach, Cal.
4.
Anaulus laevis (Gnin.)
V. H. Eunotofjrarama loeve Gnin., V. H.
Svn., PI.
126, figs.
6, 7, 9, 15 ; Schiitt, fig.
171, A, B.
Valve lunate, with obtuse ends; and with or without slight constrictions at the prominent septa, which usually number from four to six.
Surface marked with rather indistinct puncta, somewhat scattered, about 8 in .01 mm.
Zonal view sharply quadrangular, the connective zone having transverse but somewhat distant rows of fine puncta.
L. of v. .046 mm.
Coast of North Carolina and Florida; stomachs of fish, coast of South Carolina.
Not common.
Fossil at Buckshuten, N. J. ; Atlantic City artesian well, N. J.
5.
Anaulus debilis (Gmn.)
V. H. Anaulus debilis (Grun.
), V. H.
S.yu., 202.
Eunotogramma debile Grun., V. H.
Syn., PI.
126, figs.
17, 18, 19.
Valve lunate with margins entire.
Transverse septa more numerous than in A. kevis.
Surface with puncta in transverse rows, about 15 in .01 mm.
L. of v. .049 mm.
Very near A. kevis, with intermediate forms.
West river, Conn. ; Campeachy Bay (V. H. ).
Species Excluded.
Anaulus Campylodkcus E. , Prit., 859; Euodia Frauenfeldii Grun., Wien Verhandl.
(1863), 158, PI.
14, fig.
19; Eunotogramma Frauenfeklii Grun., V. H.
Syn., PI.
126, fig.
14; De Toni, 892.
Habirshaw refers this to Grunow's form, apparently because Grunow says {I. c. ) that the latter appears to bear Eome resemblance to the quite insufficiently described Anaulus Campy lodiscus.
The reference is probably incorrect.
Ehrenberg's locality is given as " Bermuda" (Nottingham), and his form may possibly be Biddulphia seraicircularis (Br.).
Eunotogramma amphioxijs E., Berl.
ATcad.
(1855), 302; De Toni, 892.
This form is given as equivalent to Biddulphia f lunaki E., Bed.
Akad.
(1844), 77; MiL, PI.
18, fig.
53; Kiitz., S. A., 138; Prit, 849.
It is described in Prit.
as " three-lobed, smooth, slightly curv'ed, lunate, with subacute horns."
The form is unknown to me.
HUTTONIA Gr.
and St. (1887).
The generic diagnoses not yet having been made and the genus ncluding species unlike the only American form thus far discovered, it is considered unnecessary to do more than give specific characteristics.
De Toni remarks that the "■ genus is scarcely to be preserved" and that " j^erhaps it should be united with Triceratium or with Odontella."
The processes appear like those of Cerataidm, while the outline and septa partake of the characteristics of Anaulus Mediterraneus.
Huttonia Keichardtii Griin.
Uuttonia Reichardtii Gtww., Just's Jahresb.
(181^7), 279; Schmidt, PI.
116, fig.
4.
Cerataulus (?)
Reicliardtii Grun., Wien Verhaad.
(1863), 158, PI.
13, fig.
22.
Valve elliptical, divided by two somewhat irregular, transverse, imperfect septa.
Surface not elevated, punctate, the puncta about 9 in .01 mm., in irregular, somewhat oblique rows.
I^ear each end, on opposite sides, an indefinite, truncate process extends obliquely outward.
Zonal view quadrangular.
L. of v. .049 mm.
In a specimen from Wildwood, X. J., one of the processes is obsolete.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of Virginia {'Grun.
;; Aiiantic City (K. and S. ) ; Weymouth, X. J.; Wildwood.
X. J.
Rare.
HEMIAULUS Klir.
OSJJ) Km.
U. L.Smith.
Valves elliptical or triangular, with the ends or angles usually extended into robust processes which are frequently mucronate.
Surface usually more or less depressed at the centre, but occa-sioually divided by costtc into rounded elevations, with puncta usually coarse aud prominent.
Valves of same frustule not always equal.
Analysis of Speciei^.
Valves triangular, 1.
Solenoceros.
Valves elliptical: Processes short, 2. bipon^.
Processes long: Valves costate : Surface divided into elevations, ... 3. polymorphi.<.
Surface not so divided, 4 pobjcktinorum.
Valves not costate : With minute spiue near end of process, .
.
5.
Kitionii.
With spiue on end of truncate process, .
.
6.
Moniccc.
Without spines, 7.
Calijornicus.
1.
Hemiaulus Solenoceros (Ehr.)
Triceralium Solenoceros Ehr., Berl.
Akad.
(1844), 273 ; Schmidt, PI.
77, fig.
21 ; PI.
9G, %• 11 ; PI.
97, tigs.
6.
7.
Triceratium Ugulatum Grev., T. M. S. (1864), 91, PI.
13, fig.
9.
Triceratium Kittonianum Grev.. T. M. S. (1865), 8.
Valve triangular, with deeply concave sides and angles produced into slender arms, from the extremities of which extend at right angle?
truncated, "hammer-like" processes which are usuallyless than .01 mm.
in height.
Surface elevated at the nodular centre, from which puncta about 5 in .01 mm., although somewhat larger toward the extremities, radiate along the produced angles in three or four nearly jiarallel rows.
W. of v. .132 mm.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States.
Greville, in his description of Triceratium Kittonianum, lays stress on the presence of the pseudo-nodule which, he says, " like a hammer," projects above and below the connective zone, and also upon the hexagonal reticulations as distinguishing his species from Triceratium Solenoceros Ehr.
An examination of numerous specimens from the INottiugham deposit shows that ihe I'eticulation is more or less hexagonal in all and that there is considerable variation in the amount of elevation of the processes, as is mentioned by Heiberg in his descripticm of Trinacria Recjina, due occasionally to their being broken off, but quite often to their imperfect development, it being somewhat difficult to find valves in which all three processes are of exactly the same height.
While I have not seen the curved spines characteristic of Trinacria at the apices of the processes, yet the roughened edges occasionally appear to indicate the possibility of their having been originally present, and the close resemblance of the American forms to those described by Heiberg under Trinacria leave no doubt, I think, of their generic character.
Trinacria is united to Hemiaulus in accoraance with the views of Van Heurck, Brun and others, the difference being chiefly that of outline.
Trinacria excavata Heib.
, which is given by some authors as equivalent to this form, differs from it in having much larger marginal reticulations.
The Habirshaiv Catalogue gives Trinacria Rcgina Heib.
as a synonym, but I think this is also distinct.
The three forms are, however, closely allied.
2.
Hemiaulus bipons (Ehr.
?)
Grun.
Zyfjoceros bipons Ehr., Bed.
Akad.
(1844), 273.
Hemiaulus bipons (Ehr.
?)
Grun., Fr.
Jos.
L., 13; V. H.
Syn., PI.
103, figs.
6-9.
Valve elliptical-lanceolate, acute at the ends, divided into three nearly equal parts by two robust transverse costte.
In zonal view the surface is depressed at the centre, the sharply defined edges of valve extending into a double keel along the short processes, each of which bears a short, stout, incurved spine.
Puncta rounded, 3 in .01 mm.
L. of v. .075 mm.
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States, especially at Nottingham and Richmond.
3.
Hemiaulus polymorphus Virginicus Grun.''
Hemiaulus polijmorphus Virginicus Grun., Fr.
Jos.
L., 14.
PI.
i>, fig.
46 ; Schmidt, PI.
143, fig.
31.
Valve elliptical-lanceolate, with the margin apparently but not really constricted by the transverse costie which, variable iu number, divide the surface into rounded elevations, of which the central is usually the largest and more elevated.
Processes robust, seldom more thau half the length of valve, each with a strong inwardly curved spine .01 mm.
in length.
Puncta 6 or 7 in .01 mm., not in regular rows.
L. of v. averages .048 mm.
Fossil at Richmond, Va. 4.
Hemiaulus polyoistinorum Ehr.
Heinianlas pnUjcistiaoruni Ehr., Mik., PI.
30, fig.
43, a-d ; Schmidt, PI.
143, tigs."
23-29.
Valve elliptical-lanceolate, acute at the ends, divided by two or more costai which are usually but slightly depressed.
Surface either depressed toward the centre or flat.
Processes usually long aud robust, terminated by a short, stout, incurved spine.
Puncta rounded, pearly aud prominent, especially on the processes, where they are about 3 in .01 mm.
L. of v. averages .083 mm.
Nottingham (" Stratford Cliffs," Ehr.).
5.
Hemiaulus Kittonii Grun.
Hemiaulus Kittonii Grun., V. H.
Syn., PI.
10(5, figs.
6-9 ; Schmidt, PI.
142, tigs.
2-8.
11.
Hemiaulus sp.
Kitton., J. Q. C. (1870), PI.
14, fig.
2.
Valve elliptical, without costte.
Surface slightly raised at centre, ••Schmidt states [Atlas, PI.
143) that, according to Witt's opinion.
Hemiaulus polymorphus Grun.
is identical with Hemiaulus Proteus Heib., and that the latter name has the right of priority.
The variety Virffinicug Grun.
and other forms known as //.
poli/morphus differ from JJ.
Proteus in not havimi the marcins constricted at the middle.
with puucta iu irregular rows on the valve, but parallel on processes, about 10 in .01 mm.
Processes slender, .049 mm.
in length, incurved, terminated by a fine straight mucronate spine, at the base of which, on the outer edge of each process, a minute spiue projects.
L. of v. .019 mm.
Vera Cruz.
Rare.
6.
Hemiaulus Monicae Gmn.
Hemiaulus Monicce Grun., Fr.
Jos.
L., 10.
Valve elliptical.
Processes robust, short and truncate, tipped with a minute spine.
Surface slightly elevated at the centre, with puncta somewhat irregular, 4 in .01 ram., but becoming smaller toward the ends of the processes, where they are about 7 iu .01 mm.
L. of v. .022 ram.
Xear H. symmeirkm Grev.
(T. M. S., 1865, 53, PI.
6, fig.
22), from which it differs in having the puncta less regularly disposed.
Fossil at Santa Monica, Cal.
; Richmond (De Toui).
7.
Hemiaulus Californicus Ehr.
?
Hemiaulus Californicus Ehr., Mik., PI.
33, 13, fig.
15.
Valve elliptical with robust processes.
Costjc wanting, but in zonal view a slight depression is seen where the processes join the surface.
Puncta more or less hexagonal, about 4 iu .01 ram., in longitudinal rows.
L. of v. .019 mm.
Fossil in California (Ehr. )
; Richmond, Va.
It is with some hesitation that the above description of specimens in my collection is attributed to H. Californicus, as Ehrenberg's figure is not sufficiently clear, but it is evident, I think, that the figure is intended to represent a small form having slight depressions at the junction of processes with the surface, and Avith puncta iu longitudinal rows.
The only other species, probably, to which the American forms cau be referred is affinis Grun., which, however, raay be identical Avith Californicus.
PLOIARIA Pant.
(1889).
Valves elliptical-lanceolate, elevated at the centre, which is separated from the ends by depressions which appear like costje.
Puncta coarse.
In general the valves resemble those of Hemiaulus, but are without processes.
Includes but one species.
48 Ploiaria petasiformis Pant.
Hemiaulus ?
petasiformis Pant., Foss.
Bacill.
Ung., I, 48, PI.
29. fig.
295.
Ploiaria 11 etasif or mis Pant., I. c. 2, PI.
28, figs.
403, 405.
Valve elliptical-lanceolate or elliptical-rhomboidal, acute at the ends, divided transversely by two lines, apparently costse, into three parts, the two outer being flattened or slightly concave, while the central part is convex.
Surface with puncta about 6 in .01 mm., more or less radiating from an apparent nodule which is usually excentric.
In zonal view the valves appear petasiform and are slightly unequal.
L. of v. .059 ram.
to .082 mm.
Fossil at Nottingham and Atlantic City.
Not common.
Sometimes mistaken for Hemiaulus bipons Ehr.
GKAYA Grove and Bruu.
(1892).
Valve elliptical, appearing hyaline under low magnification.
Surface undulating, with fine puncta chiefly along the longitudinal axis and radiating from a nodular centre.
Represented by one species which is closely related to Eucampia.
Graya Argonauta Grove and Bnin.
Gray id Argonauta Grove and Brun., Schmidt, PI.
192, fig.
11.
Graya Argonauta Brun.
and Grove, V. H.
Diat., 458, fig.
187.
Valve elliptical or elliptical-lanceolate, with rounded ends.
Surface convex, elevated at the centre and ends, but usually appearing beveled at the middle of the sides; subtly punctate near the margin, the puncta becoming more prominent along the longitudinal axis, where they are about 7 in .01 mm., radiating imequally from a nodular centre.
Zonal view quadrangular.
The connective zone appears to increase by the addition of successive plates which overlap each other.
L. of v. .099 mm.
to .181 mm.
Av.
1. of frustule .099 mm.
Fossil in the elliptical form at Nottingham and in the ellipticallanceolate form at Redondo Boach.
Cal.
EUCAMPIA Khr.
(ISSii.)
Valves elliptical with undulating surface.
In zonal view the frustules appear more or less cuneiform and are joined together in spiral chains.
They are imperfectly siliceous, notably so in the connective zones which are annulate.
Eucampia Zodiacus Ehr.
Eiicampia Zodiacus Ehr., Kreideth, Berl.
Akad.
(1839), 71, PI.
4, fig.
8 ; Wm.
Sm., Brit.
Diat., 3, 25, PI.
35, fig.
299 ; PI.
60, fig.
299 ; V. H.
Syn., PL 95, fi^s.
17, 18 ; 95 bis, figs.
1, 2.
Eucampia?
Virginiea Gran., V. H.
Syn., PI.
95, his, fig.
6.
Eucampia Britannica Wm.
Sm., Brit.
Diat., 2, 25, PI.
61, fig.
378.
Valve elliptical with rounded ends.
Surface with slight elevations at the nodular centre and at the ends, the puncf.a, about 7 in .01 mm., radiating from the centre to the sides where they are about 10 in .01 mm.
Ends of valves hyaline.
Zonal view cuneiform, the connective zone annulate and very indistinctly punctate.
L. of V. .115 mm.
Xewport, R. I.
(Lewis).
Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States.
Rare.
I have not seen the connective zone of the fossil form known as Eucampia Virginiea, but as the valves correspond exactly Avith those of E. Zodiacus, the two are doubtless identical.
The distinction made by William Smith between the two forms, E. Zodiacus and E. Britannica, is not specific, as spiral filaments may be seen in which some frustules have their sides " excavated," while others, in the same filament, have merely undulating surfaces without any " foramina between the joints."
LiTHODESMiuM, a gcnus included by Van Heurck.
De Toni and others among the Biddulphoid forms, is here omitted as it appears to have scarcely any of their characteristics.
Its frustules are united by a reticulated siliceous membrane, and in other respects it appears to be more closely allied to Ditylum.
Index.
Synonyms are in Italics.
PAGE PAGE aculeatum 'Ehr.
(Triceratimn) .
728 alternans Bail.
{Triceratium) .
719 aculeatumGvev.
{Triceratium) 728 alteriians Ehr.
{Amphipentas) .
717 acuta (Ehr. )
(Biddulphia) ... .
706 AmhlyocerosBx:.
{Triceratium) .
721 acutum Ehr.
{Triceratium) 706 AmblifocerosY.\\x.
{ Triceratium) 721 acutus Brun.
( Anaulus) 736 Americana (Ralls) (Biddulphia) 721 aflinis Grun.
(Hemianlus) 741 Americana (Bail. )
Ralfs (Terpalternans H. L. Smith {Amphisinoe) 734 tetras) 716 AmericaHaBsii\.
{Tetragramma) 734 alternans (Bail.)
V. H. (BiddulAmericanum Ealfs '{Triceraphia) 719 Hum) 721 744 [1900.
PAGE amoinum Grev.
( Tdceratiiim) .
723 amphiceros cruciata Cleve (Rhaphoneis) 729 amphiceros tetragona Grun.
(Rhaphr)neis) 729 ainphioxys Ehr.
(Eunotogramma) 737 Anaulus Ehr 735 angulata A. S. (Biddulphia) .
.
.
705 anguldta (A. S. ) De Toni {Odontella) 705 antediluviana Ehr.
{Amphitetras) 716 antediluviana (Ehr.)
V. H. {Biddulphia) 716 antediluvianum Grun.
{2'riceraiiuvi) 716 Antillarum (Cleve) (Biddulphia) 722 Antilhiruin C\e\e{TriceraHuin) 722 Antilliirunt (Cleve) De Toni (Amj)hipentas) 722 arctica (Br.)
(Biddulphia) .... 714 arcticum^r.
{Triccrdtium) ... 714 arcticum Cleve {Tricjoniina) .
.
.
714 Argonaiita Grove and Brun.
(Graya) 742 Argus Boyer (Biddulphia) 701 ar isat a Shadh.
{Amphidtras) .
717 armatum Koper {Triceratium).
703 aurita (Lyng.)
Breb.
(Biddulphia) 699 aurita (Lyng.)
Ag.
( Odontella) 699 mirita Ehr.
{iJenticella) 699 auritum hyng.
{Diatoma) 699 australis Mout.
{Biddulphia).
G94 i?««7<'yt Wm.
Sm.
{Biddnlphia) 698 Bala;na(Elir.)Br.
(Biddulphia) 713 BaUana Ehr.
{Z//f/oreros) 713 hicorne Cleve ( Trieeratium) .
.
.
707 bicornis (Cleve) De Toni {Amphitetr((s) 707 Biddulphia Gray 690 BiddtilphiaEhT.
{Denticella).
.
694 Biddulphia Heib.
{Triceratinm) 704 Biddulphiaua (Smith) (Biddulphia) 694 BiddulphianaSm\th(Conferva ) 694 Biddnlphianum Ag.
(Diatoma) 694 bipons (Elir.?)
Grun.
(Hemiaulus) 740 bipons Ehr.
(Zi/qoceros) 740 bipons Ehr.
(Bidditlphia) 729 biquadrata (Jan.) (Biddulphia) 717 biquadratuni Jan. (IViceratium) 717 PAGE birostrata Grun.
{Biddulphia).
736 birostratus Grun.
(Anaulus) .
.
.
736 Boryana Pant.
(Salacia) 730 Brebissonii (Kiitz) V. H. (Terpsinoe) 733 Brebissonii Kiitz {Pleurodesmium) 733 bremnertium Grev.
(Triceratium) 718 Brighticellii West ( Triceratium) 730 Brighttcellii Kalfs (Euodia).
.
.
726 Britannica Wm.
Sm.
{Eucainpia) 743 Brittouiana K. and S. (Biddulphia) 698 Browneanum Grev.
( Triceratium) 724 bullosum Witt {Triceratium) .
.
707 Californica(A. S.) (Biddulphia) 711 Californicum Grun.
(lYiceratixim) 700 C((Ufornirus A.S. (Ceratauhis) 711 Calit'oruicusGrev.
(Stictodiscus) 741 Californicus Ehr.
(Hemiaulns) .
741 Campeachiana (Grun.)
(Biddulphia) 707 Campeachiana (Grun.)
DeToni (Amphiti tras) 707 Campearhianum Grun.
(Triceratium) 707 Campylodiscus Ehr.
(Anaulus) 737 capcnsis Grun.
(Isthmia) 689 cinnamomeum Grev.
(Triceratium) 730 cinnamomcus (Grev.)
Grun.
( Ccstodiscus) 730 Circinus (Bail.)
Y. H. (Biddulphia) 713 Circinus Bail.
(Zi/goceros).
.
.
.
713 clavulaia Ehr.
(Biddulphia) .
.
731 comptu)n Ehr.
{IVicratium) .
.
706 condecora (Ehr.)
(Biddulphia) 720 conde^orum Ehr.
(Trici rtiti'mi) 720 C3nsimilis(Grun.)
(Biddulphia) 709 consimih Grun.
(Triciratium) 709 couvexiuscuIa(Grun.)
(Biddulphia) 709 concexiusculum Grun.
(Triceratium) 709 Cookiana K. and S. (Biddulphia) .'
702 Coofi-iiina (K. and S.) De Toni (Odontella) 702 costulata (Grun.)
(Biddulphia) 720 crenatum Kitton (Trireriitium) 7.
">0 crenulatii Walker (Biddulpliia) 709 1900.]
745 PAGE crucinta 3 a.n.
and Eab.
{AmpMtetras) 729 cruciatum Leud.Fort.
{Triceratium ) 729 crucifera Kitton {Amphitetras) 729 crux Br.
{Ampliitetras) 716 cuspidata L. W. Bail.
(Amphitetras) 700 ciispidatum Jan. (Tnceratium) 706 debile Grxin.
{Eiijiotoqramma) 737 debilis (Gran.)
V. H. (Anaulus) 737 decipiens Grun.
(Biddulphia) .
.
716 dubiumUv.
{Ti'icerntiinn) 707 dubia (Br.)
Cleve (Biddulphia) 707 Edwardsii Febiger (Biddulphia) 701 Edwardsii (Feb.) De Toni ( Odontella) 701 Elirenbergii Grun.
(Triceratium) 730 elegans (Grev.)
(Bidriulphia) .
.
717 elegaiis Grev.
(Ampliiletras).
.
.
717 elegans (Grev.)
Grun.
{Triceratiiim) 717 elegantula Grev.
{Biddulphia).
695 ellipticus (Ehr.)Grun.
(Tetracyclus) 730 elongata Menengh.
{Biddulphia) 694 elo ng a turn Grnn.
{Triceratitcm) 709 enervis Ehr.
{Isth?nia) 689 etiervis (Ehr.)
Cleve {Tsthmiella) 689 Eueampia Ehr 743 fasciata Wigand {Biddulphia) 694 Favus (Ehr.)
V. H. (Biddulphia) 706 Favus Ehr.
{Triceratium) 706 fimhriatuni Wal 1.
( Triceratium) 706 Fisc7ieri A. a.
{Triceratium).. 723 formosum Br.
{Triceratium).
.
713 Frauenfeldii Grun.
{Eunotogramma) 737 Frauenfeldii Grnn.
[Euodia).. 737 gibbosum B. and H. {Triceratium) 709 gig us Ehr.
{Biddulphia') 728 gracilis Ehr.
{Benticella) 699 grande Br.
{Triceratium) 706 grandis (Br.)
Biddulphia 706 granulata Roper (Biddulphia).. 702 Graya Grove and Brun 742 Grundleri A. S. {Triceratium) 730 PAGE Harrisonianum Norm, and Grev.
( Triceratium) 730 hebetata (Grun.)
(Biddulphia).
732 Heilpriniana (K. and S.) (Biddulphia) • .
• 715 Ileilprinianum K. and S. {2'rvceratium) 715 Hemiaulus Ehr 738 hemitropus Bail.
{Zygoceros) .
.
705 liemitropa L. W. Bail.
{Biddulphia) 705 heteroporum Grun.
{Triceratitnn) 723 heteropora (Grun.)
(Biddulphia) 723 Jieterostictum A. S. {Triceratium) 731 Hungaricus Pant.
{Cerataulus) 712 Hiittonia Gr.
& St 737 Hydrosera Wall '•34 impar A. S. ( Triceratium) 723 indcntatum K. and S. {Triceratium) 727 inelegans (Grev.)
(Biddulphia) 725 inelegans Grev.
{Triceratium) .
725 intermedia Grun.
(Terpsinoe).
.
783 interpunctata (Grun.)
(Biddulphia) 723 iiiterpunctatum Grun.
(Triceratium) 723 interrupta Boyer (Biddulphia) .
702 interstiale Ag.
{Diatomco) 694 interruptum Bail.?
{Triceratium) 728 irregulare hebetatum Grun.
(Triceratium) 722 Isthmia Ag 688 Johnsoni Ealfs {Triceratium).
.
718 Johnsonianus var.
A. S. {Cerataulus) 711 Jucatense Grun.
{Triceratium) 725 Kainii (Schultze) (Biddulphia) 718 Kainii Schultze ( Triceratium) .
718 Keeleyi Boyer (Biddulphia) .
.
.
708 Kittonianum Grev.
{Triceratiim) 739 Kittonii A. S. {Lampriscus) .
.
.
709 Kittonii Grun.
(Hemiaulus) .
.
.
740 ImveGvnn.
{Eunotogramma) .
.
737 Ifevis Ehr.
(Biddulphia) 713 IcEvis (Ehr.)
Ralls {Cerataulus) 712 Icevis Ehr.
{Denticella) 712 746 [1900. lEevis (Grun.)
V. H. (Aiiaulus) 737 latecavatus Anaulus (Terpsinoe) 733 liberum Ag.
{Diatoma) 694 ligulatum Grev.
{Triceratium).
739 Lindigiana Grun.
and Eul.
ihthmia) 689 Lithodesmium 743 longicruris Grev.
(Biddulpliia) .
6!
)8 longispina Grun.
(Biddulpliia).
699 lonfjispina (Grun.)
De Toni ( Odontotropis) 699 luruita Ehr.
(Biddulpliia ?)....
730 magna Bail.
L. "W. (Terpsinoe) 732 margaritaceum B. and H. (Zygoceros) 699 viurgaritifera Shadb.
(Dentice'lla) ■ 695 Marylandicum Br.
{Triceratiura) 731 Mediterraneus Grun.
(Anaulus) 736 megastomumBi.
(Iriceratium) 706 raembranaceum Br.
(Triceratium) 704 minima B. and H. (Istlimia).. .
689 minima (B. and H.) De Toni (Isthmiella) 689 minima Bail.
{Terpsinoe) 73-2 minuta Grev.
(Aniphitetras) ... 716 Mobiliensis (Bail.)
Grun.
(Biddulpliia) 698 Mobiliensis (Bail.)
Grun.
(Denticella) 698 Mobiliensis (Bail.)
Kalfs (Zygoceros) .'....
698 Mobiliensis Bail.
{{Dcnticclla ?)
Zygoceros) 698 MonicteGrun.
(Pleniiauliis).
.
.
.
741 Montereyi Br.
{Triccratium).
.
715 multicornis Grun.
(Biddulpliia) 697 multifrons Brun.
{Triceratium) 718 viuricatum Br.
{Triceratium) .
706 Musica Elir.
(Terpsinoe) 732 nervosa Kiitz.
(Istbniia) 688 Novic-Cicsarea; Boyer (Terpsinoe) 1^734 obliquata (Sniitb) (Isibmia).
.
.
689 obliquata (Lyng) Ag.
{Ist/imia) ' 688, 689 obliquata Smith ( Conferva) .
.
.
689 obliqnatum Lyng {Diatoma)68S, 689 obliqiium Grun.
(Triceratium).
727 ohscuriiiii Grev.
(I'riccratiunt).
721 obtusa (Kiitz.)
Ralfs (Biddulphia) 700 obtusa Kiitz.
( Odontella) 700 obtusa (Kiitz.)
Grun.
(Biddulphia) 712 oblusum Ehr.
( Triceratium) 720, 726 obtusum Br.
(IViceratium) .... 724 occidentalis Bail.
(Zygoceros).. 698 orbiculata (Shadb.)
(Biddulphia) 709 orbiculatum Shadb.
(Triceratium) 709 orientale B. and H. (Triceratium) 706 ornaia Shadb.
(Amphitetras).
.
717 ovalis (A. S.) (Biddulphia) .... 712 ovalis A. S. (Cerataulus) 712 pallidum Grev.
(Triceratium).
718 parallela Hhr.
(Amphitetras).. 729 paralhlum (Ehr.)
Grev.
(Triceratium) 729 liarallelum (Grev.)
De Toni (Nothoceratium ?)
730 Parma Bail.
( Triceratium) .... 728 parvula (Jan. and Eab.)
(Biddulphia) 725 j)arcula Jan. and Rab.
(Amphitetras) 725 Peniacrinus Ehr.
(Amphipentas) 717 Pentacrinus (Ehr.)
(Biddulphia) 717 Pentacrinus (Ehr.)
Wall.
(Triceratimn) 717 Peruviana Grun.
(Biddulphia).
708 perpnsilia Bail.?
(Biddulphia).
728 petasi form is Pant.
(Ploiaria).
.
.
742 pihatu)7i Gran.
(Triceratium).
731 Pileolus Ehr.
(I'riceratiurn) .
.
.
727 Pileus Ehr.
(Triceratium) 727 Ploiaria Pant 741 polvcistinorum Ehr.
(Hemiaulus) 740 p>olymera Ehr.
(Denticella).
.
.
.
695 poly me ra Kiitz.
(Odontella) .. .
695 polymorpha '^lont.
(Isthmia).
.
712 polymorpha Kiitz.
(Odontilla) 712 polymorphns Virginicus Grun.
(Hemiaulus) 740 ponderosum Edwards (Triceratium 706 Porpeia Bail 731 pulchella Gray (Biddulphia).
.
694 punctata (Br.")
V. H. (Biddulphia) 722 punctatum Br.
(Triceratium).
.
724 1900.]
747 'p'lnctatum^aW.
{Triceratiurn) 722 piistulata Bruu.
(Biddulphia) .
.
697 quadrnngnlare Grev.
(Triceratium) 715 quadrata Grev.
(Porpeia) 732 quadriceps Bail.
(Porpeia) 731 quadricoruis (Grun.)
(Biddulphia) 713 quadricornis Grun.
(Zygoceros) 713 quadrinotatum A. S. {Triceratium) 717 quinquelocularis Kiitz.
{Biddulphia) 694 radiatas (Ehr.)
Jan. and Rab.
(Auliscus) 705 Tadiatus (Wm.
Sm. )
Roper (Biddulphia) 705 radiatus Wni.
Sm.
(Eupodiscus) 705 radiatus Jan. {Auliscus) 705 radiatus Bail.
{Zygoceros) .... 713 receptum A.
S {Triceratium) .
.
731 Reichardtii Grun.
(Huttonia) .
.
738 reticulata Roper (Biddulphia) .
708 reticulata (Roper) De Toni {Odontella?)
708 Reticulum (Ehr.)
(Biddulphia) 724 Reticulum 'khr.
{Triceratiuut) .
724 Rhombus (Ehr.)
Wm.
Sm.
(Biddulphia) 704 Rhombus Ehv.
{Denticella) .
.
.
.
704 Rhombus Ehr.
{Zygoceros) .... 704 Rhombus (Ehr.)
Ralfs (Tetracyclus) 730 Robertsiana (Grev.)
(Biddulphia) 707 Robertsianum, Grev.
{Triceratium) 707 robustum Grev.
{Triceratium) .
723 Roperiana Grev.
(Biddulphia).
700 Roperiana (Grev.)
De Toni {Odontella) 700 scitulum Br.
( Triceratium) .... 706 sculpta (Shadb.)
V. H. {Biddulphia) 724 sculptum ^hdAh.
{Triceratium) 724 secernendum A.
S {Triceratium) 723 semicirculare Br.
{Triceratium) 726 semicircularis (Br.)
(Biddulphia) 726 seticulosa Gruu.
(Biddulphia).. 703 seticulosa (Grun.)
De Toni {Denticella) 703 setigerum Bail.
{Triceratium) .
703 septemlocularis Kiitz.
{Biddulphia) 694 serratum Wall.
{Triceratium).
703 Shadboltianuvi Grev.
{Triceratium) 709 Shadboltii'L.
W. Bail.
{Triceratium) 731 Shulzei Beyer (Biddulphia) .
.
.
726 simplex Shad.
{Denticella) .
.
.
.
695 Smithii (Ralls) V. H. (Biddulphia) 705 Smiihii Ealfs ( Cerataulus) .... 705 Soleufceros (Ehr.)
(Hemiaulus) 739 spinosa (Bail.)
(Biddulphia) .
.
.
703 spinosum Bail.
{Triccraiiu7/i) .
703 Strabo A. S. ( Triceratium) .... 706 striolatum Wm.
Sm.
{Triceratium) 731 striolatum Y.\xv.
{Triceratium).
704 subcequa Kiitz.
{Biddulphia).
.
712 subsequa (Kiitz.)
Ralfs (Biddulphia) 700 subfvqua Kiitz.
( Odontella) .... 700 subcornutum Grun.
{Iriceratium) 727 suborbicularis Grun.
(Biddulphia) 705 suborbicularis (Grun.)
De Toni {Denticella) 705 subrotundata (A. S.) (Biddulphia) 720 subrotundatum A. S. {Triceratium) 720 Tabellarium(Br.)
(Biddulphia) 718 Tabillarium Br.
{Triceratium) 718 tenuis L. W. Bail.
{Biddulphia) 693 Terpsiuoe Ehr 732 tessellata (Grev.)
(Biddulphia) 723 tessellatumGiev.
{Triceratium) 723 Testudo (Brun.)
(Biddulphia).
726 Tcstudo Brun.
{Tabulina) 726 tetragramma Bail.
{Terpsinoe) 732 thermalis (Menengh.)
Ralfs {Cerataulus) 712 thermalis Menengh.
{Melosira^ 712 thermalis Menengh.
{Plealrosira) 712 Thumii (A. S.) (Biddulphia).
.
712 Thumii A. S. {Cerataulus) .... 712 tra n sversa Wigand ( Bidd u Iph ia ) 694 tridactylum Br.
{Triceratium) 703 tridentata Ehr.
{Biddulphia).
.
695 tridentata Ehr.
{Denticella)... 695 748 [1900.
PAGE tridens Ehr.
(Biddulphia) 695 tridens Ehr.
(Deniicella) 695 triloeularis Kiitz.
(Biddulphia) 694 trinacria L. W. Bail.
{Biddulphia) 698 trinacria Bail.
(JDenticella) 698 tripartitum Grun.
(I'riceratium) 728 triquetia Wall.
(Hydrosera).
.
.
734 trisulca (Bail.)
(Biddulphia).. 719 trisulcurii ]i3i\\.
{Tricerutiuin) .
719 tumida (Ehr.)
Koper (Biddulphia) 702 tumida Ehr.?
(Denticella) 702 tumidum costulatum Grnn.
( Triceratiura) 720 Tuomeyi (Bail.)
Roper (Biddulj)hia) 695 Tuoineyi Bail.
(Zygoceros).
.
.
.
695 turyida Ehr.
(iJenticella) 711 turyida Kiitz.
( Odontella) 711 tuvfjida (Ehr.)
Ralfs (Biddulphia) 711 tuigida (Ehr.)
Win.
Sm.
(Biddulphia) 711 turrjida (\Vm.
Sm.)?
De Toni (OdoiUella) 711 PAGE turgidus Ehr.
(Cerataulus).
.
.
.
711 u?icinatum A. S. (Triceraiium) 728 unifasciata Wigand {Biddulphia) 694 undulatum Ehr.
(Triceratiura) 731 validum Grun.
(Triceratium) .
719 varibiWQr.
(Triceratium) 719 Tenulosum Grex.
(IViceratium) 718 verrucosa Beyer (Biddulphia).. 710 vesiculosa (Ag.)
(Biddulphia) .
.
716 vesiculosa Ag.
(IstJtmia) 716 vesiculosum Ag.
(Diatoma) .
.
.
.
716 Virginica Gian.
(Eucanqna).. 743 Wilkesii B. and H. (Amphitetras) 714 M'ilkesii B. and H. (lYicerati'im) 714 Wool/naiiii K. and S. (Biddulphia) 730 Zodiacus Ehr.
(Eucarupia) 743 zoiuitulatum Grev.
(Triceratium) 725 December 4.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Eighteen persons present.
December 11.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
Fourteen persons present.
A paper entitled " A New Weasel from Western Pennsylvania," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for publication.
December .18.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Twenty-nine persons present.
A paper entitled " Crustacea from the Cretaceous Formation of New Jersey," by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication.
December 27.
Christmas Day faUing on Tuesday, under the revised code of By-Laws the meeting was held on the succeeding Thursday.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , in the Chair.
Twentysix persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: " Crustacea and Pycnogonida Collected duriug the Princeton Arctic Expedition of 1899," by Dr. A. E. Ortmann. "
Report on the Echinoderms Collected off the West Coast of Greenland by the Princeton Arctic Expedition of 1899," by Walter M. Rankin.
"A List of Fishes from St. Croix, West Indies," by Henry W. Fowler.
The following were ordered to be published:
