SONORELLA A NEW GENUS OF HELICES.
BY HEXRY A. PILSBRY.
In a former volume of these Proceed uifjs the writer in collaboration with Prof. Cockerell established a new genus for certain externally Polygyralike Helices from Arizona and New Mexico under the name Ashmunella.
It was there stated with some reserve p. 191 that  ' Ashmunella is.
2i ixxevahQv oi the Belogotm euadenia or AsiaticAmerican group of dartbearers which has lost the dart apparatus and developed apertural characters of the shell similar to those of Polygyra.'
So far as exterior and shell are concerned Ashmunella converges so completely to the Polygyra type that the most experienced malacologists in America were deceived although if my view be correct their phylogeuetic history has been widely different.
It was therefore with unusual interest that I found that alcoholic specimens of  Epiphragmopliora' hachitana Dall recently forwarded by the Rev.
E. H. Ashmuu confirm the position in classification proposed for Ashmunella or at least they supply a new genus allied to Ashmunella in the degeneration of the appendages of the sexual organs while some other viscera and the shell have the characters of the Belogonous genus Epiphragmophora.
 SONORELLA n. g. Gen. Char.
 Shell umbilicate depressed heliciform similar to Epiphragmophora but neither malleate nor spirally striate uniform or having a dark shoulderband usually pale bordered the lip more or less expanded.
Genitalia without accessory organs on the 
side the spermatheca jjclobose on a very long duet  vagina long penis small continued in a much longer epiphallus the lower portion of which is embraced by the penis retractor flagelProc.
A. N. 8.
Phila.
1899 p. 188.
See also 1900 p. 107.
 Coiif.
note oil a young specimen of E. hachitana received from Prof. 0ckerell this volume p. 100. last pragraph.
lum extremely small.
Jaw high arcuate with few five or six strong ribs grouped in the median part.
Teeth with side cusps obsolete on centrals and laterals otherwise as in Ashmunella and many other ground Helices.
Salivary glands connected merely by some narrow bands above.
Lung with simple pulmonary vein or  rachis the venation chiefly transverse and on the intestinal side flouble the length of kidney.
Kidney bandlike three times the length of the pericardium in the type species.
Ttpe.
 Sonorella hachitana Dall.
Diitribution.
 Xew Mexico Arizona and probably southern Oalifornia and adjacent portions of Lower California and Mexico.
Affinities.
 Sonorella is like Ashmunella in genitalia except that the spermatheca is normally developed and the epiphallus is more embraced by the penis retractor muscle.
It also agrees in the pallial organs except that the lung is shorter.
The shell differs widely from that of Ashmunella being like the dartbearing Galifornian Helices from which Sonorella differs greatly in genitalia and to a less degree in the shorter lung with but slightly developed venation on the cardiac side of the rachis.
The new genus therefore stands decidedly nearest to Ashmunella but in some important characters spermatheca jaw and shell it is like Epiphragmophora and thus is a connecting link between the two groups.
Sonorella hacMtana.
The specimens examined were collected by Rev.
E. H Ashmuu at Oak Creek Purtyman's Arizona.
Genitalia PI.
XXI fig 5.
 Atrium extremely short.
Penis slender and small continued beyond its apex in an epiphallus of about the same diameter its lower portion somewhat sinuous and completely enveloped in the lower portion of the penis retractor muscle which has the usual insertion on the lung floor.
Latter portion of the epiphallus free ending in an extremely short flagellum fig.
5 fl..
The vagina is much longer than the penis spermatheca ovate and very large with the duct enlarged for some distance near it  lodged near the heart and caught in the cephalic loop of the aorta.
Duct of the spermatheca very long and slender.
Other 2 organs as in Helicidce generally.
Measurements  length of penis 6 mm.
 of epiphallus portion imbedded in peuis 5 free portion 6 mm.
 of flagellum .7 mm.
Length of vagina 8 mm.
 of spermatheca and its duct 35 mm.
 diam.
of spermatheca 3.5 mm.
PalUal trad PI XXI fig.
2.
 Lung reticulation ahnost wholly confined to the intestinal side where the venation is transverse and branching.
Cardiac side almost plain with only a few faint branches except toward the anterior extremity.
Pulmonary vein simple and direct with no large branches.
Kidney half the length of the lung three times that of the pericardium narrow and bandlike.
Ureter reflexed as usual.
Digestive tract.
 Jaw PI.
XXI fig.
4 similar to that of many Epiphragmophora species .short and stout with five or six strong ribs a little wider than their intervals and grouped in the median portion denticulating both margins the ends of the jaw smooth.
Teeth PI.
XXI fig.
3 37 1 37  13 laterals.
Rachidiaa with the cusp shorter than the basal plate laterals with it longer the side cusps obsolete.
Marginals with the cusps split as in Ashmimella and Pobjcjyra.
Salivaryglands PI.
XXI fig.
2 s.g. long and irregular concrescent above the crop by several bands and filaments separate below.
Crop long and tapering.
Stomach thick.
Folds of ihe intestine mostly exposed on the lower inner face of the left lobe of the liver part of G only immersed.
Free muscles PI.
XXI fig.
1.
 Left ocular band uniting with the pharyngeal retractor on its ventral face at about the posterior third of the length of the latter all the other main muscles fiee except at the coluraellar insertion where they unite.
Buccal retractor ph.
r.  split into three bands anteriorly the two lateral branches once forked.
Ocular bands giving off a group of pedal retractors and the tentacular retractors r.t.r..
Tail retractor t.r.
rather long pulled to the left in the figure.
The right ocular retractor passes between the c
and 
branches of the genitalia.
Comparison with other Genera.
The genitalia of Sonorella agree with Ashmunella in wanting any trace of dartsack or mucous glaids.
The duct of the spermatheca is very long as in that genus but it expands into a large ovate spermatheca as in Epiphragmophora while in Ashmunella there is no distal enlargement.
The structure of the male orirans is like Ashmunella even in the minute vestigial tlagcllum but while Ashmunella has a double insertion of the penis retractor which is attached to both jenis and epiphallus in Sonorella the retractor muscle envelopes the lower portion of the epiphallus down to the penis.
This is a further development of the other structure.
In one species of the subgenus Micrarionta examined by Mr. Vanatta and myself the dartsack is much reduced in size but the mucous glands remain the flagelluni is long and the right ocular retractor does not pass between c
and 
branches of the genitalia.
These features are all unlike hachifana.
The pallial organs are much alike in Sonorella Ashmunella and Epiphragmophora exarata a.nd Jidelis the only species examinedbut the venation of the cardiac side is decidedly sparser in the former two and the kidney is comparatively longer or perhaps it should be said the lung is shorter in Sonorella being only about twice the length of the kidney.
The proportionate length of pericardium is nearly the same m Ashmunella and Sonorella.
Polyryra has a somewhat longer kidney than any of the other genera mentioned.
The teeth are like Ashmunella except in the obsolescence of side cusps on the central and lateral teeth.
The jaw is decidedly like that of Epiphragmophora in both shape and ribbing.
In the free muscles Sonorella agrees with Ashmunella Epiphragmophora fidelis and infumata and even with Helix aspersa in having the left ocular and pedal band united with the pharyngeal retractor the right ocular and pedal hand separate to its insertion.
This arrangement may prove to prevail in the whole of the Belogona though my observations so far cover too few species to generalize upon.
In Pohgijra a Avidely different arrangement obtains the right ocular and pedal band being united tcith the left to a point anterior to the origin of the pharyngeal retractor.
This arrangement recalls Limax and is widely different from Sonorella or Epiphragmophora.
 Epiphragmophora Micrarionta guadalupiana Dall.
These Proceedings for 1898 p. 68 PL I fig.
11.
The lung of Ashmunella thomsonianoj portera is shown in fig.
6 of PI.
XXL Except for the pulmonary vein it appears plain unless viewed by transmitted light when a sparse venation similar to that of Sonorella apptars chiefly on the intestinal side.
The kidney is abont 3 times the length of the pericardium the lung decidedly over double the length of kidney.
Measuremenis are as follows total length of lung 26 of kidney 12 mm.
 and another specimen lung 24 kidney 11 mm.
 the last wns measured from the outside through the transparent mantle.
The specimens were from the type locality Beulah X. M. sent by Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell.
560 proceedings of the academy of 1900.
Species of Sonorella.
The anatomy is known only in hachitana  but from conchological indications the following specie originally described as  Helix or  Eplphragmophora'' probably belong to Sonorella magdalenensis Stearns coloradoensis Stearns arizonensis Dall rowelli Newc indioensis Yates and lohrii Gabb possibly also the true carpenteri Newc though if Binney's description of the genitalia of this species was from a correctly determined specimen it will belong to Epiphragmophora.
In the Classified Catalogue published in the Nautilus p 5 of separate copies the new genus will probably include numbers 29 or 30 to 35.
Sonorella is probably not much nearer Epiphragmojjhora in shell characters than Askmunella is to Polygyra  but in this case the distribution is less restricted and compact and the prediction of generic position by shell characters may perhaps not have the brilliant fufillment that further material has demonstrated in the case of Ashmunella.
Still I feel some confidence in the list as given.
This is the third American genus of Belogona established since the publication of my Guide to the Study of Helices in 1895 the others being Ashmunella Pils.
and Ckll.
and Metostracon Pils.
In internal structure the American Belogona euadenia are vastly more varied than any known in the Old World.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXI.
Fig.
1.
Sonorella hachitaiia Dall.
Free muscles dorsal aspect the tail retractor brought to the left side l.r. left labial retractor pn.r. pharyngeal retractor pp.r. pedal retractors r.o.t.r. right ocular tentacle retractor r.t.r. right tentacular retractor t.r. tail retractor.
Fig.
2.
Pallial region and digestive tract X 2.
G G second and fourth folds of the intestine k. kidney m. mantle p. pneumostome s.g. salivary glands . ureter.
Fig.
3.
Teeth.
Fig.
4.
Jaw.
Fig.
5.
Genitalia.
epi. epiphallus . flagellum p. penis p.r. retractor muscle of the penis sp. spermatheca sp.d. duct of the spermatheca.
Fig.
6.
Ashmunella thomsoniana porteraP. and C. Pallial organs.
 I have not seen authentic specimens of coloradoensis and arizonensis and insert thoiu with some reserve.
