POST-LARVAL CHANGES IN THE VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS OF SPELERPES AND OTHER SALAMANDERS.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
In defining the minor subdivisions of the Urodela, Cope and Boulenger have given fundamental importance to the form of the vertebral central articulations.
Cope ('89, p. 33, and earlier papers) arranges the families of Pseudosauria in two series, the one characterized by amphicoilous, the other bj opisthocoelus veitebrse, and on p. 190 he states that the peculiarity of the vertebne chiefly distinguishes the Desmognathidte from the Plethodontidse.
Boulenger ('82, p. 2), whose subfamilies of salamanders have nearly the same content as Cope's families, mentions the form of the central articulations as the sole distinguishing feature between his Plethodontinffi and Desmognathime.
Apparently the only serious criticism of the value of this character has been made by Vaillant, who in a short note ('84) describes the vertebrae of Autodax (Anaides) luf/ubris as opisthoccelous.
Boulenger, after an examination of the dissection made by the French zoologist, characterizes ('85) this statement as erroneous.
In a second note ('86) Vaillant explains the reason for this difference of opinion and reiterates his former statement.
The vertebrae in question he describes as osteologically amphicoelous but physiologically opisthocoelous, meaning by this that if the actual bone tissue alone be considered the centra are biconcave ; but that the anterior cup is filled by a cartilaginous nodule, which projects freely in the form of a hemipshere whose free surface fits into the posterior socket of the preceding vertebra.
If a full-grown larva of Spelerpes ruber be examined, the vertebral centra will be found to be very deeply concave.
The apices of the two cone-shaped cavities almost meet at the middle of the vertebra, where they communicate through a small foramen through which the here constricted uotochord passes.
The cavities are largely occupied by the notochord, which suffers a second (intervertebral) constriction due to an annular thickening of the car40 tilaginous notochordal sheath by which contiguous vertebrse are bound together.
After the metamorphosis, when the young salamander has a length of 90-100 mm., this cartilaginous ring increases in thickness and extent so that it largely replaces and constricts the notochord.
The cartilage becomes firmer and may be removed in its entirety as a fusiform nodule bearing fragments of the notochord at its ends.
If the vertebral column, either in its fresh state or after preservation in alcohol, be bent sharply so that it parts intervertebrally, this nodule will remain attached indiflferently either to the anterior or posterior contiguous vertebra.
Gradually the cartilage extends, encroaching more and more on the notochord, and at the same time its posterior peripheral parts begin to calcify, first in a post-equatorial zone which lies just within the rim of the anterior cup of the succeeding vertebra.
In individuals having a length of 120 mm.^ this calcified ring is already quite conspicuously developed and has united with the anterior vertebral rim.
Dried skeletons of this stage show the anterior vertebral cup with a thick, rather rough rim and a correspondingly constricted opening, while the posterior cup remains almost exactly of its previous form and j)roportions.
Its opening is large, uncoustricted and has a smooth, thin margin which embraces the next succeeding centrum ; its inner surface is bounded everywhere by hard, true bone lined by a thin layer of cartilage.
^Moreover, if the column be forcibly broken as described above, the cartilaginous nodule almost invariably jjarts from the preceding and remains attached to the succeeding vertebra, showing its more intimate organic union with the latter.
A smooth articulation between this cartilage and the posterior face of the preceding vertebra begins to be evident and the contiguous centra are united In' an annular intervertebral ligament.
A condition closely approximating that just described is figured by Wiedersheim ('93, p. 61, fig.
41,C.
).
With increasing age and size the calcified area continues tu encroach on the cartilaginous matrix.
The ring becomes thicker and its posterior margin exteuds toward the middle region of the centrum.
As a result the anterior cavity of ihe bony vertebra grows ^ As there appears to be some individual variation in the rate of change.
the conditions descrihcd mnst be undei'stood as belonging to individuals of only approximately the lengths stated.
smaller as it is filled up from the bottom and sides by the gradual replacement of true cartilage by calcified cartilage.
To a corresponding degree the cartilaginous nodule becomes incorporated with the succeeding vertebra and structurally separated from the preceding one.
In ordinary breeding individuals, having a length of 130-150 mm., is reached the condition which Vaillant has happily described as physiologically opisthoca?lous, in which the actual intervertebral centre of movement is between a cartilaginous ball structurally united with the anterior end of one vertebra and a deep cup borne on the posterior face of the other.
There is no synovial articulation formed at this stage but only a curved surface of fracture which divides the intervertebral cartilage.
In still larger individuals, up to a length of 170 mm., which are not rare, the process of calcification has extended all through the cartilage within the anterior vertebral cup, at first leaving here and there little lakes of unaltered cartilage, wdiich are finally also affected by the change.
The transformation of tissue then overflows the boundaries of the cup, first at the rim, but gradually extends into the centre and anterior superfices of the cartilaginous head.
At this period of development the unchanged cartilage has been reduced to a cap which fits over a rounded calcified head of its transformed substance and becomes constantly reduced in thickness as the process of calcification extends.
If the cartilage be scraped away or shrunken by complete drying a larger or smaller central depression appears in the anterior face of the vertebra at the point where the notochord and its cartilaginous envelope longest persist.
Finally, in the very largest individual which I have seen, which, if the tail were complete, would measure upward of 180 mm., the vertebrse are quite as opisthoccelous as even in the largest individuals of Desmognathus.
The anterior ball has become, with the exception of a thio articular surface such as persists in all opisthoccelous salamanders, completely calcified and as hard and dense as the body of the vertebra.
So far as microscopical examination has extended, this calcified tissue does not become true bone.
In sections after removal of the lime salts the original cartilage, except for the rearrangement of the cells, remains in a nearly unaltered state.
In many of the larger specimens the annular intervertebral ligament ossifies, beginning at its anterior attachment and extending caudad.
By this means the rim of the posterior cup is built up higher and the socket deepened.
Between the overlapping vertebral rims an annular synovial sac is developed.
Whether the vertebrse of Spelerpes ruber axQ pi operly designated as amphiccelous or opisthocoelous depends, therefore, on the age of the individual under consideration, and whether attention is directed to the bony parts only or to the cartilage as well.
During late larval life and for a time after the metamorphosis, the vertebrse are both osteologically*^ and physiologically amphiccelous.
During the prime of life they are still amphiccelous so far as the strictly bony portions of the centra are concerned; but if, as seems more logical, the cartilaginous structures also are considered they cannot be characterized otherwise than as opisthocoelous.
In old age they are opistboccelous in every sense in which that term can be applied to \he vertebric of Desmognathus.
Developmental progress in the structure of the vertebrte from a primitive to a more specialized type is continuous throughout life.
It is well known that the amphiccelous condition of the vertebrae of th( higher salamanders is attained by a course of development essentially similar to what has just been described for Spelerpes.
The examination of a large series of Desmognathus fusca and D. nigra shows that this is true of these species.
The species of Desmognathus transform when of much smaller size relatively to the limit of growth than those of Spelerpes.
The just transformed D. fusca is about one-half the length of S. ruber at a corresponding period, although the breeding adults are only about twenty per cent, inferior.
Calcification of the intervertebral cartilage proceeds quite rapidly, so that individuals of 50-60 mm.
are in the same stage as Spelerpes ruber of 135-140 mm.
Even before attaining a length of 100 mm.
the vertebrie are as strictly opisthocttlous as in the largest S. ruber, and have attained that condition by a similar series of steps.
It is noticeable that the calcified material of the ball is softer than the fully ossified portions of the vertebrae, and that small enclosures of unchanged cartilage may persist, as Avell as a remnant in the centre of its free surface, where a depression appears in the dry skeleton.
The later development consists simply in the completion of calcification.
^ Used in the sense of Vaillant iu the papers cited, and of some system at'sts to denote the condition ol actual bone and calcification.
The vertebrre of the two forms now under consideration do not properly belong to two types, but differ only in the period of life at which the steps in development arc passed through and at which the higher structural type is attained.
The completely osseous opisthocoelous condition is reached in Desmognathus fusca prior to the period of maturity and reproduction, in Spelerpes ruber only after that period.
It seemed desirable to ascertain whether these conditions are general among the genera of the more primitive families of the Pseudosauria.^ As it was important to mutilate most of the material as little as possible, but a single articulation was generally exposed and studied on each specimen, and for the sake of uniformity this was always the same one, the fifth anterior to the sacral vertebra being selected for various reasons.
The following notes show the character of typical genera : AMBLYSTOMID^.
The largest available specimens of Amblystoma opacum, A. tigrinum, A. punctatum and A. jeffersonianum were examined without the detection of any changes of the nature sought.
Throughout life the vertebrae appear to remain deeply and equally am phi ccelous and the intervertebral cartilage to undergo uo calcification.
Chondrotus tenebrosus.
It was fully expected that this species, because of its large size and robust build, might present calcified intervertebral cartilages, but even an unusually large individual (282 mm.)
remains in the simplest amphicoelous condition.
The two faces of the centi'um are equally and very deeply cupped.
The notochord is largely persistent.
The intervertebral thickening of the cartilaginous sheath is slight and extends into the concavities of the contiguous vertebrae, from which it may be easily removed without injury.
PLETHODONTID^.
The very small species of this family will require to be studied by means of sections, but the following will illustrate the conditions met with : — ' This I have been enabled to partially do cbiefly tbrongb the courtesy of tbe Curators of the Academy of Xatiiral Sciences of Philadelphia, and especially of the Conservator of Yertehrata.
^Ir.
Witmer Stone, who placed at my disposal the extensive collections of that institntion.
Hemidactylium scutatum.
The largest specimens examined measure 80-85 mm.
and are strictly amphicoelous.
Plethodon cinereus.
Always strictly amphicoelous.
This species and the next are among those which show that neither a terrestrial habit nor a long period of growth between metamorphosis and maturity is the determining factor in the complete calcification of the articular head.
Flethodon glutinosus.
Many specimens of this species were examined, including two large ones of 167 mm.
and 177 mm., belonging to the collection at the Academy, All have deeply biconcave vertebrie without any visible sign of calcification of the intervertebral cartilage, though in the larger individuals it is evidently more firmly attached to the succeeding than the preceding vertebra.
Although there is na fully formed articulation, a definite curved surface of fracture corresponding to one is developed.
Plethodon aeneus.
Plethodon oregonensis.
Botli am})hic(el()us.
Of the former the largest specimen examined measured 164 mm.
; in this the whole body of the vertebra appears to be somewhat imperfectly ossified.
Autodax lugubris.
In two examples of 90 mm.
and lOo mm.
length the vertebrae are biconcave, with the intervertel)ral cartilage unmodified and most strongly attached by the articular ligaments to the anterior vertebra.
The intervertebral articulation is developed.
Two others of about 145 mm.
have the posterior face deeply cupped, the anterior, after removal of the cartilage, much more shallow and rough from the development of calcified tissue.
The uncalcified cartilage has a smooth surface which fits into the next anterior socket.
Geotriton fusous.
Only one small specimen of SG mm.
was available for dissection, and this was nearly equally amphicivlous, with the intervertebral cartilage remaining attached to the posterior face on being fractured.
Murray ('97) has figured a section of a vertebra of thia species which exhibits no modification of the cartilaginous intervertebral ring.
Probably older specimens would shoAV changes similar to Spelerpes ruber.
(Edipus variegatus.
One with the tail missing and the body measuring 45 mm.
in length has the anterior face slightly less cupped than the posterior, and retaining the intervertebral cartilage.
In two specimens of 145 mm.
and 147 mm.
the anterior cup is about one-third filled with calcified cartilage.
Gyrinophilus porphyriticus.
A larva of 7>i mm.
has the bony centra deeply biconcave, the notochord largely persistent but constricted by a narrow but rather thick intervertebral cartilaginous ring.
A specimen of 106 mm., probably recently metamorphosed, exhibits a much more extensively developed intervertebral cartilage, but appears to be unchanged otherwise.
In one of 133 mm.
the notochord is still largely persistent, the intervertebral articulation has formed in the cartilage as a curved plate of flattened cells and the widely flaring posterior rim of the bony centrum begins to overlap and embrace the more constricted anterior rim.
This is nearly the stage figured by Wiedersheim.
One of 172 mm.
shows aslisrht annular calcification of the intervertebral cartilage within the anterior cup.
In individuals of larger size the process of calcification is rapid.
One measuring 185 mm.
has the anterior cup filled flush to the brim with calcified tissue which px'eseuts a rough, nearly flat surface when the cartilaginous head is scraped away.
The largest specimen examined measured 200 mm., and in this the calcification extends slightly beyond the cup's rim.
Spelerpes bellii.
This large species probably undergoes intervertebral calcification, if at all, relatively later than S. ruber.
In specimens of 180 mm.
and 240 mm.
no trace of calcareous infiltration could be delected.
In both cases the intervertebral cartilage is more firmly attached by the articular ligaments to the anterior vertebra than by direct union to the posterior one.
Spelerpes longicudus.
Of all the species of Plethodontidre examined this appears to be the most precocious in respect to the feature under consideration.
In an example measuring only 90 mm.
calcification has already progressed so far as to fill about one-half of the anterior cup, and in one of 135 mm.
the cup is filled to the brim, leaving only a very slight central depression.
Spelerpes bilineatus.
Spelerpes guttolineatus.
Exhibit changes similar in character but somewhat more tardy in the time of their appearance.
DESMOO-NATHID^.
Typhlotriton spelseus.
The vertebne of a 90 mm.
example of this interesting blind salamander, of which only slightly larger specimens have been taken, are in about the same condition as those of a 60 mm.
D. fusca, and consequem ly opisthocoelous only in the sense in which a mature Spelerpes ruber is opisthocoelous.
Desmognatlius nigra.
Similar to D. fusca, but somewhat more retarded in development.
Leurognathus marmorata.
Of this species only a siugle skeleton of a length of 117 mm.
has been examined.
It diffei'S from Desmognatlius only in the greater prominence of the articular head.
Of the Salamandridiie and Pleurodelidic no specimens were examined in this connection, as the vertebne are well known through the researches of Wiedersheim ('75) and others to be strongly opisthocoelous and to ossify early.
When recourse is had to sections of a sufficient series of stages, other interesting changes and generic differences will no doubt appear ; but from the study of gross features alone it becomes evident that as regards the form of the vertebral articulations the genera of the families of salamanders present an unbroken developmental series.
The Amblystomidte are probably always amphiccelous throughout life.
Within the Plethodontidfe the genera arrange themselves in two groups, the one including Plethodon and Hemidadylium, the other Spelerpes, GyrinophilHS, Autodax and (Edijms.
The Plefhodou group remains in the primitive state with little or no post-larval calcification of the intervertebral cartilages.
The members of the Spelerpes group all (S. bellii f) tend toward the opisthocoelous condition, and earlier or later in life the intervertebral cartilages are affected by a process of calcification which is progressive and may finally involve the entire substance of the articular heads.
It may be observed that the grouping of the genera as suggested, wiih the exception of Autodax, is confirmatory of Cope's view of their affiniiies.
Desmognathus and its allies arrive at the final opisthoccelous stage much earlier but by a series of post-larval stages quite similar.
Many peculiar structural features segregate the amphiccelous Amblystomidae, on the one hand, and the opisthoccelous Salamandridee and Pleurodelidte, on the other, into distinct family groups.
The failure of the only important character which has seemed to make the family distinction of the Plethodontid?e and Desmognathidie desirable renders their separate continuance no longer necessary.
Although Leurognathns resembles Desmognathxis in the absence of a prefi'ontal bone in the adult, this is a very doubtful character, and in any case would probably have, with the peculiarities of the tongue, no more than subfamily value.
The family should retain the prior name of Plethodontidse.
It seems to represent a phyletic line connected directly with the lower amphiccelous salamanders ; and distinct from the Amphiumid^e, on the one hand, and the Pleurodelidse and Salamandridse on the other.
List of Papers Cited.'
Boulenger, G. A.
'83.
Catalogue of the Batrachia Gradientia in the Collection of the British Museum.
2d ed.
London, 1882.
Boulenger, G. A.
^^h.
Reptilia and Batrachia.
The Zoological Record for 1884.
Cope, E. D. '89.
The Batrachia of North America.
Bulletin No.
34, U. S. National Museum, Washington, 1889.
Gegenbaur, C. '62.
Untersuchungen zur vergleichenden Anatomic der Wirbelsaiile der Amphibien und Reptilien.
Leipzig, 1862.
Murray, J.
A.
'97.
The Vertebral Column of certain primitive Urodela.
Anatomischer Anzeiger, XIII, 661-2.
Vaillant, T. '82.
Remarque sur la disposition des corps vertebraux chez I'Anaides lugubris Hallowell.
Bulletin de la Societe Philomathique de Paris (7), VI (1882), 183.
Vaillant, T. '86.
Note complemeDtaire sur ranatomie de I'Anaides lugubris Hallo well.
2d.
(7), X (1886), 42-43.
Wiedersheim, K. '75.
Versuch einer vergleichenden Anatomie der Salaraandrinen.
Genoa, 1875.
Wiedersheim, R. '93.
Grundriss der vergleichenden Anatomie der Wirbelthiere.
Jena, 1893.
