THE LAND MOLLUSKS OF THE LOO CHOO ISLANDS OLAUSILIID.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Seven or eight years ago at the time of my first studies upon Japanese moUusks only two species of Claunlia were known from the Loo Choo Islands C. vcdida Pfeiffer described from specimens collected by Largilliert and C. jrtecara Gould'collected by William Stimpson naturalist of the U. S. North Pacific Exploring Expedition under Commanders Ringgold and Rodgers.
Mr. Frederick Stearns brought a third species taken on Okinawa which I described in 1894 as C. Stearmii and a fourth was sent in 1900 by Mr. Hirase C. hjperoptyx from the same island.
Two other species C. BernarcUi Pfr.
and C. ptychoGliila Bttg. supposed to be from Siam and China respectively seem from their characters to be so near Loo Chooan species that I think their formerly assigned habitats were probably erroneous and that both really came from the Loo Choo Islands.
Acting upon this hypothesis I provisionally include them in the following account.
Through the researches conducted by my esteemed correspondent Mr. Y. Hirase the number of species known from these beautiful and interesting islands has now been increased to eleven  not counting the two species of doubtful provenance alluded to above.
Up to this time we have received species from only three islands  Yayeyama in the southwestern group Okinawa or Great Luchu in 1 Zeitselir.f.
Malak. 1849 p. 106  Mon.
Hel.
Viv. III.
p. 591.
Kiister Conchyl.
Cah. Clausilia PI.
23 figs.
13 figures of Pfeiffer's type.
Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. VI p. 425 February 1859  Otia Coneh. p. 103.
The name prcBcktm being preoccupied in Clausilia Pfeiffer changed it to C. excellem Jour de ConcJiyl. p. 263 1361 basing the new name on Gould's description.
Nautilus VIII p. 47 August 1894 Catal.
Mar.
Moll.
Jap. Appendix p. 163 PI.
1 fig.
12.
 These Proceedings 1900 p. 446 PI.
XIV figs.
1214. '
This includes the species of Oshima as this island belongs both geographically and faunally to the Loo Choo group.
Being politically a part of Kagoshima Ken or prefecture it is not usually considered by the Japanese to be one of the Loo Choo group which in ordinary parlance includes merely the Central and Further groups of islands belonging to Okinawa Ken.
the centx'al group aud Oshima in the northeastern group.
There can be no doubt that when other islands are explored many more species will be brought to light and our zoogeographic knowledge correspondingly expanded.
The known species fall into five subgenera or sections StereophcBdusa Luchuphcediisa Hemiphcedusa Tyrannophcedusa  and Zaptyx.
Of these the section Luchupluedusa comprising about half the species now known has been found nowhere but on these islands.
Zaptyx extends into the southernmost provinces of Kiusiu in the neighborhood of Kagoshima Bay and probably borne by the  Kuro Shi wo  has reached Hachijo an islet a hundred miles off Izu province but a Loo Chooan origin of the group seems probable.
Stereophtulusa and HemiphEdusa range further being common throughout Japan and the latter group is widespread on che Chinese mainland  but the species of the Loo Choo Islands belong to a fecial group of Hemiphcedusa which has not been found elsewhere.
The single species referred doubtfully to Tyrannophcedusa has no close relatives but seems nearer ta Japanese than to any Chinese species known to me.
The sections EiLphcedusa and Megalophcedusa so characteristic of Japan are wanting in the Loo Choos so far as present information goes and Relnia has not been found.
So much for the distribution of the groups.
Descending to species we find not one common to the Loo Choo Islands and any other land.
The general affinities of the dciusilia fauna we may conclude are closest with Japan though the endemic element is so strong that no relationship at all intimate can be claimed.
No characteristic Formosau forms of Chtusilia have been found in the Loo Choo group.
Section STEREOPHDUSA Bttg.
Clausilia valida Pfr.
Originally described from the  Liew Kiew  Islands this species is known from Okinawa Island only.
It has been collected there by the Japanese collectors sent by Dr. Adolph Fritze in 1891 by Mr. Frederick vStearns about the same time aud has also been taken by Mr. Hirase's collector.
The typical form is uniform brownish yellow.
The chestnutbanded form with the coai'se sculpture of the type has been named var.
fasciata by ISIr.
E. R. Sykes' Another banded variety may be called var perfasciata.
It is similar to C. valida fasciata Sykes but larger the broad purpielrowu band more strongly contrasted with the whitish or pale buff bands above and below it aperture longer more piriform.
The sculpture is perceptibly finer than in valida.
The types of this form are from the province Kuuchan Okinawa Island No.
633 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A third form of the species var.
striaiella nov. has the coloring of var.
fasciata but darker on the last two whorls with the same rather wide aperture dusky purplish within but the surface is far more finely striated there being fully twice as many stride as there are in valida.
The size is about the same.
Length 28 diam 6 mm. 71 whorls remaining.
Length 25j diam.
61 mm. 61 whorls remaining.
The types are 79116 Cdl.
A. N. S. P. from 462 of Mr. Hirase's collection labeled  Loo Choo.
Clausilia Stearnsii Pilslry.
The types were taken on Okinawa by the collector sent by Mr. Frederick Stearns in 18912.
They measuie length 26 to 31 diam.
5 mm.
Specimens sent this year from Yayeyama by Mr. Hirase No.
622 measure 2628 by 5 mm.
Others sent from  Loo Choo are more slender length 25251 diam.
4 mm. with 12 whorls and a less distinct lunella than the tyjDes.
C. Stearnsii is very distinct by its receding inferior lamella and the development of a lunella both being characters unlike most other species of Stereopihczdusa.
Section LUCHUPHiEDUSA nov. Clausilium wide trunmte or notched distaUy and with a thickened lobe or fingerlike process on Ihe columellar side of the apex standing at nearly a right angle with the body of the plate.
Shell fusiform the right margin of the peristome usually crenate outer margin excavated above to form a sinulus superior lamella marginal projecting continuous with the long spiral lamella  The Coachologist II p. 118.
Figure 52 of Sowerby's monograph in the Conchologia Iconica XX evidently is intended to represent one of the specimens mentioned by Mr. Sykes.
inferior lamella strongly spiral within calloused below  subcolumellar lamella dilated adjacent to the very long and strong lower palatal plica which is united with the lunella when that is present principal plica long upper palatal plica developed sometimes coalescent with the lunella.
The shell in this section is similar to that of the Laoup of C. ptychochila in general characters but differs in the dilation of the subcohimellar lamella and in the much higher simple spiral plate of the inferior lamella within the last whorl.
Like the group mentioned its peculiarities are an exaggeration of the platydera group of HemipjJuvdusa which may be looked upon as a sort of unspecialized branch of the common stock.
The clausilium however is so peculiar and unlike any Phtedusoid group hitherto known that the erection of a new section is reriuired.
The lamellse and plice are all very strongly developed within and the former are unusually long passing the ventral position.
Luchuphcedusa has much in common with the section Emarginaria Bttg.
of the German upper Miocene in which a similar emarginate or notched clausilium and the same interlamellar plication is developed  but the Miocene forms retain a primitiv e structure of the palatal region where several plicae are developed while Luehuphcednsa is very highly specialized there.
The resemblance is pai'tially due to convergent evolution.
Key to species of Luc hup heed iisa by external characters.
1.
 Right margin of the peristome crenulate a.
 Aperture narrow the sinulus strongly developed princi pal plica reaching to the lip last whorl strongly compressed Oshima.
b.
 Subcolumellar lamella wholly immersed though the lip is crenate at its position .
.
.
C. oshinue.
b'.
 iSubcolumellar lamella emerging to the lipedge C. pseudoshimce.
a'.
 Aperture moderately wide of noi'mal proportions piriformovate principal plica immersed as usual.
b.
 Rather large the broad right lip deeply plicate length about 23 mm.
Okinawa C. callistochila.
b'.
 Small length about 12 mm.
 the right lip narrow and not very strougly crenate Oshima C mima.
2.
 Right margin of the peristome smooth aperture semicircular inferior and subcolumellar lamellfe emerging to the lipedge length 3034 mm.
Oshima .... C. nesiothauma.
All of the species of this section are new and from the two islands Okinawa and Oshima.
Clausilia callistochila n. sp.
PI.
XXII.
figs.
1 2 3.
Hhell thick and strong pale brown or green from adhering algte rimate turreted the upper third of the length attenuated with slightly concave outlines the lower twothirds rather swollen the penultimate whorl widest the last half of the last whorl contracted compressed laterally.
The apex is obtuse.
Whorls 11 the early ones worn smooth the I'est closely ribstriate the riblets on the last whorl coarser and more widely spaced somewhat undulating and irregular.
Aperture vertical rhombicpiriform with distinct sinulus the peristome expanded and reflexed thick white the left margin wide aud thick as far up as the sinulus where it is abruptly excavated right margin froin the superior lamella to the base deeply cut into rounded entering ur inkles which deeply crenulate the lipedge.
Superior lamella subvertical rather thick emerging to the margin continuous with the high long and strongly developed spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella subhorizoutal strongly approaching the superior lamella within heavy not reaching the lipmargin very strongly spiral inside.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lipedge where it forms one of the series of lipfolds.
Piincipal plica strong and nearly a whorl long reaching nearly to the lip extending inward far beyond the lunella.
Upper palatal plica long converging inwardly toward the principal plica  lunella short and very obliquely running inward arising below from a very strong and high angularly bent long lower jxdatal plica.
Clausilium PI.
XXII fig.
4 broad irregularly curved abruptly truncate below slightly thickened along the palatal margin the apical end of the columellar margin much thickened bent nearly at a right angle with the rest of the surface producing a blunt tooth or lobe.
Length 24 diam.
5f longest axis of aperture 5f mm.
Length 22f  diam.
5f  longest axis of aperture 6 mm.
Province Kunchan Okinawa Mr. Y. Hirase No.
634.
An extraordinary species not only by the interpalatal lamellae which deeply crenulate the lip but also by the long and high lower palatal fold and very oblique lunella the two united in such fashion as to make the figure of an almost prostrate letter  reminding one of the lunella of some of the C. platydera group of Hemiphiediisa but unlike that group an upper palatal plica is developed.
The clausilium is very peculiar.
Clausilia nesiothauma n. .sp.
PI.
XXII figs.
19 20 21.
Shell large fusiform rather obese below moderately tapering above fleshywhitish the surface lustreless and where not overgrown with algse or worn smooth sculptured with moderately coarse somewhat waved ribstriie branching or with intercalated striie on the upper half of the last whorl.
Apex small the first wiiorl rapidly enlarging sometimes selfamputated and plugged.
Whorls 10 the la.st tapering below having a broadly rounded basal crest running to the lower angle of the aperture.
Aperture vertical semicircular in general contour obtusely angular at the sinulus and at the foot of the columella the inner margin being straightened the outer rounded.
Peristome white the outer and basal margins flaring broadly reflexed the inner margin sloping emarginate at the termination of the superior lamella arcuate along the interlamellar space then straightened.
Superior lamella strong slightly oblique marginal continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella very strong calloused and thick forming a squarish columellar fold abruptly lower or sometimes bifid where it extends upon the peristome.
Subcolumellar lamella emergmg very strong and prominent extending to the lipedge.
Principal plica about onethird of a whorl long lateral in position.
Lunella arcuate its upper end curving well inward being completely united with and curving into a short upper palatal plica below the lunella becomes strong and high and joins the middle of an extremely strong long arched lower palatal fold the summit of which curves downward and almost meets a broad erect plate which at this point rises from the subcolumellar lamella.
The lower end of the lower palatal plica is visible from the aperture in a front or slightly oblique view.
The inferior lamella is continued inward as a strongly spiral erect plate rather distant from the spiral lamella on the dorsal side but approaching it and becoming rather abruptly lower ventrally both penetrating to beyond the middle of the ventral side.
The subcolumellar lamella inward from the expansion toward the lower palatal plica is slightly sigmoid and not parallel inside with the inferior lamella.
Clausilium figs.
15 16 rather broad in the middle slightly tapering toward each end the lower end abruptly truncate emarginate or notched a somewhat thickened fingerlike and more curved process extending downward on the coluraellar side  proximal end passing gradually into the rather broad filament.
Length 34 diam.
7.8 lougest axis of aperture 9.4 mm.
Length 30.5 diam.
7.5 longest axis of aperture 9 mm.
Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
652.
Readily known by its large size and the peculiar shape of the aperture.
Clausilia oshimae n. sp.
PI.
XXII figs.
.5 6.
Shell fusiform the upper third slender and somewhat attenuated the lower half rather swollen penultimate whorl Avidest.
Very solid and strong.
Pale brownish more or less eroded.
Closely and rather strongly striate.
Apex small the first whorl rapidly increasing next three or four whorls very slowly widening whorls about 11 the last whorl tapering laterally compressed flattened having a shallow pit behind the middle of the outer lip rounded at the base.
Aperture earshaped oblique produced in a deep retracted sinulus above.
Peristome reflexed thickened a slight ridge running  behind the outer lip parallel with it outer lip obtusely toothed at the termination of the principal phca thin above rather broad below the tooth.
Inner lip projecting in the middle cut into six or eight rounded unequal interlamellar folds and similarly or more weakly crenate to or below the subcolumellar lamella.
Superior lamella vertical emerging beyond the general level of the peristome continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella very prominently projecting into the aperture subhorizontal and somewhat thickened below.
Subcolumellar lamelUt wholly immersed but replaced on the lip by rugie occupying its place.
Principal plica very long reaching to the lip and running inward over a whorl very strong.
Upper palatal plica short weak and lateral lower palatal plica very strong and long its lower end visible within the aperture in an obhque view.
Lunella apparently wanting.
Within the inferior lamella is a very high strongly but somewhat irregularly spiral plate the spiral lamella is also very high almost touching the principal plica and both lamellae penetrate far past the ventral side.
The subcolumellar lamella is short as usual but strong near its deeply immersed lower end.
Length 22.5 diam.
4.5 longest axis of aperture 5.6 mm.
Length 21 diam.
4.5 longest axis of aperture 5 mm.
The clausilium PI.
XXII figs.
12 13 14 is strongly curved below and becomes very thick toward the apex.
The distal end has two apices separated by a notch the outer one conic and rather broad the inner blunt and bent nearly at a right angle with the body of the plate.
Xase Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
653a.
This exceedingly peculiar species has the crenulate right lip of most of its group but it differs from all known species except the next in the great development of the posterior bay or  sinulus  of the aperture.
It is difficult to gain a correct conception of the closing apparatus so contracted is the cavity of the last whorl by the enormously developed lamellse and plicre.
The deeply immersed subcolumellar lamella is a prominent feature differentiating C. oshimce from C. jseudoshimce  but as I have remarked above this is masked by the sulcation of the lip by which rounded lamellae are produced in the subcolumellar position.
Clausilia pseudoshimae n. sp.
PI.
XXII titrs.
7 S 9 10.
Shell very similar externally to C. oshimce a little smaller aperture and lip the same except that the subcolumellar lamella emerges to the Uiedrje.
Internal structure the same except that the spiral trend of the inferior lamella as seen from the back in an opened shell is made irregular by two prominent angles there is a rather long laterodorsal ujper palatal plica opposite the great lateral dilation of the inferior lamella.
The very long lower palatal plica gives off a very short and extremely oblique lunella in a ventral position where the clausilium lodges.
The clausilium PI.
XXII fig.
11 has two subequal blunt apical points separated by a rather wide notch.
Length 19.3 diam.
4 longest axis of aperture 5 mm.
Length 17 diam.
4 longest axis of aperture 4.7 mm.
Furuniya Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
6536.
Strikingly like C. oshimce in general aspect yet readily distinguishable by a number of important interna characters.
On cutting the shell it is found to be decidedly less strong than in the other species.
The clausilium lodges in a ventral position.
The form of the basal lip is poorly represented in fig.
8.
The other fiirures show it correctlv.
Clausilia mima n. sp.
PI.
XXIII figs.
37 38 39.
Shell small fusiform rather obese but rapidly tapering and conspicuously attenuated above  thin and not very strong pale brown densely and finely ribstriate.
Whorls 8 to 9 convex the apex rather large next three or four whorls widening but little last half of the last whorl much contracted flattened.
Aperture somewhat oblique small piriform with moderately welldefined sinulus.
Peristome reflexed slightly thickened the outer margin excavated above the upper and right margins more or less crenulate the creuulation varying from strong to subobsolete in difterent specimens.
Superior lamella vertical emerging a little beyond the general level of the peristome slightly wider or bifid at the margin continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella forming a rather strong subhorizontal fold within not emerging to the peristome.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging marginal.
Principal plica about a half whorl long extending from the dorsal to the middle of the ventral side.
Upper palatal plica lateral arcuate converging inward toward the principal plica the outer end contiguous to the lunella the upper end of which curves toward and is almost united with it.
Lunella lateral in position oblique weak above strong below where it unites with the middle of a long very strong and angularly bent lower palatal plica.
The subcolumellar lamella is abruptly and strongly dilated in the region of the lower palatal plica and is bent over toward it beyond this dilation it curves abruptly and ascends the internal column in the usual manner expands again and turns toward the right parallel to the other lamellre upon the roof of the penultimate whorl.
The inferior lamella within the last whorl is stout liigh very strongly spiral and with the spiral lamella continues inward past the ventral side upon which the three lamellte run parallel.
Length 13 diam.
3 mm.
Length 11 diam.
3 mm.
Clausilium PI.
XXII figs.
17 18 broad strongly curved broadly rounded along the outer margin truncate at the apex and produced on the columellar side into a long fingerlike process.
Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
654.
Much smaller than other species of the section and strongly attenuated above like C. hrevior v. Mart.
The process of the 27 clausiliuiu is also longer and the whole plate is strongly twisted spirally.
.. .
Section HEMIPHDUSA Bttg.
Grouj of C. 2tychochila.
In this group the right lij or iuterlaraellar space is more or less creuate the superior and sulcolamellar lamella are marginal the inferior lamella somewhat receding thickened below strongly sigmoid within and in the middle of the dorsal aspect it is low wide and bifid as if composed of two cords twisted round one another.
The lower palatal plica is very strong elevated in the middle where the lunella joins it the latter being very strong below weak above.
The clausilium PI.
XXIII figs.
2629 is wider in the middle than in Ilemiphcedusa tapering above and below strongly curved toward the thickened obtuse apex and with the lateral margins bent nearly at right angles with the rest of the plate forming a sort of spoutlike distal extremity PI.
XXIII figs.
27 28.
This group is probably entitled to separate sectional rank.
It is related to the Japanese group of C. jylntydera but differs in the form of the inferior lamella within the last whorl and iu the clausilium.
Key to species.
1  Inferior lamella thickened but simple below a  Surface strongly ribbed subcoluraellar lamella somewhat dilated in the part adjacent to the lower palatal plica C. Bernardii.
a'.
 Surface more finely costulate  h.  Lunella becoming very weak and curving inward above strong and high below subcolumellar lamella not dilated near the lower palatal plica upper palatal plica weak .
.
C. crenilabium I'.
 Lunella straight shell more obese C. jdychochila.
2.
 Inferior lamella bifid below C. excel
ens.
Clausilia Bernardii Pi'r.
V.
XXIII.
fes.
30 31 32.
C. Bernardii Pfr. Journ.
de Concliyl. IX 1861 p. 267 PI.
15 figs.
1 2  ronogr.
Ilel.
Viv. VI p. 426.
This species was described as from Siam.
It has not been found by any later collectors in that region and there are grave reasons for considering the locality erroneous.
The origmal specimens from.
Beruardi's collection were distribiited to Pfeiffer the Academy of Katural Sciences of Philadelphia and perhaps to other collections and I suppose the figured type is preserved in the collection of the Journal de Conchyliologie in Paris.
Upon examining the species I find that it is very closely related to my C. crenilabium of Kunchan Okinawa in fact so intimately that I have no doubt that C Bernardii really came from Okinawa or some other island of the Loo Choo chain.
No species of the same group has been found in China Tonquin or elsewhere on the mainland and it is apparently a local group specialized on these islands.
The source whence Bernard
procured his specimens is not stated but it is significant that in the same volume of the Journal several species from Japan and the Loo Choo Islands collected by a French naval officer M. Thomas are described.
Probably G. Bernardii was one of the species taken by him in Loo Choo.
C. Bernardii differs from C. crenilabium in having the surfacesculpture very much coarser.
The lunella is very strong below where it joins the middle of an elevated conic lower palatal fold the apex of which overhangs or curves downward in the middle.
Above the lunella rapidly weakens and curves backward into the low upper palatal fold which also has a low continuation on the other side  apertureward  of the lunella.
The projecting squarish inferior lamella is much thickened below and within the last whorl it has the peculiar shape seen in C. crenilabium the spiral portion being superposed at the side of rather than continuous with the externally visible part of the inferior lamella.
It is very strong somewhat expanded in the region of the lunella.
The spiral and inferior lamella3 are of equal length and continue inward past the ventral position to a point in line with the superior lamella.
In G. crenilabium both lamellte extend further inward and the spiral lamella is decidedly longer than the othei.
The crenulation of the interlamellar space is coarser in Bernardii than in crenilabium.
There are 11 whorls the upper ones more attenuated than in crenilabium and the color is corneouswhite not brownish.
The clausilium of G. Bernardii is shaped almost exactly as in C. crenilabium broad in the middle tapering and strongly curved toward the apex which is obtuse slightly thickened and spoutlike from having the lateral edges of the tapering portion abruptly bent toward the convex side of the clau.silium.
The jialatal margin is especially widely reflexed and flattened.
Clausilia ptychocMla BoottKcr.
ri.
xxill figs lo ll 12.
Clausilienstudien p. 66 1877 Jahrb.
d. I.
Malak.
Ges. V p. 57 PI.
3 fig.
8 1878.
The habitat of this species is unknown.
It was described from a single specimen supposed to be from China but without record of locality.
From its characters I think it will be found on Okinawa or some neighboring island.
The type measures length 24 diam.
6 length of apertuie 6 width 4 mm.
It is swollenfusiform densely costulate and whitishcorneous the spire concavely attenuated.
Whorls 11.
The aperture is rhombicpiriform peristome much thickened sinuate and appressed above.
There is a groove separating the superior lamella from the numerous folds which corrugate the interlamellar space.
The inferior lamella is callous below. 
The small upper and the longer lower palatal plicse are united with the short straight lunella which at its base gives off a distinct branch backward.
The clausilium has not been described.
Boettger's description and figures show this to be a species closely related to C. crenilahium and G. Bernardu.
It differs from the former in being more inflated with the lunella apparently straight not curving inward above and nothing is said to indicate that the lower palatal plica has the great height at its junction with the lunella and the strong development seen in C. crenilahium.
It is apparently more finely sculptured than C. Bernardii.
Further collections are needed to determine whether these three species are constantly distinct or united by intermediate examples.
Numbers of specimens of C. Bernardii and C. crenilahium show no tendency toward intergradation and with present knowledge I would not feel justified in uniting the three species.
Dr. von ollendorff has placed ptychochila in the synouomy of excellens Jahrh.
D. Mai.
Ges. X p. 259.
This union is inadmissible.
Clausilia crenilabium n. sp.
PL XXIII figs.
23 21 25 33.
Shell thick and strong brownish buff rimate turreted attenuated above moderately swollen below the last whorl contracted penultimate whorl widest.
Whorls about lh slightly convex.
sculptured with close regular and rather fine ribstrite coarser on the last whorl.
Aperture vertical rhombicpiriforni the peristome white reflexed somewhat thickened the outer lip excavated above to form an indistinct sinulus the uppeimargin to the right of the superior lamella is cut into 3 to 5 entering folds deeply crenulatiug the lipedge the rest of the right margin is rveakly and irregularly subcrenulate.
Superior lamella strong slightly oblique attaining the margin continuous with the long and high spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella strong approaching the superior not reaching upon the lip very heavy and callous below strongly spiral and with a superposed callus within.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging.
Principal plica rather long and strong visible within the aperture extending inward slightly beyond the latero ventral lunella.
Upper palatal plica small and low united with the lunella.
Lower palatal phca short and high angularly elevated and overhanging downward in the middle where the strong lunella joins it.
Clausilium PI.
XXIII figs.
2629 well curved wide above the lower half tapering narrow terminating in a blunt apex which is channeled and spoutlike outside.
Columellar margin thickened near and at the apex palatal margin sinuous bearing a sharp high keellike thickening on the outside along its lower half proximal end emarginate on the columellar side of the filament.
Length 32 diam.
7 longest axis of aperture 7.8 mm.
Length 30 diam.
7.3 longest axis of aperture 8.3 mm.
Length 26 diam 6.3 longest axis of aperture 7 mm.
Kunchan Okinawa Mr. Y. Hirase No.
632a. '
' This species differs from C. callistochila in the weak crenulatiou of the right lip shorter principal plica shorter and differently shaped lower palatal plica the smaller upper palatal which is united with the lunella and especially in the different form of the olausilium.
' Specimens No.
6326 of Mr. Hirase' s collection also from Kunhan the northern province of Okinawa are green from adhering algse evidently having lived in a moist place.
The crenulation of the lip is much less marked theie being but one or two interlamellar folds close to the superior lamella the lower palatal fold and lunella are shortened forming a sort of triangular buttressed pyramid the lunella is very low above and curves into a sub422 July obsolete upper palatal fold.
The clausilium is the same as in the typical form.
The tip of the spire is sometimes lost.
Length 28 diam 6.3 longest axis of aperture 7.2 mm.
Length 287 diam.
6 longest axis of aperture 7.2 mm.
Clausilia excellens Pfeiffer.
PL XXIII ig.
43.
This species was originally described by Gould as C prceclara but this name being preoccupied it was changed by Pfeiffer to C. excellens.
The species was known to Pfeiffer by Gould's description only.
Through the kindness of Prof. William H. Dall I am A able to give a figure of the type specimen from  Loo Choo in the National Museum.
It differs from C. crenilahlum in the slightly stronger striation and the better development of the interlamellar crenulation and from C. crenilabium ptychochila and Benidrdli in the grooving of the top of the inferior lamella which is almost bifid.
In C erenilahiwn and C. Bernardii the inferior lamella is only bifid far within in a dorsal position as shown in PI.
XXIII fig.
25.
In C. excellens this bifid structure has apparently moved downward to the lower end of the lamella.
The clausilium of C. excellens is still unknown u..' as the type specimen has not been opened  and the subgeneric position of the species cannot therefore be considered certain.
It may possibly be a Luchuphcedusa.
1 Grouj of C. munus.
A group of uncertain systematic position probably referable to TtraiinopJuedasa rather than to Hem Ip heed usa  but more material and further study is needed to determine to what extent Ilemlpluedusa is heterogeneous and how it may best be subdivided.
The heavy thickening of the distal end of the clausilium on the columellar side and its short form remove the species described below from Hemiphczdxisa but it differs from the typical forms of Tijrannopluedihsa in the comparatively fewwhorled shell and in details of the palatal armature.
See p. 409 footnote No.
2.
There is a very poor figure of C. excellens in the Concholixjia Iconica XX PI.
X fig.
89.
Clausilia niunus n. sp.
PL XXIII liss.
34.
35.
36.
Shell rather small fusiform slender and much attenuated above rather obese below brown and glossy when unworn but often lustreless and more or less eroded.
Finely and closely striate the later half of the last whorl much more coarsely so.
Whorls 9 to 9 rather convex the penultimate whorl widest the last whorl contracted tapering.
Aperture rhombicovate the peristome whitish reflexed moderately thick slightly emarginate at the position of the superior lamella.
Superior lamella vertical reaching the margin continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella immersed receding not visible in a front view but seen by looking obliquely into the aperture almost straightly ascending inside.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lipedge with a groove on each side.
Principal plica nearly a half whorl long its end visible within the throat from the aperture extending inward slightly beyond the closing apparatus.
Upper palatal plica short converging a little inwardly toward the principal plica not connected with the arcuate obhque rather strong lunella the lower end of which curves inward somewhat.
Length 15 diara.
3.5 mm.
Length 13.5 diam.
3.6 mm.
Length 13 diam.
3 mm.
Clausilium rather broad and short tapering to a mucronate apex heavily thickened on the columellar side at and near the apex nearly straight curved only near the filament where it is abruptly narrowed and deeply excavated or emarginate on the columellar side.
Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No 646.
In general form this species resembles G. brevior and C. axcajiensis.
It differs from the latter in the wider peristome in having the lunella free from the upper palatal plica and in the shape of the clausilium which in this species resembles that of TijrannophcBdiisa it being shorter and broader than in Hemiphcedusa and strongly thickened toward the apex along xhe columellar side.
Section ZAPTYX Pilsbry.
Vide these Proceedings for 1900 pp.
446 672.
Clausilia hyperoptyx Piisbrj.
This species was sent by Mr. Hirase as from  Loo Choo   that is I suppose.
Great Loo Choo Luchu Nawa or Okinawa Island.
A further lot No.
4576 has been sent from Yayeyama.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES XXII AND XXIII.
Plate XXII Figs.
13.
 Clausilia caUistochila.
Fig.
4.
 Clausilia caUistochila.
Clausilium showing form of the apex.
Figs.
5 6.
 C. osldmoi.
I Inferior lamella P lower end of the lower palatal plica  6' subcolumellar lamella  Sp. spiral lamella  5mj. superior lamella.
Figs.
710.
 C. pseudosJiimcB.
Fig.
11.
 C. pseitdohimm.
Clausilium turned to show form of the apex.
Fig.
12.
 C oshime. Clausilium interior face 13 profile from columellar side  14 inner face turned to show form of the apex.
Fig.
15.
 0. nesiothduma.
Clausilium interior face  16 the same turned to show form of the apex.
Fig.
17.
 C. tnima.
Clausilium turned to show form of the apex  13 interior face of the same.
Figs.
1921  C. nesiotfiauma.
Fig.
20 showing the spiral and inferior lamellre and on the left side part of the lunella and lower palatal plica with the dilated portion of the subcolumellar lamella.
Plate XXIII Figs.
2325.
 C. crenilaUum.
I inferior lamella  L lunella  P lower palatal plica  S subcolumellar lamella.
Fig.
26.
 G. crenilabium.
Clausilium seen in profile from the columellar side  27 apical view  28 interior face  29 the same turned to show shape of the apex.
Figs.
3032. C. BernarcUi.
Fig.
33.
 C. crenilahium.
Figs.
3436. C munus.
Figs.
3739.
 G. miina.
Figs.
4042.
 C. ptycliocJdla copied from Boettger.
Fig.
43.
 G. excellens type specimen of G. jivoeclara Gld. drawn by Dr. J. C. McConnell.
A STUDY OF AN ANT.
BY ADELE M. FIELDE.
The colonies of Stenamma Ajyhoinogaster fulvum Mayr subspecies aquira Buckley variety piceum Emery a jNIyrmicid ant found commonly in the neighborhood of Wood's Hole have varied in the numbers of their inmates from a few individuals to many thousands.
The nests are near the surface in mellow soil by roadsides in meadows and in woods and are usually neai' among or under loose stones.  Unless otherwise iudicated the ants under observation were kept in the portable nests described by the author in Vol.
2 No.
2 of the Biological Bulletin.
The species mentioned in this paper were identified for the writer by Prof. William Morton Wheeler of the University of Texas.
The colonies under inspection were kept at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Wood's Hole Mass. from July to the end of September 1900 and in New York City from then until the first of June 1901 when they were carried back to Wood's Hole.
The temperature of the room in which they were kept in New York varied from 40 to 90 J F. or 5 to So' C and this variation often occurred during single days.
The word day is used thronghout this narrative as representing a period of twentyfour hours' duration.
The use of Petri doubledishes in the study of living ants was suggested to the author by Prof. Wheeler.
Those referred to in this study were about 100 millimeters in diameter and 10 ram.
deep on the inside.
The cell formed by the double dish was set upon a disk of cardboard covered with white Turkish towelling to which a tiny patch of black silk was attached.
The Petri cell was set upon this disk which was wider than itself and the cell was covered with another disk of thick dark blotting paper.
Within the cell were two sections of very finemeshed sponge about 6 mm.
thick covering onethird the floor of the cell and so placed as to leave a passageway for the ants between the sponge and the cellwall and also a triangular space where the ants could settle between the sponges and above the black patch.
The sponges were kept saturated with water to give drink to the ants and moisture to the air and to prevent the hiding of the eggs in the interstices of the sponge.
Care was taken that the sponges should not overflow and inundate the young.
Particles of food from three to six kinds known to be acceptable to the ants were constantly provided and laid on that part of the floor farthest from the sponges.
The air the water and the food were kept always fresh and clean.
The sponges were dipped in alcohol and well rinsed once a week.
The cells were set upon the shelves of a dark wellaired cupboard with the foodside of the cell toward the source of light.
Not more than seven ants were permanently housed in a single cell.
Among the ants kept several months in this manner there were scarcely any deaths from natural causes.
The workers ai'e brown in their general color and are from four to seven millimeters in length and although they arcr apparently alike in all except size they are here referred to as majors minors and minims the majors being from six to seven millimeters long.
the minors from five to six and the minims from four to five.
When the colony moves the majors do the main part of the work of transporting the inert young and they often seize lift and carry to the new abode such ants as adhere too persistently to the old habitation.
The minors appear to do a large part of the scouting and purveying.
The minims are greatly devoted to the care of the eggs larvpe and pupre.
All assiduously serve the queen and all engage in battles with enemies.
The queens are from seven to eight millimeters in length without their wings and are redder than the workers.
The kings are from six to seven millimeters long with the wings projecting another millimeter beyond the end of the body and are jet black in color.
The Avorkers are efficient fighters and at close quarters will kill Formica fusca double their bulk.
They evince extreme hostility not only to ants of other species but to those of other or alien colonies of their own species and variety.
In this paper the term alien is used to denote a different colony of the same species and variety.
Queens of different colonies when placed together in a nest or a Petri cell ostracize each other remaining as far apart as possible.
f forced into close quarters they interlock mandibles and push and pull one another until one dies.
An alien queen introduced into and unable to flee from a queenless colony is attacked by its workers and though she may make a brave fight is eventually killed.
When a queen is alone she will sometimes fight in defense and after a day or two of quiet residence in this abode they showed little disposition to leave it but carried on their normal occupations with an appearance of contentment.
In deaninff the cell the cover was gently removed in a dim light the left hand was placed snngly over the part of the cell occupied ly the ant family and the ants stayed in the agreeable warmth and daikness thus provided for them while the nnficcuied part of the cell was cleaned.
By externally covering any portion of the cell floor with the black patch antl setting the cell in a dim light the ants were made to move to the selected site without serious disturbance or h ss of eggs.
For prolonged observation of the ants I ned a weak light natural or artificial hand lenses and a background under the glass lloor of whatever color best showed the object.
of her egg larvre aud pupe but if there be workers belonging to her she retires to a place of safety and remains there until the fracas subsides and the workers seek her out.
Workers from different colonies shut into the same nest will fight until but one party remains.
I put into a Janet nest which one colony had occupied for a week another colony that had for two weeks been in a Lubbock nest.
The following day the Lubbock colony was congregated with a mass of its young in three stages in the foodroom the Janet colony was likewise congregated with its young in the adjoining nursery and a battle was raging between groups of two of three of four and of five the attacks being always upon single ants.
A day later eighty ants had been slain and the warfare continued.
On the fifth day the young of both colonies had all been brought together into the nursery and the victorious remnant of the Janet colony was alone Avith its spoils.
When a single alien Sfenamma falvum piceujn is introduced into a colony it at once exhibits signs of terror endeavors to flee or to hide and keeps apart from the habitants but sooner or later an inmate comes upon it and though it may slay its opponent in a duel or two it is sure to be destroyed as no Stenamma fulvum piceum code of honor intervenes against an attack of many upon one.
Longcontinued isolation does not abate the hostility of Stenamma fulvum piceitm to an alien.
I have tried many experiments with queens that had lived solitary for several months introducing to their respective domiciles alien workers of all ages from loag mature adults to callows just beginning to walk and I have but rarely succeeded in efTecting a reconciliation between the two.
The hostility of the worker to the queen was usually as marked as was that of the queen to the worker.
The few cases in which affiliation Avas induced were all between the queen and very youngcallows whose impudence appears sometimes to be condoned by their elders.
An instance of this toleration was given by a queen and one major worker that had been isolated in a Petri cell for more than three months.
After killing several older callows introduced one by one they had permitted an alien minim introduced when but a few hours old to remain with them.
Five dayslater I introduced two sisters of their adopted young worker the newcomers being minims about twenty days old.
These newcomer at once attacked the queeu and the major.
The major acted solely on the defensive.
Curling her abdomen in and sitting on the small of her back with her tough thorax presented to her small enemy she permitted much nabbing of her body and much pulling of her limbs making no retaliation.
The queen on her part caught her little adversary by its antenna and held it firmly and quietly for some minutes then released it and stood head to head with it without nipping it.
The whole conduct of the adults was like that often seen in big dogs that are playing with obstreperous puppies.
It appeared as if the adults liked their adopted callow aud were unwilling to harm its sisters.
The three callows perfectly affiliated from the start but the newcomers often renewed their attacks on the queen and the major and after some hours were killed by the adults.
The adopted callow continued to live in that cell.
The kings of different colonies are indifierent or friendly to one another and they have no steady foes either in their own or other households of their kind.
They are the only active representatives of their colony that are ever cordially received in any other colony and strong inducements are apparently offered for their permanent residence among the aliens.
I have seen two workers one on either side of an alien king holding to his wings and gently conducting him through the grass to the entrance of their domicile and I have repeatedly seen the workers capture lift and carry alien kings home with them.
If about swarming time an alien king is dropped into one of my glass nests the workers seize him by his wings and forcibly detain him among them.
If he later wanders away they follow lift and bring him back.
The kings are much petted by the workers their bodies are licked clean their wings are straightened and smoothed and their heads are patted with the antennae.
If the colony is forced to change its place of residence the kings are picked up by the small of the back and carried to the new abode.
Young winged queens manifest great friendliness toward alien king.s.
Probably crossfertilization is common if not universal.
Stenamma fulvum piceum of the same colony queens kings and workers generally live amicably together.
The queen is followed tended licked and patted and is the evident centre of attraction in the crroun.
Colonies captured and confined in my nests just before swarming time within a few days divided into as many groups as there were queens the queens disposing themselves as far apart as the limits of the nest permitted.
When a queen was then xeraoved by me the workers at once carried the young and settled down by another queen.
A wingless queen after wandering for some days alone in a Lubbock nest cleared an irregularly oval space about three centimeters long and two centimeters wide building a smooth solid wall with the particles of earth that she removed from her floor.
The wall was compact and vertical and for more than half the circumference of the structure extended a distance of five millimeters from the floor to the glass roof.
She worked industriously for several days on this structure and then laid an egg which she lifted and carried between her mandibles whenever light was admitted to her dwelling.
The day after the laying of the first egg a visitor lifted the glass roof of the nest and spoiled her work.
I then marked her using a fine camel' shair brush and dotting the top of her abdomen with a fleck of quickly drying varnish into which water colors had been rubbed and I then returned her to her own colony from which she had been absent three weeks.
The first worker that she there met stood head to head with her for some minutes while the two tapped each other with antennte and the vorker regurgitated food to the queen.
Other ants greeted her with the same ordinary signs of satisfaction.
Xine queens taken on their emergence from the nest at swarming in September and placed in Petri cells each vith an alien king retained their wings from two to three months and only one of them laid eggs before shedding her wings.
One of my queens shed her wings the day she was captured and another retained hers nearly four months.
One laid her first egg twentyseven days after swarming in September and one laid no eggs until January one hundred and six days after swarming.
None of the score of queens that I have isolated at their swarming with alien kings has failed sooner or later to lay eggs.
The eggs are deposited one at a time without regularity in the intervals.
Only once have I known so many as six to be deposited in a single day one or two a day being the ordinary number.
If the queen is agitated or troubled she ceases from egglaying somelimes for many days together.
Some of the queens in my Petri cells have averaged more than one egg a day during every month from September to the following July and they and their workers appear to be in good health though they have had during the winter no respite from the labor of rearing the young.
The eggs laid by the queens are visible to the unassisted eye are a pearly translucent white and are oblong in shape the thickness being about half the length which is half a millimeter.
When the queen is about to deposit an egg workers stand about her as if aware of a new duty aud they pick up the egg as soon as it is deposited aud add it to the packet which is constantly tended kept clean watched over and carried about by the workers.
The egg packet after being carried about for some time by one worker is passed over to another who appears to assume the burden eagerly.
If the queen is alone she takes care of her own eggs.
In order to ascertain the time of incubation I placed queens each in a clean Petri cell some with workers some without workers and cleaned each cell daily until the first egg was deposited in it.
I examined the cell two or three times a day and recorded the time of deposit of the first egg and of a few succeeding ones.
In some cases I removed the queen after a few eggs had been deposited leaving the eggs to the care of the workers alone.
I counted the eggs daily to see that there was no diminution in their number aud I cast out from my calculations all cases in which there was a diminution of the number of eggs during the time of my observations.
I was also careful that there should be no manipulation nor disturbance of the eggs except by the ants themselves.
The eggs recorded were laid between the 7th of October and the 8th of the following May aud were laid by ten different queens.
Twentytwo simultaneous or successive broods were thus observed with the result that in two cases the first larva appeared on the eighteenth day after the laying of the first egg in nine cases on the nineteenth day in ten cases on the twentieth day in one case on the twentyfirst day.
The time of incubation was not influenced solely by temperature for eggs laid by different queens on the same day did not invariably hatch on the same day.
In six of the twenty two broods two eggs were deposited by the same queen on the first day and these six broods each produced its first two larvre within the same day.
Furthermore the appearance of larvie succeediug the first iu each brood correspouded closeiy with the times of the deposit of eggs succeeding the first laid.
Various broods removed to weak alcohol or hot water aud examined under a len8 showed the larva well formed iu the egg at about the seventeenth day and no earlier.
Broods iu which the first larva ajjpeared on the nineteenth day were immersed iu alcohol and examined under a lens and they always showed earlier but never later stages of larval existence  while broods in which no larva had appeared on the twentieth day showed when examined in like manner a larva perfectly formed within the egg membrane.
I therefore conclude that the period of incubation varies between seventeen and tweutytwo days with nineteen days as the common period.
The variation in the eriod of incubation bears no fixed relation to the size of the future adult.
Eggs of different periods of incubation followed to the adult form were found to produce the same sort of worker.
My ants have furnished no evidence that they ever devour the eggs larvie or pupje of their own colony.
One worker isolated in a Petri cell twentyone days without food died leaving five eggs intact during the last sixteen days of her starvation.
In all the score of Petri cells in which I have for months watched the condition aud counted the numbers of the eggs no diminution of them could be logically charged to the mature ants whose skill and diligence in keeping them clean safe dry and iu humid darkness merits high renown.
The feeding of the larva which is bent nearly double in the egg with regurgitated food begins as soon as it straightens itself and protrudes its mouth.
When the larvre begin to appear in the eggpacKet the workers lift the packet and hold it free aud still while one of their number holds a translucent white globule of regurgitated food to the larval mouth projecting from the surface of the eggpacket.
I have repeatedly seeu the workers thus feeding the very young larva a single globule of regurgitated food serving for a meal of which four or five larvie successively partook.
When the larva first emerges its leugth is nearly double that of the egg.
When well fed its growth is rapid and iu a day or two its length is three or four times that of the egg.
When about two millimeters loug it is usually removed from Ihe eggpacket and laid on the floor or associated with others of its size iu a separate bundle the individuals being fastened together by the hooks on their .surfaces as the eggs were by their sticky shells.
The habit which is observable in Stenamnia fulvuin iceum in common with some other species of ants of assorting the young in accordance with the size and form doubtless economizes labor and also tends to the preservation of the young.
The flexible neck of the larva enables it to reach to a distance equal to a quarter of its bodylength and to fix its mouth upon anything edille that is witfiin its reach.
I have observed a gradual diminution of the eggs in every cell where the smallness of the working force prevented that segregation of the larvre and that assortment according to size which prevails in large communities and I have also in such circumstances seen fullgrown larvae and even pupaj fall victims to the voracity of the unfed younger larva3.
The older larvre are often fed when lying upon their backs the ventral side serving as a place of deposit for food reached by the curving of the neck as described for Ponera coarctata by Prof. Wheeler in the Biological Bulletin Vol.
2 No.
2.
But this feeding posture is with Stenamma fulvum picenm scarcely more common than are others.
Sometimes one larva is used as a table not only for its own feeding but for the feeding of two or three other larvie that are inclined against its sides to take their portion of the same morsel.
I have also seen five larvre set on end around half the abdomen of a bisected housefly feeding voraciously from its interior like pigs around a trough.
Sometimes the larva is laid with its ventral side against a succulent portion of the insect and is left there to take its fill sometimes it has a portion of meat held to its mouth and forcibly removed as soon as it has had a brief repast and sometimes a worker stands with her head over that of the larva and allows it to take food from her crop in a manner resembling that in which a motherpigeon feeds her young.
In my nests the very young larve have been fed solely upon regurgitated food.
The older larvre have been given particles of flies mealworms roaches beetles spiders spongecake white bread moistened with sweetened water and of dried yolk of hens' eggs.
They have also fed upon fragments of ants of other species on pupaj of alien colonies and on the pupe and larvic of Cremastogaster lineolata and of Lasiiis tunbratiis.
Larvic deprived wholly of insect food did not during a period of one hundred days produce one pupa.
But larvae grew from the egg to nearly full size without insecl food and one pupa that later on became a minim had no insect food during the last twentytwo days of its larval stage.
The adult ants appear able to live on indefinitely without insect food  but there is a noticeable diminution in the number of eggs laid by the queen and in the number of the larvre simultaneously fed by the workers.
I have seen no instance of the eating of members of their own colony by these ants nor of their feeding their larvji upon dismembered kin.
But they will eat and feed to their larvte the flesh of dismembered alien callows and probably thickness of integument is all that protects alien adults from being commonly used as food.
The responsibility taken by the workers in the care of the young may have brought about an incapacity on the part of some of the queens to regurgitate food and may have disabled them for solitary rearing of the larvre.
Two sister queens that were taken at swarming on September 17 lived each with a king of another colony until the death of both kings when I placed them on November 13 together without workers in a Petri cell where they lived until the following June.
The first egg was laid on December 8 and the first larva appeared on December 28 when there were fifteen eggs cared for by both queens.
The queens continued to lay eggs and young larvte frequently appeared among the eggs but no larva lived longer than two or three days.
Up to April 28 four months after the appearance of the first larva no larva had been reared in this cell although more than one brood had meantime been successfully reared in all similar cells where the queens were assisted by workers.
I then thoroughly cleaned the cell and replaced the two queens.
That same evening two eggs wei'e deposited and when on May 7 the eggs had been increased to eleven I put in two fullgrown alien larvie and later on a white pupa all of which were accepted by the queens.
On May 24 the pupa became a minor ant and at once began to assist the queens in the care of the eggs.
On May 25 two new larvc were to be seen among the eggs and these larvte continued to grow and live.
The two introduced larva
also thrived and on June 10 the two queens and three callows were together engaged in tending a promising group of larvte the first that were reared from eggs in this cell.
28 Three solitary widowed queens of the five iu my Petri ctills during four or more months after beginning to lay egg failed to rear any larvte although other queens to the number of seven at the same time and iu exactly similar conditions with the exception of having workerassistants all reared oue or more broods.
The fourth solitarj queen brought up a single male I myself having given her much help in the feeding of one larva the sole survivor among many that appeared and perished during four months.
The fifth solitary queen had the assistance of workers in rearing her first larvse and later on when the workers were removed she indisputably fed and reared larvae all the way from the egg upward.
The length of the larval period has iu my uests of Stenamma fiilvum piceiun as is generally thought to be the case with other ants been apparently dependent on the amouut and quahty of the foodsupply.
Between October 27 and May 9 I recorded the beginning and end of the larval stage of twentysix larvre from queens' eggs.
There was one of twenty days one of twentyone one of twentytwo three of twenty four one of twentyfive one of twentysix oue of twentyseven four of tweutyeight oue of twentynine three of thirty one of thirtyone two of fortytwo one of fiftythree one of eightyfour three of uinetythree and one of ninetyseven days' duration.
11 the larval periods shorter than fortythree days were in domiciles where the queen was present and all over fortythree days were in cells where the larvse were reared by workers alone.
The assiduity of the worker is even obviously greater when the queen is present.
The shortest period recorded was that of the larva iu whose feeding I myself assisted ttie queen.
The length of the larval period does not determine the sex nor the size of the ant.
In the cases above recorded one larva having a period of twenty one of thirty and one of ninetythree days all ultimately became males.
Oue larva with a period of twentyfour one of ninetythree and oue of ninetyseven days all ultimately became miuims.
The only queen hatched iu my uests had a larval period of fiftythree days.
A queens' egglarva now under the care of three workers in one of my Petri cells has been in the larval stage a hundred and forty days.
From four to eight days previous to emergence from the larval stage the larva expels the contents of the alimentary canal ceases to feed and changes in color from translucent white with a brown core to creamy and more opaque white.
Deprivation of food for some days will cause any halfgrown larva to make these prepaiations for becoming a pupa and minims can be reared at will.
The larva are kept resplendently clean by the licking given by the workers.
In my nests the workers appeared lo learn a use for the sponge and when I at various times soiled a larva with stale insect juices they rubbed it upon the sponge to clean away what they apparently disliked to lick off'.
Either majors minors or minims alone can feed larva but in ray Petri cells where food is always near they have rarely reared more than three larvae to each adult worker.
A minim alone with a queen reared three larvse simultaneously and five majors together reared sixteen.
The anxiety which impels the nurses to lift the immature young whenever the cell is uncovered probably hinders their rearing large numbers in these abodes.
When disturbed the workers first lift the oldest in the nest the pupte the larvje or the eggpacket.
This order is also followed by the solitary queens.
After the larvae are large enough to be removed from among the eggs of a packet and to lie separately on the floor they are so fed as to bring them to about the same size.
As the eggs are laid rather regularly one or two a day and are nearly equal in their periods of incubation the larvte if evenly fed would reach the pupa stage one by one.
But great naturaL possibilities of shortening or prolonging the larval period by increase or diminution of the supplied nutriment and the method of feeding the larva
so unequally as to keep them nearly equal in size causes the normal nest to be at times without pupa and at times to be destitute of advanced larvte.
I have observed in natural nests and also in my artificial nests that at times there are a great number of larva
and no pupse and at times countless pupa
with no advanced larvie.
The larva
grow to the length of the pupa
perfected within their integument varying from two to five millimeters.
When the thin transparentwhite integument bursts the ants clean the snowwhite naked pupa and constantly watch over and tend it.
Its first color appears in the eyespots which are grayish on the third day and brown on the fifth.
On the tenth day with the utmost regularity.
there is a deposit of pigment on the dorsal side of the largest segments of the abdomen and tliis color spreads and deepens until on the twelfth day the sex of the future ant can thereby be foretold the workerpupa being yellowish all over the malepupa graybodied with white limbs the queenpupa mottled brown and orange with yellowish limbs.
Two days later the workerpupa acquires the rich dark amber color which it retains as a callow  the slate color of the malepupa deepens to black and the queenpupa has the tints of an adult queen.
The length of the pupastage was ascertained by me for seventythree pupa all presumably the issue of queens' eggs in fifteen different habitations between January 5 and May 27.
I took the time from emergence from the larval sheath to the assumption of the standing posture as the period of pupaexistence.
Fortyfour of my number proved to be minims and of these two became such on the fourteenth day twentythree on the fifteenth day and nineteen on the sixteenth day.
Fourteen became minors and of these eleven became such on the seventeenth day and three on the eighteenth day.
Ten became majors and of these five became such on the nineteenth day four on the twentieth day and one on the twentyfirst day.
The pupastage of the sixtyeight workers varied therefore between thirteen and twentytwo full days but the minims may be said to have a pupaperiod of about fifteen days the minors a pupaperiod of about seventeen days and the majors a pupaperiod of about nineteen days.
Four of the seventythree pupte became kings and of these one became such on the eighteenth day two on the nineteenth day and one on the twentieth day.
One only became a queen.
She was a pupa nearly seventeen days and died soon after beginning to walk about among the three workers that reared her from a queen's egg.
Of some hundreds of larvte that have successfully been reared to the pupastage by my captive ants not more than ten have failed to safely pass the pupastage and to live on as ants.
The small proportion of deaths among the antchildren in so unnattiral an environmeut as is created by a glass nest and a human purveyor surely indicates a more than human skill on the part of the adults iu their care of the offspring or else wonderful tenacity of life on the part of the young ants.
The workers care for the pupfc with the same assiduity that distinguishes their attention to the eggs and the larvte but this attention does not appear to be necessary to the survival of the pupa.
I isolated ten pupaj in a Petri cell having the same warmth moisture and general environment as had those pupre remaining under the care of the workers and although half of them were taken from their nurses before any color had been deposited in their integuments every one of them came safely to the adultstage.
When as callows they were one by one returned to their adult kin they received such an extraordinary amount of licking as to suggest the wellknown theory that the pupre exude a substance which is liked by the ants and that the attention of the latter to the pupre is not wholly altruistic.
These ants are very cleanly.
In every nest where I have long kept them they have chosen a fixed place for the throwing of refuse as remote as possible from the inert young.
They carry morsels of food and lay them on the sponges as if with intent to moisten edibles that are too dry for their eating.
They follow their usual occupations both by day and by night.
Individual ants rest sometimes for hours standing motionless and apparently asleep.
I have seen a worker spend more than an hour upon her toilet combing or licking ever' part of her body as tar as she could reach.
Much willing service is renderd by the adults to each other in the cleaning of their integuments.
I saw one worker hold another by a foot apparently insisting upon such service which was rendered at intervals and was renewed only when a limb was again nipped during forty minutes.
On the final release of the operator the two ants turned mouth to mouth and one regurgitated food to the other.
The muscular endurance of these ants seems to be great.
They will fight with no cessation during several hours holding an enemy by a limb or mandible.
When the fight is a duel the stronger ant or the ant that first succeeds in nipping a leg or an antenna thereby drags its opponent over objects itself keeping the higher ground until the limb is severed.
In the Lubbock nests the stronger fighter always threw the weaker into the moat either before or after the death of the unfortunate.
AVhen a battleground presents a precipice the attempt to push the enemy over it is always noticeable.
The successful use of the sting does not appear to be fatal to an antenemy although it gives pain in the human hand for an hour or more.
Notwithstanding the general harmony and mutual helpfulness in a colony of Stenamma fulviun 2i'eum the ants have their individual quarrels.
Three queens had lived by themselves serenely in a Petri cell for five months giving common care for four months to their single group of eggs when two of the queensbegan a tug of war standing head to head one holding the other by a mandible and dragging or pushing her over and around the sponges.
Uncovering the cell watering the sponges introducing an alien worker caused no cessation of the fray.
The third queen distinguished from the other two by a fragment of wing on one side made frequent excursions to inspect the two belligerents and then returned quickly to continue her care of the eggs.
The battle persisted with biief intervals for four days and then one of the two combatants was left on the side of the cell opposite the eggs and there she remained in isolation for the ensuing ten days.
I several times lifted her and placed her close to the other two queens and the eggs but every time her wingless enemy seized her by the small of her back carried her across the cell and cast her down in the place for refuse or else attacked and drove her back lo her place of banishment.
On the eleventh day the banished queen was permitted to return to her two sister queens and the eggs but she died on the following afternoon.
One who watches the proceedings of these ants through many months finds numerous occasions when the sequence of events strongly suggests a designed punishment of individual offenders in the colony.
Twice I have seen an assembly of older ants its members ranged at nearly equal distances forming a circle with all heads toward the centre remaining motionless except in vibrations of the antennae or a curious shaking of the abdomen certainl for some hours and jirobably for some days.
These assemblages were each succeeded by an execution.
In the one case an ant was torn asunder and cast in the kitchenmidden.
In the other case one ant was dismembered and another ant picked up the head and thorax of the dismembered victim and carried it about in the foodroom.
She was carrying it at all the many times when I looked at.
her during the succeedipg three days.
Of course the sequences noted may have been merely double coincidences in two unusual proceedings of the ants.
Both majors and minors among the Stenamma fulvum jiicum sometimes lay eggs especially Avhen no queen is present in their habitation.
The number of eggs laid is sometimes considerable.
I have seen as many as three hundred at once in a nest of fifty workers from which a queen had been for several months absent.
One of my Petri cells in which the eggs of five isolated workers came to the larval stage indicated that the time of incubation of these eggs may be the same as for queens' eggs eighteen or nineteen days.
The first egg was laid on February 21 the second on February 23 and the eggs were gradually increased to ten.
The first larva appeared on the 12th and the second on the 14th of March.
The larval period of workers' egglarvte under the care of workers alone appears to be much longer than for the queens' egglarvre under the care of queens alone or under the care of queens and workers or under the care of workers alone.
Judging from data recorded from five groups of isolated workers that have been rearing their own progenv in ray nests during ten months I think these Jarvte sometimes take more thon two hundred days in their growth from egg to pupa.
The workers' eggs are about half as large as are the queens' eggs the larvre on issuing from the eggs are but half as large as those issuing from queens' eggs the pupte are also much smaller than are those of males produced from queens' eggs and the adult males are dwarfs being from four to five millimeters in length of body without the wings.
A colony captured by me on July 13 1900 lost its only queen on August 25.
It was transferred from a Janet to a new clean Fielde nest on September 6 and after that date had no communication with any other nest.
Between the 17th of the following February and the 7th of June 1901 twelve dwarf males were successively produced.
No ants of any other sort were during four months produced in this queenless colony.
All twelve of these dwarf males with the utmost regularity showed eyespots and ocelli of pale gray on the third day of pupal existence and the color deepened to black on the fifth day.
On the tenth day the dorsal side of the abdomen became grayish and on the twelfth day the head thorax and abdomen were slate color while the limbs remained white.
Thereafter the color deepened to black and in each of the twelve cases the pupa became an ant on the seventeenth day.
Four of these dwarf males that remained during their natural lives with their workerprogenitors lived respectively fifteen thirtytwo thirtyfour and fortyfive days.
The food which the Stenamina fulvum jiceum were seen to eat in captivity was in the order of their apparent preference fragments of flies roaches mealworms beetles and spiders  morsels of spongecake white bread moistened with sweetened water or white syrup apple banana boiled sweetpotato  fat of boiled fresh beef soft gumdrop almond paste pie crust hickoiy nut and honey.
They showed no lively interest in other than insect food of which they had been for some days deprived.
They appeared to avoid all raw or cooked meats other than particles of fat.
Their liking for a varied diet and their attention to unusual delicacies indicate a highly developed sense of taste.
Though the attitude ordinarily assumed in eating is that of standing on all six legs and lapping the food I have twice seen an ant stand on four legs using the front feet to hold an insectegg to its mouth suggesting the posture in which a squirrel commonly eats nuts.
The amount of food required to sustain life must be small.
I isolated sixteen workers in groups in clean Petri cells containing nothing but sponges that were frequently cleaned with ninetyfive per cent alcohol and then saturated with water.
Of these ants one lived five days five lived six days two lived seven days one lived eight days three lived nine days one lived twelve days one sixteen days one twentyone days and one thirtyfour days without visible food.
That these ants died from starvation and not from other cause was indicated by the conti'ol experiments in which other ants similarly placed but with a supply of food continued to live on for months.
The ability of Stenamma fulvum to endure starvation is however exceeded by the less active Formica fusca and the sluggish Ponera coardata one of the former haviag lived in my Petri cell fortyone days and one of the latter fortythree days without visible food.
Formica sanguinea shows lesser tenacity of life as uoue of several subject to the same experimeut lived more than six days.
The Stenamma fulvum jylceum also meet extreme cold with impunity.
At about 50 F.  or 10 C.  they become sluggish remaiuiug almost or quite motionless in their usual attitudes.
I froze a twoqueen colony fur twentyfour hours the thermometer going down to 23 F.  or 5 C. On gradually thawing the ants all survived including callows but two days old and the fi'ozen pupa' larvte and eggs developed perfectly later on.
Another small colony was frozen continuously for five days the thermometer going down to 15 F. or 10 C. The queen and all ihe workers survived thawing but a fifth of the workers died soon after and the queen who had previously laid eggs almost daily for five months laid no egg thereafter for eighteen days.
It is probable that these ants being highly thermotactic seek the deeper warmer recesses of their nests in the ground in autumn and there hibernate until the warmth of spring draws them toward the surface.
The color of these ants manifestly deepens with age.
The newly hatched callows are translucent amber.
The brown tint of the adult first begins lo appear on the dorsal side of the largest segments of the abdomen.
Some of the majors have already this beginning of brown coloration before they pass the pupa stage.
The head which is throughout life darker than the thorax takes on color next after the abdomen.
In three or four mouths the young worker has the color of an adult but very old ants queens as well as workers attain deeper shades of brown with passing years.
The males are fully colored a glossy jet black even before leaving the puja stage.
I have not yet the data from which to draw conclusions concerning the longevity of queens and workers though I have those in my nests that are certainly over one year old.
The shorterlived males have furnished me the following record relating to their longevity  Longevity Table for 20 males iresumahly the issue of queens eggs.
.
Swarmed September 17 from roadside colony isolated with queen of another colouy in a Petri cell lived 5 daj's.
h. Swarmed September 17 from roadside colony isolated with queen of another colony in a Petri cell lived 7 days.
c. Swarmed Sptembsr 17 from roadside colony isolated with queen of another colony in a Petri cell.
lived 13  d. Swarmed September 17 from roadside colony isolated with queen of another colony in a Petri cell lived 20  e. Swarmed September 17 from roadside colonv isolated with queen of another colony in a Peti'i cell lived ' 20  .
Swarmed September 17 from roadside colony isolated with queen of another colony in a Petri cell lived 102  J.
Captured September 11 from nest in woods isolated with queen of another colony lived .
.
.
18  h. Captured September 11 from nest in woods isolated with ueen of another colony lived.
.
.
19  i.
Captured September 11 from nest in woods isolated with queen of another colony lived .... 19  j.
Captured September 11 from nest in woods isolated with queen of another colony lived .... 40  k. Hatched in Fielde anthuuse November 22 lived with his sisterworkers no queen lived ... 14  .
Hatched in Fielde anthouse November 22 remained there with queenmother and workers lived .
.
24  m. Hatched in Fielde anthouse November 22 domiciled with sisterworkers no queen lived .
.
40  n. Hatched in Fielde anthouse November 27 domiciled with sisterworkers lived 42  0.
Hatched iu Fielde anthouse November 27 remained there with motherqueen and workers lived 72  p. Hatched in Fielde anthouse December 1 domiciled with sisterworkers no queen lived ... 87  q. Hatched in Fielde anthouse December 1 remained there with motherqueen and workers lived .
100  The king that lived longest having been taken at the swarming must have lived considerably more than 102 days and his residence with a queeu did not manifestly shorten his days.
The history of this little pair illustrates interesting traits of these ants.
The two were taken from different colonies on a sunny morning after heavy rain September 17 1900.
They were immediately placed ly themselves in a Petri cell and were at once frieuclly.
The courtship or honeymoon was distinguished by mutual devotion.
The one was rarely beyond the touch of the other and the satisfaction of the two in tlieir companionship Avas apparently equal.
If the queen moved the king usually followed.
If the king failed in constancy of attention to her the queen approached and by a side stroke of her antenna made him aware of herself.
This queen was exceptional in retaining all her wings until after she deposited her first two eggs on the 15th of November two months after swarming.
She had laid twentyeight eggs before she lost the wings of one side on December 7 and she laid many more before her last wing fell off in January.
From the time of first egg laying the king and queen both watched over the eggs one of them remaining on guard when the other went to the opposite side of the cell to eat.
The king watched over the eggs in the absence of the queen but he never lifted them nor carried them about as did the queen.
On the death of the king December 28 after more than a hundred days of wedlock as he lay prone on his back with outspread wings the queen piled her twenty eggs upon him and hung over the body persistently.
On ensuing days I separated the body the queen and the eggs first by a distance of a halfinch then of an inch then of two inches then of three inches and in a few hours after each separation the queen had brought the body and the eggs again together and stood with her head lowered over them her mouth usually near the king's mouth.
On the fifth day after his death I moved his body to the opposite side of the cell and separated it from the eggs by an inti'icate route between the sponges.
The distracted queen at once set out iu search of her treasures and in her efforts during the next two days to bring the body and the eggs together she so scattered the eggs that fearing the loss of them I took out the shriveled body collected the eggs and left the queen alone with them in a cleaned cell.
Two males one the issue of a workers' egg the other of a queens' egg were later on introduced separately into her cell aud were killed and dismembered by her.
The queen continued to lay eggs and the eggs at frequent intervals produced larva but this queen was evidently unable to feed her young larvce and I had no workers of her own colony to offer her.
Up to the end of May 1901 she continued to lay eggs and the young larvaj continued to perish.
Meantime two of her eggs given on January 31 to the care of three alien workers living in a cell by themselves had producea one queen and one king.
After four months of failure had sufficiently shown the inability of this queen to alone rear her larvse I attempted to reconcile her to alien helpers putting in at different times from other colonies five young workers of ages varying from a few days to a few hours and all were killed by her or were removed on account of endangering her life.
One callow minor after having been nine days in the cell with the queen nipped her so viciously and tenaciously that I could release her only by decapitating her enemy.
The mutual fear and hostility of the queen and the alien workers with the common desire to possess and care for the eggs always resulted in the scattering and eventual loss of the eggs.
However two other alien workers one minor and one minim introduced into the cell when but a few hours old after several days' residence with the queen and numerous timid tentative approaches perfectly affiliated with her.
She laid no eggs thereafter until the ninth day in an eggless cell and then she continued to lay an egg or two daily to be picked up and taken care of by her adopted callows.
Two white pupa3 were also introduced into the eggless cell and there became ants and in June the long solitary and childless queen had four devoted workers caring for her own young larvpe.
Ants have great aptitude in the recognition of their kin of the same colony.
A colony found in the woods just previous to its swarming on September 7 1900 was divided and placed in two nests Ce and Cd each with one queen.
After eight months of separation ants brought together from the two nests jerfectly and immediately affiliated.
Sisterqueens of this colony kept apart in Petri cells with a few workers to June 17 1901 were after nine months' separation from their colony received back with distrust.
They were nabbed and held by the workers but they were themselves quiescent.
The attacks of the workers were hesitating and tentative and after they had passed their autennte over the whole body of the visiting queen they left her alone.
After a few hours in the nest she was beside her former associate and the svorkers w'ere gathered around the two ill the manuer usual witli colonies that have two esteemed jueetis.
That the recognition of the ants is not personal is proven by the following fact Workers hatched in nest Cc during the first half of ISToveraber 1900 were isolated in nest Aa while workers hatched in nest Cd during the same period of time were isolated in nest Ab.
The two sections Ce and Cd had each its own queen workers and young and there was no communication between the two nests after the division of the original colony on September 7.
Between nests Aa and Ah there was no communication and these two nests contained workers only.
The workers of nest Aa had never during their active lives met those in Ab nest until six mouths after they all became ants when I put them together in a Petri cell.
There was at first an exhibition of mutual distrust and even of animosity which gradually disappeared when the antennae had been passed over the bodies of the strangers and in a halfhour all were amicably congregated in a single group.
These ants have a habit of bringing their bodies to a low level stretching their legs wide asunder and creeping slowly up to an object of suspicion in a manner that is quite catlike in its stealthiuess and this mode of appnmching was often used toward the straugei's after the antennte had once touched.
I also transferred pupie fnmi Cd nest to the care of queens of other colonies and left them there in the care of aliens until they became ants and reached the age of about sixteen days.
On returning these callows to the Cd nest which they had left as pupa3 they exhibited great fear of their relatives and hosts sought to stay in parts of the nest most remote from the resident community hid themselves and showed all the trepidation usual in ants that are put into a nest of aliens.
On the other hand the resident ants made no unfriendly demonstrations toward the newconiers and aftr these callows were forced iuio association with them by confinement with a few of the adults in a small space the callows lost their fears and thereafter mingled freely and happily with all in the nest.
In less than a day they were incorporated in the community where they accomplished their larval career.
Callows of the same stock Cd of the same age and the same 446 mocKEDixos of the academy of July rearing as the above were introduced the same day into an absolutely alien community Bb were instantly attacked and were dismembered and then fed to the larvjc or eaten y the ants.
Four adult workers two majors and two minors that I took in August 1900 from an applecore by the roadside and isolated in a Petri cell on December 4 killed two alien callows that had just come from the pupastage in Cd nest.
The next day they received three amber pupc from Cd nest and one of these pup
that same day became an ant and of it the adult ants appeared to be very fond.
On the 6th and 8th of December they killed two of its sisters introduced when but a few hours old into their cell.
On December 9 when the callow hatched in this cell was four days old I put in an ant only seven hours old also from the Cd nest.
The fourdayold callow was the first to meet the baby ant in the Petri cell.
It licked its junior from end to end and Avhen the adults repeatedly approached and snapped with their mandibles at the latest comer the older callow stood over and appeared to wittingly protect the younger.
It then picked up the baby ant which was a minim quite as large as itself and carried it into the shade of the sponge where two pupre were attended by the adult ants.
There it stood between the adults and the baby giving attention alternately to it and to the pupje and often touching the adults with its antennre until after many minutes the adults left all to its care.
From that time the adults showed no further hostility toward the younger minim and it continued to live in that cell.
While it is generally true thai Stenamma fulvuni pieeum will capture and care for the eggs larvre and pupre of alien colonies they do not invariably rear these to adult life.
A queen alone will not usually accept any worker from an alien colony but persistent effort may induce her to accept a very young worker.
A queen alone with her eggs will not usually accept alien pupa.
She carries them away and casts them in her rubbish heap.
But if alien larvic are introduced she will accept them and then she will later on accept upro from the same stock.
She will at any time accept alien eggs.
Queens assisted by numerous workers will receive alien eggs larvic or pupaj separately or together the workers assuming immediate charge of them.
I have seen queeulcss workers break up and feed alieu jupie to the larvie they were roaring but wlieu they had no larvathey took excellent care of pupa from the same alien stock.
As one pupa will furnish an ample meal to a great number of larvie there may be much economy in thus utilizing an alien pupa that appears unseasonably in their nursery.
An exjlanatiou of the somewhat erratic behavior f the ants toward alien young will be suggested in a subsequent paragraph.
In many of the experiments made to test the power of these ants in recognizing those of their own colony I used a small number of ants in each cell and without marking the ants I could by choosing those of one shade from one colony and those of another shade from another colony always identify the colony to which any ant used in the experiment had originally belonged and could invariably return her to her own.
The power of Stenamma fidvum piceum to recognize another of her own colony is not destroyed by freezing and thawing either one or both of the individuals.
Neither is it destroyed by merging one or both for an instant in alcohol in diluted oil of aniseseed or of bergamot in tincture of valerian or of asafoetida.
The adult workers will survive dipping in eighty per cent alcohol or in the abovementioned oils and tinctures duly diluted.
On returning the dipped workers to their colony they are nut attacked as are aliens though they may be for a time avoided and on recovering from the bath they join their comrades in the common vocations of the nest.
I repeated one of the experiments of Bethe and obtained with my ants results similar to his.
When I mashed ants of colony Ce and with the juices thus obtained smeared ants of the alien colony Bb the Ce colony received the smeared ants without hostility and the smeared ants exhibited the trepidation usual at finding themselves in an alien nest.
Likewise ants from the Ce colony freshly smeared with the juices of Bb ants were not attacked in the Bb nest but they were evidently terrified in being there.
I then smeared a small number of Bb ants with the juices of Ce ants and put them into a new Petri cell with an equal number of uusmeared Ce ants and I smeared a small number of Ce ants with the juices of Bb ants and put them into a new Petri cell with au equal uumber of unsmeared Bh lwU.
In no ease did the unsmeared ants attack the ants that had been merged in the juices of their kin but the smeared ants attacked the unsmeared ants as they commonly attacked aliens.
The smeared ants never attacked each other.
After a worker had been smeared in the juices of ants of an alien colony and then isolated for about thirty hours it was returned to its colony and every worker that touched it with the antennaj started back in alarm but it was not attacked nor harmed.
The juices probably wore off gradually since smeared workers returned to their colony after one week of isolation were received with no sign of distrust.
A queen that had for over three months peacefully shared the cell and labors of a sisterqueen and five workers was smeared with the juices of aliens and at once returned to the cell.
She was immediately attacked by the workers as if she were an alien.
She evinced dread and submission in the usual manner of these ants by cowering low tightly shutting her mandibles folding her antenure and holding them close down upon her head.
Three Avorkers together attacked her but the attacks were intermittent and she soon crept up to her sisterqueen.
The queen prodded he curiously with the ends of the antenuit and showed no animosity.
Then a worker came and nabbed her in places and licked her in places as though she was a composite of alien and kin.
She was kept aloof from the group for a day or two and then resumed without harm her former associations.
Workers merged in alien juices were likewise attacked on being restored to their kiu but the attacks were not persistent and none were slain.
The losses of life or limbs all occurred through the attacks of the smeared workers upon the aliens among whom they were as wolves in sheep's clothing.
The smeared ants in spite of their disguise must have retained some evidences of their lineage which protected them from extreme violence.
When two parties each consisting of several workers that had been merged in the juices of the kiu of the other party were placed together in a new Petri cell there were no violent attacks from either side during the first two or three days.
A tendency to congregate according to colony showed itself from the beginning but by keeping the cell clean and preventing separate settlement of the two parties I secured the safety of both for eight days.
When I put in larvaB there was strife for its possession and at the end of tliree weeks the only survivor of one party defended the larvai against the sole survivor of the other party that with but five legs and a single antenna still made stealthy approaches toward the coveted young.
My observations of Stenamma Julvum piceum sustain the usual view that ants have an inherent and hereditary odor or something akin to odor whereby they are identified as friends or enemies and that they impart this odor to places which they frequent.
All the phenomena that I have observed in the lives of Stenamma Julvum piceum indicate that the distinctive odor may appear first in the larvoe and a little less faintly in the pupre that it intensifies with age as does the color that the sensitivity of the queen to this odor is greater than is that of the workers that any distinctive odor to wliich an ant is accustomed and with which it associates security and satisfaction is attractive to it while antodors to which it is unaccustomed excite alarm and hostility in proportion to their strangeness.
For such causes ants that have come from the eggs of colony M and in their pupastage were transferred to colony N while they affiliate perfectly with the iVants that they live among quickly recognize the odor of the M ants because it is their own.
As to the origin of the distinctive colony odor it appears possible that it may be traced to a king.
Among Stenamma Julvum jieum there are difiereuces in individual traits.
Some are more truculent than are others of their sex age and size or are more assiduous in their attention to the young or more devoted to the queen or the males or more gregarious in habit or more attached to the home  or more hostile toward aliens.
Every characteristic of a typical Stenamma Julvum piceum appears strongly in certain individuals and is comparatively weak in others.
The increasing tameness of my captive ants has been observable.
After some months of acquaintance these Nlyrmicid ants have wholly ceased to sting me when I handle them.
So domesticated have they become in their artificial nests that they rarely run outside their houses w'hen uncovered and the accustomed routine of cleaning their dwellings agitates them scarcely at all.
29 CRYSTALLINE AND CRYSTALLOIDAL SUBSTANCES AND THEIR RELATION TO PLANT STRUCTURE.
BY HENRY KRAEMER PH.D. Nageli and Schwendener in the preface to their chapter on morphology give us probably the most comprehensive idea of the scope of the subject.
They say  Zur Morphologic im weiteren Sinue des Wortes gehort die ganze Lehre vom Aufbau der Oganismen aus den Elementen woraus sie bestehen  von den Micellen welche die Bausteine der Zellen bilden bis hinauf zu den Einheiten der hochsten und letzten Ordnung Avelche den vielfach gegliederten Bau der hohern Gewilchse zusammensetzen.
Die Morphologic hat zu ermitteleu unter welchen bestimmten Form  und Lagerungsverhiiltnissen die Micellen und Micellarschichten sich vereinigen um die Zelle und deren Theile zu bilden und wiihrend des AVachsthums weiter aufzubauen sie hat hierauf die Zelle als gegebeu zu betrachten und zu untersuchen nach welchen Gesetzen die Vermehrung derselben erfolgt wie gleichsam Zelle auf Zelle gesetzt wird um die grossen Complexe zu bilden die wir als Organe kennen sie hat ferner dir Differenzierungen zu verfolgen welche in solchen Zellencomplexen nachtriiglich stattfindeu und endlich auch die Entwicklung neuer Organe aus schon vorhandenen sowie die Natur und Stellungsverhaltnisse derselben in Belracht zu ziehen.
As a result of having given considerable attention to what might be termed the morphology of plant constituents and having made a number of observations while trying to produce artificially from chemical solutions crystalline and crystalloidal substances resembling those formed naturally in the plant such as calcium salts inulin hesperidin etc. a number of questions have arisen in the author's mind concerning morphological development which are set forth in this pa2er.
Spherecrystals are spherical aggregates of crystals with sharp 1 Das Mikroskop von Carl Niigeli und S. Schwendener.
Zweite Auflage.
Leipzig  William Engehuann 1877 p. 532. augular contours which are made up of but one substance the molecule of which is simple or at least not very complex.
This class includes carbon compounds as well as inorganic substances.
Of these may be mentioned calcium phosphate calcium carbonate calcium oxalate amygdalin strychnine berberine etc.
Some of these compounds are soluble in water while others are not hence we may say that there are both soluble and insoluble spherecrystals.
As examples of the former may be mentioned the glucosides and alkaloidal salts while as examples of the latter we have calcium phosphate and oxalate the alkaloids etc.
The spherites resemble somewhat the sphere crystals but are distinguished from them by the fact that they have a more complex composition and the individual crystals have either a somewhat rounded outline or are imbedded in colloidal substances in which the crystalline or crystalloidal character is more or less obscured and hence with difficulty discerned.
The spherites also admit of a classification into soluble and insoluble bodies.
The soluble spherites or those directly soluble in water include hesperidin inuliu and allied carbohydrates and their crystalline character is most apparent when the specimens are dehydrated with alcohol.
The insoluble spherites are not directly soluble in water but may be reudei'ed so by treatment with certain reagents.
These include starch and the fundamental substances entering into the composition of the cellwall.
The spherite character of these substances is not at once apparent but can be demonstrated by the use of reagents which cause a swelling of the substances in the starch grain or in the cell wall.
In a paper' communicated to the Society ' See also Journal of American Chemical Society 1899 p. 650 and American Journal of Pharmacy 1899 p. 174.
The following are the reagents that were used  1 Chloral iodine  iodine solution  of each 5 parts.
2 Chlorzinciodide solution.
3 Chromic acid solution 15 per cent.
 4 Calcium nitrate solution 30 per cent..
5 Chloral solution saturated water and glycerin  of each 5. parts.
To this solution as much iodine is added as the solution will take up.
6 Saliva.
7 Silver nitrate 2 per cent..
8 Sulphuric acid C. P. acid 90 parts and water 10 parts.
9 Takadiastase saturated solution.
10 Sodium acetate solution 50 per cent..
11 Potassium hydrate solution y of 1 per cent..
of Plant Morphology and Phjsiology 1899 the author enumerated the substances which could be used to bring out the spherite structure in the starchgrain.
The same kind of reagents but in stronger solutions may be used to bring out the spherite structure in the wall of thickened parenchyma cells as endosperm or lignified cells as stone cells.
In eases where the cellwall has been metamorphosed into mucilage simple treatment with water as has also been shown with the starchgrain is sufficient to bring out the structure.
 The reason that this structure is not apparent under natural conditions is because the refractive properties of the crystalloidal substance so nearly resembles that of the associated colloid.
The use of certain reagents however which are more or less penetrating in their action cause an imbibition of water by the colloidal portions with consequent swelling of the grain or cellwall and a contrast in refractive power with the more insoluble and hence unaffected crystalloidal substances.
Spherecrystals are further distinguished from spherites in that the latter are capable of taking up or holding certain coloring principles as safranin gentian violet etc.
It is questionable however if the crystalloids contained in the spherite take up the coloring matters it being probable that the colloid associated with the crystalloid is the portion that is colored as I have already shown in my studies on the structure of the starchgrain.
In the cellwall the crystalloids occur in very close radial and tangential rows and constitute by far the greater proportion of the wall.
In the starchgrain on the other hand there is apparently a greater preponderance of colloidal matter which takes up certain stains.
This layering which is well marked in the starchgrain is scarcely distinguishable in the cellwall.
The reason that it is not so well marked in the cellwall is because of the difference in amount of the crystalloidal and colloidal substances the close arrangement of the crystalloids and also the difficulty of obtaining uniform microscopical sections as can be readily obtained with the starchgrain 12 Potassium nitrate solutiou saturated.
13 Taunin solution.
14 Potassium phosphate solution saturated.
15 Hydrochloric acid 5 per cent..
16 Water between the temperatures of 50C. and 70 C.  This wouUl tend to show that the crystalline structure is not due to the precipitation of substances by the reagents used.
The structure as well as the mode of formation of spherites and sphererystals is apparently the same.
The mode of formation is furthermore apparently the same whether observed in nature or as carried on artificially.
The different stages in their natural formation can be followed comparatively easily in those parts of plants containing hespcridin as the epicarp of citrous fruits or inulin as roots of artichoke etc..
It is interesting to compare these crystals or spherites with those formed artificially by evaporation of solutions of inulin or hesperidin.
It is also instructive to compare the natural oxalates phosphates and carbonates of calcium Avith those formed artificially by precipitation of soluble calcium salts with alkaline oxalates phosphates or carbonates.
After a comparison of the artificially produced spherites or spherecrystals with those formed naturally in the plant one cannot but conclude that there is a play of similar forces in their formation.
Furthermore if we examine the crystal masses remaining in a watchcrystal after the spontaneous evaporation of solutions of various substances under varying conditions of temperature etc. we observe not only the formation of crystals which resemble those produced in the plant cell but other rather striking forms of combination which are very suggestive indeed leading one to a comparison of the arrangement of the products of crystallization with the apparent multiplicity of forms found in plant life.
Indeed the arrangement of the crystals in such a watchcrystal reminds one of the appearance of our woods in winter when the absence of leaves permits the observance of fundamental lines of development in shrubs and trees.
If we take an alum solution such as a Delafield's Hmatoxylon Solution dilute it with water and allow it to evaporate spontaneously in a watchcrysl al the result will be the formation of concentric rows of acicular crystals Avhich show an analogy to the structure of the wheat starchgrain after treatment with the reagents mentioned.
The crystalline residue from a cocaine solution resembles a group of sclerenchyma cells in transverse section the individual spherecrystals resembling single cells the portion corresponding to the wall being made up of radiating acicular crystals which even join with those of the adjoining spherecrystals.
The latter arrangement may be likened to the pores in such thickened cellwalls.
A resemblance to the wav' contour of the walls of transverse sections of epidermal cells is exhibited in the residue formed by the evaporation of bruciue solutions.
The iufoldiugs in the parenchyma cells in piue stems and leaves is exemplified in the arrangement of the crystals which result from the evaporation of solutions of amygdalin.
From solutions of caffeine hydrobromate there separate crystals which in abundance and in arrangement resemble a dense mycelial development of penicillium with conidia.
The crystalline residue from solutions of berberine shows a marked resemblance to the outer morphology of certain Lycopcdiums species of Juniper and other similar arborescent plants.
Illustrations of this kind could be multiphed Avhich would lend to show a relationship between the form of crystalline groups and the ultimate arraugetnent of the substances entering into the composition of the plant.
The chemist has considered but one phase of the subject of crystallization namely the form and nature of individual crystals.
The botanist however until recently has considered the aggregation of morphological units as is evidenced in his studies od the outer and inner morphology of plants.
But as the form and nature of the individual units are seen to depend more or less upon the nature of the substances comprising them it becomes of fundamental importance to study the composition of these units in their relation to form and structure.
In the case of inorganic bodies chemical as well as physical tests are necessary to prove the identity of a substance.
In the organized or organic world it has been impossible to define a siecies or designate the limitations of a species because our studies have been directed almost entirely to the outer morphology of individuals  rather than to the study of the substances which grouped together form these individuals and the physical and chemical forces underlying their structural arrangements.
The same substance may under different conditions develop different outer forms as for example alum may crystallize in monoclinic prisms hexagonal prisms or in arborescent forms or splierecrystals.
Chemical tests are necessary to prove the identity of the substance in these various forms.
Not all substances however show this tendency to variation in form of crystals as for example caffeine berberine and still other substances which show a tendency to uniformity in general outhne.
If then there is so much variation in the form and arrangement of crystals of the same substance when artificially formed to what extent may not variation in form take place in bodies of complex composition and therefore influenced by comjlex attractions and repulsions 
Now while we see in the crystal a decided tendency to uniformity of structure under similar conditions yet admitting of modifications under varying conditions we must allow that in organized structures this tendency to uniformity is modified over and over again.
In the plant world similar variations are observed not only in forms of the elements roots stem leaves flowers fruits and seeds comprising the individual but also in cellcontents.
In some socalled species individuals vary greatly as regards form of elements as in oaks violets etc.
In others a constancy is observed as in Enjthronium.
In still others a variation in the form assumed of some of the cellcontents is observed as in the crystals of calcium oxalate in Datura stranioniitm while in other crystals a constancy of form is observed as with calcium oxalate in the genus Viola.
Even in the study of starchgrains one observes a constancy in the form of the grains in all plants.
There is however a sufficient modification in some of the grains in the reserve underground parts of such plants as potato maranta etc. to justify one in pronouncing on the origin of the starch.
The same may be said of other substances as calcium oxalate inulin and other carbohydrates etc.
 The selection of certain constant forms of cellcontents or of cellwalls would appear to be of as much or greater importance in designating the limitations of a species as the outer form of elements which it is evident are dependent upon the arrangement of aggregates of substances making up the individual.
As this arrangement is due on the one hand to the chemical factors food  The author Proc.
Amer.
Assoc for Add.
of Science 1899  see also Bulletin of Torrey Botanical Club 1899. and air and on the other to the physical factors light and temperature variations are bound to occur.
If however these variations are constant for a series of successive generations and can be demonstrated in cellcontents cellwalls and cellfunctions then a species has been formed but not otherwise.
In the inorganic world as we well know physical and chemical tests both are oftentimes necessary to prove the identity or specific nature of a substance.
Likewise in the biological world physical and chemical tests of cellcontents cellwalls and the products of cellfunction are necessary to establish the specific character of an individual.
The author desires to acknowledge his indebtedness to Florence Yaple of Philadelphia for valuable assistance in the preparation of this paper.
THE NASAL PASSAGES OF THE FLORIDA ALLIGATOR.
BY ALBERT M. REESE PH.D.
The material upon which the followiog work was done was received by the writer from southern Georgia about the first of August whence it had been sent by express to Baltimore. It consisted of about thirty eggs of Alligator mississipplensls most of which contained embryos in an advanced stage of development.
These embryos were fixed in Kleinberg's dilute picro sulphuric mixture giving a fair fixation and were stained in borax carmine and Lyon's blue.
Serial sections were cut through the head in transverse horizontal and sagittal planes.
Although the structure of the nasal cavity even of so advanced an embryo cannot be taken to represent that of the adult there have been so few figures of this character published that the following account may be of interest.
As may be seen from Plate XXIV figs la and 16 the embryo is in an advanced state of development and already shows distinct reptilian characters.
The first series of sections figs.
2al was cut at right angles to the long axis of the snout of the embryo fig.
lb xy or rather it was intended to be an exactly transverse series but by faulty orientation the sections were so cut that the right side is inclined somewhat toward the base of the snout.
This departure from the exact transverse position is the cause of the lack of symmetry in the two sides of the nasal cavity as seen in this series of sections.
Fig.
2a represents a section through the tip of the upper jaw.
On the left it passes through the extreme edge of the wall of the nasal cavity while on the right side which is nearer the base of the snout it cuts through the right nasal aperture r.n.a.
Near the centre of the section is seen the extreme tip of the nasal cartilage n.c.
The body wall h.w. in this section as in all following sections is represented by a heavy black line.
American Naturalist VoL XXXV No.
411 pp.
193195.
Fig.
26 is somewhat further from the tip of the suout and cuts through the extreme point of the lower jaw l.j.
On either side of the large median nasal cartilage n.c is seen the nasal canal l.n.c.
and r.yi.c.
On the left the canal is at this point somewhat circular in cross section while on the right which it will le remembered is nearer to the base of the snout the canal is more elongated in a dorsoveutral direction.
The walls of the nasal passages are lined with cilia and are in most places many cells thick.
On account of the low magnification used no attempt has been made to represent the cilia and cell outlines in these figures.
The collections of cells t.r. in this and the following sections are the rudiments of the teeth.
At the point represented in fig.
2e the nasal cartilage i.c. has increased considerably in extent and almost completely surrounds the nasal passages on each side.
In this and the following two sections the plate of cartilage b.  which lies ventral to the nasal passage on each side seems no longer to be continuous with the vertical septum s. as in the preceding figure although it is still in close contact with it.
The nasal canals are drawn out in this section in a ventrolateral direction until their passages are reduced to mere slits.
The passage on the right is drawn out laterally toward a small group of cells r.n.g. the apparent rudiment of one of the nasal glands.
The teeth rudiments t.r. are seen in both upper and lower jaws in the former of which they are very large in proportion to the size of the jaw.
The cartilages of the lower jaw are seen on each side m.c.
In fig.
2d the nasal canals are still more closely invested by the nasal cartilages.
On the right the section passes through the opening of the right nasal gland r.n.g. into the nasal passage of the corresponding side.
On the left side of the section is seen the left nasal gland l.n g. cut in front of its opening into the uasal passage that is between this opening and the tip of the suout.
In all the following figures anterior will mean toward the tip of the snout posterior will meau toward the base of the snout or of the head.
Fig.
2e is a short distance posterior to the last figure.
On the right it passes through the extreme anterior edge of the right eye c while on the left the section is anterior to the eye.
The nasal cartilage n.c on the right completely encloses the nasal passage of that side and thus lies between that passage and its nasal glaud.
The section is cut posterior to the opening of the right nasal gland r.n.g. into the right nasal passage r.n.c.
The left side of the section passes through the opening of the left nasal gland l.n.g. into the left nasal passage.
In the next section fig.
2 the complexity of the nasal apparatus has apparently considerably increased.
In the first place the ventral portions of the nasal cartilage which anterior to this point formed a more or less complete wall ventral to the nasal passages have disappeared and on the right the dorsal portion of the'cartilage has separated from the median s. and is now represented by a short straight piece n.c'. and a long curved piece n.c enclosing a part c of the right nasal passage.
On the left the dorsal wall of cartilage is still connected with the median septum.
The nasal passages are here of quite different shape from what they were in the preceding section.
They are still more elongated in a dorsoventral direction and that on the right which is nearer the base of the snout is cut at the point v. p.  at which it opens ventrally into the narrow ventral passage which in turn leads posteriorly to open at the posterior nares.
d. represents a narrow diverticulum projecting in a ventrolateral direction which may be followed almost to the jiosterior end of the large dorsal passage.
A large branch of the main nasal passage r.n.c is represented at c and the following section passes through the point at which this lateral passage opens ventrally into the main passage.
On the hift side of the section is seen the left nasal gland l.n.g. cut posterior to its opening into the left nasal passage.
On either side of the ventral end of the median cartilage s. is seen a small collection of cells j. which according to Rose is the rudimentary Jacobson's organ.
These two collections of cells which will be spoken of as  Jacobson's organ extend from this point posteriorly for a considerable distance as two solid rods of cells they then become hollowed out to form tubes which soon open ventrally into the ventral nasal passages v.j.
 as will be shown in one of the following figures.
The section represented in fig.
2 passes near the extreme anterior end of Jacobson's organ.
In fig.
2g which is only a short distance posterior to the one just described Jacobson's organ is still seen as two solid rods of cells.
On the right the ventral nasal passage v.. is cut posterior to its opening into the main nasal passage and is hence seen as an independent circular passage.
On the left the section passes through the opening of the left ventral passage v.p'. into its adjacent main nasal passage.
The ventrolateral diverticula d. and d'. are seen on either side.
The right side of the section passes through the oiening of the cavity c. into the ventral part of the right nasal passage r.7i.c. while on the left the corresponding cavity c'. is cut anterior to its opening and is surrounded on all sides by the nasal cartilage.
In the preceding section the cavity c. Avas cut posterior to the region at which it was completely surrounded by cartilage.
In fig.
2h the nasal cartilages have about the same outline as in the figure just described the sections represented by these two figures being close together.
Jacobson's organ j. has increased somevvhat in size but there is still no trace of a cavity in either part.
Both ventral nasal tubes v.p. are now entirely distinct from the main nasal cavities and are somewhat circular tubes lined with columnar cells.
On the left the side cavity c'. is still surrounded by cartilage being again cut anterior to its opening into the left nasal passage l.n.c while on the right of the section at the point c.  the side cavity is seen to open dorsally into the main nasal cavity.
The relation of this side cavity to the main nasal cavity is made plain by reference to fig.
3a which represents a section cut in the plane ab fig.
lb.
The section passed through the dorsal part of the nasal cavities cutting the cavity on the right so far dorsally that but little indication of the side cavity c is evident.
It is plain from this figure that what ha been called a side cavity c'. is merely the posterior end of the main nasal cavity which has bent around until it projected outward and forward and thus gave the idea in transverse section of a distinct ofishoot frorh the main nasal cavity l.n.c.
Fig.
3a shows how the nasal cartilage .c. pushes in between the cavity c' and the main cavity l.n.c giving the impression in transverse section that the cavity c' is completely surrounded by cartilage.
In a section ventral to this one what has been called the main nasal cavity l.n.c is seen to extend somewhat further toward the brain br. and in that way the cavity c'.
is made to appear more like a branch of the main cavity than simply a forward bendiug of the larger cavity.
This posterior extension of the main nasal cavity is shown in fig.
21 l.n.c.
Fig.
3a shows that the median nasal cartilage s. extends back between the eyes and becomes continuous with the cartilage surrounding the brain.
It is somewhat swollen at a point about halfway between the nasal cavities and the brain.
The section repiesented in fig.
21 passes through the extreme posterior part of the main nasal cavities l.n.c.
and r.n.c and cuts the ventral canals v. p. posterior to the point at which Jacobson's organ opens into them.
The way in which this takes place will be described later.
The lateral parts n.e. of the nasal cartilages have diminished considerably in size and now lie much nearer to the median cartilage s. This section passes through the anterior ends of the two olfactory lobes o. I.
In fig.
2 is represented a section cut posterior to the nasal cavity so that neither of the main or dorsal nasal chambers are seen.
The ventral passages v.jj. have about the same size and position as In the preceding figure while the lateral cartilages n.e. are reduced to mere rods lying close against but not fused with the median cartilage 6 A short distance posterior to this point these cartilages end.
The section seen in fig.
2k is some distance posterior to the one just described and shows how the ventral canals v.j. unite to form a single median canal before they open posteriorly as the posterior nares.
This section does not cut the lateral parts of the nasal cartilage but the median septum s.  is seen extending dorsally b.c on either side of the olfactory lobes o.l.
The outlines of the muscles of the eyes are shown in this as well as in the following figure by dotted lines m. Fig.
2ns somewhat posterior to fig.
2k and passes through the opening of the ventral passages the jioscerior nares p.n.
The other points brought out in this figure are about the same as in fig.
2k and need no further description.
Fig.
4a represents under a much higher magnification a part of one of the sections of the series that has just been described.
The veutial end of the median cartilaginous septum is shown at s. and the ventral ends of the right and left nasal passages are seen at r.n.c and l.n.c.
The walls of these passages are made up of one or more layers of cubical or columnar ciliated cells.
The ventral passages v. p. are lined Avith similar cells except that no cilia could be made out.
On the left is seen dorsal to the left ventral passage the tubular organ of Jacobson j. which is cut anterior to its opening into the ventral passage v.jy its cavity is small in cross section and only extends for a short distance anteriorly the greater part of the organ being a solid rod of cells without any visible cavity.
On the right side of the figure which it will be remembered is posterior to the plane of the left side is seen the opening of Jacobson' s organ J. into the right ventral canal v. p. The united cavities of the ventral canal and Jacobson's organ have a sharply triangular outline which is maintained for a considerable distance posterior to the point at which they first come together.
The walls of the organ are of about the same structure as those of the ventral passages.
For the sake of simplicity the mesoblast cells in this and in all of the preceding sections have not been represented.
They are typical mesoblast cells and surround numerous blood vessels.
Fig.
5a represents a sagittal section of an embryo of the same stage of development as the one represented in fig.
la.
The section is nearly but not exactly in the median plane so that some of the organs are cut medianally while others are cut to one side of the median plane The general outline of the head is well shown and the relative positions of the main regions can be seen.
The brain br. and spinal cord s.c are represented in the heavier shading the cartilaginous parts including the vertebral column V.C. in the lighter areas.
The great size of the nasal cavity is due to the fact that the section passes through one of the main nasal passages in the plane of its greatest diameter fig.
2.
The other parts of the head will be easily understood by reference to the letters.
As in the previous sections the mesoblast has been omitted for convenience and simplicity.
Letter I XG of Figures.
b.
 Basal plate of cartilage.
b.c.
 Cartilage around the brain.
hr.
 Brain.
h.w.
 Body wall.
c.  Later.il part of nasal canal.
d.  Diverticulum of uasal canal.
e.  Eye.
7i.
 Hypophysis.
j.
 Jacobson's organ.
L  Lens.
l.j.
 Lower jaw.
I.
I.e.
 Left uasal canal.
l.n.g.
 Left nasal gland.
7i.
 Muscle of the eye.
1901.
46
ni.c.
 Cartilage of lower jaw n.c.  Naal cartilage.
0.
 CEsophagus.
I.
 Olfactory lobes.
'p.n.
 Posterior nares.
r.n.a.
 Kight nasal aperture.
r.n.c.
 Right nasal canal.
r.ii.g.
 Eight nasal gland.
s.  Nasal septum.
s.c.  Spinal cord.
t.  Tongue.
ta.
 Trachea.
t.r.
 Tooth rudiment.
v.c.
 Vertebral column.
v.p.
 Ventral passage.
X.
 Septum projecting back between main nasal canal and its side branch.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIV.
All sections icere drawn with a Zeiss Camera.
Fig.
a.
 Side view from a photograph of an embryo of the stage repregented in the sections.
The yolk is not represented but the cut stalk may be seen projecting from the abdominal wall just anterior to the hind legs mag.
f diam..
Fig.
16.
 This is merely an outline drawing of the preceding figure to show the planes of the sections represented in the following figures.
Fig.
2a.
 Transver.e section through the tip of the snout.
The section is so near the tip of the snout that it does not cut the lower jaw mag.
4 diam..
Fig.
2h.
 Transverse section posterior to fig.
a.
It passes through the extreme tip of the lower jaw mag.
4 diam..
Fig.
2c.
 Transverse section still further toward the base of the snout.
The details of the figure will be understood from the lettering mag.
4 diam..
Fig.
2d.
 Transverse section posterior to the preceding mag.
4 diam..
Figs.
21 to h.  Transverse sections posterior to the preceding passing through the right eye but anterior to the left eye mag.
4 diam..
Fig.
2J.
 Transverse section passing through the .extreme posterior part of the main nasal passages l.n.c.
and r.n.c.
The section passes through the anterior edge of the left eye and through the anterior ends of the olfactory lobes mag.
4 diam..
Fig.
2.
 Transverse section just beyond the posterior end of the main nasal cavities.
It passes through the extreme posterior ends of the lateral nasal cartilages n.c. mag.
4 diam..
Fig.
2k.
 Transverse section through the point where the two ventral canals yp.
unite to form a single large median canal.
The section passes through the eyes at about their central points and shows the sets of muscles by which their motion is controlled.
The lower jaw is cut at the point at which it becomes continuovis with the neck which accounts for the break in the ventral side of this and the following figure mag.
4 diam..
Fig.
21.
 Transverse section a short distance posterior to the one immediately preceding passing through the posterior nares p.n.
 and through the upper end of the trachea ta.
which appears in the figure to be three distinct cavities mag.
4 diam..
Fig.
ia.
 Horizontal section through the plane a fig.
h.
Shows the general anatomy of the head as seen in horizontal section and especially the way in which the main nasal passages l.n.c.
and r.n.c.
curve outward and forward as has been above described mag.
4 diam..
Fig.
4a.
 Transverse section under a much greater magnification to show the structure and position of the paired Jacobsou's organ j.
mag.
18 diam..
404 pkocpedixgs of the academy of July Fig.
5rtf.
 Sagittal section of the head of the embryo under consideration.
The section is not exactly in a median plane so that some of the unpaired organs are cut medianally while others are not mag.
4 diam..
Literature.
Beard J. Morphological Studies No.
4 The Nose and Jacobson's Organ.
Zool.
Jahrbiicher Bd.
Ill 1889 S. 753.
Broun H. G. Nasal Cavity of Crocodilia in ThierReichs Bd VI 3 Ab. Reptilien II S. 874.
Howes G. B.
On the Probable Existence of a Jacobson's Organ among the Crocodilia.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London February 1891 p. 148.
Meek A.
On the Occurrence of a Jacobson's Organ with Notes on the Development of the Nasal Cavity the Harderian Gland in Crocodilus porosus.
Jour of Anat.
and Physiol. Vol.
XXVII.
Sluiter C. Ph.
Das Jacobson'sche Organ von Crocodilus porosus Schn..
Anat.
Anz. 1892 S. 540.
