CRUSTACEA OF THE CRETACEOUS FORMATION OF NEW JERSEY.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
From the earliest exploitation of the Cretaceous beds of NewJersey, remains of Crustacea have been encountered by various observers, most of whom contented themselves with merely mentioning the occurrence of crabs' claws.
These remains have until now escaped scientific description.
The first notice ot crustacean fossils from the State, so far as I know, is contained in Vol.
I, part 2, pp.
195-198, of the Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York (1824), where Dr. J.
Van Rensselaer gives a brief account and figures of four supposed species from " the triangular peninsula comprised between the ocean and the Delaware and Raritan rivers."
The species are not named, and from the information given cannot be identified with certainty, but Nos.
1 and 3 may be Callianassa morioni, and No.
4 is possibly C. conradi.
Dr. S. G. Morton, in the American Journal of Science and Arts, XVII, No.
2, p. 287 (1830), notices Van Rensselaer's work, and mentions the finding of Adacus remains in Delaware; paraphrasing his remarks in the Synopsis of Organic Remains of the Cretaceous Group of the U. S., p. 74 (1834).
The collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia contains many specimens from the deep cut of the Chesapeake and Delaware canal, Delaware, and from Monmouth and Burlington counties, N. J., together with numbers without locality further than " Cretaceous, New Jersey."
During the last few years various members of the Academy have added specimens from Lenola, N. J., a locality unknown to the earlier collectors of Cretaceous fossils.
It is noteworthy that all the specimens thus far seen are from the * ' Lower Marl ' ' beds ; none have come to my notice from the Middle or Upper Marls.
I am indebted to Mr. Charles W. Johnson, Curator of the Wagner Free Institute of Science, for various references and the use of material in the museum in Jiis charge, including specimens collected by William Wagner, Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., and himself.
CALLIANASSA Leach.
The glaucouitic sands of the New Jersey Cretaceous are illadapted for the preservation of delicate structures, and therefore only the hard large claws of these soft-bodied Macrura are found.
Most of the species descril)ed from the Cretaceous, Eocene and Miocene of Europe are likewise based upon chelre.
In the United States one Eocene species has been described, C. ulrichi White, ^ from specimens collected by Mr. E. 0.
Ulrich near Little Rock, Ark., in a bed at first supposed to be Cretaceous.
The specimens before me were collected by Mr. C. W. Johnson at Mabelvale, Ark.
The propodite in this species is short and squarish, much as in C. conradi ; the lower border is somewhat crenate, and well-preserved specimens show a tuberculate tract on each side behind the commissure between the fingers.
The hand is compressed, as in C. conradi.
In Europe the fossil species from Mesozoic and Tertiary strata are numerous and an excellent account of them has been given by Milne-Edwards,* while notices and descriptions of various species occur in the works of many other authors.
The older species are very similar to living forms, weak and soft-bodied burrowers in the sand, and yet the genus has outlived most of its companions on the shores of the Cretaceous seas.
There is nothing like being adapted to your circumstances.
Our species apparently belong to that division of the genus in which the fingers are of equal length, but they are clearly distinct from any described European form.
Callianassa mortoni n. sp.
PI.
I, figs.
1-7.
Propodite (figs.
1-4) rhombic, its breadth about two-thirds the length, the outer face (fig.
1) very convex, the greatest convexity posterior and nearer the upper side.
Surface nearly smooth, usually showing a series of four distant punctures extending backward from the root of the fixed finger, and two on the other or more ' C. A.
White, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mas., Ill, 1830, p. 161 ; IV, 1831, p. 137, PI.
1, figs.
10, 11 (left propodite); G. H. Harris, Ann.
Rep. Qeol.
Surv.
Arkansas, II, 1892, p. 30, PI.
1, fig.
2a, 2b (left hand).
* Anriales des Sciences NaturelUs, 4 sen, XIV, ZojL, p. 301 (1860); a supplement in Nouv.
Arch, du Mas., 1870, Vol.
VI.
convex side; the posterior mar gin abruptly falling near the joint, a prominence bearing a group of small tubercles at the summit before the deflection.
Inner surface or palm (fig, 2) much less convex, becoming concave near the lateral margins, nearly smooth, the anterior margin slightly excavated between the root of the fixed finger and the dactyJopodite, and bordered there with a short row of small tubercles.
On the median portion of the palm there are two punctures, marking it off into thirds longitudinally.
Lateral margins of the propodite acute, closely, finely and regularly crenulate; the lower margin S'traight, with a row of punctures along the inner side but extremely near the edge, and another less close to the edge outwardly; upper margin deeply curved down posteriorly, produced into a deflexed lobe, and similarly margined Avith spaced punctures.
Fixed finger about one-third the total length of the whole propodite, curved at the tip, finely crenate along the grasping margin when unworn, and with a blunt median tooth.
Dactylopodite with two contiguous crenulate carinte along its outer edge, Carpopodite (PI.
I, figs 5, 6) somewhat shorter than the palmar surface of the propodite, equally convex inside and out, turgid anteriorly, its outer face with an oblique groove bordered with small tubercles near the distal lower angle.
Posterior upper angle produced backward in a rather slender process, Meropodite (PI, I, fig, 7) subtriangular in section, the upper keel strongly arched, lower keel nearly straight and more strongly serrate, the middle of the very convex outer surface granulose, with two rounded tubercles at the anterior extremity; the opposite or inner face nearly flat.
In all specimens preserved with the member.'?
in place, the meropodite is flexed at a right angle with the carpopodite.
Measurements of propodite, in millimeters.
Length.
Length exdmivs Width in the fj,i,j,,,,,,^ ^ of jinger.
middle.
(.')
— 29 19 9.5 (6) 25 18 11 6 The left chela of another specimen measures: Total length of propodite 27, palmar surface (without finger) 20 mm.
; width in middle 13 mm.
; greatest length of car])opodite, measured obliquely 20, or from middle of distal to middle of proximal margin 14 mm.
; width in middle 12 mm.
; length of meropodite 13 mm.
(Ko.
10,095 "Wagner Free Institute of Science, collected at Crosswicks, N. J., by Dr. Thomas H, ^Montgomery, Jr.).
I.ower ]Marl beds of New Jersey, Lenola (C. W. Johnson, Louis Woolman, H, C. Borden); Crosswicks (Dr. Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr.); Tinton Falls, Monmouth county (Coll.
A. N. S. ).
Also Delaware, deep cut of the Delaware and Chesapeake canal (Coll.
A. N. S.).
Types in Coll.
A. N. S. What Callianassa faujasi is in Europe to the Ma^strichtien, C. mortonl is on this side of the Atlantic to the " Lower Marl " beds.
It is an abundant species, known by remains of over one hundred individuals, chiefly the propodites only, though sometimes the meropodite, carpopodite and propodite are preserved in place; when this is the case, it is usually due to their being more or less imbedded in hard nodules.
The abrupt deflection of the hind margin of the more convex face of the propodite, and the downward bend, posteriorly, of its uj^per margin (as in fig.
3) are characteristic of the species.
Both chelie of a Lenola individual preserved in one nodule show the right claw to be somewhat the larger.
Otherwise the two -claws seem to be counterparts.
I can find no other difference.
The largest specimens show a shallow, vermiculate wrinkling of the surface, but the smaller are almost smooth to the eye or touch.
The crenulation of the margins becomes stronger with age, and is 'Occasionally lost or obscured by chipping of the edges.
It is named for Samuel George Morton, one of the earliest explorers of the American Cretaceous.
Callianassa conradi n. sj).
ri.
I, figs.
8, 9, lo.
Propodite rhombic, its length (without finger) not much exceeding the width, somewhat more convex on the outer than on the inner face, the posterior margin neither abruptly nor deeply dejiexed.
Surface smoothish, with some small tubercles on each side of the slight excavations on both sides .of the hand near the commissure between the bases of the tingers; the acute lateral edges <;renulated, as in C. moHoni, l)ut the lower edge is not deflexed posteriorly as in that species.
Fixed finger triangular in section, the angles crenulated, the flat grasping face with a short smooth rib near the base, which joins the keel along the outer angle of the finger.
Measurements of propodife.
— Length about 30 mm.
; exclusive of finger 18.5; width 1(5.5; thickness 7.6 mm.
Crosswicks and Monmouth county, N. J., with C. mortonl (Coll.
A. K S.).
In a few specimens the dactylopodite remains as a short stump only.
iSTo carpopodite or other part is known.
Thirteen propodites, probably belonging to as many individuals, are before me, the most perfect being one of two in the collection of the Wagner Free Institute of Science.
The claw of C. conradi differs from that of C. mortoni in being much shorter and broader; more evenly convex on the two sides, the posterior margin of the outer side and the keel along the upper edge are not abruptly deflexed behind; the fixed finger of the propodite of C. conradi has no median tooth on its grasping face, which is flat with a short smooth ridge and bounded by two crenulate angles, while in C. mortoni there is a median tooth, a crenulate ridge on the face, and no crenate angle along the lower inner part of the finger.
The name is in honor of Timothy Abbott Conrad, the al)lest of the early expositors of the Cretaceous and Tertiary faunas of the United States.
Figured type in collection of the "Wagner Free Institute of Science, No.
5,478 W. HOPLOPARIA McCov.
The following species are referred to this genus with due reserve, as until the cephalothorax is known their exact position in the Astacoid series must remain doubtful.
The specific characters of the fossils, however, may be readily appreciated ; and the definition of the species may call attention to the matter and lead someone to search for the missing parts.
Hoploparia gabbi n. sp.
PL I, figs.
11, 12, 13, 14.
Right propodite robust, evenly convex on both '"sides, but slightly more convex above than below, the surface slightly roughened everywhere by small flattened, separated, scale-like asperities; lower margin bluntly angular and marked by a slight groove ; upper margin narrowly rounded, bearing a couple of short conic spines, inserted slightly below the edge and directed downward and forward; and on each side there is a rounded tubercle at the base of the dacty]oi)odite.
Fixed finger rather slender, with a series of coarse tubercles (worn flat) along its grasping edge.
Dactylopodite armed with a short conic spine near its base (continuing the row of similar spines on the upper margin of the propodite), its grasping face with a series of coarse tubercles, worn flat.
Carpopodite (?)
irregularly cylindrical, gibl)0U3, a little compressed and faintly grooved along the outer side, bearing a series of several short spines along the inner.
Abdominal somites (PI.
I, figs.
13, 14) with highly arched tergum, the surface punctate.
Lower Marl beds, Lenola, N. J.
(C. AV.
Johnson, Uselma C, Smith); Monmouth county (William Cleburne).
Also deep cut of the Delaware and Chesapeake canal.
Cotypes are No.
527 Coll.
A. N. S. and 5,941 Coll.
Wagner Institute, from Lenola, N. J.
This species is based upon a right hand and group of four abdominal somites in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and a right hand and carpopodite (?)
in that of the Wagner Free Institute.
The fixed finger is broken in both specimens, and the proximal portion of the hand is wanting.
In the Wagner Institute specimen the base of the dactylopodite remains.
A much smaller propodite from Monmouth county, N. J., shows a series of four short spines along the upper margin; but perhaps this specimen belongs to an alliea but distinct species, as it is much less convex inside than the larger claws.
In the large specimens from Lenola only the anterior two spines remain, as described above, owing to the loss of the posterior portion of the hand.
On account of the mutilated condition of the remains, measurements cannot readily be given; but an Astacoid somewhat larger than the common Eastern crayfish is indicated.
The figures are of the natural size.
The high arch of the abdomen may be parti v due to lateral compression.
Until further remains come to light, and especially the cephalot borax, the generic position of the species will be uncertain.
It is named in honor of William M. Gabb.
Hoploparia gladiator n. sp.
PI.
I, figs.
15, 16.
Propodite long and narrow, parallel sided, its thickness more than half the width, about equally' convex on the two sides, smootliish, showing scattered punctures and under a lens a very fine punctulation ; on both sides of the hand a row of three or four small pointed tubercles runs lengthwise along the median convexity; lower edge bluntly biangular.
Fixed finger nearly double the width of the dactylopodite, pyriform in section, with a row of tubercles along the grasping edge.
Dactylopodite oval in section, also bearing pointed tubercles opposed to those on the fixed finger.
Length of propodite as broken 35 mm.
; width 11.5, thickness 7 mm.
Lower INIarl beds, Lenola, X. J.
(Charles W. Johnson).
Deep cut of the Chesapeake and Delaware canal (Coll.
A. N. S. P.).
Types are No.
10,120 Coll.
Wagner Free Institute of Science, and consist of an imperfect propodite with broken dactylopodite in place, a fragment of the fixed finger, apparently of the same specimen, and a fragment of another hand of larger size, width 14, thickness 9 mm.
They were exposed Iiy breaking hard nodules which occur in the clay at Lenola.
Another broken propodite is in the collection of the Academy from the deep cut of the Chesapeake and Delaware canal, in Delaware.
The species is readily recognizable by the long, narrow shape of the hand and the minute punctulation of the surface, the biangulate lower edge of the fixed finger and hand, etc.
It can hardly be the smaller chela of H. gahbl on account of the different surface-sculpture, etc.
BRACHYURA (?)
Remains of three crustaceans, probably short-tailed crabs, are contained in the collection of the Academy, but while specifically characteristic by their peculiar sculpture, they are too fragmentary to admit of generic reference, at least from my knowledge of the group.
One fragment shows keels on a smooth surface, somewhat like the hand of CalUnectes, though it is probably something very different.
Another (PI.
I, fig.
17) seems to be the finger of some very long-handed form.
It has three rows of long tubercles along the grasping (?)
face, three of smaller ones along the rounded and narrower outer margin, while a furrow runs along each side.
This and the preceding are from Monmouth county, N. J., but other fragments, probably referable to the long-fingered crab, are in tbe collection from Crosswicks, X. J.
Still other fragments (PI.
I, fig.
18) are strongly spinose.
I take that figured to be a portion of a hand from which the fixed finger has been broken ofi' at the position marked f. The opposite side bristles with three irregular rows of short spines, Avhile smaller ones are scattered over the palm.
The socket for the dactylopodite is very large.
These fragments are so strongly marked and easily recognizable specifically that I call the species Cancer (^f) whitfieldl ; the generic reference being admittedly merely provisional and to call attention to the necessity of examining further material; for it would be a Cancer only in the Linurean limits of that genus.
These fossils are from Burlingtor county, N. J.
The name is for Prof. R. P. Whitfield, whose volumes upon the paleontology of New Jersey have been of great use to workers in this field.
There are also some densely granulose remains of portions of limbs, possibly referable to Hoploparia or Adaeodes, in the collection of the Wagner Institute from Lenola, N. J. ; but they are too imperfect to afford data of value at present.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE I.
Fig.
1.
Callianassa mortord.
Right propodite, outside.
2.
Right propodite, inside; the fingers broken off.
3.
Right propodite, profile from above.
4.
Right propodite, posterior view.
5.
Right carpopodite, inside.
6.
Right carpopodite, outside.
7.
Left meroi^odite, outside (No.
4,059 W, Coll.
Wagner Inst.).
Fig, 8.
Calliana.%^a conradi.
Left propodite, inner face (No.
5,478 W, Coll.
Wagner Inst.).
9.
Left propodite, posterior view.
10.
Left propodite, profile.
Fig.
11.
Hoploparia gabbi.
Left propodite, outer face ; the dactylopodite sujiplied from another specimen.
12.
Left propodite, profile.
13.
Portions of four abdominal somites.
14.
Section of anterior end of same.
Fig.
15.
Hoploparia gladiator.
Outlines of broken fingers of the large fragment (fig.
16) (No.
10,120 Coll.
Wagner Inst.).
16.
Propodite, with dactylopodite.
Fig.
17.
Fragment of a finger (?
), species unknown.
Fig.
18.
Cancer (.^) ivhiifieldi.
Fragment of a propodite.
Figs.
1-4, 11-14, 17, 18 are from specimens in the collection of the Academy.
Figs.
5-10, 15, 16 are from specimens in the collection of the Wagner Free Institute of Science.
ON SOME POINTS IN THE PHYLOGENY OF THE PRIMATES.
BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN.
The suggestions liere offered, as to the possible orieriu of certairt structural resemblances noted between anthropomorpha and one of the family groups of existing lemurs, have resulted as a byproduct from a study of the interrelations of the Primates, undertaken with a different purpose; they are put forth simply as a contribution to the sum total of possibilities which, upon final sifting, shall some day determine the exact degree and manner of the relationship between men, apes and monkeys, and not in any sense as a demonstrated conclusion — for the reaching of which more detailed knowledge of the early Tertiary mammals is required.
In accounting for the later stages in the phylogeny of man^ three hypotheses are to be considered.
The view of Darwin,^ now held by a majority of systematists,.
is that the anthropomorpha (here used to include man and the higher apes) branched ofl from the main stem of monkeys after its divergence from the lemurs.
In 1860, Gratiolet' was led by a study of brain chai'acters aloue^ to the conclusion that each genus of anthropoid apes Avas descended from an existing genus of monkeys; thus he derived Gorilla from Cynocephalus ; Anthropopithecus from Macacus; Simia and Hylobates from Semnopitheeu.<.
This view has received little support and the facts now known show its complete untenability.
Lastly, Prof. E. D. Cope^ has suggested a common origin for the anthropomorpha directly from the Eocene lemuroids, independently of the line by which the monkeys came from the same stock, being led to this conclusion by a study of the tendency in certain races of men to the production of tritubercular upper molars, which tendency he interprets as reversion, or retrogressive ^ Descent of Man, Chapter VI.
^ ComptesBendus, 1860, p. 801, ^Journal of Morphology, 1888, p. 21, and Primary Factors of Organic Evolution, p. 154 (1896).'
evolution toward an ancestral lerauroid tritubercular dentition.
It appears to me that this observation of Cope's does not stand alone, and my })resent purpose is to indicate certain homologies which appear to fall into line with it.
In estimating the degree of relationship between men and apes, on the one hand, and eatarrhine monkeys on the other, and that borne by each series to their ancestral group, two sets of homologies are of especial value — those which the anthropomorpha share with gome, at least, among lemurs (in which eatarrhine monkeys have no part), and those connecting catarrhines with lemurs, which are, conversely, absent from anthropomorpha.
Some correspondences of much weight are disclosed by the teeth and the vertebral column; these will be briefly recapitulated without extended description of details, which have already been given in each case by recognized authorities, although it does not appear that due weight has been given to their bearing upon the present question.
It may be added that almost all have been verified by my own observations.
In anthropomorpha there is an oblique ridge crossing the crowns of the upper molars from jt»rofocone io meiacone.
* Tliis is present with great uniformity in the first and second human molars, as well as in the third when it presents the quad I'i tubercular form, and in examination of a considerable number of skulls belonging to all four genera of anthropoids, I have found it in every case where the crowns were sufficiently unworn to permit its disclosure.
Topinard lays much stress upon this crest and expresses the opinion that it represents the posterior border of the primitive three-cusped tooth," from which the four-cusped has been evolved by addition of a postero-internal cusp (hypocone).
He states, further,* that the crest is never absent in platyrrhiue monkeys — an assertion which appears to me too sweeping, but traces of it are certainly found in Ateles and Alouatta, and perhaps irregularly in other genera.
It is not found in any eatarrhine monkey, but reappears in the quadritubercular lemurs of the family Nydicchidce,'^ comprising *Owen, Odordografliy, PI.
116, fig.
6, and Comp.
Anat., Ill, p. 320 ; Huxley, Anat.
Vert., pp.
390, 396, 412 (direction of ridge reversed), and Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
of London, 1864, p. 314 et scq.
; Mivart, P. Z. S., 1864, p. 611 et seq.
; Topinard, L'Anthrojiologie, 1892, p. 641 et seq.
* ?.
c, p. 650.
^l.c, p. 683.
'Huxley, I. c, pp.
322-324; ]\Iivart, I. c, p. 631 ; Topiuard, I. c, p. 691.
Loris, Nyctlcebus, Perodidicus and Ardocehis, aud irregularly ia Microcebus^ and Galago.^ Of especial significance is the fact that some of the more recenth^ described Eocene Primates^'' present both a small fourth cusp and traces of the oblique ridge on the first and second upper molars.
In all catarrhine monkeys both upper and lower molars are quadricuspid, with strong transverse ridges connecting the opposite cusps."
This arrangement is not found in antliropomorpha, but is shown lioth above and below in Indris,^^ w hiJe Loris and Ardocebus show it in the lower jaw.
Mr. Mivart" directs attention to the fact that in man the spinous process of the third cervical vertebra is short and bifurcated ; in anthropoids it is elongated and simple, while in monkeys generally it is short and simple, as is the case in lemurs excepting in the Ntjdicebidce., among which in Nydlcebus it is quite human, while in Perodidicus and Ardocebus it is anthropoid.
Similar correspondences are exhibited by other parts of the spinal column.
In anthropomorpha the spinous processes of the lumbar and the last, or last two, dorsal vertebra?
are directed backward, the transverse processes are turned slightly backward (dorsally), and the anapophyses and metapophyses are few in number and feebly developed.
In catarrhine monkeys the corresponding spinous processes are bent forward, so as to make a distinct point of convergence about the next to the last dorsal with those of the anterior vertebrae, which are inclined strongly in the opposite direction; the transverse processes are horizontal or more usually slightly bent forward (ventrally), and the anapophyses and metapophyses are strongly developed and begin usually in advance of the seventh dorsal, extending posteriorly through the whole of the lumbar vertebriK?.
In all these respects lemurs agree with monkeys, excepting again the Nydicebidce, where the disposition is generally as in anthropomorpha.
^Mivart, I c, p. 621.
'Huxley, I. c, p. 325, fig.
5; Mivart, I. c, p. 625; Topinard, I. c, p. 692.
'"H. F. Osborn, Bi/U.
Am.
Mus.
of Nat.
Hist., 1895, p. 19, fig.
4, and Intt'/r national Dental Journal, July, 1895, PI.
AA, fig.
10. "
Huxley, Anat.
Vert., p. 401 ; Topiuard, I. c, p. 679.
'2 Huxley, P. Z. S., 1864, p. 326 ; Topinard, I. c, fig.
8, T. ''P.
Z. S., 1865, p. 550.
"Mivart, P. Z. S., 1865. p. 545 et xeq.
The sacrum in anthropoinorpha is composed of five or six coalesced vertebra; in monkeys the normal number is two or three, and a like number is shown by lemurs, except Indris, which ha.
'i four, and Perodlctlcus and Arctocebus, each of which has five.
'* Now if we attempt, from Gratiolet's standpoint, to account for the presence in anthropoids of so many of the above characters aa their supposed ancestors do not possess, inheritance being excluded by the very terms of the hypothesis, we are driven to analogous variation as the only process with which we have any acquaintance which might be held competent to explain them.
But, so far from there being any good reason to assume that analogous variation has been a frequent method in nature, there is, on the contraiy, warrant for an a priori belief that the mere mathematical chances against the occurrence of any single case of it are very great ; so that where, as in the present circumstances, seven cases of the independent development of almost exactly similar characters must have taken place in each of four sfenera (to say nothing of man, who is not provided for by the hypothesis), the improbability becomes so enonnous as to remove it from rational consideration.
'^ The theories of Darwin and of Cope remain to be examined, and it may be said at once that no one of the homologies which have been noted is excluded by either of them, but there is, in my belief, a wide difference in their relative probability ; that of Cope being so far the most simple, that it is logically indicated for our acceptance.
Darwin's hypothesis requires us either to suppose that there has been an extensive and complicated process of preservation of certain structures and suppression of others, in which the family groups now differ, or to take refuge again in analogous variation.
Both are rendered difficult of acceptance by the reflection that of the characters here advanced few, if any, can be believed to have been adaptive.
It is unsafe to dogmatically assert that a given structure ^^Mivart, P. Z.
-S'., 1805, p. 500.
*® Furthermore, the same principle must he invoked to account for the absence of the cusp-hearing heel on m^, possessed by each of the supposed ancestral genera ; for the presence of three external [cusps on the lower molars ; the pre.«ence of a vermiform appendix ; the independent origin of the left common carotid froTu the arch of the aorta, and the converging direction of the hair on the arms toward the elbow, all of which are peculiar to anthropomorpha.
can never liave been of adaptive character, but we are at least entitled to consider that if monkeys in general have flourished luxuriantly with transverse ridges on the crowns of their upper molars, and at most three sacral vertebrae, a slight oblique ridge on the upper teeth and two or three additional vertebrse in the sacrum can hardly be supposed to have had selective value to anthropoids.
The remaining theory, that of Cope, would account for the conditions noted by the process of direct and simple inheritance, and requires no greater amount of assumption than has more than once been justified iu the course of phylogenic speculation.
Fragmentary as are the remains of the Eocene lemuroids which have come to light, they are enough to show that while the group as a whole was generalized, it yet presented at that early period, a considerable amount of variety in details, many of which have been preserved in existing lemurs.
Of these early forms we have remains of little but jaws and teeth, but the many and curious correspondences which have been noted betw^een anthropomorpha and the Nijctlcehldce are best intelligible upon the supposition that they originated in a group which, possessing the tooth characters shown by each, had associated with them the other structures as well; such may have existed among the Anaptomorphidce, but in the present state of ignorance as regaixls the details of the remaining skeletal structure of that group, it would be rash to attempt a close specification, either of the particular form or of its geographical region.
Cope's viewof the independent origin of the anthropomorpha was based upon the supposed tendency in the human race to revert to a tritubercular form of molar.
There are minds to Avhich reversion is but a convenient term denoting a process which it is rarely possible to either prove or disprove; but whether or not it be accepted in this case, ^' Prof. Osborn has figured the upper jaw of a Primate^* (possibly Indrodon) from the Puerco beds, possessing quadritubercular upper molars, with traces of an oblique ridge — an observation which greatly fortifies Cope's position.
His case of reversion, if admitted, would then lead a stage further back to "It is to be observed that Topinard's refutation (L c, p. 707) of Cope's hypothesis is ba*ed upon a misunderstandiug of its real terms.
^^Bull.
Am.
Mus.
of Xat.
Hist., 1895, p. 19, fig.
4. the primitive throe-cusped molar, which was in all certainty that typical of the earliest lemuroids.
The better agreement of this hypothesis with the successional relations shown by paltTDontology, must be emphasized, for as far aa can now be determined, apes of anthropoid character, such as Pliopithecus and Dryopithecus, were already differentiated in the middle Miocene, at which time, or even later, monkeys appear to have been represented only by such intermediate forms as Mesopitheciis.
No existing genus of catarrhine monkeys is known from earlier deposits than Pajno and Macacus from the Sivalik beds of lower Pliocene age, in which deposits other remains have been found which there is reason to regard as referable to Anthropopithecus and Simla.
The fact that before monkeys as now known, began to exist, man -like apes were far advanced in development, and that the earliest evidence of existing genera of apes is coeval with that of existing genera of catarrhines, tells enormously in favor of the early and independent origin of anthropomorpha.
The objections to this view which arise from the closer correspondence of anthropomorpha with moukevs, rather than with lemurs, in many soft parts of the organism, are not to be overlooked ; but the remarkable differences in placentation and in the anatomy of the sexual organs disclosed by closely related genera, and even species, in other groups; the smooth brains of marmosets among monkeys, and the readily adaptable character of muscular dispositions, and all structures relating to locomotion, renders these characters of more or less uncertain value in classification.
It is no part of the pi-esent purpose to inquire closely into the corresponding stages in the pedigree of the remaining Primates, to do which, indeed, we are yet too ignorant of many essential details, but this much may be said : the Nyeticebidce, which suggest so many human and simian traits, are far from being typical lemurs, with which in general structure the monkeys show much agreement; but catarrhines and platyrrhines are wide enough apart in many ways, and the period during which they have been thus separated is so immeasurable, as to suggest Ihe greater probability that their chief characteristics were already differentiated in their respective Tertiary forerunners.
The remarkable fact that some platyrrhine genera, as Ateles, present traces of nearly all the modifications which have been noted as characteristic of anthropomorpha and the Nydieebidce, perhaps supports this view, but at the same time well illustrates the complexity of the problem.
If the progress of palaeontology should justify these speculations, it seems to follow that it is likely to also demonstrate themultiple rather than the single origin of the present Lenmro idea.
