ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA IV.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
lu the present coninmnicatiou the description of Japanese Clausiliidie is continued and that of the Pupidce begun.
The genesis of amlike forms in Japan is considered in some detail together with various other divergent branches from the Euphsedusoid phylum.
For most of the material described I am indebted to the liberality of Mr. Y. Hirase a corresponding member of this Academy.
Mr. E. R. Sykes also has entrusted to me certain specimens collected in Japan by Dr. Hungerford many years ago representing species described but not figured by Dr. O. von Mollendorff and I have included herein some account of such of these as are closely related to my new forms.
IMy thanks are due to both of these coworkers for their kind assistance.
Section ZAPTYX Pils.
Proc.
A. N. 8.
P. 1900 p. 672.
This strongly differentiated group has hitherto been known from southern Kiushiu and the Loo Choo Islands only  but a representative has now been found to the north and east in an island belonging to the province of Izu I have attempted below to explain its presence there.
Typical Clausilia Zaptyx Hirasei occurs at Kagoshima the type locality and on Sakura Island in Kagoshima Bay.
A more slender form of a richer darker brown color but the same internal structure has been sent by Mr. Hirase No.
557 from Kikai Osumi at the head of Kagoshima Bay.
Many specimens are very small length 7 mm. but others reach 10 J mm.
in length.
As the shell is quite slender this is one of the smallest Clausilias  In treating of Eulota cormivens Proc.
Malac.
Soc.
Lond. IV p. 77 Mr. Glide has confused this locality with the island Kikaiga shima of the Oshima group south of Kiushia.
This island is in the Loo Choo group broadly speaking but belongs for administrative purpeses to Kagoshima Ken or prefecture.
30 knowu as well as one of the most complicated in internal structure.
Clausilia hachijoensis n. sp.
PI.
XXVII figs.
39 40.
Shell fusiform rimate rather thin of a dark rich brown color rather weakly wrinklestriate the latter part of the last whorl distinctly and sharply striate.
Whorls 8 to Sh slightly convex the apex obtuse the last whorl somewhat flattened laterally and gibbous or sacklike below.
Aperture trapezoidalpiriform the peristome continuous brown narrowly expanded and subreflexed.
Superior lamella rather small compressed vertical distant from the spiral lamella.
Spiral lamella short lateral not reaching a ventral position a short lamella Julcrans lying parallel to it.
Inferior lamella receding immersed visible in an oblique view in the aperture moderately spiral within subcolumellar lamella either emerging or immersed.
Principal plica short and lateral one or two short sutural plicre lying above it dipper palatal plica exceedinrjhj short and joining the lunella.
Lunella lateral rather long and straight.
Clausilium strongly curved throughout the apex rounded straightened or slightly emarginate ou the palatal side near the apex.
Laugth 10 diam.
2 J to 2 mm.
Bachijo or Hachijo Island prov.
Izu Mr. Y. Hirase Xo.
638.
This species is about the size of the largest specimens of C. Hirasel and C. hyperoptyx but is a trifle wider.
It difiers from both in wanting a parallel lamella and the upper palatal plica is extremely short a mere dilation of the upper end of the lunella.
In C Hirasel it stands free of the lunella and in C. hyjjeroptyx is united with it and is much longer.
The principal plica is shorter than in the other two species.
The clausilium is much more curved than iu either of these species and its apical end has a somewhat different shape.
The specimens were sent with C. Tryoni an Euphcedusa much resembling this species in size and color.
Bachijo or as most charts spell it Hachijo or sometimes Fatsizio Island lies iu the Pacific just above the 3.3d parallel Is.
lat. and near 140 E. long.
It is somewhat over 100 miles from the nearest mainland and is about iwentyoue miles long by seven and a half wide.
A chain of islets reaches northward to 'the Sagami Sea but I am disposed to believe that its molluscan fauna has been derived chiefly from the islands south of Kiushiu by means of drift as it lies directly in the Kuro Shi wo or  Black Current and Zaptyx the group to which C. Haehijoensis belongs is distinctly a southern group unknown in Hondo Island.
Small islets at wide intervals are scattered down to the Bonin Ogasawara group but they rise from a submarine ridge in the sea bed between 1000 and 2000 fathoms depth.
The two secies of Clausilia here described and Clausllla Reinia varlegata var.
nesiotica Pils.
are the first land shells known from the island.
 Section EUPHDUSA Bottger.
Clausilia Tryoni n. sp.
PI.
XXV figs.
1 2 3.
Shell small rimate thin fusiform dark purplish brown glossy.
finely striatulate the last whorl more coarsely ribstriate.
Whorls 8 rather convex the apex obtuse next three or four whorls attenuated the last whorl flattened on its last half.
Aperture piriform the peristome rather thin narrowly expanded and sub reflexed continuous adnate or very shortly free above deeply emarginate at the position of the superior lamella.
Superior lamella thin but high continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella rather small weak below though emerging nearly to the lipedge rather abruptly becoming stronger and converging toward the superior lamella within strongly spiral.
Suheolumellar lamella emerging.
Principal plica short its lower end visible from the aperture deep within the throat the other end extending past the palatal plicae to a lateral position.
Upper and lower palatal pliae small oblique and parallel lateral in position the lower one smaller.
There is no trace of a lunella.
The inferior and spiral lamellre are of equal length within and reach to the middle of the ventral side.
The clausilium is broad strongly curved a little pointed or tapering toward the apex and very slightly thickened there.
Length 11 diam.
3 mm.
Bachijo Hachijo Island prov.
Izu Mr. Y. Hirase No.
638.
This pretty little Eaphadasa was sent with Clausilia Zaptyx hachijoensis which it resembles iu size aud color.
It will be known by the unusually strong superior lamella emerging subcolumellar lamella and total absence of a lunella the two palatal folds being small remote and parallel.
The clausilium though YTJde is a little tapering below aud less thickened at the apex thau in most of the related species.
There is some variation in sculpture one specimen being densely and rather sharply striate while the others are smoother.
Group of C. Hunfjerjordiana.
Shell with the ordinary slender contour and piriform aperture of Eupluulusa.
Superior lamella wanting or represented merely by a slight thickening of the lipedge.
Inferior lamella rather strongly developed.
Lunella subobsolete or wanting palatal plicte 2 the principal plica short.
Shell usually variegated with white streaks.
This new  Formenkreis contains two species both Japanese.
Clausilia Hungerfordiana Mlldff.
PI.
XXV fig.
4.
Von MoUendorff Journ.
Asiatic Soc.
of Bengal LI Ft. 2 No.
1 p. 2 PI.
1 fig.
1 July 1882.
The specimen figured is fi'om Hungerford's collection and is DOW in that of Mr. E. R. Sykes.
It is slender thin conspicuously streaked and maculate with buffwhite on a brown ground.
It is finely rather irregularly striatulate the striie becoming coaiser and distinct on the back of the last whorl.
The superior lamella is represented by a slight thickening of the lipmargin.
Inferior lamella strong.
Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immeised.
The lather short principal plica is lateral the lunella subobsolete upper aud lower palatal plicpe being developed.
Length 12 diam.
2.5 mm.
Nara Yamato.
Thus far known from the type locality only a town lying east from Osaka in northern Yamato.
Clausilia monelasmus PilsPIXXVII tig.
6.
Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Pbila. 1900 p. 674 PL 24 figs.
46  PI.
25 figs.
2629.
The specimen here figured has the inferior lamella more receding than in the tyj and the shell is variegated with white.
It is evident that this is a northern species very closely related to C. Hung erf ordiana from Avhich it differs in being smaller and more graceful decidedly more attenuated above with much stronger striation.
There is no trace of a lunella.
It is from Hokkaido Island while C. Huugerfonliana is from southeastern Hondo.
Perhaps northern Hondo will supply specimens of intermediate character.
The shell figured is 10 mm.
long.
Group of C. euholodoma.
Shell shorter than in normal Eaphcedusce the whorls reduced to 77 aperture broad squarishoval scarcely narrower above than below peristome continuous the broadly arched parietal margia in part adnate though distinct.
JVo superior lamella.
Inferior lamella strong spiral lamella and principal plica very short no lunella upper and lower palatal plicfe developed.
Clausilium Euphredusoid.
The single species of this group approaches Reinia in contour but like the preceding group the superior lamella is obsolete and the inferior lamella strong.
Clausilia euholostoma Pils.
PI.
XXV fii's.
6 7 s. Pilsbry Nautilus XIV p. 108 January 1 1901.
Shell rimate slenderly pupiform brown finely striate.
Apex rather acute spire rapidly tapering above whorls 77i quite convex the last two forming much more than half the shell's length and of about equal diameter.
Aperture of a broad squariihoval form scarcely narrower above than below peristome white reflexed continuous the strong j9'tefa margin arcuate and in part adnate.
Sujjerior lamella ivanting.
Spiral lamella reduced to a short plate deeply immersed developed in a lateral position.
Inferior lamella appearing in a front view as a strong triangular plate strongly spiral within.
Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immersed.
Principal plica reduced to a short fold lateral in position and about twice as long as the small upper and lower palatal plicse.
No lunella.
Clausilium very similar to that of C. comes but the palatal margin is more straightened near the apex and the columellar margin is more strongly notched near the filament.
Length 8.6 diam.
2.4 mm.
 length of aperture 2.3 mm.
Length 7.
3 diam.
2.
2 mm.
 length of aperture 2 mm.
2 See these Proceedings for 1900 PI.
XXV figs.
35 36. 
Mikuriya prov.
Suruga Y. Hirase.
Types Ko.
79724 Coll.
A. K S. P. No.
563 of Mr. Hirase' s collection.
This species is one of the most extraordinary modifications of the Eupluedusan stock yet known.
The large aperture resembles in form that of no other Clausilia known to me and shows but one lamella the inferior the superior lamella being wholly atrophied and the spiral lamella and principal plica reduced to short laminpe in the region where the clausilium lodges.
There is no trace of a lunella.
The clausilium remains well developed is slightly thickened distally and has all the characters of that of Eujjhcedum.
In the strong development of the inferior lamella C. euholostoma resembles C. Hungerfordiana IMlldff.
and C. moneloismus Pils. which are likewise deficient in the superior lamella.
C. euholostoma agrees with the typical forms of Reinia in having the aperture wide above not piriform as in the group of C. Hungerfordiana.
It is intermediate between the two groups in number of whorls and in general contour.
Sectioa EEINIA Kobelt.
Seinia Kob. Jahrb.
d. D. Malak.
Ges. Ill 1876 p. 34 proposed as a section of Balea  type Balea variegata A.
Ad.
The type of Reinia is a small taperingpupoid species with discontlnuom peristome the aperture being Buliminoid deficient in lamelhT and ivitliout pliae lunella or clausiluim.
It was included by Bottger next to Balea but that group as usually constituted consists of no less than three series of species each totally distinct and unrelated.
It was Dr. O. von MollendorfT who with keen insight first pointed out the fundamental distinction between Balea and Reinia. He recognized in the Chinese C. eastlakeana a less modified form of Reinia and after discussing the characters of the groii declared it to be related to the eastern Asiatic grou Fhcedusa.
The relation of Reinia to Phcedusa von jMollendorfi further held is comparable to that of Alopia to the true Clausilia of Europe  Phylogenetisch diirfte Reinia als der lebende Rest der Vorfahren der heutigen PhceditsaAvien aufzufassen sein wie 2 Jahrb.
d. D. Malak.
Ges. X p. 2G2205 1833 under description of C. eastlakeana a species from Fudshow on the island Nantai province of Fudshien southern China.
die BaleoClausilien die direkten nachkommea des Prototyps der Europiiischen Clausilien siud.
 The couclusiou that Reinia stands in close relationship with Plucdusa and has nothing to do with Balea was forced upon me by the study of a series of Japanese species before I knew that von iVIoIlendortt' nearly twenty years ago had been led to the same result by the structure of a Chinese form.
Only in one point of view the data before me seem to modify the ideas of the Oerman savant the Japanese series establishes such a connection between Reinia and Eaphcedusa that the descent of the former from the latter is strongly indicated.
Reinia is not a 2'initive Pluedusa but a degenerate one.
I regard Reinia variegata as the secondarily simplified end of a series leading from typically Euphredusoid ancestors just as Balea perversa is a secondarily simplitied and not a primitive Clausilia.
The east Asiatic series leads from forms with many whorls welldeveloped clausilium lamelhe and folds and continuous peristome to those with few Avhorls no clausilium the lamelke and plica reduced and in part lost and the peristome adnate above and finally interrupted.
Bottger has demonstrated that the older tertiary Clausiliidce of Europe had a narrow clausilium and the superior lamella was continuous with the spiral lamella the widening of the clausilium and separation of the superior and spiral lamellse being modern chai'acters.
Now Reinia and its nearest allies have the spiral and superior lamella interrupted and the clausilium when developed is of the very broad type.
These considerations seem to render the hypothesis that Reinia is a primitive Phcedusa quite inadmissible.
The chief characters of Reinia and the Euphredusoid forms leading toward it are stated in the following table  L. c p. 265.
472 July 'S p o 03 . as  'rZ  y o p. .
J 
 M CI 01  S a 3 o 6 3  s.
fl o R O o
ji 'X
  4J b   tej a o  o a .  m  fl o   f o  t fl o a p 1 1   O 'a s 6 o 3  rS S c3 sS Tc s' S U 0 1 5   4 H b 35 73 ci 1 i B S'n o O s 3  i  W 7   5 fl u tH 1    o ti o 2 fl Pi a o  c3 M m '  03 tj  O fl  J2 1 3 c3 w fl  S fl eS  c3 c3 fl o fl ti B .S H a a 55 a CQ o a OJ M lU o 'El  i a .S2  Na   8 5 P y to o to IM t 1 1 od' C5  i e .
 1  e OB '3 e . e   CO i li o tS  5  5 Oi S 1   1 1 t The interrelations of the above species are further illustrated in the following diagram the median portion of which shows the probable phylogeny of the forms under consideration  r Aperture wide above.
Aperture piriform.
Peristome incomplete Peristome j complete 1 no sup.
lam.
f No superior I lamella.
I Superior lamella deL veloped.
variegata nesiotica No clausilium or palatal plicae.
 Eastlakeana   euholostoma monelas7nus Hungerfordian a normal Eupfuedusa Clausilium and palatal plicre developed.
It will be seen from the table and diagram that no sharp line can be drawn between Reiiila and Euphccdasa.
The number of whorls varies by easy stages the form of the aperture is not correlated with other characters and upon the whole it is obvious that we have to deal with forms in various stages of change and ot degeneration of the closingapparatus from an Euphaidusoid ancestor.
In fact it is not quite certain that they had a single common progenitor they may be descendants from three species of Euphcedusa  but however this may be it is obvious that the original stock whether one or three belonged to the aeulus group of Euphcediisa and some apparently trivial features of the whole series such as the peculiar coloration give me reason to believe that the phylogeny indicated above is not far wrong.
Clausilia Reinia variegata A.
Ad..
PL XXV figs.
11 12.
Balea variegata A. Adams Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
ser.
4 I p. 469 1868 Kobelt Fauna Jap. p. 63 PI.
9 fig.
20 1879  Maitens Sitzungsber.
Ges.
Naturforsch.
Freunde zu Berlin 1877 p. 105.
The shell is sinistral rimate thin taperingpupiform the last whorl widest streaked xvlth opaque buff on an olivaceous or brownish corneous ground and more or less marked with spiral lines of the darker color.
The surface is irregular striatulate the last half of the last whorl being striate.
Whorls 6 convex and regularly increasing.
The aperture is broadly ovate with white.
reflexed peristome the right and left margins scarcely converging above xvidehj separated connected by a thin adnate jmrietal callus.
The superior lamella is minute short and removed from the edge of the parietal callus.
It is widely separated from the rather short spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella receding small becoming higher inside extending to a dorsal position.
Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immersed a long pit between it and the inferior lamella.
There are no plicse.
Clausilium wanting.
Length 8.3 diam.
above aperture 2.6 length of aperture 2.8 mm.
Tago A. Adams Tako in western Shikoku province of lyo  Uweno near Tokyo and Ujeno Hilgendorfj  Tokyo Donitz Takasaki prov.
Kozuke Y. Hirase jSTo.
525.
This species was found by Hilgendorf under the bark of trees by Donitz in hollow trees.
It is viviparous one specimen I opened containing a young shell.
Clausilia Eastlakeana Mlldff. of which I have specimens from the original locality is undoubtedly nearer variegata than any Japanese species having the same discontinuous peristome but it has longer stronger lamellae palatal phcse and an Euphredusoid clausilium.
Clausilia Reinia variegata var.
nesiotica nov. PI.
XXV flgs.
9 10.
Whorls h striatiou stronger than in variegata the last whorl with fine incised spiral strife.
Inferior and spiral lamella decidedly more strongly developed.
Length 8.39.5 diam.
2.7 mm.
Hachijo Island off Izu Mr. Y. Hirase No.
5256.
This insular race has slightly less degenerate lamella than the typical form from Hondo.
Some specimens from the outlying Ogasawara Bouin Islands Mr. Hirase's No.
469 apparently belong here though as only young ones have been received I am not certain of them.
Section TYRANNOPH.EDUSA Pilsbry.
This section is not allied to Eaphcedusa as I formerly supposed but to Heviiphitdnsa with which it agrees in the receding inferior lamella straightly ascending within and remote from the superior lamella.
Whether it will stand as a separate section or become a subordinate group of Hemiphcednsa depends upon the emphasis placed upon the different form of the clausiliuin.
Hemiphcedusa now comprises vaipus shellforms especially among Chinese species and will probably require to be more or less subdivided.
As the figure of C. mikado Pils.
was on too small a scale to show the form of the spire well 1 give here an enlarged outline PI.
XXVII fig.
35.
Clausilia iotaptyx Pilsbry.
PI.
XXVII fig.
3S.
These Proceedings for 1900 p. GT4.
The reference to plate in my former paper should read PL XXIV not  PI.
XXV.
In the description p. 675 eighth line from lop the luuella was stated to be  lateral whereas it is in fact nearly ventral.
The same correction should be made in the third line from bottom of same page.
The systematic position of this species was left in doubt in my former paper but further study inclines me to place a good deal of weight upon the characters of the clausilium in deciding on the classification of any Phsedusoid species and this would throw C. iotaptyx into my section TirannopJuedusa.
The definition of that group must then be extended to include species with fewer whorls but having the same type of closing apparatus.
As in C. mikado the upper half of the shell is attenuated.
Clausilia iotaptyx var.
clava Pilsbry.
PI.
XXVII figs.
36 37.
Pilsbry Nautilu. XIV p. 108 January 1901.
Much smaller than C. iotaptyx but similar in form whorls lH12 the first globose following 7 or 8 attenuated last 3 swollen and forming more than half the length of the shell the last whorl tapering below impressed at the position of the principal plica more or less distinctly ridged behind a wide shallow constriction behind the lip.
Finely striate where not eroded whitish or dirty buflf and lustreless.
Aperture as in C. iotaptyx but the subcohunellar lamella is sometimes wholly immersed.
Closing apparatus more lateral than in iotaptyx the upper palatal plica strong but short lower plica shorter connected with a rudimentary straight lunella which does not reach the upper palatal fold.
Alt.
12 diam.
2.8 mm.
Alt.
11.5 diam.
2.5 mm.
Senzan A.waji Island Y. Hirase.
Types Xo.
79723 Coll.
A. X. S. P. from Xo.
292 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This insular subspecies has onehalf to one whorl more than the typical form fi'om Omi province although it  much smaller the spire is somewhat more slender and the lunella is comparatively degenerate.
Section HEMIPH.EDUSA Bttg.
Group of C. validiuscula.
Clausilia gracilispira Mlldff.
PI.
XXVII figs.
2731.
Von MoUeadorff Journ.
Asiatic Soc.
of Bengal LI Pt.
2 No.
1 p. 5 PI.
1 fig.
3 July 1882 LIV Pt.
2 No.
1 p. 63 1885.
Two specimens labeled as this species were transmitted to me by Mr. E. R. Sykes.
They formed part of Brigade Surgeon Hungerford's collection and were taken by him near Kobi Japan about twenty years ago.
One of the specimens is slightly stouter and reddish the other more slender and pale yellowish green.
I shall refer to them as the reddish and the green examples.
The green specimen PI XXVII figs.
2729 is slender much attenuated above and has 9 convex whorls.
It is rather strongly regularly striate.
The last whorl is somewhat cylindric and on its last half the space above the po.sition of the princiial 2lica is distinctly swollen.
The aperture is decidedly oblique and ovate and from its obliquity appears abnormally short in the figures from being foreshortened.
The peristome is rather widely re flexed shortly free a little emarginate above and viewed from the base it is seen to be distmctly notched to the right of the superior lamella.
The superior lamella is marginal and slightly projecting rather short and distinctly flatopped  continuous with the spiral lamella.
The inferior lamella is very receding hardly visible in a front view.
Within it ascends straightly is rather stout and terminates below in a perceptible knot or callous thickening.
The subcolumellar lamella is very deeply immersed not visible within the mouth.
Both spiral and inferior lamellae ascend to a ventral positicm the former being higher in the region where the clausilium lodges.
The principal plica is visible within the aperture and penetrates to a lateral position being thus fully a halfwhorl long.
Below it there are four plicre the upper and lower well developed two very short indistinct minute callous nodules or plicae lying between them.
The clausilium PI.
XXVII figs.
30 31 is parallelsided acumiuate below abruptly and deeply emargiuate above ou the columellar side of the filament.
Length 10 diam.
2 mm.
This specimen agrees with von MollendorfTs description of C grac'dispira in color and form but differs in having fewer whorls 9i instead of 1011 and in having two minute intermediate palatal plicae instead of only one.
Moreover the lip is rather broadly reflexed not merely  hreviter expansum.
The reddish specimen PI.
XXVII figs.
3234 is wider than the green with the space above the principal plica very convex fig.
34.
Whorls 9.
The aperture is less oblique than in the green specimen but otherwise similar the oblique flattening of the top of the superior lamella and the notch in the pei'istome to the right of it being well marked.
Internally it is similar to the green specimen except in the following respects the spiral and inferior lamellpe are longer ascending almost jast the ventral position and between the upper and lower palatal plicre there is one very low nodulelike callus or intermediate plica.
Length 10 diam.
2.2 mm.
This specimen agrees with von Mollendorff's description in having an identical palatal armature.
In color and general appearance it is a good deal like C. atirantiaca var.
Erberi Bttg.
I did not examine the clausilium.
The rather peculiar form of the superior lamella in a front view is the same in the two specimens and when the intermediate palatal plicfe are so reduced as in these shells I am disposed to beheve that the differences above recorded are not of specific value.
It is obvious however that more material is needed to satisfactorily elucidate the characters of the species.
Groiqj of C. sublunellata.
This group was defined by von Mollendorft' in 1885.
It js characterized by the palatal armature the species examined by him having  below the principal plait first an upper palatal after this a very short second one and then a short straight lunella which in some forms is somewhat obsolete but always discernible.
In my opinion the group should be enlarged to include species which have below the principal plica or jilait one upper palatal plica followed by a straight Junella or a short low callous uorlule representing the lunella.
There is no lower palatal plica nor inward curve of the lower end of the lunella representing such plicq.
Since the lunella is a secondary evolutionproduct formed by the coalescence of primitive palatal plicre it is natural that species representing certain intermediate stages should occur Clausilia micropeas Mlldff.
PL XXVIII figs.
41 42 43.
Von iIllendorff Journ.
Asiatic Soc.
Beng. LI Pt.
2 No.
1 p. 12  LIV Pt.
2 No.
1 p. 64.
A specimen from Hungerford's collection doubtless one of the original lot Avas kindly lent me by Mr. E. R. Sykes.
On account of its relationship with the following species figures and descriptive notes are here given.
It has not before been figured.
The pale buft slender shell is attenuated above and consists of nearly 9 moderately convex whorls.
It is delicately costulatestriate.
The aperture is piriformovate with moderately reflexed lip which is quite deeply eraargiuate above.
The superior lamella is vertical rather slender and high marginal and continuous with the spiral lamella.
The inferior lamella is deeply receding not visible from in front.
Within it ascends straightly.
The subcolumellar lamella is wholly immersed.
Within the spiral and inferior lameilre are of equal length ascending to a point on the ventral side just above the superior lamella.
The principal plica is rather short not quite a half whorl long its lower end visible deep within the throat whence it extends almost past a strictly lateral position.
Below it there is a rather long upper palatal plica and then a very low rather wide and straight lunella.
No lower palatal plica.
The long narrow clausilium PI.
XXVIII figs.
4446 is parallelsided slightly acuminate below and not emarginate posteriorly.
Length 10.5 diara.
'2 mm.
In this specimen the lunella is apparently better developed than in that opened by Dr. von MollendorfF who in his first description states that there is a short upper palatal plica and sometimes a second punctiform one the latter evidently being the vestige of a lunella.
In his second article he finds  that there is an indication of a lunella below the second generally 2unctiform 'ilital plait.
In the specimen before me the structure is clearly a described above and figured on my plate.
When low ill developed or  puuctiform these palatal structures are doubtless subject to a somewhat wide range of variation although the difference between a  puuctiform plica with the indication of a lunella and a  low illdefined lunella occupying the same position appears greater in the statement than the structure itself.
Compared with C. perpallida this species differs in having the principal plica longer and the superior lamella a little more prominent.
The striation is also a trifle coarser and the form more cylindric less tapering.
These differences do not seem to me to be of specific importance.
Clausilia micropeas var.
perpallida Pilsbry.
PI.
XXVIII figs.
50 51 52.
C. perpallida Pils. Nautilus XIV p. 108 January 1901.
Shell rimate slenderly fusiform finely and distinctly striate pale corneous.
Apex obtuse the first whorl globose spire somewhat attenuated above.
Whorls 9 convex the sutures impressed last whorl but slightly narrower than the penultimate somewhat compressed.
Aperture piriform slightly oblique with rather distinct slightly retracted sinulus.
Peristome somewhat thickened reflexed continuous Superior lamella vertical continuous with the spiral lamella arising at the edge of the parietal li.
Inferior lamella deeply receding visible only in an oblique view within straightened and thickened below.
Both the spiral and the inferior lamellse penetrate inwardly to a fully ventral position and are of about equal length the former becoming very high for a short distance just within the position of the palatal armature.
Subcolumellar lamella is deeply immersed and either not visible within the aperture or showing the end only in an oblique view.
Principal plica less than a halfwhorl long the end visible within the aperture inner end extending a little beyond a short slightly curved or forwardly diverging lateral upper palatal 'phca below this and not connected with it there is a low callous pad representing the lunella no lower palatal fold.
Clausilium long slender and parallelsided somewhat acuminate toward the aDcx tapering to the filament the sides and apex thin in profile seen to be curved bowlike.
Length 11.4 diam.
2.6 mm.
Xisliigo province Uzpii Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
79725 Coll.
A. K S. P. from No.
4606 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Distinguished by the pale color subobsolete lunella and absence of any lower palatal plica.
It is closely related to G. mleropeas from which the shorter principal plica separates it.
Clausilia micropeas var.
hokkaidoensis Pilsbry.
PI.
XXVIII figs.
47 48 49.
C. hokkaidoensis Pils. Nautilus XIV p. 103 January 1901.
Shell similar to var.
jierpallida except in the following characters it is of a light brown color the spire is a little less attenuated above the peristome and superior lamella are thinner the spiral and inferior lamelke penetrate somewhat deeper and the lunella is more distinctly developed narrow and straight extending downward to the position of the wanting lower palatal fold.
Whorls Length 11.2 diani.
2.3 mm.
Length 10 diam.
2.2 mm.
Kayabe Ojima Hokkaido Island.
Types No.
79321 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
5466 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is the HemiiihcBdum referred to in these Proceedings for 1900 p. 674 as occurring with C. monelasmus.
I at first considered it specifically distinct but am now disposed to look upon it as merely a northern race of C. micropeas of Hondo Island.
It tapers more than C. micropeas which has a somewhat cyliudric contour.
Group of C. aivajiensis.
Clausilia harimensis Pilsbry.
PL XXVI figs.
16 17 is.
Pilsbry Nautilus XIV p. 108.
Shell rimate slender gradually tapering to a rather acute apex light brown finely and weakly striate more strongly and regularly so on the last two whorls especially tie last one.
Spire gradually tapering the last two whorls of about equal size.
Whorls slightly over 9 moderately convex.
Aperture trapezoidalpiriform sinulus well developed peristome thin whitish narrowly reflexed continuous emarginate at the position of the superior lamella.
Superior lamella marginal rather high but slender oblique disconnected from or sulContinuous with the spiral lamella.
Spiral lamella ascending to a merely ventral position very high inside.
Inferior lamella deeply immersed visible in an oblique view only straighteueJ inside thickened below.
Subcoluniellar lamella immersed the end visible in an oblique view bat usually a weak continuation reaches to the edge of the peristome.
Principal plica a halfwhorl long the lower end visible within the aperture  extending inward beyond the lunella.
Upper palatal plica short joined in the middle to the uari'ow well developed lunella which descends obliquely and curves backward below the recurved lower end representing a lfwer palatal fold.
Clausilium PI.
XXVII figs.
19 20 21 narrow parallelsided abruptly curved where it passes into the wide filament stralghlened toward the rounded hardly angular apex columellar side emarginate at the origin of the filament.
Length 11.5 diam.
2.8 mm.
Kashima Harima Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types Xo.
79133 Coll.
A. X. S. P. Allied to G. awajiensis Pils.
 bat that species is far more obese with tapering compressed last whorl.
Clausilia perignobilis n. sp.
PI.
XXVI figs.
13 14 .'.
Shell rimate fusiform attenuated above moderately swollen below pale brown densely and finely striate.
Whorls about 10 moderately convex the early ones corneous forming a slender apical portion the last whorl somewhat compressed laterally.
Aperture trapezoidalpiriform slightly oblique the siuulus somewhat retracted peristome whitish more or less emarginate above very narrowly reflexed.
Superior lamella small vertical reaching the margin continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella very deeply receding hardly visible from the mouth except in an oblique view.
Subcoluniellar lamella emerging usually distinct to the lipedge.
Principal plica fully a halfwhorl long visible in the aperture and extending inward beyond the upper palatal plica.
Lunella lateral oblique shaped like the letter J the lower end curving inward the upper end joining the middle of a rather short upper palatal plica which converges inwardly toward the principal plica.
Length 14.5 diam.
3 mm.
 longest axis of aperture 3.2 mm.
Length 12.3 diam.
2.7 mm.
Length 12.3 diam.
3 mm.
Okinoshima Tosa Shikoku Island types Xo.
80.813 Coll.
A. X. S. P. from Xo.
584 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
31 I at first identified this species with C. irwhilis Sykes described from Kinuayarna Shikoku Island but upon requesting a comparison with the type of that species Mr. Sykes noted several important differences.
The first two or three whorls in C. ignobilis are much larger not so slender and pointed as in C. perignobilis  and the lunella isbowshaped as in C. shikohiensis not Jshaped.
In other words the lunella in irnobllis and shlkoknensls unites with the lower outer end of the upper palatal plica curving gradually and imperceptibly into it the united plica and lunella having the shape of a drawn bow Avhile in C perignobilis the lunella unites with the middle of the upper palatal plica like the letter J.
In C. perignobilis the spiral and inferior lamellffi are both high and lamellar within of equal length attaining barely a ventral position.
The inferior lamella ascends rather straightly and is not spiral seen from the back in a broken specimen but is rather thick.
It gives off a branch toward the superior lamella on the parietal wall.
Clausilia perignobilis var.
kocMensis nov.
Similar to C. jjerignobilis Pils.
 from which it differs in the more robust broader contour more widely reflexed peristome and coarser striation of the latter part of the last whorl.
Length 15.5 diam.
4 mm.
Length 13.6 diam.
3.8 mm.
Kochi province of Tosa Shikoku Island Mr. Y. Hirase Xo.
6576.
The t7shaped lunella has the form of that of C. perignobilis.
Section STEREOPHiEDUSA Bttg.
Clausilia japonica var.
perobscura nov.
Similar to japonica but of a very dark almost blackish brown color and sculptured with much coarser more widely spaced ribstrise.
Suture with a whitish margin below.
Lower palatal fold very small.
Length 25 diam.
hardly 6 mm.
Whorls 11.
Shirono Buzen Mr. Y. Hirase.
It occurred with or at least was sent with a rather obese form Proc.
Malac.
Soc.
Lond. I p. 261 and these Proceedings for 1900.
.
G82 footnote.
of C japonlca having the usual fine sharp striation of that species.
Section MEG.4L0PH.EDUSA Boettger.
Clausilia Hiraseana Pilsbry.
PI.
XXVI flgs.
24 25 2G.
Shell rimate strong the last two whorls of about equal diameter and forming half the shell's length those above rapidly diminishing the lateral outlines becoming somewhat concave toward the apex the earlier three whorls being of about equal diameter dark reddish brown with a pale band below the suture the earliest whorls white.
Surface usually with a brilliant gloss sculptured with coarse stronrj slightly ivaved or uneven ribs which occasionally anastomose or branch and become finer on the upper imperceptible on the earliest whorls.
Whorls 11 to 12 but several are selfamputated in old individuals they are convex and parted by wellimpressed sutures.
The last whoid viewed dorsally is narrower than the swollen preceding whorl and is rather compressed hardly convex.
Aperture rhombicovate vertical peristome continuous reflexed fleshtinted whitish at the edge.
Superior lamella small marginal oblique continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella low and ieceding within rather straightly ascending and strongly thickened below.
Subcolumellar lamella deeply immersed not visible in a front view but its end may be seen by looking obliquely into the aperture.
Principal plica short its lower end visible deep within the aperture upper end scarcely extending inward beyond the palatal armature.
Palatal pliciB or folds lying a little dorsal of a lateral position four in number equidistant all strongly developed though short the upper fold a little longer diverging from the principal plica the lower fourth fold slightly longer than the two median and a little arched upward in the middle.
No lunella.
Oausilium evenly and rather strongly arcuate long and rather narrow parallelsided.
The apex is slightly acuminate on the columellar side being rounded and strongly thickened on the palatal side straightened a little concave PI.
XXVI figs.
22 23.
Length 27 to 29J diam.
6 mm.
Okinoshima province Tosa Y. Hirase.
A fine handsome species easily known by its strong sculpture.
which fiufls no parallel among known Japanese Clausiliidce.
It is allied to C. Fultoni Sykes described from Kinnayama Shikoku Island a species with fine striation.
Family PUPID.
Bifidaria armigerella var.
luchuana no v. PL XXVI I r fig.
54.
Shell similar to .
armigerella Reiuh.
 but with aa infraparietal lamella developed.
Length 2.25 diam.
1.2 mm.
Kunchan Okinawa types No.
80992 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
6196 of Mr. Hirase's collection and Yayeyama No.
619 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The type lot contains one sinistral specimen.
B. armigerella Reinhardt is described and figured as with but two teeth on the parietal margin evidently the angular and parietal lamellie.
It is from Nlisaki in the province of Sagami.
Vertigo Hirasei Pilsbry.
PI.
XXVIII fig.
53.
Pilsbry Nautilus XIV p. 128 March 1 1901.
Shell very minute openly rimate ovate brown glossy somewhat transparent faintly striatulate.
Whorls 4i the last a little contracted and straightened near the aperture.
Aperture truncateovate peristome thin hardly expanded the outer margin straightened but not inflexed to form a sinulus although it projects forward in a slight point or angle visible when viewed in profile.
Parietal wall bearing a rather strong lamella in the middle columella with a somewhat smaller lamella palatal plicoe two near together the lower larger elongated the upper tubercular sometimes obsolete.
Alt If diam.
1 mm.
Yanagawa province Chikugo Kiushiu Island Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
79738 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
570 coll.
Hirase.
Belonging to the V. modesta group this species is smaller than its allies.
As in some forms of V. modesta the upper palatal fold is sometimes obsolete.
The only other Japanese Vertigo described to my knowledge is V. hijdrophila Reinh.
 from the opposite end of the empire Hakodate Hokkaido Island.
Reinhardt' s species belongs to the group of Vovata and has five or .ix teeth.
It is about the size of T Hirasei measuring If by 1 mm.
EEFERENCE TO PLATES XXV XXVI XXVII XXVIII.
Plate XXV Figs.
1 2 3.
 Clausilia Euphoidusa Tryoni.
Hachijo Island.
Fig.
4.
 Clausilia Euphcedusa Hunfjerfordiana.
Kara Yamato.
Fig.
5.
 Clausilia Evphwdusa monelasmns.
Kayabe Ojima.
Fiss. 6 7 8.
 Clausilia Euphcedusa cuholostoma.
Mikuriya Surnga.
Figs.
9 10.
 Clausilia lieinia varicjata var.
nesioticu.
Hachijo Island.
Figs.
11 12.
 Clausilia Reinia 'cariegata A.
Ad.
Takasaki Kozuke.
Plate XXVI Figs.
13 14 15.
 Clausilia Hcmiphcedusa peritjnohilis.
Okinoshima Tosa.
Figs.
16 17 18.
 Clausilia Hemiphcedusa liarimensis.
Kashima Harima.
Figs.
19 20 21.
 Clausilia Hemiphcedusa liarimensis.
Clausilium.
Fig.
19 profile view from coliimellar side  fig.
20 view of interior face tilted to show shape of the apex  fig.
21 the same showing posterior emargination the apical end foreshortened.
Figs.
22 23.
 Clausilia McgalopheEdusa Iliraseana.
Clausilium.
Fig.
22 showing shape of apex  fig.
23 shape of posterior end the apical end foreshortened.
Figf. 24 25 26.
 Clausilia Megalophcedusa Hiraseana.
Fig.
26 natural size.
Plate XXVII Figs.
27 28 29 30 31. Clausilia Hemiplimlusa graciUspira green specimen.
Fig.
30 showing form of the apex of the clausilium  fig.
31 the posterior emargination.
Figs.
32 33 34.
 Clausilia Hemiphcedusa gi'acilispira reddish specimen.
Fig.
35.
 Clausilia Tyrannophcedusa mikado.
Figs.
36 37.
 Clausilia Tyrannophmdusa iotaptyx yar.
clava.
Fig.
38.
 Clausilia Tyrannophcedusa iotaptyx.
Figs.
39 40.
 Clausilia Zaptyx hachijoensis.
Plate XXVIII Figs.
41 42 43.
 Clausilia Hemiphcedusa micropeas.
Figs.
44 45 46.
 Clausilia Hemiphoidusa micropeas Clausilium.
Fig.
44 showing shape of ape.x  fig.
45 profile from columellar side  fig.
46 shape of posterior end the distal end foreshortened.
Figs.
47 48 49.
 Clausilia Hemiphcedusa micropeas yar.
hokkaicloensis.
Figs.
50 51 53.
 Clausilia Hemiphcedusa micropeas var.
perpallida.
Fig.
53.
 Vertigo Hirasei.
Fig.
54.
 Bifidaria armigerella var.
luchuana.
