DESCRIPTION OF A NEW GURNARD FROM FLORIDA WITH NOTES ON TH COLORS OF SOME OTHER FLORIDA FISHES.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
A small collection of fishes has recently been received at the Academy from Dade county Fla. in the Biscayne Bay region.
It was made during February of the past winter.
The Academy is indebted to Mr. James Spear Jr. for this addition to its collections.
He was also fortunate in being able to forward the specimens in a nearly fresh state of preservation so that I can give most of the life colors.
OARANGID..
1.
Selene vomer Linneeus.
1758.
Zeus Vomer Linnseus Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X I p. 266 in America.
Color in alcohol with brilliant silvery prevailing and everywhere with beautiful purplish and bluish reflections.
Back and upper surface of the caudal peduncle purplishbrown deepest along the dorsal profile.
A large scattered tract of dusky dots becoming darker and most tUstinct immediately above the eye.
Axil of the pectoral pale yellowish with dusky dots.
Spinous dorsal dusky.
Soft dorsal whitish with the long anterior rays dusky the longest ray very dark.
All the other fins whitish with more or less dusky on their outer portions.
Upper and lower anterior margins of caudal lobes dusky.
One example 10 inches in length from New river.
NOMEID.
2.
Nomeus gronovii Gmelin.
1788.
Gobius Gronovii Gnielin Syst.
Nat. I p. 1205 in oceano americano zonae torridae.
Color in alcohol dark brown on the back and top of the head the sides and lower surface silverywhite.
The dark brown of the back extends down on the sides in the form of five large saddlelike blotches becoming grayish below.
Lower side of the body with six or seven grayishbrown blotches.
Lower surface of the head with several grayish blotches.
Fins slightly tinged with strawcolor which may be due to the preservative.
Spinous dorsal black.
Soft dorsal ith three broad transverse blackish vertical bands leaving only narrow pale spaces between.
Anal with three narrow transverse blackish vertical bands which extend a little on the lower surface of the body and leave broad spaces between.
Two small blackish spots on the lower edge of the caudal peduncle.
Caudal with a blackish blotch at the base of each lobe.
Median portion of each caudal lobe blackish.
Pectoral with a longitudinal median blackish streak becoming diffuse on the outer portion.
Membranes of the ventral black except the outer portion which is pale strawcolor like most of the rays.
Length 4f inches.
One example taken from below a Portuguese manofwar Physalia in Biscayne Bay.
SERRANID.
3.
Diplectrum formosum Linnoius .
1766. fPerca formosa Linnaeus Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII p. 488 Carolina Coll.
D. Garden.
Color in alcohol pale brown above the lower surface silverywhite.
Back and upper side with eight broad transverse deep browm bands with alternating deep brown narrow bands between.
A deep brown band from the tip of the snout to the base of the upper caudal lobe.
Above this two similar narrow duskybrown bars.
Where all these bars cross dark areas are formed.
The side of the head and trunk are also marked with narrow pale slaty longitudinal lines each one with a little darker margin.
Dorsals and caudal with dilute yellowishbrown the former marked on the spinous portion with two broad pale slaty longitudinal bands which run back on the soft fin higher and lower the intervening space marked with another similar parallel band.
All of these bands are darker along their edges and run liigher on the posterior soft dorsal where a fourth runs backward from the base of the sixth ray.
Caudal with six more or less connected lines or bands especially above so that the fin has a spotted appearance.
Anal pale yellowishwhite with many dilute slaty linos.
Pectoral and ventral whitish.
A dusky spot on the chin.
Interorbital space with two narrow connecting lines also one between the nostrils.
Length 8 inches.
One example from lower Biscayne Bay.
LUTIANID.
4.
Neomaenis apodus Forster.
1792.
Perca apoda Forster in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen. Pise III p. 351 Based on Perca marina pitinis etc. Catesby Nat.
Hist.
Car.
Flor.
Bah.
11 1731 p. 4 PI.
4 lower figure no locality.
 Color in alcohol more or less faded dull uniform olive pale below.
 Credited by Pennant Arctic Zoology II 1792 p. 385 to the Bahama isles.
Pale vertical streaks or lines obscure.
A slaty line below the eye to the end of the opercle and another below this.
A brown streak across the base of the pectoral.
Two joimg examples from Card Sound.
5.
Ocyurus chrysurus Bloch.
1797.
Sparus chrysourus Bloch Ichthyologie III Pt.
8 p. 25 les eaux du Bresil.
Sparus Chrysurus Bloch I. c Plate 262.
Color in alcohol with upper surface deep ohvaceousgray and the sides and lower surface rosy.
A bright greenishyellow band from the tip of the snout at first narrow and then widening posteriorly until it includes the entire caudal fin.
Above this back and on the upper surface of the head are a number of dark greenishyellow spots.
Each scale on the cheek and lower surface of the head with a deep rosy spot.
Above the lateral line oblique dusky lines with a rosy tinge running up to the base of the dorsal.
Between the arch of the lateral line and the golden lateral band are about four narrow deep rosy lines running parallel.
Just below the yellow band are also two parallel deep rosy lines leaving a paler rosy space between then the rest of the lower surface is marked with seven or eight longitudinal bright greenishyellow narrow bands alternating with similar ones of deep rosy.
The lower edge of the abdomen and under surface of the head is whitish.
The scales on the chest and lower part of the abdomen are more or less whitish basally producing an imbricated appearance.
The top of the head is marked with bright olivaceous spots.
Dorsals and anal ohvaceousyellow the soft dorsal becoming very bright posteriorly.
Pectorals and ventrals yellowishwhite.
Iris red.
Lips dusky.
Inside of the mouth and gillopening whitish.
One example 7 inches long from lower Biscayne Bay.
Comparison with Brazilian examples is desirable.
6.
Haemulon sciurus Shaw.
1803.
Sparus Sciurus Shaw Gen. ZooL IV p. 439 PI.
64 American seas.
Color in alcohol ohvaceousdusky above paler on the sides and becoming yellow below.
Everywhere more or less brassy.
Side wdth about ten longitudinal slatyblue stripes each one edged narrowly with deep slaty.
Spinous dorsal dilute grayishgreen.
Soft dorsal dusky.
Caudal dusky the outer portion dilute greenishyellow.
Anal bright yellowishgreen with the base dusky.
Pectoral grayish.
Ventral bright yellowishgreen.
Each ramus inside the mouth JDright brickred.
Inside of the gillopening reddish above.
Peritoneum black.
One example 9 inches long from lower Biscayne Bay.
7.
Haemulon plumierii LactJpMe.
1800.
Labrus Plumiqrii Lacepede Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. Ill pp.
432 480 Plate 2 fig.
2 Amerique.
Color in alcohol brassy grayishbrown darker on the upper surface.
Side with many Ught bkie Unes each one bordered with deep slaty mostly longitudinal and those running from the pectoral and ventral very oblique.
Fins dusky and the margins of the membranes of the spinous dorsal narrowly deep brown.
Base of ventral dilute greenish.
Inside of the base of pectoral yellowish with bluish lines.
A brown bar across base of the pectoral.
Inside of the mouth and lower lip posteriorly orangered.
Outer portion of first ventral ray whitish.
One example 7 inches long from lower Biscayne Bay.
SPARID.
8.
Calamus bajonado Schneider.
1801.
5parus Bajonado Schneider Syst.
Ichth. p. 284.
Based on Bajonado Parra Descr.
Piez.
Hist.
Nat. 1787 p. 13 PI.
8 fig.
1 Cuba.
Color in alcohol brassybrown the margin of each scale with a narrow darker submarginal border.
Back a little deeper than the lower surface which is washed with silvery.
A dull bluish line below the eye running forward toward the tip of the snout.
Below this an indistinct bluish line and also several bluish spots on the cheek.
A bluish line across the upper edge of the opercle.
Two narrow bluish lines running out from the front of the eye.
A dusky band from the lower rim of the orbit to the corner of the mouth and across the mandible.
Vertical fins and ventral dull slaty mottled with brownish.
Pectoral pale brownishwhite.
Axil of pectoral pale yellowish.
Peritoneum silvery.
Iris fleshcolored upper anterior portion dusky.
One example 7 inches long from lower Biscayne Bay.
9Lagodon rhomboides Linuteus.
1766.
Spams rhomboides Linnteus Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII I p. 470 in America Coll.
D. Garden.
Color in alcohol duskyolivaceous on the back merging into silverywhite on the lower surface.
About seven vertical dusky crossbands with as many narrower and indistinct ones between.
A deep brown blotch on the lateral line above the base of the pectoral.
Side with eleven longitudinal slatyblue bands the intervening spaces more or less gilded.
Fins with the exception of the ventrals pale dusky the basal portions of the dorsals with many large gilded spots.
Anal more or less pale golden.
Ventral whitish with a large golden basal blotch.
Iris clouded with dusky.
One example 4f inches long from New river Fla. GERRID.
10.
Eucinostomus harengulus Goode and Bean.
1879.
Eucinostomus harengulus Goode and Bean Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. p. 132 West Florida Coll.
MM.
Kaiser and Martin.
Color in alcohol very pale olivaceousbrown above more or less silvery and the lower surface silverywhite.
The back is also clouded with a deeper shade of the general body color.
All of the scales with a more or less bright metallic bluish or purplish luster.
Snout brownish.
Upper portion of spinous dorsal blackish.
Upper vertical fins slightly brownish other fins whitish.
Iris silvery with dusky blotches.
One example 3 inches long from New river.
11Xystsema cinereum Walbaum.
1792.
Mugil cnerc .
Walbaum Pet.
Art.
Gen. Pi.sc III p. 228.
Based on Turdus cinereus peltatus Catesby Nat.
Hist.
Car.
Flor.
Bah. II 1731 p. 11 PI.
11 lower figure no locality.
 Color in alcohol pale olivaceousbrown the lower surface whitish.
Body washed with silvery shoing purplishblue reflections.
Side with seven vertical dull purplish bands running down from the back.
Vertical fins with minute dots of dusky also on the ventrals.
Spinous dorsal and ventrals washed with dilute greenishyellow.
Iris grajdshsilvery.
Peritoneum white.
One example 11 f inches in length from New river.
LABRID.
12.
Iridic bivittatus Bloch.
1797.
Labrus bivittatus Bloch Ichthyologie III Pt.
8 p. 107 PI.
284 fig.
1  j'eu ignore la patrie.
Color in alcohol greenisholivaceous pale or whitish below and the edge of each scale more or less tinted with dull coppery.
A dull purplish band running from the upper part of the eye narrowly bordered on each side while on the head with blue.
It runs along the base of the dorsal.
A dusky purplish band runs from the side of the snout through the eye to the base of the caudal above and along the side of the trunk it is very broad.
A similar narrow band from the pectoral along the lower side.
A narrow pale dusky band starts above the opercle and includes the lateral line till it descends posteriorly.
' I have recently rejected Walbaum's name Raia birostris adopting Raia manatia of Schneider.
A reexamination of Walbaum convinces me that the word birostris is evidently a typographical slip and that sucli names as he used in the  Additamentum are availaljle as binomials for in every case a specific name is italicised.
The name Mobulidce should supersede Mantidce.
See Science XVII April 10 1903 p. 594.
 Pennant says Arctic Zoology II 1792 p. 377 under his discussion of Labrus imiZa Linnaeus that it inhabits the seas of Carolina as I suppose the three former do of whicli the one immediately preceding is Catesby's fish.
A pale purplish streak below the base of the pectoral.
A purpUsh Yshaped bar on the opercle with narrow pale blue margin and with a deep violetblue spot above.
Upper Up oUvegreen.
Cheek pale.
Mandible with two brownishpurple crossbars narrowly bordered with pale bluish.
Dorsal fins dilute orange basally dusky with greenish spots narrowly margined with pale bluish.
Anal similar grapsh and with dull rosy tints.
Caudal deep orangered marginal portion of the fin blackish and with pale oblique bluish stripes.
Axil of pectoral pale green.
Iris bright orange edged with green.
One example 8f inches long from lower Biscayne Bay.
I am not certain that my fish is identical with Bloch's account as it also does not agree with his figure.
Lacepede's account is less satisfactory.
TETR AOD ONTID .
13.
Cheilichthys testudineus Linnseus.
 1758.
Tetraodon testudineus Linnaeus Sj'st.
Nat. Ed.
X p. 332 in India. Color in alcohol dark slatybrown the sides gradually becoming whitish below with a dull ochraceous tinge especially along the lower side of the head.
Large deep blotches of blackishbrown on the back made up of clusters of crowded spots which leave winding paler lines between.
On the sides these spots become separated and are very distinct against the paler background.
Axil of the pectoral brown.
Fins dull dusky with an indistinct tinge of dilute olivaceous except the anal which is white.
Lower surface of the body chalkywhite.
Iris yellowishgray.
One example 8f inches in length lower Biscayne Bay.
TRIGLIDffi.
Merulinus Jordan and Evermann.
Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Fish.
N. Mid.
Amer.
 No.
47 II 1898 p. 2 148.
Type Trigla carolinn' Linnscus Mantissa Plant. 1771 p. 528 in Carolina' marl Coll.
D. Garden.
14.
Merulinus salmonicolor sp.
nov. Head 3 depth 4 D. XI 11 A. II 9 P. Ill 12 V. I 5 scales  Cheilichthys is given generic rank for those American forms with a broad flattened or only slightly concave interorbital space.
Type Tetraodon testudineus Linnseus.
 The type of the species probably came from tropical America.
The rude accounts of Clusius and Willughby throw little light on the subject.
I have been unable to consult Dr. Gunther's reference  Tetrodon testudineus L. Amoen.
Acad. i p. 309 tab.
14 fig.
3.
The edition of Amoenitates Academicse etc. in the Academv's librarv has an account of Ostracion oblongus glaber etc. by Balk 1749 p.
591.'
It is based on Artedi Willughby Clusius Ray and Sloan and no locality is given.
If however Linnaeus sliould be found untenable Tetrodon geometricus Schneider is the next name available with certainty.
 This name is transposed from the original.
95 in the lateral line to the base of the caudal and about 6 more on the base of the caudal 10 scales between the origin of the soft dorsal and the lateral line in a vertical series and about 24 between the latter and the origin of the anal pores 50 in the lateral hne to the base of the caudal width of the head If in its length depth of head Ijjj snout 2 eye 5f  maxillary 2 mandible 2 width of mouth at corners 2f interorbital space 5 first dorsal spine 2f  third 2 first dorsal ray 2J first anal ray 3 eighth anal ray 2f upper caudal lobe 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 4 ventral 1 space between bases of innermost ventral rays 3f  ventral spine 2f.
Body rather stout cylindrical short in comparison and thickest anteriorly so that the greatest depth falls opposite the fourth dorsal spine.
The upper profile is evenly convex from above the eyes to the upper region of the caudal peduncle.
Lower profile more or less straight.
Chest and breast flattened and broad.
Caudal peduncle and posterior portion of the trunk compressed so that the depth of the former measured from the base of the last dorsal ray is about one and fourfifths in its length.
The upper and lower surfaces are also somewhat fiattened.
Head moderately large broad and high and its lower profile horizontal.
Snout long broad obhque and the profile straight.
The upper jaw projects down a little beyond the anterior profile of the snout which when viewed from above is seen to be concave.
On each side broad round processes with denticulated edges are developed and project anteriorly.
At the posterior outer edge of each is a small spine.
Eye a little posterior in the head and impinging on its upper profile.
A furrow runs from the lower edge of the eye down along the front of the snout to the nostrils.
louth large the jaws moderate and the lower inferior.
Maxillary falling a httle short of the front rim of the orbit and its distal expanded extremity about twothirds the orbit.
Teeth minute and in rather broad rasplike bands in the jaws.
Similar but smaller teeth in narrow bands on the vomer and palatines.
Tongue large broad thick smooth and only the small tip free in front.
Lateral articular region of the mandible with a short series of small serrse.
Nostrils anterior near together the anterior with a little flap and the posterior a little nearer the tip of the upper jaw than the eye.
Interorbital space rather narrow a trifle less than the internasal space flattened in the middle and each side a httle elevated.
Top of the head very slightly convex.
Bones of the head all with fine radiating strise.
Four preocular spines the innermost the larger.
Two postocular spines.
Two tympanic spines the posterior rather large.
A small coronal spine.
Nuchal spine long.
Preopercular opercular and humeral spines large and strong and of more or less even size.
Anterior and lateral labial bones each with a small spine that of the latter minute.
Gillopening extending forward nearly opposite the posterior nostril.
Gillrakers in 1  8 vi compressed short their inner edges with minute asperities and the longest a Uttle shorter than the longest filaments which are half the eye diameter.
Pseudobranchise large.
Isthmus very broad flattened and the gillmembrane free.
Peritoneum silvery.
Anus close to the origin of the anal fin.
Scales small finely ciliated and greatly reduced on the front of the back.
Scales on the belly small and smooth.
Base of the caudal scaly.
Space between pectoral and ventral naked.
Lateral line composed of simple tubes high continuous mostly concurrent with the dorsal profile and running down a httle above the middle of the caudal peduncle.
Origin of the spinous dorsal directly after the base of the pectoral the third spine the highest the first longer than fifth and the others all graduated down to the last which is very short.
The soft dorsal is inserted a little nearer the front of the eye than the base of the caudal the anterior rays a little the liighest and like the spinous fin depressable in a rather broad groove.
Margin of the soft dorsal with small notches.
Caudal long truncate.
Anal inserted below the origin of the soft dorsal the spines flexible shorter than the rays and the second a little the longer.
Margin of the rayed anal deeply notched and the penultimate ray the longest.
Pectoral long reaching opposite the base of the last anal ray and the eighth ray the longest .
Ventral long reaching the anal fin and the third and fourth rays the longest and about equal.
Color in alcohol deep olivaceousbrown on the upper surface indistinctly variegated with small darker specks.
On the head these are more distinct and form short wavy lines.
Edges of the mouth and gillopening pale yellowish the latter somewhat tinged with salmon.
Lower surface of the body white the flanks tinted with salmonpink.
Anal pink.
Dorsals and caudal dusky the former marked with diffuse darker spots.
A dark spot in front of the third dorsal spine near its margin.
Pectoral blackish variegated with rather large black spots and its inner ray whitish basally.
Ventrals whitish with many dusky dots.
Iris grayishbrown.
Inside of the gillopening brassydusky and blackish.
Length 10 inches.
Type No.
24343 A. N. S. P. New river Dade collnt3 Fla. Coll.
Mr. James Spear.
One example.
This species is related to Merulinus carolinus M. scituhis M. roseus and M. alatus.
It is closer to the latter in squamation but differs in more gillrakers and shorter pectoral.
The preoperciilar spine is also shorter.
From the other species it is chiefly distinguished by its bright salmonpink anal fin.
Salno the salmon color color referring to the anal fin.
15.
Prionotus evolans Linnajus.
1766.
Trigia evolans Linnaeus Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII p. 498 in Carolina.
Color in alcohol dull olivaceousdusky above the lower surface whitish.
Back Adth three dark crossbands and indistinct darker mottlings.
Head also mottled with darker sometimes forming diffuse lines.
A blackish bar across the interorbital space.
Dorsals and caudal grayishbrown diffused with darker.
Pectoral slatyblack with rather large round blackish spots and the edge of the inner ray whitish.
Other fins white the ventrals soiled a little on their median outer surface.
Inside of the gillopening dull yellow reddish on the shouldergirdle.
Eye deep graybrown.
One example 9f inches long from New river.
ECHENEIDID.
16.
Echeneis albacauda MitchiU.
1817.
Echeneis albacauda Mitchill Amer.
Month.
Mag.
Crit.
Rev. II p. 244 in the bay of New York June 22 1815.
Color in alcohol dull brown.
A broad lateral llackishbrown band running from the mouth to the base of the caudal and bordered narrowly below wdth dull slatywhite.
Lower rays of the dorsal and anal duskybrown and this color extending forward on these fins for the same height but becoming a little pale.
The remaining outer portions of the anterior rays and edges narrowly of the others whitish.
Caudal blackish with the upper and lower corners narrowly whitish.
Yentral and pectoral blackish with grayish posterior margins.
Iris blacldshbrown.
Length 5f inches.
One example taken off of a large shark evidently Scolidon terrcenovcel judging by a photograph captured in Carson's creek at Biscayne Bay.
It has 22 laminae in the disk and the median caudal rays project.
I prefer the separation of this species from the Indian until examples are compared.
1903.
337
