NOTES ON THE CONRAD COLLECTION OF VICKSBURG FOSSILS WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES.
BY THOMAS L. CASEY.
The following paper anticipates a more elaborate descriptive catalogue of the Vicksburg fossils which the author has in view and it is intended that the species here described as new shall be figured with the others when that is published.
It will be sufficient to state that nearly all the species here named for the first time are well known and represented in every collection from Vicksburg Red Bluff or Jackson that can be considered in any wa'' complete and there can be but little doubt of their ready identification from the diagnoses comparative or otherwise which it is thought are drawn up with sufficient fullness and accuracy for that purpose.
PELECYPODA.
Corbula laqueata usp.
C. filosa Con.
Am.
Jour.
Cone I p. 145 nomen prseoc.
Differs from the species named perdvbia by De Gregorio at least on comparing Vicksburg specimens witli those from Red Bluff I find that the latter form is shorter and differs greatly in sculpture in the umbonal region.
The true rugse do not begin for a considerable distance from the beak in the Red Bluff form this region being smooth or feebly wrinkled whereas in the Vicksburg species the rugae begin very near the beaks and the latter are more strongly gyrate.
As the Vicksburg species is distinct I would propose the name given to it in manuscript by Conrad.
C. laqueata is a small species never materially exceeding 6 mm.
in length by 5 in height the posterior flattened surface feebly delimited the bounding line being rounded and not carinate  the rugse are comparatively coarse ventrally.
It is confined to the upper marl and represented in the lower limestone by a variety having much finer rugae.
The type of Corbula interstriata appears to be the only known representative of the species and I have never been able to discover it at Vicksburg.
I did not examine the hinge with much care but the general appearance of the species is not very unlike that of C. gibbosa of Lea being shorter and relatively higher and it is probably a true Corbula.
Under his description of Corbula aliforrnis Am.
Journ.
Cone II p. 76 Conrad remarks that this shell belongs exclusively to the Shell Bluff group and is very distinct from C. alia of the Mcksburg group.
This statement is difficult to comprehend as C. aliformis has been found in abundance by Mr. C. W. Johnson in the bluff bordering Mint Spring Bayou at Vicksburg at a point only a few feet removed in elevation or horizontal distance from the pocket of sandy clay in which I have taken the true C. alta plentifully.
It is presumable therefore that both these species existed contemporaneously in the Lower Vicksburg.
They are both completely unknown from the Upper Vicksburg marl.
There is no reason to suppose that other species of this same subgenus of Corbula Tiza De Greg.
may not exist at Vicksburg and in fact I have a single valve that seems to indicate a third species much more equilateral than the others.
The small Mactra occurring in great abundance in the Lower Vicksburg is a different species from funerata which occurs only in the upper marl.
It is probable that the former which is much more inequilateral may be the one named imequilateralis by Meyer Bull.
1 Geol.
Surv.
Ala. p. 82 although the figure is rather poor.
It is singular that the corresponding species occurring in the Jackson is the counterpart of funerata from the Upper Vicksburg and differs decidedly from the Lower Vicksburg species.
In the Conrad Catalogue Am.
Journ.
Cone 1865 there are two species which appear to have been originally named Psamrnobia mississippiensis one under the genus Gari on page 4 the other under the genus Abra on page 5 the references seem to show that they were separately described and figured.
The species Abra mississippiensis is the only one of which I can find the type.
It is broadly oval but slightly inequilateral and of moderately large size relatively higher in form than Abra perovata with which it occurs very abundantly in some parts of the Lower Vicksburg.
The Gari mississippiensis I.e. p. 4 I cannot place and there appears to be no type in the Conrad collection.
There seems also .
to be no type of Tellina perovata Conrad and I have not been able to identify this species from the material in my cabinet.
In the list referred to the locahty Claiborne is attached to this species but probably in error.
The Abra protexta of Conrad of which also no type can be found is very abundant in the Lower Vicksburg to which it is entirely confined but it is a Tellina near vicksburgensis if I have identified it correctly from the published drawing the latter being about twice as large as any of my specimens but agreeing perfectly otherwise.
Tellina pilsbryi n. sp.
There is an undescribed Tellina occurring in large numbers in the Lower Vicksburg to which I take pleasure in giving the above name in honor of Dr. H. A. Pilsbry of Philadelphia.
It is strongly inequilateral trigonal with the ventral edge rounded rather thick in substance compressed the anterior and posterior sides broadly rounded the surface equally declivous and convex toward the edges and not more abruptly declivous along the anterior edge  it is strongly marked with fine very closeset concentric striae throughout.
The lateral teeth of the left valve are large and strongly developed those of the right obsolescent.
The larger cardinal of the left valve is subbifid.
The length of a nearly fullgrown valve is 9 mm.
 height about 7 mm.
 beak about 2 mm.
in front of the median line.
The lunule is small and slender.
Lucina vicksburgensis n. sp.
Occurs in the Lower Vicksburg in great abundance.
This species is subecuilateral suborbicular rather compressed the beaks somewhat high and acute the adjacent anterior sinus small and deep the lunule small and deepset and but little more than twice as long as high as a rule.
The surface is covered throughout with strong concentric raised lines which are closeset and low but becoming strongly lamelliform on the anterior and posterior dorsal declivities the dorsal edge being rendered rough spiculose and uneven thereby.
Cardinal tooth of right valve very oblique.
Length 7 mm.
 height 7 mm.
It grew somewhat larger than the type above described but never exceeded this length by more than about 2 mm.
It might be considered closely allied to the Jacksonian Cijdas curtus of Conrad Am.
Journ.
Cone I p. 139 as the posterior side is noticeably more truncate than the anterior were it not for the fact that curtus is described as ventricose a term which could not possibly be applied to vicksburgensis.
Lucina scopularis n. sp.
Red Bluff formation.
Approaches vicksburgensis very closely being orbicular and only moderately convex but it is a little smaller and the concentric lines are finer relatively less closeset and more lamelliform becoming still more strongly so on the anterior and posterior dorsal declivities though relatively less strongly so than on the corresponding parts of vicksburgensis.
It differs principally from the latter in the form of the anterostral sinus which is longer and more transverse in outline in the form of the lunule which is larger and very much more elongate and in the cardinal tooth of the right valve which is here scarcely at all oblique being almost perpendicular to the hinge line.
In both species the laterals are moderately developed and the ventral edges smooth internally without trace of crenulation.
Length of a moderately large specimen 7 mm. height 6.2 mm.
The anterior and posterior sides are almost equally and very broadly rounded.
This species is very shghtly more inflated than vicksburgensis.
There is a variety which is very abundant in the Jacksonian of Moody's Branch.
In the Conrad collection the only species of Lucina that I could discover is the largest form occurring at Vicksburg  moderately convex very thin in substance with feeble hinge and nearly smooth surface.
The label attached states that this is Lucina perlevis.
This is however the species which was subsequently described under the name mississippiensis.
There is some confusion here.
Venericardia vicksburgensis n. sp.
The larger Venericardia of the Vicksburg differs specifically from the one occurring so abundantly in the Jackson  named diversidentata by Meyer  and also rotunda of the Claiborne in having very much fewer radiating ribs these being only 1920 in number.
It is found only in the lower hmestone and attained a length of 22 mm.
or more.
It occurs also at Red Bluff.
Cardita aldrichi n. sp.
Lower limestone at Vicksburg occurring in considerable abundance.
It is only moderately convex inequilateral with about 15 broad feebly convex approximate radiating ribs.
The longerribs behind the middle are more notably wide and separated throughout their length by scarcely half of their own width.
The anterior lateral hinge tooth is distinct.
The length of a specimen rather more than half grown is 5.5 mm. the height 4.5 mm.
Area invidiosa n. sp.
From the Red Bluff formation of Mississippi I have before me specimens of a small Area probably allied somewhat to the Claibornian rliomhoidella of Lea.
It is subrhomboidal very inequilateral moderately inflated broadly rounded ventrally the anterior and posterior sides oblique the former rounded the latter longer and nearly straight.
The beaks are rather broad moderately elevated above the hingeline bisected by a feeble depression which becomes obsolete ventrally.
The hingeline is straight externally broadly feebly arcuate internally the line of teeth more than threefourths as long as the shell the lateral teeth becoming longer and strongly oblique.
The space between the beaks and the hingeline in flattened nearly smooth except some fine closeset parallel hnes of growth but at the posterior end there are some coarser parallel and feebly oblique lines.
The radial ribs are 28 to 31 in number rather coarse and separated by much less than their own widths except in the feebly depressed area radiating from the middle of the beaks where they become finer and relatively much more widely separated and generally with one fine intermediate rib between them in this region toward the ventral margin only  the ribs also become smaller but very closeset posteriorly in the flattened area toward the hingeline.
The surface posteriorly at an angle of about 30 degrees with the hingeline is convex becoming rapidly declivous and explanate to the latter.
The muscular scars are rather deep.
Lines of growth produce feeble transverse and rather widely separated nodules on the ribs generally becoming obsolete posterior.
The length of a moderately large individual of this species is 11.5 mm. the height 6 mm.
Area delicatula n. sp.
Occurs in the Lower Vicksburg limestone in great abundance.
It may be regarded as a homologue of invidiosa and is doubtless one of the smallest known members of the family.
It is elongate very inequilateral obliquely parallelogramic moderately inflated becoming flattened posteriorly toward the hingeline the latter long thin and straight the teeth small.
The space between the hingeline and the beaks rather low flat and smooth or nearly so narrowing very gradually posteriorly.
The umbonal impression with its diminished ribs is nearly as in invidiosa and many other species.
The ribs are some 28 in number relatively moderately coarse being generally separated by nearly their own wddths flattened.
Length of a moderately large valve 6 mm. height 2.62.8 mm.
It is somewhat singular that no reference has been made to the very different sculpture of the right and left valves of Area lesueuri Dall mississippiensis Con..
The left valve has the diverging ribs double the pairs being much more closeset than the single and smaller ribs of the right valve.
It results from this that the left valve is much the stronger and more frequently preserved intact.
Area vaughani n. sp.
While mentioning the genus Area it may be appropriate to allude to a species quite common in the Lower Claiborne at St. Maurice La. and allied somewhat to rhomboidella Lea.
It attained a length of more than 20 mm. with a height of 12 mm.
or more obliquely rhomboidal moderately inequilateral rounded anteriorly and posteriorly and broadly rounded ventrally.
It is moderately inflated the radiating concavity at the middle of the umbones almost obsolete and having merely shghtly wider intervals between the ribs the latter 4143 in number.
The hingeline is long and straight the teeth becoming larger and very oblique laterally but well developed throughout with their sides finely ribbed giving to each tooth a bipectinate appearance.
The area under the beaks is ample and broadly divaricately striate.
This species differs from rhomboidella in its much larger size more numerous ribs rounded ventral edge and many other characters and may be named vaughani.
A fair illustration of it was given by Mr. Vaughan Bull.
Geol.
Surv. 142 PI.
Ill fig.
8 in whose honor it is named.
A modification of the true rhomboidella but still smaller in size also occurs sparingly at St. Maurice.
SCAPHOPODA.
Dentalium strenuum n. sp.
In the Upper Vicksburg there are two large species of Dentalium one  jD.
mississippiefise of Conrad  is moderately large gradually tapering throughout its length feebly evenly arcuate having about 12 wellmarked raised threads which lecome doubled or sometimes quadrupled in number anteriorly but generally almost effaced at the mouth.
A moderately large specimen measures 47 mm.
in length by 4.6 mm.
in maximum diameter.
The other species which may be named strenuum is much larger nearly straight but becoming more rapidly arcuate and also more distinctly tapering in form near the posterior end.
The ribs are some ten in number at the smaller end becoming generally quadrupled in number at the mouth where they still remain very distinct.
The substance of the shell is much thicker being frequently 1.2 mm.
through the walls near the middle.
The notch at the smaller end is nearly as in mississippiense but generally deeper and more acute.
The largest entire specimen in my cabinet measures 67 mm.
in length by 6.3 mm.
in maximum diameter but I have seen fragments measuring more than 7 mm.
in diameter and which represented examples probably not much less than 90 mm.
in length.
Dentalium opaculum h. sp.
Occurs in the Lower Vicksburg in very great numbers.
It is smaller than mississippiense somewhat less arcuate gradually tapering notably uneven in growth and frequently more or less contorted at various points in its'extent smooth but dull in luster devoid of any trace of elevated ribs or threads except toward the smaller end where some 12 to 16 faintly raised subequal hnes become visible.
The posterior notch is very feeble and broadly angulate much feebler than in either of the preceding species.
A moderately large example measures 40 mm.
in length by 4 mm.
in diameter but the latter dimension occasionally attains 4.5 mm. which would represent a rather large individual.
Dentalium zephyrinum .
sp.
The commonest species at Red Bluff closely resembUng the preceding in general size form and slight irregularity of growth but the longitudinal threads are distinct throughout the length and of a different form being wider and flat equal about 16 in number very strong posteriorly becoming finer and feebler anteriorly where one or two feebler intermediate threads become visible.
The posterior notch is well marked not broadly angulate but generally rather deeper than wide.
The length of the largest individual before me is 41 mm. with a maximum diameter of 4.2 mm.
Dentalium polygonum n. sp.
This species also from Red Bluff is still more slender and is peculiar in being a perfect heptagon in crosssection near the smaller end the angles of the polygon being minutely elevated forming fine but conspicuous longitudinal threads which remain distinct to the larger end the intervals soon acquire two to four finer threads which never become as conspicuous as the primary ribs.
The notch is not present on the truncated apex of the only specimen before me.
Length 33 mm. width 3.2 mm.
GASTROPODA.
The Fusus jnississipicnsis of Conrad is a Latirus allied to jyrotractus having the columellar Jolds evident though rather feeble.
It differs in the entirely rounded outline of the whorls there being no wide double band or collar below the suture as in that species.
It is moderately abundant in the upper marls.
Fusus vicksburgensis is very rare and alsf occurs solely in the upper marls.
My specimens are all fragmentary partially decorticated and decomposed.
Its broad flat lyra easily distinguish it and the nucleus and nepionic whorls are also peculiar.
The Vicksburg type of Clavella differs from that of the Eocene horizons in having a small conoidal nucleus.
They are probably generically different.
As far as I have been able to discover there are at least two species in the Vicksburg both confined to the lower horizon.
There are several species of Pleurotoma in the Vicksbiirg and subadjacent horizons allied more or less closely to servata Con. and apparently neglected or overlooked hitherto in our literature but which can be distinguished readily by brief comparative descriptions.
In servata the nucleus is smooth elevated acute and of 3 or 4 whorls the last whorl gradually acquiring a few riblets which become by degrees the 7 or 8 large rounded ribs of the body whorls.
There is no appearance of a subcentral revolving carina on the whorl adjoining the nucleus and on each of the more recent whorls there are generally 3 coarse revolving lines thickened on the ribs with numerous very fine closeset intermediate threads all occupying about lower half of the whorl.
Just below the suture there is a conspicuous thickened collar immediately below which there is a deep revolving concavity the surface thence expanding to the uppermost of the coarse revolving lines the entire surface between the latter and the collar having fine subequal and rather closeset lines.
The aperture and canal together constitute about threesevenths of the total length of the shell.
Pleurotoma vicksburgensis n. sp.
This species occurs plentifully in the Vicksburgian beds accompanying servata and generally confounded with it.
It usually attained a a little larger size and stouter form and may be distinguished at once by the fact that the whorl immediately adjoining the nucleus has a strong revolving line below the middle thickened on the ribs and accompanied by a closeset smaller revolving line immediately above it.
The larger whorls generally acquire two other coarse though much smaller revolving lines one above and one below the two mentioned and also finer intermediate threads.
Just below the suture the elevated collar is not quite so prominent as in servata and instead of the abrupt concavity adjoining the surface is almost evenly concave and rapidly expanded to the system of coarse revolving lines referred to this surface being also finely evenly lyrate.
The nucleus is much shorter than in servata consisting of between two and three whorls and is not higher than wide.
The aperture and canal are nearly as in servata.
One of the larger specimens before me measiues 27 mm.
in length by 7 mm.
in width.
The double carina of the nepionic whorls remains throughout the most conspicuous feature of the revolving sculpture the lines becoming gradually more nearly equal and more widely spaced with the dilatations on the ribs much more pronounced than in servata the ribs also are much more broadly rounded than in that species and become obsolete in the posterior concave area of the whorls.
A specimen in the Conrad collection is marked servata var.
 it is deprived of the nucleus and adjoining whorls.
Both this species and servata occur also in the Lower Vicksburg but in slightly modified forms.
Pleurotoma oblivia n. sp.
This is a Red Bluff species somewhat allied to servata.
It resembles servata in general form and conformation of the nucleus nepionic whorls aperture and canal the elevated smooth nucleus of three or four whorls and nepionic spire whorls being formed in the same way but the ribs are narrower more strongly rounded much more elevated and only about six in number strongly marked throughout the length of the whorl and only becoming extinct at the rather fine sinuous collar just below the suture.
The revolving sculpture consists of eight or nine coarse lyriE more dilated on the ribs the first three less coarse and subequal those in anterior twothirds of the whorl generally with one fine thread intermediate.
Length 22 mm. width 6.5 mm.
It may be readily distinguished from servata by the fewer narrower and more elevated ribs more equal revolving lines throughout the length of the whorls and absence of any defined posterior flattened or concave area on the latter.
Pleurotoma evanesoens n. sp.
In the Jacksonian of the Kimbrel Beds outcropping on the Red River a few miles below Montgomery occurs another Pewrotoma rather closely resembling servata in general form but widely distinct in sculpture and even more elongate in form.
The nucleus is smooth rather higher than wide and has about three whorls the subsequent whorls mutually subsimilar each having scarcely six large though feebly elevated oblique ribs.
The collar below the suture is moderately wide but obtuse and low not sinuous and immediately below it the surface is feebly concave and moderately rapidly expanded to the middle where each whorl is obtusely tumid and prominent the surface thence gradually declivous anteriorly to the suture.
The low feeble oblique ribs become wholly extinct in the concavity occupying almost posterior half of each whorl.
The sculpture is very fine and feeble consisting of relatively broad but very feebly elevated flat revolving lyra which are very closeset and subequal mutually separated by a single very fine thread of similar character.
The entire sculpture is so feeble that it is very apt to be entirely effaced by water wearing.
Length of the largest of the three specimens before me 32 mm. width 8 mm.
On the part of the larger body whorls below the shoulder the revolving lyrae become more widely separated with three fine threads intermediate as a rule but the lyrae are always flattened and in more or less low relief.
Pleurotoma Mlgardi n. sp.
From the Jacksonian of Moody's Branch I have two species which appear to have been confounded with servata though differing radically therefrom in the structure of the nucleus.
One named as above is almost similar to servata in size form and in the number and form of the slightly oblique rounded ribs but has the raised revolving lines some eleven or twelve in number subequal in size among themselves and becoming only slightly larger on the anterior parts of the whorl.
The nucleus differs very radically from that of servata or ohlivia being small obtuse and composed of only one and a half to two whorls.
The canal also is decidedly shorter.
Length 16 mm. width 5 mm.
Pleurotoma coUaris n. sp.
This is the second species from Moody's Branch referred to under the preceding description.
It is stouter with a still shorter canal the aperture and canal together constituting about twofifths the entire length of the shell.
The nucleus is small obtuse and of about two whorls.
Body whorls about seven in number each with some seven or eight obtuse ribs and a wide and strongly elevated conspicuous collar just below the suture the upper sm'face of the collar declivous to the suture and having two closeset revolving striae tlie lower part acutely elevated.
The surface below the collar is deeply concave then rapidly expanding to the posterior of the three strong raised hues which occupy about anterior half of the whorl.
The concavity is marked with many very fine closeset revolving lines and the spaces between the three large lyrae referred to also have each about three fine lines.
Length 17 mm. width 6 mm.
Pleurotoma arnica n. sp.
Of the species allied to rotceelens and tenella there are several forms in the Red Bluff stratum.
One of these named as above is somewhat stout sculptured nearly like rotoedens excepting that the concave and rapidly expanded surface immediately below the sutural collar scarcely ever acquires more than about two fine threads which occupy its median parts while in rotadens there are numerous fine threads at this part of the larger whorls.
The nucleus in eimica is larger than  rotwdens and there are generally about three of its whorls covered with fine acutely raised riblets instead of about two whorls as in rotoedens.
The strongly elevated median revolving keel is similar to that of rotoedens and double but the nodules are coarser.
Length 14.5 mm. width 4.5 mm.
The corresponding dimensions of an equally wellgrown specimen that is of six body whorls of rotoedens from the Upper Vicksburg are 11 by 2.8 mm.
Arnica may be regarded as a probable ancestor of rotoedens.
Pleurotoma ancilla n. sp.
The archetype of tenella in the Red Bluff may be thus named.
It is nearly similar in form to tenella but smaller the nucleus large and well developed of nearly five whorls approximately the last two having nmnerous fine acute riblets it is higher than wide and acute.
The subsequent whorls have a broadly obtuse revolving prominence just below the middle which is closely ribbed the ribs longitudinal and rounded collar below the suture consisting of two approximate subequal and slightly uneven revolving lyrse  space between the collar and median ribbed tumidity moderately expanding and having three or four fine subequal lines just below the median tumidity there is a fine irregular line.
Aperture and canal together short scarcely more than a third the length of the shell.
Length 13 mm. width 4 mm.
The specimens measured has about six body whorls.
Pleurotoma plutonica n. sp.
Not rare in the Lower Vicksburg limestones.
This species is rather slender perfectly smooth and polished throughout with scarcely a trace of revolving sculpture except on the beak where there are some oblique widely spaced striae.
The nucleus is smooth acutely ogival higher than wide and of about four whorls.
The subsequent whorls have each about eight low rounded oblique ribs which become obsolete in a revolving concavity below the suture.
The first three or thereabouts of the body whorls have a rather pronounced though obtusely rounded swelling adjoining the suture beneath but this is gradually lost on the larger whorls these having but feeble traces of a raised band at the suture the latter being a very fine slightly sinuose and feebly impressed line.
The canal is well differentiated from the aperture and the two combined constitute about threesevenths of the total length of the shell.
Length 12 mm. width 3.7 mm.
Another specimen represented by the spire alone indicates that the species may attain a length of fully 15 mm.
or more.
There is no trace of this species in the upper marls.
Pleurotoma intacta n. sp.
Another species equally well defined may be named as above.
It is small moderately stout fusiform the aperture and canal which are not very strongly differentiated together constituting nearly half the entire length of the shell.
The nucleus is as wide as high consisting of about three whorls smooth but gradually acquiring the fine riblets which become the eight or nine rather narrow and subacutely elevated oblique ribs of the subsequent whorls the latter short about four in number in the largest specimen before me the ribs angular in profile from base to apex of the whorl with point of maximum elevation just below the middle of the length and becoming obsolete just below the pronounced uneven and closely duplex collar margining the suture beneath.
Each whorl has six or seven coarse subequal and closely approximate flattened or slightly convex lyrse those in lower half slightly coarser than the posterior three and that at the middle slightly thickened at the summits of the ribs.
Length of the largest in an extended series 7 mm. width 2. 5 mm.
This species occurs only in the upper marls at Vicksburg and is common.
PHANDELLA n. gen.
This genus occurs in the Upper Vicksburg marls and appears to have no closely allied living descendant although related perhaps to Daphnella.
The shell is minute and the animal apparently existed the greater part of its life in the nuclear stage there being no example which I have seen out of a considerable series collected possessing more than between one and two body whorls.
The nucleus is relatively large though evenly conical pointed consisting of from five to six whorls which are exquisitely sculptured in two systems of very minute lines crossing each other at an angle of about 45 producing an appearance very much like the engineturning frequently engraved upon a watch.
There are before me three species distinguishable among themselves by very clearly marked characters but at the present time I will only briefly outline the most abundant of the three which may be regarded as the type of the genus.
Phandella nepionica n. sp.
This species has about one and a half body whorls which are together about twice as long as the nucleus polished and completely devoid of revolving sculpture having however about ten sharply elevated longitudinal or slightly oblique ribs which become abruptly declivous posteriorly and obsolescent near the suture.
The nucleus has about five whorls the canal is rather short and there is a fine raised collar margining the suture beneath which line may also be observed to mutually separate the larger of the nuclear whorls.
Length 2.25 mm. width 1.2 mm.
Many specimens.
Drillia harmonica i.
sp.
A welldefined new species quite rare in the Lower Vicksburg and not yet found in the upper marls.
It is rather stout the spire apparently narrowing somewhat more rapidly toward apex.
Nucleus simple and composed of three or four whorls.
The subsequent whorls are rather short each with some eight or nine strongly marked rounded ribs longitudinal in direction or nearly so and generally in line from one whorl to the next they extend nearly throughout the length of the whorl becoming obsolete only in the narrow revolving concavity below the antesutural elevated collar which is rather thick and conspicuous and marked posteriorly with olie or two striae.
Each whorl has some seven or eight nearly equal revolving lyrse those near the middle mutually separated as a rule by a finer line.
The aperture is rather wide the canal very short the two together but little more than a third of the total length the callus near the posterior angle of the aperture tumid and conspicuous.
Length 11 mm. width 3.7 mm.
I had confounded this species with mississippiensis of Conrad until a recent inspection of the type of the latter shows that it is very different mississippiensis is very stout much larger with the revolving concavity below the sutural collar very wide constituting about half the entire length of the whorl  the short broadly rounded ribs are confined to anterior half of the whorls and are obsolete in the posterior concavity.
The specimen is somewhat waterworn so that the sculpture is not distinct but there are apparently revolving raised lines which distinguish the species at once from the smooth and otherwise very different ehoroides.
The type seems to be unique.
Scobinella pluriplicata n. sp.
In the genus Scobinella of Conrad it should be stated that the species occurring at Red Bluff is distinct from ccelata of the Upper Vicksburg marls and I would propose the above name for it.
This species is much larger than coelata with a relatively more elongate and less rapidly acuminate spire and differs also in sculpture.
In cnelata there is a broad flattened duplex collar extending from the suture anteriorly for about a fifth the length of the whorl the surface then concave to well below the middle generally with about three revolving lines at the bottom of the concavity the middle one of which is nodulose the surface from the concavity to the lower limit of the 18 whorl is more prominent flattened and divided into two coarsely nodose sections by a fine stria.
In pluriplicata the whorls are relatively much more elongate and from the suture for about onesixth of the length are flattened the next sixth of the length is occupied by a small concavity containing a nodulose line which is even more prominent than the preceding flattened collar the surface thence to the anterior limit of the whorl occupying fully twothirds of the length is still more elevated but flattened cj'lindrical and divided into about four nodose rings by three rather coarse equidistant revolving grooves.
The canal is more prolonged and more obconic than in coelata and the plications of the columella number some four to five.
Length of a specimen of about seven body whorls 35 mm. width 9.5 mm.
Length of a specimen of coelata of the same number of whorls 21 mm. width 6.5 mm.
Pluriplicata occurs also at Byram's Ferry.
The Lower Vicksburgian at Aicksljurg has not yet yielded a trace of the genus.
Scobinella famelica n. sp.
Very slender and elongate the aperture narrow scarcely at all wdder than the canal from which it is but feebly differentiated both together constituting but little more than a third of the total length of the shell.
The nucleus is rather small of about three whorls with its summit obtuse.
Sulsequent whorls each with a prominent double collar subjacent to the suture and a broad obtuse and strongly elevated revolving keel fully a third as wide as the length of the whorl and divided into two subequal rings by a revolving groove situated below the middle of the whorl  this duplex ring is obliquely and coarsely nodose.
In the concavity between the collar and the elevated keel there are two or three fine revolving lines the posterior of which is finely and more or less evenly nodulose.
The anterior margin is a fine line on a level with the duplex ring and separated therefrom by a narrow deep concavity.
Columella with six or seven rather unequal closeset oblique folds forming a slightly tumid columellar band as wide as the distance separating it from the posterior angle of the aperture.
Length about 25 mm. width 4.5 mm.
It occurs exclusively in the Upper Vicksburg marl and is rare.
Scobinella maoer n. sp.
Upper Vicksburg.
This species resembles the preceding in general form and sculpture.but has only two folds on the columella.
These folds are strong subequal and do not seem to be attended by any adventitious plicae.
This species is elongate and very slender the nucleus simple and of about three whorls.
Each of the subsequent whorls has a broad moderately elevated double collar subjacent to the suture and a strongly elevated obtuse and nodose double carina at a third of the length from the anterior margin the deeply concave intermediate surface having a single strongly beaded line along the middle and a few other very faint and obscurely irregular revolving threads.
The lower margin is moderately elevated the surface thence to the large double carina concave.
The spire before me consists of seven body whorls and is 10 mm.
in length and about 3.5 mm.
in width at base.
The remainder of the shell is missing it being very rare and represented thus far only by fragments.
The genus Scobinella of Conrad is probably vaUd but contains species having anywhere from two to six or seven columellar folds. They hold together very well in general type of sculpture and depart materially in a great many characters from Cordieria.
The genus Cordieria does not occur in the American Eocene fauna and there is considerable confusion in the literature concerning it.
Cossmann states that the first two of the species originally placed in Cordieria by Rouault are really Borsonia and assuming the third species as the type gives an illustration of a plesiotype which would bear considerable resemblance to Latirus were it not for the obsolete canal.
He also states that the embryo of Cordieria is paucispiral with subglobular apex which does not agree with our species such as hiconica plicata and ludoviciana and another genus may have to be made for these.
In Scobinella the sinus is well developed but in Cordieria and the American analogues named above it is very feeble so that on this ground as well as many others the association of Cordieria and Scobinella by Tryon was entirely unjustifiable.
In fact the Pleurotomid affinities of some of the forms assigned to Cordieria stand in.
need of fuller confirmation.
Turbinella perexilis of Conrad is a species having two strong columellar folds and is of uncertain relationship.
We do not appear to have the true Borsonia in the American fauna and Borsonia plenta of Harris Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1895 p. 63 cannot properly be referred to that genus.
Besides the species from Red Bluff and Vicksburg referred above to Scobinella this genus will include PL Eucheilodon reticulatoides Harris I.e. p. 63 from the Lower Claiborne of Texas.
The genus Eucheilodon as represented by crenocarinatum of Heilprin differs from Scobinella in the form of the nucleus this being very large probably indicating a slightly different line of descent.
 If Pleurotoma Moniliopsis elaborata Con. be included as I believe to be proper the genus will have also species without columellar folds as is the case with the genus Microdrillia to be described below.
MICRODRILLIA n. gen. A number of minute Pleurotomids including injans and cossmanni of Meyer and harrisi of Aldrich have been referred to by Cossmann under the namas Asthenotoma and Scobinella by Harris under Mangilia by Aldrich under Glyphostoma and by Meyer Vaughan and others under Pleurotoma in its broad sense.
They are all very small and characterized by a welldeveloped multispiral closely coiled embryo having one to three of its basal whorls costulate few body whorls which are wholly devoid of costse but spirally carinate the retral sinus relatively large circularly rounded and close to the suture the aperture oblique columella callous with or without plications and the canal short or subobsolete.
The genus Microdrillia differs from Asthenotoma to which cossmanni was referred by Cossmann in the structure of the embryo and especially in the position of the retral sinus which in Asthenotoma corresponds in its greatest depth with the median line or periphery of the whorls.
In fact there is only one American species known to me which can properly be assigned to Asthenotoma this being the PI.
texana of Gabb.
Microdrillia is much more closely related to Glyphostoma as suggested by Aldrich but is not at all allied to Mangilia.
It appears to have become wholly extinct in the Oligocene or Lower Miocene.
The species were numerous and individually abundant especially in the midEocene of the Lower Claiborne and those before me may be readily identified by the following table  Columella without folds 2 Columella with numerous rather widely and evenly spaced folds shell thick and heavy the base angulate not at all rostrate 8 2  Shell rhomboidal in profile thick and strong the anteperipheral part but little shorter than the entire portion behind the periphery of the body whorl revolving carinae very thick 3 Shell more elongate the anteperipheral part always much shorter than the postperipheral thinner and more delicate with relatively fine carina.
.
4 3  Embrj'o small evenly and broadly conical of three smooth and one finely costulate whorls  body whorls four in number each with three strong carinsp the lowermost carina first appearing generally on the second or third whorl lines of growth strongly marked cancellating the body whorl columella subumbilicate in the type.
Length 4.5 mm.
 width 2 mm.
Jacksonian Eocene of Moody's Brancli Miss. .
.
.
Plewotoma cossmanni Meyer weycri Coss.
Embryo similar in structure Iut much larger body whorls generally not more than three in number each with two very thick carinse columella not umbilicate in the specimens at hand lines of growth very fine scarcely noticeable.
Length 2.8 mm. width L4 mm.
Lower Claiborne Eocene.
Aesey Creek Lee Co. Tex solidula n. sp.
4  Peripheral carina at or above the middle of the wliorls  concave f asciolar surface simple or with one or two fine simple revolving threads 5 Peripheral carina below the middle of the whorls beak well defined and rapidly acuminate  f asciolar surface with a conspicuously beaded thread  embryo with two or tliree smooth and about two costulate whorls body whorls three or four in number 7 5  Base of the shell distinctly rostrate body whorls about four in number.
Form stout the spire whorls short about three times as wide as long with a subduplex subsutural collar and three other single carinre the fasciolar surface with two fine revolving threads beak short and broad lines of growth strongly marked embryo well developed as usual higher than wide ovulate at tip with three smooth and two costulate whorls.
Length 5.7 mm. width 2.3 mm.
Lignitic Eocene.
Wood's Bluff horizon rostrahda n. sp.
Base of the shell angularly acuminate not at all rostrate body wliorls variable but never exceeding four as far as knowni 6 6  Embryo as wide as high obtusely oval at tip with three smooth and two costulate whorls  subsequent whorls four in number each with one subsutural and three other equal carinte fasciolar surface without a revolving thread.
Length 5.6 mm. width 2.25 mm.
Lower Claiborne Eocene.
St. Maurice La robustula n. sp.
Embryo acutely conical scarcely higher than wide with three smooth and one costulate whorls  subsequent whorls not more than two in number in any of the three type specimens at hand similar to those of robustula but much more slender.
Length 2.3 mm. width 1 mm.
Lower Claiborne Eocene.
St. Maurice La minutissima n. sp.
Emljryo larger and much more complex evenly conical as wide as high with two small smooth whorls and three finely and closely costulate the latter strongly convex near their basal margins form rather stout whorls two in number in specimens at hand the fasciolar surface without a revolving thread.
Length 3.9 mm. width L5 mm.
Red Bhiff Eocene.
Pleurotoma infans Meyer Embryo nearly onehalf higher than wide subcylindrical rapidly pointed at tip with three smooth and nearly three coarsely costulate whorls the latter strongly and more medially convex subsequent whorls not exceeding four in number the fasciolar surface with a fine revolving thread  shell much more slender and elongate than in infcms.
Length of embryo alone L4 mm. width .8 mm.
Upper Vicksburg Oligocene vicksburgella n. sp.
7  Beaded thread below the middle of the fasciolar surface a finer simple thread between it and the subsutural carinule granulations of the beaded thread fine but distinct.
Length of a specimen of 3.5 body whorls 6.7 mm. widtl 2.6 mm.
Lower Claiborne Eocene.
St. Maurice La.
Pleurotoma lerchi Vgn 8  Spire more rapidly narrowed toward apex the embryo very small of three or four whorls the lowermost apparently costulate body whorls five to six in number each with subsutural and submedian coarse equal carinse and a third finer and less conspicuous between the latter and the base  concave fasciolar surface between the coarse carina with a fine median revolving thread lines of growth well marked as usual columella subumbilicate as a rule.
Length 6.5 mm. width 2.3 mm.
Lower Claiborne Eocene.
Moseley'.s Ferry Burleson Co. Tex aldrichieUa n. sp.
Spire evenly conically acuminate the body whorls never exceeding four in number embryo always larger and well developed 9 9  Revolving cariniB as in aldrichieUa very coarse fasciolar surface with a more or less distinct revolving thread embryo as wide as high conical acutelv pointed with three smooth and one costulate whorls shell stout and thick.
Length 5 mm. width 2 mm.
Lower Claiborne Eocene.
Elm Creek Lee Co. Tex Glyphostoma harrisi Aid.
Revolving carina
very much finer shell narrower and more slender embrj'o well developed higher than wide acutely conical with four smooth and one costulate whorls  fasciolar surface without a revolving thread  columella with four or more folds as usual in this group.
Length of specimen with three body whorls 4.5 mm. width 1.5 mm.
Lower Claiborne Eocene.
Elm and Vesey creeks Lee Co. Tex elongatida n.sp.
Revolving carinse fine as in elongatula the shell similarly slender differing in having two costulate embryonic whorls a fine revolving thread in the fasciolar surface and but two columellar folds body whorls but two in number in the type.
Length 2.3 mm. width 1 mm.
Red Bluff Eocene.
biplicatula n. sp.
A species which is strikingly similar to the Lower Claiborne harrisi was figured by Cossmann Essais Pal.
Comp. deux liv. PL VI fig 35 under the name Scobinella Imvi'plicata Gabb.
It is said to have been found at Jackson Miss. by Meyer but I have seen no plicate species from that horizon.
Cossmann's generic diagnosis of Scobinella is also drawn from this figured plesiotype and for this reason does not apply to the Scohinella of Conrad at all.
The true Iceviplicata is a Eucheilodon and is perfectly synonymous with reticulata Gabb The reticulatoides of Harris is however a true Scobinella the name being therefore somewhat unfortunate as Scobinella and Eucheilodon are amply distinct genera.
Under the description of Pleurotoma infans Geol.
Surv.
Ala. Bull.
I p. 75 Meyer refers to a Vicksburg form under the name var.
brevis.
This form is really not described at all and must be considered a list name it being simply stated that it is decidedly stouter than infans.
Even this statement however will not apply to the vicksburgella defined above which is more slender and elongate than infans and differs radically in the form and sculpture of the embryo Mr Harris states Bull.
Am.
Pal. Vol.
3 p 24 that the Glyphostoma harrisi of Aldrich is a synonym of infans Meyer.
This is incorrect as subsequently held by jIr Aldrich  the two species are not at all closely related.
COCHLESPIRELLA n. gen.
The Fusus nanus of Lea belongs to a genus widely different from Microdrillia but allied more closely to Cochlespira of Conrad.
The genus which will include also insignifica of Heilprin which is not the same as nanus according to some very accurate drawings of the types very kindly lent me by Mr. Aldrich and one or two undescribed Texan forms may take the above name.
Couus scopularis n. sp.
In the Red Bluff deposit there is a Conus about the size of the Vicksburgian alveatus but with a much more depressed spire and differing also in sculpture to a marked degree.
This species differs also from any of the forms found in the Jacksonian.
It is rather broadly obconic in form the exterior outhne of the body whorl straight becoming very broadly feebly arcuate toward the shoulder just below which there are some two or three closeset and very obsolete obliquely rugulose revolving striae.
The anterior oblique revolving striae are very feeble subobsolete and occupy lower third of the whorl.
The oblique anterior columellar fold is feeble.
Spire extremely short and flattened not more than an eighth or ninth as long as the body whorl the whorls flat each with five strong revolving lyrae separated by equally large grooves the arcuate lines of growth very distinct producing a beaded or scabrous appearance.
Length 28 mm. width 16.5 mm.
The fine striae on the face of the body whorl at the top and parallel to the acute shoulder angle distinguish this species at once from any in the adjacent horizons.
The species named Bursa mississippiensis by Conrad in the list of 1865 is in all probability the young of Triton conradianus Aid. of the Red Bluff horizon.
I have found this species in the Lower Vicksburg.
Bursa abbreviata is however a distinct species moderately abundant in the upper marl at Vicksburg to which it is confined as is also Distorsio crassidens.
Tritonopsis suhalveata of Conrad is confined to the Lower Vicksburgian like Bursa mississippiensis.
Phos macilentus n. sp.
Phos mississippiensis of Conrad occurs in both horizons at Vicksburg but does not occur at Red Bluff.
The species of the Red Bluff formation which has hitherto been confounded wdth it may take the name indicated.
It is much narrower and more elongate than mississippiensis.
The ribs are more numerous finer and not so nodulose at the points where they are crossed by the revolving sculpture.
The revolving lines are subequal among themselves finer than in mississippiensis and not so strongly alternating in size.
Length of a specimen of six body whorls 14 mm. width 4 mm.
P. mississippiensis seldom has more than five body whorls and an average specimen measures 13.5 mm.
by 5 mm.
Phos falsus n. sp.
I have before me a remarkable Red Bluff Phos which may be named falsus.
It is very much larger than macilentus though nearly as slender.
The nucleus is as in that species and mississippiensis consisting of four whorls the lowest of which is sculptured with very fine obliquely sigmoid riblets.
The body whorls are six in number with rather widely spaced longitudinal ribs some eight in number subequal among themselves on the first four whorls but then becoming very widely spaced and finally completely disappearing leaving the surface even the revolving lines are distinct but not very coarse and are mutually separated on the larger whorls by two or three fine closely spaced threads.
The type before me has a strong rounded varix on the sixth whorl and another forming the outer lip.
Length 19 mm. width 6 mm.
Metula fastidiosa n. sp.
In the Red Bluff bed there is an apparently undescribed Metula greatly resembling gracilis Johnson from the Lower Claiborne of Texas Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 75 PI.
II fig.
3.
This species which may be named as above has a smaller and more rapidly pointed spire than gracilis and has a greater number of varices.
The nucleus is simple smooth rather higher than wide ogivally pointed and of about three whorls the subsequent whorls five in number broadly evenly rounded at the sides in profile each with a feebly elevated fiattened varix relatively rather wide on which the longitudinal ribbing becomes obsolete and the revolving lyrse also obsolete except on the body whorl where they continue uninterruptedly over the varix which here becomes relatively still wider though so slightly elevated as to be scarcely definable.
The ribs are small and from varix to varix on the spire whorls about 32 in number on these whorls the revolving grooves are about 10 in number and with the exception of the two posterior and one finer anterior do not cross the ribs but appear as short excavated lines between them on the body whorl however all the grooves cross the ribs but are reduced in width on their summits  the ribs on the body whorl are also somewhat changed in character being notably less steep in crosssection on the side lying in the direction of the growth of the shell.
The columella is thickened anteriorly below the middle and the aperture and canal together are half as long as the shell.
Outer lip wdth a plicate band parallel with the edge at a short distance therefrom.
Length 15.5 mm. width about 6 mm.
Me tula fragilis n. sp.
This is apparently the direct descendant of fastkUosa in the Upper Vicksburg marl and is a much larger species with more numerous and relatively much finer and more closeset ribs it is very thin and delicate in substance very rare and always occurs in a fragmentary condition.
From a fragment before me I am able to compute the diameter of the body whorl to be about 10 mm.
The longitudinal riblets are at least 90 in number and the revolving lines on the largest whorl of the spire about 20.
No varices can be seen on the fragments before me.
The revolving grooves are shallow those near the base and apex of the whorls broader and more thoroughly olDliterating the ribs.
The ribs are broadly arcuate longitudinally.
The length of the specimen at hand must have been at least 25 mm.
The shell walls are composed of three layers of which the inner very thin and the outer thicker are solid and amorphous in texture the two separated by a very thin layer of prismatic structure having the fibres perpendicular to the surface.
Olivella affluens n. sp.
There are two yery distinct species of Olivella occurring abundantly in the 'icksburg strata.
One of these which may be assumed to be the typical 7nississippiensis  has the nucleus small of very few whorls and the nucleal sutures obhterated.
The whorls of the spire are completely unexcavated along the anterior edge.
.
The other species named as above is as common as mississippiensis it is rather smaller the nucleus being however much larger very obtuse composed of about three whorls having the sutures all distinct and impressed.
Each whorl of the spire has a deep and clearly defined revolving groove at the lower margin which is entirely wanting in mississippiensis.
The anterior folds of the columella are less oblique than in that species.
Length of a moderately large specimen having four body whorls beside the nucleus 14.5 mm. width 5.7 mm.
The aperture is somewhat narrow and is rather less than twothirds the total length of the shell.
The differences between these two species are at least subgeneric.
It would seem to me that Fulgur spiniger and nochdatum of Conrad are distinct species and not mere varieties of one.
I have collected a number of specimens of spiniger and there is no marked variability to be perceived.
Spiniger is confined to the Upper Vicksbiirg marl while nodulatum has occurred thus far only in the Lower Mcksburg limestone.
The latter differs in both form and sculpture from spiniger but varies of course in the relative amount of shoulder exposed above the suture as is generally the case throughout the genus.
The form occurring at Red Bluff differs from spiniger in its larger size rather more elongated form feebler sculpture less strongly diffoientiated whorls of the spire and more feebly developed spines of the spire whorls also in usually having traces of a fine subobsolete remotely and minutely subnodulose line at some distance below the spinose shoulder line.
It may not be more than a subspecies of spiniger but resembles that species more closely than nodulatum from the intermediate beds constituting the Lower Vicksburg a case very similar to that before referred to under Mactra.
Lyria nestor n. subsp.
The Lyria misssisippiensis of Conrad moderately abundant in the Upper Vicksburg marl is represented in the Red Bluff bed b this form which must be regarded as at least subspecifically distinct.
It is much more elongate in outline than the Vicksburg species and is more distinctly sculptured.
The longitudinal ribbing is more obtusely rounded and less distinct.
The length of a moderately large specimen is about 43 mm. with a maximum width of 18 mm.
It is accurately figured by Dall Trans.
Wag.
Inst. Ill PI.
6 under the name Lyria costata Sowerby and in his opinion both this and the Vicksburg form are varieties of that European species.
The Vicksburg and Red Bluff forms are however distinctly differentiated in facies and each holds to its own type through very extended series without exhibiting much variability.
Conrad's type of Conomitra staminca is apparently unique as far as the Vicksburg strata are concerned and from the matrix that partially envelops it would appear to have come from the upper marl.
It is a small species about the size of the Claibornean fusoides and somewhat of the same form.
The revolving grooves are deep and do not cross the ribs thus forming short and very conspicuous excavated hues nearly as in Fusimitra cellulifera Conrad.
The species figured by Dr. Dall I.e. PL 4 fig.
2 is quite evidently distinct from siaminea and is a much larger species.
It also seems to be distinct from angulata Heilp.
The specimen figured by Dr. Dall has five body whorls and measures 15 mm.
in length.
A specimen of the true staminea recently lent me by Mr. Aldrich and found at Byram's Ferry having four body whorls measures only 8.5 mm.
in extreme length.
I have collected a number of specimens of M. vickshurgensis at Vicksburg and feel sure that this is also distinct from staminea having no suggestion of the peculiar deep coarse revolving sculpture of that species.
The Mitra 7nississippiensis of Conrad is a specimen of conquisita in which the revolving lyration covers the entire body whorl it is generally effaced on the upper parts of this whorl in halfgrown and older individuals but occasionally persists until rather late in the growth of the shell.
Millingtoni is a different species .
The Capulus occurring at Vicksburg is apparently different from americanus of the Jacksonian at least subspecifically.
It is extremely rare at Vicksburg and has been found thus far only in the upper marl .
March 3.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Seventeen persons present.
A paper entitled Studies in American ForficuHdse' by James A. G. Rehn was presented for publication.
March 10.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Seventeen persons present.
March 17.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Ten persons present.
The death of Lewis Woolman a member on the 13th inst. was announced.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication The Mutation of Hibiscus moscheutos L. by John W. Harshberger.
A Note on the Common Bottlenose Porpoise of the North Atlantic Tursiops truncatus Montagu by Frederick W. True.
Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna No.
YIII by Henry A. Pilsbry.
1903.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
285 March 24.
Edwin G. Conklin Ph.D. VicePresident in the Chair.
Nineteen persons present.
A paper entitled Life Colors of Pcecilia limantouri and Description of a new Heros from Mexico by Henry W. Fowler was presented for pubUcation.
The following minute on the death of Lewis Woolman was unanimously adopted The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia desires to place on record its appreciation of the loss it has sustained in the death of Lewis Woolman who since his election to membership in 1884 has manifested a constant interest in the wellbeing of the society.
His work in connection with the geology of New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania especially as illustrated by the boring of artesian wells formed a valuable addition to knowledge.
He was thorough and accurate in his methods while his intercourse with his fellowmembers was characterized by a hearty cheerfulness and sincerity.
He was active in promoting the interests of the Biological as well as those of the Mineralogical and Geological Section and during the latter months of his life he rendered service to the Academy as a member of the Committee on Accounts.
His memory will be held in grateful recollection.
March 31.
Charles Schaeffer M.D. in the Chair.
Ten persons present.
The death of William V. McKean a member on the 29th inst. was announced.
Charles Z.
Try on was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed THE VARIATIONS OF EUTSINIA IN THE PACIFIC SUBREGION BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN The portion of the Pacific coast of North America occupied by the garter snakes extends from about latitude 50 in British Columbia to the neighborhood of 33 in southern California and exhibits great variety of soil and climate especially in the extremes of dryness and humidity.
The annual rainfall at Puget Sound has reached a hundred and thirty inches while at Yuma in southeastern California the average is little more than three.
Under these circumstances and having in mind the ease with which color in reptiles is acted upon by external conditions of which there is reason to believe that moisture is one of the most active it is not surprising that color variation should reach a maximum in a group of snakes which through diversity of habit occupy practically every station open to their kind.
Many species and subspecies have been established from this region upon examples so few in number as to form an altogether inadequate foundation in a genus where the range of variation is as great as it is known to be in Eutcenio  or is known at least to all but those naturalists who estabhsh uniformity by the easy process of attaching a name to every difference without regard to its nature or its biological significance.
Efforts to bring these supposed forms into some sort of order have been made in late years by Mr. G. A. Boulenger Mr. John Van Denburgh and the present writer' but it must be admitted that the assignment of some intermediates has been accomplished in part b the exercise of that mode of judgment which has been termed the naturalist's instinct.
Some material now in my possession bears directly upon the questions of identity involved in E. elegans and E. infernalis and their interesting character has led me to review all the garter snakes of the region in question.
The list following contains the names of all the species and subspecies within my knowledge with the date of establishment and the  Eutwnia eques Reuss.
has been found in the peninsula of Lower California and others may yet be taken in tliat littleknown region.
 Catalogue of Snakes in British Museum Vol.
I p. 192 et seq.
1893.
 Occasional Papers California Academy of Sciences V p. 199 et seq.
1S97.
 Proceedings Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 1901 p. 18 et seq.
type locality which have been founded upon snakes belonging to the genus from this region or whose range has been extended to enter it.
Those admitted here are printed in capitals  Coluber parietalis Say 1823.
Missouri river near Council Bluffs.
Coluber infernalis Blain.
1835.
California.
Tropidonotus ordinoides B. and G. 1852.
Puget Sound.
Tropidonotus concinnus Hallow.
1852.
Oregon.
EuTNiA pickeringi B. and G. 1853.
Puget Sound.
EuTNiA LEPTOCEPHALA B. and G. 1853.
Puget Sound.
Eutcenia dorsalis B. and G. 1853.
Rio Grande Texas.
EuTNiA ELEGANS B. and G. 1853.
El Dorado county Cal.
EuTJENiA VAGRANS B. and G. 1853.
Cahfornia.
Tropidonotus trivittatus Hallow.
1853.
California.
Eutcenia couchi Kenn.
1857.
Pitt river Shasta county Cal.
Eutcenia atrata Kenn.
1860.
California.
Eutcenia cooperi Kenn.
1860.
Washington .
EuTNiA HAMMONDi Kcuu.
1860.
San Diego county Cal.
E. sirtalis tctratcenia Cope 1875.
Pitt river and Puget Sound.
Eutcenia henshawi Yarrow 1884.
Walla Walla Wash. EUT.ENIA BiscuTATA Cope 1883.
Klamath Lake Oregon.
E. elegans plutonia Cope 1892type of E. henshawi Yarr.
E. elegans brunnea Cope 1892.
Fort Bid well Cal.
E. elegans lineolata Cope 1892.
No definite type.
E. inferncdis inferncdis Cope 1892.
Fresno and San Francisco.
E. infernalis vidua Cope 1892types of E. atrata Kenn.
E. sirtalis trilineata Cope 1892.
Port Townsend Ore.
These names twentythree in number appear to me to be reducible to three species two of which present three forms each sufficient in number and constant enough in character or so associated with a restricted area of distribution as to compel recognition as subspecies or seven forms in all the special features of which are capable of being arranged in a key which will cover all cases but the few anomahes upon which individual judgment is required.
A.
 Scales in 21 rows  upper labials 8  a.
 Body moderately stout head and eye rather small posterior chinshields equal or very little longer than anterior E. elegans   Mr. Van Denburgh admits the same forms but like values are not attached to them in all cases.
Mr. Boulenger reduces them still further to five.
As the only purpose of this paper is to analyze the various type specimens no attempt is made to give references bejond tlie original descriptions.
a' .
 Usually 1 preocular Black with three light stripes or brown or red with stripes and spots distinct  no nuchal blotches  head smaller E. e. elegans.
Greenisholive stripes and spots not very distinct nuchal blotches often present ventrals often dark head larger E. e. vagrans.
h'.
 Usually 2 preoculars often 23 rows color hke vagrans or darker E. e. hiscutata.
b.
 Body slender posterior chinshields much longer than anterior brown usually without stripes spots small and irregular E. hammondi B.
 Scales in 19 rows upper labials 7 posterior chinshields much longer than anterior E. sirtalis  a.
 Body stout head moderately large Brown or black  upper row of spots often fused into a stripe  usually red on sides E.s.parietalis.
Usually black with three light stripes .
.
E.s.
pickeringi.
b.
 Body small  head and eye small  often 17 rows and 68 labials  color variable E.s.
leptocephala.
Eutaenia elegans.
Baird and Girard Catalogue of North American Serpents p. 34 1853.
This species has in nearly every case 8 upper labials and 21 rows of scales of which the outer is either smooth or very faintly keeled but an occasional example has 19 rows or in one form 23 and the labials are sometimes 7.
Lateral stripe on the second and third rows.
The head is small and delicately formed  the eye moderately small and the posterior chinshields are about equal to the anterior ones or very little longer.
The throat and chin arc almost invariably yellowish.
It is to be observed that two species found together in California E. elegans and E. sirtalis parietalis occa.sionally exhibit the scale and labial formula of the other and very rarely the former may have posterior chinshields as long as the shortest of the latter and a very similar color variety occurs in each but when elegans has 19 rows or 7 labials it may almost always be distinguished from any form of E. sirtalis ly its short hinder chinshields and from any but E. s. leptocephala by its small head and eye.
Three subspecies are to be admitted.
Eutsenia elegans elegans.
Eutania elegans B. and G. Cat.
No.
Am.
Serp. p. .34 18.53.
Tropidonotus trivittntus Hallow. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1853 p. 237.
E. elegans lineolata part Cope Proc.
U.
8.
Nat.
Mus. XIV p. 6.55 1892.
E. infernalis infernalis Cope .
c p. 657 not Coluber injernalis Blain..
Baird and Girard's type of E. elegans was almost black in color with the three hght stripes well defined and had 21 rows of scales their second specimen had 19 rows and the dorsal spots were visible against the dark ground.
Seven living garter snakes received at the Zoological Gardens of Philadelphia in May 1902 from a collector at Oakland Cal. throw much light upon the variations of this form.
Specimens a. b c d measuring from 270 to 290 mm.
in length coi respond in color to typical elegans the three pale yellow stripes being on a brownishblack ground so dark that the spots arc barel visible.
Tvvo have 21 dorsal rows and 8 upper labials one has them 21 and 7 one has 19 and S. The three others are of mature size and much significance.
Specimen e 733 mm.
long tail 175 has 19 rows of scales the outer weakly keeled and 8 labials.
Ventrals 163 subcaudals 87.
The whole dorsal color between the spots more or less of the outer row of scales and the entire center of the belly are bright red.
The spots are distinct and number about 94 in each row to the vent.
The dorsal stripe is orangeyellow and the laterals paler more buff but much marked with red.
The small parietal spots and those on the ends of the ventrals common in many species are present and the upper portion of the labial sutures are shghtly margined with dark shading.
The portion of the ventral surface not red is pale green.
This specimen is the most brilliant and beautiful Eutcenia I have ever seen.
Specimen  800 mm.
long tail 184 has 19 rows of scales the outer faintly keeled or smooth in places 8 upper labials which are yellowisholive slightly bordered with black.
Ventrals 168  subcaudals 72.
The dorsal stripe is bright yellow and the laterals red.
Body color dark brownishblack the upper row of spots being entirely obscured the lower row 84 in number showing as downward prolongations of the black from above and separated by not very distinct patches of red just above the lateral stripe.
This portion of the color pattern closely resembles some examples of E. s. parietalis.
The belly is yellowisholive in the center slightly marked with red the pattern of this part corresponding exactly to that colored red in e. The ends of the ventrals and the outer row of scales are olivebrown.
No parietal spots and no distinct spots on the ends of the ventrals but their bases are slightly dusky.
This snake is E. infernalis infernalis Cope.
Specimen g 880 mm.
long tail 210 has 21 rows the outer partly keeled and partly smooth and 8 upper labials.
Ventrals 167 subcaudals 72.
In pattern it is like e but the body color is mostly brown instead of red this last showing only on a single scale here and there 19 especially on the lateral stripe.
There are about 90 spots in each row the upper not very distinct.
The belly is pale olive with small spots on the ends of many ventrals.
No parietal spots and the labials very slightly margined.
All these specimens have the small fine head the short posterior chinshields and the yellow throat and chin of E elegans and notwithstanding their wide difference in color their specific unity is established by the fortunate fact that specimen g was a female.
gravid at the time of death and I removed from her thirteen young twelve of which are typical elegans in color being so dark that the spots are barely visible and corresponding exactly to specimens a. b c cL The thirteenth is also dark but when first taken from the mother showed red markings on the flanks like those of specimen .
This red has almost entirely disappeared after twelve weeks in spirits.
All of these young snakes have 21 rows of scales ten have 8 labials three have 7 on one side.
The temporals range from 123 to 231.
We have then unborn young exhibiting the colors of elegans B. and G. and infernalis infernalis Cope the one resembling the latter having the scales and labials of elegans contained in the oviducts of a female which differing from both in color departs in no other way from the features of elegans.
If the red which is a purely individual acquisition were omitted specimen g would come very close to E. e. lineolata Cope some of which are referable to the present subspecies and some to E. e. vagrans.
Trcpidonotus trivittatus Hallow is no more than a typical elegan.f with 19 rows.
E. e. elegans appears to occur only in California from Shastha in the north down to the San Bernardino moimtains beyond which it seems not to extend.
Eutaenia elegans vagrans.
Eutcenia vagrans B. and G. Cat.
No.
Am.
Serp. p. 35 1853.
 Eutoenia couchi Kenn. U. S. Pac.
R. R.
Surv. X Pt.
4 p. 10 1857.
Eutcenia henshawi Yarrow Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. VI p. 152 1884.
E. elegans plutonia Cope Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XIV p. 653 1892 and Rep. U. S. Nat.
Mu.s. 1898 p. 1035.
E. elegans hninnea Cope Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XIV p. 654 1892.
E. elegans lineolata part Cope I. c p. 655.
This form ranges over the higher portion of the great plains from whence it has penetrated through the valleys of the Snake and the Columbia rivers to the western coast.
It is the garter snake of the Sierras and the Rocky mountains.
I have taken it at 6000 feet eleva Eutwnia kennicotti Jan Arch.
Zool.
Anat.
and Phys. Ill 1865 p. 216 with 21 rows and 8 labials may belong here but the description is vague and the only locality given is northern United States.
tion in Montana and two of the Academy's specimens were collected by Dr. Henry Skinner at Sapello New Mexico at an altitude of 10000 feet.
The scutellation is similar to E. e. elegans but the body is on an average larger and of stouter build.
The head is larger and the eye relatively small.
The color is almost always greenish or light olive with the pale yellow stripes narrow not distinct and often encroached upon by the small and illdefined spots.
An occasional example is brown but vagrans notwithstanding its extensive range varies less than elegans.
Usually there is a pair of dark nuchal blotches and the ventrals are more or less clouded with dark slate.
While ordinary specimens are sufficiently distinct from elegans there are intermediates in the western portion of its range such as those called E. e. lineolata Cope which reduce elegans and vagrans to the rank of subspecies.
No examples of E. e. brunnea Cope are known but the two types collected at Fort Bidwell Cal.
These anomahes might almost as well be regarded as E. e. elegans but their robust build and the localit' whence they came incline me to refer them to the present form.
The type of E. couchi Kenn.
came from Pitt river Cal. three hundred miles north of the known limit of E. hammondi with which it has commonly been associated and I agree with Van Denburgh in regarding the specimen as an anomalous vagrans.
There does not seem to be any reason to consider Cope's tj'pe of E. .
plutonia from Walla Walla Washington as anything more than a melanistic vagrans.
It is to be observed that Yarrow had already given the name of E. henshawi to this specimen at the same time describing Cope's second example from western Arizona as E. vagrans plutonia.
Eutaenia elegans biscutata.
EutcBnia biscutata Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila. 1883 p. 21.
In western Oregon and Washington and especially in the humid northwestern portion of the last state E. e. vagrans is largely replaced by snakes generally similar but with a decided tendency toward melanism and having usually two or three preoculars and sometimes 23 rows of scales.
The types of E. biscutata were almost black and came from Klamath Lake Ore. the most easterly locality from which it has been known and where the rainfall is heavy.
The association of these tendencies with a restricted area of distribution seems to require that it shall be recognized as a subspecies of E. elegans.
Eutaenia sirtalis.
Coluber sirtalis L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X p. 222 1758.
The usual scutellation in this species is 19 rows and 7 upper labials a formula which is very constant in the east but in western forms 17 to 21 rows or 6 to 8 labials sometimes occur.
The lateral stripe is on the second and third rows.
Compared with E. elegans it is larger and stouter with a moderately large head.
The posterior chinshields are much longer than the anterior.
East of the Mississippi river red is rarely developed but I have seen one E.s.
sirtalis hom'lorth Carolina which showed much of that color upon the sides and another from Pennsylvania in my own collection is marked slightly with it on the flanks but from the great plains westward there is a general disposition in reptiles to develop red and it is more or less present in most subspecies of E. sirtalis from those parts.
Eutaenia sirtalis parietalisColuber parietalis Say Long's Exp.
to Rocky Mts. I p. 186 1823.
Coluber infernalis Blainville Nouv.
Ann.
Hist.
Nat. IV 1835 p. 291 PL XXVI fig.
3.
Tropidonotus concinnus Hallow. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila. 1852 p. 182.
Eutoenia dorsalis B. and G. Cat.
No.
Am.
Serp. p. 31 1853.
Eutcenia ordinoides B. and G. Z. c p. 33.
E. sirtalis tetratania Cope Fide Yarrow  LT. S. Geol.
Surv.
W. of 100th Mer. V p. 546 1875 and Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mas. XIV p. 664.
E. sirtalis trilineata part Cope Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XIV p. 665 1892.
E. s. parietalis has a range quite as wide as E. c. vagrans for while it is absent from Arizona and appears to be rare in Utah it extends farther to the east on the plains.
The scutellation is 19 rows and 7 labials but now and then it has S labials and more rarely 21 rows.
It is ordinarily dark brown with the spots more or less obscured and the lower row separated by red which shows on the skin and usuaUy on the scales in life though much of it quickly fades in spirits.
The small dark spots on the ends of the ventrals and the dark margins to the labials are either present or absent.
The belly is yellow various shades of slate or almost black in dark specimens.
The outer row of scales is often smooth but sometimes weakly keeled.
There is much difference in the amount and distribution of the red especially in those from the Pacific coast and there is a tendency toward melanism strongly marked in the moist region of Oregon and Washington.
In conformity with the law of color development in snakes this excess of pigment shows first upon the dorsal surface adjacent to the vertebral stripe sometimes obscuring part or the whole of the upper row of spots E. dorsalis  when it extends down far enough to reach the upper border of the lower row these are left as downward prolongations of the upper dark area with red markings Ijetween E. parietalis  when it extends to the lateral stripe all the spots are obliterated E. pickeringi.
A very few individuals show the bottom part of the lower row also obscured leaving a series of red spots above E. concinna  or the red has spread longitudinally forming a red stripe between two black ones E. s. tetraicBnia .
Of the above the few specimens of E. dorsalis came from the Rio Grande valley in New Mexico and Texas except one fugitive noted by Cope from Portland Ore. thirteen hundred miles away.
Of the three tetratcenia which Cope is able to name two in the U. S. National .Museum came from Pitt river Cal. while the third.
No.
6085 in the Academy's coUecrion from Puget Sound originally entered as concinna has the lower black stripe broken up into spots anteriorly.
A smaller snake in the same jar as this specimen and apparently collected with it is an ordinary parietalis.
Hallowell's type of Tropidonotus concin.nus No.
6324 Academy collection is also marked on the label tetratcenia'' by Cope.
All these specimens have now been fifty years in spirits.
The three concinna cited by Cope all came from western Oregon.
With the exception of E. s. pickeringi these selections of special cases in a physiological process appear to me quite arbitrary and if the correctness of the method is once admitted an indefinite number of others may as well be allowed.
Baird and Girard's type of Tropidonotus ordinoides' came from Puget Sound and the original description cannot be reconciled with tha't given of California specimens under the same name by these authors in their Catalogue of the following year.
The type was probably an E. s. leptocephala.
Those subsequently described had 1921 rows of scales and the chief difference from ordinary parietalis was that the lateral spots were reddishbrown instead of red.
A California example is figmed by Baird with the form of head and the long posterior chinshields of parictcdis and 8 labials but as the lastnamed species sometimes exhibits this number it seems safe to refer ordinoides here rather than to regard it with Cope as a subspecies of E. elegans.
E. infernalis inferncdis Cope has been shown to be E. e. elegans but Coluber infernalis Plain occupies a somewhat doubtful position through the insufficiency of the original description and plate.
Bocourt adds that it has 19 rows and 7 labials which is the common formula for ' Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1852 p. 176.
8 Pac.
R. R. Report PI.
XXVI fig.
3.
' Bull.
Soc.
Zool.
de France 1892 p. 40. parietalis while his figures of Blainville's specimen' suggest this species rather than elegans and as Cahfornia examples of both these forms sometimes exhibit the infernalis style of coloring I see no reason at present to regard Blainville's type as anything more than the present species.
Eutaenia sirtalis pickeringi.
Eutamia 'pickeringi B. and G. Cat.
No.
Am.
Serp. p. 27 1853.
E. sirtalis trilineata part Cope Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XIV p. 665 1892.
In the extreme west of Oregon and Washington and especially about Puget Sound a region of much moisture melanism reaches an extreme and fairly constant degree in E. s. 'pickeringi B. and G. and E. s. trilineata Cope the differences between which are trivial.
E. s. pickeringi seems to be entitled to rank as a wellmarked geographical form always so dark as to obscure the spots stripes usually narrow very distinct and variable in color occasionally a little red on the sides and the ventral surface always more or less dark sometimes entirely 11 ack.
Eutaenia sirtalis leptocephala.
tTropidonotus ordinoides B. and G. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.Phila.1852 p. 176.
Eidcenia leptocephala B. and G. Cat.
No.
Am.
Serp. p. 29 1S53.
Entania atrata and E. cooperi Kenn. Pac.
R. R.
Surv. XII Pt.
2 p. 296 1860.
E. infernalis vidua Cope Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XIV p. 658 1892.
This variable form is somewhat small in size and relatively stout the head and eye are notably smaller than in other subspecies of E. sirtalis and even more so than in E. e. elegans.
The rows of scales are 17 or 19theoutereithersmoothor keeled upper labials usually 7 but sometimes 6 er 8 preoculars occasionally 2 and in a few cases 3.
Posterior chinshields much longer than the anterior.
The color is olive greenish or blackishbrown the three light stripes variable in color and sometimes absent spots small and hardly to be seen in dark specimens  labials sometimes narrowly margined parietal spots present ventrals 139152 yellow greenish or dark slate.
Some individuals with 19 rows and 7 labials so nearly resemble certain phases of E. s. parietalis or E. s. pickeringi and in fact some eastern E. s. sirtalis that I cannot regard it as more than a subspecies occupying British Columbia western Washington and Oregon and northern California.
E. cooperi Kenn.
is clearly referable to this form.
It has already been pointed out that the type of Tropidonotus ordinoides B. and G. ' Miss.
Sci.
au Mexique etc. PI.
55 figs.
2 2a 2b. 
Cope's examples of trilineata from Fort Benton Montana are probably E. s. parietalis.
295 1852 was perhaps a leptocephala but the fact cannot now he verified and a mere possibihty should not be allowed to disturb existing nomenclature.
 E. injernalis vidua Cope was founded upon Kennicott's origmal specimens of E. atrata.
One of these is now No.
6359 original number 970 in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences and there is a second No.
6584 marked vidua in Cope's handwriting.
Both of these specimens are labeled San Francisco.
I have elsewhere stated2 that Cope's description is not accurate in details and have given my reasons for assigning these specimens to leptocephala.
Mr. Van Denburgh considers them toheE.e.
clegans and states that this color form has been found only on the coast slope of the peninsula f San Francisco and questions the occurrence of leptocephala in Cahfornia.
In consequence I have reexamined the two examples of vidua and am still inclined to refer them to leptocephcda leaving the geographical part of the problem for further investigation. In any event vidua would be no more than a synonym of atrata.
Eutaenia hammondi.
Eutwnia hammondi Kenn. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1860 p. 332.
Hammond's garter snake does not range north of Fresno county Cal. but extends southeastward into the plains of Arizona.
The scutellation is that of E. elegans but the body is slender the head is narrow and elongated and the posterior chinshields are much longer.
The color is grayish or olivebrown dorsal stripe narrow indistinct or absent the spots are always indistinct and sometimes absent though indicated by black dots on many scales.
Ventral surface yellowish often with dark bases to the scuta and at times clouded with slate toward the tail this usually forms a line along the sutures between the subcaudals.
Parietal.
spots and nuchal llotches present labials dark bordered and a more or less evident pale postoral crescent.
This form has been regarded by some authors including myself as a subspecies of E. elegans but further study of fresh material has satisfied me that it is distinct enough in character and geographical range to be admitted to specific rank  12 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1901 p. 30. .
'' There may be a doubt as to the exact localities where the specimens on which vidua was founded were collected.
Kennicott gave none in the original description of E. atrata but in a footnote Dr. Cooper the naturalist of the survey says California  The one in the Academy's collection is labeled ban lrancisco but there is also in the collection an undoubted leptocephala of about the same date bearing a like label.
San Francisco has always been the point at which all California interests center.
The only other name with which it has been confused is E. couchi Kenn. which has been shown to be in all probability an aberrant E.e.
vagrans.
The geographical relations of the species here discussed are as follows  E. e. elegans meets with E. e. vagrans and E. s. parieialis throughout its range.
At its southern extension it is overlapped by E. hamniondi and at its northern it touches E. s. Icptocephala.
E. e. vagrans meets E. hamnwndi in California and is in contact with E. s. parietalis almost everywhere except in Arizona although the latter does not appear to ascend as high in the mountains.
In the northwest it merges into E. e. hiscutata and reaches E. s. leptocephala.
On the plains it meets E. radix and in the southwest comes more or less in touch with E. marciana E. eques and perhaps E. 7negalops.
E. s. parietalis meets all of these except the last.
In the east it overlaps scattering examples of E. s. sirtalis and probably E. proxima.
In the far northwest it merges into E. s. leptocephala and E. s. pickeringi.
E. hammondi meets with E. marciana in the eastern part of its range in Arizona.
The connection between moisture and variability especially in the direction of color intensity may be profitably observed in these snakes.
More than a million square miles of the territory occupied by the widely ranging E. e. vagrans and E. s. parietalis lies east of the high mountain chains of the Pacific coast and has an annual rainfall of from 10 to 25 inches.
Over this vast expanse the characters of these two species are very constant and variation has contributed to the list of synonyms only E. dorsalis B. and G. in which melanism is in its earliest stage and the one specimen of E. henshawi Yarr.
E.
e. plutonia Cope from Walla Walla.
The region of great moisture with a rainfall of from 50 to over 100 inches occupies not more than a hundred thousand square miles extending from latitude 40 in northern California to British Columbia.
The type localities of the following five forms characterized by pronounced melanism and often an excess of red all fall within this restricted area E. ordinoides E. concinna E. pickeringi E. s. tetrcdetnia and E. s. trilineata.
In addition to these E. e. hiscutata and E. s. leptocephala found there also show marked tendencies to develop dark colors as well as instability in scutellation.
Five forms  E. infernalis Blain. E. i. inferncdis Cope E. i. vidua E. atrata and E. e. elegans  were described from the neighborhood of San Francisco where the actual rainfall does not exceed 25 inches but where much moisture is carried over the coast belt and up the river valleys by the persistent fogs which sweep in from the Pacific ocean.
The region occupied by E. hammondi is exceedingly dry with a rainfall of less than 10 inches and tliis species is relatively constant and is not known to show any tendency to melanism. ' That humidity in some way influences the metabolic processes which lead to pigmentation can hardly be doubted.
Temperature need scarcely be considered in the present case for the dry region extending from Arizona to nortliern Montana and to considerable elevations has a very great thermal range while the wet region is relatively equable.
There is a suggested connection between the large amount of uric acid produced by reptiles and the fact that the yellow and orange coloring matter from the wings of certain butterflies has yielded a substance closely related to uric acid but physiological chemistry is not yet competent to explain how these waste products are converted into pigments.
The liberty to indulge in the striking colors developed in the garter snakes of this region is partly due to the protection afforded by luxuriant vegetation and perhaps in some degree to the absence of the three snakeeating genera Spiloies Ophibohcs and Elaps.
A NEW SPECIES OF NYCTALEMON.
BY HENRY SKINNER.
Nyctalemon curvata f n. spPlate XIII.
Upper side.
Primaries dark smokybrown almost Ijlack.
The costa is crossed by a number of very narrow pale slatecolored lines which break up the ground color into spots.
A distinct white band or fascia crosses the wing from the costa to the interior margin this band commences on the costa 30 mm.
from the base of the wing measured along the costa it ends on the interior margin 34 mm.
from the base of the wing.
The band is 3 mm.
wide at the costa and gradually grows narrower.
Its white color ends before it reaches the exterior margin.
The iDand is distinctly divided into seven white spots by the dark nervures and it is markedly curved the concave side being inward.
There are no other markings except that the apices are slightly lighter in color.
Secondaries.
The wings are the same color as the primaries and are crossed by a band or fascia some shades lighter than the ground color of the wing from this toward the base are no markings.
Beyond the band toward the outer margin the wings are lighter in color and are marked with a long llack shade and a number of somewhat linear black markings.
The exterior margin is lroken into two small and one long point and there is also a long broad tail to the wing.
Commencing in the larger point is a black band about 2 mm.
wide and forming the edge of the wing and extending to the interior margin.
It crosses the larger tail alout 10 nnn.
from the ti.
leaving the latter white from where it crosses to the end.
Under side.
Primaries.
The ground color of the wings is much lighter the white band is the same as above except that it extends unbrokenly white to the exterior margin.
There is a black shade beyond the and on the apex side and numerous black somewhat linear markings  the tip of the wing is whitish.
There is also a black shade on the inner side of the band and the linear markings are also found toward the lase of the wing.
The secondaries are marked in the same general way and the land is distinctly white lut narrower than on the primaries.
It terminates in an irregular black bandlike spot which reaches the interior margin.
Expanse from body to apex of wing on one side 62 mm.
The very dark color the comparatively wide and very distinct curved white band serve to distinguish this species from the others in the genus.
DescrilDed from two specimens presented to the Acadeni of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia bv Prof. Levi W. Mengel.
They are from Tonga off Santo New Hebrides Occanica.
STUDIES IN AMERICAN FOIIFICULID.5.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
The material treated in the following pages is contained in the collection of the United States National Aluseiun.
The privilege of examining this series was secm'ed through the kindness of Mr. William  H. Ashmead Assistant Curator of Insects in that institution.
Family FORFICULID.
The general arrangement of the species under this family is according to the system used by De Bormans and Krauss. The scheme of classification recently proposed by Verhoeff has not been considered as the WTiter has made no investigations into the characters there brought into prominence.
Genus PYRAGRA Serville.
1S31.
Pyragra Serville Ann.
Sci.
Nat. XXII p. 34 Type P. fuscata Serville.
Pyragra fuscata Serville.
1831.
Pyragra fuscata Serville Ann.
Sci.
Nat. XXII p. 34.
Cayenne.
One female San Carlos Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M. The use of Dohrn's later name saussurci for this species appears unwarranted as Serville's specific name is based on a description which is fairly complete and perfectly apphcable to this form.
This species has been recorded from localities between south central Mexico Cordova and Atoyac and French Guiana.
Geuus ECHINOPSALIS De Bormans. 
1893.
Echinopsalis De Bormans Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. I p. 2.
Type E. guttata De Bormans.
1 Das Tierreich 11 Lieferung Forficulida
und Hemimeridse Berlin 1900.
2 Zoologischer Anzeiger XXV pp.
181208 and SitzungsBericht der Gesellschaft naivrforschender Freunde Berlin 1902 pp.
718.
Echinopsalis brevibractea n. sp.
Type cJimmature Motzorongo Vera Cruz Mexico.
January 1S92.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. This form apparently belongs to the genus Echinopsalis though not wholly agreeing with the generic diagnosis.
Difference from the generic characters is noticed in the longer third antenna
joint the subtruneate posterior margin of the pronotum the shorter anal segment and in the longer more attenuate forceps.
No close relationship exists with the only previously known species E. guttata De Bormans from Chontales Nicaragua.
Body of moderate length considerably depressed surface subscabrous covered with short stiff mostly erect hairs.
Head rather flat slightly narrower than posterior ddth of tlie pronotmn the posterior margin subemarginate centrally basal joint of the antennae inverted conoid shorter than the uniform cylindrical third joint fourth and succeeding joints beyond eleventh missing short and thick beadlike broader than long.
Pronotum subquadrate anterior margin broadly rounded the angles not at all apparent posterior margin subtruneate median sulcus well marked and extending the entire length of the pronotum lateral margins considerably raised.
Tegmina and dngs only partially developed but in such condition the former almost equal the pronotum in length.
Anal segment moderately deep over twice as wide as long very heavily hirsute.
Subgenital plate broad the apex gently rounded.
Forceps trigonal in section rather elongate parallel and unseparatecl the inner margins finely toothed this being stronger and more apparent basally apical portion moderately incurved crossed.
Femora rather robust uncurved tibiae moderately slender not equalling the femora in length.
Tarsi moderately compressed the first and third joints about equal in length.
General color woodbrown the limbs being mottled with touches of dirtyyellowish.
Measurements.
Total length approximately 9.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 2.5  Width of pronotiun 2.5  Length of anal segment 1.5  Length of forceps 3.5  Four specimens all from the type locality have been examined.
In one of these eighteen joints are present in the antennae twentj'two being credited to E. guttata this possibly being true of hrevibractca in the unbroken antennae.
Genus LABIDUEA Leach.
1815.
Lahidura Leach Edinburgh Encyc IX p.
118.
Labidura bidens Olivier.
1791.
Forficula bidem Ohvier Encyc.
Meth. Hist.
Nat. VI Pt.
II p. 466.
Jamaica.
Twelve specimens six males two females four specimens damaged and sex uncertain.
Bermuda.
U. S. N. M. damaged.
Cabanas Cuba.
June 2.
Palmer and Riley.
U. S. N. M. Guanajay Cuba.
April 30. .
Palmer and Riley.
U. S. N. M.  This name has recently been revived for the form occurring in the West Indies Mexico and Colombia.
De Bormans and Krauss place it as a synonym of pallipes Fabricius but as Kirby says the latter name ''is usually apphed to the dark form of L. riparia the types are lost and the insect cannot be identified till more specimens are received from its locahty the Cape Yerde Islands.
The specimens from Bermuda are badly damaged and are placed under this name with some uncertainty.
Genus PSALIS Serville.
1831.
Psalis Serville Ann.
Sci.
Xat. XXII p. 34.
Included P. americana Palisot and P. morhida Serville.
Psalis americana Palisot.
1817.
Forficula americana Palisot Ins.
Rec.
en Afr.
et Amer. p. 165 Orth. t. 14 fig.
1.
San Domingo.
Ten specimens nine males one female San Carlos Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N.
I.
This large and striking species has been recorded from locahties extending from Chontales.
Nicaragua to western Colombia and Venezuela and also from Cuba and Haiti.
In the mature specimens 6 in this series a shght variation is noticed in the internal margins of the forceps.
In four specimens these are slightlv extended basally and distinctly crenulate.
In two these parts are straight and with the crenulations hardly visible.
The immature speciiuens all males are very interesting and might easily be mistaken for members of the genus Anisolabis.
Two stages rather different in general appearance are represented in the series and are worthy of separate description.
One conclusion reached from a study of these specimens is that the immature forms possess lateral folds on the abdominal segments which practically disappear by the time the ad ult stage is re ached.
3 Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 7th ser. XI p. 66 January 1903.
Size medium 25 mm.
 body fusiform surface rather polished the abdomen and forceps finely punctate the whole sparsely beset with stiff bristles and the abdominal segments fringed with fine hairs.
Head considerably broader than the pronotum.
Pronotum slightly longer than broad the anterior margin subtruncate the posterior rotundate the median region bearing a shallow sulcation deepest anteriorly.
Mesoand metanotum with the tegmina and wings incompletely developed.
Abdomen rather broad the four anterior segments with the lateral folds but slightly developed.
Anal segments large subquadrate the posterior constriction being slight median sulcus slightly developed posteriorly.
Forceps of medium length robust triangular in section the right more curved and less hooked than the left and crossing the latter internal margins minutely undulate exhibiting no signs of true teeth.
Femora short and robust the greatest thickness being toward the base.
Tibiae slightly shorter than the femora in the median pair of limbs equal in the others.
General color blackishbrown clypeus labrum mandibles tibige and tarsal joints dirty yellow gamboge femora of the general color with an apical ring of dirty yellow.
Antenna
dullbrown with the first second thirteenth and fourteenth joints yellow.
Measurements.
Largest Average of three Specimen.
specimens.
Total length 25.0 mm.
22.7 mm.
Length of pronotum 3.2'' 28 Width of pronotum 3.0  26  Length of forceps 45  37 u Length of anal segment 3.1  2 7 Anterior width of anal segment ... 5.1  4.2  The other stage which represents a lower and more undeveloped type than that described above is represented in the series by a single specimen.
Size rather small 13.5 mm.
 body subfusiform the greatest width being abdominal surface moderately polished and with stiff bristles generally distributed the apical dorsal segments of the abdomen being margined with fine hairs which are also present on all the ventrals.
Head rather elongate broader than the pronotum.
Pronotum about as broad as long the anterior margin subtruncate the posterior rotundate median sulcus distinctly marked.
Mesonotum posteriorly truncate metanotum centrally emarginate.
Abdomen broad each dorsal segment except the apical three with the posterior n'largin bearing a series of folds or plaits which are generally disposed in rows of four on each side these being most numerous anteriorly and vanishing posteriorly.
Ventral surface of the abdomen wth the segments apically with small nodes somewhat like the folds of the dorsal surface but these being very irregularly distributed.
Such folds and nodes are in many cases set with stiff bristles.
Anal segment not very long rather broad the surface almost flat median sulcus very broad and shallow.
Forceps of medium length rather robust triangular in section the left exceeding the right in length internal margins not toothed almost straight.
Femora short and robust tibiae rather compressed heavy shorter than the femora in the posterior and median pairs equal in the anterior pair.
General color blackishbrown labrum portions of clypeus and mandibles tibise and tarsal joints dirty yellow gamboge femora of the general color becoming suffused with yellowish apically antennae woodbrown the apical portion of basal joint washed with dullyellowish.
Measurements.
Total length 13.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 2.0  Width of pronotum 2.0  Length of forceps 3.0  Length of anal segment 1.5  Anterior width of anal segment 2.7  Psalis pulchra n. .p.
Typec
 San Carlos Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
L'.
S. N. M. This species is apparently closest allied to P. americana and gagathina both of which very considerably surpass it in size and from which it differs in the more elongate pronotum the comparatively heavier forceps and different coloration.
Relationship appears to exist with P. rosenhergi Burr from Ecuador but pulchra may readily be separated by color as well as the nonpilose body.
Body of medium size for the genus  elongate fusiform  surface moderately polished.
Head broader than the pronotum antennae 15 to 16jointed third joint shorter than the basal fourth and fifth rather small and rounded sixth to eighth elongate increasing in size ninth to extremity equal to the eighth in size and shape  the apical portion of each segment being enlarged and of considerable greater size than the base.
Pronotum longer than broad and slightly constricted posteriorly anterior margin subtruncate the posterior roundly produced centrally lateral margins considerably deflected upward  median sulcus distinctly marked except at the extreme posterior margin which is strongly depressed and flattened a condition also found in the lateral margins.
Tegmina of considerable length reaching to the base of the posterior femora the anterior shoulders broadly rounded extremities subtruncate.
Exposed portions of the wings about half as long as the tegmina the posterior and external margins broadly rounded.
Aldomen with the lateral margins almost parallel the basal segments bearing on their margins minute nodes each of which gives rise to one or more bristles.
Anal segment deep subrectangulate in outhne median line hardly visible the apical section bearing between the bases of the branches of the forceps a transverse depression.
Subgenital plate triangular in outline apex broadly emarginate and provided with long soft hairs.
Forceps short and heavy not quite equal to half the exposed abdomen in length triangular in section lasally  apical portion strongly incurved  the right arm longer than and overlapping the left internal right edge finely crenulate a minute tooth being developed just before the base.
Femora moderately heavy compressed tibiae about equal to the femora in length third tarsal joint shorter than first the first and second joints heavily haired below second joint very small.
General color deep mahoganybrown becoming dirty yellow on the limbs and lower surface of the head and thorax.
Pronotum margined laterally with very duUyellowdsh.
Head reddishbrown.
Antennse with the two basal joints reddishbrown the tenth eleventh and part of the twelfth paleyellowish remainder of the general tint.
Tegmina bearing shoulder spots of stiawyellow.
Exposed wings with the basal half strawyellow.
Measurements.
Total length 19.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 2.5  Width of pronotum 2.0  Length of tegmina 4.5  Anterior width of anal segment 3.5  Length of anal segment 2.2  Length of forceps .
.
3.0  Genus ANISOLABIS Fieber.
1853.
Anisolabis Fieber Lotos III p. 257.
Included A .
tnaritima and mcesta.
Anisolabis annulipes H. Lucas.
1847.
Forjiccsila annulipes H. Lucas Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France 2e ser. V Bull. p. Ixxxiv.
Jardin des Plantes Paris  supposed to have been transported from North America.
One male Minatitlan Vera Cruz Mexico.
February 1 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. Anisolabis antoni Dohrn.
1864.
Forcinella Antoyii Dohrn Entom.
Zeitung Stettin XXV p. 289.
Venezuela.
Two females  Mexico.
Duges.
U. S. N. M. Minatitlan.
Vera Cruz Mexico.
February 1 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. These specimens measure 15 and 12.5 millimeters in total length.
This species has been recorded from San Luis Potosi Mexico Capetillo Guatemala  Chontales Nicaragua and Venezuela.
Genus LABIA Leach.
1815.
Labia Leach Edinburgh Encyc IX p.
118.
Labia guttata Scudder.
1876.
Labia guttata Scudder.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. XVIII.
p. 265.
Texas.
One female Orizaba Vera Cruz.
Mexico.
January 916 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. This specimen does not wholly agree with Scudder's description but still seems referable to this species.
Labia fiaviscuta n. sp.
Type 
 Orizaba Vera Cruz Mexico.
January 916 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. Apparently allied to L. arcuala Scudder but differing in the elongate pygidium the shorter exposed portion of the wings and the predominance of yellow instead of black on the pronotum.
From L. championi De Bormans the only other form to which it appears at all allied it can be immediately separated by the thirteenjointed antennae the shorter exposed portion of the wings and the narrower pygidium.
Body of very small size 5.5 mm.
 greatest width at the apical portion of the abdomen surface of the head and pronotum moderately polished abdomen and tegmina dull.
Antennae thirteenjointed the fourth and fifth joints much shorter and more beadlike than the apical segments.
Pronotum slightly longer than broad  anterior margin very broadly rounded posterior margin gently rounded laterals parallel median sulcus reduced to a slight groove on the posterior half.
Tegmina short not more than one and a half times as long as the pronotum but slightly extended laterally the shoulder angles well rounded apex subtruncate.
Exposed portion of the wng very small apparent only as the extreme tip and placed next the median suture.
Abdomen with welldeveloped side folds present on two of the median segments.
Anal segment and subgenital plate small transverse the apical margins 20 truncate.
Pygidium slightly longer than basal breadth diminishing in width apex truncate.
Forceps simple unarmed about equal to half the length of the abdomen basal halves of the arms subparallel apical halves bent at an angle and meeting together forming an acute angle.
General color brownishblack above reddishbrown below.
Pronotum wdth the anterior twothirds reddishorange posterior third brownishblack.
Antennae woodbrown with the two apical joints paleyelloash.
Limbs brownishorange.
Measurements.
Total length 5.5 mm.
Length of pronotum LO  Width of pronotum LO  Length of tegmina L2  Length of forceps LO  Labia rotundata Scudder.
1876.
Labia rotundata Scudder Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. XVIII p. 263.
Mexico.
One female Orizaba Vera Cruz Mexico.
January 916 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. This specimen exhibits one structural difference from the original description in that the posterior angles of the pronotum are rather narrowly rounded instead of very broadly rounded.
This species has been recorded from Mexico Guatemala City Aceytuno and Duenas Guatemala.
Genus SPARATTA Serville.
1839.
Sparatta Serville Orthoptres p. 51.
Type S. peJvimetra Serville.
Sparatta flavipennula n. sp.
Types c and 9  Motzorongo Vera Cruz Mexico.
January 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. Apparently allied to S. pelvimetra Serville but differing in the broader and shorter pygidium the shorter anal segment the unarmed and sublamellate inner edge of the forceps and different general coloration.
Relationship also appears to exist with S. pygidiata and semiruja Kirby but from the former it can be separated by the deeper anal segment the longer pygidium and strongly toothed forceps  and from semiruja by the same characters and the longer points to the forceps.
d not quite mature.
Size small body strongly depressed broadest in the abdominal region sparsely clothed with rather long bristles.
Head equal to the pronotum in width  antennae with the first and third joint subequal fourth joint subglobose sixth and succeeding segments present to eighth cyhndrical the fifth joint representing a transition between the two types.
Pronotura sHghtly longer than broad anterior section produced centrally the anterolateral angles being obtusely rounded posterior margin subtruncate greatest width of the pronotum across the anterior angles median sulcus very slight Anal segment transverse the depth not exceeding onethird the width posterior margin truncate median section with a longitudinal sulcation.
Pygidium triangular subconoid the apex truncate.
Forceps about equal to the abdomen in length parallel  apical regions incurved meeting but not lapping inner margins with a very slight lamellate edge on the basal twothirds this edge being crenulate and not dentate feubgenital plate transverse slightly emarginate centrally.
Femora robust very heavily developed.
Tibia shorter than the femora bowed. '
General color of the upper surface blackishbrown slightly pohshed head antennae forceps and limbs pale reddishbrown deepest in the color on the Umbs.
Under surface reddishbrown  the subgenital plate being of the same pale tint as the forceps.
9 .
Size medium body strongly depressed.
Head about equal to the pronotum in width antennae imperfect.
Pronotum longer than broad anterior portion produced centrally the anterolateral angles obtusely rounded posterior margin and posterolateral angles broadly rounded greatest width of pronotum between posterolateral angles  median sulcus slight obsolete posteriorly.
Tegmina half as long again as the ironotum  lateral margins parallel the shoulders rounded  apical portion taken as a unit rounded.
Exposed portions of wings about half as long as the tegmina rounded.
Anal segment tra'ns verse half as long again at anterior margin as deep contracted apical portion considerably narrower than basal.
Pygidium half as long again as basal width tapering apex truncate.
Forceps considerably less than the abdomen in length parallel apical portion moderately hookedinternal margins being a slight lamellate edge this edge being present on all but the apical fourth though subobsolete basally  basal internal section bearing a very distinct tooth.
Subgenital plate deep about half as broad again as long apical margin very broadly rounded.
General color of the upper surface blackishbrown slightly polished  antenna limbs anal segment and forceps reddishbrown deepest in color on the anal segment and forceps exposed portions of the wings paleyellowish lined along the median edges with brown.
Under surface reddishbrown.
1.5 1.5 1.1 2.5 Measurements.
 
Total length 7.5 mm.
l0 f Length of pronotmn '  Width of pronotmii ' u Length of anal segment 4  Length of forceps 15 An additional immature specimen from the type locahty was also examined.
Genus ANCISTROGASTER Stal.
1855.
Ancistrogaster Stal Ofv.
Kongl.Yet.
Akad.
Forh. XII p. 349.
Type A. luctuosus Stal.
Ancistrogaster tolteca Scudder.
1876.
Forficula tolteca Scudder Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. XVIII p. 261 Mexico.
Three males Orizaba Vera Cruz Mexico.
January 916 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. Previous records Orizaba and Atoyac Mexico and Coban Guatemala.
Ancistrogaster gulosa Scudder.
1876.
Ancistrogaster gulosa Scudder Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. XVIII p. 259.
Puebla Mexico.
Fifteen specimens eight males seven females Orizaba Vera Cruz Mexico.
January 916 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. Genus OPISTHOCOSMIA Dohru.
1865.
Opisthocosmia Dohrn Entom.
Zeituug Stettin XXVI p. 76.
Type By selection 0. eenturio Dohrn.
Opisthocosmia Sarcinatrix anomalia n. subg.
et sp.
Types d and 9  Turrialba and San Carlos Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M. This form appears to differ from all the other members of the genus Opisthocosmia in the forceps of the male being parallel throughout their entire length.
This as well as the peculiar structure of the subgenital plate has caused me to create a new subgenus for the reception of the species.
 Size medium  form rather slender and graceful  surface polished and furnished with long hairs.
Head rather broader than the pronotum interorbital region tumid and bearing two median longitudinal impressions eyes prominent ovate in outline antenna
with the basal joint elongate robust of greatest thickness in the.distal portion second joint very small less than onefifth the length of the first third and ourth joints of eqnal length which is about onethird that of basal ioin b yond the fourth joint the segments are subcyhndncal gradually le'ing in length the total number being twelve.
Pr subequal anterior margin truncate lateral margins subparaUel poSo broadly rounded fine of depression crossing the median fine posterior to the middle median line shallowly sulcate m the anterior haU ithtly carinate in the posterior half.
Tegmma broad shoulder prLne'nt narrowly rounded lateral margins subparalle  apical po Z very slightly arcuate.
Exposed portion o wings her dongat over halt as long as the tegmina apex narrowly rounded Abdomen up rin. basal segments with the lateral folds well kveloped Anal se'm transverse posterior margin truncate.
Subgenita plate th the postrolateral angles each produced into a recurved spimtom process which flank the lateral base of the forceps postenor margin roundly emarginate.
Forceps parallel simple ' internal borders strongly crenulodentate  surface supplied with long hremora and m. of subequal length the anterior femora considerably heavier than the median and posterior pair.
Tars with the third ioint heartshaped flattened.
 neral' color woodbrown the median portion o the pronotiun the marcins of the tegmina and exposed portions of the wings the aMomen forceps and antennal markings of a darker tint than the raMe'r of the body which is of a sienna tone.
Antenna with the CTeld tenth eleventh and twelfth dark the eighth partially so S the ninth has the basal portion dark the remainder being ttedium larger than the male form rather robust.
Abdomen expanded the greatest width being median.
Anal segment ILtr S bgenitll plate produced subtriangular.
Forceps practLX tte same fn structure as those of the male but more elongate Ceratcolor as in the male.
Antennae with the basal and apical portions of the first the second seventh and eighth joints dark.
Measurements.
 8.5 mm.
10.5 mm.
Total length 11 1.5  Length of pronotum 10 1.2  Width of pronotum 90  2.7  Length of tegmina 15 2.0  Length of forceps One additional female from Turrialba was also exammed.
Genus NEOLOBOPHORA Scudder.
1875.
Neolobophora Scudder Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. XVII p. 281.
Type N. hogotensis Scudder.
Neolobophora ruficeps Burmeister.
1838.
Forficula ruficeps Burmeister Handb.
der Entom. II p. 7.5.5.
Mexico.
Two specimens male and female Orizaba Vera Cruz Mexico.
January 916 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. The forceps of the female are slenderer than those figured by De Bormans. Genus APTERYGIDA Westwood.
1840.
Apterijgida Westwood Introd.
Class.
Ins.
Synop.
Gen. p. 44.
Type Forficula pedestris Bon.albipennis Meg.
Apterygida linearis Eschscholtz.
1822.
Forficula linearis Eschscholtz Entomographien I p. 81.
Sta.
Catharina Brazil.
Twentythree specimens fifteen males eight females Orizaba Vera Cruz Mexico.
January 916 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. El Guama Cuba March 6.
Palmer and Riley.
U. S. N. M. Bonito Province of Pernambuco Brazil.
A. Koebele on cotton.
U. S. N. M. Turrialba Piedras Negras and San Carlos Costa Rica.
Schikl and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M. This series of males exhibit considerable variation in the structure of the forceps in some cases these appendages being constricted centrally.
The representatives of this sex range in size from 15 to 20 mm.
in total length  in the females from 10 to 15 mm.
Apterygida californica Dohrn.
1865.
Forfi.cula Californica Dohrn Entom.
Zeitung Stettin XXVI p. 85.
California.
Two males  Orizaba Vera Cruz Mexico.
January 916 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. Bonito Province of Pernambuco Brazil.
A. Koebele on cotton.
IJU.
S. N. M. While tentatively allowing this form specific rank I am not at all satisfied that it is more than a mutation of linearis specimens examined being almost intermediate having the internal tooth reduced to a minimum.
 Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. I PI.
2 fig.
8.
The specimens above listed are rather smaller than any males in the series of linearis being 14 and 11 mm.
in total length.
The previous records for this species are from California northern Sonora and Teapa Tabasco Mexico.
Genus FORFICULA Linnaeus.
1758.
Forficula Linnseus Syst.
Nat. X ed. p. 423.
Type F. auricularia Linnaeus.
Forficula lugubria Dohm.
1862.
Forficula lugubris Dohrn Entom.
Zeitung Stettin XXIV p. 230 Cordova Mexico.
Eleven specimens four males seven females Orizaba Vera Cruz Mexico.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. These specimens differ from the original description in their more reddish coloration.
The previous records for this species cover from Durango Mexico to Valladolid Yucatan and Vera Paz Guatemala.
Forficula metrica n. sp.
Typed Orizaba Vera Cruz Mexico.
January 916 1892.
H.
Osborn.
U. S. N. M. Closely aUied to F. lugubris Dohrn but differing in the longer forceps which also bear an elongate low ridge on their internal upper surface instead of a comparatively high rounded projection as in lugubris.
Size medium form rather robust surface glabrous sparsely supplied with short hairs.
Head about equal to the pronotum in width interspace between the eyes rather tumid antennae with but six joints present the basal one moderately robust the third to sixth of simple form slightly increasing in length distally.
Pronotum slightly broader than long anterior border truncate lateral borders slightly arcuate the posterior subtruncate the posterolateral angles very broadly rounded  line of depression but slightly marked and crossing about the middle median hne shallowly sulcate anteriorly narrowly carinate posteriorly.
Elytra of moderate width shoulder well rounded and not at all prominent lateral margins parallel posterior margin subtruncate.
Exposed portion of wings half as long as the tegmina rounded.
Abdomen with the median section considerably expanded two median segments with the lateral folds developed the posterior the heavier.
Anal segment transverse the posterior margin subarcuate.
Subgenital plate broadly triangular the apex truncate.
Forceps almost equal to the remainder of the body in length  the basal fourth parallel depressed and bearing a lamellate ridge along the internal margin apical threefourths arcuate unarmed.
Pygidium very short subacuminate.
Median and posterior limbs with the femora and tibiae of subequal length anterior limbs with the tibiae distinctly exceeding the femora.
General color darkbrown antennae and limbs gambogeyellow.
Measurements.
Total length 17.0 mm.
Length of pronotum 1.7  Width of pronotum 2.0  Length of tegmina 3.0  Length of anal segment 1.0  Anterior width of of anal segment 2.0  Length of forceps 7.5  1903.
A NOTE ON THE COMMON BOTTLENOSED PORPOISE OF THE NORTH ATLANTIC TURSIOPS TRUNCATUS Montagu.
BY FREDERICK W. TRUE.
The common Tursiops of the North Atlantic is generally known m scientific parlance as Tursiops tursio Fabricius taking its specific name from the Delphinus tursio of Fabriciiis.
During a recent study of Fabricius' species I became convinced that whatever his D. tursio might be it was not the bottlenosed porpoise so common on the Atlantic coast of the United States.
The original description by Fabricius has been learnedly discussed by Eschricht Holboll Robert Brown and others with the view of determining if possible what it really represents but the principal concern here is to determine what it does not represent.
After describing the head of his D. tursio Fabricius proceeds as follows Teeth in both jaws distant with obtuse apex as in Delphinus albicans Delphinapterus leucas but larger.
Body very thick  as in Boops i.e. humpback whale and equal with the young of the latter.
Now the teeth of the common bottlenosed porpoise are not far apart and are acute except in old individuals and are smaller than those of Delphinapterus.
But most significant of all is the remark that the body equals that of the voung of the humpback whale.
The young of this whale has a length of from 14 to 18 feet at UrtK which proportions are never reached by the adult bottlenosed porpoise.
Taking these facts into consideration it would seem out of the question to apply Fabricius' name to our common porpoise.
The Greenlandic name reported by Fabricius for his species was Ncsarnak.
Eschricht states that this word means simply resembhng the Nisa.
msa is a name for porpoise adopted by the Greenlanders from the Scandinavian colonists. Capt.
Holboll had previously stated that the natives appeared to designate the blackfish Glohicephala by this name but certainly not the porpoise currently known as D. tursio. In 1868 Robert Brown in treating of the cetaceans of Greenland remarked under the head of Glo hicephala There seems httle doubt 1 Fabricius Fauna Groenlandica 1780 p. 49.
2 Ann.
Sci.
Nat. 5e ser. ZooL I 1864 p. 209 3 Holboll in Eschricht's Untermch.
iiher nord.
nallthiere 1849 p. 190. that this is the Delphinus tursio of Fabricius as the Eskimo name Nesarnak is applied to the present animal.
Finally to clinch the matter he states that Montagu's Delphinus truncatus i.e. the bottlenosed porpoise has never been fomid in Davis Strait.
' I am unable to find reference to any Greenland specimens of Twsiops in the museums of Europe and there are none in the U. S. National Museum.
The correct name for the bottlenosed porpoise is probably Tursiops truncatus Montagu from the Delphinus truncatus described by Montagu in 1821. The specific name truncatus has been employed from time to time by various systematists including J. E. Gray but Beddard and other recent compilers have generally made use of the inapplicable tursio.
There is a possibility that the Delphinus siculus of Rafinesque described in 1810 is the same as Tursiops truncatus in wliich case siculus would have priority but Rafinesque's description is so insufficient that there will probably always be a difference of opinion as to the identity of his species.
Under the circumstances it seems unwise to give it serious consideration.
Rafinesque's description translated is as follows Delphinus siculus.
Body oblong attenuated posteriorly bluish above white below rostrum short obtuse teeth equally obtuse.
Remarks This dolphin is called ' Fera ' in Sicily and has much affinity with Delphinus feres of Bonnaterre but that is black and has the teeth unequal alternately longer and shorter.
Both differ from D. phocena and D. delphis which have the teeth acute and the last the rostrum also.
 Later writers on the fauna of Sicily so far as I have observed do not mention the fera among the species of porpoises but Cams states that the common porpoise or dolphin Delphinus delphis is known to the Sicilians as fera comune so that there is a probability that Tursiops truncatus might be known as fera.
The Delphinus feres of Bonnaterre is certainly not the same as Tursiops truncatus as the skeleton of one was 14 feet long the skull 22 inches long and 17 inches broad the total number of teeth but 40 and the skin entirely black.
It was probably a species of Glohicephala.
 Arctic Manual 1875 pp.
9192 from P. Z. S. 1868 with additions and corrections.
 Montagu Geo. Description of a Species of Delphinus which appears to be New Mem.
Wernerian Soc.
Nat.
Hist. 3 1821 pp.
7582 1 PL  RapinesqueSchmaltz C. S. Caratteri eri di alcuni nuovi gen. et sp.
anim.
et piant.
delta Sicilia 1810 p. 5.
ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNANo.
VIII.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Several new forms of Clausilia have been detected by Mr. Hirase since the pubhcation of No.
VII of this series. They are chiefly from Shikoku Island and all belong to groups already well represented in the same regions.
A single species herein described from Sado is the first Clausilia to be made known from that island.
Section HEMIPHiEDUSA Bttg.
Group of C.
awajiensis.
Clausilia sadoensis n. sp.
Pi.
XIV figs.
6 7 8 9 10.
Shell slender attenuate above brown.
Surface somewhat glossy finely striate paler and smoother above hardly more coarsely striate on the last whorl.
Whorls 10 to 11 convex the last compressed laterally and having a rounded ridge or varix behind the basal and outer lips.
Aperture small peristome white reflexed continuous the parietal margin erect and free.
Superior lamella compressed marginal continuous with the spiral lamella or interrupted.
Spiral lamella short not quite reaching the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella deeply receding straightened within as long as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumella lamellar emerging but weak.
Principal phca short laterodorsal.
Upper palatal plica short in the middle joined to the long nearly straight lunella which curves inward slightly toward the lower end.
Length 15.5 to 16 diam.
3.5 mm.
Length 14 diam.
3.5 mm.
Clausilium long parallelsided rounded apically deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament figs.
8 9.
Misakimura Sado.
Types No.
84394 A. N. S. P. from No.
993 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Closely related to C. ischna especially to the variation of that species which I called var.
neptis but C. sadoensis differs in the stronger ridge behind the hp barely indicated or not perceptible in C. ischna and in having the spiral and inferior lamellae of equal length inside while in 1 These Proceedings for 1902 pp.
517533. ischna and neptis the spiral lamella penetrates decidedly farther than the inferior lamella.
Clausilia shikokuensis var.
inokuchiensis nov.
Smaller than shikokuensis orangebrown whorls 9 the early ones attenuate.
Length 13 diam.
3.2 mm.
Inokuchimura Tosa No.
84391 A. N. S. P. from Xo.
506c of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A small reddish form very solid and strong but structurally like the larger brown C. shikokuensis.
Clausilia sus n. sp.
PI.
XIV figs.
l. 2 3 4.
5.
Shell quite obesely fusiform attenuate above orangebrown solid and strong somewhat glossy finely striate.
Whorls 8 moderately convex the last compressed laterally.
Aperture only shghtly obhque the peristome expanded and reflexed somewhat thickened orangebrown or whitish a little emarginate at the .position of the superior lamella.
Superior lamella compressed subvertical and marginal continuous with the spiral lameha which penetrates to a point above the superior lamella.
Inferior lamella deeply receding thick below penetrating as deeply as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella wholly immersed or very weakly emerging.
Principal plica visible deep in the throat entering to a lateral position.
Upper palatal plica very short and small almost obsolete.
Lunella strong and a little curved inward below very weak and low above where it connects with the middle of the upper palatal plica.
Length 11.5 diam.
3.7 mm.
Length 11 diam.
3.5 mm.
Clausihum PI.
XIV figs.
2 3 parallelsided thin and acute at the apex excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Muya Awa Shikoku Island.
Types Xo.
84393 A. X. S. P. from Xo.
1007 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The obese shape of the shell and shghtly curved lunella very strong below and weak above are characteristic and the acuminate acute apex of the clausihum equally so.
Some specimens are less swollen length 12 diam.
3.3 mm.
It is not closely related to any other species I have seen but groups wdth C. shikokuensis.
Group of C.
validiuscula.
Clausilia aratorum n. sp.
PI.
XIV figs.
15 16 17 18.
Shell small slender and thin light brown and slightly transparent.
Surface glossy coarsely sculptured with strong regular straight striae.
Apical whorls smooth rather large.
Whorls 9 somewhat convex the last somewhat compressed very shortly projecting in front.
Aperture shghtly obHciue the peristome continuous narrowly reflexed but little thickened.
Superior lamella marginal thin and compressed separated from the spiral lamella which extends inwanl to the middle of the front side.
Inferior lamella deeply receding thin and straightly ascending wuthin penetrating deeper than the spiral lamella.
vSubcolumellar lamella deeply immersed.
Principal plica hardly a third of a whorl long laterodorsal.
Upper palatal plica short and low a low short nearly straight lunella connected with it.
Length 9.5 diam.
2 mm.
Length 8.5 diam.
1.8 mm.
Clausilium long and narrow rounded distall excavated on the columellar side of the filament.
It is very similar to that of C. cenea but tapers less distally figs.
17 18.
Shimohanyama Tosa Shikoku Island.
Types No.
84438 A. N. 8.
P. from No.
1013 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This small thin ribstriate species seems by its palatal armature to be related somewhat to C. micropeas but in all other respects it resembles the slightly larger C. cenea which was found with it.
Both may be more nearly related to C. tosana than to other described species.
The lunella in C. aratorum is very weak except close to the upper palatal plica where it becomes stronger and in some shells only this stronger portion is present making with the plica an irregularly triangular callous without the extension downward shown in the figure.
I can see no trace of a lower palatal plica.
The subcolumellar lamella has no spiral extension within on the ventral side of the penult whorl parallel to the spiral and inferior lamellae in either this species or C. a'nea.
Clausilia senea n. sp.
PL XIV figs.
11 12 13 H. Shell slender fusiform brown with a bronzed luster the surface closely stnjngly striate.
Whorls 9J convex the last somewhat compressed laterally.
Aperture slightly oblique piriform the peristome thin free expanded and slightly reflexed somewhat emarginate above.
Superior lamella thin compressed vertical almost separated from the spiral lamella which penetrates to the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella deeply receding thin and straightly ascending within as long as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella deeply immersed.
Principal plica short dorsolateral.
Upper and lower palatal plicae short parallel connected by a low ridge upon which there are three low tubercles.
Length 12.5 diam.
2.5 mm.
Length 11 diam.
2.3 mm.
Claiisilium PI.
XIV figs.
11 12 long and narrow widest and projecting a little on each side near the filament tapering distally  excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Shimohanyama Tosa Shikoku.
Types No.
84392 A. N. S. P. from No.
1014 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Similar to C. aratorum in sculpture aperture and lamellre but having a distinct lower palatal plica and a low lunella upon which several low plicae are seen in this respect resembling C. tosana.
The latter is a more finely striate shell with the last whorl projecting more in front and the clausilium of a different shape.
Group of C.
'platyauchen.
Clausilia platyderula nsp.
Shell similar to C. platydera but much smaller brown finely and sharply striate.
Superior lamella compressed marginal continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates past the ventral side.
The inferior lamella penetrates equally far.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges at least slightly.
The lunella is like that of platydera.
Length 17 diam.
3.8 mm.
Length 15 diam.
3.3 mm.
Aki Tosa Shikoku Island.
Types No.
84443 A. N. S. P. from No.
434d of Mr. Hirase's collection.
It will be figured in a general review of the species of the platyauchen group in preparation.
Section TYRANNOPH.EDUSA Pils.
Clausilia bilabrata var.
tosaensis nov. A small form with the shell very strong the spire entire and the aperture comparatively small its greatest length contained 4 times in that of the shell  superior and spiral lamellae not united or but weakly so.
Whorls about 12.
Length 20 diam.
4.3 to 4.8 mm.
Shiujomura Tosa Types No.
84378 A. N. S. P. from No.
1012 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Section STEREOPHiEDUSA Bttg.
Clausilia ecMgoensis n. sp.
Shell wide below rapidly tapering upward attenuate near the apex several early whorls hardly increasing in diameter making the outlines concave above dark chestnut colored yellow or paler Ijelow the suture.
Surface very glossy sculptured with coarse oblique ribs narrower than their intervals becoming finer and then disappearing on the early whorls the intervals between the ribs more or less crinkled.
Whorls 11 moderately convex the last half of the last whorl flattened and compressed rounded beneath.
Suture marked with a fine white line.
Aperture nearly vertical dark inside the peristome white narrowly reflexed.
Superior lamella small and low narrow not continuous with the spiral lamella barely reaching the margin or not reaching it.
Spiral lamella short not quite reaching the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella forming a strong fold in the aperture becoming subhorizontal strongly spiral within a little longer than the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella barely emerging or immersed.
Principal plica quite short laterodorsal.
Upper palatal plica lateral short.
Lower palatal plica shorter oblique.
No lunella.
Length 28.7 diam.
7.78 mm.
Clausilium wide thickened and somewhat angular at the apex somewhat excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Myokozan Echigo.
Types No.
84444 A. N. S. P. from No.
986 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Belonging to the C. japonica group this species seems well distinguished by its robust shape and very strong sculpture.
It will be figured with the other species of the japonica group of Stcrcophadusaj in a revision of them now in preparation.
Clausilia japonica var.
perstriata nov.
Similar to japonica except in sculpture the surface being strongly deeply and closely ribstriate.
Kumanogongen Echigo.
Types No.
84376 A. N. S. P. from No.
986a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Explanation of Plate XIV.
Figs.
1 2 3 4.
 Clausilia sus n. sp.
Typical form.
Fig.
5.
 Clausilia sus a more attenuate variation occurring with the preceding.
Figs.
610.
 Clausilia sadoensis n. sp.
Figs.
1114.
 Clausilia cenea n. sp.
Figs.
1518.
 Clausilia aratorum n. sp.
LIFE COLORS OF PffiCILIA LIMANTOURI AND DESCRIPTION OF A NEW HEROS FROM MEXICO.
BY HENKY W. FOWLER.
The Academy has received a small collection of fishes from Tamaiilipas Mexico.
They were secured January 16 by Mr. S. N. Rhoads while on his recent visit to Mexico in the warm waters of the Victoria river near Victoria.
This is a small stream tributary of the Rio Soto la Marina at the foothills of the Sierra Madre Mountains in western Tamaulipas.
The material is in excellent condition so that it is possible to give the hfe colors of the Poecilia which were unknown.
PCECILIID.
1.
Poecilia limantouri Jordan and Snyder.
1900.
Poecilia limantouri Jordan and Snyder Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm. p. 129 fig.
10 Rio Tamesoe near Tampico Tamaulipas Mexico Coll.
J. O. Snyder No.
6165 L. Stanford Jr. Univ.
Mus..
Color in alcohol of adult male.
Deep olivaceous above and becoming paler where it extends down along the middle of the side.
Posteriorly the dark upper color extends lower.
Each scale on the upper surface margined with darker and the side of the body sprinkled with diffuse dusky specks.
Chin and jaws dusky.
Lower surface of the head cadmiumyellow burnished with brassyorange and then becoming whitish below.
Cheek and lower opercle marked with diffuse dusky specks.
Abdomen and lower half of the lody pale orange becoming whitish below and grayish posteriorly.
Five or six longitudinal rows of bright orange spots running along the side the uppermost following the lateral line and the others parallel.
Dorsal with its basal half dark the rays deep gray and the membranes black.
Outer jortion of the dorsal broadly bright orange.
Caudal dark for twothirds its basal portion the median basal scales more or less silvery gray and then a broad black transverse median band formed by the black membranes the rays grayish.
Outer portion of the caudal broadly deep orange.
Pectoral very dilute brown the base obscurely orange and then a ale slaty blotch.
Ventrals and anal dilute orange.
Iris deep brown.
Considerable ariation occurs many examples having as many as a 1 c A 10 CRAWLEY ON GREGARINES.
PLATE 11.
CRAvVLEY ON GREGARINES.
PROC.
NAT.
SCI.
PHILA.
1903.
PLATE III.
CRAWLEY ON GREGARINES.
PLATE IV.
MONTGOMERY ON HABITS OF SPIDERS.
PLATE V. MONTGOMERY ON HABITS OF SPIDERS.
W g CO r G c r   m t I d o a w  o a w O w ifil PLATE IX.
11 'i3 PILSBRY.
MOLLUSCA OF WESTERN ARKANSAS ETC.
Cj.
Ih  4 a W 6a rn 1 .
8 PILSBRY.
MOLLUSCA OF WESTERN ARKANSAS ETC.
PLATE XI.
11 11 CL 111 PILSBRY.
MOLLUSCA OF WESTERN ARKANSAS ETC.
PLATE XIT.
WHEELER ON LEPTOTHORAX.
PLATE XIII.
NYCTALEMON CURVATA SKINNER.
PLATE XIV.
 i   A  f'' rc 1 13.
m  11.
14.
12. J T'ii 15.
16.
17 18 PILSBRY.
JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA.
dozen distinct vertical duskybrown bars on the side of tlie back.
Other examples show a blackish axillary blotch or several rather large dusky blotches either at the base of the caudal on the back or on the abdomen.
Some examples are almost black above and with intense orange on the fins.
Nineteen examples.
Adult female.
Olivaceous above and extending over the greater part of the side each scale margined with darker.
About six distinct longitudinal series of dusky dots along the side parallel dth the lateral line.
Lower surface of the body pale brown or brownishwhite somewhat silvery on the chest.
Just above the anal many pale diffuse dusky specks.
Dorsal caudal and pectoral dilute brown a little deeper basally.
Anal with a pale orange tinge.
Ventrals whitish.
Many have the anal rather bright orange and dark olivaceous blotches distributed with the same variations as seen with the dark blotches of the males.
One female has the three series of dots running parallel to and below the lateral line orangeochraceous.
Thirtysix examples mostly gravid with ova.
A large number of both young males and females show the coloration of the adult female except the distinct series of dots along the side.
The lower surface is almost entirely pale and uniform.
Anal pale like the ventrals.
The variation of dusky llotches is found in most of the examples even the smallest.
This species has been taken also in the Rio Ixtla at Puente de Ixtla Morelos Balsas and La Antigua. CIOHLID.
2.
Heros teporatus sp.
nov. Head 2f depth 2 D.XV 10 A. V 8 P. i 14 V. I 5 scales 29 in a lateral series to the base of the caudal about 17 in the upper part of the lateral line  5 scales between the front of the dorsal and the lateral line and 12 between the latter and the origin of the spinous anal width of head 2 in its length depth of head 1 snout 3j eye 3 interorbital space 3 fourth dorsal spine 2f  least depth of caudal peduncle 2J anal Ij fifth anal spine 2.
Body elongate compressed the greatest depth about the origin of the spinous dorsal and the back not conspicuously elevated.
Upper profile evenl convex though a little more curved than the lower.
Caudal peduncle deep compressed and its length about twothirds its depth.
Head rather triangular compressed and its depth at the posterior 1 Jordan axd Snyder Bull.
U. S. Finh Cornm. 1900 p. 130.
2 Meek Field Col.
Mu.'.
Pub. 6.5 Zool. Ser.
Ill No.
6 1902 p. 106.
21 margin of the gillopening about equal to its length.
Both profiles are shghtly convex.
Snout conic and rather short.
Eye small well anterior and high.
Mouth small horizontal and the jaws about equal.
Maxillary small and not reaching opposite the front rim of the orbit.
Lips rather fleshy and the lower forming a free fold across the mandible.
Teeth uniserial conic and with a patch of villiform ones directly behind.
Nostrils well separated high and the anterior midway between the tip of the snout and the front of the orbit.
Interorbital space convex.
Preorbital a little over half the width of the eye.
Gillopening carried forward below the anterior rim of the orbit.
 Scales rather large finely ctenoid and of about even size.
Head scaly except the snout and interorbital space and about five rows on the cheek.
Small scales along the bases of the fins those along the spinous dorsal forming a low sheath.
Lateral line high at first interrupted below the posterior portion of the dorsal then beginning on the middle of the side and running over eleven scales in a straight line to the base of the caudal.
Fourth to seventh spines of dorsal even and highest.
Longest dorsal rays a little longer than the longest spines.
Last anal spines longest and a little shorter than the longest anal rays.
Caudal truncate with rounded corners.
Pectoral rather long reaching opposite the origin of the spinous anal.
Ventral inserted a little behind the origin of the pectoral and reaching almost to the origin of the spinous anal.
Color in alcohol more or less olivaceousbrown with about nine broad darker vertical bands fading out below.
The one at the end of the pectoral with a black blotch and another black blotch at the base of the median caudal rays.
Fins dull olivaceousdusky the ventrals somewhat paler.
Lower surface of the body pale.
Length If inches.
Type No.
24242 A. N. S. P. Victoria on the Victoria river a tributary of the Rio Soto la Marina Tamauhpas Mexico.
Coll.
S. N. Rhoads.
One example.
This species is very close to Heros pavonaceus Garman differing in the fin radii the fewer vertical bands and only having two black blotches on the sides.
The first of these is placed at the end of the pectoral just below the lateral fine and the other at the middle of the base of the caudal.
In Heros pavonaceus they are more  Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. VIII p. 93 from a spring near Monclova Coll.
Dr. Palmer.
or less ocellated and vertically expanded while in H. teporatus they are rounded black spots.
Teporatus made somewhat warm on account of the warm springs flowing into the Victoria river where this species was taken.
April 7.
Mr Arthur Erwin Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Eight persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication  ''Certain Mounds of the Central Florida West Coast' by Clarence B. Moore.
Certain Mounds of the Apalachicola River by Clarence B. Moore.
April 14.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
One hundred and thirty persons present.
A paper entitled A new Gurnard from Florida with Notes on the Colors of some other Florida Fishes by Henry W. Fowler was presented for publication.
The death of J. Victor Carus a correspondent was announced.
Mr. Howard W. Dubois made a communication illustrated by lantern slides on a reconnaissance of the Rockies of British Columbia while prospecting for the platinum metals.
No abstract.
April 21.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Eight persons present.
A paper entitled Nosema geophile sp.
n. a Myxosporidian Parasite of Geophilus by Howard Crawle was presented for publication.
1903.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
325 April 28.
Mr. Arthur ERTaN Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Eighteen persons present.
A paper entitled A List of Arachnida from Hayti mth Descriptions of New Species by Nathan Banks was presented for pubhcation.
The death of Theodore D. Rand a member April 24 was annoimced.
John V. Shoemaker M.D. was elected a member.
The folloving were ordered to be printed THE MUTATION OF HIBISCUS MOSCHEUTOS L. BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER.
The views of De Vries on the origin of species by mutation rest upon the result of seventeen years of experimentation.
This botanist holds that new elementary species arise suddenly without transition or intermediate forms and that these species are constant from the moment of their origin and show no resemblance in their characters to the individual variations exhibited by the parent type.
De Vries believes that mutability occurs only at certain periods and a species might continue in existence indefinitely without giving rise to new forms.
This succinctly states the position of the illustrious Dutch botanist upon the origin of species.
The observations here recorded are given with the hope that they may add somewhat to the discussion of the problems opened up by the work of De Vries.
Hibiscus moscheutos L. the swamp rose mallow is found abundantly at Sea Side Park N. J. where it covers acres of the salt marshes.
Here undisturbed by man the plants offer special advantages for study.
It was noticed that no two plants growing in the open meadow were exactly alike.
Consequently a study was instituted to determine if possible the character of the divergences.
All of the plants studied grew practically under the same conditions although in certain places the soil of the meadow was wetter than in others.
So as to make the observations continuous for a number of years and upon the same plants stakes were driven into the marsh at the base of each plant collected and studied.
These stakes were marked by cutting Roman numerals into a planedoff portion at the top.
The plants numbered IXII grew in a wet portion of the meadow near an open slue.
Those designated as XIII to XXV grew in the drier portions of the meadow excepting XXV which grew beside a hole filled throughout the season with water.
Specimens of these plants were submitted to Prof. De Vries who pronounced upon them as follows extracted from a letter dated November 26 1902 I have studied the Hibiscus moscheutos with the greatest interest and beheve with you that you have hit at cases of mutation parallel to that of CEnothera Lamarckiana.
The writer at least hopes that more detailed observations will confirm the encouraging words of Prof. De Vries However to know whether the mutabiUty is still working or whether the period has already come to a close it is of course necessary to make sowing experiments.
This was done last fall at Sea Side Park where seeds obtained from capsules that had matured were marked by stakes and sown in a portion of the meadow destitute of the rose mallow to determine among the different forms which is the original and mutating one because it is probable that the others would no more mutate or do so only in a restricted manner.
Seeds of the several marked plants were also kept for future sowing.
All of the plants studied with the exception of plants III IV V XII XVII were more than of one year's duration.
As is well known Hibiscus moscheutos L. is perennial and persists for a number of years.
The doubt might arise in the minds of some botanists that the smaller plants are small because they are juveniles and have not reached full maturity.
The size of plants III IV V XII XVII and the shape of their leaves may be accounted for in this way but the color of the flowers leaves and markings can hardly be explained by a reference to the juvenile state because these plants diverge as widely in appearance as the other twenty adult plants do from each other.
The adult plants differ from each other as do the plants of one year's growth and the inference is therefore that the difference in size mode of branching size'of leaves shapes and colors of leaves character of inflorescences size and color of the flowers is not dependent upon whether the plant is juvenile or adult but is due rather to the mutations that they have undergone.
Dried plants do not show the peculiarities of structure in as striking a manner as do living plants.
In drying the plants have lost form and the color of the flowers and leaves has faded out.
As the botanist however stands in the salt meadow where Hibiscus moscheutos L. abounds and runs his eye over the thousands of plants that are found there he cannot fail but notice the various striking forms characterized by habit of growth size and color of the stem leaves and flowers that have been produced as the writer believes by the process of mutation.
One plant is tall and has pure white flowers with bronzed leaves.
Another is bright green with rosepink flowers while stiU another plant is corymbosely branched and has deep rosered flowers.
These peculiarities are mentioned as they occur in twentyfive plants gathered in the summer of 1902 for comparative study.
