NOTES ON A FEW FISHES FROM THE MOSQUITO COAST OF NICARAGUA.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
A few fishes have recently been received at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia from the Rev.
William H. Fliick.
They were collected at Waunta Haulover, which is on the Mosquito coast or Atlantic seaboard of Nicaragua.
Though none are new, they prove of interest on account of the locality.
SILURID^.
FELICHTHYS Swainsoii.
1839.
Nat.
Hist.
Fish.
Amph.
Rep., II, p. 305.
Type F [elichthys] filamentosus Swainson, /.
c. Based on Silurus bagre Bloch, Ichthyologie, IV, Pt.
11, 1797, p. 19, PI.
365.
"Les grand rivieres du Bresil et de I'Amerique septentrionale."
(Coll.
M. de Burgsdorff Conseiller.)
[Not of Linnaeus.]
1.
Felichthys marinus (Mitchill).
1815.
Silurus marinus Mitchill, Trans.
Lit.
Philos.
Soc.
New York, I, p. 433.
"New York.
Taken June 30th, 1814."
Head 3|; depth 4i; D. I, 7; A. viii, 16; P. I, 13; V. i, 5; width of head 1^ in its length; depth of head, at posterior margin of the opercle, If; snout 2f ; eye 5; width of mouth 2; interorbital space If; internasal space 3; base of the dorsal 2|; dorsal spine li; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f ; base of anal If; first branched anal ray If; ventral If.
Body rather long, depressed at first, then compressed after the head, and the greatest depth at the origin of the dorsal fin.
Caudal peduncle compressed, and its least depth about half its length, measured between the posterior base of the adipose dorsal, and the base of the caudal.
Head broad, depressed, more or less flattened below, and rising convexly above, especially to the dorsal fin.
Upper profile of the head a little convex above the eye in front.
Occipital buckler solid, its width in front about equal to its length.
Snout broad, a httle rounded when viewed from above, and projecting a Uttle beyond the mandible.
Eye lateral, rather large, and its posterior margin about midway in the length of the head, viewed laterally.
Mouth broad, rounded, and with rather thin lips.
Teeth minute, and in rather narrow bands in the jaws, and on the vomer and palatines.
Tongue thick, broad, rounded, and free in front.
Nostrils close together, the anterior circular, directed forward just above the lip, and the posterior elongate with a small flap.
Interorbital space convexly elevated, with a median depression giving place to the fontanelle.
The fontanelle does not extend beyond the eyes, but runs back to the occipital process as a narrow median groove.
Maxillary barbels broad, flattened, and reaching to the anus.
Mental barbels short, two in number, and reaching a little beyond the gill-membrane where it crosses the isthmus.
Gill-opening extending forward nearly opposite the posterior margin of the eye.
Peritoneum pale.
Anus about the last third in the space between the origin of the ventral and that of the anal.
Skin smooth, the top of the head posteriorly, and the occipital buckler rather rugose.
Humeral process smooth.
Lateral line with many rather long straight and obliquely vertical branches running out above and below.
The lateral line itself is continued well out on the basal portion of the caudal.
Origin of the dorsal nearer the tip of the snout than the origin of the anal, the spine straight, with a rugose edge in front becoming barbed above, and giving place above to a long compressed broad filament that reaches near the base of the caudal.
Dorsal rays graduated from the first, which is much longer than the spine, to the last, which is a little over a third the length of the spine.
Adipose dorsal much higher than its base, and inserted much nearer the base of the caudal than the base of the last dorsal ray.
Anal with a sHghtly concave margin, the first developed ray the highest, and the origin much nearer the base of the caudal than the origin of the dorsal.
Pectoral with a long compressed spine, rugose along the edge at first, and both edges barbed distally.
When depressed the spine reaches three-fourths the distance to the ventral, and its extremity gives place to a long compressed filament reaching the origin of the anal.
First pectoral ray longer than the spine, and the others graduated to the last which is about a fourth the length of the spine.
Ventral broad, rounded, the spine more or less flexible, and reaching the anal fin.
Caudal large deeply forked, and the lobes long, rather slender and pointed.
Color in alcohol grayish above, white below.
Lower side with crowded gray dots.
The outer lower surface of the pectoral with crowded gray dots.
On the outer portion of the anal they are fewer.
Ventral with only a few gray dots above.
Upper edge of the maxillary barbels with gray dots.
Lips whitish.
Length 8^ inches.
One example.
This is evidently the young of marinus, though I have never seen any young examples before.
It agrees with adult and rather large examples from the New Jersey coast.
H^MULID^.
CONODON Cuvier.
1830.
Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., V, p. 116.
Type Conodon antillanus Cuvier.
/.
c.
"Jamaique."
(Coll.
M.
Broussonnet.)
[=plumien.]
2.
Conodon plumieri (Bloch).
1797.
Scixma plumieri Bloch, Ichthyologie, III, Pt.
9, p. 57, PL 306"Antilles."
Head 3; depth 3i; D. XII, 12; A.
Ill, 7; scales 52 in the lateral line to the base of the caudal; 6 scales between the origin of the dorsal and the lateral line in a vertical series, and 12 between the latter and the origin of the anal ; fourth dorsal spine 1| in the head ; second dorsal ray 2|?
; pectoral li; snout S^in the head, measured from the tip of the upper jaw^; eye 4|; maxillary 2|; interorbital space 5.
Back elevated and compressed, the greatest depth at the base of the second dorsal spine.
Least depth of the caudal peduncle one and two-thirds in its length.
Upper profile of the head a little convex.
Snout broad, convex, with the upper jaw projecting, and the upper profile a little convex.
Eye high, impinging on the upper profile of the head, and its posterior margin about midway in the length of the same.
Preorbital margin undulate.
Maxillary reaching opposite the first fifth of the eye, and its distal expanded portion a little less than half.
Lips thick and fleshy.
Bands of minute teeth in the jaws, with fif large conic canines in the front of each jaw forming an outer series.
Tongue broad, round, and free in front.
Nostrils large, close together at the front of the eye, circular, and the posterior about half the size of the anterior.
Interorbital space flattened.
Margin of the preopercle with sparse short serrations, ending in a spine below, and its lower edge with a series of short spines directed forward.
. '
Gill-opening extending about opposite the posterior fourth of the eye.
Gill-rakers 6+16, pointed, more or less even, and a little shorter than the filaments, which are a httle less than half the eye.
Pseudobranchiae rather short.
Peritoneum pale.
Scales of more or less even size, and finely ciliated, ^^ertical fins mostly scaly.
Small scales crowded at the humeral region, at the base of the pectoral, and out on the basal portion of the fin.
A flap composed of a few small scales at the axil of the pectoral.
A few pointed scales at the base of the ventral, but not free.
Lateral line nearly concurrent with the dorsal profile, composed of simple tubes, and extending well out on the caudal basally.
Origin of the dorsal inserted well behind that of the pectoral, the spines graduated to the fourth which is the longest, the first a little longer than eleventh, and the twelfth about equal to the second.
Origin of the soft dorsal about midway between that of the spinous dorsal and the base of the caudal, and the anterior rays the longest.
Spinous anal inserted a trifle behind the origin of the soft dorsal, the second spine the longest, much longer than the first or longest ray, and the base of the rayed fin a trifle over half its height.
Pectoral pointed, reaching about three-quarters of the distance to the anal.
Ventral inserted behind the pectoral, reaching a])out three-quarters of the distance to the anus, and the spine aliout two-thirds the length of the fin.
Color in alcohol brown alcove, pale beneath.
About eight vertical brown bands or bars along the side of the body, extending till opposite the base of the pectoral.
Length Gf^ inches.
One example.
I do not accept Pcrca nohilis Linnseus^ as the earliest available name for this species, as he states D. |f , A.
3%!
MM.
Jordan and Feslar contend that it is probably intended for this species, though they admit that there is less doubt al^out the name 'plumieri?
CIOHLID^.
HEROS HeckeL 1841.
Zool.
Abhand.
Annel.
Wien.
Mus.
Nat.. 1841, p. 362.
Type Heros severus Heckel, I. c. "Marabitanas im Rio-negro."
(Coll.
M.
Natterer.)
3.
Heros urophthalmus Giinther.
1862.
Heros uwphthaJmus Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., IV, p. 291.
"Lake Peten."
[Guatemala.]
(Coll.
MM.
Salvin and Godman.)
Head 2^; depth 2^; D. XVI, 11; A. VI, 9; scales 30 in a lateral 1 Syst.
Nat., Ed.
X, I, 1758, p. 291.
2 Rep. U. S. Fish.
Comm., XVII.
1893, p. 488. series to the base of the caudal; 5 scales in an oblique series back from the origin of the spinous dorsal to the lateral line, and 11 between the latter and the origin of the anal; fifth dorsal ray ly in the head; sixth anal spine 2^; fifth dorsal ray If; caudal 1^; pectoral H; ventral If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; snout 2f in the head, measured from thetipof the upper jaw; eye 4|; maxillary 3yV; interorbital space 3^ ; width of preorbital 5.
One example, 5j\ inches in length.
It is more slender than the examples examined by MM.
Evermann and Goldsborough,^ and the black caudal spot at the bases of the upper caudal rays is very distinct.
There is also a certain amount of dusky about the bases of the vertical fins, and the outer anterior portion of the ventral.
TETRAODONTIDuE.
4.
Cheilichthys testudimeus (Linnseus).
Four small examples, the largest 3f inches long.
They agree with examples from Porto Rico.
There are a number of rather large dark spots on the flank, but not so numerous as in the adult.
SOLEIDuiE.
BAIOSTOMA Bean.
1882.
In Goode and Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., V, p. 415.
Type Baiostoma hranchialis Bean, I. c. "Appalachicola Bay, South Florida."
(Coll.
M. Silas Stearns.
Nos.
26,605, 30,463, U. S. Nat.
Mus.)
This group is given generic rank on account of the presence of small pectoral fins, developed at least on the right side.
In Achirvs they are wholly wanting.
Grammichthys Kaup is hardly available as his type, PIcuronectes lineatus Linnseus, appears to be of the Ed.
XII, Syst.
Ahit.
5.
Biastoma lineata (Linnseus).
1758.
[Pleuronedes] lineatus Linnseus, Syst.
Nat., Ed.
X, p. 268.
"America."
Based on Pleuronedes 1.
Fuscus suhrotuncL, etc.
Browne, Civ.
Nat.
Hist.
Jam., Ill, 1756, p. 445.
[Jamaica.]
D. 53; A.
40; scales 76 in a lateral series between the gill-opening and the base of the caudal.
Pectoral well developed on the right side with five rays.
One example, 2f inches in length.
3 Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1902, p. 157.
1903.
351 May 19.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
Twenty-one persons present.
Regeneration of the Body of a Starfish.
— Miss Sarah P. Monks, in a note read to the meeting, stated that it had been known for many years that starfish can renew rays that have been removed. "
It has been stated that in certain starfishes an arm itself can produce a new starfish — Haeckel, Sarasin, von Martens and Saris — but this has been denied by other observers.
"^ It is beheved by some that a portion of the disk must remain if there is any regeneration, and the breakage plane is near the body, or disk, in cases of renewal of arms.
In studying regeneration of Phataria {Linckia) fascialis she had cut arms at different distances from the disk, and a number of the single rays produced new bodies.
The free ray made a new body and the rest of the starfish produced a new ray, and there was very little difference in the rate of growth of each, and no definite place for breaking.
In the photograph of a six-rayed Phataria, the cut ray attached to the body shows a small ray sprouting, while the free ray shows four new rays.
This was cut July, 1902, and the photograph taken February, 1903.
The manner of growth is as follows: The cut edges heal and drawdown toward the oral side of the starfish, then small knobs appear at the end which grow into rays in which the ambulacral furrow soon appears, wdth the small mouth in the center of the rays.
She had collected specimens at San Pedro, Cal., showing all stages of growth of the single arm, from the recently broken arm to those like the photograph on through all sizes of growing rays.
The following have been accepted by the Publication Committee and ordered to be printed : ^Regeneration, Morgan, p. 102.
THE FORM AND STRUCTURE OF THE MYCODOMATIA OF MYRICA CERIFERA L. BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D.
Within the last decade or two considerable progress has been made in our knowledge of the enlargements, galls, tubercles and coralline outgrowths on the roots of the higher chlorophyll-bearing plants.
Some of them are due to insects, others are due to a perversion of the physiologic activities of the plants on which they are found, while others are attrilDutal^le to the stimuli occasioned by bacteria, slime moulds and higher fungi.
Our information concerning the tubercles on the roots of the Leguminosse is reasonably complete, thanks to the energies of Hellriegel, Willfarth, Winogradsky and others.
Magnus^ has summed up our knowledge of the growths joroduced by subterranean fungi in a recent paper.
He describes systematically the fungi known to live as subterranean parasites, but barely mentions those forms of enlargement called mycodomatia.
Mycodomatia were known to the botanists of a century ago.
Meyen^ looked upon them as parasites having a habit in this respect similar to plants of the natural orders Balanophoracese and Orobanchacese.
Schacht,^ who was the first to give a fairly satisfactory account of their external appearance, regarded them as normal growths upon roots, but later he considered them as abnormal.
Jager* considered them as due to insects.
Woronin,-^ in a paper published in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburg, believed that the coral-like swellings on the roots of the black alder were due to a fungus closely related to one described by Nageli inhabiting the roots of various species of Iris and called by him ^Magnus, P., "Unsere Kenntniss unterirdisch lebender streng parasitischer Pilze und die biologische Bedeutung eines solchen unterirdischen Parasitismus," Abhandhingen des hotanischen Vereins der Provinz Brandenburg, XLIV (1902), pp.
147-156.
Meyen, "Ueber das Hervorwachsen parasitischer Gewiichse, etc.," Flora, 1829, .S.
49.
^ ScHACHT, "Die Pflanzenphvsiologie und Herr Dr. G. Walpers in Berlin," Flora, 1853, pp.
1-13; also "Der Baum," 18(50, S. 172-174.
^ Jager, "Ueber eine Krankhafte Veriinderung der Bliithen Organe der Weintraube," Flora, S. 49.
* WoRONiN, "Ueber die bei der Schwarzerle (Alnus Glutinosa) und der gewohnlichen Garten-Lupine (Lupinus mutabilis) auftretenden Wurzelausschwellungen," Memoires de V Academie ImperiaJe des Sciences de St. Pctersbourg, VII Serie, Tome X, No.
6, 1866.
Schinzia celhdicola.
^lagnus denied that the similarity was sufficient to class the two fungi together.
Some work done by Gravis" led Woronin to make a more detailed study of young galls upon Alnus.
Woronin was so much impressed with the resemblance to his Plasmodiophora brassicce, that he communicated to Gravis his belief that two organisms were present, one a slime mould and the other a fungus.
Since these preliminary observations similar galls have been found on Alnus incana, Alnus serridata, Abius undulata, Ceanothus americanus, Myrica gale, Hippophce rhamnoides, and on species of Elceagnus and Shepherdia, and last summer on Myrica cerifera by the writer.
The results of his study of the mycodomatia on the roots of the common waxberry form the material for this paper.
Tabulated the names of the hosts on which mycodomatia occur and the names of the fungi producing them is as follows : Alnus glutinosa Frankia alni (Moller) Atkinson. ''
incana -... " " serrulata " '' undulata " Ceanothus americanus Frankia ceanothi Atkinson.
Myrica gale Frankia brunchorstii Moller. "
cerifera " Elceagnus — Frankia cdni (Moller) Atkinson.
HippophcB rhamnoides ..— " " " " Shepherdia '' A history of the synonymy is somewhat as follows: Woronin first considered the parasite to belong to the genus Schinzia of Nageli.
Magnus showed the untenableness of this position.
Woronin, after more detailed study, referred the parasite to the slime mould genus Plasmodiophora, and in this view he was supported by H. Moller,^ who called it Plasmodiophora alni.
Brunchorst,^ correctly interpreting the nature of the parasite to be a true filamentous fungus, estabUshecl the genus Frankia and named it Frankia subtilis, ignoring the oldest specific name alni.
Morller in 1890, by a study of fresh material instead of alcoholic, set aside his former position and corroborated the observations of Brunchorst that the organism was a filamentous fungus.
He * Gravis, "Observations anatomiques sur les excroissances des racines de I'aune," Bulletin de la Societe royale de Botanique de Belgique, Tome XVIII, partie I, pp.
50-60.
"Moller, H., "Plasmodiophora alni," Berichte der deutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, Bd.
Ill, 1S85, pp.
102-105.
*^ Brunchorst, "Ueber die Knollchen an den Wurzeln von Alnus und den Elgeagnaceen," Botanisches Centralblatt, XXIV, p. 222, 1885.
23 also described the parasitic growths on another plant, viz., Myrica gale, and named it as a new species, Frankia hruncJiorstii.^ Atkinson*" gave a complete and useful summary of the literature when he published his paper in 1892.
He described a new species of Frankia producing galls on the roots of the New Jersey tea, Ceanothus americanus, which he called Frankia ceanothi.
The mycodomatia on Elceagnus, Hippophm and Shepherdia are considered to be due to a parasite identical with Frankia aim occurring on the genas Alnus.
We have, therefore, three named species of this genus, viz., Frankia alni (Moller) Atkinson occurring on four distinct genera of phanerogamous plants, Frankia ceanothi Atkinson on the single genus Ceanothus, and Frankia briinchorstii Moller on the genus Myrica.
The discovery of mycodomatia on a new host, viz., Myrica cerifera, has led the writer to make a careful study of the galls and the fungus that produces them.
The mycodomatia were discovered on waxberry bushes growing on the slopes of sand dunes at Sea Side Park, N. J., where they were laid bare l^y the blowing away of the sand from about the plants.
Originally the bushes grew out of a low dune, and as the .sand drifted in about their stems adventitious roots were formed upon which grew the fungous galls, or the mycodomatia.
As will be shown subsequently, the fungus is perennial and the growth of the m3'codomatia is an extremely slow one.
This slow growth argues for the stabiUty of the dune on which the bushes grew, for if the sand had been constantly shifting the roots could not have been buried sufficiently long to permit of the growth of the fungous galls to the size that they had reached when they were uncovered.
We have, therefore, a means of measuring the length of life of certain sand dunes.
It seems to the writer that the discovery of these mycodomatia on the adventitious roots of the waxberry growing in the pure sand of the New Jersey dunes throws light upon the question of the importance of these mycodomatia to the host plant.
It has been shown by the experimental work of a number of observers that leguminous plants will grow in pure sand after the period of starvation is passed, provided such sand be microbe-seeded, i.e., provided the right kind of tubercle bacterium is present in the sand.
Subsequent chemical analysis of plants thus grown has shown that nitrogen over and above the amount present in the seed is found in such legu^ Moller, "Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Frankia subtilis Brunchorst," Bericht der deutschen hotanischen Gesellschaft, VIII, 1S90, pp.
215-224.
1" Atkinson, George F., "The Genus Frankia in the United States," Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club, XIX (1S92), pp.
171-177. minous plants, and the inference is that the tubercle-producing bacteria have been instrumental in the production of various nitrogenous compounds derived directly from the nitrogen of the atmosphere.
It is customary in the poor sandy soil of northern Germany, near Berlin, to grow a great variety of leguminous plants, prominently the yellow luj^ine.
The yellow lupine is plowed under and enriches the sandy soil by the decomposition of the nitrogenous substances present in the roots, stems and leaves.
The fact that such plants thrive in such poor sandy soil is explained by the activity of the bacterial symbiont.
The writer has observed the beach pea, Lathyrus maritimus, growing on the crest of the sea dunes of the New Jersey coast.
That the soil is enriched by the growth of this plant is evidenced by the more luxuriant development and darker green color of the marram grass, Ammophila arenaria, which grows associated with the beach pea on the dunes.
Thus the writer previously argued, taking for granted that Frank's assumption was correct, that mycodomatia have a similar function to the leguminous tubercles.
But a more careful study has led him to believe that too much has been taken for granted with reference to the function of mycodomatia.
The abundance of the mycelia in the mycodomatia surprised him and led him to question the validity of the position taken by some of the earher observers that the mycodomatia act in the same way as the leguminous tubercles.
It is probable that Frankia brunchorstii is more in the nature of an endotrophic mycorhiza, to be placed intermediate between the ectotrophic mycorhiza found on the Indian pipe Monotropa, the short roots of which resemble closely in external appearance mycodomatia, and the typical endotrophic mycorhiza found in Thismia and certain other plants, where a definite relationship is established between the nucleus of the host and the fungous hyphse.
No such nuclear control of the growth of the fungus Frankia is observed in the mycodomatia of Myrica cerifera.
The action of the mycelium of Frankia is much more severe, and in fact its growth suggests a true antagonistic symbiosis, for the host cells finally suffer the loss of their protoplasmic contents and collapse, leaving the fungus in possession of the older portions of the mycodomatia.
Whether the waxberry derives any benefit from the association of Frankia with its roots can be determined only b}^ careful physiologic experimentation.
However, if we have here a true instance of parasitism, the struggle between host and fungus is long drawn out, and no material damage is done to the host as long as the fungus confines its attack to the secondary roots of the waxberry.
If this view is correct, then the galls on the roots of Myrica are mycocecidia and not mycodomatia, applying these terms as first suggested by Frank.
The mycodomatia (PI.
XVI) examined by the writer all grew upon the short adventitious roots formed when the stems of the waxberry bushes were covered by the blowing of the sand around them.
On some smaller secondary roots the galls simply dichotomize, but later, by the increase in number of these forking fiber-Hke swelHngs, they become aggregated together into nests or clumps about the size of a walnut (PI.
XVI).
The dichotomous fibers that compose the mycodomatia are of a rich umber-brown color.
They grow in length by small increments and repeatedly branch in a forking manner.
On a small stem examined, the fibers developed on the adventitious roots surround the dry remains of the underground rhizomes of the marram grass, Ammophila arenaria.
The dead leaves and wiry stem of this grass are mixed with the fiber-like galls by the repeated branching of the galls among this material.
The tips of the brown fibers that together form a fungovis household, or mycodomatium, are in the dried specimens blunt and rounded.
Their appearance seems to indicate that, when fresh, they were of a lighter color and softer in consistency than the older part of the swelhng.
The fighter color of the tip probably indicates the growth of the year.
A measurement of several such apices shows that the growth is extremely slow, rarely exceeding a millimeter or two in a single season.
Some of the branches of the mycodomatia measure twelve and fourteen millimeters in length.
If the yearly increment is one millimeter, such branches are twelve and fourteen years old.
If the annual growth is two millimeters, six or seven years represent the age of some of the branches.
A conservative estimate of the age of the mycodomatia that have reached the size of walnuts is ten to fifteen years.
If the growth in the length of the branches of the mycodomatia is greater than this, then this estimate is too high.
One waxberry stem thirty-two millimeters in diameter with several mycodomatia on its secondary roots shows twentytwo annual rings of wood, and twenty years would be the outside limit of the age of mycodomatia growing on such stems.
When dried tlie branches of the mycodomatia become extremely brittle, and the specimens kept for the botanical museum suffered severely in being carried from the seashore to the botanical laboratory.
The microscopic structure of the galls is of interest because few of the earlier observers seem to have determined satisfactorily the exact character of the parasite.
Thus Woronin" considered the parasite to " WoRONiN, loc.
cit.
be a fungus similar to Nageli's Schinzia.
A paper by Gravis led him to modify his views by ascribing the galls to the combined action of a myxomycete similar in appearance to his Plasmodiophora hrassicce and a fungous mycelium.
Moller^^ claimed that the galls were due to a slime mould.
Warming^^ attributed the formation of the mycodomatia to a shme mould allied to the genus Plasmodiophora.
Brunchorst," by his excellent observations, set the matter straight by attributing the galls to a filamentous fungus and estabhshed the genus Frankia for it.
Woronin, Frank/^ Sorauer^^ represented several so-called sporangia in the cells of the several hosts studied attached to single threads of the mycelium.
Brunchorst attempted to prove the fallacy of the observations of these workers by showing that by an optical illusion the sporangia which appear attached in reality lie over the fungous hyphse.
Atkinson^^ figures and describes the myceUum and sporangia of a filamentous fungus which he called Frankia ceanothi, because the parasite lived in the roots of the New Jersey tea, Ceanothus americanus.
With this contradictory evidence a more careful microscopic examination of the mycodomatia is necessary.
Sections were made of the branches of mycodomatia by first boiUng the dried specimens and then treating them with thirty-five per cent, alcohol to remove part of the air.
Transverse and longitudinal sections were made of the dichotomously branched root-like galls.
The general microscopic structure of one of these mycodomatial sweUings resembles that of a root (PI.
XVII, fig.
1).
The center of the section is occupied by the cylinder of wood or xylem, which, however, lacks the larger open elements of the wood of a normal root.
The tracheids, irregular in shape and much reduced in size, are compacted together and the medullary rays are displaced out of their true radial position, taking a somewhat sinuous instead of a straight course (PI.
XVII, fig.
1).
Both in the normal and in the fungous-infested tissues, the medullary ray cells have contents of a rich brown color.
External to the wood comes the cambium, theoretically of a single layer of cells, and outside of this the soft bast which consists of rounded cells.
In such roots, where the elements have shifted normally from a radial jDosition, the cortex and soft bast are confluent, both in the normal and in the fun^MOLLER, loc.
Cit.
13 Warming, " Wurzelknollchen bei den Elseagnen," Just's Botanischer Jahresbericht, 1876, IV a, p. 439.
1* Brunchorst, "Ueber die Knollchen an den Wurzeln von Alnus und den Elseagnaceen," Botanisches Centralblatt, XXIV, 1885, p. 222.
'^ Frank, "Krankheiten der Pflanzen," p. 647.
/ ^® SoRATJER, "Pflanzenkrankheiten."
1' Atkinson, loc.
cit.
goiis material.
In the older normal roots, the cortex is dehmited by a discontinuous layer of hard bast patches, a few elements of which are occasionally met with in the galls.
External to the rather abundant brown cortex region of normal and fungous inhabited roots is a phellogenetic layer, succeeded at the periphery by the young and old cork cells.
Where branches arise, a section at such places shows the obhquely cut xylem pushing out surrounded by the cortex cells.
The young hght-colored cork cells at such places become confluent \vdth the similarly colored wood cells, so that it is difficult to distinguish between the elements composing these two distinct kinds of tissue.
Another marked feature in both the normal and parasitized roots is the plugged tracheids with a yellowish or brown gummy material,^* whether in the nature of modified tyloses the writer was unable to determine.
The most highly modified portions of the roots of Myrica cerifera, when parasitized by Frankia brunchorstii, are the woody cylinder, the soft bast and the cortex.
The finest fungous mycelium is found in the cortex of the younger roots and growing into the medullary ray cells.
It consists of fine unicellular hyphse and can be made out with the greatest difficulty by a No.
3 Leitz objective.
With a No.
7 Leitz objective, the finer hyphae become defined as cobweb-like threads stretching across the large, lacunar, intercellular spaces which have been formed between the rounded cortex cells near the apical portion of the swelling (PL XVII, fig.
66).
Sometimes the hyphae stretch straight across these intercellular spaces, but more often they take a sinuous course and form a complex where several branches cross each other (PI.
XVII, fig.
3).
These finer hyphse are formed as branches from thicker brown hyphse to be described later.
The course of the hyphse, as revealed in a longitudinal section of the apical portion of the mycodomatial branches, is in general from cell to cell.
The hyphse may pass from one side of the cell to the other, passing out again through the cell wall, or the hyphse may make a loop, a half turn or branch by the formation of short branches (PI.
XVII, fig.
6).
These short branches are found imbedded in the protoplasm of the cortex cells and may be looked upon in some sense as haustoria.
Sometimes several hyphse run into one host cell, and in such cases the branches form a mesh.
The hyphse also grow intercellularly.
In several transverse sections studied, three hyphae parallel to each other pierce the same cell wall and run through the protoplasm of the cell ^^ Harshberger, "Two Fungous Diseases of the White Cedar," Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Phiki., 1902. p. 461. thus entered.
The course of such hyphse from cell to cell is made clearer by the contraction of the protoplasm from the cell wall.
This condition has been produced by drying and the protoplasm has been plasmolyzed.
Two hyphse enter the protoplasm of a cortex cell, converge near the center of the cell, and then run to the opposite cell wall, where just before passing through it they diverge from each other.
Another hyphse enters a cell, and in the center of it forks to form a Y (PI.
XVII, fig.
6&).
Still other hypha?
in transverse section grow through the triangular intercellular spaces, forming perfect complexes.
In the older sections, hyphse are seen of a larger size and with browner walls than the finer hyphse above described (PI.
XVII, figs.
2, 4).
These seem to take a general longitudinal or oblique course through the cortex, because in several transsections studied these hyphse exist as rings lying in the cells, having been cut across by the razor.
Large brown hyphse are seen in the lacunar intercellular spaces of sections made at the base of mycodomatial swelhngs (PI, XVII, figs.
2 and 4).
These hyphse are the main trunks of those that pierce the cells and grow into the protoplasm, for they produce smaller branches which assume the colorless aspect of the finer hyphse already described (PI.
XVII, fig.
66).
It is, therefore, clear that the apical portions of the mycodomatia have fine hyphse with a few thicker strands, while sections cut from the older and basal portions of the swellings have large, brown, thick-walled, unicellular hyphse which run longitudinally and obhquely.
The larger hypha probably form the older and perennating mycelium which, during the hfe of the metamorphosed secondary roots, seem to provide new and finer hyphse to the apical portion of the branches of the mycodomatium.
The larger unicellular hyphse, which can be followed across the large irregular lacunar spaces formed by the rupture of the cortex in drying, enter cortex cells where they branch by the formation of short rounded sickle-shaped branches (PI.
XVII, fig.
3).
Several of these curved branches may be formed from a single hypha.
These may be looked upon in the nature of haustoria.
Sometimes these branches, especially near the apical portion of the mycodomatia, become extremely fine, and then they may grow between the starch grains imbedded in the protoplasm, forming a meshed structure to be referred to later (PI.
XVII, fig.
6a).
The larger number of these brown thick-walled hyphse are found in the medioand endocortex, and they almost fill both the cells of these regions and the intercellular spaces.
The cortex cells are no longer living in these reigons, but by the growth of the parasitic hyphse they have been destroyed as living cells.
However, at the apex of the mycoclomatial growths the cortex ceUs are still ahve and by slow growth add to the length of the several branches, forming a mycodomatium.
This stage of the fungous development is sometimes found on secondary roots which still show a radial structure with a well-defined endodermis.
In such roots the fungus is found especially well marked in the medioand endocortex and to a limited extent in the exocortex.
One section showed an appearance suggestive of sporangia as figured in Woronin's paper of 1866, cited above.
The writer refers to certain cortex cells which have contents not only reticulate with clear rounded areas enmeshed by the yellowish reticulum, but also suggestive of a lattice-work of protoplasm (PI.
XVII, fig.
6a), Hyphae are connected not only with the protoplasmic reticulum, but also with the open basket-like protoplasm, so as to suggest that the protoplasmic reticulum owes its origin to the mycelium.
A careful study, however, of the relationship of fungus and host cells shows that the reticulum owes its genesis to imbedded starch grains which have been partially dissolved away by the treatment of the sections in mounting, and that hyphse have sent in short branches between the starch grains and hence into the meshes of the protoplasmic reticulum (PI.
XVII, fig.
6a).
This may have suggested to Woronin the sporangia (zooconidia) which he figures in a grape-like bunch in the cell, each sporangimn (zooconidium) connected by a hypha.
Or this reticulate structure may have suggested to Moller^^ a plasmodium of a myxomycete like Plasmodiophora dividing up into a number of spores.
The writer believes that in suggesting this he has reconciled the earlier opposing views.
Woronin is probably right in describing the sporangia (zooconidia) of Frankia, because the mycelium and its manner of growth suggests a relationship to the genus Pyihium, and the writer would place, therefore, tentatively, the hyphomycetous genus Frankia among the Oomycetes, close to the genera Pythium and Peronospora.
This view is strengthened if the lattice-like reticulum mentioned above (PI.
XVII, fig.
6a) is compared with a figure (fig.
28) given by Tubeuf on p. 139 of his text-book.
This figure illustrates the growth of the fungous Phytophthora in the tissues of the leaf of the beech, and the same kind of reticulum is shown.
In the absence of oogonia and zooconidia, however, in the mycodomatia of Myrica cerifera, the suggested relationships of the fungus studied by the writer to the Oomycetes cannot be insisted upon.
The ^' MoLLER, "Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Frankia subtilis Brunchorst," Berichte ^er deutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, VIII, 1890, p. 222. unicellular hyphse, the method of growth of the haustoria and the appearance of the sporangia (zooconidia) figured by Woronin are all strongly suggestive of such a kinsliip.
Bibliography.
1829.
Meyen.
Ueber das Hervorwaclisen parasitischer Gewachse.
Flora, 1829, S. 49.
1853.
ScHACHT.
Die Pflanzen-Physiologie und Herr G. Walpers in Berlin.
Flora, 1853, S. 10.
I860.
Schacht.
Der Bamn, S. 172-174.
1866.
Woronin, M. Ueber die bei der Scliwarzerle (Alnus Glutinosa) und der gewohnlichen Garten-Lupine (Lupinus mutabilis) auftretenden Wurzelanschwellungen.
Memoires de VAcademie Imperiale de St. Pitersbourg, VII Serie, Tome X, No.
6.
1866.
1876.
Warming, E. Smaa biologiske ogmorfologiske Bidrag.
Botanisk Tidsskrift, 3 dei Rakke, Bd.
1, 1876, p. 84.
Reference, Wurzel-Ivnollchen bei den Elseagneen, Just's Jahresbericht, 1876, p. 439.
1879.
Magnus.
Sitzungsberichte des bot.
Ver.
d. Prov.
Brandenburg, XXI, June 27, 1879.
1880.
Frank, B.
Die Krankheiten der Pflanzen.
Breslau, 18S0, p. 648.
1885.
Brunchorst.
Ueber die Knollchen an den Wurzeln von Alnus und den Elseagnaceen.
Botanisches Centralblatt, XXIV (1885), p 222.
1885.
Gravis, A.
Note sur les excroissances des racines de I'aune.
Compte rendu de la seance mensuelle du Jan. 10, 1880, de la Societe royale de Botanique Belgique.
See Berichte der deutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, Bd.
Ill, 1885, p. 177.
■ .
SoRAUER.
Pflanzenkrankheiten.
2 Aufl., I, p. 747.
1885.
MoLLER, H. Plasmodiophora Alni.
Berichte der deutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, III, 1885, pp.
102-105.
1886.
Brunchorst.
Ueber einige Wurzelanschwellungen, besonders diejenigen von Alnus und den Ela?agnaceen.
Unters.
bot.
Inst.
Tubingen, Zweiter Band, pp.
151-177.
Also Botanisches Centralblatt, XXVII, p. 109.
1887.
Frank, B. Sind die Wurzelanschwellungen der Erlen und Elseaganceen PilzgaUen?
Berichte der deutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, Bd.
V, Heft 2, 1SS7, p. 50.
Ref.
in Botanisches Centralblatt, Bd.
XXV, p. 366.
1890.
MoLLER.
Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Frankia sub tills Brunchorst.
Berichte der deutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, Bd.
VII, 1890, pp.
215-224.
1891.
Atkinson, George F. The Tubercles on the Roots of Ceanothus.
Botanical Gazette, XVI, p. 262. t 1892.
Atkinson, George F. The Genus Frankia in the United States.
Bulletin of the Torreij Botanical Club, XIX (1892), pp.
171-177.
1895.
TuBEur, K. F. vox.
Pflanzenkrankheiten durch Kryptogame Parasiten verursacht.
Section on Die Mj-codomaticn der Erlen, Eteagnaceen und Myricaceen veranlasst durch Frankia-Arten, p. 117.
1900.
WooDHEAD, T. W. On the St.-ucture of the Root Nodules of Alnus glutinosa.
Rep. British Association Advancement Science, 1900, p. 931.
EXPLAXATIOX OF PlATES XVI AND XVII.
Plate XVI.
— Stem of the waxberry, Myrica cerifera, with secondary roots upon which are formed the mycodomatia, or mycocecidia.
Photograph by Mr. W. H. Walmsley.
Plate XVII, fig.
1.
— Transverse section of a branch of a mycodomatia made below the middle showing large lacunar areas, magnified 25 diameters.
Fig.
2.
— Cortex of mycodomatium showing large thick-walled unicellular hyphte.
Fig.
3.
— Meshed structure of finer hyphfe from mediocortex.
Fig.
4.
— Coarser hyphte at the base of a mycodomatial branch.
Fig.
5.
— Older normal secondary root of the waxberry showing central woody cylinder, etc.
Fig.
6.
— Finer hj^jhte with one cell at a showing meshed structure suggestive of a collection of zooconidia.
At h finer hyphaj are sho^vn.
Photographs by Mr. W. H. Walmsley.
ON THE MORPHOLOGY OF THE ROTATORIAN FAMILY FLOSCULARIID^.
BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR.^ The thoughts which group themselves about the theories of larval homologies, and in particular that one which regards the trochophore stage as the recurrence or at least parallelism of an ancestral phyletic form, comprise one of the many inducements to investigate the anatomy of the Rotatoria.
For it is generally maintained by those workers who uphold the trochophore theory in its logical sequences, that the adult Rotatorian and the trochophore larva show close similarities.
One line of the approach, then, to test the correctness of the ideas of such larval homologies, is to extend our knowledge of the structure of the Rotatoria.
A huge literature has grown up around this group of animals, but with the exception of a very few detailed monographs the writers have contented themselves w^th the description of the external form.
This is the more remarkable since the Rotatoria lend themselves better than most forms, thanks to their great transparency, to the study of fine details of structure in the Hving animal.
Those who have not occupied themselves especially with the anatomy of this group make the common assumption that all Rotatoria show essentially the same type of structure.
But this is erroneous for two reasons : first, because in Nature there do not occur types of structure, but gradations of structure; and second, because the Rotatoria evince very great differences among themselves.
For the bearing of the group as a whole upon the views of larval homologies it is first necessary to examine the various Rotatorian groups comparatively, in order to determine which of them is the most generahzed or primitive; then this group should be compared with the various kinds of trochophore larvae.
This is a problem to be attacked from more sides than the purely morphological, for at once appears the striking fact that the Rotatoria are for the most part fresh-water forms, while the trochophore larvae are characteristic exclusively of marine groups.
Of the living Rotatoria, are the most primitive forms found in the sea or in fresh water?
And of them, are the pelagic forms more primitive than 1 From the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
the creeping and attached forms?
Here again we are met with the fact that a knowledge of distribution, and its factors, constitutes a very important ally in the study of phylogeny.
The present paper is offered as a contribution to the morphology of the Flosculariidse alone.
The only thorough account so far of the anatomy of any species of this family is that of Gast on Apsilus lentiformis.
The occurrence of Apsilits, Stephanoceros and four species of Floscularia during the past winter and spring in a pond in the garden attached to our zoological laboratory, enal^led me to study all these forms at the same time, and so to make the desired comparison of them.
But until I have had opportunity to examine for myself other families of the group, it would l)e premature to express any opinions upon the phyletic value of the Rotatoria as a whole.
In regard to the methods of stud\^ the examination of the living animals under slight pressure of the cover-glass has proved the most important.
Fixation with hot corrosive sublimate or with Flemming's fluid, and staining with hsematoxylin or carmines were of value in rendering nuclei more distinct, but even in life all the nuclei of the body tissues can be seen.
The preparations may be mounted in l^alsam with no shrinkage by passing the objects from the absolute alcohol through graduated mixtures of cedar oil vdth alcohol.
Sections were made of Apsilus alone.
The complete literature has been cited for Apsilus and Stephanoceros, but for Floscularia only such contributions as concern the internal anatomy.
APSILUS, Meczn.
Historical.
Leidy (1857) described very briefly Dictyophora nov. gen. vorax nov.
sp., from the vicinity of Philadelphia.
Mecznikow (1866) described Apsilus nov. gen. lentiformis nov.
sp., from Giessen; he noted the complete absence of ciliary wTeaths, form of the corona, the lateral antennae, intestinal tract, musculature, nephridia, and mistook for the brain a large muscle; he described the male also.
Then Leidy (1882) figured his species, and mentioned that it differs from the species of Mecznikow in the lack of lateral antennae and of a ganglion.
Forbes (1882) gave a crude figure of and briefly described Cupelopagis nov. gen. bucinedax nov. spec, from Illinois, describing the alimentary tract and the external form.
Foulke (1884) described as a new species Apsilus bipera, from Philadelphia ; the corona was described as a membranous hood or net, two stomachs (the proventriculus erroneousl}' regarded as a stomach), lateral antennae, musculature; she pointed out that the name Didyophora is preoccupied, and proposed to recognize" as three distinct species Apsilus vorax (Leidy), A. bipera Foiilke and A. biicinedax (Forbes).
In rejoinder to this paper Leidy, in the same 3^ear, proposed to unite these under the name Apsilus vorax, and found at last the lateral antennae.
Hudson and Gosse (1886) placed vorax and hucinedax as synonyms of lentiformis, and hipera as a distinct species ; they relegated this genus to the FlosculariidcB.
Stokes (1896) gave a good description of bucinedax, from Trenton, N. J.; he described the lateral antennae, oesophageal tube, long immobile setae arranged in tufts upon elevations of the inner surface of the coronal cup, slender and numerous coronal muscles, an ovary extending across the whole width of the body.
He also figures the corona of bipera from the same locahty, and considers the four described species as all distinct.
Lund (1899) held that the genus should be removed from the Flosculariidce, and placed in a separate family near the Asplanchnidce.
Jennings (1900) figured the young of a species of Apsilus.
Finally Gast (1900) has given a very detailed and accurate account of the anatomy and histology of a species he calls vorax Leidy (holding lentiformis to be synonymous), and regards bipera and bucinedax to be distinct from it.
Thus the European species, lentiformis, has been well described by Mecznikow and Gast, but of the three described American species the accounts, with the exception of that of Stokes of bucinedax, are so meager that the status of these is very perplexing.
Foulke was right in uniting all these in the one genus Apsilus.
A. bucinedax (Forbes) is well marked from all the others by the shape and great size of its germariurii.
Now the species which I shall describe is from the same locality as the forms described by Leidy and Foulke, and agrees with both of these in all essential particulars (these authors had overlooked the germaria, nephridia and foot, all the sense-organs except the lateral antennae, and the oesophageal tube).
Foulke considered her species to differ from Leidy's in possessing lateral antennae (but these had been overlooked by Leidy), in cihation of the corona (probably, as Gast has remarked, flame cells were mistaken for such ciliation), in more strongly developed muscular system, and in the external form.
I am inclined to conclude that these differences are only apparent, due to the meagerness of Leidy's descriptions.
Stokes stated that bipera differed from vorax in that the ventral margin of the corona is projected forward; but in the form described by me this margin shows considerable variations in form.
Hence bipera (Foulke) had best be considered a synonym of vorax (Leidy); and the three clearly recognizable species may be distinguished as follows: (a) — Gcnnarium very large, extending across the whole width of the trunk, oesophageal tube present, immobile setae within the coronal cup, bucinedax (Forbes).
(6) — Germariura small, rounded, no setae within the corona.
(1) — -(Esophageal tube present, dorsal cuticula of trunk with transverse thickened ridges, vorax (Leidy).
(2) — CEsophageal tube absent, dorsal cuticula without such ridges, lentijormis Mecznikow.
In the description which follows I shall refer for comparison mainly to the description of Gast for lentijormis, since his account is by far the most thorough.
Anatomical, The external form is fairly well known.
The trunk is somewhat wider than high, rounded posteriorly, while anteriorly it is continued as a large corona (Riissel, Mecznikow; cup, Leidy; net, Foulke; Muiidtrichter, Gast).
When fully extended the form is as shown in the figures (PI.
XVIII, 1-3), the corona very large and its aperture usually in the horizontal plane but sometimes oblique.
The posterior wall of this aperture (mouth) may be rounded or notched, or may project forward as a convex lobe.
On the ventral surface of the trunk is the rudimentary foot (Chitinring, Mecznikow; disk or sucker, Leidy; Fuss, Gast) ; and behind that, also ventral, the cloacal aperture.
The lateral antennae are clearly visible on the sides.
The whole animal is so beautifully transparent that the greater part of the following description has been based upon a study of the living animal.
Hypodermis and cuticula.
— The hypodermis is a very thin layer, with its flattened nuclei far apart; at the margins of the mouth it is only slightly thickened.
The cuticula is thin, colorless, and (especially on the dorsal surface) covered with minute tubercles which may be ovoid or stellate (as Gast found).
On the antero-dorsal surface of the trunk there are broad but narrow thickenings of the cuticula (Pl.XVUI, X, fig.
1), the number and exact arrangement of which is subject to considerable variation; each of these ridges bears tubercles.
The cuticula and hypodermis of the body wall are continued inward as the lining of the corona; there the minute tubercles are replaced by minute conical projections, borne mainly upon longitudinal ridges of the cuticula.
The whole cuticula is very flexible, and when the animal is strongly contracted and the corona rolled inward it is thrown into many folds; radial folds are also found around the cloacal aperture.
No cilia are found anywhere upon the surface of the body nor within the corona, nor yet any immobile setae.
Alimentary tract.— The large cavity (PL XVIII, Inf., figs.
1-3) of the corona opens externally by the ventral mouth (coronal aperture).
It is without ciha and hned by a continuation of the hypodermis and its cuticula.
It is succeeded by a thick-walled short oesophagus (Pi.
XVIII, Oes., fig.
1), also without cilia and \nth a sphincter muscle (as Gast has described.)
From the oesophagus, and attached to its posterior end, a narrow flexible tube (PL XVIII, Oes.T., figs.
1-3) extends back into the proventriculus, which may be termed the oesophageal tube (this was also described by Stokes for A. hucinedax).
This tube is hned by a thin epithehum with a few nuclei, and its posterior shghtly enlarged end is free; it is laterally compressed, and probably possesses a musculature of its own, since it beats in rapid undulations with many changes of form ; it is very elastic to ahow the passage of the large objects of food (mainly smaller free-swimming Rotatoria, also Ostracoda, Nematoda, Infusoria and Acarina).
The proventriculus (Prov.)
is a large, distensible sac, of nearly the width of the trunk; its interior surface is hned by a cuticula without cilia, next fohows a clear zone of transparent protoplasm, then the peripheral cytoplasmic layer containing the nuclei.
The musculature of this region described by Gast I was unable to find.
The mastax Ues at the posterior end of the proventriculus; its appearance is shown in fig.
1, and the masticating teeth of one side shown in fig.
5; I have not been interested to determine its finer structure, which has been done very carefully by Gast, but will simply state that its large tooth is not sharply bent at the tip as in lentiformis, and that of the four smaller teeth on each side one is frequently absent.
Further, the usual parts may be distinguished: the unci and manubria, the fulcrum and its rami.
On this follows the stomach proper (Chylusdarm, Mecznikow; oesophagus, Foulke; stomach, Leidy; Magendarm, Gast).
This (PL XVIII, Stom., figs.
1-3) is the only portion of the tract that is ciliated, and it is the assimilative portion of the intestine, with a single epithehum of large nucleated cells containing fatty globules.
The posterior intestine {P.Int.)
is a wide sac lined by a flat nucleated epithehum, which opens into the dorsal side of the cloaca (CI., flgs.
2, 3), a distensible tube hned by a similar epithelium.
The cloacal aperture {Cl.Ap.)
is surrounded by a sphincter muscle (found by Gast) and is actually ventral, but morphologically dorsal since it is behind the foot.
The only glands of the intestine are one pair of large stomach glands ; these {Stom.GL, figs.
1-3) are pyriform with long ducts, the body of each gland placed at the ventro-posterior margin of the posterior intestine, the duct curving up around the dorsal margin of the intestine to join the stomach; each gland (which has been fiihy described by Gast) has one large nucleus^ or as many as three nuclei evidently produced by amitosis of the single one.
The substance of these digestive glands appears granular.
Foot.
— This has been carefully described by Gast, and I have little to add to his description.
It is immovably attached to the surface on which the animal rests by the secretion of large hypodermal glands which are apparent only in the free-swimming stage.
Its outhne {F., figs.
2, 3) is more or less circular and it is placed upon the ventral surface of the body anterior to the cloacal aperture, its margin shghtly elevated.
Musculature.
— A. vorax agrees very closely with A. lentiformis in the details of the musculature, which is very strongly developed.
The following muscles may be distinguished (figs.
1-3) : I. Hypodermal muscles (muscles attached at both ends to the hypodermis).
(a) Circular muscles.
(1) Sphincter coronse primus, Sph.C.
I., a completely closed ring at the edge of the corona with a dorsal loop (Gast's rm 1).
(2) Sphincter coronse secundus, Sph.C.
II, a narrower muscle just behind the preceding, interrupted ventrally (Gast's rm 2).
(3) Sphincter coronse tertius, Sph.C.
Ill, a completely closed ring (Gast's rm 3a).
(4) Sphincter coronse quartus, Sph.C.
IV, present onty dorsally and not parallel to the other sphincters (Gast's mb of his fig.
2).
(5) Sphincter coronse quintus, Sph.C.
V, a slender muscle interrupted dorsally and ventrally (Gast described it as a branch of his rm 3).
(6) Sphincter coronse sextus, Sph.C.
VI, a completely closed ring (Gast's rm 4).
(7) Sphincter coronse septimus, Sph.C.
VII, the largest of the coronal sphincters, a closed ring giving on each side a branch to join the next (Gast's rm 5).
(8) Sphincter coronse octavus, Sph.C.
VIII, with a shorter dorsal and a larger ventral interruption (Gast's rm 6).
(9) Sphincter trunci primus, Sph.tr.
I, a small muscle, present on each side dorso -late rally only, subject to considerable variation.
(10) Sphincter trunci secundus, Sph.tr.
II, interrupted dorsally only (Gast's rm 7).
(11) Sphincter trunci tertius, Sph.tr.
Ill, interrupted ventrally and dorsally (Gast's rm S).
(12) Sphincter trunci qiiartus, Sph.tr.
IV, interrupted dorsally but generally closed ventrally (Gast's rm 9).
(13) Sphincter trunci quintus, Sph.tr., V, dividing into three branches, interrupted dorsally and ventrall}' (Gast's rm 10).
(14) Sphincter trunci sextus, Sph.tr.
YI, paired, latero-ventral on each side of the foot (Gast's mb 3).
(6) Longitudino-circular muscles.
(15) One pair, L.-C.M., passing from the posterior end of the body to about the middle of the trunk, then each turns ventrad (Gast's dim 3).
(c) Longitudinal muscles.
(16) Retractor coronse primus, i^.c.
7, on the antero-dorsal surface of the corona (Gast's dim 1).
(17) Retractor corona secundus, R.c.
II, on the postero-dorsal surface of the corona (Gast's dim 2).
(18) Retractor coronse tertius, R.c.
Ill, the innermost ventral pair, attached at the foot, passing forward and outward to insert upon Sph.C.
I (Gast's vim 1, but with a different anterior relation).
(19) Retractor coronse quartus, R.c.
IV, paired, ventral (Gast's vim 2).
(20) Retractor coronte quintus, R.c.
V, inserted posteriorly at the sides of the foot, passing anteriorly to insert on Sph.C.
I (it is much longer than Gast's vim 3).
(21) Retractor coronse sextus, R.c.
VI, paired, each with two branches ending posteriorly on the sides of the trunk, a single anterior branch inserting on Sph.C.
I, and with two small lateral branches (which for the sake of clearness are not shown on the lateral view of the animal).
(This corresponds more or less to Gast's vim 4.)
(22) Compressor trunci, C.T., paired, subject to considerable variation in form, a very thin but broad muscle always with several branches, extending back to the sides of the foot and anteriorly inserting upon R.c.
Ill, R.c.
IV, R.c.
V. II.
Visceral muscles (those which are entirely separated from the hypodermis, or in which only one end is attached to the hypodermis, which is the more usual condition).
(a) Circular muscles.
(23) Retractor mastacis, r.m., paired, a short muscle connecting the side of the mastax with L.-C.M.
(24) Sphincter oesophagi, sph.oes.
(found by Gast).
(25) Sphincter ani, sph.an.
(found by Gast).
(b) Dorso-ventral muscles.
(26, 27) Depressor trunci prinuis et secundus, d.tr.
1 and 2, two pairs, 24 large muscles inserted on the hypodermis a little to one side of the foot, passing dorsally through the body cavity and inserted with enlarged ends on the hypodermis on the sides of the proventriculus (Cast's dv 1 and dv 2).
(28) Depressor trunci tertius, d.tr.
3, paired, smaller than the preceding and placed posterior to them (Cast's dv 3).
(29) Depressor trunci quartus, d.tr.
4, paired, behind the preceding (Cast's dv 4).
(c) Longitudinal muscles.
(30) Levator coronte, I.e., paired, inserted posteriorly on the hypodermis at the sides of the mastax, passing through the brain in the wall of the corona, subdividing anteriorly, and ending on Sph.C.
1, G. (Cast's Lml 1).
(Cast's second visceral longitudinal muscle pair, his Llm 2, appears in vorax to be hypodermal, namely my R.C.
V).
(31) Defiexor coronse, dc, paired, arising dorso-laterally by two branches on the hypodermis, and passing forward to insert upon Sph.C.
I (Cast's Llm 3 and Llm 4).
(d) Irregular muscles.
(32) Contractor corome primus, c.c.
1, lying deep in the dorsal wall of the corona, a muscle mth four arms (this is the one considered by Mecznikow to be a nerve ganglion; it corresponds to the mb of Cast's fig.
1).
(33) Contractor coronte secundus, c.c.
2, a muscle ring lying deep in the dorsal wall of the corona behind the preceding, with three pairs of lateral branches, and an unpaired mecho-posterior branch (Cast's mbr).
Cast has described the histology of these carefully, and I have nothing new to add to his description.
Nephridial system.
— This (PI.
XVIII, figs.
2, 3, 6) consists of the posterior unpaired canal opening into the cloaca, the lateral canals, and the ductules, the latter terminating each in a flame cell.
Mecznikow and Stokes have described these organs fragmentarily, and Cast very fully.
The posterior canal (PI.
XVIII, figs.
2, 3) which opens into the anterior end of the cloaca (CI.)
is unpaired, thick-walled, with the lumen spirally twisted.
At its anterior end the lateral canals join together, so that the terminal portion may be considered having originated by their fusion in the mid-line.
Each lateral canal passes anteriorly, then bends dorsally (fig.
2), and has a very distinct lumen and a thin wall.
Where the lateral canal turns dorsally it greatly enlarges in diameter to form a tripartite swelling; each of the three parts of this swelling possesses one nucleus, and each is a single large cell containing a much convoluted, somewhat pulsatile lumen.
The dorsal termination of this swollen portion lies at the boundary of corona and trunk, and at that point joins with the common nephridial ductule.
From this ductule a secondary ductule passes anteriorly for a short distance, then divides into three tertiary ductules (figs.
1, 2, 6).
The most median of these bears the first flame cell (Fl.C.
1), and is connected with the corresponding ductule of the opposite side by a transverse commissure (fig.
1) placed above the mouth cavity.
The middle tertiary ductule terminates in the second flame cell (Fl.C.
2).
The most lateral tertiary ductule bends ventrad, then just behind the lateral antenna divides into two quartern ductules, the anterior of which is very short and terminates in the third flame cell {Fl.C.
3) placed near the lateral antenna, while the posterior passes backward and follows the course of the lateral canals of the nephridia, terminating in two short ductules each ending in a flame cell (Fl.C.
4, Fl.C.
5).
Finally, from the common nephridial ductule pass backward on the dorsal surface of the trunk a pair of secondary ductules, each of which terminates in a flame cell near the mastax {Fl.C.
6).
Cast's account differs in that he states that what I term flame cells 4 and 5 connect by short ductules directly with the lateral canals.
The nephridium of one side is thereby connected with that of the other at its anterior end by a commissure of the ductules, and at its posterior l^y fusion of the lateral canals.
The only portion of the nephridia which are cihated are the terminal flame cells ; these (fig.
6) are completely closed from the body cavity, and each has an intracellular canal in which beats a long tuft of cilia (a typical "flame") attached at the wall of the cell where the lumen ends; the terminal end of each flame cell is somewhat enlarged, more or less amoeboid, and contains one nucleus.
The lumen of the ductules and of the lateral canals is also intracellular; a pair of nuclei are always present on the wall of the commissure connecting the anterior secondary ductules.
Gennarium (Eierstock, Mecznikow; Keimdotterstock, Cast; ovary of Stokes) has the same relations as in lentiforviis.
It lies on the ventral side of the body {Ov., figs.
2, 3) anterior to the foot, often in an irregular position due to the pressure of embryos upon it, a small rounded mass of cells, with a distinct cellular lining which is continued backward as the unpaired oviduct {Ovd.)
and joins the cloaca between the openings of the nephridia and the posterior intestine.
It contains yolk cells (nurse cells) to the number of 10-14, large cells without distinct boundaries, each with a large nucleus containing a huge nucleolus.
A much smaller space is occupied by the much smaller germ cells, placed near the duct, characterized by very small, deep-staining nuclei and clear cytoplasm.
Gast correctly noted these two kinds of cells and their differences.
The egg cells do not reach their full size within the germarium, but only when they leave it and reach the oviduct, which becomes dilated by them to serve as a uterus for the complete embryonal development ; as many as five large embryos are found in the uterus at one time, representing different stages of development.
N'ervous system.
— Stokes was the only one to see this organ complex before the time of the very thorough account by Gast.
The cerebral ganghon lies in the mid-line above the alimentary tract (PL XVIII, Cer., figs.
1, 2), at the junction of corona and trunk or a little anterior to this point.
Seen from the side (fig.
2) it appears ovoid, a little longer than high.
Seen from above (Cer., figs.
1, 6) it is found to be widest in the transverse plane.
Through each side of it passes a visceral longitudinal muscle (levator coronse.
I.e.).
In life as weh as in stained preparations the following nerves can be seen passing from this cerebral ganglion (figs.
1, 6).
From its dorso-anterior edge three pairs of delicate nerves, which converge to the dorsal sense-organ (D.Sens.O.
), i.e., pass upward and forward from the ganglion.
Each of these nerves has a nucleus at the point where it joins the ganglion.
From each side pass out at least eight nerves : one for the latero-anterior sense-organ (A.Sens.O); one for the latero-posterior sense-organ (L.Seyis.O.
); two large nerves which pass back from the latero-posterior angle of the ganglion but which could be traced only a short distance ; and four other nerves which could be traced only a short distance, but one or two of which appeared to be connected with the nephridial tubules.
The ganghon and its nerves are thus strictly bilaterally sj-mmetrical.
Now the three pairs of nerves which can be traced to the three sets of sense-organs all arise from the dorsal margins of the ganghon; the dorsal portion of the ganglion may then be essentially sensory.
The two large ventral posterior nerve pairs arise from two large cells, each evidently bipolar, placed at the ventro-posterior margin of the ganglion; Gast noted only one of these and only one posterior nerve.
These two cells are characterized by their great size (they might be called on this account neurochord cells, with reference to similar huge cells in Nemertini, Annelida and Crustacea), and the large size of their nuclei.
Since these differ so markedly from the demonstrated sensory nerves, it is very probable that they innervate either the musculature or the viscera, i.e., that they are either motor or splanchnic in function.
Then since their roots are ventral in the ganglion, it would follow that there may be a differentiation within the latter of a dorsal sensory and a motor or sphlanchnic ventral portion.
The nerve cells in the brain are quite numerous and symmetrically arranged, but cell boundaries are distinguishable only in the case of the two huge cells.
Two consecutive sections of one and the same ganglion are figured (figs.
7, 8)> cut in an obliquely horizontal plane, one passing through the nerves to the lateral antennse and one of the huge cells (fig.
8), and the other (fig.
7) passing further forward.
In the latter can be seen what appears to be a transverse fibrous commissure on the ventral surface of the ganghon.
The nerve cells are thus arranged mainly dorsally and posteriorly.
There are no recognizable nerve cells on the ventral surface of the alimentary tract, as far as can be determined by the usual staining methods.
Sense-organs.
— The dorsal sense-organ (D.Sens.O., figs.
2, 6) is a specialization of the hypodermis on the dorso-midline of the corona?
and was discovered by Gast.
It consists of a group of cells (fig.
6) in which one large and five small nuclei can be seen, which compose a thickened area of the hypodermis, and above which there is a small annular thickening of the cuticula; no sense hairs were seen.
The antero-lateral sense-organs, also discovered by Gast, lie each (A.Sens.O., figs.
1, 6) upon the side of the corona, as a thickening of its wall.
Each consists of a cytoplasmic mass containing four large nuclei immediately imbedded in a more granular cytoplasm, while into a more hyaline cytoplasm extends a slender cylindrical rod from the cuticula; there are thus some differences from the relations in lentiformis.
A single nerve, containing a nucleus at its junction with the cerebral ganghon, innervates each of these organs.
The postero-lateral sense-organs (lateral antennse) lie each on the side of the corona somewhat ventral near the junction of the trunk (L.Sens.O., figs.
1-3).
To each passes one large nerve, with a large nucleus at its peripheral end ; and as Gast also observed, the organ itself consists of a tubercular elevation of the body wall, and on the apex of this a cylindrical cuticular process, bearing a tuft of long, non-vibratile sense hairs (fig.
6) ; the base of the cuticular process is enlarged and extends below the hypodermis.
Body cavity, connective tissiies.
— The body cavity contains a clear fluid in which float masses, varying in number and size, of a brown color; these are non-cellular and probabh' represent bA'c-products of metabolism.
The connective tissue elements are branched, naked cells with many processes, constantly changing their form and moving about through the body cavity.
They are frequently found in close connection with the walls of the nephridia, particularly with the anterior commissure.
The immature female.
— The free-swimming female (fig.
4), just hatched from the egg, shows the following differences from the adult.
The corona is represented simply by a circular hypodermal thickening bearing a row of vibratile cilia; and in the part of the trunk projecting anteriorly beyond this ring lie a pair of large red eyes (£".).
The mouth (ilf.)
is ventral, and the most anterior portion of the alimentary tract contains short ciUa which do not extend out of the mouth aperture.
The cerebral ganglion (Cer.)
is much larger than in the adult.
The whole hypodermis is thicker, and that portion of it lining the welldemarcated foot (F.) consists of about six huge cells (F.GL) which Gast has shown to be gland cells, by the secretion of which the animal firmly attaches itself.
The surface of the foot disk is covered with long ciha.
The musculature I have not drawn in this figure, but it is similar to that of the adult.
STEPHANOCEROS, Ehrb.
Historical.
Stephanoceros was discovered in 1761 by Eichhorn, and he later figured it (1775, according to Ehrenberg).
0.
F. Miiller (1776) declared it to be a Tubularian, and Oken(1815) also placed it among the hydroids.
Goldfuss (1820) first named it, calhng it Coronella fimhriata.
Since this generic term was preoccupied Ehrenberg (1832) changed it to Stephanoceros, and called the species Stephanoceros Eichhornii, which all later writers have followed.
According to our present generally accepted rules of nomenclature, however, and in justice to Goldfuss, this species must be named S. fimbriatus (Goldfuss) and not S. eichhornii Ehrenb.
Ehrenberg (1832, 1835, 1838) gave good figures of the animal, described the intestine, stomach glands (which all later writers seem to have overlooked), six longitudinal muscles, the ovary, and the flame cells (which he termed gills).
Perty (1852) described as a new species *S. glacialis, but this is generally held to be an abnormal individual of fimbriatus.
Leydig (1854) added richly to the knowledge of its anatomy and development.
He was the first to note the nucleated hypodermis, circular muscles (he stated there are four longitudinal muscles in the foot which divide dichotomously), the cesophageal tube, ciha in the coronal cup and intestine, lateral canals of the nephridia (with Ehrenberg he regarded these organs as respiratory).
Gosse (1855) described minutely the mastax, and in 1862 gave quite a full account of the structure; by experiment he proved the nephridia to be excretory and not respiratory, found the contractile vesicle, four flame cells on each side of the body, described the dorsal glandular mass (found by Leydig) as the brain, and described five pairs of longitudinal nmscles.
Cubitt (1870) found the lateral sense-organs, but made the serious error of supposing that each of them was connected with a flame cell (his pulsatile sac), and supposed them to be respiratory structures for taking water into the nephridial tubules; he carefully described the ciliary wreath within the coronal cup, but mistook (Uke Leydig and most of the later describers) the dorsal glandular body for the brain.
Hudson and Gosse (1886) gave very good figures ; found five flame cells on each side of the body, described the connection of the lateral canals with the contractile vacuole, discovered the dorsal sense-organ, and described six pairs of longitudinal muscles.
Vallentin studied stained sections; he found that large hypodermal cells of the foot secrete the tube ; that the dorsal mass is not nervous but glandular and opens by a duct into the vestibule; he regarded the large hypodermal cells at the bases of the arms to be nerve cells.
The male of this species has been described by Western (1893) and more carefully by DixonNuttall (1896).
Less important are the papers of Dujardin (1841), Weisse (1845), Dobie (1854), Pritchard (1861), Cubitt (1869), Peirce (1875), Rosseter (1881, 1884), Lord (1885), Jennings (1894, 1896, 1900, allfaunistic).
Anato:mical.
Nothing new can be added to our knowledge of the external jorm (PL XIX, fig.
16).
The margin of the corona is prolonged into five long arms, which are slightly fiattened and extensile.
These arms are shghtly curved, and the dorsal, unpaired one slightly longer than the others.
The body is long and slender, rather strongly demarcated from the long foot which ends in a short peduncle (fig.
14).
The gelatinous tube (Tub.)
is very transparent, with annular folds, elastic and of great thickness.
Hypodermis.
— The hypodermis {Hyp., figs.
9-11) of the trunk is a thin layer with flattened nuclei.
At the margin of the corona it is much thickened, so as to form at the base of each of the arms a mass of four or five large rounded nucleated cells.
The hypodermis of the arms is about as thick as that of the trunk, but neither in the living state nor upon preparations in which the nuclei of other regions of the hypodermis are stained very sharply are nuclei to be found in it.
The hypodermis of the arms of the corona would therefore appear to be a direct continuation of the cytoplasm of the large hypodermal cells at the base of the arms.
Each of these cells then has a great extent, from its base to the free tip of an arm.
When the arms are fully extended the outlines of the hypodermis seen on optical section appear even, without any irregularities.
But when the arms are partially retracted, the hypodermis appears partitioned into circular areas on its inner surface; on surface view these are seen as in fig.
13; and on optical section as in fig.
12.
At first I was inclined to consider these as representing component small cells of the hypodermis, but the absence of nuclei in them excludes that view and they can be regarded only as folds of the continuous hypodermis due to the contraction of the arm.
The arrangement of the cilia upon the arms is very complicated and has not yet been satisfactorily determined; it is best seen on a living arm in a contracted condition.
On the outer as well as upon the inner surface of each arm the arrangement of the cilia is shown by the dotted lines in fig.
12; there the cilia are arranged in single rows, making angles together, these single lines of ciha separated by spaces which are without cilia.
But on lateral view each arm shows a different arrangement of the cilia; here (fig.
13) the cilia are arranged in tufts placed on oblique thickenings of the surface of the hypodermis.
In this figure only those cilia seen in profile are drawn in extenso, while the insertion points of those on the aspect of the arm toward the observer are represented by stippling, each patch of fine dots denoting a tuft of cilia.
At the tips of the arms the ciha are more evenly arranged along the whole hypodermis.
The appearance of the tufts of cilia, arranged in oblique bands, are shown for the two ventral arms under a lower scale of magnification in fig.
16.
The cilia are extensile, and in fully expanded condition attain a length considerably greater than that of the arms themselves; but this is to be seen generally only when the animal is under the pressure of a coverglass.
I could not determine the presence of a cuticula upon the arms.
The hypodermis of the foot is thickened, and at the junction of this region with the trunk (figs.
9, 10) certain cells are very prominent.
These may correspond to the foot glands of the other Rotatoria, and secrete the substance of the tube in which the animal lives.
The short peduncle (fig.
14) by which the foot is attached probably represents a secretion of hypodei'mal cells at the distal end ; this peduncle is short, hard and homogeneous.
Alimentary tract.
— By an oblique diaphragm {Dia., figs.
9, 10) the cavity of the corona is divided into a more spacious infundibulum (Inf.)
and a more posterior vestibulum (Vest.
), both of which have a nucleated lining similar to that composing the hypodermis.
The diaphragm is an annular fold composed of a more thickened cell layer; it is shown in oblique ventral view in fig.
11, on lateral view in fig.
9, and on dorsal view in fig.
10.
The drawings show that this ring fold bears ciha along the anterior border of its ventral half, a tuft of longer ciha on each side, while the margin of its dorsal half has no cilia.
Only this diaphragm bears ciha, and none are found upon the walls of the infundil^ulum and vestibulum.
By a narrow aperture there follows upon the vestibulum the oesophageal tube {Oes.
T.), the distal end of which projects freely without attachment into the cavity of the proventriculus.
This is an elastic tube that beats rapidly in many dilations and therefore probably possesses a musculature of its own; I could not determine nuclei in its wall.
The proventriculus (Prov.)
is the largest portion of the ahmentary tract, its wall composed of a single epithelium of large cells with distinct nuclei, and lined internally by a cuticula.
In this posterior part lies the mastax, concerning which it will suffice to refer to fig.
IS, a dorso-posterior view.
Gosse was wrong in considering it to be rudimentary, for it has well developed unci and manubria, fulcrum and rami.
The stomach (Stom.)
is a rounded, dorsally placed sac lined by large cells which bear numerous long ciha.
The posterior intestine (P.Int.)
follows, lined by a flattened epithelium without cilia and with distinct nuclei; and behind it a very short rectum opening into the cloaca (CL).
A single pair of large stomach glands {Stom.GL, figs.
9, 10) are present, each latereventral at the junction of proventriculus and foot, and each containing several nuclei.
Musculature.
— The following longitudinal visceral muscles run from the foot through the body cavity of the trunk to attach themselves to the bases of the arms of the corona (figs.
9-11).
One pair to the dorsal arm, extending to its outer sphincter muscle.
A pair of dorso-lateral muscles, each of which inserts anteriorly on the thickened hypodermal ring of the corona at the junction of the dorsal with a lateral arm.
And a pair of ventro-lateral muscles, each of which, when reaching the thickened hypodermal ring of the corona, divides into two branches which pass forward to the outer sphincter muscle of the coronal arms.
Thus I find only three pairs of longitudinal muscles.
All these muscles have their muscle bodies with nuclei contained in the foot.
Of the circular hypodermal musculature, there are a large number of dehcate sphincters in the foot and trunk region, and at the anterior end of the corona two sphincter muscles of large size (Sph.C.
I and //, figs.
9-11).
The remaining complicated network of musculature of the corona I have not studied.
Nephridial system.
— The whole iiephridial system of one side of the body is shown in fig.
9, and a portion of it from dorsal view in fig.
10.
Into the posterior end of the cloaca (CL)opens the unpaired contractile vacuole {Con.V.
); and into this a long elongate unpaired sac with distinct outer lining and containing a convoluted tube with wide, pulsatile kmien, the common terminal canal.
At the free end of the latter unite with it the two longitudinal canals of the nephridia.
Each of these passes forward latero-ventrally to al^out the level of the stomach glands, and there becomes much convoluted so that the exact course is difficult to follow; but through all these convolutions it remains a single tube with distinct walls.
Each lateral canal then turns dorsad to about the position of the cerebral ganglion where it again Ijecomes convoluted ; its diameter is greatest in this portion of its course.
At this anterior end the ductules are given off to the flame cells, and, as fig.
9 shows, one ductule passes forward and divides into five ductules, each ending in a flame cell {Fl.C.
1, Fl.C.
2).
A second ductule passes posteriorly and ends in a flame cell (Fl.C.
6) placed near the stomach.
In one individual I saw two other flame cells {Fl.C.
7, Fl.C.
8) placed near the sixth flame cell, but their connections with the ductules of the nephridial system I did not find.
As the dorsal view, fig.
10, shows, in front of the cerebral ganglion a transverse commissure connects the ductules of the two sides of the body.
Each flame cell (fig.
15) bears internally a flame of long cilia, and appears completely closed from the body cavity.
The lumen of all the ductules and the main canals is intracellular, and cilia are found only in the flame cells.
The whole nephridial system is exceedingly distinct in life, provided the animal is well expanded.
Dorsal glandular organ.
— On the dorsal side, at the junction of the corona with the trunk, lies a large mass (D.Gl., figs.
9, 10) of clear vacuolar structures, which has been heretofore regarded by most writers as the brain.
It is composed of clear transparent globules, varies in size in different individuals, and becomes shrunken by the action of alcohol.
Nuclei are to be seen at its margins, particularly posteriorly, but I was unable to determine whether each of its component globules represents a cell.
This organ is closely attached to the dorsal hypodermis around the dorsal sense-organ {D.Sens.O., fig.
9), and is penetrated by the nerves which pass to the latter from the cerebral ganghon (Cer.)
; it has no connection with the alimentary tract.
The functional significance of this organ is whoHy obscure, and I have supposed it to be glandular simply on account of its connection with the hypodermis and the dorsal sense-organ.
It is not probable that it forms the secretion for the tube, since it is of very large size in those large individuals with fully-formed tubes.
Germarium, oviduct.
— The germarium {Ov., figs.
9, 10) is a more or less spherical organ placed on the ventral side of the body, composed of a syncytium (fig.
17) containing fully fifteen large nuclei which are nurse cells (yolk cells), and with at one end much smaller nuclei (ovogonia).
The whole is surrounded by a nucleated membrane which is continued as a thin-walled unpaired oviduct (Ovd.)
to open into the ventral surface of the cloaca between the rectal and the nephridial openings.
One ovum matures at a time within the germarium, then is discharged into the oviduct which serves as a uterus for its further development until it reaches the free-swimming stage.
As many as four or five embryos are to be found at once in the uterus.
Nervous system.
— Most of the preceding writers have mistaken the dorsal glandular body for the ganglion, while Vallentin recognized this body as glandular, but supposed it to open by a duct into the alimentary canal, and considered the large hypodermal cells at the bases of the arms to be nerve cells.
The cerebral ganglion (Cer-., figs.
9, 10) lies directly below the dorsal glandular mass, is elongate from side to side and approximately cylindrical on lateral view.
On stained preparations I could determine that it is composed of many small nerve cells, the nuclei of which stain deeply.
On lateral view of the expanded living animal (fig.
9) the following nerves are seen to arise from it : (1) One pair which passes directly dorsad or dorso-caudad to innervate the dorsal sense-organ (D.Sens.O.)
; this pair penetrates the dorsal glandular body, and probably represents what Vallentin mistook for a glandular duct leading into the vestibulum.
(2) A pair of nerves to each lateral sense-organ (L.Sens.O.).
(3) An unpaired, very delicate median nerve to the dorsal hypodermis behind the dorsal sense-organ.
(4) A pair of nerves which pass backward upon the sides of the provcntriculus (Prov.).
And (5) a pair of nerves, the largest of all, which pass ventrad on the sides of the proventriculus.
I have found no evidence that the large hypodermal cells at the bases of the arms are nervous; the long fibres which Vallentin found proceeding from them probably represent the continuations of these cells to form the walls of the arms.
Sense-organs.
— Eyes were seen only in one individual, a pair of small red spots (E., fig.
9), lying close to the cerebral ganglion.
The dorsal sense-organ {D.Sens.O., figs.
9, 10) is a slight thickening of the hypodermis bearing a tuft of short sense hairs, which penetrate a circular aperture of the cuticula.
Each lateral sense-organ (L.Sens.O.)
has one conspicuous large nucleus, and likewise bears a tuft of short cilia.
The body cavity is voluminous in the trunk and the foot (but does not continue into the peduncle of the latter).
In it are free-floating, non-cellular corpuscles, probably waste products.
The cavity of the arms is continuous with that of the trunk (figs.
9-11).
Very few connective tissue cells are present in the body cavity.
FLOSCULARIA, Oken.
Historical.
Of the numerous writers upon this genus only the follo^\'ing have considered to any extent the internal anatomy : Ehrenberg (1834.
1838) Avi'ote with all the enthusiasm of the naturalist: "Sie sind einzeln, wie seltene schone Blumen auf einer Wiese, und erfreuen gleich ihnen das Auge des Beobachters."
He found the mastax, oesophageal tube and the stomach glands.
Dobie (1849) gave a careful description with good figures, and distinguished the infundibulum, yestibulum and proventriculus ; he saw the cilia on the diaphragm.
Leydig (1854) added to this description in finding the contractile vacuole and the longitudinal muscles.
Gosse (1855) described in some detail the masticatory apparatus; and (1862) erroneously termed a vascular system the narrow spaces of the body cavity in which float excretory corpuscles.
The account of Moxon (1864) is much more thorough than any of the preceding, and contains the discovery of the dorsal and lateral antennae, correct position of the cilia within the infundibulum, and occurrence of the nephridia with four flame cells on each side of the body.
Cubitt (1869) studied particularly the cilia within the coronal cup.
The papers of Grenacher (1869) and Cubitt (1872) added little new.
Eckstein (1884) gave a careful account of the hypodermis, and the muscles and peduncle of the foot.
Hudson and Gosse (1886) add but little to the account of Moxon.
The paper by Hood (1895) I have not seen.
The males have been described by Hudson and Gosse and by Weber (1888).
But the best of these descriptions, those of Dobie and Moxon, leave much untouched in regard to the finer anatomy.
Anatomical.
F. campanulata Dobie (PI.
XX, figs.
27-35; PI.
XXI) was the species obtained in the greatest numbers, and on this account its anatomy could be more fully determined than that of the others.
F. conklini Montg.
(figs.
25, 26, PI.
XX) was obtained at the same time, but it is rather a difficult form to investigate on account of the large number of minute floating corpuscles within the body cavity which greatly obscure the internal organs.
F. coronetta Cubitt (PL XX, figs.
22-24) and F. ambigua Hudson (PI.
XIX, figs.
19-21) were the other species studied, but ambigua in only a few individuals, so that for this species my observations are unfortunately fragmentary.
General form.
— In all Floscularians there may be distinguished the corona, trunk and foot (PI.
XXI, fig.
37).
The corona is in anterior extension and enlargement of the trunk.
In campanulata (PL XX, figs.
27, 28, 31) it is largest, widely bell-shaped and prolonged into five broad lobes, the dorsal of which is largest and longest, next the two ventral lobes, and smaller than these the two lateral lobes.
In this species the corona is subject to considerable individual variations in form, but is always much wider and fully as long as the trunk.
In ambigua (PL XIX, fig.
20) the corona is relatively smaller, and of its five lobes the lateral pair are usually very small and often distinguishable only by the cilia which they bear.
In conklini (PL XX, figs.
25, 26) the corona is more cylindrical, frequently considerably less than half the length of the trunk, the lateral lobes also very small.
In coronetta (PL XX, figs.
22, 23) the lobes are more cylindrical and narrowed, with enlarged (knobbed) tips, the dorsal one only slightly longer than the others.
The trunk is elongate and cylindrical, in conklini (fig.
25) more arched on the ventral than on the dorsal side.
The foot is an elongate proximal extension of the body, relatively longest in conklini and coronetta.
The foot ends in a peduncle by which the animal is firmly attached to the surface of a water plant stem.
This peduncle is much longer than broad in campanulata (PL XXI, fig.
40) and cmibigua, little longer than broad in coronetta (PL XX, fig.
24), and fully as broad as long in conklini (fig.
26).
These different species were all found attached to MyriophyUuni, but to different parts of it, campanulata always to the very finest outgrowths of the plant; conklini usually to the angles at the bases of stems; ambigua and coronetta to larger stems.
In all these forms the animal is surrounded by a gelatinous, elastic tube (PL XXI, fig.
37, Tub.
), with an anterior opening; in conklini (PL XX, fig.
26) the tube is relatively largest and its outer surface often covered with foreign particles, and in campanulata it is exceedingly transparent and visually without any such adherent particles.
By a weak solution of methylene blue the tube quickly becomes colored intensely; and this method of demonstrating it shows its form with great distinctness.
The animals are highly contractile, thanks to the strongly developed longitudinal muscles; the coronal lobes may be folded into the infundibulum, the whole corona and trunk much shortened, and the foot so contracted that its peduncle is brought close to the trunk.
Hypodermis.
— The hypodermis of the trunk is a thin, one-layered epithehum, ^vith relatively few nuclei (Hyp., figs.
20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28).
It bears a hyaline, structureless cuticula (Cut.).
On the free margin of the corona it is much thickened and contains large nuclei which are easily seen even in life.
In campanulata (PI.
XX, figs.
27, 28) this coronal thickening follows the margin of each lobe, and at the tips of the dorsal and ventral lobes are particularly large nuclei.
That is also the case with amhigua (PL XIX, fig.
20).
In conklini (PI.
XX, fig.
25) the dorsal lobe has the hypodermis thickened only at its tip.
In coronetta (figs.
22, 23) the hypodermal thickening forms a ring around the base of the lobes, while the hypodermis forming the walls of the lobes is but little thicker than that of the trunk; this is an approach to the condition in Stephanoceros , and wall probably be found to be the case in all forms where the lobes are slender.
Another peculiarity of coronetta is that the cuticula covering the lobes is thicker than elsewhere upon the body ; in the other species I could not distinguish with certainty a cuticula upon the lobes, though probably a deHcate one is present.
The cilia of the external surface are limited in the adult to the margins and lobes of the corona.
In conklini (figs.
25, 26) these cilia are no longer than the corona, and strongly vibratile ; they are found also only upon the tips of the lobes.
In coronetta the tip of each coronal lobe bears a tuft of long cilia (fully as long as the trunk), which have a slow undulatory movement; while the sides of the lobes and the interlobular margin of the corona bears much shorter cilia with a more rapid movement.
In campanulata (PI.
XXI, fig.
37) the ciha fringe the whole free margin of the corona.
Here they are longest upon the tips of the lobes, but all have a length greater than that of the corona and trunk together, and sometimes nearly two-thirds that of the entire animal.
The cilia in this species are nonvibratile, or at most with slight undulatory movements, and toward their free ends become gradually exceedingly tenuous.
All preceding authors have figured them much too short, probably because their full length can be determined only with high powers of magnification.
These cilia are less hke true cilia than like the tenuous, stiff pseudopodia of Heliozoa; and hke the latter they are extensile and retractile to some degree at least, as is shown by a protoplasmic flowing.
They serve not to obtain food particles by ciliary currents, but rather as a wide basket to encompass the prey.
Generally they are held stiff and rigid; but at times wave-hke undulations are seen to pass slowly along them.
Unhke a heUozoan pseudopodiuni there is no supporting axial filament within them.
Ambigua has cilia like those of campanulata, and also fringing the whole coronal margin.
In these two species and in coronetta the ciha project out of the anterior end of the bodj^ in a thick tuft when the animal is strongly contracted.
In the foot the hypodermis is thicker than in the trunk, composed of larger cells.
Its cells are largest at the junction of the trunk with the foot (PI.
XIX, fig.
20; PI.
XX, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28); and these may be gland cells which produce the gelatinous tube.
The peduncle (figs.
24, 40) is homogeneous without cells or nuclei ; it probably represents a secretion of certain large hypodermal cells found in the embryo but absent in the adult, which are placed at the distal end of the foot (PL XXI, fig.
38).
The peduncle is firmly attached to the plant stem, so securely that when the animal is torn loose from its tube the peduncle is often left still attached.
Alimentary tract.
— The following regions are marked in all the forms : infundibulum, vestibulum, oesophageal tube, proventriculus, stomach, posterior intestine, rectum, cloaca.
The infundibulum {Inf., figs.
20, 22, 25, 28) is the cavity of the anterior portion of the corona, and its opening to the exterior constitutes the broad mouth.
It is lined by a thin one-laj^ered epithelium in which nuclei can be distinguished by staining, is without cilia, and its wall is separated from the hypodermis to which it is attached only at its anterior margins, by the body cavity.
The infundil)uhun is partially bounded off from the vestibulum behind it by the diaphragm.
This {Dia., figs.
22, 23, 25, 27, 28) is a thickened annular fold of the internal wall of the alimentary tract, and the only portion of the latter anterior to the stomach which is ciliated.
Viewed from in front, i.e., from the mouth opening, it appears circular with a knob-like thickening at each side in campanulata (fig.
31).
Each of these knobs bears a tuft of long and slowly vibratile cilia, while the border of the diaphragm ventral to these knobs bears a semicircle of very short and delicate, rapidly vibratile cilia.
There are no cilia dorsal to the knobs.
In conklini (fig.
25) the relations are in general similar.
In coronetta (figs.
22, 23) the dorsal free margin of the diaphragm is considerably thicker, and bears short pointed projections (like those within the infundibulum of Apsilus) ; while the ventral margin bears rather long cilia upon several knobs.
In all these species (I did not determine the relations in ambigua) the cilia appear usually to beat forward, i.e., into the infundibulum, but frequently they point backward and beat in the vestibuhun.
The latter (Vest., figs.
20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28) is the portion of the alimentary tract placed at the base of the corona, at the junction with the trunk; its lining is like that of the infundibulum.
Attached to the narrowed posterior aperture of the vestibulum is a slender tube, the oesophageal tube, (Oes.T., figs.
20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28), which extends back without posterior attachment into the proventriculus.
This tube is very thin-walled, and constantly moves in rapid undulations and distortions, so that its shape can be made out only when it comes to rest.
Nuclei could not be determined in its walls in life, and all fixatives preserve it as poorly as they do the nephridia; so that stained preparations did not help in understanding its structure.
But very delicate spirally arranged muscle fibrils compose a part of its wall; and it is probable that it possesses a nerve center of its own since it continues to beat after the other organs have ceased to live.
In a state of rest (figs.
34, 35) it is cylindrical with a posterior enlargement, and a very small posterior aperture into the proventriculus.
It is very elastic to allow the passage of large objects of food {Infusoria and Mastigophora in the species studied), and may sometimes be everted anteriorly into the vestibulum.
The proventriculus (Prov., figs.
20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28) is a large sac lined by a rather thick epithelium, with readily distinguishable nuclei; its internal surface is bounded by a delicate cuticula.
At its posterior end lies the mastax (Mast.).
This consists of chitinous, jointed parts, the manducatory apparatus, and of musculature for their movement.
Gosse (1855) holds that Stephanoceros and Floscularia have no mastax in the sense that this term is used for other Rotatoria, i.e., that in the Flosculariichv.
it is not a special portion of the alimentary tract with a lining of its own.
But it is surely homologous with that of the other groups, and though relatively very small I find it is not rudimentary but possesses all the characteristic parts found in the other Rotatoria.
Thus in campanulata (PI.
XXI, fig.
39) the manubrium consists of two teeth, together constituting the uncus (Un.
), and of a basal piece, the manubrium (Man.).
A broad chitinous plate belonging also to the malleus lies below the uncus.
The incus consists of a median fulcrum (Fid.)
and of lateral rami (Ram.).
The musculature is difficult to determine in its exact arrangement, so that I have not drawn it, but is readily seen in the living animal.
The organ then has a special lining, the musculature, and is truly a mastax in the sense of Gosse, even though it does not form a separate compartment of the alimentary tract; and this is the case also in Stejjhanoceros and Apsilus.
The stomach (Stom., figs.
20, 22, 25, 27, 28) is thiclc-waUed, with large cubical cells bearing long ciHa ; this is the assimilative portion of the intestine, and its cells are more or less filled with globules.
Upon it follows the posterior intestine (P.
Int.
), hned by a thin-walled, nucleated epithelium without cilia.
Here the faeces form large food balls in ambigua, but not in the other species.
By a short rectum (Rec), often barely distinguishable from the posterior intestine, an opening into the cloaca (CI.)
is attained.
The cloaca is ciliated apparently only in coronetta (figs.
22, 23), is very thin-walled, and opens to the exterior by the cloacal aperture placed dorsally at the junction of the trunk and the foot, or a httle anterior to it.
The diameter of the different portions of the alimentary tract is dependent upon the amount of food contained in them.
One pair of stomach glands (Stom.GL, figs.
20, 22, 23, 25, 28) is present in all the species, placed latero-ventrally at the boundary of stomach and proventriculus.
In coronetta (figs.
22, 23) and ambigua (fig.
20) each gland is elongate with a single large nucleus, in conklini (fig.
25) pyriform with several nuclei, in campanulata (fig.
28) of the same shape but wuth one nucleus.
The connection of these glands with the stomach was determined positively only for ambigua, but there can be doubt that they discharge into the stomach and not into the proventriculus in the other forms also.
A peculiar structure was found in every individual of ambigua, but in none of the other species.
This was a body of a brown color (X.Y., fig.
20) placed in the posterior intestine, with a thick wall, a deep-staining body (nucleus ?)
in this wall, and rather vacuolar contents.
It appeared to lie within the posterior intestine.
It can hardly be a parasite, since exactly one of these bodies was found in the same region in each individual.
Musculature.
— An exhaustive study of the musculature, such as was given for Apsilus, was not attempted for Floscularia.
Of the hypodermal musculature (the following description applies particularly to campanulata) a number of delicate transverse muscles are present around the foot and trunk (fig.
27) ; by their contraction these portions of the body are compressed, and the body fluid driven forward to unfold the corona.
In the corona this musculature is richly developed (figs.
27, 28), though the separate muscles are fine.
Two sphincter muscles are present here, one close to the coronal margin and another behind it.
Numerous slender longitudinal muscles connect these together and with the hyopdermal thickening.
The diaphragm has its own sphincter, and receives branches of the lateral and ventral longi25 tudinal trunk muscles; while the walls of the vestibulum have a rich network of muscles.
There are three pairs of large visceral longitudinal muscles (figs.
22, 23, 25, 27, 28), a pair of dorsal {D.M.
), of lateral (L.M.)
and of ventral (V.M.)
muscles respectively, attached anteriorly to the coronal margin, passing the whole of the trunk and in the foot converging together to form a muscle band which extends posteriorly as far as the proximal end of the peduncle (fig.
40); the cell bodies (Musc.C.^ fig.
28), and nuclei of these large muscle cells are placed within^the foot.
Probably the proventriculus has its proper musculature, thought it could not be determined ; and the muscles of the oesophageal tube have been already mentioned.
Nephridial sijstem.— This is essentially the same in conklini (fig.
25), campanulata (28, 30, 41) and coronetta (figs.
22, 23).
Opening into the posterior end of the cloaca is an unpaired, thin-walled contractile vesicle (Con.V.
), and into this an unpaired contorted canal enclosed by a membrane.
From the proximal end of this canal pass forward the two longitudinal canals, one on each side of the trunk, a httle more ventral than dorsal in position.
The anterior portion of each of these canals becomes convoluted, and tliis convoluted portion is thicker than the rest of the duct with a narrower lumen, and somewhat contractile.
It is only by continued study of compressed hving individuals that the bendings and interlacings of these very transparent canals can be determined.
Anteriorly each longitudinal canal gives off an anterior and a posterior ductule.
Each anterior ductule divides close to the lateral wall of the corona into three secondary ductules, each terminating in a single flame cell (Fl.C).
The posterior ductule passes caudad to about the region of the oesophageal tube on the side of the body, then divides into two secondary ductules, a shorter dorsal one ending in a flame cell on the side of the mastax, and a longer ventral branch terminating in another flame ceU on the latero-ventral aspect of the trunk.
In conklini I could not ascertain the mode of union of the ductules with the lateral canals, on account of the large number of those floating corpuscles within the body cavity which greatly obscure the nephridial organs.
F. ambigua (fig.
21) differs from the preceding species in having six flame cells and ductules on each side of the body, i.e.
an additional one near the anterior end of the longitudinal duct.
Amhigua also differs from the other forms in having the membranous tube which encloses the posterior unpaired canal much longer than in the other species; but I did not have sufficient material to determine its exact length.
Only in coronetta (fig.
23) is there an anterior commissure joining branches of the anterior ductules of the two sides of the body.
In Floscidaria the flame cells are readily found, but it is very difficult to find all the connections of the ductules and tubules.
Cilia are found only within the flame cells, as a long intracellular tuft or flame, and these terminal cells appear entirely closed off from the body cavity; they have also no connection whatsoever with the lateral antennae (as one observer had supposed).
Organs of prohlcmatical significance.— In conklini there is found a large transparent structure {GL, fig.
25) immediately below the hypodermis (and peripheral to the other internal organs), at the junction of the corona and trunk.
It is lobed and forms here a ring just beneath the hypodermis, and attached to it.
It appears to be gelatinous.
Probably this is a glandular structure, and the dorsal gland of Stephanoceros may be homologous.
In coronetta a vesicular dorsal, hypodermal structure (D.GL, fig.
23).
probably a gland, is found just below the dorsal sense-organ.
Nervous system, sense-organs.— In all the species the cerebral gano-li„n (Cer., figs.
20, 22, 23, 25, 28) lies deep below the hypodermis, on the dorsal surface of the vestibulum; it is elongate from side to side and composed of numerous small nerve cells.
The nerves arising from it were studied most thoroughly in campanulata.
In this species"(figs.
28 32) the gangUon seen from the side shows quite clearly a distinction between a dorsal and a ventral portion.
From the dorsal side two nerves pass anteriorly to the dorsal sense-organ (D.Sens.O.
), and a single nerve in the median line posteriorly to end on the hypodermis.
From the anterior edge of the ventral portion of the ganglion a laroe nerve fiber passes antero-laterally to each lateral sense-organ (L.Sci^s.
0.)
; two smaller nerve pairs pass posteriorly from its posterior margin'; and from its lateral margin a pair of large nerves on each side downward and backward along the surface of the proventriculus.
These nerve fibers could be seen more clearly in fife than upon stained preparations; methylene blue staining gave no positive results.
In coronetta there is found on the sides of the corona a single pair of small red eyes {E. , figs.
22, 23) .
In some adult individuals o'f ambigua (fig.
20), but not in all, were found a number of eyes, up to five in all on the dorso-posterior part of the corona; these have an irregular arrangement, and each consists of a few large red pigment granules.
Campanulata and conklini have no eyes in the adult stage.
^ All the species possess an unpaired dorsal {D.Sens.O., figs.
20, 22, 25, 28) and a pair of lateral sense-organs {L.Sens.O., figs.
20, 23, 27, 28) (antennse) upon the corona, each bearing a tuft of long sense hairs.
In campanulata the dorsal organ {D.Sens.O., fig.
32) was found to consist of from four to six hypodermal cells, the sense hairs of which project outward through an aperture in the cuticula.
Female genital organs.
— In campamilata (Ov., figs.
27, 28), coronetta {Ov., figs.
22, 2.3) and conklini (fig.
25) there is a more or less rounded germarium upon the ventral surface of the trunk; its cellular lining is continued caudad as the oviduct (which serves also as an uterus), and the latter opens as an unpaired tube into the cloaca between the openings of the rectum and the nephridia (figs.
29, 30) .
The germarium consists for the greater part of its bulk of a syncytium of yolk cells with large nuclei (Yk.N.)
and huge nucleoli; there are some fifteen or more of these cells.
At one end of the germarium is a cap of cells with much smaller nuclei, which are ovogonia (Ovg.).
As the latter increase in size they are pushed in succession into the oviduct, where the cleavage commences.
In conklini and campanulata two or three large ova are found in the oviduct (uterus) at once, in caynipanidaia never more than a single one.
In ambigua the germarium has an entirely different form (Ov., figs.
19, 20); it begins proximally upon the dorsal left-hand side of the trunk, extends down that side, then across the ventral region to the right hand of the trunk, and at the latter point the mature ova are found in the oviduct.
I could not determine, owing to lack of material, where the ovogonia are placed within this remarkable germarium.
Body cavity.
— This lies beneath the hypodermis, is continued in the coronal lobes, and in the foot as far posterior as the peduncle.
In it float masses of minute, brownish, non-cellular corpuscles, which vary in number in different individuals of the same species, and in conklini are always exceedingly numerous and very minute.
They are dissolved by alcohol, and the larger of them often appear doubly refractive.
They must be metabolic products, probably waste products, but I have never found them within the nephridial lumina.
In ambigua when the animal is fully extended and somewhat compressed in life beneath the cover-glass, it appears as if these corpuscles flowed within special channels between the hypodermis and the infundibulum, and like Gosse (1862) I was at first inclined to beheve that there existed here a subhypodermal vascular system.
But further study showed that the apparent canals are not fixed structures but simply portions of the general body cavity.
The immature female.
— This stage was studied particularly in ambigua, but the general characteristics are the same in all the species.
This free-swimming stage (PL XIX, fig.
21), just hatched from the egg, has only an incipient corona and foot.
The other differences from the adult arc mainly the following: Two red eyes (E.) are present in all the species except in conklini.
No coronal lobes are yet developed, but at the anterior end of the trunk is a thickened hypodermal ring bearing a row of vibratile ciUa.
On the ventral side of and just behind this ring is the mouth opening (M.), leading into a capacious infundibulum (from which a vestibulum has not yet become demarcated), the inner lining of which bears long cilia.
It is important to note that these cilia lie within the alimentary tract, i.e., belong to its inner lining and thus cannot represent a cingulum.
The thickened hypodermal ring becomes subsequently prolonged to form the coronal lobes, and the cilia of the infundibulum are at no time a portion of the corona.
Above this portion of the alimentary tract lies a large dense mass, part of which may represent the cerebral ganglion (Cer.).
The hypodermis of the foot consists of a few enormous cells.
A tuft of cilia projects posteriorly from the posterior end of this incipient foot; and in its axis lies a hollow cylinder of cells enclosing a granular, elongate body, which may represent the gland (F.Gl.)
which forms the peduncle.
The tuft of cilia at the posterior end of this embryonic foot was found, in a somewhat older stage of campamdata which had attached itself and developed a peduncle, to be still present and placed at the junction of the foot and peduncle; in the figure (PL XXI, 38) the cylindrical cellular mass within the foot probably represents embryonic muscle cells of the foot.
The remaining organs are essentially as in the adult.
The 7nature male of F. companulata.
— The males of this species were found in November and the first half of December; the male eggs, as in other Rotatoria, are more numerous and smaller than the eggs which give rise to females.
The mature male (PL XXI, fig.
36) in size and general structure, disregarding the sexual organs and the alimentary tract, shows a great similarity to the immature female.
It lacks an alimentary tract entirely, and I was unable to find a nephridial system, though undoubtedly the latter must be present.
The thickened hypodermal ring at the anterior end of the body bears a single ring of long, vibratile cilia, and in the projection of the trunk anterior to this ring lie two semicircular, dorsal, red eyes (E.).
The foot (F.) is very short, without peduncle.
The hypodermis (Hyp.)
is thickened and with an irrcgurlaly scalloped inner contour.
A dorsal sense-organ (D.Sens.O.)
is well developed.
In the anterior region of the trunk lies a large mass which may in part represent a cerebral ganglion (Cer.).
The genital organs consist of a huge sperm sac (Sp.S.)
connected with a cirrhus (Cir.).
This sperm sac is filled with spermatozoa, and its walls thin except at one point on its dorsal surface which is thickened ; probably this thickening represents the germinal epithelium and therefore the testis {Test.)
proper.
A curled thick-walled tube, the cirrhus, follows the sperm sac; its lumen, the vas deferens (V.D.
), is very narrow.
A thin-walled short tvibe connects the posterior end of this cirrhus with the dorsal genital aperture; and wdthin this tube beat long cilia which are attached to the posterior end of the cirrhus.
The cirrhus may be protruded some distance out of the genital aperture, and probably serves as an intromittent copulatorj^ organ.
On the ventral side of the cirrhus, in close attachment to its wall, is a large dense body (Gl.)
with an axial pyriform clear space; I interpret this to be a gland, and the clear space to be its duct.
Just posterior to this gland is a lobed body projecting into the body cavity, bearing on one of its surfaces long cilia which beat in the body cavity.
No further structures were observed in the living animal.
The copulation was not observed.
In a number of the females studied at the time the males occurred were found spermatozoa, from one to about a dozen in each female.
All seen were within the body cavity of the female and none in any portion of her genital tract.
The spermatozoa (PI.
XX, fig.
33) are relatively huge lumbricoid cells, very elongate, the more vibratile end of which appears to correspond to a thick flagellum; they are exceedingly active and twist about within the female, and within the sperm sac of the male, like animated corkscrews.
CoxcLUDixG Remarks.
The family of the Flosculariidce includes the three genera Floscularia, Stephanoceros and Apsilus.
Leidy's description of Acydus is too incomplete to allow us to determine whether this form should be included in the group also.
Apsilus differs quite markedly from both Floscularia and Stephanoceros (these two are very similar), but agrees with.
them in possessing an cesphageal tube, in the similar relations of the nephridial and nervous systems, and in the great similarity of the young.
The immature females just hatched from the egg have the foot bearing a tuft of ciha at its distal end.
The general characteristics of the family are as follows, based upon the few species already known anatomically : The anterior portion of the trunk is expanded to form a capacious coronal cup, the free margin of which is prolonged into lobes {Stephanoceros and most species of Floscularia), or is without lobes {Apsilus, Floscularia edentata Collins and pelagica Rousselet).
The whole free margin of the corona constitutes the boundary of a large mouth aperture.
Cilia are absent upon the corona in Apsilus.
In Stephanoceros they are arranged in numerous oblique rows upon the surfaces of the coronal lobes.
In Floscularia there is in most species a single row of cilia upon the lobes or on both the lobes and the interlobular coronal margin; in a few there are two rows upon the coronal margin {pelagica Rousselet, hoodii Hudson, cucullata Hood, trilohata Collins).
All these cilia are preoral; they constitute, therefore, a trochus, and there is no postoral row (cingulum) on the external surface of the body behind the mouth.
In fact, no postoral cihary ring occurs, for the diaphragm of Stephanoceros and Floscularia, wliich bears a row of cilia, and on that account was homologized by Hudson and Gosse with the cingulum of other Rotatoria, belongs to the intestinal tract and not to the coronal margin at all.
In the young of Apsilus and Floscularia the mouth is ventral instead of terminal, as in the adult, and the anterior region of the ahmentary tract is cihated, these cilia not persisting to the adult stage.
The diaphragm separates in Stephanoceros and Floscularia an anterior infundibulum from a posterior vestibulum, both without cilia; in Apsilus there is no diaphragm and no distinction of two chambers, and also no ciliation.
In two species of Apsilus, in Floscularia and Stephanoceros an oesophageal tube is present.
On the vestibulmn follows a non-ciliated proventriculus, the posterior end of which is specialized as the mastax; next, a ciliated stomach; then a non-ciliated posterior intestine, then the short rectum opening into the cloaca.
The intestinal ciliation is thus limited to the diaphragm, the stomach and (in some species of Floscularia) to the rectum.
The foot is well developed in all but Apsilus; in this genus it is larger in the young than in the adult, so has probably degenerated.
Only in F. chimccra Hudson does the foot terminate in two toes (it is doubtful whether this form belongs in the family).
In all other forms it terminates in a single peduncle (except in Floscularia atrochoides Wierzejski).
The foot is strongly contractile, but not retractile into the trunk.
The nephridial system is essentially alike in all three genera, likewise the nervous system; no ring nerves have been found in the coronal margin, and there is no suboesophageal ganglion.
A dorsal and a pair of lateral coronal sense-organs are always present, and an additional pair of lateral ones in Apsilus.
The germarium and oviduct are unpaired; the germarium is small and rounded in most species, but much elongated in Apsilus hucinedax (Forbes) and Floscularia ambigua Hudson.
Distinct foot glands are absent in the adult; the only glands connected with the alimentary tract are one pair of stomach glands.
A gland around the dorsal sense-organ is found in some forms.
The young are free-swimming, but it is the rule that the aduhs Uve permanently attached within a gelatinous tube.
The exceptions are the pelagic species Floscularia pelagica Rousselet, atrochoides Wierzejski, libera Zacharias.
Since some of these swim carrying a gelatinous tube, it is probable that they were derived from sedentary forms.
All the known species are restricted to fresh water, except two which are eurhyaline.
The sexes are dimorphic, and the small males represent individuals arrested in their development (they have considerable resemblance to immature females), and also degenerative in structure (shown by the absence of the alimentary tract).
The whole structure is bilaterally symmetrical; even the unpaired dorsal sense-organ has a pair of nerves, which, as Zelinka has correctly argued elsewhere, points to its original paired condition.
The radiality evinced by the arrangement of the coronal lobes is referable to the sedentary mode of Hfe.
Finally, in contradiction to most other Rotatoria, in most species that have coronal ciha, these do not serve to create food currents, but are stiff and more like pseudopodia.
Literature Cited.
CuBiTT, C. Floscularia coronetta.
Month.
Micr.
Journ., 2, 1869.
Idem.
Observations on Some Points in the Economy of Stephanoceros.
Ibid., 3, 1870.
Idem.
On the Homological Position of the Tube-makers.
Ibid., 8, 1872.
DixoN-NuTTALL, F. R. On the Male of Stephanoceros Eichhornii.
Journ.
Roy.
Micr.
Sac, 1896.
DoBiE, W. M. Description of Two New Species of Floscularia with Remarks, Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., (2), 4, 1849.
Idem.
Stephanoceros Eichhornii.
Ann.
Anat.
Physiol., 1, 1854.
DuJARDiN.
Histoire naturelle des Zoophytes.
Infusoires.
Suites a Buffon, 1841.
Eckstein, K. Die Rotatorien der Umgegend von Giessen.
Zeit.
wiss.
ZooL, 39, 1884.
Ehrenberg, C. G. Ueber die Entwickelung und Lebensdauer der Infusionsthiere, etc.
Abh.
Akad.
Wiss.
Berlin, 1832.
Idem.
Dritter Beitrag zur Erkenntniss grosser Organisation in der Richtung des kleinsten Raumes.
Ibid., 1835.
Idem.
Die Infusionsthierchen als vollkommene Organismen.
Leipzig, 1838.
EiCHHORN, J. C. Beytrilge zur Naturgeschichte der kleinsten Wasserthiere.
Danzig, 1775.
Forbes, S. A Remarkable New Rotifer (Cupel opagis bucinedax).
Amer.
Month.
Micr.
Journ., 3, 1882.
FoxjLKE, S. G. On a New Species of Rotifer, of the Genus Apsilus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia, 1884.
Gast, R. Beitriige zur Kenntniss von Apsilus vorax (Leidy).
Zeit.
wiss.
ZooL, 67, 1900.
GoLDFUSS, G. A. Handbuch der Zoologie.
Niirnberg, 1820.
GossE, P. H. On the Structure, Functions and Homologies of the ^Manducatory Organs in the Class Rotifera.
Phil.
Trans.
Roy.
Soc.
London, 1S55.
Idem.
The Crown Animalcule (Stephanoceros Eichhornii).
Popular Science Review, 1, 1862.
Idem.
Contribution to the History of the Rotifera, 2.
The Floscules, Ibid., 1862. .
Grenacher, H. Einige Beobachtungen uber Raderthiere.
Zeit.
wiss.
Zool., 19, 1869.
Hood, J. Floscularia hoodi.
Intern.
Journ.
Micr., (3), 5, 1895.
Hudson and GossE.
The Rotifera; or, Wheel-Animalcules.
London, 1886-1889.
Jennings, H. S. A List of the Rotatoria of the Great Lakes and of some of the Inland Lakes of Michigan.
Bull.
Mich.
Fish Comm., No.
3, 1S94.
Idem.
Report on the Rotatoria.
Ibid., No.
6, 1896.
Idem.
Rotatoria of the United States.
Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1900.
Leidy, J. Dictyophora vorax.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia, 1857.
Idem.
Rotifera without Rotatory Organs.
Ibid., 1882.
Idem.
Dictyophora as Apsilus vorax.
Ibid., 1884.
Leydig, F. Ueber den Bau und die systematische Stellung der Raderthiere.
Zeit.
wiss.
Zool., 6, 1854.
Lord, J. E. A New Rotifer (Stephanoceros longispinatus?).
The Naturalists' World, 2, 1885.
LtTND, C. W. Danmarks Rotifera.
Kobenhavn, 1899.
]\Iecznikow, E. Apsilus lentiformis, ein Raderthier.
Zeit.
wiss.
Zool, 16, 1866.
Montgomery, T. H. On Floscularia Conklin nov. spec, etc.
Biolog.
Bull., 1903.
MoxoN, W. Notes on Some Points in the Anatomy of Rotatoria.
Trans.
Linnean Soc.
London, 24, 1864.
MtJLLER, O. F. Naturforscher.
Halle, 1776.
Oken, L. v. Lehrbuch der Naturgeschichte.
1815.
Peirce, C. N. Remarks on Stepahnoceros Eichhornii.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia, 1875.
Perty.
Zur Kenntniss der kleinsten Lebensformen.
Bern, 1852.
Pritchard, a. a History of Infusoria, London, 1861.
RosSETER, T. B.
Tube of Stephanoceros Eichhornii.
Science Gossip, 1881.
Idem.
Observations on the Life-History of Stephanoceros Eichhornii.
Journ.
Roy.
Micr.
Soc, 4, 1884.
Stokes, A. C. Notes on the Genus Apsilus and other American Rotifera.
Journ.
Roy.
Micr.
Soc, 1896.
Vallentin, R. Some Remarks on the Anatomy of Stephanoceros Eichhornii.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., (6), 5, 1890.
Weber, E. F. Notes sur quelques Rotateurs des environs de Geneve.
Arch.
Biol, 8, 1888.
Weisse, J. F. Verzeichnis von 155 in St. Petersburg beobachteten Infusorienarten nebst Bemerkungen i'lber dieselben.
Bull, math.-phys.
Acad.
St. Petersburg, 3, 1845.
Western, G. Notes on Rotifers, with description of 4 new species, and of the Male of Stephanoceros eichhornii.
Journ.
Quekett Micr.
Club, 5, 1893.
Explanation of Plates XVIII, XIX, XX, XXI.
The figures, with very few exceptions, are freehand drawings, each constructed from a considerable number of sketches or various details of structure.
The degree of magnification is not uniform.
These figures were made with the pen and were not reduced in size, which will account for occasional irregularities m the lines.
The following is the significance of the abbreviations employed: A Sens.O., antero-lateral sense organ.
; Cer., cerebral ganglion.
B.C., body cavity.
; Cir., cirrhus (penis).
eel c C.2., contractor coronse primus CI., cloaca. '
and secundus.
Cl.Ap., cloacal aperture.
394 [May, Con.V., contractile vacuole.
C.T., compressor trunci.
Cut., cuticula.
D.A., dorsal coronal arm or lobe.
d.c, deflexor coronte.
D.GL, dorsal gland.
Dia., diaphragm.
D.M., dorsal longitudinal visceral muscle.
D.Sens.O., dorsal sense organ.
d.tr.
I-IV, depressor trunci primusquartus.
E., eye.
F., foot.
F.Gl., foot gland.
Fl.C, nephridial flame cell.
Ful., fulcrum inci.
Hyp., hypodermis.
Inf., infundibulum (coronal cup).
L.A., lateral coronal arm or lobe.
I.e., levator corona;.
L.-C.M., longitudino-circular muscle.
L.M., lateral visceral longitudinal muscle.
L.Sens.O., lateral sense organ.
M., mouth aperture.
Man., manubrium mallei.
Mast., mastax.
Muse, muscles.
Musc.C, muscle cell body.
N., nucleus.
N.c, nerve cell.
N.com., nerve fiber commissure.
Neph., nephridial canal.
Neph.C, nephridial cell.
Neph.com., nephridial commissure.
N.f., nerve fiber.
O., Ovum.
Oes., oesophagus Oes.T., oesophageal tube.
Ov., germarium.
Ovd., oviduct.
Ovg., ovogonium.
Ped., peduncle of foot.
P.
Int., posterior intestine.
Prov., proventriculus.
R.c.
I-VI, retractor coronse primussextus.
Ram., ramus inci.
Rec, rectum.
R.M., retractor mastacis.
Sph.An., sphincter ani.
Sph.C.
I-VIII, sphincter coronas primus-octaviis.
Sph.tr.
I-VI, sphincter trunci primussextus.
Sp.S., sperm sac.
Stoni., stomach.
Stom.Gl., stomach gland.
Test., testis.
Tub., gelatinous tube.
Un., uncus mallei.
V.A., ventral coronal arm or lobe.
Vac, vacuole.
V.D., vas deferens.
Vest., vestibulum.
V.M., ventral visceral longitudinal muscle.
X., cuticular ridge.
Yk.N., necleus of yolk cell.
Plate XVIII.
— All the figures refer to Apsihis vorax.
Fig.
1.
— Dorsal view; this and figs.
2-4 represent fully expanded individuals.
Figs.
2, 3.
— Lateral (from the right side) and ventral views respectively, the details of the alimentary tract not slio^Ti.
Fig.
4.
— Newly hatched immature individual, about one-third the size of the adult, the musculature and cuticula not shown.
Fig.
5.
— Left half of the mastax viewed from above.
Fig.
6.
— Cerebral ganglion and its nerves, sense-organs, anterior portion of the nephridia, and contiguous muscles.
Figs.
7, 8.
— Two consecutive transverse sections of a cerebral ganglion, camera drawing.
Plate XIX, Figs.
9-18.
— Stephanoceros fimbriahis.
Fig.
9.
— Trunk seen from the left side, only the proximal portions of the coronal arms and the foot shown, details of the mastax not drawn.
In this as in figs.
10 and 11 only the larger muscles are delineated, and those only in part.
Fig.
10.
— Dorsal view of trunk.
Fig.
11.
— Oblique ventral view of anterior trunk region with a portion of the coronal lobes.
Figs.
12, 13.
— The distal ends of two coronal arms, the first on dorsal and the second on lateral view.
Fig.
14.
— Distal end of foot with its peduncle.
Fig.
1.5.
— A nephridial flame cell.
Fig.
16.
— An entire individual enclosed within its gelatinous tube, ventral view, the larger longitudinal muscles sho'wn.
Fig.
17.
— Germarium, from a stained preparation.
Fig.
18.
— Mastax, postero-dorsal view.
Figs.
19-21, Floscularia ambigua.
Fig.
19.
— Germarium seen from left side of the body.
Fig.
20.
— Dorsal view of anterior body region, musculature and corona cilia not shown.
Fig.
21.
— Immature individual pressed from the egg, seen from the right side; the musculature and mastax not drawn.
Pl.\te XX, Figs.
22-24.
— Floscularia coroneUa.
Figs.
22, 23.
— Lateral (from the left side) and dorsal views of anterior portion of the body; the cilia of the coronal lobes not dra-s\Ti, and only a portion of the musculature.
Fig.
24.
— Posterior end of foot with its peduncle.
Figs.
25, 26.
— Floscularia conklini.
Fig.
25.
— Anterior portion of body seen from the left side, mastax not drawn, and only a portion of the musculature.
Fig.
26.
— The entire animal with its gelatinous tube, from the right side.
Figs.
27-35, Floscularia campanulata.
Fig.
27.
— Oblique ventral view of anterior trunk region, the nephridia not shown.
Fig.
28.
— A'iew from the left side; in this figure as in the preceding the coronal cilia are not shown.
Fig.
29.
— Germarium from a stained preparation, camera dra-wing.
Fig.
30.
— Germarium, oviduct and posterior portions of alimentary tract and nephridia of an immature individual.
Fig.
31.
— Antero-ventral view of the corona.
Fig.
32.
— Somewhat oblique lateral view of the cerebral ganglion and its nerves.
Fig.
33.
— A spermatozoon from body cavity of a female.
Figs.
34, 35.
— Oi^sophageal tube in two positions of movement.
Pl.\te XXI.
— AH the figures refer to Floscularia cam-panulata.
Fig.
36.
— A male from a tube of a female which contained 8 ova.
This mature male measured not more than the length of the dorsal coronal lobe of the female.
Viewed from the right side, the musculature and cuticula not drawii, from life.
Fig.
37.
— An entire individual within its gelatinous tube.
Fig.
38.
— Foot of an immature female, only about one-quarter the adult size, but attached.
Fig.
39.
— Mastax, dorsal view, muscles not drawn.
Fig.
40.
— Posterior end of foot and its peduncle of an adult individual.
Fig.
41.
— Nephridium of the right side of the body.
HISTORY OF THE CARIBBEAN ISLANDS FROM A PETROGRAPHIC POINT OF VIEW (Abstract).
by per3if0r frazer, d.es-sc.
Bibliography.^ Our knowledge of the geological history of the Antilles is still very imperfect.
Among the titles constituting the bibliography of this subject are : Topography and Geology of Santo Domingo.
Bv William M. Gabb.
Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc, XV, n. s. (1871).
Observations and a Physico-Geological Description of the Regions of Hahana and Guanabacoa.
Salterain, Madrid, 1880.
A Pamphlet and Geological Map of Cuba, by Don Manuel Fernandez de Castro, based on work commenced in 1869.
Madrid, 1881.
On the Mountains of Eastern Cuba.
W. O. Crosbj', 1882.
Archean Character of Rocks of the Nucleal Ranges of the Antilles.
Persifor Frazer.
Bath Meeting B.
A.
A, S., 1888.
Coleccion de apuntes sobre la riqueza minera de la prorincia de Santiago de Cuba.
Published by Juan E. Ravelo.
Sant.
de Cuba, 1893.
Reconstruction of the Antillean Continent.
J. W. Spencer.
Bull.
G. S. A., August 14, 1894.
Geographical Evolution of Cuba.
Id.
December 27, 1894.
Zur Geologie von San Domingo.
W. Bergt.
Abhandlung der naturw.
Gesell.
"Isis" in Dresden, 1897.
Cuba and Porto Rico, ivith the Other Islands of the West Indies.
Robert T. Hill.
The Century Co., New York, 1898.
(This last work is a compendium of information on the subject and contains an extensive bibliography of the less scientific and more descriptive treatises on the West Indies.)
At the Bath meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1888 I presented numerous rock specimens and thin sections cut from them, illustrating a region of about forty miles around Santiago de Cuba.
The rocks were partly eruptives and partly classic, but almost all exhibited profound alteration.
The thin sections from these eruptives were examined with me by Dr. Hensoldt, Mr. Kunz and Mr. La Croix in this country, and later by Mr. Teall, Mr. Rudler, the Abbe Renard, Prof. Judd and the lamented Prof. George H. Williams in London; all of whom were practically agreed as to the main constituents.
The specimens were divided into : A.
Those from the hills containing the West mine of the Jurugua ^ A more detailed statement of the observations, in the field and with the microscope, on which these conclusions are based will be published later.
— P. F. Iron Co., near Firmeza.
(1) Diorites, some of which contained much altered hornblende and viridite (chlorite), the thin shdes filled with microlites and the rocks traversed by epidote veins.
(2) Dolerites, diabase (gabbros), with chloritic ground mass, magnetite, rods of feldspar and some olivine.
B.
From the hills southeast of that in which the "East mine" was located and about fifteen miles northeast of Santiago de Cuba.
(1) Garnet rocks with iron ore (sp.
gravity 3.962).
(2) Fibrous actinolite, and brown iron oxides partially altered to an epidotic mass.
(3) Iron ores (some showing cross lines like the Widmanstatten figures in meteoric iron).
C. From the Sietes Altares, about thirty-five miles east of Santiago de Cuba.
Orthofelsite porphyry (rhyolites), like those erroneously referred to by the late Prof. H. D. Rogers as ''jasper," and later recognized by the late Dr. T. Sterry Hunt as a mixture to which he gave the general name " orthophyre " ; also like the Arvonian tuffs of Hicks, near St. David's Head, Pembrokeshire, Wales.
D. The specimens from the region of the La Plata mines were quartzites containing hornblende, iron ores and, among the incidental minerals, a claret-red garnet.
In the area described were found upon or associated with the eruptives sandstones, conglomerates and crystaUine limestones, laminated iron ores with masses of pyrites not yet converted into the latter.
The alteration of the areas of contact in these rocks by the more recent diorite dykes which cut them was evident.
From the character and relations of these rocks I deduced a physical continuity between the Archean of the mainland of the North American continent and the skeleton of the Cuban orographic system.
From the zoological and geological researches of Alexander Agassiz in Caribbean and Mexican waters, and the careful studies by Gabb, Crosby, Spencer and Hill, the probability of very great changes of level in the Antilles since the close of the Cretacic period was established, and this probability is fortified by several different fines of proof, i.e., the ledges and shelves of the island borders, the wide distribution of the white radiolarian limestones, etc., and finally petrographic examinations of material from the several islands.
Prof. Crosby pointed out orographic reasons for assuming a former " bridge " {i.e., causeway) between the Greater and Lesser Antilles.
As he says, the mountains of "the northern arm of the island of San Domingo point toward Cape Maysi on Cuba," and the northern range in Cuba "regains the western trend and points directly toward Yucatan."
He also alludes in Ms paper of December 13, 1882, to the "axis of old eruptive rocks" of which, so far as he has been able to learn, " each member of the group consists."
He does not give his authority for this statement nor say to what age he ascribes these eruptives; but if he contemplated the possibihty of its being pre-Cambrian he anticipated by six years two of the strongest grounds for my belief in the physical continuity of the Great and Little Antilles, and the present exposure of parts of the nucleus which are of great age and possibly have never been covered by sedimentary rocks.
His observation that this nucleus is flanked on either side by schists and slates has been fully confirmed, and I have been tempted to class these with the mica schists of the Appalachians, and the feldspar porphyry (rhyohtes) with the Arvonian tuffs of south Wales.
Dr. W. Bergt strongly supports the Archean age of the nucleal axis of San Domingo if not of all the Caribbean Islands in the following words ■?
"Das archaische Alter welches P. Frazer fiir die Centralketten des siidostlichen Cuba feststellen konnte, und das er fiir ganz Jamaika, fiir San Domingo, Puerto Rico, und die Windwardinseln vermuthete, kann nunmehr bestimmter fiir San Domingo angenommen werden."
It may be, as Mr. Hill suggests, that no "Paleozoic nucleal rocks" have been established with certainty in "Cuba and Santo Domingo" or any other of the border lands of the "American ^Mediterranean,"^ although de Castro imagined he had discovered such near Cienfuegos, yet this fact would not preclude the possibility that part of these nucleal rocks are pre-Cambrian.
To summarize the observations: (1) There is a complex of diorite, felsite and rhyolite forming the axes of the mountain ranges of eastern Cuba.
(2) With these are associated schists which in places assume a gneissoid character.
(3) The diorite and the clastic rocks resting on it are traversed by numerous veins of later eruptives, on the contact planes of which latter many phenomena of alteration may be observed.
(4) No such indications of alteration are apparent at the contacts with the older diorite mass, but, on the contrary, the sedimentary rocks seem to have been deposited upon it without disturbance.
^ "Zur Geologic von San Domingo."
Abh.
der naturw.
Gesel.
"Isis" in Dresden, 1897, Heft II, p. 64.
^ Cuba and Porto Rico, p. 384.
(5) All the rocks earlier than the intrusive veins, and even parts of these latter, show extensive alteration and probable transformation.
One purpose of this abstract is to recall the fact that we have proofs of physical connection with the Western Continent of these outlying islands, not only from the physiographic features ; drowned valleys ; submerged plateaus; trend of conformation through the major axes of the present detached islands ; palseontological analogy with South American forms of hfe; etc., but, in addition to all these, the close petrographical relationship of the crystallized and crystalline rocks and their congeners with those of the mainland.
Note.
A paper has just been received from Dr. Callaway (December 27, 1902) on the Plutonic complex of Central Anglesey,^ in which some very curious resemblances appear between the central complexes of Anglesey and Cuba, dissimilar as are the more recent mantles with which in the two cases these nuclei are clothed.
In 1880 Dr. Callaway, in entire accord with Dr. Hicks and many of the non-official geologists of Great Britain as well as of our compatriot.
Dr. T. Sterry Hunt, had established the pre-Cambrian age of these Anglesey rocks.
In 1888 the Rev.
J. F. Blake had confirmed a note previously made by Dr. Callaway of the production of schistosity in diorite by pressure.
In the eastern district of Anglesey Dr. Callaway considers felsite and diorite the materials out of which the gneiss was made: "but ■s^'ith them is associated the well-known binary granite (haphte) originally called Dimetian by the late Dr. Hicks.
A fourth variety .... is the quartz-felsite claimed by that geologist as Arvonian.
It forms a part of the same magma as the granite, and must be carefully distinguished from c^uartzless felsite, into which it is sometimes intruded in dykes and veins."
After dividing the diorite and its modifications into hornblende-gneiss, decomposed diorite and chlorite-gneiss, micaceo-chloritic gneiss, and kersantite and biotite-gneiss, he says of the felsite that he "has never succeeded in obtaining a specimen in its original state," and in analysis it is almost indistinguishable from Vom Rath's rhyolite of the Euganean Hills, and from a rhyolitic obsidian from Medicine Lake.
With the above are associated crystalhne limestones, of which the origin, according to Dr. Callaway, is chemical segregation and not sedimentation.
^ Quart.
Journ.
Geol Soc, Vol.
Iviii, 1902.
The granite (haplite) and quartz-felsite, according to him, are intruded into the diorite and felsite after the production of schistosity.
Seams of quartz and feldspar (haphte) alternate with seams of biotite and feldspar (modified diorite) when the veins lie in the planes of shearing of the diorite, and the result is a banded gneiss.
The quartz-felsite forms part of the same magma as the granite.
Of two thin slides of the gneiss formed by schistose felsite intersected by numerous granite veins, Prof. Bonney "thinks much of the mica secondary."
The paper concludes thus: " The following would seem to have been the sequence of events in the central complex.
Diorite was first consolidated.
It was then penetrated by masses and veins of felsite, and blocks of it were isolated from the main mass (or masses) and floated off into the felsite.
The consolidation of the felsite was the next stage.
Earth-pressures then affected both diorite and felsite, producing scliistosity.
A granite magma, usually haplite, sometimes quartzfelsite, then invaded the area, penetrating the diorite and the felsite in large masses, and sending into them countless veins, which commonly found their way along planes of schistosity, giving rise to banded gneisses."
Summary of Results.
"(1) The central complex of Anglesey was originally composed of diorite, felsite and granite.
(2) The diorite has been modified into an elliptical dome of dark gneiss, namely, into simple gneisses by pressure, and into complex gneisses by pressure plus granitic intrusion.
(3) The intrusion of the granite into the diorite has often produced fusion at the contact, sometimes with the generation of biotite in the diorite.
(4) The diorite and dark gneiss form an insular mass surrounded by granite.
(5) The felsite has been modified into quartzose and micaceous schists and gneisses by pressure, and into banded gneisses by the addition of granitic intrusions.
(6) The quartz-felsites of the area are a part of the granitic magma.
(7) Both diorite and felsite were modified into gneisses and schists prior to the intrusion of the granite and quartz-felsite, which are not foUated.".
401 POLYCHJETA FROM THE COASTAL SLOPE OF JAPAN AND FROM KAMCHATKA AND BERING SEA.
EY J. PERCY MOORE.
Hitherto our knowledge of Japanese Polychaeta has been hmited to collections made in the Httoral zone at several points along the southeastern coast between Yokohama and Nagasaki and ably described in three papers by v. Marenzeller, a few^ species from the Japan Sea described by Grube and Mcintosh, and to the results of about half a dozen dredge and trawl hauls made by the ''Challenger" at points off Japan, which have been recorded by Mcintosh.
At the close of an extended cruise in the South Pacific Ocean, the United States Fish Commission steamer "Albatross" spent the month of May and part of June, 1900, in dredging and trawHng along the continental slope of Japan.
During this cruise the vessel was in command of Captain J. F. Moser, U. S. N., with Dr. H. F. Moore as naturahst, to wdiom, and to Dr. H. M. Smith, of the Fish Commission, I owe the pleasure of studying the rich and interesting collection of Polychseta taken.^ During May a line of about seventy dredging stations was run along the coast of Nippon or Hanshu from Yokohama westward about 200 miles, through Sagami and Suruga Bays and the Totomi Sea.
These stations were mostly along the steep slope on the inner border of the Black Current, and about or within the 100-fathom hne, though the trawl was sometimes sent down to much greater depths.
In early June, ten additional stations were estabhshed along the coast of northern Nippon, beginning at the lower end of Sendai Bay and extending for about 120 miles northward, entirely within the 100-fathom line.
Later in June several dredgings were made in the shallow waters and muddy bottoms off Kamchatka, and others north of the Aleutian Islands in the southern portion of Bering Sea.
The details of location, depth, character of bottom, etc., will be found in a Hst of dredging records of the "Albatross" compiled by Mr. C. H. Townsend, and pubhshed in the Report of the U. S. Fish Commission for 1900.
In this paper it has been thought necessary to give only the depth and 1 Acknowledgment is due to Hon.
George M. Bowers, Commissioner of Fisheries, for permission to publish the results in this form.
26 general locality, together with a list of the station numbers at which each species was taken.
All of the species contained in the collection have been determined and, with the exception of the families Sahellkhc and Serpulidce.
and several species of other families which have been reserved for further study and comparison with material not now available, are recorded in the follo'^nng list.
A large number of species, either new or hitherto unreported from that region, are added to the Japanese fauna.
One of the surprises of this study has been the very small number of Marenzeller's species which were taken by the "Albatross."
Of the species previously known most of them belong to the circumboreal fauna, several were dredged by the "Challenger" at points off Japan, ajid the others have l^een recorded from various more or less distant parts of the world.
As Marenzeller has in preparation an account of the geographical relations of the Jaj^anese Polycha^ta, nothing more need be said on this subject.
The general results remind one of those attained by ^'errill along the Gulf Stream slope of North America.
POLYNOID^.
Harmotlioe imbricata (Linn.)
Mgrn, The setae of the two small specimens taken are colorless and the neuropodials slender.
Totomi Sea, 3,715, 65 fms.
; Totomi Sea, 3,725, 12-13 fms.
laenilla subfumida (Grube).
This is one of the very few Philippine species which have been found on the coast of Japan, from which it has not been hitherto recorded.
Sagami Bay, 3,702, 31-41 fms.
Polynoa semierma sp.
nov. (PI.
XXIII, figs.
2, 3.)
Form long and slender, composed of 64 somites and measuring 42 mm.
in length and 3 mm.
in breadth, exclusive of parapodia.
Unfortunately the prostomium is in a very bad state of preservation and much altered, with all of the appendages, excepting one palpus, lost and only their position indicated by scars.
The general shape of the prostomium is much as in Harmothoc, the anterior peaks being wellmarked, pointed and widely separated.
The left palpus has a length of four times the ^^•idth of the prostomimn and is slender and.
regularly tapering.
Two pairs of black, very small, circular eyes can be distinguished, one lateral, about the middle, the other dorsal, near the posterior margin of the head.
The protruded proboscis bears the usual jaws, but the papilla?
have been destroyed.
It has a length of 3.5 mm.
The parapodia are long and slender and especially so toward the caudal extremity.
Neuropodiiim conical, divided terminally into preand post-setal lobes, both prolonged dorsally, and the former the larger; ventral surface studded with large spherical papillae on short stalks.
Notopodium a small, slender, freely projecting process supported by a distinct aciculum.
Dorsal cirri with small ceratophores, and long, slender, regularly tapered styles which reach considerably beyond the setse tips anteriorly, but posteriorly, owing to shortening of the cirri and lengthening of the feet, fall short of the setse tips.
Ventral cirri short, less than ^ dorsal, thick basalty and slender terminally; posteriorly they undergo the same relative change of position as the dorsal, and for the same reason.
Only about i of the total number of elytra are in situ and are very easily detached, but the elytrophores indicate 25 pairs placed on the following somites: II.
IV.
V, then on alternate somites to XXIII, then on XXVI, XXIX, XXXII and XXXIV, and after that on every third somite to LXI.
They are small, leaving a large portion of the back exposed, delicate and usually much distorted, nearly circular, with central attachment ' and quite without papillse or hairs of any kind; the medial half is reddish-brown, the lateral unpigmented.
Notopodial setse are totally wanting, but there is a relatively stout tapering aciculum.
The neuropodial setse are disposed in about 9 close rows; all are nearly colorless and rather slender.
Those of the dorsalmost row or two form a distinct group which project beyond the others, and probably serve somewhat the purpose of the notopodial setse of other species ; their shafts are scarcely more than h the diameter of the other neuropodials and the ends are much prolonged and provided with close transverse rows of fine hairs quite to the simple tips.
The others have the usual form, the more dorsal ones with simple tips and as many as 14 transverse combs, the middle and ventral ones with a more or less prominent accessory tooth at the tip and shorter enlarged ends with as few as 8 combs on the most ventral setae.
Sagami Bay, 3.698, 153 fms.
Scalesetosus formosus sp.
nov. (PL XXIII, figs.
4, 5.
6.)
This s})ecies is referred to Mcintosh's genus on account of the form of the head and neuropodial setse, the latter being very characteristic ; in many other respects it departs widely from the generic type.
The single example on which the description is based is complete, but broken into three pieces, and with the scales detached.
At the posterior end is a small regenerating piece, but the form of that region, and especially the structure of the parapodia, indicates that it is of practically the normal length.
The form is slender and tapers ver}^ sUghtly to the caudal end.
The total length is 24 mm., the maximum width of the body 2 mm., and between the tips of the parapodia 4.5 mm.
Prostomium about as broad (across the ocular lobes) as long, marked for its entire length by a median dorsal groove wliich widens anteriorly to a broad and deep cleft separating the rounded frontal lobes or peaks ; the narrowest part of the prostomium is at the posterior border, anterior to which the lateral borders diverge, then swell out abruptly at about the middle as prominent rounded lobes which bear the anterior pair of eyes.
Ceratophores of tentacles nearly spherical, possibly the result of contraction ; the median crowded between the cephahc peaks into the frontal cleft; the lateral partly beneath the median and well below the peaks ; style of median antenna lost ; the lateral very short and thick, scarcely longer than its ceratophore, and its diameter equal to ^ its length, ovate pyriform and little pointed.
Palpi slender, tapered regularly to tip, about 2| times length of prostomium.
Eyes 2 pairs, both very large, especially the anterior, but hghtly pigmented, the anterior pair situated on the ocular lobes, the posterior shghtly caudad and mesiad, and nearly or actually in contact mth the anterior.
Tentacular cirri, or at least the ventral, which alone remain, about ^ as long as palpi, to which they have a similar form, with the distal half more slender.
There are 57 somites in addition to those in regeneration, and all but the peristomium and pygidium are setigerous.
Ventral surface smooth, sole-hke, with rounded margins separated from the bases of the parapodia by a groove on each side.
No visible nephridiopores or papillae.
Elytrophores prominent, nearly cylindrical or shghtly tapering; the median space of the back scarcely exceeding in width their diameter.
Parapodia large and prominent, similar throughout the series, except that the dorso-ventral diameter decreases toward the posterior end.
NeuropocUum much larger than notopodium, broad, flat, leaf-hke, its lateral margin broadly rounded, the ventral convex, and dorsal concave, so that as a whole it appears to have a slight curvatm-e dorsad; at the end it is split into two vertical plates, both, especially the posterior one, being very thin and embracing the bases of the setae between them for a considerable distance.
Notopodium a rounded lobe arising from the anterior side of the dorsum of the neuropodium about its middle.
Like the el5^rophores, the dorsal cirrophores are remarkably large; although arising much nearer the base of the parapodia they reach as far laterad as, and at the same time much dorsad to, the notopodia ; styles formed like the palpi but more slender, reaching scarcely beyond the tip of the nem'opodia.
Ventral cirri with short globular cirrophores placed about opposite to the notopodia; styles thickened basally but with filiform distal halves, and their tips just reaching the ventralmost neuropodial setre.
First ventral cirrus closely approaching the tentacular cirri in length.
Elytra 29 pairs, on II, IV, Y, then on alternating somites to XXI, then on XXII, XXIV, XX^'II, XXX.
XXXI and again on alternating somites to LVII; all are in symmetrical pairs, and are easily detached, which is the condition of most of them.
The first is nearly circular, the last somewhat triangular, the others broadly ovate with a sKght excentric posterolateral attachment.
They are thin, smooth, colorless and translucent; with a very distinct nerve ramifying from the rear of attachment in dendritic fashion throughout the scale ; there are no cilia nor papillae, but numerous pellucid dots are scattered over the surface, in the center of each of which a small sense-organ appears.
Notopodial setae few and irregularly arranged; they are short, reaching only half-way from their points of origin to the end of the neuropodium, slender, rather strongly curved, pointed and with transverse rows of excessively fine teeth along the convex border and half way or more around the seta.
Neuropodial setae arranged in a single vertical series which spreads in a broad fan-shaped figure, slightly separated into dorsal and ventral halves, slender and very long, probably quite equalling the parapodium when fully protruded, somewhat enlarged and bent below the slender, tapering, very finely serrulate, slightly hooked and undivided end ; at the region of the thickening is a half ring of long, fine, comb-like teeth supported on a slight shoulder, which is placed on the ventral side of the setae in the dorsal half of the bundle and the dorsal side of those in the ventral half.
The most ventral setae have shorter, stouter and more strongly hooked tips.
Both notopodial and neuropodial setae are colorless and beautifully transparent.
The setae of the first setigerous foot differs in no appreciable respect from the others.
Only the type knoTvm from Sta.
3,703, Sagami Bay, 31 fms.
Lepidonotus cMtoniforinis spnov. (PI.
XXIII, figs.
10, 11.)
Form short and broad, with a regular elliptical outline, depressed; the greatest width, whether measured between the tips of the setae or the margins of the body, at the middle.
The type measures 37 mm.
long, 16 mm.
wide, and 6 mm.
deep.
Prostomium roughly square, the anterior and lateral margins slightly convex, the posterior concave; a pair of prominent posterior lateral ocular lobes, and the production of the anterior face into the lateral tentacular ceratophores modify this form.
Eyes 2 pairs; the anterior large and partly on the base of the posterior lateral lobes, as a consequence of which they face both forward and outward ; the posterior are about ^ the diameter of the anterior and are situated nearly on the dorsal surface close to, but slightly mesiad and caudad of, the ocular lobes.
Ceratophore of median tentacle about f as long as prostomium, stout and distally swollen; style 4 times length of prostomium, slender, slightly tapering, with an abrupt egg-shaped subterminal enlargement having the large end distad, and followed by a terminal filament of equal or shghtly greater length.
Lateral tentacles similar in form to the median but only about f as long, and the ceratophore only ^ as long as that of the former.
The colors of the tentacles are well preserved and striking in their contrast with the colorless head; the ceratophores are ringed with yellowish-brown, the basal half of the style strongly tinged \\ath brown, the proximal half of the subterminal enlargement deep brown, and the rest pure white.
Palpi about equalling median tentacle, rather stout, but their bases not enlarged nor extending laterally beyond prostomium, gently tapering, abruptly sharp pointed, but without terminal filament, densely ciliated, basal half pale brown.
Peristomial parapodium long, slender, reaching to the level of the tip of the tentacular ceratophore.
Tentacular cirri similar in form and color to the tentacles but \vith somew^hat longer terminal filaments, the dorsal equalling the median tentacle, the ventral somewhat shorter.
There are 26 somites, of w^hich 25 bear setse and 12 elytra.
The nephridial tubercles occupy the usual position and point strongly laterad and slightly ventrad and caudad ; the last pair, on XXVI, are in contact mesially and all except the first, on VI, are prominent.
Prominent dorsal papillae occur on all the somites from II to XX inclusive, being median on II and on X^' to XX, and in double paramedian series on III to XIV inclusive.
The first one is a low, flat, nearly c{uadrate nuchal tubercle which somewhat overlaps the prostomium from behind ; from III to XIV each somite bears a larger anterior and a smaller posterior pair; on III those of each pair are close together and united by slight transverse ridges; the others are well separated, the median interspace increasing in width with the segments ; somites XV to XIX have each a single larger anterior and a smaller posterior papilla, and XX the large one alone.
The elytrophores are large and shaped like the body of an oyster or even more like the human external ear viewed from the cephalic side.
On the cirri-bearing somites are smaller, and structurally somewhat simpler, but essentially similar structures, through which transverse muscles pass into the parapodia and dorsal cirri.
As will be indicated below, they bear branchial filaments similarly to the ely trophores, with which they are obviously homologous.
Branchial filaments occur on every somite from III to XXIV inclusive, except XXIII, the last somite bearing elytra, and minute rudiments on the anterior side even of XXV and XXVI.
They appear to be mere hollow integumental sacs generally of simple finger-hke form.
On elytra-bearing somites they are disposed as follows : One arises from the antero-external and one from the postero-external margin of the elytrophore.
The former is present on every elytrophore except the first antl last, is unbranched but bends sharpl}^ laterad at a right angle.
The latter is longer, and on typical somites divides into a short medial and a long lateral branch diverging at right angles from the short stem ; it is altogether absent on the first and the medial branch is wanting on the 11th and a few of the anterior ely trophores.
On the parapodium are 2 dorsal, 5 or 6 anterior and 4 or 5 posterior filaments (in addition to 1 or 2 rudimentary ones on the base of the ely trophores), the most ectal one in each case being bifid.
Anterior to the 5th and posterior to the 11th elytra-bearing somite this arrangement is simplified by reduction in the number of filaments.
Essentially the same arrangement obtains on the cirribearing somites, but the filaments are more numerous, larger and sometimes even trifid.
The elytrophore filaments are represented anteriorly by 2 simple ones, and posteriorly by 3, of which the middle one is bifid.
There are usually 5 dorsal parapodial filaments, of which one at the base of the cirrus, like the most external on the anterior and' posterior faces of the parapodia, is usually trifid.
The parapodia are stout, with the neuropodium of a somewhat compressed, obliriuely truncated conical form and the notopodium a rather prominent short tubercle on the anterior dorsal face near the base of the parapodium.
The ventral surface of the parapodia, and indeed of the entire body, is covered with a close nap of short, fine processes.
Ventral cirri with low tubercle-like ceratophores borne on the middle of the ventral neuropodial surface; their styles short, scarcely reaching half-way to the end of the foot, the basal half stout and swollen, the distal tapered to a sharp point, but with no proper filament.
The dorsal cirri are quite long, their filamentous tips at least reaching quite beyond the setse line; they have exactly the shape and color of the tentacular cirri, but on the base of each is a prominent bilobed glandular swelling; the last pair, instead of being longer, is shorter than the others; otherwise both ventral and dorsal cirri present the usual modifications toward the end of the body.
The very regular outUne of the body, when seen from above, is due to the dense tufts of dorsal setae which project beyond the margins of the scales and conceal all but the tips of the ventral setse, and from l^elow to the remarkably even arrangement of the neuropodia and the ^Tntral setse.
The dorsal setse are very numerous and spread chiefly in a horizontal plane, but in such a way as to overlap successively from behind forward.
They are very delicate, capillary, tapering from base to tip and furnished with fine but distinct opposite or nearly opposite processes of a length 3 to 4 times the diameter of the stem.
The ventral setse are arranged in very regular horizontal rows, 7 or 8 of which are subacicular and 2 supraacicular ; except the dorsalmost and ventralmost rows, which have fewer, each contains 4 setse.
They are of a beautiful pale amber color, and transparent, moderately stout, shghtly curved and with the tip smooth and strongly hooked.
As in Euphione they are densely bearded toward the end, about -gor j, according to the position of the seta, of the exposed part being provided with numerous rows of long fine hairs, the terminal ones of which curve backward and envelop the tips.
On the first setigerous somite the ventral setse are slender and tapering, with a close beard of fine hairs.
Twelve pairs of elytra are borne on somites II, IV, \.
^ II, IX.
XI, XIII, XV, XVII, XIX, XXI, and XXIII.
They are large, strongly imbricate and decussate, and so close-fitting that their boundaries can scarcely be distinguished except at the margins; the attachment to the elytrophores is unusually firm.
The first is irregularl}' circular with a nearly central scar, the last roughly triangular, and the others more or less bean-shaped, the more anterior ones being deeply emarginated and asymmetrical.
The 7th is the largest and the size falls off each way to the 1st and 11th, the 12th again becoming larger.
Cilia form a strong marginal fringe around more than f of the circumference of the scale, only the covered anterior portion being free ; they are longest and coarsest on the lateral half of the anterior border, from which large papillse are wanting, and where they are about equal to the longest papillae present on the scale ; a small group of rather large ones occurs also on the medial margin.
Small cilia are scattered sparingly over the greater part of the exposed surface of the scales and are larger and more numerous on the area external to the scar ridge.
The papillae are remarkable for their size and form, and cover the entire upper surface.
The anterior medial region and a narrow area along the anterior lateral border bear only small, low, smooth papillae; from these areas they gradually differentiate into several distinct forms.
Lower flat papillae with from 4 to 8 peripheral radiating spines occur chiefly on the postero-lateral half ; a few especially large examples of this type which lie just behind the scar ridge may bear 1 or 2 apical spines in addition to the peripheral ones.
Smooth globular papillae without spines are occasionally found with the latter.
Along the scar ridge are 1 to 3 (of which the mesial one is the largest and most characteristic) very large papillae having the form of an irregular inverted cone, the enlarged end of which is thickh' studded with rough processes.
On the entire area between the lateral end of the scar ridge and the postero-lateral margin are numerous large, pale or colorless, erect, clavate papillae with slender pedicels, and studded with peculiar rough scaly nubs.
A single marginal rank of similar but larger, recumbent and usually brown papillae extends around the entire postero-internal border.
The papillae vary much in color; those on the ridge are generally yellowish-browm, the others varying shades of yellowish-gray, gray with yellow spines, brown or nearly l^lack.
The darkest are usually found in a small group just mesiad of the scar ridge.
The 1st scale bears a central group of the large rough papillae and a complete marginal circle of clavate ones, beneath which is a circle of short cilia.
The last has club-shaped papillae on its lateral margin only, and nearly its internal half is free from cilia.
When the scales are in place the entire animal presents a striking superficial resemblance to a Chiton.
The rough scale ridges converge in each pair to form a series of \'s pointing forward.
T}T3e, Sagami Bay, 3,700,63 fms.
; Totomi Sea, 3.733, 49 fms.
; also one from an unknown station.
Lepidonotus branchiferus sp.
nov. (PI.
XXIII, figs.
7.
8, 9.)
Outline short, broad, elliptical, very regular, somewhat depressed.
Length 26.5 mm., width to tips of setse 14 mm., to margins of scales 11 mm., depth 6 mm.
Prostomium decidedly wider than long, its lateral margins wdth prominent preocular protuberances, making this the broadest region; eyes two pairs, rounded, black, the anterior much the larger and more prominent, the posterior distant from them less than their own diameter mesiad and caudad.
Median tentacle with stout cjdindrical basal piece slightly shorter than prostomium ; style about 4 times the length of prostomium, tapering to a slender region beyond which is a subterminal ball and a short terminal filament.
Lateral tentacles with ceratophores less than ^ that of median tentacle, and continuous with frontal processes of head, which are shghtly dorsad of the level of the median ceratophore; style similar in form to median bnt with a relatively longer terminal filament which reaches only to the median ball.
Palpi with very broad, widely separated bases, fully half of which project beyond the sides of the head ; otherwise they are similar in form to the palpi of L. cJiitoniformis; basal -f brown, the rest white.
Peristomial parapodia not cpiite reaching to tip of median tentacular ceratophore; the dorsal tentacular cirrus, which alone remains in the only specimen, similar in form to median tentacle, but with a longer filament, and the entire style slightly shorter.
The protruded proboscis has a length of 6 mm, and a diameter of 3.7 mm.
It bears four light brown fang-like jaws of the usual form, and thirteen papillae above and thirteen below, all but the small lateral ones, which are simple, being strongly curved, compressed and bilobate.
There is also a transversely elongated low subterminal ventral papilla*.
Total number of somites, including peristomium, 26; setigerous somites 25; elytra 12 pairs.
Nephridial pai^illae may be detected as far forward as IV, but the first 3 are very small, the others exactly as described for chitoniformis.
Except that the difference in size between the anterior and posterior ones of the dorsal series is less evident, the dorsal tubercles are exactly as in L. chitonijormis.
No important differences are to be noted in the form and structure of the elytrophores.
The branchiae have the same arrangement as in L. chitoniformis and, although fewer and simpler, are larger and more conspicuous than in that species.
All are rather long and slender and entirely unbranched, and are directed more or less latei'ad and dorsad.
None occurs on the dorsum of the parapodium.
On the elytra-bearing somites one arises from each the posterior and anterior Ijorder of the elytrophore, the former being somewhat the larger and more laterad.
On the anterior face of the parapodium is a series of about 3, arranged along a line from the one mentioned above to the base of the ventral cirrus, to which, however, it does not reach ; one or two smaller detached processes may lie ventrad of the middle of this series.
On the posterior face usually 3 in a group are found below the outer end of the elytrophore, at a lower level than the anterior series.
On the cirrhiphorous somites the arrangement differs slightly.
A short anterior one arises from the border of the ridge passing to the cirrus ; an oblique series of 4 occurs on the anterior face of the parapodium.
Posteriorly there are two marginal, a cirral which arises from the base of the cirrus in actual contact with its posterior gland, and 2 or 3 others lower down on the posterior face of the parapf)diuin.
Toward the ends of the body the number of branchial filaments diminishes.
The parapodial dorsal and ventral cirri are much the same as in L. chitinoformis , but the dorsal cirrus is somewhat shorter, just barely reaching the ventral setse tips; its knob is generally more spherical, and its basal glands, while similarly arranged, much longer.
Both dorsal and ventral setse are similar in their arrangement to those of L. chitoniformis .
The former are shorter than in that species, leaving the entire bearded portion of the ventral setse exposed from above, and are more slender, softer and more densely provided with longer lateral processes, which are arranged either in tufts or whorls, the exact arrangement being uncertain owing to the presence of an incrustation of foreign matter.
The latter are somewhat stouter, with shaggier beards of fewer rows of hairs; one was found with a terminal sheath still partly in place.
In number, arrangement, form, and even in the character of their papillae and cilia, the elytra of this species approximate those of L. chitoniformis.
The chief difference lies in the larger size of the granules and the strong tendency of the papillae to become spinous.
The papillae immediately surrounding the low scar ridge are of a stellate form with long, sharp-pointed rays bearing one or more conical spinous on the upper side.
The largest of this tj^pe are posterior to the ridge, where occur also a few nearly globular papillae bearing a single long conical spine.
On the medial side of the scar ridge these papillae become gradually more irregular and oblique, finally passing into the smaller papillae whose pointed summits are directed toward the posterior margin of the scales.
Toward the covered area of the scale all papillae become smaller and smoother, and soon low, rounded and colorless.
Clavate papillae occur in the lateral area, and in a postero-lateral marginal row ; they are relatively smaller and much more slender than in L. chitoniformis and bear numerous prominent conical points instead of rough nubs.
The erect ones of the lateral area bear a number of spines, varying with the size of the papilla, along all parts of their sides and summits, whereas the reclining ones of the marginal row have spines on the upper or exposed surface only.
Over the region of the scar, in addition to the stellate papilke, which there attain their maximum size, are from 4 to 6 particularly prominent papillae crowned with numerous short spines arranged in a tuft.
In spite of their roughness all of the papillae, even the largest, are soft.
The covei'ed i3ortions of the scales and the lateral zone are colorless, the middle and posterior parts yellowish-brown, against which the various colored papilkifi stand out clearly.
The larger papillae are chocolate-brown, recldishbrown, yellowish-brown, partly brown and partly yellow, or, in striking contrast, white, and it is very seldom that two adjacent ones are of the same color.
One specimen, type, Sta.
3,702, Sagami Bay, 31-43 fms.
L. branchiferus and L. chitoniformis are evidently closely related to L. giganteus Ivirk from New Zealand which, according to Thomson, possesses essentially similar branchiae and dorsal tubercles, and exhibits additional features of resemblance in the elytra and sette.
In a number of respects all three depart from the typical species of Lepidonotus and might very properly be segregated as a distinct generic group.
Lepidonotus branchiata (Treadwell) from Porto Rico possesses similar branchiae, but the setae and elytra are quite different and no reference is made in the description to dorsal tubercles.
Lepidonotus caelorus sp.
nov. (PI.
XXIII.
fig.
12.)
The form is, as usual in the genus, short and compact, but much more slender than the 2 species just described; the largest specimen measures 25 mm.
long, exclusive of the tentacles and anal cirri, and 8 mm.
wide to the tips of the setae.
Number of somites 26.
25 bearing setigerous parapodia, and 12 elytra.
Ventral surface smooth, with nephridial papillae from ^TII to XXV inclusive; all but the first are prominent and tubular and project freely caudo-laterad.
Prostomium slightly wider than long, though the continuation of the peaks into the bases of the lateral tentacles gives it a somewhat elongated aspect.
Eyes normall}' 2 pairs, which have coalesced in the type; the posterior near the caudal end of the lateral surface, but not concealed by the nuchal fold, looking latero-dorso-caudad, heavy black, circular; the anterior lateral, at the point of greatest width, looking latero-dorsad, larger than the posterior and elliptical or crescentric, black.
Except the palpi the cephahc appendages are very easily displaced, and the median tentacle is present in the type alone.
Its total length is about 5 times the head, of which ^ is made up of the basal piece and yV of the filamentous tip; l^asal piece constricted at the middle, the proximal portion more opaque and smoother; style slender throughout and tapering to a slightly subterminal enlargement, beyond which it diminishes suddenly to the filiform tip.
The lateral tentacles are more often preserved and vary considerably in length.
They have the same general form as the median tentacle, but are longer and decidedly more slender, with the subterminal enlargement scarcely evident, and the filiform tip longer (up to ^ of the entire length) ; the basal piece, which is continuous with the prostomial lobes, is shghtly shorter, and arises at a shghtly more ventral level.
Palpi about 3 times length of prostomium, tliickened basally, tapered to end, which bears a very short terminal filament.
The peristomium presents no noteworthy features.
Tentacular cirri similar to lateral tentacles, the dorsal somewnvhat exceeding median tentacle, the ventral slightly shorter; the slender parapodium, which supports them, reaching beyond the tentacular basal pieces.
The typical parapodium (X) presents the following features: neuropodium large, nearly truncate or slightly angulated at the point from which the deep brown aciculum protrudes, ventral margin horizontal, dorsal sloping with a slight curve to the elytrophore ; notopodium amere lobe on antero-dorsal face of neuropodium, supported by a slender aciculum.
A'entral cirri with a short filiform appendage, the tip of which falls short of the bases of the neuropodial setce ; dorsal cirri borne on prominent ceratophores which have a dorso-caudad position with relation to the foot, similar in form to the tentacular cirri, about 2^ times as long as the ventral cirri, of which length the ceratophore constitutes -J.
The ventral cirrus of the 1st foot is, as usual, longer; on the last two the dorsal ceratophores become posterior; the last foot lacks the notopodium, or at least the notopodial setae.
The anal cirri are the longest appendages of the body, fully twice the dorsal cirri, and bear very long filiform tips.
Twelve pairs of elytra are borne, on somites II, III, IV, VI, VHI, X, XII, XIV, XVI, XMII, XXI and XXI^^ They are strongly imbricated and tough, membranous and firmly attached.
With the exception of the first and last they are elongate-pyriform, or more ovate posteriorly, attached posterior to the middle, and with the slender pre-peduncular portion covered by the preceding scale; the first is broadly ellipsoidal, the last roughly triangular with the longest side mediad and the angles rounded.
With the exception of a narrow smooth area at the anterior end, the entire dorsal surface of the scale is thickly clothed with papillae of various kinds.
Anteriorly are a few small conical spines with apices directed obliquely toward the posterior margin of the scale.
Farther back they become larger and more numerous and distinctly differentiated into two forms distributed to the internal and external halves of the scale.
On the external area they remain smaller and depart less from the simple conical form, but most of them develop a few jagged points at the apex and become more elevated, especially those of a marginal series, which are larger and somewhat clulj-shaped.
On the internal area a gradual transition into larger, rounded, rough papillae takes place, especially over the area of attachment where this kind occiu's nearly exclusively; but elsewhere they are interspersed with papilla3 of the same type as, but larger than, those of the external area.
The large papillce are of a globular or haycock form and reach a diameter of 10 or even 20 times that of the spines.
Their surface markings are very peculiar and characteristic, somewhat resembling the chasing of a cane or umbrella head, but rougher than such work is customarily.
>Sometimes the markings are very regularly arranged in rows converging to the apex, and may then be simply roughened ridges and grooves, or rows of overlapping scales or even spines.
The first and last elytra are the roughest of all and have the largest papillae.
A strong fringe of long cilia marks the posterior external margin of typical scales and nearly encircles (except for a small part of the internal margin) the first.
The longest have a length of about ^ or | of the greatest transverse diameter of the scales, but become much shorter on approaching the mesial side, along the wdiole exposed })ortion of which they are continued as integumental sense-organs of gradually diminishing length.
The notopodial setae form a large spreading tuft, but their tii:)S scarcely reach beyond the end of the neuropodium ; they are pale hay color, capillary, bipinnate, with the lateral processes alternating.
Owing to a constant coating of foreign substances few details can ])e made out.
Neuropodial sette arranged in 3 supraacicular and 5 subacicular horizontal row«, amber-colored, relatively slender, with the smooth tips unusually long, and except on the most dorsal, exceeding the spinous portion in length ; 4 transverse rows of spines on the ventralmost setae, 9 on the dorsalmost.
Some color is retained in the elytra, which are yellow or l^rown, sometimes with an irregular greenish blotch surrounding a pale area opposite the point of attachment, the larger papillae usually dark brown.
The dorsal cirri and all cephalic appendages, with the exception of the palpi, have a broad zone of dark green pigment above the base, and a deeper but narrower one just proximad of the subterminal enlargement.
LcpkJonotus caiorus somewhat resembles L. pleiolepis von Marenzeller, but differs especially in the numerous spheroidal papillae on the elytra and the more slender form and longer smooth tips of the neiu'opoclial setae.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms., type and 8 other specimens; Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms.
Xepidonotus (Hylosynda) vexillarius sp.
nov. (PI.
XXIII.
fl<;s. 1:5.
14, 13.)
A rather slender species, measuring 23.5 mm.
in length.
2.5 mm.
in maximum breadth of body on the ventral surface of X.
4 mm.
to ends of parapodia, and 5.5 to tips of setse.
Prostomiimi slightly wider than long, sides smoothly convex without any prominent lateral lobes, posterior margin for its middle half continuous with peristomium.
frontal sinus very shallow.
Eyes 2 pairs, black, circular; the anterior larger and situated close to lateral margins at widest part of head; posterior on postero-lateral curvature, looking ■caudad, dorsad and laterad.
^ledian tentacle arises from dorsal sinus nearly on the level of the dorsal surface of the prostomium; its ceratophore about f as long as prostomium.
white with a very conspicuous circular light brown spot covering most of the dorsum of the basal half; style scarcely three times as long as prostomium, of graceful form, tapering very gradually for the first f , then increasing even more gradually to near the end of the next f , then suddenly rounding off and bearing a delicate terminal filament, which makes up the final ^; colors very pretty, rather dark brown at the base but fading gradually to white, with a deep brown, sharply-defined ring on the basal half of the subterminal enlargement, the remaining half and the terminal filament white.
Ceratophores of lateral tentacles continuous with frontal processes of head, on the same level as the median ceratophore but only t ^s long and little more than h as thick ; styles twice the length of the prostomium, of nearly equal diameter to the median tentacles, and terminal filament constituting nearly ^ of their length ; ceratophore dark brown, contrasting strongly with the colorless prostomium, a very narrow terminal white ring, styles colored as on median tentacle.
Palpi reach to base of terminal filament of median tentacle, their bases broad, mostly concealed from above by the tentacular ceratophores and buccal parapodia, taper rapidly in a concave outline to a rather slender terminal half ending in a short filament; pale brown throughout.
Peristomial parapodia of the usual form.
Tentacular cirri with styles similar to median tentacle in form and color, but with longer filament; the dorsal exceeds the ventral by the length of its filament and equals the median tentacle.
There are 36 somites, exclusive of the pygidium, of which 35 are setigerous.
Body smooth both dorsally and ventrally, the neural depression well marked and about as wide as the muscle ridges.
No nephridial tubercles can be detected, but small dark spots in their usual position appear to be pores.
Dorsum of the first 12 somites marked with brown spots of diminishing size, a small brown postanal spot, rest of body colorless.
The 2cl parapodium (1st setigerous) is, as usual, shorter and its ventral cirrus longer than the others, but is peculiar in this species in that it is wddely separated from the 3d and projects forward by the side of the mouth.
Its ventral cirrus is quite distinct from the foot, and arises from a lobe which is carried forward to a position partly beneath the base of the palp, so that it actually arises between the tentacular cirrus and the palp.
Typical parapodia moderately developed, with short, thick, obtuse neuropodia and fairly well-developed notopodia occupying the usual position; neuropodial aciculum especially stout, a slight angulation of the foot at the point of its emergence.
Dorsal cirri with prominent postero-dorsal ceratophores and stout erect styles mth a slight subterminal enlargement and flowing terminal filament ; each marked at about the middle with a • blackish-brown ring ; if depressed they would reach just beyond the tips of the ventral setae.
Toward the posterior end they become more slender and lose the subterminal enlargement; the last 3 diminish rapidly in length, and are carried horizontally behind with the pair of anal cirri, which are similarly formed, but the largest appendage of the body, and in addition to the middle brown ring, have a narrow basal one.
The 18 pairs of elytra occur on II, IV, V, and every alternate somite to XXVII inclusive, then on XXVIII, XXX, XXXI and XXXIII.
The first is orbiculo-quadrate, the next two slightly emarginate, the following ones obliquely ovate with the posterior internal margin more strongly convex than the antero-external ; the point of attachment is a little caudad of the middle of the long axis and somewhat toward the antero-external border.
A dense fringe of cilia extends over about ^ of the lateral margin of each, principally that part which projects freely at the sides; the entire dorsal surface is thickly covered with small angulated or prismatic papillae with thickened cuticle, w^hich are very densely aggregated in a narrow zone contiguous to the ciliated margin of the scale ; 1 or 2 papillae of the same form but 4-5 times as large may also be present.
The 1st scale is peculiar in the character of its papillae, many of which are tall, slender cones of various sizes, about five or six of them being very large, with a height almost equal to the short diameter of the scar.
A few similar but smaller papillae may occur on the 2d, 3d and last scales.
Most of the elytra have merely a small but very conspicuous brown spot over the place of attachment, but the anterior ones are blotched, and the posterior speckled, with brown.
Notopodial setae colorless, in 2 groups, the anterior of about six, very short, stout, strongly curved, with a short smooth tip and strongly serrate convex margin, the teeth becoming smaller basally.
Those of the posterior and more ventral group more nimierous and about 4 times as long, relatively slender, pointed, straight or shghtly curved, closely and doubly pinnate with short fine processes.
Neuropodial sets about 20, in 2 irregular vertical rows, rather stout, shghtly bent but scarcely enlarged at the end, the long smooth, simple, shghtly curved point nearly as long as the serrated portion, especially on the ventrahnost setse; teeth of terminal row very large and prominent, followed by from 5-9 rows of smaller ones diminishing toward the base.
Known from the type only, Totomi Sea, 3,729, 34 fms.
Hylosynda carinata sp.
nov. (PI.
XXIII, figs.
16, 17.)
A large species here described from an anterior fragment, consisting of the prostomium and 26 anterior somites, with a length of 26 mm.
and a breadth of 10.5 mm.
between the setse tips of X, where the body has a wddth on the ventral surface of 6 mm.
Prostomium very short, twice as wide as long, though this ratio may be due in part to contraction; anterior margin with a deep median sulcus, on each side of which are the broadly rounded lobes that pass into the bases of the lateral tentacles ; lateral margins strongly convex, and posterior nearly straight.
Eyes 2 pairs, black, circular; the anterior facing laterad and slightly dorsad at about the middle of the lateral faces; posterior about i the diameter of anterior, widely separated, but a httle mediad of lateral, on the posterolateral curvature of the prostomium.
Ceratophore of median tentacle arising from frontal sulcus, its length about equalling prostomium, stout, with a distinct terminal ring; style about U times the length of the prostomium, slightly enlarged near the end, then suddenly contracted into a short terminal filament, which, with the distal portion of the enlargement, is white, the rest, including the ceratophore, coffee-brown.
Ceratophores of lateral tentacles continuous with frontal lobes, f the length of median ceratophore, and of the same shape and color; style similar to median style but more slender, and the relatively longer terminal filament reaching to the beginning of the white zone of the median style.
Palpi a trifle longer than lateral tentacles, the base stout, their greatest diameter about ^ prostomium, the terminal half rather slender with a very short terminal filament; longitudinal cihated ridges very strongly developed, 2 medial, and 1 each dorsal, lateral and latero-ventral ; surface marked by irregular wrinkles which are of a much deeper brown color than the intervening areas.
Pharynx stout, short, when protruded equal to 27 the prostomium and first 5 somites only; the jaws as usual, no median tooth; papillae ^ large, bilobed.
Peristomial parapodium reaches level of median tentacular ceratophore; st3des similar to tentacles in form and color; the dorsal slightly longer, the ventral equalling median in diameter and slightly exceeding lateral in length.
Ventral surface of body smooth, the neural groove well marked, and anteriorly equal in width to the lateral muscle bands.
Nerve cords in contact throughout length.
Some of the somites are filled with purplish eggs.
Parapodia prominent, but their length not exceeding f width of body.
Neuropodia taper toward slightly divided end which slopes dorsad to a broadly rounded tip ; anterior lobe slightly larger and receiving the aciculum ; a slight subterminal constriction.
Notopodium small but prominent, on dorso-anterior face slightly distad of middle of parapodium, supported by a strong aciculum and bearing a few setse.
The dorsal cirri have very prominent ceratophores which are erect, curved laterad and sujiported on posterior margin of dorsal surface of parapodia ; they resemble the tentacular cirri in form, color and size and fully ^ of their length reaches beyond the corresponding setae.
The ventral cirri arise from low ceratophores about opposite the notopodia; the styles are slender and reach to the subterminal neuropodial constriction.
Only a few anterior elytra remain.
They occur on the usual somites, and are dehcate and membranous, but rather firmly attached.
The 1st pair is missing; succeeding ones are broadly and nearly regularly reniform, with small elliptical areas of attachment so near to the lateral margins that fully f of each scale is free medially, permitting them to overlap broadly.
Margins smooth and non-cihate.
Dorsal surface punctate with distant sensory spots, and smooth except for an anterior border, broadest at the emargination, bearing small, low, faintly keeled crowded papillae; most of the scales bear a prominent, more or less serrate crest extending from a point just over the mediocaudad margin of the scar toward, but not to, the posterior margin ; frequently a similar but slighter ridge runs from the main one at an angle of 30°-45° laterad and caudad, or almost exactly in the direction of the dorsal cirrus of the following somite.
The general surface of the scales is a delicate pale mottled brown, the crests a deeper brown.
Only 3 or 4 notopodial setae occur in a small tuft which arises from the anterior surface of the base of the notopodium, and fails by a considerable distance to reach the end of the latter; they are rather stout for their length, slightly curved and tapering, but not sharppointed, the outer half marked with transverse rows of rather coarse serrulge.
Neiiropodial setae in 2 or 3 vertical rows between ensheathing lips ; pale amber color, free end enlarged for a greater distance on the ventralmost setse, curved slightly dorsad, the tip bifid, the longer terminal process curved but not hooked, the ventral spur straight, large and continuous with the distal comb, transverse combs 12-17, and, with the exception of a few proximad of the enlargement, all with long teeth.
The station at which the type was taken is unknown; a fragment also occurs in the collections from Sta.
3,708, Suruga Bay, 60-70 fms.
Hylosynda magnacornuta sp.
nov. (PI.
XXIII, fig.
18.)
A slender species described from a fragment consisting of the head and 26 somites.
Prostomium about H times as long as broad, but the prominent muscular ridges which extend from its sides to the peristomial parapodia make it appear much broader, about twice as broad as long if these are included in the measurement.
A median dorsal groove divides both anterior and posterior margins, but fades out at the vertex, anterior lobes broadly rounded, continuous with the bases of the lateral tentacles.
Eyes 2 pairs, widely separated, small, black; anterior pair slightly the larger, lateral in position and nearer the anterior than posterior margin of the head, scarcely visible from above.
Posterior pair smaller, entirely dorsal, separated from posterior border by al)out twice their diameter and from each other by about 7 times their diameter.
Tentaclestylesalllost,theirceratophoressmall,the lateral slightly more dorsal than the median and arising without any definite boundary from the anterior prostomial lobes; all sharply distinguished from the colorless head by thin deep chocolate bases.
Palpi very large, about 6 times the length of the head and at thickest part more than | its width, the base constricted at its point of origin beneath the prostomium, gradually thickened to the end of the first fourth and then tapered to the long slender tip.
Proboscis protruded, equal to head and 1st 11 somites; besides the dark brown paired long claw-like jaws, there is a small, low, conical, nearly black median dorsal and a similar ventral tooth; papillie |, sharp-pointed, scarcely bilobed.
Tentacular cirri lost.
Ventral surface of body smooth.
Neural groove about | the width of the lateral muscle areas anteriorly, diminishing to ^ posteriorly.
The two halves of the nerve cord widely separated as far as somite XI or XII, then gradually approaching but not completely united within the limits of this specimen.
Nephridial tubercles begin on V, soon becoming conspicuous and standing out freely from the base of the parapodia.
The last 7 somites present have their parapodia packed with whitish eggs.
Parapodia long, exceeding the dorsal width of the body except at its widest part, slender, tapering with a gentle curve to the slightly bilobed tip, the distal end oblique with a rather acute dorsal angle.
The neuropodium, which forms the greater part of the parapodium, as just described, is divided by a vertical cleft into two plates, which are not so widely separated as in Scalesetosus, though that condition is approached anteriorly; anterior lobe the larger and receives the end of the rather strongly ciu'ved aciculum.
The notopodium is a rudimentary nipple-like process which bears no setae but receives the end of a slender aciculum.
No important variations of the parapodia beyond the usual diminution in size occur toward the ends of the body.
Except for a minute regenerating one on XV all of the elytra have been lost.
The neuropodial setse are perfectly colorless, dehcate and brittle, but not especially slender in proportion to their length ; the end rather abruptly enlarged, shghtl}' curved and tapering to a bifid extremity, the terminal process of which is larger and slightly hooked; immediately proximad of the 2d one or spur are 9-14 short transverse combs, the teeth of which are iTiinute distally but in the proximal rows exceed the diameter of the seta.
There are no notopodial setse.
Type, Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
APHRODITID^.
Laetmatonice producta Grube.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
Laetmatonice producta Grube var.
benthaliana Mcintosh.
Suruga Bay, 3,726, 26 fms.
; Totomi Sea, 3,729, 34 fms.
; North Japan, 3,772, 79 fms.
; North Japan, 3,774, 81 fms.
Laetmatonice filicornis Kinberg.
A single specimen of this Atlantic species occurs in the collection from an unknown station.
The setse differ somewhat from those of specimens dredged off the American coast.
Laetmatonice japonica Mcintosh.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
; Sagami Bay, 3,738, 167 fms.
Lsetmatonice pellucida spnov. (PI.
XXIII, figs.
19, 20.)
This species belongs to the producta group, and if Mcintosh's views concerning the subdivisions of the latter prove to be correct may have to be considered as a variety merely.
The largest specimen measures 30 mm., and the type 26 mm.
long, and 11 wide between the tips of the parapodia.
Prostomium a flattened spheroid, slightly wider than long, with a shghtly elevated median area which fades away anteriorly and widens posteriorly, where it is continuous with the jDeristomium.
Ocular peduncles about f as long as the prostomiimi, from the anterior face of which they arise, the ends enlarged and globular, the iDases nar~ row and stalk-like; no distinct eyes, but a sUght discoloration of the ends of the peduncles.
^Median tentacle with a thick swollen ceratophore which fills the space betw^een the ocular peduncles, and about equals the prostomium in length; the style excessively slender, filiform, scarcely tapered, at least 9 times as long as the prostomium, its extremity slightly bulbous, with a subterminal constriction and a second more proximal enlargement.
Palpi ver}' slender, regularly tapering, whiplash-like, fully 15 times as long as the prostomium.
Facial tubercle prominent, extending from the base of median tentacle into mouth, covered with conspicuous papillae arranged in rows.
Peristomium short, coalesced with median portion of prostomium above, and united with somites II and III to form a broad quadrate postoral plate below.
Setigerous somites 33, very indistinctly limited except at the bases of the parapodia ; the surface quite smooth except on the postoral plate and the region immediately following, which are covered with globular papillae of much smaller size than in many other species.
The integuments are extremely transparent, so that the internal organs, and particularly the arrangement of the alimentary canal, nervous system and the masses of germ cells, can be clearly seen.
The retracted proboscis reaches to somite XVI.
Parapodia of the usual form, with only a few very small spherical papillae on the ventral surface; notopodia short, conical, directed nearly vertically on the scale-bearing, horizontally on the cirri-bearing somites ; neuropodia long, very slender, and truncate at the end.
Dorsal cirri of the same form as the median tentacle, equalling or exceeding the width of the body, and reaching far beyond the ends of the setae.
Ventral cirri short, about i the length of the neuropodium, slightly tapering, blunt-pointed.
Peristomial parapodia directed straight forward by the sides of the head, and nearly twice as long as the prostomium with its ocular peduncles.
At its end a spreading tuft of capillary setae arises from the inner side and occupies the space in front of the head, while from the outer face the tentacular cirri spring at right angles and then curve forward; they have form of the dorsal cirri, but are scarcelv half their length, and much less than the median tentacle.
The first few neiiropodia are shorter and stouter than the others, and the ventral cirri relatively longer; the last 3 parapodia are much reduced in size.
The elytra are fully exposed and, except the last pair, large, nearly elliptical, but with a slight emargination at the point of attachment on the lateral margin, from which point they extend inward and meet in the middle line but do not overlap in full-grown specimens; they are perfectly smooth, gelatinoid, pellucid and exhibit internally a peculiar fibrous structure closely simulating the appearance of the lacunae and canahculse of bone tissue.
Fifteen pairs occur on II, IV, V and succeeding alternate somites.
Dorsal felt fibers are entirely absent, and the spines are so few and small as to give to the species a characteristic unprotected aspect.
The follow^ing is the arrangement of the setae on a typical elytrophorous somite of the middle body region.
The notopodial aciculum projects obliquely caudad and laterad, forming a pointed prominence, just within which a tuft of light golden spines spreads through the emai-gination of and over the dorsum of the elytron.
These spines are few in number, and remarkably small and slender, both of which conditions may be due to the loss of the longer spines.
They have the usual tapering, hollow stems, with the protuberances few in number and of unusually large size, the spear-head flattened, long and acute, with 2 or 3 additional barbs on one side and 3 or 4 on the other.
On the ventroposterior part of the notopodium is a tuft of delicate, flexible, finely striated, hair-hke setae which spread chiefly downward and outward over the anterior face of the succeeding parapodium.
Neuropodium supported by a stout central aciculum about which are grouped 6 or S rather stout, rich brown setae, with long hollow shafts striated both longitudinally and circularly, the outer } or -J bent, with a prominent spur at the convexity, beyond that tapering and provided with a single close row of very long hairs, the terminal ones of which envelop the slightly curved point.
Cirriferous parapodia differ chiefly in the absence of dorsal spines and in having the capillary setae coarser, stiffer, more numerous and spreading in a horizontal plain from a short line on the dorsal surface anterior to the dorsal cirrus.
A tuft of such setae occurs on the peristomial parapodia; on II the neuropodials are slender, and doubly fringed, and similar ones occur on III; those of IV, however, are typical.
Color pinkish.
Bering Sea, 3,784, 85 fms.
Aphrodita australis Baird.
This, the representative in the Austrahan seas of our well-known sea mouse, has not been recorded hitherto from Japanese waters.
Sagami Bay, 3,696, 501-749 fms., and 3,697, 120-265 fms.
Aphrodita japonica v. Marenz.
Von Marenzeller describes the ventral spines of his specimen as smooth, a condition which I have assumed to have resulted from the wearing away of the hairs present in all three of the "Albatross" examples.
The palpi are also longer in the latter.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
; Sagami Bay, 3,704, 94 fms.
; Suruga Bay, 3,713, 45 fms.
ACCETIDiE.
RESTIO gen. nov.
Both median and paired tentacles entirely absent; palpi well developed; ommatophores wanting or completely coalesced with the sides of the prostomium so that the eyes are sessile; peristomial palpi without setse; setae in general resembling those of Eupanthalis.
Restio aenus sp.
nov. (PI.
XXIV, figs.
21-24.)
Represented by an anterior end consisting of the prostomium and 41 somites, probably the greater part of the worm, and measuring 35 mm.
long, and 5.2 mm.
in total width, which is remarkably constant.
Prostomium slightly wider than long, broadly bilobate anteriorly where a slightly median sinus divides it into two broadly rounded lobes from which the slides slope caudad to the somewhat narrower, straight posterior border.
There are two pairs of eyes, of which the first are very large, black, cup-shaped, with a lens-like central thickening, and face directly forward, being situated on the anterior face of the prostomium close to the lateral angles.
The posterior have a diameter of only ^ the anterior, are black, circular, without lenses, and are situated on the sloping lateral faces of the prostomium, from which they look outward and caudad across the pit to be mentioned below.
From between the eyes of each side a translucent membranous process reaches laterad to, but not uniting with, the peristomial parapodia.
There is not the slightest trace to be seen of median or paired tentacles, nor of the scars which they should leave if accidentally broken away, although the front of the head was examined with very great care under favorable conditions.
The palpi have been lost, but very distinct scars remain beneath the anterior eyes on the extreme lateral part of the anterior face of the prostomimn; the distance between them is li times their diameter.
Peristomial somite very distinct, its parapodia simple and extending straight forward by the side of the prostomium, with which they come in contact between the two pairs of eyes by means of their swollen anterior ends ; elsewhere they are separated from the head, thus leaving a pair of deep pits between.
Tentacular cirri lost, but leaving deep scars.
Although the total width is nearly uniform, the iDody alone tapers continuously from the peristomium caudad, being very slender posteriorly; at VI it is 2^ times as wdde as the parapodia are long; at XX they are about equal, and behind XXV the ■width of the body does not exceed f the length of the parapodia.
The parapodia following the peristomial exhibit a number of features of interest.
The next six are broad and very short, and so close to the ventral surface of the body that the regular arched surface of the dorsum is scarcely broken by them.
The next (VIII) is decidedly longer, and from this on to XXIV they continue to increase gradually in length but very little in breadth.
Beyond XXIV they are stout and thick, and exceed in length the diameter of the body, with the dorsal and ventral surfaces of w^hich they are continuous; their thickness in this region is a result of their distension by sperm masses.
The anterior parapodia have the neuropodia broad and divided into preand postsetal lobes, of wiiich the former is again divided into dorsal and ventral processes; the notopodium is altogether wanting on the 1st, but on the others is represented by a tubercle of increasing size, into which the aciculum enters.
On somites IX to XX the notopodium forms a rather conspicuous broad flap, wliich passes dow^n the dorsal half of the anterior face of the parapodium, and from behind which the capillary setae arise in connection with the integumental attachment of the fiber gland.
The dorsal angle of the neuropodimn is prominent, rounded and achaetous ; the ventral angle is enveloped by the lower end of the postsetal fold.
The notopodium becomes gradually reduced in size, and once more shifts to a dorsal position and loses its setae ; by XXV it is a mere dorsal papilla into wiiich the aciculiun enters and so remains to the end.
Only two elytra remain on the specimen, but at least 12 pairs of functional elytrophores are present on II, JV, V and every alternate somite to XXIII inclusive ; posterior to tliis small elevations occur on every alternate foot, but it is doubtful if they bear elytra.
The two scales present are small, not nearly meeting in the middle line, delicate, circular, low fmmel form, the margins wrinkled; they bear no papillae nor cilia, but the interior is apparently divided by delicate plates into irregular polygonal cells, the largest of which are marginal.
Four forms of setae occur on typical somites (X).
Those of one kind are colorless, long, slender, curved and tapering, bear rather distant opposite pairs of slender awn-like spines, and have slightly enlarged bases not shown in the drawing (fig.
24) ; these are arranged in a single long vertical row which extends nearly half-way down the anterior face of the foot, and are attached to the notopodial fold which largely covers them anteriorly; they do not occur caudad of XX.
Behind these is a second vertical row of stouter colorless spines, slightly enlarged subterminally and then tapering and fringed; few perfect examples of these have been found and none occur as far caudad as XXVI, and still farther back the first-mentioned capillary set® are also wanting.
A third vertical row contains seta?
of two kinds and, with certain changes in number and arrangement, is constant on all parapodia.
Five or six pale yellow, short, stout setse occupy the dorsal end of the bundle in more anterior, and the middle in more posterior somites; they present a subterminal enlargement, and a peculiarly roughened slightly hooked tip continued into a densely hairy fihform appendage and guarded by a dense brush of very stiff hairs ; usually the capillary tips and much of the guard have been worn away, and possibly the tip is normally absent posteriorly.
Ventral to these in anterior, and both ventral and dorsal in posterior, somites is a group of colorless more slender setse, with broad lance-shaped ends and transverse rows of fine bristles which become larger on the dorsal side.
Besides the true notopodial and neuropodial acicula, fiber glands are found in relation to all parapodia from somite IV to the end of the body, although the chitinoid rope is conspicuous only between X and XXV.
In structure they resemble very closely Eisig's figures of Polyodontes, that of XVI, for example, consisting of a dense strand of chitinoid fibers of iridescent brassy color, enveloped in a cellular sheath and measuring 15 mm.
long by .3 mm.
in diameter.
The free internal end gradually tapers, the cellular sheath at the same time becoming thickened and finally terminating in a slightly bulbous mass of cells, from v/hich the gradually forming fibers may be traced.
The outer end presents a rather considerable spherical enlargement of al^out twice the diameter of the strand and composed of a dark granular matter (cells?).
It is attached to the integument at the bottom of the postnotopodial groove from which the most anterior row of setae arises, and when forcibly pulled away entire some of these come with it.
The strands pass into the ccelom, the anterior ones usually arranged horizontally by the side of the pharynx, the smaller posterior ones coiled in about 2 turns in the base of the foot.
Type only, Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63 to 75 fms.
SIGALEONID^.
Thalanessa oculata Mcintosh.
Sagami Bay, 3,702, 31-41 fms.
; 3,704, 94-150 fms.
Leanira areolata Mcintosh.
Sagami Bay, 3,695, 3,696, 3,698, 153 to 749 fms.
Leanira japonica Mcintosh?
An incomplete specimen is doubtfully referred to this species, from which it differs considerably in the shape of the elytra.
Totomi Sea, 3,731, 55-65 fms.
EUPHROSYNID^.
Euphrosyne superba v. Marenz.
The single example which represents this species has only 7 pairs of branchiae to each somite.
Suruga Bay, 3,717, 63-100 fms.
AMPHINOMIDJE.
Chloeia flava (Pallas) De Blain.
This splendid annelid was collected in some numbers in 8 fathoms at Tatyama, Japan.
PHYLLODOCID^.
Eumidia caeca sp.
nov. (PI.
XXIII, figs, l, la.)
A complete worm has 187 segments, and measures 88 mm.
in length and 4 mm.
between the tips of the parapodia at the middle of the body.
Somewhat depressed, tapering about equally from the middle to both bluntly pointed ends.
Prostomium as viewed from above nearly circular, the posterolateral region somewhat encroached upon by the sides of the peristomium.
Eyes absent, but a dark spot near the center of the dorsal surface.
Frontal tentacles short, less than the transverse distance between them, stoutly fusiform wdth the tip acute, those on each side very close together, the ventral somewhat more caudad and about ^ longer than the dorsal.
Median tentacle very short, at extreme posterior margin of peristomium.
"Palpi," short lobes bounding the mouth laterally and apparently connected with the peristomial somite.
Peristomium of two united somites, about twice the width of the head and equalling it in length, encirchng the prostomium as a prominent fold which encroaches on it laterally, but emarginated dorsally to accommodate the median tentacle.
The anterior half of the peristomium bears the first tentacular cirrus and more ventrally the socalled palpi.
Tentacular cirri rather short and stiff, with very short ceratophores ; the styles of the first conical, obtuse, with a length scarcely exceeding the width of the prostomium; those of 2d peristomial somite lanceoloid, acute; the dorsal one 3 times the length of the 1st and reaching to somite X, the ventral f length of latter and reaching to VII; tentacular (dorsal) cirrus of 3d (1st setigerous) somite ec^ual to preceding dorsal tentacular cirrus, and reaching to XL Remaining somites well marked, strongly arched above, flattened below, increasing in length to middle of body.
Caudal end blunt, without cirri in this specimen.
Almost entire body, except a few anterior somites, filled with eggs.
Parapodia uniramal throughout, all parts more or less foHaceous, least so anteriorly.
Neuropodium flattened antero-posteriorly, the presetal lobe much the larger, broadly rounded and divided by a narrow cleft at apex, postsetal lobe very short.
Ventral cirrus leaf-like, broadly ovate, the apex obtuse, much larger than neuropodium, posteriorly overlapping and extending beyond it, obliquely attached by basal half of dorsal margin to a flattened lobe-like process from the ventral side of the neuropodium.
Xotopodial cirrus reniform, with a deep sinus ; long diameter, which is directly oblique to longitudinal axis of body, twice short diameter; posteriorly they are more rounded, overlapping from before backward, covering parapodia and leaving the dorsum of body only exposed; ceratophores very broad, flattened, slightly curved dorsad, with a wing-like ventral process which probably represents the notopodium, but receives no aciculum.
Form of parapodia very constant throughout entire length of body, the anterior ones becoming smaller and the last three at the caudal end simphfied.
Set* all of one kind, arranged in a broad fan-shaped fasciculus, colorless, compound, shaft very gently curved, sUghtly enlarged at end; socket narrow, its wall deeply cut away on one side and slightly thickened at that point to form a seat for the slender base of the appendix, elsewhere high and provided on each side with one large and three or four smaller teeth; appendix very delicate, elongate, attenuate, normally straight, though often curved in preparations, the back thickened, the edge knife-like and rather remotely serrulate with small short teeth.
The color is partially preserved; a rather broad band equal to i width of back, of reddish-brown, marks the median dorsal region, becoming of a richer more purplish color anteriorly and there terminating abruptly in a spot which includes the entire dorsum of the 7th to 10th setigerous somites.
A spot of the same brown color occurs on the medial half of each dorsal cirrus.
Otherwise the entire body and especially the cephalic region is of a brilliant white.
Type specimen only; Sagami Bay, 3,702, 31-41 fms.
Phyllodoce groenlandica (Oersted) Mgrn.
A small example of 80 mm.
Suruga Bay.
3,707, 63-75 fms.
NEREIDS.
Nereis pusilla sp.
nov. (PI.
XXIV, figs.
25.
26, 27.)
The type specimen, consisting of 50 somites, measures 20 mm.
long and 2.2 mm.
between the tips of the parapodia at the widest point.
Prostomium longer than wide, the preocular portion little narrower than ocular, anterior margin broad, truncate, lateral margin little excavated for palpi.
Eyes two pairs, large, conspicuous, black, apparently posterior only with cuticular lenses ; posterior on extreme hinder margin of head, circular; anterior somewhat larger, more widely separated, at bases of palpi, elliptical.
Frontal tentacles widely separated at base, conical, length much less than (f ) distance between posterior eyes.
Palpi prominent, as long as prostomium, terminal piece short, conical.
Peristomium h prostomium above, f as long laterally.
Tentacular cirri rather short, slender, non-articulate; posterior dorsal reaches to V, anterior dorsal to IV, and both ventral ones to III.
The following somites are long, the anterior ones equalling the peristomium in length.
Parapodia slender and very prominent, after the r2th about equalling the width of the body.
The 15th parapodimn has the l^ase about as long as deep, the notopodium larger than neuropodium, which it slightly overlaps anteriorly; notopodium divided into two long, pointed, conical, dorsal to ventral lobes, between which the setoe arise, and a very slightly shorter slender, presetal lobe; the notopodial cirrus very slender, arising from the swollen basal ^ of the dorsal notopodial lobe, and reaching scarcel}^ beyond the tip of the latter.
Neuropodium consisting of an elongated conical ventral lobe and a slender setigerous lobe which divides at the end into a short broad presetal and a very long slender postsetal process, the latter extending slightly beyond any other portion of the foot; neuropodial cirrus small and slender, its origin well separated from base of neuropodium, and its tip failing to reach the middle of the ventral neuropodial lobe; the slender black acicula are parallel, the neuropodial shghtly the longer.
Anteriorly the parapodia become shorter and on the first and second the notopodial setigerous lobe is lacking, the notopodial cirrus becomes relatively shorter and the neuropodial longer than on the typical foot, so that the ventral is the longer on the first and has its base constricted and the cuticle in that region much thickened.
Posteriorly all of the lobes become even more slender and elongated, the neuropodium and notopodium are even more closely appressed, the neuropodial cirrus more widely removed and so much diminished in size that it scarcely reaches to the base of the ventral lol^e, while the dorsal cirrus retains its characteristic length.
Setse all compound, nearly colorless and very transparent.
Notopodial all alike, the stems slender and very regularly camerated, the terminal socket symmetrical, blade remarkably slender, with capillary tip and short fine hairs on the concave margin of the basal f ; those in the dorsal part of the vertical row with much longer blades than the ventral ones; similar setse occur in the dorsal and posterior part of the neuropodium.
In the ventral region of the neuropodium are a few short-bladed compound setse ; their stems rather stouter but camerated in a similar regular manner, the end more enlarged, the socket oblique, the long limb of its margin receiving the septate cavity which is here divided by a longitudinal partition; the blade hooked, guarded and provided with, very stiff hairs directed distally.
Several stouter setse of this type occur in the anterior dorsal part of the neuropodium, but, except for their slightly shorter blades, they differ in no noteworthy manner from those just described.
Exposed portion of maxillae brown, relatively short, broad, acute, the edge with 3 teeth in the basal half separated by a wider interval from a 4th double tooth near the apicalfang.
Paragnathae brown, small, conical, all separate, the posterior ones in each group somewhat larger; group I, 5 in longitudinal series, the first minute, increasing in size caudad; II, oblique elliptical areas, in 3 ranks, anterior lateral of about 4, very small, middle of 6 larger, posterior internal of 5 still larger; III, a small longitudinally elongated group of 10-12; IV, nearly circular areas of 18-24; the basal circle absent.
Head and anterior segments delicate rose-red, brightest on head and gradually fading posteriorly.
The specimens are immature, but differ from all described species, especially in the character of the paragnathae and feet.
Two specimens, Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms.
Nereis paucidentata sp.
uov.
(PI.
XXIV, flgs.
2S.
29, 30.)
The type and only specimen is complete but in several pieces, which have a total length of 95 mm., with a maximum width of 6 mm.
at XV, There are 118 fully developed somites and a small caudal tip of 6 regenerating ones.
Prostomium slightly broader than long, broadly rounded anteriorly, where it is about h the greatest breadth across the anterior eyes, broadly excavated at the sides for the bases of the palpi.
Eyes 2 pairs, both with cuticular lenses, large, the anterior slightly the larger and farthest apart.
Frontal tentacles short, awl-shaped, about equal in length to the distance between the posterior eyes.
Palpi reaching to tips of frontal tentacles, the bases stout and swollen, the styles nearly spherical, knob-like, partly retracted into ends of bases, and about ^ diameter of these.
Peristomium dorsally nearly ^ length of prostomium, its enlarged lateral part f as long.
Tentacular cirri rather short, the styles more or less distinctly articulated, posterior dorsal reaching VI, anterior dorsal V, posterior ventral III and anterior ventral II.
The form of the somites presents nothing characteristic and the caudal cirri are wanting.
The parapodia resemble those of N. dumerilii, but the lobes are more prolonged, and the dorsal cirrus has a more basal origin throughout the series.
The typical foot presents four principal elongated subequal lobes, with a slender notopodial cirrus, about twice the length of the lobes, arising from the swollen region near the middle of the dorsal margin of the foot, and a neuropodial cirrus, about eciualling the ventral lobe, from which it is separated by a short interval.
The neuropodium consists of a rather truncate setigerous lobe, bearing a broad presetal process, into which the aciculum enters, a much longer and more narrow conical postsetal lobe, and a slender, conical, ventral lobe.
The notopodium is separated from the neuropodium by a deep narrow cleft, and consists of 2 slightly divergent, elongated, conical, dorsal and ventral lobes, between which the setae arise, guarded by a shorter, flatter, presetal process, which is more closely connected with the ventral lobe.
Anteriorly the notopodial presetal process diminishes in size and disappears entirely, with the setae, on the second foot; the setigerous lobe of the neuropodium undergoes little change, but the ventral lobe becomes large and thick, and more closely united with it.
The first and second parapodia have the dorsal non-setigerous lobe only of the notopodium, and the ventral lobe of the neuropodium considerably larger than the setigerous lobe and broadly rounded at the end; the dorsal cirrus is H times the length of the notopodium and the ventral shghtly longer than the neuropodium.
Posteriorly the notopodium increases relatively in size, giving the entire parapodium an oblique aspect, at the same time becoming much more vascular and contractile, which greatly affects the relative proportion of parts in neighboring parapodia.
Otherwise they undergo little alteration.
The setse are all compound and three forms occur.
The notopodials are all similar, with slender, strongly and closely camerated shafts, symmetrical sockets and long, straight, slender, tapering and strongly fringed blades.
In addition to the setae of the notopodial kind which are the most numerous dorsal to the aciculum of the neuropodium, the latter bears two other forms of compound set*.
In the ventral part of the foot are some rather stouter ones, in which the shafts are camerated and the sockets oblique, the fringed blades much shorter, broader, hooked and guarded at the apex.
Two or occasionally 3 much stouter deep yellow setse project stiffly from a point just dorsad of the aciculum ; the camerated interior of the shaft is marked by a central line, perhaps due to perforations in the septa, its end bears a shallow oblique socket, and the very short blade, which is very seldom present, is strongly hooked, striated, guarded and furnished with a marginal fringe of long hairs.
Maxillae brown, broad, not especially acute, abruptly oblique at end, each with 8-9 teeth in addition to the terminal fang, from which they are separated by a short interval.
Paragnatha almost obsolete; maxillary ring: I, wanting; II.
2-4; III, 1; IV, 2; a very minute one on each side between III and IV; basal ring represented by three small teeth arranged in an arc on the ventral side; all are small, low conical and brown.
One specimen, type, north of the Aleutian Islands, 3,785, 270 fms.
Nereis pelagica Linn.
Sagami Bay, 3,700, 63 fms.
; Totomi Sea, 3.729, 34 fms.
NEPHTHYID^.
Nephthys brachycephala sp.
nov. None of the specimens is complete, the type and most perfect one having 60 segments and a length of 64 mm., the maximum breadth between the tips of the parapodia being 4 mm.
at X.
Body relatively slender, not depressed, anteriorly nearly round, but venter somewhat flattened; posteriorly nearly quadrate.
Prostomium very short, twice as wide as long, deeply sunken (about Y of its length) in peristomium.
roughly oblong, with anterior angles slightly truncated, lateral margins slightly convex, anterior gently concave, and posterior straight.
Eyes absent.
Tentacles ver}short, the lateral shghtly the larger and about -j length of prostomium, both pairs borne close together on the truncate lateral angles, directed nearly straight forward, but slightly divergent.
Parapodia short, especially anteriorly, the two rami widely separated, least so in the middle region, where the branchife are highly developed.
Xeuropodium and notopodium about equally developed throughout, the former directed laterad, simple, truncate, conical; with slight acicular lobe and circumsetal collar, but no distinct lamellae ; cirrus very short, thick, conical, arising from ventral side of neuropodium close to base.
Notopodium directed somewhat oblicjuely dorsad, also of simple, short, truncate, conical form, without lamellae; acicular lobe well-marked and notched at end; circumsetal collar oblique, its posterior portion high, the anterior very low.
Xo dorsal cirrus, but a special cirrus of short thick form on ventral side of notopodium, in the branchiate segments closely connected with the external side of the base of the branchial stem.
Branchiae begin on V, as a minute process on the ventral and internal side of the cirrus ; this increases in size and develops dorsal and ventral \vings, which assume the characteristic form by XV, though continuing to increase in size for some segments beyond.
In its typical development the branchia is extremely like N. phyllohranchia Mcintosh, but the shape of the prostomium readily distinguishes the two species; the branchia is a large WTinkled leaf-like structure, through the middle of which runs a thick tapering midrib, the tip of which projects slightly, and from which vessels pass into the expanded portion.
When best developed it occupies most of the space between the two rami.
Posterior to XXXV the branchiae undergo reduction until the much shortened midrib alone remains, bearing a minute process, probably the cirrus, on the dorsal side of its base.
The setae are almost entirely destroyed, but their dark-colored bases remain to indicate their arrangement.
Anteriorly they are disposed in both rami in rings around the acicula as centers, the posterior semicircle being composed of large, the anterior of small, setae Avhich soon disappear, leaving only the posterior arc in parapodia farther caudad.
None of the setae are complete, but enough may be seen of those of the anterior semicircle to show that they are camerated and very small and delicate.
Nothing whatever can be determined of the characters of the posterior ones.
A single slightly brownish, acutely pointed, stout aciculum supports each ramus.
Sagami Bay, 3,695, 175-190 fms.
Nephthys ciliata (Miiller) Rathke.
This species was dredged in large numbers in Avatcha Bay, Kamchatka, in 12 to 15 fathoms, on a bottom of stiff green mud.
A specimen from north Japan (3,775), taken in 57 fathoms from a bottom of similar character, has much longer setae and larger cirri.
EUNICID^.
Eunice northioidea sp.
nov. (PI.
XXV, figs.
36, 37, 38.)
The type is in two pieces, probably representing the greater part of the worm, and together including the head and 86 somites measuring 58 mm.
in length and 3.5 mm.
wide.
The body is very Httle depressed and of nearly uniform diameter throughout the region represented, the dorsum very high and convex, the venter nearly flat, with a deep neural groove.
Owing to a rather strong forward tendency of the anterior feet this end of the worm presents a shght resemblance to North ia and its allies, which is heightened by the pearly-white color of the greater part of the dorsum of VL Prostomium strongly retracted within peristomial fold, concealing about one-half of its length, which is IJ times the length of the peristomium, shape about as in E. mucronata, the frontal tentacles much less divergent tjian inE.
quinquifida, their terminal joint rudimentary.
Eyes one pair, large, brown, below base of inner and behind outer lateral tentacles.
Tentacles strongly and nearly regularly beaded in the terminal portion, the constrictions becoming fainter toward the base.
In the condition presented by this specimen the median and inner lateral tentacles are subequal, the former touching VIII, the latter reaching into VII, and the outer laterals just touch I\.
The basal articulations of all are rather more distinct than in the other species herein described.
Peristomium with a wide free anterior fold above, its longest part not lateral, as usual, but ventral, owing to the unusually large size and prominence of the mandibular lobes.
Second somite longest dorsally, where it equals ^ the peristomium; its cirri long, slender, beaded, reaching tip of head anteriorly, and to middle of VI posteriorly.
Parapodia essentially as described for E. quinquifida, but more ventral in position; dorsal cirri about as long as in that species, but more distinctly articulated, the sense-organ moderately developed; pigmented spots at bases of both dorsal and ventral cirri.
Branchiffi begin on IV as a slender process, which by VIII nearly equals the dorsal cirrus on one side, while on the other it is bifid and nearly as long; they are trifid on both sides on XI, quadrifid on XV 28 and so continue, with occasional variations to three divisions, to XXII on one side, and XXIII on the other, then again trifid to XXVII, bifid, or occasionally trifid.
to XXXII; from this point a single filament, which is at first larger than, but gradually decreases until it only equals, the dorsal cirrus, continues to the posterior end of the piece.
Although the same bifurcate mode of l^ranching as in E. quinquifida occurs, the aspect of the gills is totally different; the branches are thicker, stiffer and, instead of bending toward the middle, stand erect, but the parapodia are placed so low down that they scarcely arise above the level of the back.
Setae fewer than in E. rnucronata, generally stouter and more regularly arranged in horizontal rows.
All are colorless.
Compound setse with shafts thickened gradually at the end for a distance considerably exceeding the length of the appendix, here with strongly marked oblique striations and the dorsal margin distinctly denticulated over a considerable distance; appendix short, the length 4-6 times its width, with a well-marked subterminal constriction and a bifid tip, the terminal tooth slightly hooked, the other broad, straight, acute; guard broad, without mucronate tip, closely following outline of terminal tooth, beyond which it extends slightly on the dorsal side.
As usual the appendages are relatively longer on anterior and shorter on posterior parapodia.
Capillary setse about j longer than the compound, rather strongly curved, and tapering only in the terminal § of the exposed portion, but then to an excessively acute point.
Spatulate or paddle-shaped setse rather more than h length of capillary setse, by which they are concealed from above; situated caudad of the acicula and ventrad of the capillary setse, tapering gently to little expanded ends which have about nine points, both marginals being produced, but very unec{ually, the anterior one apparently always the longer.
The acicula are deep brown, practically black, in color, and opaque except at the smaller ends ; the ordinary ones are two in number, subequal, bluntly tapered, and slightly curved at the end.
In the posterior somites, beginning at about XL.
is a single ventral uncinate aciculum of rather strongly sigmoid curvature and with a bifid hooked end.
They are always thickly incrusted with a reddish-ocherous deposit, the removal of which destroys the guards.
Jaws hoary brown, the thin plates yellow; maxillae stout, strongly hooked and curved ventrad near the broad base, which is provided with a prominent tubercle for muscular attachment; carrier broad, not constricted.
Next pair of dorsal jaws triangular \\dth the two posterior angles prolonged, and the anterior angle provided with a strong, somewhat hooked tooth supported by a small anterior one.
and succeeded on the left, which is the larger of this pair of jaws, by four, and on the right by three,, somewhat unequal teeth, while the remaining posterior third of the medial side is edentulous.
The anterior group of dorsal jaws includes four pieces on the right, and three on the left side arranged in arcs ; the most external on each side is a small toothless plate ; the next bears one tooth.
The next, which is the most anterior of the group, is supported by a small, deep brown plate wdth a larger thin yellow extension; on the right side it bears 8 teeth, and an internal slightly serrated ridge; on the left it is much shorter, and bears but 6 teeth, but is supplemented by the fourth jaw plate, which fits inside of its posterior end, is of an elongated crescentic form and bears about 12 teeth.
The mandibles are remarkably prominent, the two halves freely movable on each other, the whitish calcareous pieces less than ^ the length of the slender yellow carrier, strongly divergent, irregularly oval in form, with four ridges and as many obscurely indicated marginal teeth, the anterior angle prominent, almost hooked.
Suruga Bay, 3,718, 65 fms.
Eunice vittata Delia Chaije.
Quite common at station 3,707 in Suruga Bay in 65-75 fms.
Eunice quinquifida sp.
nov. (PI.
XXV, figs.
39, 40, 41.)
The single specimen representing this species is incomplete, consisting of the head and 56 somites measuring 45 mm.
long and 4 mm.
between the tips of the parapodia.
Prostomium about twice as wide as long, very deeply cleft in front and the frontal tentacles so strongly divergent that in ventral view it appears to be formed of two broadly pyriform halves connected at their apices by a rather narrow posterior band, terminal pieces of frontal tentacles even smaller than usual.
Eyes, 1 pair, large, Ijrown, in the usual position and largely concealed by the free anterior border of the peristomium.
Tentacles all irregularly and boldly articulated, rather short, tapering; the median evidently imperfect, the inner lateral reaching to VIII, and the outer lateral to III.
Peristomium very long, especially on the sides where, with its broad anterior lobes, it much exceeds the prostomium which it dorsally encloses as far as the bases of the tentacles in a prominent fold uniting with the sides of the prostomium below the eyes as far forward as their anterior borders.
The second somite is very short, not more than | of the peristomium, from which it is imperfectly separated laterally, and only about ^ as long as somite V; tentacular cirri tapering, rather faintly articulated in the terminal half, reaching anteriorly to the cephalic margin of the peristomium and posteriorly to V. Body little depressed, strongly convex even in the branchial region, and with a very strongly marked neural groove.
Length of somites, which are very distinct, increases to VI, which is three times as long as II, undergoes httle diminution in the branchial region, but increases somewhat in the region posterior to the principal branchiae.
Parapodia similar in form and variations to E. mucronata, but the neuropodium rather larger and the whole more prominent.
The notopodial cirri are remarkable for the very large size of the basal portion, which much exceeds the entire neuropodium in size in the middle region of the body.
Notopodial cirri relatively short, about twice the length of the neuropodium to which they are attached, scarcely reaching half-way to the dorsimeson, tapering, faintly articulated at least anteriorly, the basal sense-organ very small; a conspicuous bilobed brown spot occurs just within the body at the base of the dorsal cirrus.
Branchiae appear suddenly as two filaments on the left side of IX and 3 on the right side of X, increasing to 4 on XI, 5 on XVIII and XIX, which number is maintained to XXXV and XXXVII, with an occasional variation to 4, especially on the right side, then 4 and 3 to XLI, and 2 for the remainder of the piece.
Even when best developed the branchiae of the two sides are separated by fully half the width of the back.
Their aspect is very different from the branchiae of E. mucronata; the stem arises in the same way and curves mediad over the back, but it is angulated, and the branches, instead of arising erect, dicotomose nearly regularly with it and curve parallel to it toward the median line.
The number of setae is moderate, the compound and capillary being about equal and rather definitely arranged in rows.
Compound setae very pale yellow, rather stout, the terminal portion of the shaft thickened for a distance of 5-6 times the ordinary diameter, with axial striations and marginal denticulations for a long distance ; appendage relatively short, less than the enlarged end of shaft, the tip strf)ngly hooked and prominently bifid; the guard broad, extending a short distance beyond tip of appendage, striated and marginally denticulated.
Capillary setae colorless, gently curved like an italic /, slightly enlarged about middle with a narrow denticulated wing, and tapering to a fine point in the terminal ^.
Paddle-shaped pectinate setae wider than in other species of Eunice herein described, with about eleven teeth, the marginal ones of which are only slightly and subequally prolonged.
Acicula black and opaque; orcUnary kind two or occasionally three, tapering rather suddenly to a blunt, curved tip; posterior ventral ones rather strongly sigmoid, the tip hooked, bifid, ^ith a broad, wellmarked, striated guard.
All of the jaws, except the anterior lateral, which are brown, have a peculiar hoary appearance.
Mandibular carriers slender, about 2^ times as long as the calcareous plates ; the latter roughly triangular, the posterior internal angle broadly rounded, the most acute angle anterior and somewhat divergent; medial side shortest, convex, with a small process which joins its mate; anterior margin concave and posterior convex ; 2 anterior teeth besides the angle.
Maxilla slender, the carrier small and without a constriction.
Posterior lateral plate triangular, with a transverse joint about the middle, with 5 teeth and a posterior compressed margin on the left, 6 teeth and a longer toothless margin on the right.
Anterior group of 2 right and 3 left jaws; the dorsalmost rather large, divided into 2 in each case and bearing a single rather broad tooth ; the second long on the right, with 11 fine teeth, shorter on the left, with only 5; unpaired left jaw with 8 teeth.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
Eunice mucronata sp.
nov. (PI.
XXV, figs.
42-45.)
Size small, the largest entire worm having a length of 110 mm.
exclusive of the cephalic and caudal appendages, but other incomplete specimens indicate a length up to 150 mm., and have a width at the end of the anterior fourth of 4 mm.
Form moderately slender; number of segments about 125.
Prostomium slightly broader than long, the length about equal to the peristomium ; deeply bilobed anteriorly, the frontal tentacles prominent and widely divergent below, the median sulcus deep and wide, extending from a point between the external paired tentacles on the dorsum nelrly into the mouth ventrally and posteriorly, palpal styles very short, scarcely elevated above the basal lobes from which they are delimited by a shallow encirchng groove.
Eyes 1 pair, large, purple, on posterior margin of head, just ventrad of inner paired tentacles, and in the preserved material partly concealed by the anterior border of the peristomium.
Tentacles all long, slender, tapering, and not, or, only very faintly, articulated, the median reaching to XIII, the inner lateral to XI, and the outer lateral, which are sometimes more distinctly articulated than the others, to IV or V; all are very fragile and consequently often injured and imperfect; inner laterals arise just dorsad of the eyes, outer laterals just cephalad.
Peristomium about as long as the prostomium laterally, but elsewhere shorter; dorsally it presents a shallow bay affording an inset for the bases of the median and inner lateral tentacles, laterally a subocular lobe which is united with the prostomium and partly conceals the eyes, and ventrally a pair of lobes which conceal the mandibles and are separated from one another and from the lateral lobes by emarginations.
Tentacular cirri long and slender, reaching slightly l)eyond the anterior extremity of the palpal lobes and, when reflexed, caudad to somite VII.
The second somite is about ^ the lateral length of the peristomium, and f the length of somite V, to which the lengths of the somites increase, beyond which they decrease through the branchial region, and then regain their maximum size, which is retained until they finally fall off to the caudal end.
The body as a whole is somewhat depressed, most so in the branchial region, strongly convex dorsally in the prebranchial and caudal regions, but ventrally flattened throughout, with a strongly marked neural groove.
The two long tapering caudal cirri equal the last 9 segments in length.
The first pair of parapodia are on a level with the ventral surface, and succeeding ones gradually rise until the normal position about midway between the dorsum and venter is attained by X or XI, and maintained throughout the branchial region and beyond; then they sink again to the ventral level posteriorly.
The typical structure is reached at about the 5th or 6th parapodium.
Xeuropodium short, little tapered, truncate and somewhat bilobed.
Xeuropodial cirri with enlarged, tumid bases about equal to the neuropodia, bearing small lobe-like terminal pieces about -j as long.
Notopodial cirri slender,, with a slight sensory swelhng on the ventral side near the base, about 3-4 times the length of the neuropodimn and nearly long enough to reach the median line of the back.
The first parapodium consists of a minute setigerous lobe, a long notopodial cirrus reaching the anterior border of the peristomium, and a much stouter basall}' swollen neuropodial cirrus of about half this length.
Toward the posterior end the parapodia become more tapering in continuation of the body outhnes, and scarcely project from the surface; the neuropodial cirri lose the basal enlargement, taper regularly, become more prominent and assume a more caudal position ^vith relation to the foot; the notopodial cirri become relatively shorter, the extreme posterior ones being about twice as long and half as thick as the ventral, and the sensory elevation more prominent.
Branchiae appear and cease abruptly, occupying somites V to XXXVI, caudad of which they do not ordinarily occur.
Each arises in common with a notopodial cirrus from a very short base, and the main stem curves gently over the back to meet its fellow of the opposite side at the middle line ; the stem tapers and the erect pinnae arise from it separated by intervals of ^ their diameter; they are of unequal length, the middle ones about equalling the notopodial cirrus, and the end of the stem bends upward as the last branch.
At both ends of the branchial region the.
number of pinnse is subject to considerable variation, the following figures being the average of 3 specimens upon which all were counted.
They appear as a small process on V which elongates on VI, become trifid on VIII, and have 4-6 branches on IX, 7-9 on X, 12 by XIV, 14 at XVIII or XIX, which number is retained, occasionally rising to 15, to about XXX or XXXII, and then falls rapidly to 10, 7, 5 and none on successive somites.
Typical parapodia bear setae of three kinds, all slender, delicate, and colorless.
First, compound setae: numerous, in a fasciculus on the ventral part of the neuropodium ; stems curved, with a short abruptly enlarged end striated axially and serrated on one margin; appendage slender, elongated (most so anteriorly) , with the end weakly hooked and faintly bidentate, the margin finely serrated, the guard greatly prolonged in a mucronate tip equal to ^ or more the length of the appendage.
Second, very slender elongated capillary setae arranged in a row which extends around the dorsal and posterior sides of the fascicle of compound setae; these taper gently and uniformly, and appear to be nearly or quite smooth.
Third, paddle-shaped pectinate setae in a small fascicle just dorsad of the acicula, very delicate and terminated by 9 or 10 points, of which the 2 marginal ones are somewhat unequally prolonged; these are very inconspicuous, being concealed by the bases of the capillary setae, i^nd the flattened ends are placed horizontally.
The ordinary acicula are pale yellow, 2 in number, 1 much stouter, simple, tapering, with bliuit slightly bent tips.
Beginning with the mid-branchial region and continuing caudad 1 or 2 additional sigmoid uncinate acicula with guarded, hooked, trifid tips appear on the ventral margin of the neuropodium.
All jaws pale brown except the white calcareous mandibular plates.
]\Iandibular carriers broad anteriorly, but tapering rapidly to very slender divergent posterior ends, about twice the length of the calcareous plates ; the latter somewhat triangular, the angles anterior, posteromedial and postero-lateral, inclined to the earlier at an angle of about 45°, but the anterior angle bent forward so as to lie in a longitudinal plane; besides the anterior angle a single obscure tooth aljont the middle of the antero-medial side.
IMaxillae of the usual form, the carrier minute, the 2 halves together scarcely exceeding in width the base of the maxillae proper, and their length only I that of the latter.
Posterior lateral plate triangular with unusually long median side bearing about 10 conspicuous sharp teeth.
Two anterior right, 3 left jaws; the 1st with a single tooth, the 2d with 11 right and 8 left, the 3d left with 8 teeth occupying its entire margin.
A'ery common in Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms Eunice gracilis sp.
nov. (PI.
XXV, figs.
46, 47, 48.)
A rather slender-bodied s])ecies with jjarapodia of greater length than usual.
The type consists of 110 somites, is 49 mm.
long and 4 mm.
wide to the tips of the feet.
Prostomium about equal in length to peristomium, into which it is less retracted than usual, anterior sulcus not quite reaching to median tentacle on dorsal surface, but passing into mouth ventrall3^ Frontal tentacle prominent, divergent, terminal pieces rather larger than usual.
Tentacles articulated, the constrictions becoming fainter toward the base; median reaches to VIII.
inner laterals to \T, outer laterals imperfect.
Eyes wholly exposed, large, piu'plish-brown, in the usual position.
Peristomium rather short, longest laterally where it about equals prostomimn, mandibular lobe not Ijidentate, short, oral margin very faintly furrowed and crenulate, dorsal free fold or collar short, barel}" reaching the median tentacle, and leaving eyes fully exposed.
Second somite rather obscurely separated from prostomium, of which it is about ^ the length.
Dorsal cirri articulated, reaching to centre of eyes anteriorly and J into somite \, posteriorly.
Somite V, the largest in the prebranchial region, is about Utimes II.
In the branchial region all somites are shorter than in the preor postbranchial regions.
Body very little depressed, and ventral surface unusually convex, with a very faint neural groove.
Anus subdorsal, wdth two very long more dorsal and posterior cirri equalling the 17 posterior somites, and two short more ventral and anterior ones between \ and ^ the length of the others.
Parapodia of the usual form and modifications, but rather longer than usual, and, owing to the ventral convexity of the body, placed relatively higher on the sides.
The branchiae resemble those of E. mucronata in that the branches are erect upon a stem curving parallel to the body walls, but differ strikingh' in that the termination of the stem, instead of bending dorsad parallel to the other filaments, as in that species, diverges sharply at an angle from the last one.
The number of filaments developed on successive somites is as follows; 1 on \I, 2 on IX, 3 or 4 on X, 6 on XII, 7 on XIII, 8 on XIV, 9 on XVI or XVII, 10 on XXII, which number continues, with occasional variations to 9 or 11, to XXX; then through 9 and 8 to 7 at XL, 3 or 4 at XLII, 2 on XL\', 1 on XLA^I and none from XL^''III caudad.
Compound setae colorless, numerous, arranged irregularly with the capillary setae on an area which is nearly circular on anterior and elliptical on posterior somites, and near the dorsal border of which the acicula protrude; terminal thickening of shaft short, but decided, striated, dorsal margin very closeh^ and finely denticulated; appendix very short, especially on the posterior feet, where its length is scarcelv more than 3 times its width; tip bifid, the teeth widely separated; guard very narrow, barely reaching beyond end of terminal tooth, its edge finely denticulate.
Capillary setae colorless, exposed for about H times length of compound setae, nearly straight, tapering nearly regularly from base to apex, dorsal margin minutely denticulated.
Spatulate and pectinate setae colorless, gently widened towartl end, terminated b}' only 7 or 8 points, one of the marginals being much prolonged and bent at an angle to the plane of the others.
Uncini absent from the anterior parapodia, j^ale yellow, 2 or 3, passing obliquely through the foot and protruding from the ventral side of its end, 1 usually considerably larger, form sigmoid, somewhat enlarged at middle, terminated by one erect tooth and a larger hooked one, guard broad.
Mandibles with the carriers broad and short, scarcely exceeding the jaw plate in length; the latter large, obliquely elongate ovate, widely divergent, with 3 ridges and teeth besides the prominent but rather blunt terminal ones.
^laxillae stout, strongly hooked, \\-ith short, broad, unconstricted carriers.
Posterior dorsal jaws triangular, toothed along almost the entire medial margin, the left larger, with eight coarse teeth, the right with 7 diminishing in size caudad.
Two anterior dorsal jaws on right, 3 on left side; the first minute with 1 tooth; the next strongly curved, with a very br<iad thin plate, and 11 or 12 teeth on each side; the asymmetrical left plate with 13 teeth.
Totomi Sea, 3,730, 34 fms.
Eunice medicina sp.
nov. (Pi.
xxv, figs.
49, 50, 51.)
The type, which is entire, but somewhat contracted, consists of 82 somites and measures 32 mm.
in length and 1.5 mm.
in greatest breadth.
It is probably immature.
A second incomplete example is somewhat larger, having a length of 28 mm.
for 54 anterior somites, and a maximum breadth of 2 mm.
The posterior parapodia contain spermatozoa.
Prostomimn of form usual in the genus, shghtly longer than peristomimn; ventral furrow not especially deep and lobe not widely divergent ; frontal tentacles occupying entire ventral end of lobes and bounded by completely encircling furrows.
E3'es 1 pair, brown, near posterior margin of head, directly below and in contact with base of inner lateral tentacles, not at all concealed by cephalic fold of peristomium.
Tentacles relatively short, only very faintly articulated, the median lost in both specimens; inner lateral of seven joints and reaching to posterior end of somite VI; outer lateral of 4 or 5 joints and reaching to III.
Peristomimn distinct, of equal length all around and shghtly less than prostomium, with which it is not fused laterally.
Second somite about ^ length of peristomium, distinct, nuchal (tentacular) cirri slender, very faintly articulated and reaching anteriorly to base of inner lateral tentacle, or posteriorly to the middle of IV.
As usual the somites in the region of greatest branchial development are shorter and more crowded than either anterior or posterior to this region.
The last 8 or 9 somites taper rapidly to the anal ring, which is slightly enlarged.
Caudal cirri 2 pairs, the hinder very slender and dehcate, equalling 11 last somites, the short one scarcely equal to the width of the anal ring.
Except for their somewhat greater prominence and the peculiarities of the neuropodial cirri, the parapodia have the characters usual in the genus.
The tenth parapodium has the 2ieuropodium roughly square in form, with the suprasetal portion more vescicular, tvmiid and enlarged than usual in small species, the acicular lobe between the dorsal end of the series of compound setae, and the fascicle of capillary setae prominent.
The very characteristic neuropodial cirrus has an enlarged basin-shaped swollen base, the hollow of which looks ventrolaterad, while the terminal process is a thick, short, rounded process of its dorso-lateral margin, the whole, in certain views, having a striking resemblance to a mortar and pestle, Notopodial cirrus separated by an interval from the neuropodium, double its length, the basal half slightly swollen and receiving into its root the ends of 2 slender curved acicula, the terminal half slender and obscurely articulated.
Toward the anterior end the neuropodium is reduced in size, the depression in the base of the neuropodial cirrus is lost, and the base becomes first spherical and finally cylindrical, the notopodial cirrus approaches the neuropodium, becomes relatively longer, with a more swollen proximal and more distinctly articulated distal portion.
The extreme of these changes is exhibited by the 1st parapodimn, in which both cirri are connate with the base of the neuropodium, than which the neuropodial cirrus is twice, and the notopodial cirrus 3^ times as long, the base of the former being cylindrical and twice the length of the terminal piece, while the notopodial cirrus has the proximal end much swollen, and the distal divided into 3 short joints.
The second parapodium differs from the first almost solely in the larger size of the neuropodium.
With the gradual reduction in size of the neuropodial cirri toward the posterior end of the branchial region the basin-like form of the ceratophore is gradually lost, and the whole parapodium assumes the form peculiar to the posterior half of the body.
The acicular lobe of the neuropodium is so reduced in size that the ends of the acicula project conspicuously beyond it.
Still farther caudad the parapodia become more pointed, their outhnes nearly continuous with the dorsal and ventral curvatures of the body and the two cirri of approximately equal length.
The neuropodial cirri are stouter and more closely united to the neuropodium, the notopodial still retain slightly enlarged bases, but all appearance of articulation has gone.
The branchiae are pinnate, the stem arising at right angle from the base of the notopodial cirrus and curving parallel with the back toward but not reaching the middle line ; the stiff, erect branches arise at regular intervals of about twice their own diameter, are subequal in length, shorter and more slender than the cirrus, and the end of the main stem bends upward as the last pinna.
The following table shows the distribution of the branchiae and the somites on which occur changes in the number of pinnse on the right and left sides of both specimens : Type.
Station 3,700.
Cotype.
Station 3,707.
No.
of Somite.
Left.
Right.
No.
of Somite.
Left.
Right.
V 1 1 V 1 1 X 3 3 IX + 3 XI 4 5 X 4 4 XIII 5 + XI 5 6 XIV + 6 XII 6 + + XVI 6 + XIV 7 XVIII + 5 XVII ^ XX 5 + XXII 4XXIII 4 4 XXV 6 XXVII 3 3 ^XVIII 2 XXIX + + XXVII 3 3 XXVII 3 3 XXVIII 2 XXVIII Compound setae occur in all parapodia ; colorless, the stem curved, its end enlarged very gradually to a maximiun of twice the ordinary diameter, the thickened part with obliciue axial striations and a finely denticulated convex margin; appendix a relatively slender blade, the greatest width H times the diameter of the stem and its length about 5^ times the width (middle of 10th parapodium), terminal teeth prominent, well separated, moderately hooked, edge of blade finely serrate, guard prolonged beyond body of blade as a sharp spine about equalling in length the width of the blade.
Capillary setae are also found as a fascicle in the dorso-posterior part of each neuropodium; they project two or three times as far as the compound setae, are colorless, straight or gently curved, the terminal half very finely acuminate and the surface feebly granulate.
Paddleshaped pectinate set re appear to be absent from the first parapodium, but occur on all the others in very limited numljer at the base of the bundle of capillary setae; the end is curved in half-round form, is relatively narrow, 3 to 4 times the diameter of the stem, with al)out twelve slender, straight points of even length and one delicate prolonged marginal process.
Both neuropodial and notopodial acicula are present in all of the parapodia; the latter are always 2 in number, very slentler, tapering and with rather abruptly curved ends which terminate just opposite the apex of the angle Isetween the notopodial cirrus and its Ijranchia.
The ordinary neuropodials are also 2 in number and enter the acicular lobe, beyond which their blunt, straight, or (posteriorly) bent ends project, most prominently posteriorly.
The /-shaped, hooked acicula are first detected on somite XXI.
A single one (rarely 2) passes obliquely through each neuropodium, appearing at the ventro-lateral angle.
The}' are stout , pale yellow, rather strongly curved and hooked, the principal beak-shaped process looking forward and surmounted by an uneciually bifid accessory process, the smaller division of which is sometimes minute or even absent; guard wide, slightly bilobed and striate.
The color has been entirely lost except the brown spots at the bases of the notopodial setae.
The cuticle is only slightly iridescent, most so on the head.
Sagami Bay, 3,700, 63 fms., type; Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms.
ONUPHID^.
Hyalinoecia tubicola (Miiller) Mgrn.
What should perhaps be designated as a distinct variety of this species occurs throughout the entire region of Suruga Bay and Totomi Sea.
in from 63 to 167 fathoms.
3,707, 3,715, 3.737, 3,740.
Northia macrobranchiata Mcintosh.
This species was dredged by the "Albatross" south of Yedo, Japan, on a bottom of green mud, in 345 fathoms.
The species is evidently quite common and widely distributed throughout Sagami and Suruga Bays and the Totomi Sea in depths from 31 fathoms at station 3,703 to 749 fathoms at 3,696.
A few specimens occur in the collections from each of the following additional stations, 3,704, 3,707, 3,715, and 3,740.
At 3,696 a number of the peculiar tubes of this species were procured.
It is surprising to find them covered at a depth of 749 fathoms with bits of wood, pine twigs and needles, leaves, straw, jtc.
The only entire specimen in the collection comes from station 3,704, and permits the description of the posterior end, hitherto unknown.
The branchiffi continue to the 2d preanal somite, on which they still equal the foot in length, are quite thick, and bear the notopodial cirrus as a minute process, of not more than i their diameter, on the external side of their base.
Anal cirri 2, very delicate and slender, equalling the length of the last 7 somites.
Northia geophiliformis sp.
nov. (PI.
XXV, figs.
57, 58, 59.)
Upon a cursory examination this species presents a striking general resemblance to Geophilus or other slender Chilopod, a similarity which is enhanced by the regular alternation of reddish-bro^Ti and pale bands across the dorsum.
The form is slender, elongated, shghtly depressed and hnear, but just perceptibly tapering from the anterior fourth posteriorly, the hinder body region becoming at the same time more rounded.
None of the numerous specimens is complete, more or less of the caudal end being deficient in each case, but a separate caudal end of 44 somites was found.
The type specimen has a length of 5.7 mm.
for the anterior 109 somites and a maximum width between the tips of the anterior parapodia of 2 mm.
Prostomium small, narrow, inconspicuous, scarcely more than a common meeting place for its conspicuous appendages, and closely united with the peristomium.
No trace of eyes can be detected.
Frontal tentacles prominent, rather slender, fully as long as prostomium, ovate-oblong in outline, but circular in section, attached by contiguous constricted bases and strongly divergent.
Palpi also prominent, about twice the size of frontal tentacles and projecting almost horizontally outward from sides of dorsum of mouth.
Dorsal appendages of prostomium large and conspicuous with remarkably long amuikted basal pieces, and, except' the outer lateral, long, slender, whiplike styles, which are very fragile and usually detached or injured; median tentacle distinctly smaller than inner laterals, its tip reaching only to VIII, while the inner laterals reach to XI, its base constantly only § that of inner laterals, of 6 narrow rings and terminal ^ not annulated, while that of the inner lateral has 9 rings and a terminal smooth portion ; outer laterals in the same transverse line with inner laterals, occupying nearly the position in which eyes are ordinarily present, usually perfect, short, reaching, when reflexed, to IV only, remarkable for the great length of basal piece, which equals, or even exceeds the style, and consists of 11 annulations, decreasing in size and distinctness toward the end; style short, relatively stout, undivided, but sometimes bearing a terminal filament.
The buccal ring is probably compounded of the peristomium and the succeeding somite, the posterior bearing the tentacular cirri and the anterior the so-called palpi with which it is connected; longer than prostomium, ventral and lateral oral lobes prominent.
Tentacular cirri slender and rather long, reaching to the tips of the frontal tentacles, bases with 2 or 3 obscure annuli but no distinct segments.
First 4 setigerous somites sharply distinguished from the others by their length, which causes the parapodia to stand widely apart instead of being crowded, as well as by the length and slenderness of the cirriform processes of the parapodia ; first much the longest and anteriorly the widest, the succeeding three becoming successively shorter and the margins rounded, thus gradually approaching the typical form, which is short, wide and depressed, -^dth dorsal and ventral surfaces nearly flat.
Anal segment prominent and somewhat funnelform, with 2 pairs of crowded, long, slender caudal cirri, the more posterior equal to 13, the other to 10 terminal somites.
First 4 parapodia arise at a low level from the anterior ends of their somites; except the first, which is directed shghtly forward, they project almost straight laterad.
Body of parapodia simple, relatively slender, and about equalling length of somite to which it is attached; bearing 3 long slender tapering cirri, the dorsal longest, the middle, which continues the neuropodium as a postsetal process, next, and the ventral shortest, the latter also attached nearest to base of parapodium ; both dorsal and ventral cirri slightly constricted at base, then a little swollen, then regularly tapering and slender.
Fifth parapodium more dorsad, the base and neuropodium smaller, ventral cirrus reduced to a short, thick glandular lobe, its postsetal lobe shorter and little cirriform; it bears the first branchia.
On succeeding somites the glandular area into which the ventral cirrus becomes converted crowds the much reduced parapodium dorsad, until by XV it is directed upward and quite invisible from below, but a reverse change sets in by XXX, and, with the final disappearance of the glandular area, the parapodia again become quite lateral in the posterior half of the body.
By XV also the postsetal lobe has become a small inconspicuous process, but the dorsal cirri, although somewhat reduced, remain always prominent.
Branchiae prominent but simple, arising from a common base with the dorsal cirri, and when fully estabhshed appearing as the direct continuation of that base, of which the cirrus has more the aspect of a lateral branch; they are erect and long enough to just reach middle line of back when best developed.
Sometimes they are foreshadowed by a bifurcation of the dorsal cirrus of the 4th parapodium, but normally appear abruptly on the 5th as a slender filament equalling the cirrus in length, but quickly increase to a considerably greater length, and continue with no change except a slight decrease in size as far at least as the 110th setigerous somite.
As the posterior 44 somites show no trace of branchiae it is evident that this species must reach a length quite remarkable for the genus.
With the exception of the posterior hooked acicula, which are relatively stout and pale yellow, the setae are delicate and colorless.
Compound hooked setae are confined to the first 3 parapodia in all the specimens examined with reference to this point, and, with the exception of 2 or 3 slender pointed dorsal setse, are the only kind present in the first parapodium; end piece with 3 processes, the terminal one longest; guard prolonged into an acute tip which reaches far beyond the body of the seta.
Slender, capillary setae are present in all the parapodia, but in small number in the first 3, while from the 4th to about the 10th they are the only kind occurring, and are somewhat larger, with more evident serrate wings.
Parapodia of the middle region each bear a tuft of such setae projecting from the dorsum of the foot in a strongly dorsolateral direction above the hooked uncina.
Raddle-shaped setse are first detected on the 10th parapodium, on which 1 appears, while posteriorly 4 or 5 occur between the capillary setae and the hooked aciculum.
They are very delicate and easily overlooked, with slender, somewhat curved stems and obhquely truncate, slightly curved terminal blades bearing about 16 deUcate spines, and marked with as many converging striae.
In addition to the ordinary acicula, each neuropodium, beginning at about the 10th or 12th, is provided with 2 pale yellow uncina with longitudinally striated stem and bifid guarded tip, the promimal process being much the larger and the guard broad, closefitting and delicately striated.
Color fairly well preserved; each segment of the anterior region marked with a posterior, broader, reddish-brown band, which spreads over the entire segment laterally, and an anterior whitish or pale yellow one; head generally reddish, with a median anterior dark area; dark pigment cells also in the cephalic appendages and branchise; other appendages, ventral surface and entire posterior region unpigmented; cuticle with a brilliant greenish iridescense.
Tube delicate, mucoid, covered with fine silt.
North of Sendai Bay, 3,771 , 62 fms.
Type and numerous other specimens.
Also Sagami Bay, 3.695.
175-191 fms.
; 3,698, 153 fms.
PAKANORTHIA gen. nov. linermediatehetween Northia Siud Rhajnphohrachiiim.
Two pairs of parapodia are prolonged and carried forward on the ventral side of the head as in Rhamphobrachium, but their setae are coarse acicula as in Northia, not capillary as in Rhamphohrachium.
Paranorthia brevicornuta sp.
nov. (PI.
XX V. figs.
52-56.)
A small species represented by an incomplete specimen of 62 somites, having a length of 22 mm.
and a maximum width between the tips of parapodia of 1.25 mm.
Prostomium, as seen from above in the slightly bent up attitude of the specimen, nearly circular, but slightly and broadly emarginate iDehind, frontal surface smooth, regularly rounded.
Eyes absent.
Tentacles all in anterior half of prostomium, the paired in advance of the median, and the outer lateral well down on sides below level of frontal tentacles ; basal pieces of median tentacles shorter than those of lateral, which are as long as h width of head ; terminal pieces of median and inner lateral subequal, subulate, their length about U width of head; outer lateral shorter, ecpialling width of head, stouter and Ijlunt.
Frontal tentacles globoid, their constricted bases in contact on anterior margin of head.
Palpi bean-shaped, length equal to style of outer lateral tentacle.
Peristomium distinct, about ^ length of prostomiu'm on the dorsum, longer ventrally, where, as well as laterally, it is crowded forward by the following somites and, Avith the prostomium, is bent somewhat dorsad.
Tentacular cirri small, awl-shaped, about equalling peristomium in length.
The first two pairs of parapodia are enlarged and l^ent forward beneath the head as in Rhamphobrachium, but they are less produced, and the third pair is not similarly modified as in that'genus.
Tlie first reaches the level of the anterior margin of the head, and the second as far as the base of the median tentacle, the total length of the second being somewhat greater.
Each is svibcylindrical, about 3 times as long as thick, truncate, with short presetal and postsetal lobes, the latter somewhat longer and deeper, and a small papilla-like lobe on the ventro-distal angle.
Dorsal cirri arise from the middle of the dorsal surface by a slightly constricted base and then bend outward and extend stiffly nearly parallel to the neuropodium or even approach it and reach somewhat beyond its tip.
Ventral cirri also arise by a constricted pigmented base, beyond which they have the form of a spruce cone and extend toward the middle ventral line, which they nearly reach owing to the approximation of the parapodia; the first arises nearly opposite to the dorsal cirrus, the second near the base of the foot.
The third and all succeeding parapodia are lateral in position and gradually attain a higher plane; they are smaller and project straight outward.
On the third the neuropodial cirrus is much shorter, broad oval in outline, and on succeeding parapodia becomes a mere opacjue rounded lobe, which gradually becomes less and less prominent and disappears at about XXX.
The tenth foot is typical.
It consists of a short trimcate neuropodium with a small presetal lobe, a tapering bent notopodial cirrus of about twice its length, and the reduced neuropodial cirrus.
The posterior parapodia are further reduced, but, owing to the very poor preservation of this region, cannot be accurately described.
Branchiae appear on somite X as a single thick filament rising from the dorsal side of the notopodial cirrus; the brancliia is double the length of the cirrus in succeeding somites, becoming bifid on XXIII and thence backward rising erect as two equal divisions twice as long as the cirrus.
The posterior end is much macerated, but on the last 12 or 15 somites the branchiae appear to consist of single filaments of undiminished length.
On a very large number of parapodia the setae are destroyed, but enough remain to permit the description of their general character and distribution.
The first tw^o enlarged parapodia each bear 3 large setae or acicula, but unfortunately the tips of all have been broken off.
Succeeding somites exhibit compound, capillary and paddleshaped setae, all of which are colorless.
Compound setae of two forms, the first of which appears to be confined to a group of about half-a-dozen in the ventral part of the third parapodium ; they have the end of the shaft rather abruptly enlarged 29 on both sides for a short distance^ margin of sock&t tipped by a rather long process, proximad to which are a few rather conspicuous teeth; blade relatively short and broad, strongly hooked and bifid at the end with a guard somewhat produced at the apex.
In addition to these all of the anterior parapodia, from the third at least to the fifteenth, bear in the middle and ventral part of the neuropodium a number of compound setse without guards; these are more numerous anteriorly than posteriorly ; the shafts have nearly the same form as the guarded setae, but the blades are straight or only slightly curved, rather broad proximally, but with slender mucronate tips and obliquely striated with one or both margins finely serrate; the blades vary greatly in length, those in the dorsal part of a bundle being more than twice as long as the most ventral ones in the anterior parapodia, while posteriorly only the short ones remain.
No compound setse occur in the most posterior region, but just where they cease cannot be accurately determined.
Capillary setse are the most numerous and constant, occurring in all parapodia from the third caudad.
They differ considerably in length, those dorsad of the aciculum being the longest and the stoutest as well, those ventrad, which replace the compound setae as they disappear, retain about the length of the latter.
Toward the extreme posterior end they appear to diminish both in number and size.
All are slender, tapering, very acutely pointed with a narrow smooth-edged 'vvdng, at the beginning of which a more or less pronounced bend occurs.
Paddle-shaped setae are also found in the extreme dorsal part of some of the anterior somites, but their distribution has not been ascertained.
They have very slender shafts, wide, suddenly expanded, asymmetrical, curved ends provided with about 20 very fine points of equal length.
All of the acicula are very pale yellow.
Besides the projecting acicula or setae, the first two parapodia exhibit'several (perhaps about 10, though the number cannot be certainly determined) long threadlike internal acicula of constant thickness arranged parallel to one another in a regular coil within the foot, those of the first being especially long and forming an additional snarl near the base of its ventral side.
Notopodial acicula also appear, those of the first 2 feet being rather strong, straight and stiff and ending in the base of the cirri ; in the remaining parapodia they are delicate fibres passing far into the cirri.
The ordinary neuropodial acicula are 3 in number, the dorsalmost very stout, all straight and tapering, with the slightly protruding point blunt or slightly enlarged and sometimes a little curved.
Guarded acicula have been detected in the ventral part of the neuropodium as far forward as the eleventh foot.
Usually two occur, and they are slender, not exceeding the larger compound setse in diameter, nearly straight, slightly enlarged below the tip.
which is bifid and provided with a broad guard.
Suruga Bay.
3.713, 45 fms.
Onuphus cirrobranchiata sp.
nov. (PI.
XXV, figs.
60-63.)
A rather small species, the type of which consists of 59 setigerous somites, and measures 42 nmi.
long, with a width of body at somite X of 2.3 mm., and a maximum distance between the tips of the parapodia at the same place of 5.2 mm.
Prostomium small, about semicircular from above, the length aljout equalling the peristomium at the sides.
Eyes, 1 pair, reddish-brown, circular, entirely exposed; frontal tentacles prominent, rounded, length ^ length of prostomium.
strongly divergent, directed forward, downward and outward.
Tentacles with short articulated bases, which are httle longer than thick and about equal frontal tentacles in size , each of 2-4 rings; styles slightly enlarged at base, long, slender, smooth, entirely non-articulate; median longest, reaching somite XIV, inner lateral XI, and outer lateral IV.
Palpi short, thick, prominent, slightly bilobed, strongly divergent from ventral surface of head, and connected with ventral margins of lateral peristomial lobes by a pair of ridges.
Peristomium (which probably consists of two coalesced somites, the first very small and anterior to peristomial cirri) longest laterally, there equalhng the prostomium ; cirri directly in fine with eyes and far forward, slender, tapering, short, scarcely reaching anterior boundary of prostomium, and posteriorly to middle of somite III.
Somite III (next to the peristomium) is nearly equal in length to the prostomium and peristomium combined or to somites IV and V, anterior margin much \\ider than posterior and projecting considerably beyond any other anterior somite.
Remaining somites well defined, and of about equal size until the tapering posterior region is reached.
Body rounded, very little depressed, most so in the middle region when distended with eggs, dorsum high and arched, venter flattened.
Anus terminal, the anal somite truncate and slightly crenulate ; caudal cirri very long and slender, equalling the last 16 or 17 somites.
Enlarged first pair of parapodia very prominent, nearly equalling their somite in length, and projecting strongly forward by the sides of the head, and slightly outward and downward; form simple, postsetal lobe elongated, reaching slightly beyond tip of slender dorsal cirrus which arises from middle of foot, ventral cirrus shorter, arising from base of foot and ending opposite root of dorsal cirrus.
All other parapodia are much smaller, but the 2d and 3d project slightly forward, and are somewhat transitional in other respects also; dorsal cirri and postsetal lobes increase in length and become slender and tapering, reaching their maxinuuu by XI or XII, when the latter is fully ecpial to the body of the foot, and the former is 3 times as long and capable of reaching the dorsal mid-line, though habitualh' carried outward and backward; beyond this region they decrease in length, the postsetal lobe retaining its slender form, but becoming of insignificant size by the middle of the Ijody, while the dorsal cirriis reaches as far as the tips of the setie.
The ventral cirrus diminishes in size rapidly ; on the 2d and 3d it remains as a short thick cirrus, by the 4th it is a low dome-shaped opacpie whitish lobe below, and distinctly separated from, the foot; posterior to XII it (hminishe«, and has practically disappeared by XVIII.
The l)ranchicT are characteristic.
They usually begin as a single filament, or occasionally two, on XIII or XIV, arising with the dorsal cirrus from a common base, and dorsad of the latter; this ciuickly becomes subdivided c|uite to the base, which shifts its position to the caudal side of the cirrus.
The flivision into 2, 3 and 4 filaments takes place somewhat irregularly, but each filament attains practically its full length immediately; by XVIII or XX the typical number of 5 is reached, and continues, with occasional variations to 6, to about XXXV, when 4 again becomes the predominant number to about XLVIII, beyond Avhich it further diminishes; somites LVI to LVIII bear only small but distinct branchial tubercles, and LIX, the last segment bearing parapodia, has none.
Some variation in the number of filaments occurring on somites toward the ends of the series is noticeable.
The filaments of which the branchis are composed are very dehcate and, as their wrinkled condition indicates, very contractile; they are generally about f as long as the dorsal cirri, but probably ecjual or exceed these in life, are deeply cleft and arise in a cluster, though occasionally a more pectinate arrangement is indicated.
Setae of four kinds, two being coarse uncini.
Compound uncini confined to the first 4 parapodia, yellow, stout; appendix curved, bifid, the terminal process large and hooked, the accessory one much smaller, both included in the delicate double truncated guard.
This is the only form of seta in the first foot, in which some of them l:)ecome very large and, in one example, lose the articulation, though this is present in the type specimen; they become successively smaller on the 2d, 3d and 4th parapodia.
in which they he just ventrad of the other setse and next to the postsetal lobe.
Beginning with the 5th parapodium, simple uncini replace the compound ones just described, though they are only fully estabhshed several somites further caudad, and are usually two in number throughout the anterior branchial region, but may be 3, or even 4, toward the posterior end.
They are yellow, stout, nearly straight or slightly bent back (this direction being opposite to the compound uncini), sHghtly swollen subterminally, the end bifid with two stout, ventrally directed processes, of which the proximal is the larger; guard obliciuely fan-shaped and striated ; stem rather coarsely striated, which is not the case with the compound uncini.
Slender, pointed setae occur in all of the parapodia except the first, arranged in typical somites in two horizontal rows above and below the uncini.
the dorsal one being larger.
These are the only seise of sufficient length to reach beyond the postsetal lobe, and anteriorly even these do not.
Stems much slenderer than the uncini, only the larger ones exhibiting any color, bent dorsad abruptly but slightly at about the middle of the exposed portion; a reverse but more gentle bend in the opposite direction, bringing the terminal part into a direction parallel to the base, occurs in the setae of the posterior half of the body; flange always on ventral side, widest at angle of seta, disappearing terminally, leaving an acute very brittle point; both stem and flange obliquely striated.
On the 4th parapodium the flanged setse are smaller and fewer; on the 3d and 2d only the dorsal bundle occurs, reduced on the latter to 2 or 3 very small, acute, scarcely winged, colorless setae.
Posteriorly also the winged portion becomes reduced in length.
The 4th kind of seta is the most numerously represented but the least conspicuous of any; a single one appears in the dorsal bundle of the 2d parapodium, but in all succeeding parapodia a close bundle of many occurs between the postsetal process and the dorsal fascicle of flanged setae.
They are of very unequal length, the longest being on the posterior side, but none equal ^ the length of the flanged setje.
They have slender stems terminated by a delicate funnel-shaped enlargement with a crenulated or toothed margin.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
; 3,704, 94 fms.
; 3,707, 63-75 fms.
; Suruga Bay, 3,738, 167 fms., type.
LUMBRICONEREID^.
Lumbriconereis heteropoda v. Marenz.
This .species and L. bifurcata Mcintosh are very closel}' alhed, if not identical; some of the examples contained in the present collection are so nearly intermediate between the two that difficulty was found in referring them.
As a whole the series is most closely connected with L. heteropoda, which is also the prior name.
It is the most abundant and widely distributed species contained in the collections, occurring at all locahties on the coast of Japan at which dredging was done, though in many cases represented by fragments only, and at depths from 36 to 190 fathoms.
It was taken at the folloTving stations: 3,695; 3,698, 3,703, 3,707, 3,714, 3,724, 3,735, 3,738, 3,739, 3,740 and 3,755.
Lumbriconereis japonica v. Marenz.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
; Sm-uga Bay, 3,717, 100 fms.
; 3,718, 65 fms.
; 3,736, 480 fms.
Laranda robusta sp.
nov. (PI.
XXVI, figs.
64.
65.)
This is evidently a species of large size.
The incomplete type specimen has a width of 6.5 mm., and a length of 165 mm, for the head and anterior 202 somites, and a smaller example of less than ^ the diameter of the type, consisting of upward of 400 somites, of wdiich the posterior 100 or so have been recently regenerated, measures 210 mm.
The prostomium has a peculiar flattened form, curved and hollowed below like the bowl of a spoon ; the outline from above has the form of a haycock with a broad base ; in the larger specimens its length is less than the first 3 somites, in the smaller one considerably greater; in both it has a distinct dorsal longitudinal sulcus, and is slightly dovetailed into the peristomium.
No eyes visible.
The peristomium and the next segment are nearly identical in form, the former differing only in its relation to the mouth and prostomium, and in the more strongly marked postoral grooves ; both are very distinctly marked, and are shorter than the first setigerous somite.
The body is nearly circular in section throughout, the dorsum slightly more convex than the venter, wdth the parapodia somewhat below the middle lateral line, especially toward the posterior end.
The diameter is remarkably uniform, with a shght increase toward the middle, and a sudden diminution in the last 7 or 8 mm.
of the small specimen.
All of the segments are very distinctly marked and of equal length for at least | of the length.
No anal cirri are present.
The parapodia are uniform in character throughout; in the middle of the body, where they reach the largest size they about ec^ual the length of the somite, are stout, not tapered, obliquely truncate, and bear a single blunt, conical postsetal process which arises from the ventro-lateral angle and is directed outward and shghtly caudad; a low welt passes around its base anteriorly.
The setae are arranged in each foot in a simple ciu-ved rank between the postsetal process and the presetal welt.
In the anterior parapodia only slender setae occur, and are arranged in two somewhat divergent groups, of which the ventral includes 4 or 5, the dorsal 8-12.
All are pale brown, long, slender, simple, sharp-pointed and wingless, Avith a gentle sigmoid curve.
After about the first 20 somites the setae of the dorsal bundle become stouter and of a deeper color.
More posteriorly, in the type at XXVI on one side, XXVII on the other, a single stout aciculum appears with its end projecting at the ventral end of the series.
It has much the form of a blunt pointed lead pencil and is of a deep brown color.
The color is an iridescent purphsh-brown with dark brown spots above the bases of the parapodia, which tend to spread toward the median line as incomplete narrow zones on each somite.
Type, Suruga Bay, 3,709, 173 to 260 fms.
; also Suruga Bay, 3,737, 3,738, 3,739, 65 to 167 fms.
Notocirrus zonata sp.
nov. (PI.
XXVI, figs.
66, 67.)
A piece of the posterior end consisting of upward of 120 somites, and representing probably nearly ^ of the animal.
It measures 65 mm.
long and 3 mm.
wide including the parapodia, but not the setae.
The body is nearly circular and tapers toward the anus, which is guarded by a pair of short broad lateral lobes representing a pair of cirri or perhaps two pairs coalesced.
The parapodia are described from the most anterior somite present ; they are situated about twice as far from the dorsal as from the ventral middle line, are rather small and slender, wdth a prominent posterior ventral process, which is somewhat longer than the rest of the foot, and is directed caudad and laterad.
Dorsal papilla small but prominent.
Setae 5, 2 in dorsal, 3 in ventral bundle, colorless or nearly so,with delicate, tapering and winged tips, and sigmoid with the ends directed dorsad; those of the ventral bundle shorter and only slightly bent; of the dorsal geniculate, the ventralmost, sometimes both of this bundle, strongly serrated at the winged knee.
The color is very striking; the ground, including the parapodia, is pale yellow, the middle of each somite completely encircled by a rich orange-brown zone.
Type only, Totomi Sea, 3,729, 34 fms.
Nino'e palmata sp.
iiov.
(PI.
xxvi, fig?.
6S-7i.)
Represented by 98 anterior somites, having a length of 34 mm.
and a width of 2.5 mm.
at somite XX.
Prostomium of the form of a depressed convex cone with a rather acute apex, length 1^ times the base and about thrice length of peristomium, dovetailed ^ into peristomium on dorsal side, delicate lateral grooves from palpi to apex.
No eyes visible.
Palpi large, free lobes at sides of mouth and dorsad of it.
Peristomium longest at sides of head, to which and to the succeeding somite it is partly united laterally; ventrally produced into 3 lobes bounding the mouth laterally and posteriorly.
Somite II distinct, except where united with the peristomium ventrolaterally, length about f peristomium; it bears no parapodium.
Succeeding somites very distinct, outlines rounded and regular and of nearly equal length throughout.
Body exactly circular, although the presence of the branchia?
give to it a somewhat depressed aspect.
Parapodia appear on II, short, about equal to length of somites from which they arise, the branchiate ones somewhat exceeding this, prominent, sloping slightly forward, outline nearly straight to the broadly rounded or truncate end, which is divided into presetal and postsetal lobes, the former somewhat the longer, the latter bearing the gills.
The branchiae are processes of the postsetal lobe, which even as far forward as V has developed a longer cirrus-like dorsal piece and a shorter and thicker ventral piece.
(_)n succeeding somites the former diverges more and more dorsad, and from the dorsal side of the ventral division successive short thick filaments arise, there being 2 branches on V, 3 on VII, 4 on IX, which number continues, with occasional variations to 5, to XXVI or XXVII.
When best developed the branchial filaments spread ventrad well below the seta^ ; the dorsalmost cirrus-like one is about twice the length of the others and curves over the back; the next one or two are separated but the lowermost 2 or 3 remain connected and diverge like fingers in a palmate manner.
All are much wrinkled and evidently contractile.
The dorsalmost filament disappears suddenly at about XXX, and the others gradually undergo reduction until finally only a minute papilla on the postsetal lobe remains.
Seta) of two types, both simple; bent lance-shaped ones and hooked, guarded ones which exhibit two modifications toward the two ends of the body.
The lance-shaped setae are pale yellow, colorless at the tip, and occur in two groups in anterior somites, the number being reduced more posteriorly by the gradual replacement of the middle ones by hooked setae; they are most numerous in the dorsal group (5-6 dorsal and 2-3 ventral in the middle branchial region) and here persist the longest; the knife-edge flange dehcately striated, widest at base, diminishing toward tip, and leaving a very acute point, flange directed dorsally in the ventral setae, ventral in the dorsal; shaft of setae bent more or less strongly at the base of the flange and on the margins of the bmidle, the tips often recurved in the opposite direction.
Posteriorly the lance setae become reduced to 2 or 3 in the dorsal bundle; darker, even black, in color, straighter, more slender and with a much reduced flange.
The hooked setae of the anterior segments exhibit transitional characters between the lance-shaped setae and the posterior hooked ones.
Anteriorly they are pale yellow, posteriorly darker as they pass into the more typical hooks, stouter than adjacent lance-shaped setae, but of the same form until near the tip, when the shaft suddenly contracts, bends slightly l^ackward and terminates in a short truncate hook, bearing about five short teeth of diminishing size; at the same place the flange forms a guard which includes the hook and conforms to its shape.
Posteriorly the hooks become darker, longer, the tip stouter and more prominently hooked, the nimiber of teeth 7 or 8, of which the most proximal is the largest, the blade absent except where it forms the hood-like guard, and the stem club-shaped.
Skin strongly iridescent, but color all gone.
Only the type known from station 3,767, Sendai Bay, 14-18 fms.
GONIADID^.
Goniada (Leonnatus) foliacea sp.
nov. (PL XXVI, figs.
75, 76.)
The largest specimen measures 98 mm.
long, 4 mm.
between the tips of the setae in the anterior region, and 5.3 mm.
at the beginning of the posterior region.
The relatively stout body consists of 160 somites, in addition to j^erhaps 3 or 4 which have been lost at the caudal end.
The posterior region, beginning at somite LXIII, is filled with sexual products in the larger individuals and, being very readily detached, may separate and swim independently at maturity.
Head prominent but shorter than in most species, bluntly conical, slightly depressed, length twice width, composed of only four strongly marked rings, the basal one nearly equalling all the others in length, and the latter decreasing to the tip, furrows on ventral and dorsal surfaces alternating in position and joined by a jjair of lateral zigzag grooves which terminate caudally in a small slit-like i)it on each side of the peristomium.
dorsal to the palpi.
(.
)n the ventral surface of the head is an elongated, narrow, triangular, depressed, translucent area reaching from the apex to the mouth, into which the annular grooves do not extend, thus cutting off on each side lateral portions of the rings, wliich appear as four pairs of low, thick, slightly projecting lobes to which the depressed form of the head is chiefly due.
The 4 apical tentacles are present in but one example, and even in this are imperfect through maceration.
Palpi (lateral lips), a pair of prominent rounded lobes, with largely free, thin, anterior margins at the sides of the mouth.
Peristomium indistinctly separated from the base of the prostomium and the first foot-bearing somite; ventrally it forms a prominent median lip.
In two of the small examples from Sta.
3,771 and one larger from Sta.
3,695, a minute cirrus is present just in line with the parapodia on the buccal ring, but cannot be detected in the type specimen, which is the largest examined.
It is possible that the buccal ring may consist of two somites in this genus.
Except the first, all foot-bearing somites are distinct, and in the anterior region about 3 to 3^ times as -wide as long, increasing in size to about XLV, then remaining without material change to LXIII, between which and LXII a weakening of the body walls occurs, caudad of which the width rapidly decreases for 4 or 5 somites, beyond which the body assumes a linear form, though the much increased length of the parapodia results in a greater total width and a more depressed aspect than anteriorly.
About 100 somites constitute the posterior region; the type has 97, but 3 or 4 caudal somites are wanting.
Some smaller specimens -^ith the anal ring present lack caudal cirri, which have doubtless been lost.
As typical of the anterior region the parapodium of somite XV may be described.
This consists of a rather stout neuropodium having a length equal to h the mdth of the somite, and divided into a broad, foliaceous, ovate pyriform presetal lobe, the tip of which is divided by a deep cleft into two narrow tongue-like halves, and a somewhat slender lanceolate postsetal lobe, placed just opposite to the cleft in the presetal lobe, which it slightly exceeds in length, ^'entral cirrus arises from basal half of neuropodium, rather thick and stout; its tip falls a httle short of the setigerous lobes.
Dorsal cirrus consists of a rather stout rounded stalk, with swollen base and somewhat flattened, foliaceous, nearly orbicular or broadly ovate-lanceolate appendage, which bends abruptly dorsad.
Toward the head the postsetal lobe becomes shorter than the presetal, and is absent in the first 3 parapodia; the presetal also becomes narrower, and finally loses the terminal bifurcation; the cirri approach more closely and crowd the neuropodium, the foliaceous character of the dorsal cirrus disappearing.
The first parapodiiim consists of a neuropodium without setae, but bearing a long, slender, cirrus-like presetal lobe, and dorsal and ventral cirri, w^hich differ from the typical ones only in their smaller size.
Posteriorly, beginning at about somite XXXV, a small conical notopodiiun appears just ventrad and cephalad of the dorsal cirrus.
This bears setae at once, and, in relation thereto, is divided into narrow presetal and postsetal lobes, of which the latter is more ventrad, features which become more evident as the notopodium increases in size toward the end of the anterior region.
The first few parapodia of the posterior region are transitional in form, but quickly become more foliaceous and assume the characteristic structure which is typically developed on somite LXXV.
Here neuropodium and notopodium are well separated by a wide interval, and each bears its appropriate cirrus.
The former is essentially as in the anterior parapodia, but both lobes are much broader and more leaf -like, the 2 divisions of the presetal more divergent, the dorsal considerably the larger and both longer than the postsetal lobe ; ventral cirrus relatively shorter.
Notopodium about one-half length of neuropodium, obtusely rounded, broadly attached, and not constricted at base; presetal and postsetal lobes not prominent, the latter more ventral, so that an oblique terminal notch appears in face views of the parapodium.
Dorsal cirrus rises from the base of the notopodium, and is directed almost vertically dorsad; form similar to anterior cirri, but stalk shorter.
More anteriorly each lobe of the notopodium bears a slender terminal papilla, that of the presetal being quite long and slender.
Toward the posterior end the two divisions of the foot become still more widely separated, and both again more slender and less fohaceous, while the dorsal presetal lobe of the neuropodium becomes more prominent.
The neuropodial setae are arranged in a single vertical fan-shaped row, which spreads very widely in the foliaceous swimming feet of the posterior or genital region, the number of setae corresponding closely with the width of the lobe.
All are of the same form, compound, wdth very long stems, especially on the swimming feet, and slender, finely pointed, and very delicately fringed blades, which are longest in the middle of each bundle and diminish dorsally and ventrally.
The figure does not show the full side view of the blade.
Notopodial setae similarly arranged in a fan-shaped vertical series of correspondingly smaller spread; all simple, colorless, slightly bent and curved, and tapering to an extremel3^ acute point; the surface marked with fine granules arranged in oblique rows and appearing as somewhat irregular serrations at the edge.
Jaws black or deep lorown and opaque, forming a continuous but irregular ring just caudad of a circle of 18 obtuse lobes which lie at extreme the end of the fully protruded proboscis, and when retracted cover the jaws in somite XXIII.
One princii)al jaw on each side and dorsad, the left one bearing two long hooked spines shaped like the venom fangs of serpents; the right one bearing in addition 2 or .3 smaller but similar spines on the medial side.
In the dorsal interval between the principal jaws are 14 or 15 smaller accessory ones arranged in an irregular transverse band ; they are of inconstant form but each bears a pair of, or even 3, hooked teeth on a rather stout base.
The ventral distance between the principal jaws is more than twice the dorsal, and is occupied by a fairly even and continuous row of 2S to 30 small jaws of various sizes and forms, some being c^uite rudimentary.
As a rule each bears a single claw-like hook directed, as are the others, caudad on an irregular orbicular base having a pair of anteriorly directed, divergent processes.
No longitudinal series of accessory jaws is present.
A low muscular fold runs along the mid-dorsal line of the pharynx from its cephalic attachment to the predental lobes, but does not involve a complete folding of the pharyngeal walls as in Goniada distorta.
The proboscis papillre' are all of one kind, elevated mammiliform, the enlarged somewhat pyramidal bases much crowded in the retracted organ and the teat-like summits pointed and slightly curved.
They measure .014 mm.
in height, and .009 mm.
in diameter of base.
Color a general gambose yellow, lighter in the furrows and on the contiguous surfaces of parapodia and in the head region, and modified posteriorly by the presence of the eggs, which crowd the sides of the somites and the parapodia.
The anterior region, exclusive of the head and a few somites, is very dark and opaque from the presence of an abundant purplish-brown pigment deposited in a narrow zone around each somite, which broadens above and below each parapodium, and affects the terminal parts of the cirri and, to a less degree, the setigerous lobes.
The anterior end is iridescent x^dth greenish and bluish reflections.
A curiously constant feature is a ventral series of minute but conspicuous black spots, situated in the median line of each intersegmental furrow of the posterior region, at the beginning of which they appear abruptly.
Sagami Bay, 3.695, 190 fms., type and one other specimen; North of Sendai Bay, 3,771, 62 fms., 4 specimens of smaller size.
Goniada distorta sp.
nov.
This species is described from a single incomplete specimen consisting of 106 somites and having a length of 66 mm., and in the anterior region a width of body of 2 mm.
and between the tips of the parapodia 2.8 mm., while posteriorly the same measurements are respectively 1..3 mm.
and .3.7 mm.
Body slender and nearly round throughout, increasing in diameter to somite LX, then diminishing and becoming Hnear posteriorly; rather wider dorsally than ventrally and somewhat tumid above the bases of the parapodia; posteriorly the great length of the parapodia gives an appearance of depression.
Head of the usual tapering, elongated form, consisting, besides the basal piece, which constitutes nearly ^ of its length, of 7 distinct annulations, diminishing in size and terminated by an 8th slightly wider one.
The prostomium is circular, not flattened as in G. foliacea, and the furrows are continuous all around ; there is no lateral groove, but a pit is present on each side at the posterior margin of the head.
Only a single imperfect apical tentacle, of clavate form and having a length about equal to the apical ring, is present.
Eyes absent.
Peristomium not clearly distinguished from the succeeding somites.
The partial protrusion of the pharynx greatly alters the appearance of the mouth, but the lateral lobes or palpi, and the lips appear not to differ from G. foliacea.
The somites are distinct, but show no indication of subdi\'ision into rings.
The parapodia differ in many respects from those of G. foliacea.
The anterior or uniramal ones are prominent and slender, have a length exceeding ^ the diameter of the body, and stand out abruptly from the middle of their somites.
Neuropodium a compressed cylinder about as deep as long, bearing at the end one postsetal and two presetal cylindrical cirriform processes, of which the dorsal presetal is slightly the longest.
Neuropodial cirrus, which also arises near the end, but on the ventral posterior face of the neuropodium is slightly longer, and at its base nearly twice the diameter of the setal lobes, and has a conical form.
Notopodial cirrus separated by a narrow interval from the neuropodium; it is swollen basally and, near the middle of its dorsal surface, is provided with a shallow depression lined wnth tall columnar cells, beyond which it bends abruptly dorsad at an angle as though deformed, and terminates as a blunt cylindrical or conical piece not at all foliaceous.
The typical foot of the anterior region just described is retained with little change as far forward as the 4th.
The 3d parapodium has only a trace of the dorsal presetal lobe, and the cirri are of larger size than in the typical foot.
The 2d bears still larger cirri, united with the neuropodium, and the latter is still further reduced.
The first postbuccal somite bears a fully formed trilobate setigerous parapodiimi like the second on the left side, and only a sim2:)le cirrus on the right side.
Toward the posterior end of the anterior region the base of the neuropodium increases, and the terminal lobes, especially the presetal, diminish in length.
The neuropodial cirrus at the same time increases until its tip reaches beyond any other part of the foot, while the ventral portion of the neuropodium which bears it becomes partly cut off by distinct anterior and posterior furrows.
Meanwhile the notopodial cirrus has become relatively shorter and stouter and its terminal part slightly flattened antero-posteriorly.
All of these changes become progressively emphasized.
Not till the 54th somite does the notopodium appear as a slender process arising in common with the notopodial cirrus, and reaching as far as the tip of the postsetal lobe, but not to the end of the neuropodial cirrus.
After its abrupt appearance the notopodium becomes gradually shorter and more and more closely united with the cirrus.
Although from its beginning supported by an aciculum the notopodium at first bears no setae, and even as far back as the 65th foot only a single one has been detected.
Indeed, throughout the entire region notopodial setae are very few.
No further important change occurs until somite LXXVI, when the body rather rapidly decreases in diameter and assumes the Unear character of the posterior region, while the parapodia increase in length to 1^ times the width of the body, a change due in part to the larger size of the neuropodium and notopodium, but still more to their elevation upon a common base.
Taking the 100th parapodium as a typical example the following description applies : Base of parapodium nearly as deep as body, swollen with spermatozoa in the example studied, as long or slightly longer than neuropodium, which is again longer as well as deeper than notopodium, each of which divisions is supported by a single rather stout, straight, tapering, yellow aciculum.
Neuropodium divided into two rather short (the dorsalmost the longer), pointed, presetal lobes, and a much broader, leaf-hke, postsetal lobe, the somewhat shorter tip of which lies opposite the interval between the shghtly divergent presetal lobes.
Neuropodial cirrus elongated conical, arising from a distinct base about the middle of the ventral surface of the body of the neuropodium, its tip reaching to end of ventral presetal lobe, from which, however, it naturally diverges ventrad.
Notopodiiim united with its cirrus for about f of its length, only their ends free as short, pointed, triangular, nearly symmetrical, divergent lobes; postsetal lobe rudimentary; cirrus still retains sensory depression but of much reduced size.
The setae are of two kinds.
Those of the neuropodia are arranged in a single fan-shaped group, larger in posterior than anterior somites, but always very much inferior in size to those of G. foliacea; all are colorless, compound, with very slender tapering delicately fringed terminal pieces, which are 3 or 4 times as long in posterior as in anterior somites.
Notopodial setse are few in number; when most numerous in the posterior region forining a small fan-shaped fascicle; simple, colorless, shorter but stouter than neuropodials, slender, slightly curved, very finely pointed, and with the rather coarse granulations confined to the convex border.
Pharynx very long, the jaws in its retracted state in somite XLII; the longitudinal muscular fold larger than in G. foliacea, with a corresponding groove on the coelomic face of the pharynx, and reaching for the entire length of the proboscis; owing to a half turn of the pharynx its posterior end passes spirally around to the ventral side, with the large jaws.
Papillae of two forms ; ver}' numerous bluntly conical ones measuring only .003 mm.
in height are arranged in close irregularly obhque rows over the greater part of the surface ; somewhat larger ones with compressed bifid summits occur more sparingly and are confined to the muscular ridge.
Both have the cuticle thickened and have a single sensory pore just behind the apex.
Predental lobes 16 or 18, diminishing slightly in size from the dorsal to the ventral side.
Jaws black, opaque, forming a complete ring; larger ones somewhat dorsad, symmetrical, each with four claw-like teeth, diminishing in size dorsomediad.
Accessory jaws in a nearly regular ring, but the alternate ones, owung to somewhat smaller size, stand a little anterior to the others; with the exception of a very few unifid and trifid ones, all are bifid, and of similar form, with the two teeth nearly equal and somewhat divergent, the bases irregularly rounded or with a pair of rather short forwardly directed processes; 13 occur between the dorsal interspace, and 18 or 19 ventrally, the latter distance being al^out twice the former, and the jaws consecjuently less crowded.
The color is pale yellow, the cirri and other terminal parts of the posterior parapodia with some brownish-yellow pigment; anterior part of body very pale with a jjinkish iridescence.
A noteworthy feature is the occurrence in this species, as in G. foliacea, of ventral, intersegmental dark spots on the posterior region.
They begin abruptly at somite LXXVII but are less distinct than in that species.
Suriiga Bay, 3,739, 35-65 fms.
GLYOERID^.
Glycera goesi Mgm.
I am quite unable to distinguish between this species and G. decipicns V.
Marenz., under which latter name it has already been recorded in Japanese waters from the Bay of Miya.
The examples from the "Albatross" dredgings are all of small size.
In some the gills are very regularly developed, in others most irregularly and in still others they are altogether retracted.
They come chiefly from moderate depths at the more northern stations.
Sm-uga Bay, 3,715, 65 fms.
; 3,723, 13-16 fms.
; Sendai Bay and north ward, 3,767, 14-18 fms.
; 3,768, 25-27 fms.
; 3,771, 61 fms.
; 3,775, 57 fms.
Glycera tesselata Grube.
This species is widely distriljuted in the Atlantic Ocean, but has not been hitherto recorded from Pacific waters.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
Glycera alba Oersted.
Like G. goesi this species is represented, with one exception, by small examples only and the gills are frequently minute vesicles.
The tubercle which appears on the parapodium just above the branchia in Malmgren's, but not in Oersted's, figures is absent in all of these specimens.
Sagami Bay, 3,702, 31-41 fms.
; Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63 75 fms.
; Suruga Bay, 3,740, 65 fms.
; North Japan, 3,767, 14-18 fms.
; 3,775, 57 fms., the latter the only large example taken.
Glycera robusta Ehlers.
The anterior end of the single large example by wdiich this species is represented is interesting from the regular occurrence of small colonies of dichotomously branching ciliates between the parapodia.
These bear a most striking resembling to the "gills " of G. opisthobranch i V. Marenz.
Suruga Bay, 3,718, 65 fms.
ARICIID^.
Aricia fimbriata sp.
nov. (PI.
XXIV, figs.
31-35.)
A specimen comprising the head and 83 setigerous somites, with a length of 60 mm.
and a maximum diameter of 7 mm., is the type of this species.
Form as usual in the genus, depressed, flat dorsally, strongly convex ventrally, stout anteriorly, and tapering into a long slender fragile posterior region.
This is evidently a species of considerable size, but is represented by 3 short anterior ends and a fragment of the posterior end.
Head mammiform, as \dewed from above, with a dome-shaped basal piece incomplete ventrally, being cut into by a low median ridge which is continued to the mouth from the regularly conical pointed terminal piece.
Mouth ventral, a rather small sht-like or sHghtly quadrate opening, bounded posteriorly by the 2d setigerous somite, laterally by the lobe-like thickenings of the 1st setigerous somite!
and anteriorly by the caudal end of the prostomial ridge; its four angles are prolonged into chinks passing into the furrows bounding the 1st setigerous somite, which is incomplete ventrally, and between the oral lobes of which the second setigerous somite is produced as a wedge-shaped hinder hp.
Parapodia biramous throughout, the first 16 relatively low, with very broad attachment on lateral faces of somites; both notopodia and neuropodia with broad, more or less pectinate postsetal lobes, the latter much the better developed; posterior to the 18th the parapodia are entirely dorsal, the fimbriated postsetal lobes are replaced by simple ones, and the neuropodium is rudimentary.
The 10th parapodium, which is typical of the anterior region, exhibits the following characters : The two rami separated by a narrow cleft; the neuropodium more than tudce as broad as the notopodimn, strictly lateral, consisting of an extensive, sessile, sets-bearing area about 4 times as long transversely as longitudinally, an obscure presetal lobe, and a postsetal lobe which is provided at a short interval from the sets with a high fold bearing about 12-14 conical marginal processes, the dorsahnost of which are somewhat enlarged; notopodium generally similar, the setigerous area raised as a very low compressed ridge, the postsetal lobe narrower but higher, in correspondence with the longer setae, obhquely and broadly palmate, somewhat like a moose's antlers, and bearing about 8 marginal processes wliich trend dorsally, toward which side they are larger and the last sometimes bifid.
Anteriorly the changes in the paSipodia consist in a gradual reduction in size of the entire foot, with a diminution of the neuropodial setigerous areas in vertical extent, and a decrease in number of the postsetal processes, until the neuropodium bears but 3 or 4, and the notopodium visually a larger bifid one.
Posteriorly the neuropodial setigerous area suffers in extent by a reduction from the posterior and dorsal borders, the postsetal lobe gradually 30 shrinks from the ventral margin, from which a few of its }:)apillse become detached and appear quite isolated on the body walls of the posterior somites of this region and the following transitional region; but such papillae are few and small, and appear only on the lateral portions of somites XVI to XXI or some of these; the dorsal margin of the notopodial postsetal lobe, with its papillae, elongates until it appears as a main stem bearing the remaining papillae on its lateral side.
The 17th and ISth ]:)arapodia are transiticjnal but resemble those of the posterior region more closely; they are, however, less dorsal and usually exhibit a few papillae just ventrad of the parapodia.
The 19th is cjuite typical of the posterior region, directed dorsad from the upper part of the sides of the somite, neuropodium narrow but prominent and erect, with a small leaf-like ovate presetal process having a strong basal constriction, a small conical recurved postsetal process, and, below the constriction, a minute conical neuropodial cirrus, apparently derived from the dorsalmost postsetal papilla; notopodium broader and much more conspicuous, consisting of a setigerous tubercle and a greatly enlarged, pointed, ovate-lanceolate, postsetal process nearly equalling the gill in length, with a constricted somewhat flattened base, and an asymmetrical wing to the })lade-like extension of its lateral margin.
Changes in the parapodia toward the posterior end consist in slight alterations in proportion of parts ; the entire foot becomes more elongated and narrow^ the notopodial postsetal lobe even larger and more leaf-like, assuming the form of the branchiae, except that its base is always constricted, and the neuropodium more reduced in size.
Branchiae of nearly full size begin abruptly on the 5th setigerous somite and continue as far as the material I'eaches toward the posterior end; strictly dorsal, separated by ^ the width of the back; anteriorly broadly, then narrowly Ungulate, pointed, broadly attached, with a central axis containing 2 blood vessels connected by numerous transverse loops arranged in doubly pinnate fashion; branchiae of a pair united with each other and with the corresponding notopodia by delicate transverse integumental folds.
Setae all nrore or less tapering and acutely pointed.
Neuropodials arranged in a dense phalanx, very numerous, rather stout, of two kinds, with transitional forms; those of the anterior ranks shorter, densely fibrillated, olive colored, strongly curved in a more or less sinuous manner, the edge corresponding to the i)rinciiml convexity distinctly serrated with delicate transverse ridges partly encircling the shaft; those of the posterior ranks much longer, more slender, less strongly curved, the exposed part lighter in color and spirally canaliculated around a slender fibrous core whichusuall}' appears to be somewhat eccentric.
Notopodial seta?
in a dense spreading tuft, longer than neuropodials especially toward the dorsal margin of the Inuidles, but similar in form to the second kind, the spiral canal of smaller calibre, and corresponding to an external spiral raised line, \\hich latter alone persists toward the end.
SetSB of posterior region few in number (only about 6 or 8 in the neuropodium), similar in both rami, very long, slender, straight and stiff, longitudinally striated, the terminal half with a deUcate marginal serrature which appears to be due to a series of about f collars sHghtly overlapping, and on one side separated from the shaft by a distinct space, thus foreshadowing the canaliculated form of seta.
A few short delicate sette with bifid tips, the two divisions of which are fringed on their opposed faces with fine hairs, also occur in the neuropodium.
Anteriorly the neuropodial acicula are inconspicuous, but on the 13th to 16th parapodia inclusive they largely replace the ordinary setse and become very much enlarged with subterminal thickenings, pointed ends, and a deep brown color; they project as a row of 5-7 short spines, except the dorsalmost one, which in most cases has its entire spindleshaped terminal half exposed.
In the posterior region there are 3 neuropodial and one notopodial acicula, slender, acute, with the tip sculptured for a short distance, exactly as in the setae.
Suruga Bay, 3,709, 173-260 fms.
; 3,724, 20 fms.
; North Japan, 3,768, 25 fms.
; 3,771, 61 fms.
CIRRATULIDJE.
Cirratulus gibbosus sp.
nov. (PL XXVI, fig.
72.1 Form of preserved specimens stout anteriorly, flat below, strongly arched above; slender, pointed, and much depressed posteriorly.
The type and largest specimen has 105 somites, is 32 mm.
long, and 6.5 mm.
wide at XXX, the widest part.
Prostomium a short and broad lip about 3 times as wide as long, with a transverse row of 4 to 6 conspicuous, reddish-brown eyes on each side of a median interval of about ^ the width of the prostomium.
Mouth small.
Peristomium a prominent, swollen, gibbous ring, as long as the prostomium and elevated above the level, both of this and the succeeding somites.
Next follows a neck-like region of 6 very short somites without sette or branchiae.
The succeeding few somites widen abruptly and these and all others are iiniannulate.
Anus minute, slightly dorsal.
The branchise begin as a tuft of 3 or 4 small ones on each side of VIII just above the parapodia; on IX a large tuft of upward of 15 arises from a transverse area which extends from the parapodia nearly to the middle line, while each of the succeeding somites back as far as the beginning of the posterior i bears a single pair which arises close to the posterior margin about midw^ay between the parapodia and the dorsal mid-line, except anteriorly where the place of origin is lower and more irregular.
Posteriorly the size of the branchiae varies ; small and large ones alternate in a very irregular way.
The parapodia consist of small, well-separated neuropodial and notopodial tubercles which begin with the setae on VIII.
For about the first 12 or 13 somites only capillary setae are present in the notopodial tubercles, beyond that they are mixed with blunt spines, while all of the neuropodial tubercles contain both spines and capillary setae.
The number of both is always small, about 5 capillary in anterior notopodia, usually 2 of each in anterior neuropodia, 1 of each in posterior notopodia, and 1 capillary and 2 spines in posterior neuropodia.
Capillary setae little elongated, but few of them exceeding the distance between the two setigerous tubercles, pale greenish, slightly obliquely striated and fringed on one margin, slender, tapering.
Spines simple, slightly sigmoid, greenish yellow, translucent and unstriated ; one of the notopodials usually somewhat enlarged.
Sagami Bay, 3,703, 31 fms.
Chaetozone spinosa sp.
nov. (PI.
XXVI, figs.
73, 74.)
The type, a complete specimen of 112 somites, is 65 mm.
long and 5 mm.
in breadth at the end of the anterior -J.
The head is very distinctly separated from the body by a deep furrow behind the peristomium, broadly top-shaped as seen from above, bluntly pointed and about as broad as long.
Prostomium nipple-shaped, separated from the peristomium by a furrow dorsally and laterally, but on the ventral side reaching back to mouth as a narrow pointed upper lip, behind which is a pair of palp-Hke lobes bounding the mouth at the sides.
Peristomium much enlarged, considerably wider than the next somite and fully twice as long above as below; smooth, regularly rounded, with a faint transverse constriction above and laterally.
No eyes and no visible sensory pits.
Mouth ventral, with an anchor-shaped anterior extension between the palp-like lobes, bounded posteriorly by a smooth under hp.
Body somewhat depressed anteriorl}^, more or less quadrate posteriorly, tapering gradually from end of anterior ^ both ways ; both dorsal and ventral surfaces smooth, the former depressed between the dorsal ends of the parapodia, by which it is sharply bounded, and than which it is narrower, the latter wider, not depressed and passing gradually at the sides into the parapodia.
Somites rather long, uniannulate, and, A\ith the exception of the first, very distinct and sharply n^arked by deep furrows ; the first united broadly at the sides and by a narrow median dorsal tract to the peristomium, posteriorly rather indistinctly separated from the succeeding somite; it bears an achsetous parapodium; last 7 or 8 somites becoming rapidly smaller and the last 3 apparently achaetous.
Pygidium prominent, expanded, somewhat funnelshaped, and looking obUquely upward; anus in its centre.
Parapodia low but distinct, transverse lateral ridges equal to about i of body circumference; anteriorly they are wrinkled and entirely undivided, and pass without distinct boundaries into the ventral surface, but sharply hmited dorsally where they rise above the level of the smooth area; farther back the dorsal delimitation becomes less and less distinct and the parapodium becomes somewhat differentiated into dorsal and ventral portions, which assume more divergeat and prominent positions on the dorsal and ventral quadrants as the height of the body decreases.
No brancliise are in situ, but a few very long slender and much coiled filaments in the bottle probably belong to this w^orm, while very distinct scars clearly indicate their chsposition.
Except about the last 10, each and every somite bears a pair of scars; anteriorly they are very conspicuous, and the first, which is between the dorsal end of the 1st parapodium and the prostomimn and probably belongs to the latter, is much larger than the others.
For about the next 17 somites the scars are at the extreme posterior margin of the somites and exactly on the level of the dorsal ends of the parapodia, but farther back, as the latter become less distinctly limited, the scars assume a progressively lower and then more anterior position, until in the posterior half of the body they are just behind the lowermost setae of the dorsal division, or nearly at the middle of the parapodium.
The posterior scars become smaller but remain quite evident to the last.
The setse present a striking contrast to those of C. ahranchiata owing to the substitution in large part, for the dehcate capillary setse of that species, of stiff, brittle, spinous setse which stand out in conspicuous w^horls at the posterior end.
In all parapodia the setae are arranged in a single vertical rank of two groups, although anteriorly the interval between is so small that from the exterior they appear to be continuous.
The notopodial group is the larger, and both consist of a fan-shaped groups of two kinds of setae intermixed, except in the last 20 or so somites where only one kind occurs.
There are coarse, stiff bristles arranged at regular intervals, 8-10 in the dorsal, 6-8 in the ventral bundles, olive-green, densely striated and granulated internally, except toward the tip, curved, tapering rapidly to the attenuated outer }, which is colorless and fringed along one margin with overlapping hairs or plates, ^>r^^ slender hair-hke setae are scattered among the coarse ones, and are 2 or 3 times as long as they, nearly colorless, with internal striae having a slight spiral turn, continuously tapering, slightly enlarged at base of exposed portion, and provided, except near the base, with very delicate half-round scales which are rather distant, usually alternate on the two sides and toward the tip become reduced to minute cilia-like processes.
Posteriorly the coarse setie become much stouter, lose their delicate tips and form very prominent, slightly curved, blunt-pointed spines, while the capillary ones become smaller, and eventually disappear.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
Type only.
Chsetozone (?)
abranchiata (Hansen).
Under the name of Cirratulus abranchiatus Hansen described this species firom much smaller specimens in which he found no trace of branchiae.
Otherwise his specimens closely resemble those collected by the "Albatross," which are referred to Hansen's species on the supposition that the types were imperfect.
As this opinion may be erroneous a description is added.
Form short and very stout and thick in the contracted specimens, tapering about equally to the two ends which are similarly bluntly pointed ; somewhat depressed with dorsal and ventral surfaces about equally convex and the parapodia forming a somewhat thickened marginal ridge.
The type has 127 somites and is 38 mm.
long by 8 mm.
wide.
The other specimen is larger.
Prostomium obtusely rounded, somewhat upturned, less than twice as broad as long ; no eyes ; mouth rather slit-like with lateral lips.
Peristomium a simple ring not especially enlarged, resembling the next 2 somites which are much shorter than the prostomium but more than twice the length of the succeeding somites.
First 3 somites achaetous but not especially marked off from the succeeding ones, the increase in width being regular, though rapid; remaining somites short and uniannulate, the last few indistinct.
Anus minute, dorsal, above a small tubercle-like pygidium.
Parapodia represented by small, simple neuropodial and notopodial tubercles united by a slight transverse ridge.
But very few of the branchiae remain and the scars are so obscure that the arrangement at the anterior end cannot be determined with certainty ; for the greater part of the anterior f of the body a pair springs from each somite just above the notopodial tubercles but toward the end of the branchial region the arrangement becomes somewhat irregular, the branchise usually occurring at intervals of 2 or 3 somites -without change in position.
The notopodial and neuropodial tubercles each bears a tuft of 15-20 very soft elongated slender capillary setse of a pale greenish color and homogeneous vitreous structure; many of them exhibit an indistinct flattened region of greater or less extent which appears more of the nature of an accidental crushing than a normal structure.
These setae are exceedingly fine and long, very nearly equalling ^ the diameter even of the much contracted body, and appear to the naked eye as conspicuous tufts of very fine whitish hairs.
At the posterior end they are somewhat shorter but not enlarged or otherwise different.
Compared with the capillary setae of C. spinosa those of this species are less than f the diameter and fully h longer, much softer and under an equal magnification lack altogether the surface markings of that species.
Suruga Bay, 3,726, 26 fms.
; Sendai Bay, 3,767, 14-18 fms.
TEREBELLID^.
AmpMtrite bifurcata sp.
nov. (PI.
XX VI.
fig.
78.)
The type is 70 mm.
long and 7.8 mm.
in maximum diameter, and consists of 59 somites.
Prostomium a long prominent somewhat horse-shoe-shaped lip without complicating folds, but slightly rolled up and bent back against the bases of the tentacles, behind which there is a low transverse ridge.
No eyes.
Tentacles long, longitudinally grooved, in a continuous row of about 22.
Peristomium a short simple ring, with a slightly free ventral margin which covers the special lower lip.
and no dorsal papillae or complicating structures.
Mouth large, with a wide lower Hp besides the peristomium.
The body, as usual in this genus, is somewhat enlarged anteriorly, more slender posteriorly, and throughout its length strongly arched above and flat or concave below.
Segments not very distinctly indicated and, except for a few biannulate anterior ones, only obscurely annulated.
Somites II, III, and IV ^^•ith their anterior margins more or less freely produced at the sides and the latter 2 partly coalesced \'entrally ; no dorsal papillae.
Ventral plates 10, on somites V to XIV, the first 9 narrow parallelograms, the last broadly eiUptical and somewhat separated from the others.
Anus large, terminal, its margin faintly wrinkled.
Branchise 3 pairs, on II, III, and IV, much branched, the number of divisions about equal on all, but somewhat shorter posteriorly.
They have very nearly the form of the brancliise of A .
johnstoni i\Igrn., and consist of a more or less bent and twisted main stem from which the filaments arise at intervals and divide dichotomously once, twice, or, rarely, even 3 times, or a few remain simple; the basal branches are long and slender, but the length gradually decreases until the apical ones are very short.
On the thoracic segments the parapodia are represented by rather broad ridges, the setigerous tubercle being merely a more prominent projection at its dorsal end slightly caudad of the line of the uncini.
The second uncigerous torus is the longest, but the decrease in size is very slight to the last thoracic segment and is accompanied bj^ a slight ventral shifting.
The abdominal parapodia are rather large, fleshy and strongly bent, and bear a striking resemblance to the so-called false feet of a lepidopterous caterpillar, but posteriorly become more slender and sloping, and finally diminished in size; all are situated on the ventro-lateral angles of the body.
Capillary setae occur on IV to XX inclusive, uncini from V to the pre-anal somite inclusive.
The former have a narrow blade, nowhere exceeding ^ the diameter of the shaft, the blade fringed for about ^ its length, and a delicate smooth tip.
The uncini are arranged in interlocking double rows of about 170 (XX) on the thoracic somites from XI to XX; on all others in a simple series directed forward; on each parapodium of somite XXX there are 80.
Their bases are short with the internal margin strongly convex, the anterior end rounded, the posterior pointed, and a prominent subtostral process; the rostrum long, very acute, and strongly hooked, the sinus narrow, vertex much elevated with a prominent crest of at least five transverse rows of spines, of which the first contains 5 or 6 large ones and the last 8 to 10 small ones.
The abdominal uncini are much smaller, with relatively shorter bases, the neck narrower and the crest higher, with more numerous rows of spines.
The uncini are nearly colorless, the capillary setae glistening yellow.
North of Sendai Bay, 3,768, 25 fms., type and one other specimen with portions of a thick mud tube.
Amphitrite cirrata Miiller.
North Japan, 3,771, 61 fms., numerous specimens of small size.
Pista cristata (MuUer) Mgrn.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
; North Japan, 3,771.
61 fms.
The branchise exliibit the usual asymmetry.
The papillae above the setigerous processes are on the posterior end of VI and VII, not on VII and ^TII, as they are said to be in European specimens.
Scionella gen. nov. Sides of the first 4 somites bearing prominent wings; a single pair of branchiae arising from a transverse dorsal fold ; setae begin on IV.
Scionella japonica sp.
nov. (PI.
XXVI, figs.
79, 80.)
The type, which consists of 49 somites, a few of the posterior ones having been lost, measures 70 mm.
long and 5.5 mm.
in greatest diameter.
Rather slender, and only very indistinctly divided into thoracic and abdominal regions.
Prostomium a rather thick, prominent, trefoil-shaped fold, which projects stiffly out above and at the sides of the mouth, its margin somewhat rolled outward, a dorsal ridge beliind the tentacles.
No visible eyes.
Tentacles at least 15 on each side, rather large, grooved longitudinally but in these specimens much contracted, broad and flat.
Peristomium distinct all around, produced ventraUy into a free margin, within which the rather large quadrate lower lip is \dsible, and wliich ends laterally in a pair of wing-hke lateral lobes ; dorsally very short, appearing as a mere ridge behind the tentacular ridge and bearing a dorsal pre-branchial tubercle on each side.
The 2d, 3d and 4th somites have no ventral folds but bear still more prominent wing-like lateral lobes, which rise successively to a higher level and overlap from behind.
Those of somite IV are united across the dorsum by a high transverse fold wliich slopes upward and forward above III and bears the gills on its free edge.
The next 10 somites are well marked, triannulate dorsaUy and with distinct ventral plates which undergo no change in form except that the last has roughly the form of an equilateral triangle.
Somewhat large and swollen post branchial tubercles occur above the parapodia on aU somites of this region as far as XIV.
The whole region is somewhat depressed, smooth, and convex above, flattened below, with distinct longitudinal grooves above and below the parapodia.
The next 10 or 12 somites are large and their boundaries indistinct, while the remaining ones are sharply defined, shorter, and distinctly subdivided into annuli.
Throughout the greater part of the abdominal region the dorsum is arched and the venter flat, with a neural groove, but near the caudal end the body is more depressed.
The single pair of branchiae, which arise as indicated above from the 4th somite, are large and conspicuous and divided into numerous filaments, wdiich are so crowded that they appear to arise together from a common point, but which really spring in a unilateral pinnate fashion from a spirally wound stem.
The latter makes about 3 turns, but owing to the closeness of the filaments, the bases of which are in actual contact, the number is somewhat uncertain.
In line with the branchicT somites II and III both bear dorsal tubercles, which are especially prominent on III, on which, in both specimens, a second smaller tubercle occurs at the base of the larger one ; these are probably reduced gills, and, were it not for the exact correspondence of the two specimens, might be supposed to be regenerating.
On somites VI, VII and VIII short but prominent processes are present between the setigerous and uncigerous tori, just behind the setae line.
A small sense-organ may be found in a corresponding position in relation to most of the posterior parapodia.
Setse begin on IV as a small tuft high up at the foot of the dorsal fold.
On all remaining somites the parapodia are ventro-lateral, but as the uncigerous ridges are much longer on the anterior than the posterior thoracic somites, the slender setae are at first more elevated in position, and gradually sink as the uncigerous tori diminish in extent.
The abdominal parapodia have the base contracted and the dorsal angle somewhat produced.
Slender setae are found on 17 somites, from IV to XX inclusive, are rather few in number, especially on IV, and are always arranged in a short compact vertical row.
The shafts are pale yellow, fibrous, rather long, more or less strongly curved in a sigmoid fashion toward the end, with a mucronate tip, below which each side is provided for a short distance with a rather broad, delicately striated wing with entire margin terminated rather abruptly at its distal end.
Different setae differ greatly in their curvature and the extent of the wings, some being nearly straight with almost symmetrical wings, others almost angulated with the greatest width of the wings alternating.
Uncini are found in all somites except the first four.
In the thoracic region they face alternately backward and forward, and interlock in a double row, are nearly colorless, with short somewhat triangular bases, a short neck, narrow sinus, strongly hooked, stout, acute rostrum and an apical crest of 5 transverse rows of spines, the lowermost consisting of about 4, the others much more numerous, up to 10 or 12.
In the abdominal region the uncini have the number of apical spines greater and all face forward in a single much-crowded row, which on XXV contains 65, while a thoracic torus (XVIII) contains 160.
A decided purplish tint remains anteriorly, otherwise the color is all gone.
North Japan, 3,775, 57 fms., type only; Suruga Bay, 3,378, 167 fms.
Polymnia nesidensis (DeL Ch.)
Marenz.
var.
japonica nov.
The Japanese examples differ constantly from the European as described by V. Marenzeller, Saint Joseph and others in the longer stalks and fewer branches of the gills and in the less elevated heads of the uncini in which the rostrmn and the contiguous margin of the base are parallel.
Sagami Bay, 3,704, 94 fms.
; Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms.
; Sendai Bay, 3,768, 25 fms., type.
Loimia arborea sp.
nov. (PL XXVII, tigs.
81, 82.)
The type of this species is 120 mm.
long and nearly 10 mm.
in diameter in the thoracic region; it consists of 74 somites.
Form robust, with the anterior or thoracic region of 19 somites contributing nearly ^ of the entire length.
Prostomium very broad, prominent, almost surrounding the mouth, except for the space occupied by the small tubercle-hke lower lip, thrown into 3 deep vertical folds, of which the median is much higher than the symmetrical laterals.
Tentacles very few in number (many perhaps detached, though the scars are not visible), small, broad and flattened, the larger ones almost foliaceous in the contracted sta4:e, marked at regular intervals by 4 or 5 transverse bands.
No eyes visible.
Prostomium with a prominent free anterior border ventrally and laterally, ending above in a pair of conspicuous rounded lobes, just internal to which, on the dorsal surface, is a pair of smooth rounded eminences similar to those which occur on succeeding somites.
Somites II and III are only obscurely distinct ventrally, but quite so, though short, dorsally; 11 has a free anterior border, much like the peristomium, and still more prominent dorso-lateral lobes, which are, perhaps, contributed partly by III.
Succeeding somites, both of the thoracic and abdominal regions, are well separated, and more or less distinctly annulated.
Well defined ventral plates occur on somites V to XI, occupying the entire distance between the uncigerous tori, but becoming rapidly smaller as the tori extend and shift to a more ventral position; the last one is divided by a cross furrow, the others are entire; on XII and XIII the plates are continued by an indistinct, much wrinkled and subdivided glandular area, while anteriorly both IV and III are glandularly thickened on the ventral surface.
On the first 10 or 11 somites a smooth rounded glandular (?)
elevation occurs on each side just dorsad and mediad of the notopodial tubercle; on the anterior postbranchial somites these tubercles run together into a low longitudinal ridge.
Anus terminal, large.
There are 3 pairs of branchiae on II, III and I\^, the first somewhat the largest, and the third slightly the smallest, all beautifully arborescent, with about 6 main branches from a central stem, and numerous and fine subdivisions with a somewhat spiral arrangement, resulting in a rather acute conical form, which in life must be very beautiful and conspicuous.
The third somite bears a dorsal setigerous tubercle only on its dorsolateral angles; the next 16 have dorsal setigerous tubercles and ventral uncigerous tori.
The latter are at first high up, but gradually assume a more ventral position, until the last 9 are almost entirely on the ventral surface, and the last 7 or 8 are separated by a median interspace not exceeding their own transverse extent, which increases from before caudad.
Slender setse in a dense tuft, arranged more or less in the form of an arc or horseshoe open ventrally or anteriorly.
They are of two kinds: simple colorless capillary setse, not especially slender, and glistening straw-colored lance-shaped setae, with strongly fibrillated shaft, and the end broadly margined on one side, narrowly on the other, both flanges reaching nearly to the tapering pointed tip, and marked with oblique fibrillse, which sometimes wear into a slight fringe, especially on the broader margin.
On somites IV to XIX the uncini are arranged in 2 rows, opposite and facing each other, when retracted, in a groove ; on the abdominal segments they form a single short row facing the head on the extreme end of the uncigerous process.
Their nmiiber is very great in the posterior thoracic segments, the posterior row on XIX containing 260 and the anterior row evidently a considerably greater number.
As in other species of the genus the uncini are broad, flat pectinate plates, the thoracic ones very constantly bearing 5 long sharp curved processes, with a rudimentary apical 6th, and a minute tooth between the first spine and the anterior muscular process of the base ; the abdominal uncini have the 6th process usually well developed and the muscular processes more pronounced.
Suruga Bay, 3,723, 13-16 fms., type only.
Triohobranobus bibr.nchUtas .p.
nov. (PI.
XXVII, llgs.
S3-85.)
The largest specimen has a length of 16 mm.
for 29 somites the caudal end bting Lent; the thoracic diameter is 2 mm.
; almost double "tlfl..stricted to the region above the month, bilobate cor.
sisting of a pair of rounded tentacidiferous cushions incompletely srLd posteriorly.
No eyes.
Tentacles -O' n"nierc»s foniimg a ihick tangled mass above the mouth; they are of ^l°l""'^^-^'^^_ ones which are bv far the most numerous, arising from the entire mar g oUhe cushions, and much larger ones, the ends of which are often broad and flat, whose origin is confined to the anterior and median region of the cushion border.
Peristomium simple, short above, much enlarged below to fo.m a vefy Mgh thick lip the exact limits of which are uncertain ow.ng to hTpartial protri'ion of the b™cal chamber.
Connected .^^^^^^^^ peristomium and probably peristomial in origin is a P-'jf ™J[^^^ thin, delicately nerved, wing-like lobes, which arise o";ach ^'^^ from ben ath the prostomium and extend prominently '^ ««^ ^^ ^.
riorly to a distance considerably exceeding the leng h of t^e Pro ° mium.
The remaining somites are regular and ^'^^'^-'■;^l^^^l^^2^ out collars or lateral lobes to any of the anterior ones ; "S^J^ of " annuli of which the anterior is usually the largest and bears the r.Th thoracic region, comprising the first 20 ^"n.^'l^^^^ and quite terete, the abdominal suddenly contracted to i the diameter of he tirade, and flattened or even longitudinaUy grooved on he ventral surface Two pairs of simple unbranched gills arise from the doi m of somites II and III; they are slender and taperiijg and the, length considerablv exceeds the greatest diameter of the body ihe ttelci set g o,,;tori are elevated flattened tubercles, the uncigerous tori vei^'imU and low; abdominal uncigerous tori also very small but quite conspicuously elevated.
^ =omites Slender seta; begin on VI and continue to XX, or foi 15 somites.
Thiyfo ma short vertical rank of 14 to 20, usually m pairs of 1 large I^Il Ian seta.
Set* almost colorless, slightly curved, tapering, Tot er^h entire tip and narrowly doubly winged -;«>-.
Uncm also begin on VI, and occur on all the foUowing somites They are Twavs Lnged in a single row, with their points directed forwa d Id on the tho acic somiL, toward the dorsum; the series is slight y :utd:ftheslenderse.on.^^^^^^^^^^ rrxrn:mbe'its:i:;::^ to 23 on XX, the last thoracic somite.
The thoracic micini spread in a fan-shaped figure; they are colorless or pale brown, long, slender, with curved somewhat striated stem, increasing slightly in diameter to the surface of the body, then suddenly contracting to a narrow neck beyond which even more abruptly expanding into the remarkably birdlike head, with a blunt beak and a crest of 5 or 6 finely divided transverse rows of very numerous teeth, together having a nearly spherical form as viewed from above.
The abdominal uncini numljer about 35 in the anterior somites, and are arranged in a marginal row about the torus, to the center of which the slender ligaments converge.
They are nearly colorless, with short, broad, nearly triangular bases, upon which the only slightly expanded head is sessile; rostrum prominent and above it 2 or sometimes 3 transverse rows of numerous spines.
Station not given on label.
There is considerable conflict between the several published accounts of T. glacial is i\Igrn., but the present species differs ilecidedly from those described from typical Eur(jpean localities in the entire absence of eyes, the wider cephalic wings, constancy of 2 pairs of gills, the form of the uncini and greater number of slender setse.
Terebellides stroemi Sars.
The typical variety of this nearly cosmopolitan species occurs in Sendai Bay, 3,767, 14 to 18 fms., and probably in Suruga Bay, 3,724, 20 fms.
Var.
japonicanov.
All of the specimens of Terebellides t^ken in Sagami Bay differ from the typical variety in having a much smaller number of prostomial tentacles and wider margins to the slender setse.
They have a length up to 70 mm.
The proportions of the gill lobes vary considerably; and in one example from 3,704, the posterior lobes are undeveloped.
Sagami Bay, 3.695, 175-190 fms., types; 3,698, 153 fms.
; 3,704, 94 fms.
; 3,738, 167 fms.
AMPHARETID^.
Amphicteis japonica Mcintosh.
Two fine specimens taken at station 3,771 are much larger than those originally described by Mcintosh from south of Yedo; they measure 45 mm.
in length.
The branchise are perfect and are round as in A. gunneri, not flattened as doubtfully stated by Mcintosh; the uncini are also somewhat narrower than is figured for the types, but other specimens conform exactly to the originals in this respect.
The tube is tough and parchment-like, and covered with a thick coating of fine silt.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.
; Sendai Bay and northward, 3,767, 14-18 fms.
; 3,771, 61 fnis.
AMPHICTENID^E.
Cistenides hyperborea Mgrn.
Off Kamchatka this species was found in very great numbers on & soft muddy i)ottom in shallow waters, and a single small example in Sendai Bay.
The paleoli vary somewhat in number and length, but are almost invariably 12 or 13 on each side.
In the specimens from station 3.777 they are so thickly incrusted with a brownish deposit as to appear club-shaped.
Sendai Bay, 3,767, 14-18 fms., one small example; off Kamchatka, 3,776, 3,777, 3,780, 12-13 fms.
MALDANID^.
Nicomache (?)
inornata sp.
nov. (PI.
XXVII, figs.
86, 87, 88.)
Head and 14 anterior setigerous somites only known, these having a length of 55 mm.
and a diameter of 3 mm.
Owing to the absence of the anal funnel the generic reference is doubtful, the form of the setae having chiefly led to the selection of Nicomache rather than Lumbriclymene or a related genus.
Prostomium and peristomium completely coalesced into a rather slender head, which is twice as long as thick and truncated at a rather acute angle; prostomial lobe or palpode pointed, curved dorsad, continuous with both median ridge and lateral margins of cejjhalic plate; cephalic plate indistinct, its posterior half somewhat gibbous, the anterior concave, passing with rounded margins into the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the head, no produced marginal folds; median ridge about \ length of cephalic plate, rather low and broad, passing anteriorly into palpode, posteriorly indistinctly into gibbous portion of head; sensory grooves well marked on each side of ridge and external to these again triangular depressed areas bounded by the lateral margins of cephalic plate.
Peristomial region of head slightly compressed ; mouth rather large, ventral, bounded posteriorly by a prominent pouting, but rather narrow, lip.
First 4 setigerous somites short, cylindrical, decreasing slightly in length, each with an anterior annular ridge just in front of the seta line; succeeding segments longer and more slender, but never much elongated, boundaries very obscure after VIII; somites VI to IX with anterior glandular rings but no distinct collars ; all somites except the first 5 more or less marked with lateral vertical grooves and folds.
Head and anterior region of body very smooth.
Tori indistinct and laterad on anterior somites, thick swollen and more ventral after IX, Capillary setae of 2 kinds, both few in number, in the dorsal bundles; those found on all setigerous somites are relatively large, fibrillated, tapering, the tips acute and sometimes curved, with a short distinct flange on one side.
Fringed capillary setse are found in the middle somites ; colorless, very slender, with elongated tips, with rather widely separated, short hairs closely appressed to, and usually arranged in pairs on both sides of the shaft of the seta.
Farther back these are replaced by setae which are doubly winged at the base of the exposed portion, bcA^ond which are extremely long faintly fringed capillary tips.
Crochets yellow, with curved tapering fibrous stems, which are not shouldered and only slightly enlarged at the surface of the body; exposed portion long and slender, the head not much enlarged, but provided w^th a very long, sharp beak, the tip of which is slightly recvirved; accessory teeth 4 to 6, the first large and typically standing sharply apart from the beak, the others also slender and distinct, except the 1 or 2 smallest, which are more obscure and fibrous ; guard greatly developed, in 2 lateral halves, each formed of about 23 strong hairs joined together above the teeth by a membrane-like band beyond which the hairs are much finer and may constitute a delicate fibrillated web, arching over the basal half (not the tip) of the principal hook and meeting the opposite half of the guard above ; no distinct subrostral process.
On somite V the crochets are only bent, not hooked, with one large and one smaller blunt vitreous process, and a group of small fibrous ones; guard, if perfect in the example studied, consisting of a few gently curved subrostral hairs reaching only as far as the point of the principal spine.
Acicula bright ^^ellow, one each on ventral side of tori of II, III and IV, stout, tapering to a blunt point, and fibrous.
Tubes fragile, of coarse, dark-colored sand grains and bits of shell.
Suruga Bay, 3,713, 65 fms.
; 3,725, 13 fms., type.
Clymene mirabilonga sp.
nov. (PL XXVII, figs.
89-93.)
Head uniannulate, the prostomium and peristomium completely united, short, somewhat compressed, vertical diameter equal to greatest length on ventral side; mouth ventral, large, bounded posteriorly and laterally by a rugous crescentric fold, anteriorly by the wrinkled base of the rather narrowly triangular, pointed, prostomial lobe or palpode; cephalic plate very broad, nearly orbicular when the limbate margin is spread, broadly oval when viewed from above with margin in normal position, the margin divided by a pair of clefts into anterior and posterior lobes, of which the latter is f as long as the former; posterior lobe suberect, faintly divided by median and lateral emarginations into 4 slightly marked sub-lobes; anterior lobes also suberect, much higher than 'posterior, with smooth, rounded, entire margins anteriorly meeting the palpode, from which they are separated by a distinct sulcus; median ridge nearly f length of cephalic plate, very narrow, high and prominent, udth a sharp compressed summit, of equal width throughout, ending anteriorly in a short palpode about 3 times its width but stiU narrow; sense organs bounding median ridge rather broad shallow depressions, included with the ridge in a narrow lyreshaped area occupying the middle i of the cephalic plate exclusive of the Umbate margin, with its base dorso-caudad, while the arms fade out anteriorly to the sides of the palpode.
Head and anterior somites divided into numerous small raised areas which under a lens have an appearance and lastre hke the human skin.
First 4 setigerous somites short, diameter and length about equal, and length shghtly decreasing to the 4th.
first very broadly attached to the peristomium; from the 5th setigerous somite (VI) the length increases to X, though IX, which is separated from X only by a very obscure furrow, is somewhat shorter than VIII; no specially developed coUar though each anterior somite is extended into a low fold which somewhat embraces its predecessor, and which is strongly glandular on VII, VIII and IX; last 3 setigerous somites (intervening ones unknown) decreasing in length, cyhndrical, the last in this specimen much shorter than thick, but probably it and the following achstous somites are considerably contracted; 2 preanal and anal somites very short, slightly telescoped, with posterior margin prominent, and on the anal somite forming a sharp annular shoulder from the center of which the anal funnel arises.
Anal funnel with a short stalk, having a diameter of about i the body of the anal somite, but spreading in a low coroUa form to the diameter of the latter, in length equalling the anal and one preanal somite; its margin regularly denticulate with 43 regular, pointed, triangular teeth longer and narrower than those of Axiothea campanulata, with an occasional one bifid, and none in the neural line, which is very distinct to the edge of the funnel; anus central, surromided by minute papillse and radiating ridges, but not elevated on a large central papilla.
The relation of the funnel to the anal somite in the type specimen is probably due largely to contraction.
First eight setigerous tori on anterior end of somites, the others posterior; anterior tori very low and obscure, becoming swollen and conspicuous by X; on last 3 setigerous somites prominent and reaching weU ventrad, where they are separated by a median distance of ab'out i their length, the interspace being occupied by a glandular area; 31 tori and glandular areas remain on the 2 preanal somites, and also slightly indicated on the anal but bear no setae.
Peristomium and last 3 somites without setae.
First 3 setigerous somites with a dorsal tuft of slender set£e and a single ventral aciculum, but no crochets; other setigerous somites with a small dorsal fascicle of slender setse and a ventral series of crochets, the number of which increases for several somites caudad.
The resemblance between the setae of this species and Nicomache capensis is noteworthy.
Slender setae of 3 forms, the first, which occurs on all setigerous somites, is pale greenish-yellow, with a core of parallel fibres, long, tapering, with a distinct wing on one margin and a much narrower one on the other, both leaving a long very fine tip free.
The second form is confined to an undetermined number of anterior somites as far as X; colorless, exceedingly slender and very delicately doubly fringed.
The third form is found only posteriorly, the anterior limit being imdetermined ; colorless, with a long, slender shaft of nearly uniform diameter, the terminal part of which bears rather broad chafflike bearded processes, the exact arrangement of which cannot be determined but appears to be singly spiral toward the tip, paired toward the base, the whole closely resembling the fruiting head of certain grasses.
Anterior acicula simple, stout, pointed, slightly curved fibrous spines of a yellow color.
Crochets yellow, with slender, tapering, curved, very fibrous stems, strongly shouldered at surface of body, then constricted to a narrow brittle neck, and again expanded terminally into a coarse broad head ; terminal part unusually prominent and consequently frequently broken off; principal hook prominent, acute, rather slender and, except at the base, non-fibrillated ; supported and surmounted by 4-6 spines, of which the first is large and vitreous, the others much smaller and, like the expanded portion of the head, strongly fibrillated; beard greatly developed, consisting of a transverse row of a small number of tapering sickle-shaped hairs which arise from a stout transverse basal plate, supported on a slight subrostral shoulder, and cur\'e high over the apex of the principal hook to end in fine curled tips above its base.
The anterior crochets differ only in the position of the beard, which arises much closer to the rostrum than in the more posterior ones, and in their somewhat smaller size.
The head and tail ends of the type specimens were foimd several miles apart.
Suruga Bay, 3,714, 60 fms., head; 3,725, 13 fms., caudal end.
Maldane sarsi Mgrn.
This species has ah-eady been recorded by Mcintosh from south of Yedo and by Wirin from the Vega collections in Bering Sea.
The "Albatross" examples are of small size and are referred somewhat doubtfully to this species as they differ from the published figm-es and descriptions in several respects.
The palpode is much broader with very numerous eyes, the cephalic plate inclined to the longitudinal axis at a very acute angle, the median ridge posteriorly depressed and obscure, the anal plate broader and each dorsal angle of the ventral lobe produced into a distinct spine.
There are also some peculiarities of the setse.
The anterior end, and especially the head, is generally closely spotted with reddish-brown.
Sagami Bay, 3,695, 175-190 fms.
; 3,798, 153 fms.
Maldane coronata sp.
nov. (PI.
XX VII, figs, w, 95, 96.)
This is a large species, the type of which measures 130 mm.
long by 5 mm.
in greatest diameter in a contracted state, while fragments of other specimens from the same locality are more than twice as large, so that a length of 300 or 400 mm.
in life is not improbable.
Head acute, cephalic plate narrowly ovate, produced anteriorly into a pointed thin process or palpode, hmbate margin prominent, di\-ided on each side by a lateral cleft which passes into a deep slit on the side of the peristomium ; the posterior half high, erect, its margin coarsely serrate with 15-22 teeth, which are large anteriorly, and progressively diminish in size toward the dorsal mid-hne; anterior half lower, more spreading, passing into the anterior palpode without sharp demarkation, its margin bearing on each side from 4 to 7 (commonly 5) stiff processes, decreasing in size from behind forward, and the largest about 4the width of head, often asymmetrical and sometimes bifurcated; median ridge moderate, about i cephahc plate, its posterior end about opposite the most anterior marginal process, anteriorly ending in much broader palpode, rather low and wide but prominent and sharply defined by deep, narrow, sensory grooves, Peristomium short, biannulated by the deep lateral grooves above alluded to, which cut off a small incomplete anterior ring.
All following preanal somites (19 in number) are setigerous; II to V short and biannulate, the anterior annulus the larger; VI and VII transitional, the others uniannulate and elongated, the last few diminishing somewhat in length, the furrows indistinct.
Anus dorsal, external to funnel, between this and a prominent integumental fold which covers it.
Anal funnel very large, divided by a pair of obUque lateral clefts into dorsal and ventral lobes ; ventral lobe the smaller but constituting most of the funnel proper, its margin variable in exact shape, but always somewhat uneven and irregular, crenulated or slightly toothed ; dorsal lobe much more prominent and consisting chiefly of a large, flaring platform-like structure each side of which has 3 blunt angular marginal prominences, bearing as many slender filamentous processes nearly as long as the anal funnel.
One very large specimen, of which only the posterior end is preserved, differs in having the ventral lobe very finely denticulated, the dorsal less flaring, with an even margin and bearing 11 filaments much shorter than usual.
It may prove to l^e representative of a distinct species as other specimens of nearly equal size are quite typical in these respects.
On the first 4 setigerous segments the setse are borne on thin winglike vertically elongated ridges, on the remainder on thick swollen tori, which are especially prominent on VII.
\'III and IX and on XVII, XVIII and XIX; on V, VI and VII the tori are united by transverse ventral thickenings, but elsewhere are quite distinct and entirely lateral.
The tori are anterior on the first 9, posterior on the remaining setigerous somites.
Somite II bears only capillary setse, III, IV and V a small ventral series of about 6 or 7 crochets, in addition to the slender setse, the other somites long ventral series of crochets, varying from 37 to 41 in each group on specimens of average size, and a small dorsal tuft of slender setse.
Capillary setae have a hyaline cortex and a slightly yellowish fibrous core, the more superficial fibres of which are very accurately parallel, tip very acute but tapers mostly in the middle ^ of its exposed part; wingless on the first setigerous somite, but farther back the cortex is produced into a narrow flange on the dorsal side.
Crochets stout, stems long, curved, tapering, with a distinct shoulder at the surface of the body and beyond it a narrow region which gradually broadens into the beaked head.
Those of the posterior regions have a strong transparent hook, the base of which is concealed in a hood-like covering of fibrillated spines which rise into a crest of four principal teeth; guard poorly developed, of only 8 or 10 curved hairs united for a considerable part of their length by an intervening delicate web; subrostral process small.
Anterior crochets on II to V much less strongly hooked ; those in the middle of the series with a large terminal process bent nearly at right angles to the shaft, about 4 smaller fibrous processes, and a beard; the dorsalmost similar but only slightly bent.
Color uniform pale grayish-browai ; tori pinkish-orange.
An abundant species represented by numerous examples from the following stations: Sagami Bay, 3,695, 175-190 fms.
; 3,698, 153 fms.
; 3,704, 94 fms.
; North Japan, 3,771, 62 fms.
; 3,775, 57 fms., type.
Fraxilla challengeriae Mcintosh?
A small fragment from the middle of the body bears setse and crochets* exactly like those of this species, but the reference is quite uncertain.
The originals were dredged off the coast of Portugal.
Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms.
Axiothea campanulata sp.
nov. (PI.
XXVII, figs.
97, 98, 99.)
A single complete example represents this fine species.
The length is 185 mm., the greatest diameter 6 mm., the number of somites 23, of which nineteen are setigerous.
Prostomium and peristomium completely coalesced to form the head, which is truncate at an angle of about 45°, and is twice as long below as above.
Cephalic plate broad oval in outhne; the free margin nearly equally developed all around except where interrupted anteriorly by the free end of the median ridge, but more erect posteriorly, its margin smooth and entire, except for a shallow notch and reentering angle on each side about ^ of the distance from the anterior end and opposite the posterior end of median ridge, anterior to which the margin rises slightly to form the anterior free lobes ; median ridge pronounced, but short, reaching from the anterior end for i length of plate and ending in front in a small rounded, not expanded, lobe, which occupies the opening in the limbate margin at that point, bounded laterally by deep, narrow longitudinal chinks (nuchal sense-organs), from which a broader transverse groove passes to the lateral margin on each side, meeting it just in front of the notch.
Mouth directed ventrad, surrounded by a regularly ribbed ring or wreath which is incomplete only anteriorly, the interval being occupied by the wrinkled base of the nearly triangular prostomial lobe (palpode), the rounded apex of which curves upward to join the anterior end of the median cephalic ridge.
First 7 setigerous somites cylindrical, short, diameter and length about equal, no especially developed collar on any, but the anterior margin of each somewhat prolonged as a fold enveloping the preceding somite, especially on the ventral side; anterior fold of somites V to VIII glandularly thickened.
The next apparent somite is elongated and bears setse at both anterior and posterior ends, whereas the preceding somites bear them anteriorly and the succeeding posteriorly only, and therefore, although there is no indication of a furrow, is considered to represent somites IX and X, forming a transition region between the 2 ends of the worm.
Succeeding segments become narrower to the anal, but increase in length to XV, beyond which they gradually decrease; their form is somewhat club-shaped, being narrow anteriorly, increasing to the region of the glandular tori near the posterior end, and again abruptly diminishing; in contraction the posterior end of each probably invaginable, forming low collars in reverse of those at anterior end.
Somites VIII to XVIII marked laterally by a series of vertical furrows and folds, which become longer caudad; dorsum and venter smooth; anal and preanal somites marked by circular grooves and ridges extending all around.
Neural line distinct for entire length, ending on margin of anal funnel between two teeth.
Anal funnel very large, nearly eciualling widest part of body, regularly bell-glass-shaped, somewhat longer than wide, margin completely and.
very regularly encircled by 31 short, triangular teeth of equal length, two of them being double, and the mid-ventral line being an interval between two teeth.
Anus prominent, on a radially ridged papilla in the centre of the funnel, the cavity of which is rather shallow.
Setae are present on 19 somites, the peristomium, anal and 2 preanal somites being achsetous, though the latter retain the glandular tori.
Setigerous tori are all situated on the sides of the ventral half of the body; those for capillary setae short, rather prominent non-glandular, double folds, from the cleft between which the setae appear ; uncigerous tori narrow, raised ridges on first 3 setigerous somites, elsewhere glandular elevations cleft at the apex, becoming long, thick and prominent posteriorly, and those of each pair on VI to X and XX and XXI united by glandular rings.
Capillary setae only are found on II.
and both capillary setae and uncini on all other setigerous somites.
The largest number of the former occurs on II, decreases to IV, while V to XIX bear only a small but prominent dorsal fasciculus.
Uncini are numerous from their first appearance, and increase in number from about 20 on III to 48 on somites of the posterior half, the tori having meanwhile increased to 3 times the length of those on III and extended so far ventrad as to be separated by a median distance of less than ^ their length.
Capillary setse pale greenish-yellow, the slender exposed portions colorless with a vitreous cortex and a fibrous centre of remarkably regidar arrangement, very fine, straight, tapering, acutely pointed, and delicately winged on the dorsal side on all somites.
Uncini yellow, somewhat smaller on the anterior and ventral portions of the posterior tori, those in the latter position differing somewhat in shape.
Typical uncini with rather slender curved internally fibrous stems, without a distinct shoulder but rather gradually thickened on one side, external to the body contracted in diameter and bent dorsad, then broadly expanded into the terminal head, which is provided with one very large scarcely fibrous hook supported by usually 4 successively smaller fibrous ones, which do not form a cap-like structure; guard or beard moderately developed, consisting of about 20 stiff shghtly curved hairs, somewhat divergent from a prominent subrostral process and enclosing the tip of the principal hooked process.
The type only known from Suruga Bay, 3,739, 55-65 fms.
CHLORH^MID^.
Stylaroides borealis (Hansen).
A single specimen which conforms closely to the description of this North Atlantic species, but is fully three times the length of the original specimens taken off the coast of Norway, was dredged at station 3,775, North Japan, in 57 fms.
STERNASPID^.
Sternaspis scutata (Ranzani) Otto.
The only difference which can be detected between these and European specimens is that the gill plates of the former are shghtly more prolonged anteriorly.
Suruga Bay and \ncinity, 3,709, 173-260 fms.
; 3,739, 55-65 fms.
Explanation of Plates XXIII, XXIV,, XXY, XXVI, XXVII.
Unless indicated othcru-ise~ all seta; figured are jrom somite X or that immediate neighborhood.
Plate XXIII, Fig.
1.
— Eumidea caca, terminal portion of a neuropodial seta.
X 480. la, the articulation of the same, X 820.
Fig.
2.
— Polynoa semienna, middle neuropodial.
X 332.
Fig 3.
— ^The same, dorsal neuropodial.
X 332.
Fig.
4.
— Scalesetosus formosus, dorsal neuropodial.
X 480.
Fig.
5.
— Scalesetosus formosus, ventral neuropodial, outline only.
X 480.
Fig.
6.
— Scalesetosus formosus, notopodial.
X 480.
Fig.
7.
— Lepidonotus branchiferus, middle neuropodial.
X 130.
Fig.
8.
— Lepidonotus branchiferus, guard of a neuropodial seta in process of being shed.
X 130.
Fig.
9.
— Lepidonotus branchiferus, portion from the middle of a notopodial.
X 586.
Fig.
10.
— Lepidonotus chitoniformis , middle neuropodial.
X 130.
Fig.
11.
— Lepidonotus chitoniformis, portion of a notopodial.
X 586.
Fig.
12.
— Lepidonotus cceloris, middle neuropodial.
X 332.
Fig.
13.
— Lepidonotus vexillarius, dorsal notopodial.
X 480.
Fig.
14.
— Lepidonotus vexillarius, portion of middle notopodial.
X 480.
Fig.
15.
— Lepidonotus vexillarius, ventral neuropodial.
X 332.
Fig.
16.
— Hylosynda carinata, middle neuropodial.
X 332.
Fig.
17.
— Hylosynda carinata, notopodial.
X 332.
Fig.
18.
— Hylosynda magnacornuta, middle neuropodial.
X 110.
Plate XXIV, Fig.
19.
— Lcetmatonice pellucida, notopodial.
X 74.
Fig.
20.
— Lcetmatonice pellucida, neuropodial.
X 74.
Fig.
21.
— Restio cenus, stout neuropodial.
X 332.
Fig.
22.
— Restio cenus, slender neuropodial.
X 332.
Fig.
23.
— Restio anus, slender seta from anterior rank.
X 332.
Fig.
24.
— Restio cenus, capillary seta.
X 332.
All of the setae figured in figs.
21-24 are from somite XV.
Fig.
25.
— Nereis pusilla, middle notopodial.
X 480.
Fig.
26.
— Nereis pusilla, ventral neuropodial.
X 480.
Fig.
27.
— Nereis pusilla, stout neuropodial from a posterior foot.
X 480.
Fig.
28.
— A'ereis paucidentata, typical notopodial.
X 480.
Fig.
29.
— Nereis paxicidentata, ventral neuropodial.
X 480.
Fig.
30.
— Nereis paucidentata, stout posterior neuropodial.
X 480.
Fig.
31.
— Aricia fimbriata, one of the stouter anterior neuropodials.
X 332.
Fig.
32.
— Aricia fimbriata, a slender anterior neuropodial.
X 332.
32a.
A portion of the same.
X 586.
Fig.
33.
— Aricia fivibriata, portion of a canaliculated posterior neuropodial represented as seen in optical section.
X 820.
Fig.
34.
— Aricia fimbriata, portion of a capillary posterior notopodial.
X 820.
Fig.
35.
— Aricia fimbriata, an incomplete bifurcated notopodial.
X 586.
Plate XXV, Fig.
36.
— Eunice northioidea, compoimd seta from the middle~of bundle.
X 480.
Fig.
37.
— Eunice northioidea, pectinate seta.
X 480.
Fig.
38.
— Eunice northioidea, uncinus from posterior foot.
X 332.
Fig.
39.
— ^wmce^iangMi/zc/a, compound seta from middle of bundle.
X 480.
Fig.
40.
— Eunice quinquifida, pectinate seta.
X 480.
Fig.
41.
— Eunice quinquifida, uncinus from LX.
X 332.
Fig.
42.
— Eunice mucronata, compound seta from X. X 480.
Fig.
43.
— Eunice mucronata, compound seta from LVI.
X 480.
Fig.
44.
— Eunice mucronata, pectinate seta.
X 480.
Fig.
45.
— Eunice mucronata, uncinus from XLI.
X 332.
Fig.
46.
— Eunice gracilis, compound seta.
X 480.
Fig.
47.
— Eunice gracilis, pectinate seta from XLI.
X 480.
Fig.
A8.— Eunice gracilis, uncinus from posterior foot.
X 332.
Fig.
49.
— Eunice medicina, compound seta.
X 480.
Fig.
50.
— Eunice medicina, pectinate seta.
X 480.
Fig.
51.
— Eunice medicina, uncinus from LV.
X 332.
Fig.
52.— Para northia brevicornuia, compound seta from 3d foot.
X 8'^0 Fig.
53.— Paranorthia brevicornuia, compound seta from 4th foot X 480 l<jg.
54.— Paranorthia brevicornuia, simple marginal seta from 10th foot.
Fig.
55 .—Paranorthia brevicornuia, pectinate seta from 13th foot.
X 480 l<ig.
56.
— Paranorthia brevicornuia, uncinus from 11th foot.
X 480.
Fig.
57.— Northia geophiliformis, part of appendix of compound seta, from Iv.
X 480.
Fig.
58.— Northia geophiliformis, pectinate seta from XXXV.
X 480 Fig, 59.
— Northia geophiliformis, uncinus from XL.
X 480.
Fig.
m.—Onuphis cirrobranchiata, margined seta from dorsal ramus of XII.
Fig.
61 .
— Onuphis cirrobranchiata, uncinus from Y. x 332, Fig.
62.
— Onuphis cirrobranchiata, uncinus from XXVII.
X 332.
Fig.
63.
— Onuphis cirrobranchiata, funnel-shaped seta from XII.
X 480.
Plate XXVI, Fig.
64.
— Laranda robusla, seta from dorsal group of XX.
X 130 Fig.
65.— Laranda robusla, aciculum and seta from ventral group of a po«terior somite.
X 130. o tf ■ Fig.
66.— Notocirrus zonala, seta from dorsal group of a middle somite.
Fig.
67.
— Notocirrus zonala, one from ventral group of same.
X 332 Fig.
68.—Ninoe palmata, marginal seta from ventral bundle of XII.
X 332 Fig.
69.—Ninoe palmata, similar one from dorsal bundle of XC.
X 480.
Fig.
70.— Ninoe palmata, margined and hooded uncinus from ventral bundle of XII.
X 480.
Fig.
71.
— Ninoe palmata, uncinus from XC.
X 480.
Fig.
72 —Cirratulus gibbosus, a notopodial group of one blunt spine and one delicate fringed seta from LX.
X 130. a, portion of the latter.
X 586 fig.
73 —Chcetozone spinosa, from XXV.
X 130. a and b, enlarged portions of the two seta; at the points indicated.
X 586 l*ig.
74.
— Cha:tozone spinosa, spine from XCVI.
X 130.
Fig.
75.
— Goniada foliacea, a compound neuropodial of average length.
X 586.
Fig.
76.
— Goniada foliacea, a notopodial from L. X 586.
Fig.
77.
— Goniada dislorta, a compound neuropodial seta.
X 332.
Fig.
78.
— Arnphitrite bifurcata, an uncinus.
X 332.
Fig.
79.
—Scionella japonica, an average margined seta from the middle of the bundle.
X 332.
Fig.
80.
— Scionella japonica, an uncinus.
X 332.
Plate XXVII, Fig.
81.
— ioiwim arfcorea, a margined seta from XV X 110 a portion of the same.
X 586. '
' Fig.
82.— Loimia arborea, uncinus from XV.
X 332.
Fig.
83.
— Trichobranchus bibranchiatus , slender seta.
X 332.
Fig.
84.
— Trichobranchus bibranchiatus, uncinus.
X 820.
Fig.
85.
— Trichobranchus bibranchiatus, uncinus from XXII.
X 820.
Fig.
86.
— Nicomache(2) inornata, portion of capillary seta froni XV x' 480 Fig.
87, — NicomacheC!)
inornata, end of crochet from XV.
X 332.
Fig.
88.
— Nicomache{1) inornata, end of crochet from V. X 332.
Fig.
89.
— Clymene mirabilonga, simple capillar3\ x 74.'
Fig.
90.
Chjmene mirabilonga, pinnately fringed capillary.
X 480.
Fig.
91.
— Clymene mirahilonga, spirally fringed capillary.
X 110 Fig.
92.
— Clymene mirahilonga, entire crochet from a posterior thoracic segment.
X 32.
Fig.
93.
— Clymene mirahilonga, terminal portion of the same.
X332.
Fig.
94.
— Maldane coronata, capillary seta from TIT.
X 110.
Fig.
95.
— Maldane coronata, end of dorsal crochet from III.
X 332.
Fig.
96.
— Maldane coronata, entire crochet from X. X 332.
Fig.
97.
— AxiotJiea campanulaia, capillary seta from II.
X HO, Fig.
98.
— Axiothea campanulata, entire crochet.
X 74.
Fig.
99.
— AxiotJiea campanulata, exposed portion of the same.
X 332.
SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES ON AN ANT.
BY ADELE M. FIELDE.
In a preceding paper/ I described experiments showing that when pupae and the antworkers hatching therefrom are maintained in segregation, such ants refuse to affiliate with workers of their colony who are forty days or more older than themselves; and that ant-workers thus reared in segregation will not accept a queen much older than their mother.
I believe it to be proven that the cause of the hostility of one colony to those of another colony of the same species and variety^ is a difference of contact-odor coincident with difference of age in the individuals composing the colony.
The queen-mother alone determining the inherent primitive odor of each of her offspring.
I recently undertook the herein recorded experiments with a view to ascertaining whether any of the rays of Ught to which the ants are exposed in seeking food so affects their metaboUsm as to produce that difference of odor which is the cause of hostility between colonies of different age.
On August 21, 1902, I put five queens and 200 workers, all of one colony and without young, into each of five new Fielde nests .^ All ^ "Notes on an Ant," Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of PhiUtdelphia, December, 1902.
^ The ants used for the experiments described in that paper and in the present WTiting were Stenamma fulvum piceum. '
"Portable Ant Nests," Biological Bidle.tin.
Vol.
2, No.
2, 1900.
An improvement suggested by Dr. W. M. Wheeler in the making of these nests may be read about in a note in his paper, "Ethnological Observations on an American Ant," 1903.
He uses Diamond Cement for joining the glass portions of the nests.
Should that cement not be easily obtainable.
Major's cement is also better than glue.
I used for one year a nest stuck together by Major's cement, and then immersed the nest in water for two Aveeks without loosening the glass parts.
Dr. Wheeler also suggests the use of mica instead of glass in covering the hallways or passages between compartments.
I have found celluloid film also better than the glass, and it is tougher than the mica.
It is better to darken the nest by glueing black cloth over the outside walls rather than b}' painting them, the cloth being more effective and more durable than the paint.
I also find that if a thin pane of orange-colored glass be used for the roofing, instead of the transparent glass, the ants are little disturbed by the lifting of the opaque outside cover, and that their behavior may then be studied with assurance that it is the same as when they were in darkness.
The ideal ant-nests would, I think, be secured were the patterns of the Fielde nests reproduced in white porcelain.
Such nests, topped with Turkish towelling, which can easily be renewed when soiled, and with a roofing of orange-colored the ants were freshly captured from a single wild nest.
My first artificial nest was roofed with transparent glass, and is hereinafter referred to as the white nest.
The second nest was roofed with double panes of indigo glass, transmitting no hght-rays lower in the spectrmn than blue.
The third nest was roofed with double panes of blue and purple glass, transmitting no hght-rays lower than blue, and showing under the spectroscope a very broad band of \dolet.
As the ants in the second and third nests behaved nearly ahke, I shall refer to these two nests as the violet nests.
The fourth nest was roofed with double panes of orange glass, transmitting only red and green rays, and this nest is referred to as the orange nest.
The fifth, the dark nest, had an opaque roofing.
All the nests were kept on a table in the diffused dayhght that entered a large window, underneath a gas-jet that burned several hours at night.
The temperature and the humidity were nearly ahke for all the nests, and the same food was supphed to all on the same days.
There was never any communication between the nests.
From the beginning, the ants in the white nest and in the violet nests behaved ahke in their efforts to seek shelter from the hght-rays entering their respective abodes.
At first they packed themselves into the hallways, coming out only at night or in very cloudy days for food.
The ultra violet rays entering the white and the violet nests, were those that drove the ants to shelter.
These rays are invisible to the hmiian eye, and are not shown by the spectroscope; but Forel's ants,^ Formica sangvinea and Formica siihsericea, withdrew from the isolated ultraviolet rays as from full dayhght.
For the logic of my experiments the isolation of the ultra-violet rays was not required.
There is no doubt that the ants instinctively withdrew from the ultra-violet rays, and that they are indifferent to all the other hght-rays.
My experiments show that they become fearless of, but not insensible to, these ultraviolet rays, the time required therefor being in direct ratio to the intensity of the illumination from the ultra-violet rays.
It was not until December, 1902, that my ants gave sign of having ceased to fear these rays when in charge of the young.
In the night and in cloudy days they brought the inert young out to occupy the sponges in the center of the compartments.
Toward the end of January, 1903, the ants in the violet nests occupied the middle areas of their glass, so tinted as to exclude light-rays above blue in the spectrum, would conduce to the serenity of the ants and facilitate the study of their ways.
Cleanliness, the right degree of humidity, pure air and a varied diet presented in minute quantities, enables the ants to live long and prosper in these nests.
■* "Ueber die Empfindlichkeit der Ameisen fiir Ultraviolet t und Rontgen'sche Stralen," Prof. A. Forel und Prof. H. Dufour, Zoologischcn Jahrbiichern, 1902. rooms as serenely as did the ants in the dark nests, with whom they were frequently compared.
In the white nest the ants did not bring their young out upon the sponges, in bright dayhght, until the end of February.
In the orange nest, on the contrary, the ants behaved from the beginning as did those in the dark nest, never huddhng in the haUways nor seeking the shade of the walls.
They often clustered in the most highly illuminated portions of the area.
All the actions of the ants indicated that they were insensible to the red and green rays.^ As the nests were new and nearly ahke in structure, temperature and humidity, there seems to have been no reason other than that which lay in the difference in light-rays, for the difference in the behavior of the ants in the different nests, those in the white and the violet nests behaving nearly alike, and those in the orange and the dark nests behaving wholly alike.
The point to be here noted is that the ants in the white and the violet nests learned to be unafraid of the rays that at first drove them into corners.
After ten months' exposure to these rays they were still sensitive to them, preferred shelter from them, and would soon move to a room of which I changed the roofing to such as covered either the orange or the dark nest; but they appeared to have learned that those light-rays were innocuous.
Not only, then, can these ants become acquainted with human beings, lose fear of them and cease to sting them; not only can they become acquainted with ants of alien famihes and thereupon cease to quarrel with them, but they can become unafraid of certain light-rays and adjust their behavior to conditions to which they were instinctively averse.
They are susceptible to education through the eye as well as through the sense of smell.^ ^Formica subsericea, Cremastogaster Uneolata, Lasius umbratus and Lasius latipes behave in the same manner toward these rays.
« Something that appears purposeful in the behavior of mv ants is their carrying ot morsels of hickory-nut or other dry substance and dotting with it the surtace ot a lump of Turkish paste or other viscid sweet that they like to eat They then stand with clean feet on the stepping stones that they have laid and lap the ,,yj9°^\ Oftentimes the sticky sweet is the oniv one among several kinds ot food in their food-room that is flecked by these bits of nut.
It may be that ants enaged in carrying morsels of food come upon something more luscious and drop the former in order to enjoy the latter.
They are apt to give special attention to any new dainty.
i a ^ Dr. Wheeler, on p. 18 of the paper referred to in note 3, says of his Leptothorax that isolation brought out an instinct which is common to all ants known to me except Pobjgerus .
.
the instinct that impels them to collect dead sister *" ^5 w^ particles of earth, etc., and to deposit them on liquid food in the manger.
When cleaning up their dwellings, as my ants do, carrying particles to the rubbish-pile, as is their wont, diversion of their atteiition wiU often cause them as it will cause monkeys, to drop the thing they carrv.
The same or ^u u ^^J' "'""^ P'^^5 "P the dropped particle, if it be not bevond recovery 1 hey hold more tenaciously to the young that they have in charge.
In all five of the nests I watched the rearing of progeny from the deposit of the eggs through the larval and pupal stages to callows.
In the violet nests the young were as numerous and as advanced in development at any one period of time as were the young in the orange or the dark nest.
It is certain that eggs, larvse and pupse may pass their whole career normally and may develop into healthy callows, spending all the dayhght hours under rays from which the ant-nurses instinctively withdraw them.
The base of the instinct must therefore lie in something other than injury done to the young by these rays.
In the latter part of June, 1903, the ants having been ten months in these nests, I introduced into each of the five nests one cpieen and five adult workers, all marked, from each of the other four nests.
The ants were introduced one by one, and were watched for some minutes thereafter until the manner of the reception of each was ascertained.
In no case was there sign of animosity toward an ant that had lived ten months in daylight, in light-rays of another color, or in the dark.
After twent^'-four hours sjDent with their ancient comrades, all the marked ants were alive and were taking part in the care of the young.
Later, I distributed all the ants in the five nests equally in two other nests and they continued in peaceful association together.
These ants had not lost their aversion to aliens, for, when I introduced such, they were soon torn in pieces.
Ten months' residence in the light of day, or under light-rays of different wave-length, does not cause a difference of contact-odors in the adult ants J Twenty callows reared in the violet nests from the deposit of the egg upward,^ were segregated under violet rays in a Petri cell, for two weeks, that they might separately estabhsh their nest-odor, and become engrossed in the care of young.
Twenty callows reared in the orange nest from the deposit of the egg upward were likewise segregated under orange glass for two weeks.
On the 12th of June I transferred, one by one, about half the ants in each cell to the other cell.
All were received amicably and were permitted to share in the care of the j'oung.
The ' The color of the ants was not noticably altered by exposure to any of these rays.
All the callows acquired color like those in the dark nest.
Although the fact has no bearing upon the present series of experiments, as all the callows in these nests were presumably the issue of queens, I here note one of the records of the last few months.
Four workers, of whom one was major, two minor, one minim, were hatched from pupse segregated in one of my Petri cells, in August, 1902.
They lived always in segregation, never saw a king, and on March 8, 1903, had laid nineteen eggs.
Nine days later several of the eggs had hatched and two of the larvae were well grown.
There was no room for doubt that these eggs were parthogenetic, or that they were laid by a worker about six months old.
young ants, like the adults, failed to discern any difference in contact-odor due to diversity in the light rays encountered."
In order to ascertain whether exposure of the inert young to different light-rays would result in different contact-odors at a later time, I took amber pupse, between April 12 and May 12, from the violet nests, and segregated them in a dark Petri cell, and I hke^ise segregated in another dark cell as many pupse from the orange nest.
From the violet nests I thus secured about twenty callows, all hatched between April 23 and May 14, that had passed the egg, the larval, and most of of the pupal stage exposed during all dayhght hours to the rays at the upper end of the spectrum and without exposure to the red or green rays.
From the orange nest I likewise secured about twenty callows, all hatched between April 17 and May 14, that had been exposed during the same period to the rays at the lower end of the spectrum, without exposure to blue, violet or ultra-violet rays.
No callow had met an ant of other group than the one in which it was hatched.
When the youngest callow was one month old, on June 13, 1903, I introduced several callows, one by one, from each cell into the other cell.
All were amicably received and were straightway permitted to share in the care of the inert young; and when I united all the occupants of the two cells they lived together harmoniously.
The exposure of the eggs, the larvce, or the pupce to unlike light-rays does not produce unlike contact-odors in the ants developing from the exposed eggs, larvoe or pupce.
The results of these experiments shows that the contact-odor of these ants is not affected by the light-rays from which the ant-nurses instinctively withdraw the young; nor is exposure to light a cause of such change in the contact-odor as is coincident with age.
A NEW JAPANESE PLEUROTOMARIA.
BY HEXRY A. PILSBRY.
The Academy has received from Mr. Y. Hirase a specimen of Pleurotomaria from Kashiwajima, province of Tosa, Japan.
The shell represents a new species, which may be thus defined: Pleurotomaria hirasei n. sp.
PI.
XXII, figs.
1, 2.
Shell resembling P. heyrichi in shape and general characters.
The upper surface is copiously streaked with crimson on a white ground, orange-tinted in places; the base being white with a few faint wide, flexuous reddish streaks.
Sculpture above of spiral, regularly beaded cords; 7 above, 5 below the slit fasciole on the whorls of the spire, the beads closely placed, corresponding to close and rather strong plicae, or ripples, which are oblique above, vertical below the slit fasciole; the latter being sculptured with the usual arcuate striae, and traversed by a wide median cord, with, a thread below it.
On the last whorl the beaded cords become more numerous, about 10 above the fasciole.
The base is nearly flat, and has many spiral cords and threads, made crenulate by fine radial, flexuous folds.
The slit is about one-fifth of a whorl long.
The columella is twisted in a strong, convex lobe.
The apical whorls are wanting in the type, and the lip is somewhat broken.
Alt.
72, diam.
81 mm.
The height would be 4 or 5 mm.
greater in a perfect shell, the apical whorls of this one being broken off.
P. heyrichi as figured by von Martens, Dautzenberg, Schmalz and others, has much more \\ddely spaced spiral cords, which are wealdy beaded, in place of the closely beaded and more crowded cords of this species.
