THREE ODD INCIDENTS IN ANTLIFE.
BY ADELE M. FIELDE 1.
A case of hypnotism among ants
I had a small artificial nest containing twelve workers of Cremastogaster lineolata that had spent the first month of their lives in a mixed colony of Lasius latipes Stenamnia fiilvum and their own kind.
They had then been transfeiTed to their present abode where they had lived for eleven months never meeting ants of other species except upon a few rare occasions when I introduced a visitor into their nest.
On August 20 1904 they were happily occupied in care of some promising pupae from their old wild nest when I dropped into their nursery a single Lasnis latipes somewhat larger and probably older than any of their number.
She was a stranger from the wild nest of their quondam associates.
As I dropped the strongsmelling vigorous yellow worker into their nest I glanced at my watch to note the minutes they would spend in slaying the intruder.
When I looked back at the ants I was at once impressed by the curious and sudden change in the positions of all the little black Cremastogasters and by the remarkable rigidity of five of them.
Five were in the foodroom and they do not enter further into this narration  two were on the roofpane of the nursery  and five were motionless under the touches of the Lasius who instead of fleeing or hiding as do ants who are among enemies outnumbering them was traversing two sides of the nursery at a leisurelyrapid pace from the hallway marked H to the corner marked A where there was a little pile of pupse and then on to the B corner where was a similar pile.
She made more than eleven journeys to and fro taking nearly The straight lines indicate the the same track sometimes walking Over sides of the nest the dotted line jj j qj.
two sometimes brushing the the path of the yellow ant the . .
  4. dashes the positions of the five Side of one as she passed sometnnes black ants.
slightly varying her route so as to pass between two on the A B side of the nest.
Whatever her course every ant of the five swayed the abdomen slowly toward her as she passed and swayed it back as soon as she had passed it.
This swaying of the H ....A B abdomen with slight movements of the antennae were the only signs of life given by any of the five ants during fortyfive minutes.
Meantime one of the other residents came down from the roofpane and while the yellow ant was at H with the heads of all the spellbound ones turned away from her this solicitous sister went and touched three of the entranced ones but failing to rouse them she withdrew again beyond the line of the yellow visitor's march.
I was observing the ants through a pane of orangetinted glass which protected them from such liglit as they were aware of and I several times lifted the pane letting the daylight fall full upon them but even this stimulant did not impel any of them to move.
During all this time none of the five ants that were in the foodroom returned through the only ingress therefrom the hallway H and the young ordinarily attended upon without intermission were wholly neglected.
The yellow ant finally stayed awhile in the hallway and within the ensuing five minutes all the three ants between A and B began to walk slowly forward.
I then shoved the other two with the end of a needle and they also moved slowly about.
I did not again look into this nest until the following morning when I found the yellow ant dead and carried to the rubbish pile.
I then introduced another ant of the same colony and of the same appearance but this second ant was no Svengali and only the expected thereupon happened.
Yet another introduced later came in like manner to an immediate and violent death.
2.
A wolf in sheep's clothing
I had in August 1904 a nest of Crcmastogaster lineolaia containing one queen a hundred workers and much young in the egg larval and pupal stages.
These ants had been in my care during all their lifetimes and I know that they had never met Lasins latipes in active life.
In the previous June I had introduced into their nest a halfteaspoonful of the larvae of Lasius latipes for them to use as food and this alien larvae had been taken care of had become pupae and had gradually disappeared.
On August 21 there hatched from what was perhaps the last of these alien pupae a tiny Lasius that the Cremastogasters permitted to live.
Its bright amberyellow body was very conspicuous among its jetblack associates.
During several days the infant Lasius of a different subfamily from its fostersisters shared their labors and passed unnoticed among them and then it was nipped to death.
It is probable that this Lasius having been long among the Cremastogasters had acquired an overlaying of their inlierent odor concealing its own and that it thereby escaped hostile attack until such time as it inherent odor became subject to the critical examination of an associate or of the queen.
Then instinctive raceprejudice impelled the Cremastogasters to eliminate from their community one whose education had already been such as to secure them from injury through her misbehavior.
3.
Can an ant remember acquaintances after lapse of three jcars or more
In August 1904 I had a nest of Camponotus pennsylvanicus  containing some larvoe and fourteen large workers all of whom had hatched in my nests between lIay 1 and May 10 and who were therefore about three months old.
They had spent the first two months of their lives with Stenamma fiilvum ants who were from seven to nine months old and they had not met ants of other species.
They had been segregated about one month when I dropped into their nest two Formica lasiodes of unknown age.
several newly hatched Stenamma fulvum of the C colony two adult Stenamma fulviim of the X colony and two Stenamma fulviim that were more than three years old having been captured as adults and kept three years in one of my artificial nests a section of the C colony.
From the first introduction of these ants to the nest of Camponotus one of the threeyearold Stenammas who was of the same colony as were the early acquaintances of Camponotus went freely and happily among them apparently without fear and without reproach.
She was permitted to stand among or upon the cherished larvce or on the backs of the resident ants.
The affiliation between her and them was as complete as if she had always lived among them.
Her odor may have become familiar to them in the nest of Stenammas where they had spent their early lives.
But if this Stenamma had ever been acquainted with Camponotus it was at a time previous to her residence in my artificial nests and more than three years since she had met any ant of other species than her own.
The remarkable ease and friendliness of her intercourse with these ants among whom she was as a brown pigmy among black bristly giants is a fact requiring explanation and the only explanation offered by known characteristics of ants lies in her recognition of an odor that she had previously encountered and that she recognized the odor after the lapse of more than three years.
All the other ants introduced at the same time as was this Stenamma were killed by the resident Camponotus within a few hours.
The Stenamma continued to live among the Camponotus until I removed her at the end of eight days.
The incidents were observed at the larine Biological Laboratory at Wood's Hob Massachusetts.
THE EEACTIONS OF ANTS TO MATERIAL VIBRATIONS.
BY ADELE M. FIELDE and GEORGE H. PARKER.
While it is well established that some insects react to sound vibrations that reach .them through the air and in this sense may be said to hear many competent authorities such as Huber 1810 Ferris 1850 Forel 1874 1900 and Lubbock 1894 have admitted their inability to bring to light any evidence that ants are thus stimulated.
Even the discovery of the socalled chord otonal organs in ants by Lubbock 1894 and Janet 1894 has not led to positive results so far as the reactions of these animals to material vilDrations are concerned though two American investigators Weld 1899 and Metcalf 1900 have claimed that ants are very sensitive to certain tones.
Because of these somewhat conflicting opinions it seemed to us desirable to reinvestigate this question and for this purpose we carried out experiments on the following species of ants Camponotine ants Camponotus pennsylvanicus Deg.
 workers Formica sanguinea Latr. queens and workers F. fusca L. var.
suhsericea Say queens and workers Lasius umbratus Nyl.
 queens and workers L. latipes Walsh workers.
Myrmicine ants Stenanima fidvum Roger var.
piceum Emery queens and workers Cremastogaster lineolata Say queens and workers.
Poncrine ants Stigmatomma pallipes Haldm.
 workers.
All these ants had lived more than a month in the artificial nests in which they were tested.
They had established their nestodor had their young in charge and were well domesticated in their respective abodes.
These ants were tested for two general classes of material vibrations  first those that reached them through the air surrounding them and secondly those from the solid base upon which the ants rested.
 These investigations were made in the summer of 1903 at the Marine Biological Laboratory Woods Hole Mass.
As sources for air vibrations we used a piano a violin and a Gallon whistle.
The keys of the piano gave us a range from 27 to 4176 vibrations per second.
The Galton whistle had a range from about 10000 to about 60000 vibrations per second and was provided with a movable threaded core whereby any intermediate vibration could be obtained.
The range from the highest note of the piano 4176 to the lowest one of the whistle about 10000 was bridged over b vibrations obtained from the violin.
Thus a series of vibrations from 27 to 60000 per second were available for experimental purposes.
In testing the ants with these vibrations the artificial nests were so arranged that their air was in free communication with the outer air in which the vibrations were produced but this was carried out in such a way that draughts to which ants are very sensitive could not enter the nests.
The nests were placed upon thick paper so as to isolate them from vibrations that might reach them through the table upon which they rested.
The observer then closely watched a quiescent ant under a hand magnifier while a second person at several metres distance produced the vibrations as desired.
As a rule each key of the piano was struck ten times in slow succession.
If the ant under observation seemed to respond it was given a resting period and then retested at the pitch to which it apparently reacted.
The range of the whistle 10000 to 60000 vibrations was divided into sixty intervals and these were treated as the keys of the piano each note being blown ten times while an ant was under observation.
Ants were also watched while the pitch of the whistle was gradually changed by slowly screwing the core either in or out.
A gradual change of pitch was also produced on the violin.
All the species mentioned as tested by us were subjected to this range 27 to 60000 vibrations per second and in no single instance was any unquestionable reaction observed.
Now and then an ant would seem to respond to a given note but in every case repetitions of the experiment gave a negative result.
We therefore conclude that aerial vibrations between 27 and 60000 per second give rise to no observable responses in the ants we worked upon and as these included representatives of three subfamilies of the Formicidffi it is highl probable that a like condition will be found among other ants.
Our results then agree Avith those of Hubcr Ferris Forel and Lubbock but are opposed to what is stated by Weld and by Metcalf.
In one instance we worked upon the same species as Weld namely Cremastogaster lineolata and tested it with a note approximately that used by Weld 4096 vibrations but obtained from the piano and from the violin instead of from a metal bar.
Nevertheless we got no reaction.
Weld does not make clear that his ants were always isolated from all except aerial vibrations nor that their reactions were constant under repeated stimulation.
It seems to us possible that his ants may have reacted at times to vibrations of the solid base upon which they rested and to which as we shall show presently they are very sensitive or their supposed reactions may have been accidental.
Certainly our own experimental evidence gives us not the least reason to suspect that ants are stimulated by sound waves in air.
Having reached this conclusion we next endeavored to ascertain whether ants would respond to vibrations of the solid base upon which they stood.
Wlien a nest containing Stenanima fulvum was held in the air within a centimetre or so of the woodwork of a piano and the C giving 261 vibrations per second was struck no response followed.
When however the nest was allowed to rest on the woodwork and the note was again sounded almost all the ants started forward simultaneously.
Thus a vibration that comes to an ant through the air is not necessarily followed by a reaction though the same vibration when it reaches the ant through a solid may be very stimulating.
All the eight species of ants with which we experimented were thus stimulated though they failed to react to the same vibrations in the air.
The range of the different species was by no means uniform.
All reacted to the 27 vibratioas per second and to higher notes up to a certain pitch characteristic for each species.
Crcmastogastcr reacted at 522 but to no higher note.
The superior limit for Formica fusca var.
suhsericea was 1044 and for Lasius latipes and Stigmatomma 2088.
Stenamma always reacted at 2088 usually at 3915 but failed at 4176.
Camponotus regularly reacted at 3480 but failed at 4176.
Formica sanguinea which invariably responded at 2088 occasionally did so at 4176 a pitch regularly reacted to by Lasius umhratus.
Thus each species seemed to have a characteristic superior limit for stimulating vibrations received through solids.
Ants are not only sensitive to the tones of a piano transmitted through a solid but they are also sensitive to vibrations from other sources similarly transmitted .
This is well seen in the following experiment on Stenavima.
When the edges of two Petri dishes were rubbed against each other in the air the ants did not respond lut when the edge of the dish in which the ants were held was rubbed even lightly by the edge of another dish they reacted with great precision.
These reactions occurred even when the Petri dish containing the ants was floating on water and the edge of the vessel containing the water was rubbed.
Some idea of the delicacy of these reactions may be gained from the fact that ants in a Petri dish resting on a pine tabletop reacted to the scratch of a pin on the table at a distance of ten feet from the dish.
A measure of the stimulus necessary to call forth the most delicate reaction usually a jerking movement of the antennae was obtained in the following way  A small artificial nest was built on the end of a long board clear of knots and after the ants had become accustomed to their nest stimuli were introduced by dropping a shot weighing half a gram on the board at different distances from the nest and from different heights.
It was found that the ants reacted to a blow given to the board 4.3 metres 14 feet from the nest when the shot fell from a height of 15 centimetres 6 inches but that they did not react when it fell through only half that distance.
Ants not only react to material Tibrations received through wood glass water etc. but they will also react to such vibrations when resting on a bit of sponge in an artificial nest or on the soil in which they construct their nests.
Thus ants within their natural earth nests may be stimulated by the vibrations of the material on which they stand though they will not respond to similar vibrations in the air about them.
To ascertain what parts of the body of the ant are concerned in its reaction to the vibrations of nongaseous materials we performed experiments on a number of individuals of Stenamma fulvum piceum that had been deprived of portions of the body.
All the mutilated ants except those lacking heads or abdomens had undergone the necessary surgical operations so long as three or four weeks previous to the experiments and had therefore had time for full recovery from shockeffects.
The irritability of workers deprived of their funicles or of the whole of the antennae was such as to make it necessary to isolate each in order to prevent mutual slaughter though all were of the same colony.
This irritability continued even after they had recovered from shockeffect had become alert and active and had been more than a month without funicles or without both funicles and scapes.
Queens similarly mutilated were scarcely more irritable than when in normal condition and nearly all of the thirty operated upon survived the operation more than two months and laid eggs.
Queens and workers deprived of only one antenna were no more irritable than normal ants and hardly any deaths resulted from this mutilation while not more than twenty per cent of the workers survived the loss of either both funicles or both antennae.
64G Sept. i      1 .
.ii. 
... .
 V' .
.
 V.  Queens and workers deprived of a pair of legs the amputation being made at the coxal joint see figure lived in groups as amicably as do whole ants and there was little loss of life through this operation.
The delicate structure of the leg manifestly renders it a probable communicator of vibration from any solid with which it might be in contact.
There was throughout a direct ratio between the degree of irritabilit produced and the percentage of deaths conseciucnt upon the surgical operations.
The operations were as far as possible carried out aseptically and careful nursing was attempted for all cases.
The mutilated ants wTre tested in Petri dishes first by scratching together in the air the edges of two Petri dishes to ascertain whether the ants were stimulated by air vibrations and next by gently scratching the edge of the dish in which the ants were.
As might be expected no reaction was ever obtained from mutilated ants submitted to air vibrations.
The reaction of the ants to the vibrations of the dish containing them and the states of the ants so far as the operations that they had undergone were concerned are given in the following summary  1 .
Queens from which both f unicles had been removed reacted by slight locomotion usually moving backward or sidewise rarely forward.
2.
Queens from which one antenna had been removed reacted like normal queens by forward backward or sidewise locomotion.
3.
Queens deprived of the whole of both antennae reacted by moving backward or sidewise.
Prothoracic leg of a young Stcnamma fidvum piceum.
X 48.
4.
Workers deprived of both fiuiicles moved forward backward or turned side wise.
5.
Workers deprived of one antenna moved forward or turned sidewise as did the normal workers.
6.
Workers without antennae moved forward or backward or turned side wise.
It is thus evident that the antennae are not essential to the reactions of these ants to vibrations from a solid for the ants invariably reacted irrespective of the conditions of the antennae and the slight differences in the nature of their reactions seem to us insignificant of the function of hearing in parts removed.
This opinion that the antennae are not essential to these reactions is in accord with certain observations on normal ants.
When a normal ant in a Petri dish was resting with its antennae high in air it was olDserved to react vigorously to a slight scraping on the edge of the dish without however bringing the antennas in contact with the dish.
7.
Decapitated queens and workers reacted by movements of the legs without however showing any determinate form of locomotion.
8.
Queens and workers deprived of their abdomens reacted by moving forward or side wise.
9.
Queens deprived of any one pair of legs reacted by moving forward lackward or sidewise.
10.
Workers deprived of an' one pair of legs reacted by moving forward or turning sidewise.
11.
Queens and workers deprived of any two pairs of legs reacted by making ineffectual efforts to walk their direction of locomotion being very irregular.
It is thus evident that the reactions of the ants to the vibrations of the underlying solid arc not dependent upon the antennae head abdomen any pair or two pairs of legs.
It seems to us probable that stimulation is effected by the transfer of the vibration from the underlying solid to the body of the ant without reference to any special senseorgan.
That the various movements of the ants are true reactions and not merely motions transferred mechanicallv from the vibratinobase to the body of the ant as to any small particle capable of vibrating is seen from the fact that the body of a dead ant does not show these movements and further that in a live ant these movements cease after the stimulus has been repeated a few times but begin again after the ant has been allowed a resting period of at least ten minutes.
In none of our experiments was there any evidence of a directive influence exerted by the stimulus on the movements of the ant.
The observations and experiments recorded on the preceding pages lead us to conclude that ants are insensitive to air vibrations such as are audible to us and that they are ver sensitive to the vibration of the solid material upon which they stand be this wood glass sponge or the earth of their nests.
These vibrations apparently affect their whole bodies reaching them through their legs or any other part in contact with the solid base.
It is of course conceivable that if an air vibration were strong enough  i.e. if the sound were loud enough  it might stimulate the body of the ant directly but apparently this is not usually the case for as we have already shown sounds of ordinary intensity which call forth no response from the ants when they reach  these animals through the air are very effective as stimuli when they reach the animal from a solid base.
It therefore seems probable to us that ants in their nests are stimulated not by the sound waves in the air of the nest but by the vibrations of the solid parts of the nest itself.
Hence the effectiveness of a heavy footstep in the neighborhood of an anthill as contrasted with the ineffectiveness of the human voice in causing an active emergence of the ants.
These animals are as it were in the condition of a perfectly deaf person who feels through his feet the vibrations caused by a passing wagon but cannot hear the sound it produces in the air.
This sensitiveness of the ants to the dbrations of the base upon which they rest and their insensitiveness to air vibrations is exactly what would be expected from the requirements of their subterranean life as contrasted with that of aerial insects.
Because of the analogy between the ants and a deaf person we do not wish however to be understood to deny hearing to ants neither do we affirm it.
It has long been recognized by physiologists if not by the scientific public that touch and hearing in the vertebrates are very closely related.
The apparent separateness of these senses in us is due to the fact that the air waves by which our ears are usually stimulated are too slight to affect our organs of touch.
If however we transfer our experiments to water we at once meet with a medium in which as has long been known vibrations can be both heard and felt.
In dealing with a like question among the lower animals it therefore seems to us misleading to attempt to distinguish touch from hearing and we shall be more within the bounds of accuracy if we discuss the question from the standpoint of mechanical stimulation rather than attempt to set up questionable distinctions based upon human sensations.
We therefore prefer to ignore the question of hearing in ants and to restate our conclusion in the form already given that these animals are insensitive to the ordinary vibrations of air but are very sensitive to the vibrations of the solid upon which they stand.
It seems to us probable from our experiments that the material vibrations that stimulate ants reach them in this way rather than through the air.
Janet 1893 1896 p. 19 has described an ingenious method whereby the stridulating of ants can be heard by the human ear and Wheeler 1903 p. 66 has been able to note a faint sound when a large number of stridulating ants are collected in a bottle.
Undoubtedly these stridulations are of ecologic importance to an ant community but it is our belief based upon our experiments that what can be heard by the human car through the air is probably not the vibration that affects the ants but rather that the stridulation produces a vibration of the solid constituents of the nest and that this vibration is the effective one in stimulating the inmates.
Summary.
1.
The ants experimented upon did not react to aerial sound waves from a piano dolin and Galton whistle which collectively gave a range from 27 to 60000 vibrations per second.
2.
They reacted to most vibrations that reached them through the wood glass sponge or nestearth upon which they stood though different species seem to have different superior limits in respect to the rate of the dbrations.
3.
These reactions are not dependent upon the funicles the antennae the head the abdomen any pair or two pairs of legs of the ant but are usually received through the legs and probably affect the body of the ant as a whole.
4.
The stimulation of ants by the vibration of the solid upon which they stand and not by the vibration of the surrounding air accords well with their subterranean life as contrasted with the aerial life of most insects.
5.
It is misleading to ascribe or deny hearing to ants they are very sensitive to the vibration of solids not to those of air their reactions could be as appropriately described as resulting from touch as from hearing.
42 Bibliography.
FoREL A.
1874.
Les fourmis de la Suisse.
Zurich 4 iv  457 pp. 2 pi.
1900.
Experiences et remarques critiques sur les sensations des Insectes.
Deuxieme partie.
Como Svo 76 pp.
HuBER J. P. ISIO.
Recherches sur les moeurs des Fourmis indigenes.
Paris Svo pp.
13  328 2 pi.
Janet C. 1893.
Note sur la production des sons chez les Fourmis et sur les organes qui les produisent.
Annales de la Societe entomologique de France tome 62 pp.
159168.
1894.
Sur les nerfs de I'antenne et les organes chordotonaux chez les Fourmis.
Comptes rendus de VAcademie des Sciences Paris tome 118 pp.
814817.
1896.
Les Fourmis.
Paris Svo 37 pp.
Lubbock J.
1894.
Ants Bees and Wasps.
The International Scientific Series No.
42 revised edition.
New York Svo xix  448 pp. 5 pis.
Metcalf M. M. 1900.
Hearing in Ants.
Saence new series.
Vol.
11 No.
266 p. 194.
Perris E. 1850.
Memoire sur le siege de I'odorat dans les Articules.
Annales des Sciences naturelles Zoologie serie 3 tome 14 pp.
149178.
Weld L. D. 1899.
The Sense of Hearing in Ants.
Science new series Vol.
10 No.
256 pp.
766768.
Wheeler W. M. 1903.
Ethological Observations on an American Ant Leptothorax emersoni Wheeler.
Journcd jiir Psychologie und Neurologic Bd.
2 pp.
3147 6478.
NEW CHILOPODS.
BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN Lithobius centurio sp.
nov Dorsum dark brown the principal scuta darkened along posterior border and along middle head a little lighter darkened over middle caudally antennae light brown legs mostly yellowish the posterior pairs becoming darker brown posterior portion of venter darkest all the scuta excepting the most anterior with a paler central circular area.
Body much narrowed anteriorly.
Posterior angles of the 9th 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced.
Antennae of moderate length articles 1922 the distal ones excepting the ultimate reduced.
Ocelli 22 arranged in 5 series 2 5 6 6 1  2.
Presternal teeth 22.
Coxse of last two pairs of legs armed dorsally and also dorsolaterally at the furrow which is more dorsal in position than usual.
Anal legs with claw unarmed spines 1 3 2 1.
Claw of penult legs armed with a single spine spines 1 3 3 1.
Spines of first legs 2 3 2.
Coxal pores small round 3 3 3 3.
In the male the femur of the anal legs is abruptly produced into a lobe at its distal end above and the tibiae is produced into a larger lobe at its proximal end above adjacent to the femoral lobe the lobe being truncate above and somewhat bent distally.
The penult legs have the tibia produced into a moderate lobe at its distal end.
Length 14 mm.
 width of 10th dorsal plate 2.6 mm.
Locality.
 Las Vegas New Mexico Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell.
One male.
Lithobius cookerelli sp.
nov. Brown to chestnut head darkest some dorsal scuta in one specimen with the posterior margin lined with dark and with a dark stripe along middle antennae concolorous with head or but little paler legs light brown.
Angles of none of the dorsal plates produced.
Antennae moderately long articles 2829 in length long and moderate.
Ocelli 15 arranged in 4 series 5 1  4 3 2 Presternal teeth 22 obtuse those of each side close together and toward middle.
Three posterior pairs of coxae armed laterally with a stout spine unarmed beneath.
Anal legs with claw unarmed spines 1 3 3 1.
Penult legs with claw armed with two spines spines 1 3 3 21 3 3 3.
Spines of first legs 2 3 2.
Coxal pores small round 4 5 5 5.
Claw of female gonopods entire acute short basal spines 22 the inner shortest.
Length 22 mm.
 width of 10th plate 26 mm.
Locality. New Mexico Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell.
Lithobius fungiferopes sp.
nov.
Dark purplebrown head darkest almost black antennae rufous distally legs light purplebrown proximally yellow distally.
Posterior angles of 9th 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced.
Antennae short  articles 20 mostly short.
Presternal teeth 22.
Posterior coxae unarmed.
Anal legs with claw armed with a spine spines 1 1 0 0
Penult legs with claw armed with one spine spines 1 1 0 0.
Spines of first legs 0 0 0
Claw of female gonopods wide short tripartite basal spines stout acute subequal.
Anal and penult legs of male strongly swollen none of the joints of anal legs produced into lobes but the fifth joint of the penult legs bearing at its distal end above a peculiar pilose process which is rounded distally and constricted at base fungiform.
Length 56 mm.
Locality.
 Ithaca New York.
Not uncommon under fallen leaves in woods.
Lithobius euthus sp.
nov. Brown the first and the last dorsal scuta darker reddish  head reddish brown antennae brown to reddish brown paler distally.
Angles of 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced in adults or sometimes nearly straight this character being evidently variable in this form.
Antennae short 5.4 mm.
 articles 2528 moderate.
Ocelli 8 in 3 series.
Presternal teeth 22.
Posterior coxae unarmed either ventrally or laterally.
Anal legs with claw armed wath a single spine  spines 1 3 2 0.
Penult legs with claw armed with a single spine spines 1 3 3 2.
Spines of first legs 1 2 11 1 1.
Coxal pores small round 45 4 4 4.
Claw of female gonopods entire long and acute basal spines conically acuminate the inner shorter.
Length 15 mm.
 width 2 mm.
Locality.
 Austin Texas Prof. J. H. Comstock.
Lithobius navigans sp.
nov. Reddish to purplish brown the middle plates lightest head yellow antennse dark brown basally becoming yellow distally presternum and legs yellow venter yellowish the first and the last plates darker.
None of the dorsal plates with posterior angles produced.
Antennse short 2 mm.
 articles 28 or 29 short.
OcelH 12 in 3 series 5 1  5 1.
Presternal teeth 22 small.
Posterior coxse unarmed beneath or laterally.
Anal legs wdth claw armed with a single spine spines 1 3 3 1.
Spines of penult legs 1 3 3 1.
Spines of first legs 0 1 1.
Coxal pores 2 3 3 23 4 4 4 small round.
Claw of female gonopods tripartite lobes acute the middle longest basal spines 22 short equal a little clavatcly thickened upward and then conically pointed.
Length 7 mm.
c
7.5 mm.
 
.
Locality.
 Bermudas Prof. J. H. Comstock.
Several specimens d and 9 .
It is related to the European species lapidicola Mein but is sufficiently distinct to warrant separation.
In the same collection were specimens of Lithobius provocator Poc Mecistocephalus guildingii Newp. and Julus moreleti Lucas all previously reported from this locahty.
Peotiniunguis montereus sp.
nov.
Very similar in general appearance and structure to P. americanus Boll. but readily separated from this as also from the other two previously described species by the fact that the anal legs are each armed with a large claw.
In plusiodontus Att.
there is a mere vestige of a claw while in the other species there is no trace of one.
The known species of this genus may be separated by means of the following key a.
 Prebasal plate exposed.
a'.
 Anal legs armed with a claw montereus sp.
nov. b'.
 Anal legs unarmed americanus Boll.
b.
 Prebasal plate not exposed.
a'.
 Ventral pores not existing on segments beyond the 28th pleural pores absent europcBus Attems.
b'.
 Ventral pores on all plates from the first to the penult  pleural pores present plusiodontus Attems.
The specimens of montereus examined are in alcohol light brown anteriorly and pale yellow posteriorly the head being brown with the frontal region lighter.
The color seems to have faded in the alcohol and in life was probably reddish.
The two individuals have respectively 59 and 61 pairs of legs.
They are very gradually though conspicuously attenuated anteriorly and strongly and rapidly attenuated posteriorly.
The cephalic plate is longer than wdde 6.4 5.8  sides nearly straight and but slightly converging caudad the posterior angles well rounded posterior border truncate not mesally at all incurved.
Antennae moderate the ultimate article distinctly shorter than the two preceding together 1.5  2.
Ventral pores and last ventral plate nearly as in americanus.
Length of larger specimen 48 mm.
Locality.
 Pacific Grove Bay of Monterey California.
Geophilus regnans sp.
nov. Light brown paler posteriori Body wide anteriorly attenuated gradually posteriorly.
Head large.
Cephalic plate attenuated in front of middle  anterior border broadly triangular sides behind straight and subparallel posterior margin wide a little incurved mesally.
Frontal plate coalesced.
Prebasal plate exposed at the middle the basal plate being a little covered by the cephalic laterally.
Basal plate thrice wider than long.
Claws of prehensorial feet when closed not attaining the front margin of head  presternum in front widely angularly emarginate unarmed  all joints and the claw unarmed.
Antennae very short subsparsely pilose the ultimate article about equalling in length the two preceding together.
Sulci of dorsal scuta not deep.
Anterior spiracles oval oblique the first few large the others gradually decreasing median and posterior spiracles circular small.
Last ventral plate very wide its sides convexly curving moderately converging posteriorly posterior margin wide gently incurved.
Last pleurae moderate in size pores entirely covered by the ventral plate few small.
Anal legs stouter and much longer than the penult armed with a long stout claw like the other legs almost destitute of hair.
Pairs of legs 7981.
Locality.
 Southern California Los Angeles etc..
I am inclined to think this species the Strigamia cephalica of Wood.
But it is really a Geophilus and a new name must under any conditions be given to it as the name cephalicus was previously given by Wood to another species in this genus.
Geophilus cayugae sp.
nov.
Body little attenuated anteriorly strongly attenuated posteriorly.
Cephalic plate with anterior and posterior margins truncate  angles well rounded sides nearly straight subparallel longer than wide 7.4  6.7.
Frontal plate not distinctly separated.
Basal plate two and a half times wider than long.
Claws of prchensorial feet when closed barely reaching the front margin of head  presternum with chitinous lines front margin widely angularly emarginate unarmed femur and claw also unarmed.
First two spiracles large subcircular those following circular gradually decreasing in size caudad the last very small.
Last ventral plate rather narrow sides straight converging posteriorly.
Last coxae enlarged covered over entire exposed surface except posteriorly with large and small pores of which there are 30 or more on each side.
Anal pores distinct of moderate size.
First pair of legs much smaller and more slender than those following the second pair somewhat intermediate in size.
Anal legs stouter and much longer than the penult each armed with a very long and slender claw.
Pairs of legs 65  
.
Length 55 mm.
Locality.
 Ithaca New York.
Evidently close to lanius Br5l.
In cayugw however the anal pores are conspicuous not concealed absent
as in lanius.
Also the antenna3 are relatively much shorter than in lanius the cephalic plate is of a different shape the number of pleural pores is much larger and cover the pleurse above as well as below and laterally and the pairs of legs number 65  9  as against 57  9  in lanius.
Mecistooephalus anomalus sp.
nov.
Body and legs waxy yellow head pale somewhat reddish brown antennae pale yellowish brown.
Gradually attenuated from the head caudally.
Cephalic plate longer than wide in ratio of 7  4.75 strongly narrowed caudally posterior margin truncate.
Basal plate moderatelynarrowed wider anteriorly than long in ratio of 3  2 pleiirse exposed in usual manner.
Antennae not attenuated distally all articles excepting ultimate obconic ultimate article a little shorter than the two preceding together length 3.2 mm.
Claws of prehensorial feet when closed reaching but slightly beyond front margin of head presternal teeth pale obtuse median furrow of presternum wide shallow not well marked posteriorly femora with a stout blunt black tooth the next two joints with small black tuberclelike teeth the claws with an acute tooth.
Anterior prsescuta short but all distinctly exposed the median and posterior ones long.
A number of anterior dorsal scuta with a distinct median sulcus between the two lateral sulci.
The anterior ventral scuta with a deep median sulcus which does not attain the margin.
Anterior spiracle large oval subvertical the second and third of similar form but smaller those following circular rapidly decreasing in size those of the middle and posterior region being very small.
Last ventral plate wide strongly narrowed caudally the sides straight.
Last pleurae inflated having along the edge of the ventral plate on each side a row of 4 or 5 very small pores and at a distance on middle part a clearly larger isolated single pore.
Anal pore moderate.
First pair of legs much shorter and more slender than the second.
Anal legs stouter and much longer than the penult pair.
Pairs of legs 41 .
Length 22 mm.
 width 1 mm.
Locality.
 Pacific Grove California.
One male.
This species cannot well be identified with the M. limatus of Wood which is apparently a much larger form.
Aside from other minor differences more or less uncertainly indicated by Wood's description the number of legs of limatus is given as 4344 indicating that several specimens were examined.
The number 44 is of course an error but it is practically certain that the number of pairs of legs which so far as known is absolutely fixed for each species in this genus was 43 and not the unusual number 41 Linotaenia rubelliana sp.
nov. Color in life bright red fading in alcohol to a uniform brown the antennae alone remaining somewhat brighter.
Cephalic plate narrowed anteriorly in front subnarrowly rounded behind widely truncate.
Frontal plate clearly separated.
Prebasal plate well exposed.
Basal plate twice wider than long with no indication of a median furrow.
Antennse short attenuated distally the ultimate joint little shorter than the two preceding together all articles sparsely hirsute with short fine hairs.
Claws of prehensorial feet when closed falling much short of the front of the head femora unarmed tooth of claw large acute front margin of presternum deeply excavated.
All ventral scuta marked with a distinct median furrow from the posterior end of which extends outward over each half to the sides a shallow oval impression in front of the posterior margin.
Anterior spiracle moderate a little elongate subvertically the second similarly shaped and but little smaller  others circular very gradually decreasing in size caudally.
Last ventral plate very wide sides convexly rounded strongly converging caudally.
Last pleurae much enlarged pores serially arranged along and beneath the last ventral plate.
Anterior pair of legs distinctly shorter and more slender the legs regularly increasing in size from the first to about the sixth pair.
Anal pair of legs scarcely shorter than the penult a little more slender armed with a claw.
Pairs of legs 7175.
Length 6082 mm width of largest specimen 2.2 mm.
Length of antennae of largest specimen 4 mm.
Locality.
 Pacific Grove and Palo Alto California This large and handsome species cannot be the form described by Wood under the name epileptica from an individual captured near Puget's Sound The latter species is apparently much more like imperialis BroL the type of which comes from near the same locality.
According to the published descriptions and figures these species agree with each other and difTer from ruhelliana among other points in having the prebasal plate covered and in the larger number of legs 8183 pairs.
STUDIES IN THE ORTHOPTEROUS SUBFAMILIES ACRYDIIN TETTIGIN EUMASTACIN AND PROSCOPIN.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
The material treated in the foHowing pages is contained in the collections of the Academy the United States National Museum and of Mr. Morgan Hebard of Chestnut Hill Philadelphia.
The material studied consisted of two hundred and twentyseven specimens representing fortysix species and thirtyone genera of which one genus and twelve species are described as new.
The author wishes to thank Dr. W. H. Ashmead of the U. S. National Museimi and Mr. Hebard for their kindness in permitting the use of material.
Subfamily ACRYDIIXE Tettigince auct..
Section Cladonotae.
DASYLEUROTETTIXi n. gen. Allied to Diotarus and Trachytettix Stal but differing from the former in the presence of tegmina and wings the rugulose vertex deplanate and scabrous pronotum and the truncate character of the cephalic margin of the same.
From Trachytettix it is separated by the form of the antennae the unspined vertex the longer cephalic femora and the position of the antennae.
Form depressed subquadratc in transverse section at the humeral angle  surface scabrous.
Facial scutellum with a Vshaped longitudinal excavation carinse distinct subparallel  antennae placed against the carinae of the facial scutellum and distant from the eyes apex of width equal to the remainder of the appendage vertex broad about twice the width of one of the eyes.
Pronotum truncate cephalad produced caudad beyond the tips of the caudal femora humeral angle prominent.
Cephalic femora nearly three times as long as wide.
Caudal femora heavy and with the paginae moderately sculptured.
Posterior metatarsi distinctly longer than the third tarsal joints.
Dasyleurotettix curriei n. sp.
Types cT' and 9  Mount Coffee Liberia.
April 1897.
R. P.
Currie.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
8111.
Head short and broad vertex transverse the cephalic margin trun1 daavg rough isvpog flat tetti grasshopper.
cate and without a distinct frontal carina median carina of the vertex low slightly projecting cephalad facial scutellum longitudinal subparallel the margins arcuate and the costa distinctly sinuate above and below antennae inserted on a level with the ventral margin of the eyes placed against the facial scutellum when extended caudad reaching to the humeral angle of the pronotum eyes subpyriform in outline moderately prominent.
Pronotum strongly depressed arcuate cephalad closely and uniformly scabrous obscurely lineatorugose cephalic margin truncate humeral angles broad extended depressed lateral lobes with the elytral sinus moderately deep inferior sinus deep and acute caudal angle produced and apically truncate lateral carina scabrodenticulate obsolete cephalad of the humeral angles median carina depressed arcuate cephalad caudad of the humeral angles irregularly undulate caudal process long subulate extending caudad of the tips of the caudal femora.
Tegmina cylindrical ovate the surface finely tuberculate.
Wings large extending slightly bejond the apex of the caudal process of the pronotum.
Ovipositor valves of the female rather short thick serratodentate.
Cephalic femora moderately undulate dorsad and ventrad.
Median femora undulate dorsad trilobate ventrad.
Caudal femora short inflated femoral lobe short and thick dorsal carina with several subobsolete points ventral carina with several subobsolete lobes external pagina and dorsolateral face decorated with strong diagonal scabrous ridges tibiae strongly spined the canthi minutely serrate metatarsi slightly exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length pulvilli subequal in length.
General color bistre the wings with the cephalic margin and a large rounded spot covering the great part of the wing mummy brown median limbs barred with cinnamon caudal limbs more or less regularly blotched with obscure cinnamon.
Measurements.
Length of body 10.7 mm.
12 mm.
Length of pronotum 12.5  13  Greatest width of pronotum 4.8  5.2  Length of posterior femora 6.5  7  This curious genus and species is represented by a series of five males and nine females all of which are from Mount Coffee.
Little variation is exhibited by the series a slight difference in the intensity of the scabrous character of the pronotum being all that is noteworthy.
I take pleasure in dedicating this species to my friend Mr. Rolla P. Currie of the U. S. National Museum who collected the types.
PANTELIA Bolivar.
1887.
Pantelia Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
Belg. XXXI pp.
192 214.
Type.
 P. cristulata Bolivar   Cladonotus horrendus Walker .Pantelia armata Bolivar.
1893.
Pantelia armata Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France LXII p. 176.
Assini Ivory Coast.
Mount Coffee Liberia.
April 1897.
R. P. Currie.
U. S. N. M. Three females.
These individuals seem to agree very well with Bolivar's description except that they are somewhat larger.
Two of the three specimens have the caudal process of the pronotum produced the remaining individual having the caudal femora hardly exceeded by the pronotum.
These two individuals possess welldeveloped wings which extend beyond the process of the pronotum.
The genus Pantelia includes three species P. horrendus Walker' P. cristulata Bolivar from Sierra Leone and the Ivory Coast P. armata Bolivar from Liberia and the Ivory Coast and P. uncinata Bolivar from Caconda Angola.
Section Scelimenae.
SCELIMENA ServiUe.
1839.
Scelimena Serville Orthopteres p. 762.
Included Tetrix producta harpago and uncinata Serville of which the first may be selected as the type.
Scelimena abbotti n. sp.
Type 9  Khow Sai Dow Trong Lower Siam 1000 feet.
JanuaryFebruary 1899.
Dr. W. L.
Abbott.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
8112.
Closely allied to S. producta but differing in the smaller size the narrower vertex the slightly more compressed form the uncurved character of the spines on the lateral angles of the pronotum and in the absence of protuberances on the ventral carinse of the posterior femora.
Size medium form elongate surface minutely scabrous.
Head with the vertex very distinctly narrower than one of the eyes subtruncate declivent and rounded cephalad median carina low but distinct frontal costa forked between the ocelli rami little divergent 2 Vide Karsch Entom.
Nachr. XVI p. 27.
3 Catal.
Spec.
Derm.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus. V p. 842.
 Jornal Scienc.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lishoa 2a ser. I p. 217.
 Compared with a pair of S. producta presented by Dr. Saussure.
when viewed laterad distinctly arcuate and sinuate dorsad antennae slender about twothirds the length of the caudal femora inserted on a level with the ventral margin of the eyes paired ocelli placed halfway between the vertex and the insertion of the antennae eyes subglobose quite prominent somewhat elevated.
Pronotum elongate depressed dorsad surface undulate with rounded bosslike elevations cephalic margin truncate cephalic lateral spines short and blunt lateral carinas parallel cephalad lateral spines strong depressed directed laterad without any cephalic curve inferior sinus rectangulate humeral angle little extended and represented by the lateral carinae median carina low fading caudad and subobsolete between the sulci elevations of the pronotum distributed as follows one large median boss in the interhumeral region two series of paired protuberances placed caudad caudal process extending beyond the caufal femora a distance equal to their length.
Tegmina elongate acuminate apex narrowly rounded surface coarsely reticulate.
Wings reaching to the tip of pronotal process.
Cephalic femora with the carinae undulate.
Median femora slenderer than the cephalic and wdth the carinae undulate.
Caudal femora rather slender sparsely granulate carinae not undulate or dentate femoral lobe low and subobsolete external pagina and dorsolateral face with strong oblique sculpture tibiae with the margins expanded lamellate unarmed but very finely serrate metatarsi about half again as long as the remaining tarsal joints.
General color bistre obscm'ely marked on the lateral carinae and the pronotal spines with ferruginous.
Cephalic and median limbs with several obscure bands of wood brown.
Caudal tarsi margins and proximal portions of the tibiae and two obscure bands on the dorsal aspect of the femora wood brown.
Measurements.
Length of body 15 mm.
Length of pronotum 21.5  Humeral width of pronotum 4  Greatest width of pronotum including spines .... 6.8  Length of caudal femora 8.5  A paratypic female identical with the type in all respects has also been examined.
I take pleasure in dedicating this striking species to the collector.
Dr. W. L. Abbott who by his tireless energy has placed in the hands of American zoologists an enormous amount of valuable exotic material.
CRIOTETTIX Bolivar.
1887.
CriofeUix Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
Belg. XXXI pp.
193 226.
Included tricarinatus nexuosus horrei nigellus saginatus miliaris haeri subulatus vidali perminutus rugosus insidiosus pidcher pnllus and clavitarsis Bolivar nodulosus Stal hrevis and emarginatus Haan and bispinosus Dalman.
Of these the last is the oldest and probably the best known and may with justice be considered the type.
Criotettix bispinosus Dalman.
1818.
Acrydium hispinosum Dalman Ivongl.
Vetenskaps Academiens Handlingar 1S18 p. 77.
East India.
Batu Sangkar Tanah Datar Padangsche Bovenland Sumatra AugustSeptember 1901.
A. C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One female.
This species has a very extensive range the territory covered including Burma Sumatra Java Borneo and China.
The only previous Sumatran record was from Batang Singalang mentioned by Haan.
Criotettix bispinosus japonicus Haan.
183944.
Acridium Tetrix bispinosutn var.
Japonica Haan Bijdragen Kennis Orthoptera in Verhandl.
Natuurl.
Geschied. p. 169.
Loo Choo Islands Japan.
Through Y.
Hirase.
Nine males eight females.
A. N. S.
Phila. and Hebard Coll.
These specimens represent a wellmarked geographic race of bispinosus characterized by the more apparent linear rugosities on the pronotum and the slightly broader fastigium.
Section Metrodorse.
SYSTOLEDERUS Bolivar.
1887.
Sjstolederus Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
Belg. XXXI pp.
194 234 Included ang usticeps and uncinatus Sia  cephcdiciis Haan and ophthalmicus haani and languidus Bolivar of which haani is well figured and may be considered the type.
Systolederus cephalicus Haan.
183944.
Acridium Tetrix cephcdicum Haan Bijdragen Kennis Orthoptera in Verhandl.
Natuurl.
Geschied. p. 169.
Batang Singalang Sumatra.
Batu Sangkar Tanah Datar Padangsche Bovenland Sumatra.
AugustSeptember 1901.
A. C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.
A N. S.
Phila.
Three males four females.
These specimens appear to represent this species which is known only from Haan's brief description.
Bolivar having never seen the species was unable to add any information to the original description.
The possession of a pair of more or less apparent posthumeral spots of velvety black is shared by all the specimens which are however somewhat smaller than Haan's measurements.
MAZARREDIA Bolivar.
1887.
Mazarredia Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI pp.
194 236.
Included sculpta remissa semperi abbreviata insularis atypa lauta gemella celebica and centrosa Bolivar gallinacea fuscipes and rufipes Stal.
As gemella is the only species figured it can be selected as the type.
Mazarredia aptera n. sp.
Type  c
 Island of Labuan British North Borneo.
Hebard Collection.
Differing from all the previously known species of the genus except M. minuta and truncata Bolivar in the absence of tegmina and wings and from these two species it can readily be distinguished by the greater size and acute caudal process of the pronotum.
Size medium form depressed surface scabrous.
Head with the occiput not elevated above the level of the pronotum vertex truncate about equal to one of the eyes in width median carina projecting considerably beyond the cephalic margin lateral carinse distinct but by no means as apparent as the median no frontal carina present frontal costa forked slightly above the ocelli rami considerably divergent moderately arcuate when viewed laterad and sinuate dorsad  antennae inserted on a level wdth the ventral margin of the eyes median ocellus placed distinctly ventrad of the antennse paired ocelli placed between the middle of the eyes eyes subovoid moderately prominent.
Pronotum depressed above subconcave cephalic margin very broadly and obtusely angulate humeral angle not prominent caudal process not exceeding the apex of the abdomen and not reaching the tips of the caudal femora gradually acuminate to a short distance from the apex where it becomes sharply acuminate with the apex hastate and slightly subulate  posterior angle of the lateral lobes moderately produced and rectangularly extended when viewed dorsad apically truncate inferior sinus rectangulate elytral sinus represented by a very slight emargination median carina slight cephalad of the humeral angles very slightly arcuate and elevated undulate caudad lateral carinae obsolete cephalad arcuate caudad of the humeral angles.
No tegmina or wings present.
Cephalic and median femora not appreciably undulate.
Caudal femora short strongly inflated dorsal and ventral margins evenly arcuate femoral lobe short blunt external pagina and dorsolateral face with distinct but rather low sculpture tibiae well supplied with low blunt spines canthi sparsely and weakly serrulate metatarsi equal to the third tarsal joint in length pulvilli low.
General color vandykc brown obscurely marked along the carinse of the pronotum vith and having annulations on the limbs of pale cinnamon.
The pale annulations on the caudal femora are much narrower than the dark bands and on the caudal tibiae but one distinct annulus is present that being preapical genicular regions of the caudal femora blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body 11 mm.
Length of pronotum 9.8  Width across humeral angles of the pronotum .... 4  Greatest width of pronotum 5.2  Length of caudal femora 7.8  The type is the only specimen of this species seen.
CHIRIQUIA Morse.
1900.
Chiriquia Morse Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. II pp.
5 6.
Type.
 C. serrata Morse.
Chiriquia serrata Morse.
1900.
Chiriquia serrata Morse Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. II p. 7 fig.
Castillo Nicaragua Volcan de Chiriqui 2500 to 4000 feet Panama.
Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard Coll.
One immature male.
This individual presents several characters which are more or less at variance with Morse's figure the head being more compressed and with the carinse of the vertex developed into distinct erect processes and the median carina of the pronotum has but two distinct undulations.
As the specimen is immature these differences in all probability are due to the stage of the insect.
AMOKPHOPUS Serville.
1S39.
Amorphopus Serville Orthopteres p. 756.
Type.
 A. notahilis Serville.
Amorphopus antennatus Bolivar.
1887.
Amorphopus antennatus Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
Belg. XXXI p. 251 figs.
19 19a.
Upper Amazon.
Venezuela.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One female.
MITRARIA Bolivar.
1887.
Mitraria Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI pp.
194 253.
Included M. producta Bolivar and phyllocera Haan of which the former may be considered the type as phyllocera was apparently unrepresented in the material studied by Bolivar.
Mitraria pontificalis n. sp.
Type 9  Mount Coffee Liberia.
February 1897.
R. P.
Currie.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
8113.
Differing from either of the previously known species of the genus in the unarmed margins of the cephahc process and in the smaller size.
The generic diagnosis given by Bolivar will require some modification to include this form as the antennse are inserted between the eyes and the metatarsi of the caudal limbs are distinctly longer than the third tarsal joint.
Size rather small form elongate surface finely granulose.
Head with the cephalic process produced a distance before the eyes equal to the greatest length of one of the latter depressed dorsad acute the apex rounded margins entire and carinate median carina distinct face distinctly declivent frontal costa forked slightly cephalad of the ocelli rami slightly divergent median ocellus inserted on a level with the ventral margin of the eyes paired ocelli placed directly between the eye eyes subtrigonal hardly prominent antennae short very slender apex acute inserted directly between the eyes and equidistant from them and the frontal costa.
Pronotum slender very elongate caudal process extending beyond the tips of the caudal femora a distance about equal to their length very slightly subulate cephalic margin very broadly obtuseangulate  dorsum slightly arched transversely median and lateral carinse distinct the interhumeral region bearing a pair of short accessory carinse placed on each side of the median carina lateral lobes with the posterior angle acute inferior sinus rectangulate elytral sinus slight.
Tegmina cylindrical ovate.
Wings extending sHghtly beyond the apex of the caudal process of the pronotum.
Cephalic and median femora with their margins very slightly undulate.
Caudal femora slender margins evenly curved genicular spine distinct and acute femoral lobe distinct external pagina with distinct but irregular diamondshaped sculpture  tibise slightly sinuate armed apically with distinct spines canthi minutely serrulate metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length the two apical pulvilli each slightly longer than the basal one.
General color wood brown irregular dotted and blotched along the caringe with vandyke brown face blackish brown eyes ecru drab.
Measurements.
Length of body 10.2 mm.
Length of pronotum 13  Humeral width of pronotum 2  Length of posterior femora 5.2  A paratypic female has been studied in addition to the type.
43 Section Tettigiae.
PROTOTETTIX Bolivar.
1887.
Prototettix Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI pp.
195 255.
Included P. fossulatus Bolivar and impressus and lohulatus Stal of which Bolivar's species may be considered the type.
Prototettix fossulatus Bolivar.
1887.
Prototettix fossulatus Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI p. 256.
Apiahy Sao Paulo Brazil.
Lota Chile.
January 1904.
C. S.
Reed.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Three males.
These specimens fully agree with Bolivar's description except that the pagina of the caudal limbs are elevated into plicate ridges as in lohulatus.
From lohulatus however they differ in the partially hidden tegmina the sinuate ventrocaudal margins of the pronotum and the more apparent median carina.
As the original description was based on a female these specimens are materially smaller than the measurements given by Bolivar.
ACRYDIUM Geoffroy.
1764.
Acrydium Geoffroy Hist.
Abreg.
Insect I p.
390.''
Included six nonbinomial species the genus being later restricted by Fabricius to include but two species hipundatum and suhulatum of which two the latter may be considered the type.
Acrydium japonioum Bolivar.
1887.
Tettix japonicus Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI p. 263.
Japan.
Kyoto Japan.
Y. Hirase No.
41.
A. N. S.
Phila. and Hebard Coll.
Twentynine males eighteen females.
This species is a close relative of A. tilrki Krauss and also bears a superficial resemblance to the American genus Neotettix.
It is however a member of the genvis Acrydium in the restricted sense.
PARATETTIX Bolivar.
1887.
ParateUix Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI pp.
195 270.
Included twentyeight species of which peruvianus and cayennensis have been removed to Allotettix schochii made the type of Clypeotettix and fallax and aztecus placed in Telmatettix.
Of the remaining species the only European one can be considered the type meridionalis Rambur.
 The edition of 1762 is not available for examination but that of 1764 is said to be identical except for a few minor details. '
Syst.
Ent. pp.
278 1775.
Paratettix freygessnerii Bolivar.
1887.
Paratettix FreyGessnerii Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
Belg. XXXI p. 276.
Cuba.
Portland Jamaica.
Johnson and Fox.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male.
The similarity of this species to the Old World P. meridionalis is as noticed by Bolivar very striking.
Paratettix caudatus Saussure.
1861.
Tettix caudata Saussure Revue et Magasin de Zoologie 2e ser. XIII p. 399.
Guiana.
Bartica British Guiana.
April 2 and May 11 and 12 1901.
R. J.
Crew.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Two males three females.
One of these specimens has the coloration more contrasted than the others the interhumeral region being bright ochraceoiis margined posteriorly by a broken line of velvety black.
Paratettix mexicanus Saussure.
1861 .
Tettix mexicana Saussure Revue et Magasin de Zoologie 2e ser. XIII p. 400.
Tropical Mexico.
Monte Redondo Costa Rica.
January 1903.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Two males.
This species has previously been recorded from Volcan de Irazu Costa Rica.
Paratettix scaber Thunberg.
1815.
Arijdiu7i scabru n Thunljerg Nova Acta Reg.
Soc.
Sclent.
Upsal. VII p. 159.
Cape of Good Hope.
Congo.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Two males three females.
This species has been recorded from Gaboon Zanzibar Caffreria Lourenco Marquez and East Indies by Bolivar and from Adeli Togoland by Karsch.
Paratettix histricus Stil.
1860.
Tetrix histrica Stal Kong.
Svenska Freg.
Eugenies Resa Ins. p. 347.
Java.
Loo Choo Islands Japan.
Through Y. Hirase No.
71.
A. N. S.
Phila. and Hebard Coll.
Two males seven females.
This has previously been recorded from localities reaching from Sumatra to the Philippines including North Australia and New Caledonia.
CLYPEOTETTIX Hancock.
1902.
Chjpeoteitix Hancock The Tettigida of North America pp.
36 124.
Type.
 Paratettix schocki laps.
p. schochii Bolivar.
Clypeotettix schochii Bolivar
1887.
ParateUix schochii Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI p.''274 Guatemala Mexico Venezuela.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male.
Chinandega Nicaragua.
C. F.
Baker.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male.
These specimens are questionably assigned to this species as they are much smaller and more rugose than Mexican individuals which undoubtedly represent schochii.
It is very probable the two above listed specimens represent a new species but in view of the known variability of schochii I should hesitate to describe them.
HEDOTETTIX Bolivar.
1887.
Hedotettix Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI pp.
195 283.
Included ten species of which the first and oldest  gracilis Haan  may be considered the type.
Hedotettix gracilis Haan.
183944.
Acridium Tetrix gracile Haan Bijdragen Kennis Orthoptera in Verhandl.
Natuurl.
Geschied. p. 169.
Ivrawang Tondano.
Trong Lower Siam.
Dr. W. L.
Abbott.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
One male.
Batu Sangkar Tanah Datar Padangsche Bovenland Sumatra AugustSeptember 1901.
A. C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male.
This species has been recorded from Burma by Brunner and if he is'correct in synonymizing H. festivus it is also found in Ceylon.
As far as the character of the median femora goes the specimens mentioned above support his contention as although true gracilis they have the median femora heavier and with the carinse more arcuate than in the cephalic pair.
The cephalic margin of the pronotum is obtuseangulate in both specimens.
ALLOTETTIX Hancock.
1899.
Allotettix Hancock Ent.
News. X p. 276.
Type.
 Allotettix prolongatus Hancock.
Allotettix peruvianus Bolivar.
1887.
ParatetHx 'peruvianus Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI p. 272.
Pumamarca Peru.
CarriUo Costa Rica.
Hebard Coll.
Seven males five females.
This species has previously been recorded from Panama and Darien in addition to the type locality.
Allotettix cayennensis Bolivar.
1887.
Paratettix cayennensis Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI p. 273.
Cayenne.
Bartica British Guiana.
April and May 1901.
R. J Crew.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Eight males three females.
 Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova XXXIII p. HI.
Section BatrachidesB.
TETTIGIDEA Scudder.
1862.
TeUigidea Scudder Boston Journ.
Nat.
Hist. VII p. 476.
Type.
 T. lateralis Say.
Tettigidea pulchella n. sp.
Type   Bartica British Guiana.
April 27 1901.
R. J.
Crew.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Differing from all the other species of the genus in the truncate fastigium.
Size rather small form moderately elongate surface scabrous.
Head with the vertex about equal to one of the eyes in width truncate cephalad and projecting but slightly cephalad of the eyes not excaAated median carina distinct and rather prominent frontal carina distinct frontal costa arcuate when viewed laterad rami very slight and very gradually diverging antennae inserted between the ventral portions of the eyes eyes subtrigonal in outline slightly prominent.
Pronotum subtectate caudal process reaching the tips of the oapositors but not of the caudal femora cephalic margin rectangulate produced centrally into an acute spine median carina distinct moderately arcuate cephalad lateral carinae obsolete between the sulci humeral angles not projecting posterior process of the lateral lobes rectangulate inferior sinus long but not very deep elytral sinus acutely cut.
Tegmina cylindrical ovate apex broad and blunt.
Wings slightly exceeding the caudal process of the pronotum.
Cephalic femora with the dorsal sulci distinct but shallow.
Caudal femora rather short and heavy the dorsal outline strongly arcuate the ventral outline nearly straight femoral lobe sharp and projecting genicular spine short and blunt margins finely serrate external pagina and dorsoIateral face shall owly but distinctly sculptured tibise rather strongly armed canthi serrate metatarsi equal to the third joint in length.
General color bistre inclining toward cinnamon below antennae tawny proximad blackish distad cephalic and median limbs more or less distinctly annulate with the darker shade on a cinnamon ground.
Measureme7its.
Length of body ... 9.8 mm.
Length of pronotum 9  Humeral width of pronotum 2.5  Length of caudal femora 6  The type is the only specimen which has been examined.
SAUSSURELLA Bolivar.
1897.
Saussurella Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. XXXI pp.
196 303.
Type.
 S. cornuta Haan.
Saussurella sumatrensis Bolivar.
1898.
Saussurella sumatrensis Bolivar Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova XXXIX p. 80.
PangherangPisang Sumatra.
Goenong Soegi Lampong Sumatra.
OctoberNovember 1901.
A. C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Two males.
As the specimens examined by Bolivar were females the measurements of a male individual may be of interest.
Length of body 12.5 mm. length of pronotum 16.5 length of pronotal process 2.7 length of caudal femora 7.
Section TripetaloceraB.
DISCOTETTIX Costa.
1864.
Discotettix Costa Annuario Ius.
Zool.
Univ.
Napoli II p. 59.
Tjrpe.
D. armatus Costsi Tetjix helzebuth Serville.
Discotettix belzebuth Serville.
1839.
Tetrix Belzebuth Serville Orthopteres p. 759.
Java.
Ena Balu British North Borneo.
Hebard Coll.
One male two females.
Island of Labuan British North Borneo.
Hebard Coll.
One female.
One of the Kina Balu females has the pronotum not exceeding the tips of the caudal femora.
Subfamily EUMASTACIN.E.
Section Ohoroetypi.
ORCHETYPUS Brunner.
1898.
Orchetypus Brunner Abhandl.
Senckenb.
Xaturfor.
Gesell. XXI' heft 2 p. 220.
Included 0. rotundatus and subtruncatus Brunner of which the latter may be considered the type as it is figured.
Orchetypus ocreatus n. sp.
Type 9  Luebo Congo.
D. W.
Snyder.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
8114.
Closely allied to the Ceylonese 0. ceylonicus Karsch but differing in the strongly sinuate caudal portion of the median carina of the pronotum the larger spines on the caudal tibice the more subequal tegmina and the shorter caudate apex of the wings.
Size large form compressed surface riigulose.
Head with the occiput and vertex ascending fastigium produced elevated not retrorse slightly antrorse acute apex truncate with a slight median cmargination median carina present dorsad and cephalad face flattened slightly concave much as in 0. ceylonicus infraocular carinae very sharp frontal costa with a flaskshaped expansion between the antennae antennse short but slightly exceeding the greatest length of the eye eyes crudely elongateovate distinctly shorter than the infraocular portion of the gense little prominent.
Pronotum strongly compressed  median crest strongly elevated produced over the head almost to the tip of the fastigium very slightly arcuate in the cephalic half bisinuate on caudal half caudal process acute slightly recurved at the apex lateral lobes about as high as long cephalic and caudal margins straight inferior margin truncatosinuate.
Tegmina elongate lanceolate apex acuminate narrowly rounded exceeding the tips of the caudal femora costal margin strongly dilated proximad.
Wings equal to the tegmina in length tips caudal and extending beyond the major portion of the wing a distance equal to onefifth the total length of the member.
Ovipositor valves with the margins crassodentate.
Cephalic femora dilated pyramidical in outline the apex proximal tibiae slightly bowed.
Median femora with the dorsal carina slightly elevated and arcuate the cephaloventral carina moderately lamellate distad tibiae straight.
Caudal femora heavy dorsal carina arcuate and strongly serratodentate ventral carina minutely serrate external pagina with an irregular rhomboid pattern tibiae slightly sinuate distad proximal section with an acute trigonal lobe on the dorsal surface spines on the internal margin larger than those on the external  metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
General color tawnyolive suffused on the dorsal half of the pronotum with raw umber  a broad bar of buff covering the genae and the lateral lobes of the pronotum the distal half of the caudal femora the proximal half of the caudal tibiae and the cephalic and median femora irregularly blotched and suffused with the same tint.
Measurements.
Length of body 38.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 13  Greatest depth of pronotum 11  Length of tegmina 21.5  Length of caudal femora 17  The type is unique.
PLAGIOTRIPTUS Karsch.
1889.
Plagiotriphis Karsch Entom.
Nachr. XV p. 8.
Type.
 Plagiotriptus hippiscus Gerstaecker.
Plagiotriptus hippiscus Gerstaecker.
1873.
Choroetypus hippiscus Gerstaecker Von der Decken's Reisen in OstAfrika Bd.
Ill Abth.
2 p. 42 taf.
2 fig.
8.
Mombasa.
Mombasa East Africa.
Hebard Coll.
One female.
Section Erianthi.
ERIANTHUS Stai.
1876.
Erianthus Stal Ofversigt af K. Vetensk.Akad.
Forhandlingar 1876 No.
3 p. 55.
Type.
 According to Biirr Mastax guttata Westwood.
Erianthus nipponensis n. sp.
Type   Nikko Hondo Japan.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
8115.
Belong to the group comprising E. guttatus Westwood flavoinflatus Brunner and acutipennis Saussure.
From all of these it differs in having the f astigium unreflexed  from guttatus it also differs in the lower and more obtuse fastigium from flavoinflatus in the smaller size obliquely truncate apical portion of the tegmina and nondentate cephalic margin of the pronotum and from acutipennis in the form of the tips of the tegmina and the rotund atoangulate caudal margin of the pronotum.
Considerable affinity exists also with E. ohtusus Burr but that species has the fastigium obtuse.
Size rather large form elongate.
Head with the occiput and vertex sharply ascending the fastigium elevated above the eyes a distance equal to half the length of the latter not re flexed rectangulate a median carina present on both the dorsal and cephalic aspects frontal costa with the interantennal expansion elongate pyriform the costal carinse apparent almost to the clypeus  antennae inserted slightly below the middle of the eyes eyes elongate ovate moderately prominent.
Pronotum hardly selliform slightly tectate median carina distinct somewhat undulate cephalic margin sinuatotruncate with a distinct median emargination  caudal margin obtuseangulate with the angle rounded dorsal surface strongly rugose transverse sulci not apparent lateral lobes slightly longer than the caudal depth inferior margin obliquely sinuate cephaloventral angle broadly rounded caudoventral angle rectangulate.
Tegmina reaching to the apex of the abdomen enlarged apically and obliquely truncate.
Wings ample as long as the tegmina.
Ovipositor valves with the teeth decidedly crassate and Anal.
Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat. XXVIII p. 103. blunt subgenital plate acute with a distinct median sulcus.
Caudal femora slender falling slightly short of the apex of the abdomen the dorsal and dorsolateral carinse sparsely serratodentate genicular lobes spinose genicular spine acute tibise slightly sinuate the spines of the internal margin longer than those of the external margin metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length dorsal carina
serratodentate.
General color raw umber the head inclining toward cinnamon eyes vandyke brown tegmina with a preapical hyaline spot on both the cephalic and caudal margins caudal femora wood brown with three obscure annuli of darker brown caudal tibiae of the general tint with several obscure annuli of wood brown.
Measurements.
Length of body 30 mm.
Length of pronotmii 4.2  Length of tegmina 22  Length of caudal femora 15  The t3rpe is unique.
Erianthus malcolmi Bolivar.
1903.
Erianthus Malcolmi Bolivar Boletin Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat. Ill p. 302.
Malacca Kwala Lumpur Strait Settlements.
Trong Lower Siam.
Dr. W. L.
Abbott.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Three males.
These specimens fully agree with Bolivar's description except that the face the lateral lobes of the pronotum and the anal area of the tegmina are suffused with dull greenish which is probably due to the condition of the specimens.
Section Erucii.
ERUCIUS Stl.
1875.
Erucius Stal Bihang till K. SvenskaVetens.Akad.
Handl. Ill No.
14 p. 36.
Type.
 Mastax agrionoides Haan.
Erucius vitreus Wcstwood.
1845.
Mastax vitrea Westwood Arcana Entom. I p. ICO PI.
2G fig.
2.
Java.
Goenong Soegi Lampong Sumatra.
OctoberNovember 1901.
A. C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Two males one female.
It is worthy of note that the specimens examined by Brunner and 10 Ahhandl.
Senckenb.
Naturf.
Gesellsch. XXIV heft 2 p. 227. considered vitreus are not Westwood's species an examination of the measurements of the two making this fact very apparent.
The male of vitreus has the subgenital plate acuminate instead of truncate as described by Brunner.
Erucius magnificus n. sp.
71898.
Erucius vitreus Brunner Abhandl.
Senckenb.
Naturf.
Gesellsch. XXIV heft 2 p. 227.
Type    Island of I.abuan British North Borneo.
Hebard Collection.
This species may be separated from vitreus Westwood by its larger size and more ample tegmina and wings.
As no males have been examined it is possible that it represents the female of E. pictus Saussure based on the male only.
Size large form as usual in the genus.
Head strongly elevated the occiput and vertex sharply ascending the interocular region quite narrow about half as wide again as the frontal costa at its widest part frontal costa narrow strongly compressed at the ocelli subequal below except for a slight widening at the median ocellus rather deeply sulcate  antennae very short the insertion strongly crowded between the eyes and the frontal costa eyes subelliptical moderately prominent.
Pronotum selliform cephalic margin sinuatotruncate caudal margin arcuate  prozona with three distinct transverse ridges metazona reticulate with a slight median carina lateral lobes slightly deeper than long cephaloventral angle obtuse caudoventral angle rectangulate ventral margin oblique sinuate.
Tegmina large exceeding the apex of the abdomen by more than onefourth their length considerably expanded at the tips costal margin strongly arcuate distadapex oblicuely truncate.
Wings equal to the tegmina in length.
Ovipositor valves punctate the margins crassodentate  subgenital plate apically acute with a slight median longitudinal depression.
Caudal femora slender falling slightly short of the tips of the ovipositor valves the distal half slender dorsal and dorsolateral carinse sparsely serratodentate tibiae slightly sinuate in the proximal half external spines decidedly smaller than the internal ones metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints superior carinse serratodentate.
General color specimen discolored bistre the face washed with cinnamon tegmina tawny olive with two faint oblique apical bars of umber parallel with the apical margin caudal femora with faint traces of several annuli of a light shade caudal tibiae marmorate with umber on a wood brown ground. 
Revue Suisse de Zoologie XI fasc.
I p. 85 fig.
13.
NanzaBadan Borneo.
Measurements.
Length of jjody 30.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 4.8  Length of tegmina 30.5  Length of caudal femora 16.5  Two females of this species have been studied the additional specimen being in every way identical with the type.
Erucius dimidiatipes Bolivar.
1898 Erucius dimidiatipes Bolivar Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Geneva XXXIX p. 81.
SiRambe Sumatra.
Goenong Soegi Lampong Sumatra.
OctoberNovember 190L A. C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M.
Killer.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Two males.
The basal portion of the caudal femora of these specimens have retained their original color which is Chinese orange.
By an unfortunate transposition in Burr's key the femora of this species are described as ''basi nigra apice pallida while Bolivar's original reads Femora postica pallida dimidio apicali nigro.
Section Eumastaces.
EUMASTAX Burr.
1899.
Eumastax Burr Anal.
Soc.
Espail.
Hist.
Nat. XXVIII p. 257.
Type.
 Mastax tenuis Perty.
Eumastax dentatus Saussure.
1903.
Eumastax dentatus Saussure Revue Suisse de Zoologie XI fasc.
I p. 91.
Palmares Costa Rica.
Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard Collection.
One male one female.
Costa Rica.
Schild and Bergdorf.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
One male.
The female individual is somewhat smaller than Saussure's measurements but otherwise is identical.
PAEAMASTAX Burr.
1899.
Paramastax Burr Anal.
Soc.
Espafi.
Hist.
Nat. XXVIII p. 268.
Type.
 Mastax nigra Scudder.
Paramastax magna GiglioTos.
1898.
Mastax magna GiglioTos BoUett.
Mus.
Zoolog.
Anat.
Comp XIII No.
311 p. 38.
Valley of Santiago Ecuador.
Pichesjand Perene Valleys Peru 20003000 feet.
Soc.
Geog.
de Lima.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
One male.
The'male of this species is said by Burr to have the face unicolor but in the individual before me it and the genae are marked with a broad bandof yellowish as in Iceta.
personata and other species.
The characters of the cerci and the coloration of the limbs however place it in magna the aljsence of the facial decoration in Burr's species possibly being due to the fact that his specimens were from Mexico and for that reason representing another species.
As far as can be made from GiglioTos' diagnosis of the female this specimen is his species.
MASYNTES Karsch.
1SS9.
Masyntes Karsch Entom.
Nachr. XV pp.
26 31.
Type.
 Mastax gundlachii Scudder.
Masyntes borellii GiglioTos.
1897.
Masyntes Borellii GiglioTos BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino XII No.
302 p. 17.
San Pedro Paraguay.
Chapada Matto Grosso Brazil.
April.
H. H.
Smith.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
One male one female.
The female specimen agrees very well with the original description except that the size is slightly less.
The subgenital plate of the male is more produced and acute than in tigris while the fastigium is more distinctly truncate with a very slight median emargination which is more apparent in the male than in the female.
The orange maculation on the dorsal surface involves two segments in the male instead of one as in the female and the lateral lobes of the pronotum are subequal in depth not produced ventrad as seen in M. tigris.
Masyntes tigris Burr.
1899.
Masyntes Tigris Burr Anal.
Soc.
Espaii.
Hist.
Nat. XXVIII p. 276.
Paraguay.
Corumba Matto Grosso Brazil.
March Highland.
H. H.
Smith.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Two males.
Chapada Matto Grosso Brazil.
October Campo.
H. H.
Smith.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
One male.
The Chapada individual has the tegmina but half the length of those organs in the Corumba specimens.
This species is considerably larger than borellii but very closely related.
Section Thericleis.
THERICLES Stdl.
1875.
Thericles Stal Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.Akad.
Handlingar III No.
14 p. 35.
Included T. ohtusifrons and com'pressijroris Stal the latter since having been removed to Pseudothericles leaves as the type ohtusifrons.
Thericles gnu Karsch.
1896.
Thericles gnu Karsch Stettin Entom.
Zeit. LVII p. 248.
PtU Nsororo 2000 m.. East Central Africa.
Liiebo Congo.
D. W.
Snyder.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
One male one female.
As far as can be determined from Karsch's rather meagre description of a female the above specimens represent his species.
Difference is noted in the unicolorous face the limbs however being suffused with blackish which is limited on the caudal femora to the distal half.
The male is gaily colored as in T. zebra and is but slightly smaller but the genae are solid yellowish from the eye down the caudal margin of the lateral lobes of the pronotum are more broadly yellowish than the cephalic the ventral margin is blacldsh and the lateral aspect of the proximal abdominal segments are almost solid black.
The apex of the male abdomen is strongly clavate recurved and directed cephalad the subgenital plate is inflated subcylindrical elongate cerci simple styliform hidden under the subgenital plate.
Subfamily PROSCOPIXiE.
CORYNORHYNCHUS Brunner 1890.
Corynorhynchus Brunner Verhandl.
K. K. Zool.Bot.
Gesell. Wien XL p. 101.
Included C. radula hispidus and spinosus Klug and hispidulus and latirostris Brunner.
Of these radula may be considered the type.
Corynorhynchus radula lOug.
1820.
Proscopia radula Ivlug in Nees ab Esenbeck Hors Phys.
Berol.
p. 20 tab.
Ill fig.
4.
Rio de Janeiro Para Brazil.
Rio de Janeiro Brazil.
November.
H. H.
Smith.
One male two females.
One of the female specimens is considerably larger than the other and very materially exceeds Brunncr's measurements.
No other difference however can be detected between it and the other female which fully agrees wdth the abovementioned measurements.
TETANORHYNCHUS Brunner.
1890.
Tetanorhynchus Brunner Verliandl.
K. K. Zool.Bot.
Gesell. Wien XL p. 104.
Included punctatus lOug suhlavis propinquus incertus longirosiris and angustirostris Brunner.
Of these punctatus may be considered the type.
Tetanorhynchus bihastatus n. sp.
Types  d and 9  Corumba Matto Grosso Brazil.
March Highland.
H. H.
Smith.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
8116.
Closely allied to T. humilis GiglioTos from Paraguay  differing 2 Cotypes of this species received from Dr. Borelli have been used for comparison.
in the finer sculpture the longer subgenital plate of the male and the more acute supraanal plate of the female.
Size medium form as usual in the genus surface finely punctate.
Head elongate rostrum in the male but slightly more than half the length of the remainder of the head in the female subecjual to the remainder of the head acuminate apex narrowly rounded carinse distinct eyes elongateovate quite prominent in the male antenna very slightly longer than the rostrum in the male slightly shorter in the female basal joint distinctly shorter than the eye in the male slightly shorter in the female.
Pronotum with the limbs inserted mesad cephahc margin broadly rounded.
Mesonotum and metanotum slightly strigate.
Abdomen with the strigoe absent in the male faintly marked in the female supraanal plate of the male acuminate apex rounded subgenital plate of the male narrowly produced needlelike supraanal plate of the female acuminate apex very narrowly rounded ovipositor valves stout the margins unarmed  subgenital plate of the female broadly arcuate.
Cephalic and median limbs subequal in size shorter than the pronotum.
Caudal femora elongate reaching to the middle of the fifth abdominal segment in the male and of the fourth in the female caudal tibise armed on the margins with fifteen to sixteen spines in the male and twenty in the female.
General color olivegreen in the male washed along the sides of the pronotum and the postocular region of the head with yelloAvish green.
Measurements.
 9 Length of body 63.5 mm.
91 mm.
Length of head 10.5  15  Length of rostrum 4  7.5  Length of pronotum 13.5  19  Length of cephalic femora 9.7  13  Length of caudal femora 23  27.2  Length of caudal tibia 24  31.5  Length of subgenital plate 5  Two specimens of each sex have been examined.
The paratypic female has lost both caudal tibiae the paratypic male however exliibits a spine armament of twenty spines which is rather different from that of the type.
Otherwise the specimens exhibit no striking variation.
Tetanorhynchus smithi n. sp.
Type d  Corumba Matto Grosso Brazil.
March Highland.
H. H.
Smith.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
8117.
Allied to 7 humilis and T. hihastatu but differing in the more robust build and the heavier cephahc aiid median femora.
The form of the subgenital plate closely resembles that of bihastatus.
Size rather large  form more robust than usual in the genus  surface of thorax head and limbs distinctly punctate abdomen very obscurely punctate.
Head acuminate rostrum about half as long as the remainder of the head tapering apex blunt carinate distinct but not sharp eyes elliptical ovate rather prominent antennae about twice as long as the rostrum basal joint but slightly more than half the length of an eye.
Pronotum with a slight median supracoxal dilation cephalic margin roundate shallowly emarginate mesad caudal margin sinuatotruncate.
Mesonotum and metanotum moderately inflated strigse distinct and serratodentate.
Supraanal plate acuminate apex moderately acute proximal half with a shallow median emargination subgenital plate produced needlelike.
Cephalic and median limbs similar the cephalic pair slightly smaller than the median.
Caudal femora elongate reaching to the middle of the fifth abdominal segment  caudal tibiae with thirteen spines on the external and twelve to fourteen on the internal margins.
General color pale applegreen suffused dorsad on the ventral surface of the rostrum and on the entire dorsum of the abdomen wdth olive.
Measurements.
Length of body 71.5 mm.
Length of head 11.5 '' Length of rostrum 4  Length of pronotum 14 ' Length of cephalic femora 11.5  Length of caudal femora 25.5  Length of caudal tibiae 29  Length of subgenital plate 5.2 '' The type is the only specimenof this species seen.
HYBUSA Erickson.

1844.
Hybusa Erickson Wiegman's Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte X Bd.
II p. 298.
Type.
 Proscopia occidentalis Westwood.
Hybusa reedi n. sp.
Type 9  Chile.
E. C.
Reed.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
8118.
Differing from H. occidentalis in the slenderer head and pronotum  the rather longer limbs and narrower abdomen.
Size medium form depressed in the thoracic region surface rugulose.
Head conic the section caudad of the eyes slightly concave the margin not distinctly serrate and but slightly rugulose rostrum lut slightly longer than the eyes tapering apex blunt and broad depressed with very distinct lateral carinae face concave eyes elliptical ovate antennae with the basal joint about onethird the length of the eye.
Pronotum with the limbs inserted caudad of the middle cephalic margin rotundate with a median truncation caudal margin truncate lateral margins slightly constricted cephalad of the insertion of the limbs.
Mesonotum and metanotum fused strongly impressed rugulose dorsad depressed.
Abdomen somewhat compressed carinate subequal narrower than the mesometathorax  supraanal plate sagittate ovipositor valves heavy blunt margins unarmed subgenital plate very slightly rotundatotruncate.
Cephalic and median femora very similar in structure the cephalic pair slightly the larger.
Caudal femora slender reaching nearly to the distal margin of the sixth abdominal segment caudal tibiae bearing twenty to twentyone spines on the external margins twentytwo on the internal margins.
General color gallstoneyellow the eyes dull greenish.
Measurements.
Length of body 57 mm.
Length of head 9 Length of rostrum 2.2 Length of pronotum 8.5 Length of cephalic femora 8.5 Length of caudal femora 22.5 Length of caudal tibiae 22 An immature specimen from Cautin Chile C. S. Reed January 1904 A. N. S.
Phila.
I also refer to this species.
It is a male but fully agrees with the type in all essential characters.
CEPHALOCCEMA Serville.
1839.
Cephaloccema Serville Orthoptdres p. 577.
Type.
 Proscopia sica Serville.
CephaloccEma sica Serville.
1839.
Proscopia sica Serville Orthopteres p. 577 PI.
14 fig.
1.
Southern part of Campos Geraes Brazil.
Sao Paulo Sao Paulo Brazil.
September 1 and 7 1900.
Adolph Hempel.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Two males.
These specimens have the subgenital plate more produced and elongate than in Serville's figure but otherwise they fully agree with this species. 
This condition may be due to the artificial compressing of the abdomen but it is very evident that the width is by no means as great as in the female of occidentalis figured by Brunner Verhandl.
K. K. Zool.Bot.
Gesell. Wien XL taf.
V fig.
10.
Cephalocoema multispinosa Brunner.
1890.
Cephalocoema multispinosa Brunner Verhandl.
K. K. Zool.Bot.
Gesell. Wien XL p. 116.
Porto Alegre Rio Grande do Sul Brazil.
Paraguay.
A. X. S.
Phila.
One female.
The measurements of the limbs of this specimen are slightly smaller than those given by Brunner.
Cephaloccema costulata Burmeister.
18S0.
Cephalocoema costulata Burmeister Abhandl.
Naturforsch.
Gesell. HaUe XV heft I p. 9 taf.
I figs.
57.
Argentina.
Sapucay Paraguay.
Hebard Collection.
One female.
This specimen is equal to Burmeister's and Brunner's maximum measurements and is considerably larger than two individuals of the same sex from Carcarana Argentina in the collection of the Academy.
The Sapucay specimen also has the rostrum longer than in Burmeister's figure and in the other specimens examined but not exceeding the maximum given by Brunner Cephalocoema chapadensis n. sp.
Types cJ and 9  Chapada Matto Grosso Brazil.
July 6 and August .
H.H.Smith.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
8119.
Closely allied to C. costulata but differing in the longer and subequal rostrum the more marked longitudinal strigse and the heavier antennae.
Size medium  surface of the body with distinct longitudinal strigse weaker on the pronotum than elsewhere.
Head elongate tapering rostrum of the male about equal to the length of the head of the female slightly longer than the remainder of the head tapering in the male with a rather blunt apex subequal in the female apex rather blunt and subcruciform when viewed cephalad antennse equal to the rostrum in the male about twothirds the length in the female basal joint slightly less than half the length of the eye eyes subelliptical  face very slightly concave.
Pronotum elongate slightly broader caudad than cephalad limbs inserted very slightly caudad of the micklle cephalic margin rotund atotruncate caudal margin truncate lateral margins very slightly expanded dorsad of the coxce  strigse distinct but not high.
Mesonotum and metanotum little broader than the pronotum strongly strigate.
Abdomen with the strigse very distinct supraanal plate of the male sagittate apex blunt subgenital plate of the male compressed elongate subequal the apex obscurely bilobate supraanal plate narrow produced apex bluntly rounded ovipositor valves strongly compressed margins unarmed subgenital plate of the female apically rotund atotruncate.
Cephalic and median limbs subequal in size and form.
Caudal femora of the male slightly 44 surpassing the apex of the fourth abdominal segment of the female just reaching the apex of the same segment slender caudal tibiae in the male with sixteen to seventeen spines on the external margins and fourteen to fifteen on the internal in the female with twelve on the external and nine to ten on the internal margins.
General color woodbrown the rostrum infuscate ventrad.
Measurements.
Length of body 62 mm.
75.5 mm.
Length of head n.5  15.5 '' Length of rostrum 5  8.5  Length of pronotum 11.5  15.5 '' Length of cephalic femora 7.5  10.5  Length of caudal femora 19  23  Length of subgenital plate 4  A female from Paraguay in the collection of the Academy has also been examined.
It differs from the type of that sex only in the smaller size and slightly greater number of tibial spines.
Cephalocoema flavirostris Blanchard.
1851.
Proscopia flavirostris Blanchard in Gay Hist.
Fis.
Pol.
Chile Zool. VI p. 61.
Province of Coquimbo Chili.
Zemuco Chile. January 1904.
Carlos S.
Reed.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male one female.
As far as can be made out from the poor original description these specimens probably represent this species.
The pronotum and prosternum have a lateral series of yellowish tubercles which is the only character approaching prothorace .... lateribus flavescenti.
Cephalocoema lineata Brunner.
1890.
Cephaloccema lineata Brunner Verhandl.
K. K. Zool.Bot.
Gesell. Wien XL p. 119 taf.
V fig.
11.
Mendoza La Plata Argentina.
Cordova Argentine.
F.
Schulz.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
One male one female.
The female is slightly smaller than the type measured by Brunner.
This species is very close to C. lancea Burmeister.
ASTROMA Charpentier.
1845.
Astroma Charpentier Orthop.
Desc.
et Depict. tab.
IV.
Type.
 Astroma chloropterum Charpentier.
Astroma chloropterum Charpentier.
1845.
Astroma chloropterum Charpentier Orthop.
Desc.
et Depict. tab.
IV.
ChUi.
 Possibly an error for Temuco Cautin Chile.
1904.
683 Colchagua Chile.
December 1903.
Carlos S.
Reed.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Ten males ten females.
Lota Concepcion Chile.
January 1904.
Carlos S.
Reed.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male.
Zemuco Temuco
 Chile.
January 1904.
Carlos S.
Reed.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male one nymph.
Cautin Chile.
January 1904.
Carlos S.
Reed.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male.
Chile.
E. C.
Reed.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
One male one female.
The above series is rather constant in size and general characters.
One female from Colchagua is abnormal in the brevity of the rostrum that process having been injured and reduced to a mere stump.
October 4.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Eighteen persons present.
The Secretary reported that papers under the following titles had leen received on the dates given and accepted for publication since the last meeting ''Comparative Age of the Different Floristic Elements of Eastern North America by John W. Harshberger Ph.D. May 28.
The Fishes of Nantucket by Dr. Benjamin Sharp and Henry W. Fowler May 31.
''The Morphology and letamorphosis of the Alimentary Canal of the Mosquito by M. T. Tliomson June 6.
Transferred to the Entomological Section.
Notes on Orthoptera from Northern and Central Mexico by James A. G. RchnJunc 11.
Notes on Orthoptera from Arizona New Mexico and Colorado by James A. G. Rehn June 29.
Variability and Autonomy of Phataria by Sarah P. Monks July 12.
Notes on a Collection of California Mammals by Witmer Stone July 13.
On a Collection of Birds and Mammals from jIt.
Sanhedrim California by Witmer Stone and A. S. Bunnell July 13.
On certain Rhachiglossate Gastropoda eliminated from the Aquillidffi by H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta July 23.
Studies in the Orthopterous Subfamilies Acrydiinse Tettiginse EumastacinjE and Proscopinse by James A. G. Rehn August 17.
 Three Odd Incidents in AntLife by Adele M. Fielde August 27.
The Structure and Development of the Compound Eye of the HoneyBee by Everett Franklin Phillips August 30.
New Chilopods by Ralph Y. Chamberlin September 2.
Description of New Land Snails of the Japanese Empire by H. A. Pilsbry and Y. Hirase September 6.
The Development and Structure of the Larva of Paragordius bThomas H. Montgomery Jr. September 9.
The Reaction of Ants to Material Vibration by Adele M. Fielde and George H. Parker September 20.
The deaths of the following members were announced Henry Biinton Coxe William S. Magee and Edward K. Tryon Jr.
The deaths of R. A. Philippi and Edward von Martens correspondents were also announced.
Dr. H. a. Pilsbry made a communication on the stages of growth and decline in the land mollusca.
No abstract.
Dr. J. P. Moore spoke of sexual polymorphism in annelids with special reference to the Polychseta.
No abstract.
October 18.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Thirtytwo persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication The Orthoptera of Thomas County Georgia and Leon County Florida by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard October 11.
Annotated List of the Types of Invertebrate Cretaceous Fossils in the Collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by Charles W. Johnson October 14.
Dr. Benjamin Sharp reported his experience during the summer on a trawler from Hull which fished in the North Sea between England and Helgoland and on the cutter which brought the catch to London.
No abstract.
A new Centrifuge.
 Dr. Henry Emerson Wetherill described a compact centrifuge that will do all the work of the ordinary centrifuge with the advantages of being more compact less complex and more easily cleaned.
It does away completely with the heretofore unnecessary gearing required for the revolutions this being accomplished by a double rotating motion produced by the twisting of rawhides or rope.
This toandfro motion gives a more level precipitation and the magnifying bulbous end of the graduated bottle enables a measurement of the smallest amounts of precipitate.
The bottles are tightly corked thus preventing the mixture of the precipitate with the supernatant liquid and serving as a safeguard in revolving infectious material.
The instrument will fit in the vest pocket like a clinical thermometer and when one of the little pocket microscopes now to be had is used with it the work at the bedside is facihtated.
Not only can urine be sedimented but by reversing the tube small amounts of cream in milk of a sufficient quantity can be tested for.
The speed is ample and reduces the time for testing to one minute.
The following were elected members  Michael F. McDonough Charles D. Hart M.D. and Mrs. Charles Roberts.
Frantisek Vidovsky of Prague and A.
A. W. Hubrecht of Utrecht were elected correspondents.
The following were ordered to be printed  THE EARLY DEVELOPMENT OF DINOPHILTJS A STUDY IN CELLLINEAGE.
BY JAMES A NELSON PH.D. University of Pennsylvania.
Contents.
I.
Introductory and Historical 687 II.
Material and Methods 689 III.
Nomenclature 691 IV.
History of the Cleavage to the Formation of the Germ Layers 692 1 Unsegmented Ovum.
2 The Primary Cleavages.
3 The Segregation of the Ectohlast.
4 The Segregation of the Mesoblast.
V. Outline of the P'urther Development 702 VI.
History of the First Quartette 705 1 The Cross and the Intermediate Girdle Cells.
2 The Prototroch.
VII.
Historv of the Second and Third Quartettes 714 1 M X.
2 2a 2h and 2c and the Third Quartette.
VIII.
History of the Fourth and Fifth Quartettes 721 1 The Entomeres.
2 The Mesomeres.
IX.
Axial Relations.
724 X.
The Phylogenetic Relationships of Dinophilus in the Light pi its Early Development 727 It is a pleasure to me to acknowledge my debt of gratitude to Prof. E. G. Conklin of the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania for his kindly advice and constant encouragement in the preparation of this paper.
I wish also to thank Prof. T. H. Montgomery and Dr. J. P. Moore for many valuable suggestions offered dviring the pursuance of the work.
To Prof C 0.
Whitman I am indebted for courtesies extended me at Wood's Hole Massachusetts In finishing the figures and in preparation of the manuscript for publication it gives me pleasure to acknowledge my indebtedness to my wife for invaluable assistance.
I  Introductory and Historical The phylogenetic relationships of Dinophilus have presented a perplexing problem to morphologists since the establisliment of the genus by Oscar Schmidt in 1848.
The various views as to its systematic position may be conveniently classed under three heads 1 those referring Dinophilus to the Turbella ia 2 those referring it to the Nemertina and 3 those cforring it to the Annelida or to some position intermediate between the annelids and the rotifers.
The older writers with the exception of van Beneden referred the genus to the Turbellaria on account of its obvious external resemblances to that group.
Among these authors may be mentioned Schmidt 1848 who however later changed his opinion Max Schultze 1849 Diesing 1874 Mereschkowsky 1879 Korschelt in his first paper on Dinophilus 1882 and Weldon 1886.
In 1861 van Beneden described a species from the coast at Ostende and referred the genus to the nemerteans principally it would seem on account of the character afforded in the possession of a proboscis.
Of recent writers who have inchned to this opinion we have only Verrill 1895 who however does not enter into a discussion of the relationships of the group but only provisionally refers it to the nemerteans.
The first to place Dinophilus among the annelids was Schmarda 1861 who described a species from the coast of South America and assigned it to a place in the Oligochsete family of the Naidse next to the primitive genus jElosoma.
The claims of Dinophilus to a place among the annelids have however been based chiefly on its remarkable resemblance to certain annelid larvse especially those of the polytrochal type.
The first to call attention to this fact was Metschnikoff 1866 who in his paper on Apsilus wrote concerning the systematic position of Dinophilus Dass Dinophilus als eine stationare Annelidenlarva zu betracten ist und mithin zu der Anneliden ebcnso wie Appendicularia zu den Ascidien sich verhalt.
He also notices some resemblances to certain rotifers.
As a curious parallel to this view may be cited Oscar Schmidt's 1882 comparison of the position of Dinophilus among the annelids to that of Axolotl among the true salamanders.
Graff 1882 in his fine monograph on the Turbellaria removes Dinophilus from the Turbellaria and considers it as more properly belonging near the Annelida.
Lang 1884 places Dinophilus in the line which leads through the Archiannelida to the rotifers.
Harmer 1889 also regards Dinophilus as nearly related to the Archiannelida Rcpiachoff 1SS6 considers it a true annelid as does Korschelt 1893 while of the most recent writers Schimkewitsch 1895 considers Dinophilus as affording characters which relate it to both the rotifers and annelids.
These various views have been based almost entirely on anatomical evidence since but three papers deal with the embryology viz.
 Korschelt 1882 Repiachoff 1886 and Schmikevdtsch 1895.
Korschelt studied the living egg and described the manner in which the eggs were laid the early stages of the cleavage an epibolic gastrulation and observed that at hatching the young Dinophilus closely resembles the adult.
Repiachoff's paper is more complete as regards the embryology giving numerous figures of the cleavage and sections of the gastrula.
Two important discoveries are to be attributed to this investigator viz.
 That the mesoderm arises from a pair of mesoblast cells situated posterior to the blastopore and that a considerable portion of the ectoderm of the adult arises from a pair of large cells situated at the posterior end of the embryo and derived from the largest cell of the 4cell stage.
Schimkewitsch follows along the same lines as Repiachoff and does little more than confirm the latter's results though the figures given by Schimkewitsch are much in advance of those given by RepiachofT.
These authors Korschelt Repiachoff and Schimkewitsch attempted to compare the cleavage of the Dinophilus ovum wdth that of the rotifers and consequently failed to properly interpret it.
In view of the fact that so little is at present known concerning the early development of this form the evidence as to its relationships being principally anatomical it has seemed highly desirable to study the embryolog thoroughly from the earliest cleavage on.
The present paper is concerned almost wholly with the celllineage.
This has been done for two reasons  first because such a careful study of the cleavage as is involved in a study of the celllineage gives a firm and secure basis for work on the later development and second because the study of the celllineage of mollusks and annelids has brought to light such striking resemblances that there can scarcely be any doubt that they are of phylogenetic significance.
II.
 Material and Methods.
The species of Dinophilus with which this paper is concerned has not been determined with certainty.
Both sexes correspond closely to the description given by Korschelt 1882 for the species found by him in aquaria at Freiburg and named by him Dinophilus apatris.
Repiachoff 1886 has supposed that this species is identical with D. gyrociliatus 0.
Schmidt.
The individuals of the species found in the aquaria at the Universit of Pennsylvania agree with D. apatris and differ from D. gyrociliatus in lacking the last or perianal circle of cilia and also appear to differ from D. gyrociliatus in another important respect i.e. in having no segmental organs.
E. Meyer 1887 figured for the females of D. gyrociliatus five pairs of nephridia of the type found in annelid larvae protoncphriclia.
Careful study of fixed and living material has thus far afforded me no CA'idcnce whatever of nephridia of any sort.
The ova which were studied in the preparation of this paper were collected from the seawater aquaria in the vivarium of the University of Pennsylvania during the months of January to May 1902.
The ova arc laid in gelatinous capsules as described by Korschelt for D. apatris each capsule containing three to seven ova of two sizes the smaller about onethird the diameter of the larger.
The smaller ova give rise to the minute and degenerate males while the larger ova give rise to the female individuals.
The number of the large female ova exceeds that of the male.
In fifty capsules 214 ova were counted of which number 79 were male ova and 135 female.
These latter have been the object of my investigation the small size ca.
30 micra in diameter and smaller number of the male ova rendering them much less favorable for study.
The capsules were found attached to the various seaweeds in the aquaria and particularly to the Ulva.
A quantity of the seaweed was taken from the tanks in which the animals were found to be most abundant and squeezed over a large watch crystal.
The eggs thus washed out from their capsules together with much vegetable debris soon settled to the bottom of the watch crystal from which they were picked out under a lens by means of a finepointed pipette and transferred to a small vessel.
The vessel found most useful for this purpose was made from the hemispherical bottom of a small testtube cemented to a slide.
The ova collected in this manner proved to be in all stages of development from the unsegmented ovum to an embryo ready to escape.
The ova were in all cases killed Avith Ivleinenberg's stronger picrosulphuric fluid and after washing in 70 per cent alcohol were stained with Conklin's 1902 picrohsematoxylin.
This method of fixing and staining has proved satisfactory with so many forms that it was considered advisable in view of the scarcity of the material not to experiment further.
The ova were then dehydrated cleared in cedar oil or xylol and mounted in balsam under covers supported by thin glass feet thus providing a space in which the eggs may be rolled about by displacing the cover glass.
It has been noted by several observers that Dijwphilus practically disappears at the approach of warm weather and this fact was found to be true in this case also.
This is interpreted by Korschelt to mean simply that the period of sexual activity has come to an end.
However species of Dinophilus have been found at Wood's Hole Massachusetts during the summer months by Verrill 1895 and by Miss Moore 1899 so that it would appear that some few individuals lived over the summer.
The animals found in the aquaria were probably imported on seaweed gathered at Wood's Hole Massachusetts or at Sea Isle N. J. and owing to the favorable conditions afforded by the aquaria they multiplied and became abundant During the past three seasons however Dinophilus has not become abundant until late in the autumn or in the early winter.
The largest number of ova were gathered in January and February the number diminishing from that time until by May their nmnber was so small that it did not pay to collect them.
Diuing the past three years the animals have nearly all disappeared by the middle of June.
Fig.
I.
A and B diagrams of ova with circumscribed loxodromic curves ab egg axis.
Copied from Mead 1897.
III.
 Nomenclature.
The nomenclature adopted in this paper is that modification of Wilson's system 1892 used by Conklin 1897 with the further modification adopted by Child 1900 in prefixing coefficients to the macromeres as well as to the micromeres.
The macromeres are designated by capitals the micromeres by small letters.
WTien the cleavage plane of two cells approximates the direction of the loxodromic curve shown in text fig.
I A it is dexiotropic  when it approximates the direction of that shown in text fig.
I B it is leiotropic.
The number of the quartette is indicated by a coefficient.
Thus la is the member of the first quartette located in the A quadrant.
The product of a division which lies toward the animal pole receives the exponent 1 that toward the vegetal pole the exponent 2.
Thus la lies nearer the animal pole than la.
If the cleavage is meridional the right cell as seen by an imaginary observer located at the animal pole receives the larger exponent.
Thus la lies to the right of la.
The macromercs receive a coefficient corresponding to the number of the quartette to which they last contributed.
Thus 4A last gave rise to 4a.
When cells arise whose origin and fate are similar to those of annelids or mollusks which have already received special names as for example the trochoblasts or the intermediate girdle cells I have made use of these names.
I do not however wish to imply that the cells arc necessarily homologous with those to which these names were first applied.
The animal pole is that point at which the polar bodies are given off the point opposite is the vegetal pole.
IV.
 History of the Cleavage.
1 Unsegmented Ovum.
JIy observations on the unsegmented ovum have unfortunately been confined entirely to fixed and stained material.
Since in each lot of material all stages were found from the unsegmented ovimi to the larva about to hatch a considerable amount of time and labor would have been involved and many ova lost in selecting for study the few which were still in an unsegmented condition.
The ova are approximately spherical and not elongated in one dimension as Korschelt describes them in D. apatris.
JIeasurements of the diameters of six unsegmented eggs were respectively 108 micra 100 micra 90 micra 96 micra 92 micra and 100 micra giving as the average diameter of the egg 97.66 micra.
These measurements nearly approach those given by Korschelt for D. apatris i.e. Ill micra x 92 micra.
Closely smTOunding the ovum is a delicate wrinkled vitelline membrane.
The protoplasm in the living ovum is nearly opacjue this opacity being due to the presence of minute deutoplasmic spheres uniformly distributed throughout the cytoplasm.
These deutoplasmic spheres give to the stained and mounted ova a darkly granular appearance which in many cases makes both mitotic figures and cell outlines difficult to distinguish.
Fig.
1 shows the ovum just after the extrusion of the second polar body.
The latter is spherical in shape and about half as large as the first polar body which is somewhat ovoid.
In the first polar body a faint nucleus can be made out but none in the See Plates XLIIIXLVIII.
second.
Neither of them have been seen to divide.
The polar bodies in Dinophilus as in all animals mark the animal pole but are however not a reliable means of orienting the later stages since through some cause they tend to become displaced and are ultimately taken into the cells over which they happen to lie.
In fig.
8 for example the first polar body is already sinking into the cell Ic while the second is still free.
In fig.
1 beneath the polar bodies lies the female pronucleus formed of four nuclear vesicles each vesicle resembling a small nucleus in appearance having a distinct bounding membrane and containing small granules of chromatin of varying sizes.
Below the vesicles and contaimng them as in a cup is a large hemispherical aster.
Somewhat below and to the right of the center of the ovum lies the male pronucleus with its accompanying aster which lies on the vegetal pole side of the nucleus.
The stage next studied is represented in fig.
2 where the two pronuclei are seen to have come together.
The male pronucleus is probably the large bilobed vesicle which lies on the side of the nucleus toward the vegetal pole the female pronucleus is probably represented by the eight smaller vesicles on the other side.
The ovum is in the early prophase of division a large and deeply staining aster being on each side of the nucleus though no spindle fibres can yet be distinguished.
2 Primary Cleavages.
14 Cells.
The spindle for the first cleavage is shown in fig.
3.
The cell body has elongated and the spindle is in the anaphase while the unequal character of this cleavage is clearly indicated by the inequality in the diameter of the two asters as well as by the eccentric position of the spindle.
The spindle is inclined at a slight angle to the horizontal plane the end which is to form the smaller cell being the lower.
The explanation of this is not clear possibly the spindle was oscillating or perhaps the position of the spindle may have something to do with the beginning of spiral cleavage.
Unfortunately this is the only ovum which I have seen in which the spindle is in either metaphase or anaphase so that it is not absolutely certain that this oblique position is normal.
The plane of this division passes through the animal pole but lies to one side of the pole opposite.
The products of this division fig.
4 are very unequal the cell CD greatly exceeding AB in size.
Immediately after division both cells prepare to divide again but the two halves of the second cleavage are not simultaneous CD divid694 Oct. ing much in advance of AB as fig.
5 shows.
As seen in the figme the spindle in CD has reached the late anaphase the chromosomes lying close to the centrosomes while a double row of microsomes has appeared on the spindle fibres.
On the other hand in AB the spindle has only just reached the metaphasc.
The division of AB is nearly equal A being slightly the larger product while the division of CD is highly unequal.
The spindles for both divisions arc inclined in a leiotropic direction as is especially well shown by the division of AB in fig.
6 in which the left pole of the spindle is much higher than the right.
The four cells formed by the second cleavage all differ in size figs.
6 and 7 text fig.
II A and B while D is relatively colossal C B and A are more nearly alike.
Of these C is the largest A slightly smaller than C while B is the smallest of all.
The enormous size of D can be A B Fig.
II.
A 4cell stage from animal pole B. same from right side.
appreciated only when the 4cell stage is viewed from the side as shown in text fig.
II B.
The size relation of the four cells A B C and D appears to be somewhat unusual.
In all Annelida and Mollusca investigated which have imequal cleavage the left posterior blastomere D is the largest one of the 4cell stage except in the case of Aplysia Blochmann 1883 Carazzi 1900 and the Pteropoda thecosoniata Fol 1875.
A and B are usually equal while C is more or less intermediate between B. and D. Among the Lamcllibranchia there appear to exist cases parallel to that of Dinophilus.
An examination of the figures given for Cyclas Stauffacher 1893 for Unio Lillic 1895 and for Dreissensia Meisenheimer 1901 seems to indicate that in these forms B is the smallest of the four cells while it is fairly evident that C exceeds A in size although I find no precise statement of these facts in the text of the papers mentioned above.
In all these forms D is relatively enormous.
In the 4cell stage of the Dinophilus ovum but one polar furrow is usually present that at the animal pole formed by the junction of A and C. This furrow is very long and turns to the right when seen in the second cleavage plane.
At the vegetal pole all four cells meet at a point figs.
6 and 7 text fig.
II A and B.
The condition where a polar furrow exists at the animal pole is also found in the Lamellibranchs mentioned alone  in these however the furrow is formed by the junction of B and D. The phenomenon of a long polar furrow existing at the animal pole in Unio is explained by Lillie 1895 as being due to the fact that the greater mass of the first blastomeres is ectodermal.
This explanation fits the case of Unio very well since the blastomere D which contains the greatest mass of ectoderm takes part in the formation of the polar furrow but does not explain the situation in Dinophilus where D is entirely excluded from the polar furrow.
This condition is probably due to two factors 1 the extreme obliquity of the second cleavage spindles and 2 to the relatively small size of B.
The inclination of the spindles in AB and CD cause A and C to lie above B and D and so meet in a long cross furrow.
Were B as large as either A or C it would meet D in a furrow at the vegetal pole but since its mass is so much less than that of the other cells it just touches D at the vegetal pole.
The somewhat complex relation of the first and second cleavage planes to the embryonic axis will be discussed in a later section for the purpose of convenience in description however the blastomeres A and B will be considered as anterior C and D as posterior.
3 Segregation of EctoUast.
426 cells.
Immediately after the second cleavage of the ovum the nuclei of the blastomeres resume mitotic activity.
In fig.
6 asters are seen in all four cells while between A and C there are still the remains of spindle fibres to be seen.
In D the asters have assumed nearly their definitive position indicating where the ends of the dexiotropic spindle are to lie.
At this time there comes to light a curious and striking feature of the cleavage of the Dinophilus egg mentioned by Lang 1884 as occurring in Discocoelis by Lillie for Unio 1895 and by Jennings for Asplanchna 1896 also by Child 1900 as occurring occasionally in Arenicola at the third cleavage.
This peculiarity consists in the fact that the macromeres never divide simultaneously but always successively and in a regular and invariable order.
This order is the same as that of Unio and Arenicola i.e. D C A B while that of Asplanchna is D C B A.
This order of division is maintained by the macromeres through five successive cleavages and is more or less perfectlj retained by their descendants.
This succession is well shown in the ovum represented in fig.
8 where the nuclei of the cells ID IC Id and Ic are in the prophase of the next division while a bundle of spindle fibres still connects the nuclei of lA and la and the micromere 11 is scarcely yet cut off from IB.
This sequence in the division of the macromeres is clearly correlated with the difference in the sizes of A B C and D since it has already been pointed out that in relative size the macromeres follow one another in the order D C A B which is also the order of their division.
It is evident that this is only a special instance of a widespread class of phenomena discussed by Kofoid 1894 who points out that in many ova the larger blastomeres i.e. those containing a greater amount of yolk or rather more cytoplasm tend to divide more rapidly than do the smaller ones.
This as Kofoid shows is in contradiction to Balfour 1880 who formulated a law which supposes yolk to retard the cleavage.
Kofoid ingeniously explains the contradiction ly suggesting that difference in the rapidity of cleavage is apparently correlated with the greater or less absolute amount of protoplasm and that the amount of protoplasm in turn may be increased through the appropriation of yolk and the ratio of division may be thus indirectly hastened.
In Dinophilus however while it seems tolerably plain that the difference in the time of division of the macromeres is related to their difference in size yet the latter fact at first sight appears scarcely adequate to explain the great delay in the divisions of B as compared with those of A since between these two blastomeres the difference in size is comparatively slight.
On the other hand it must be remembered that since the macromeres have different rates of division the gap between the time of division of the four blastomeres may be considerably widened as the cleavage progresses in other words A may start with but a slight lead over B yet it is through its more rapid rate of division enabled to increase that lead in subsequent divisions.
This difference in the rates of division of the four quadrants will become obvious by reference to the table of celllineage at the back of the iaper.
The spindles for the third cleavage are inclined strongly to the right and the daughter cells the first quartette of ectomeres when first formed lie in the furrow between the macromeres.
The diameter of these cells as figs.
8 and 9 show is about twothirds of that of the macromeres from which they arose.
They are not however all of the same size the two posterior micromeres Id and Ic being equal in size and larger than the anterior pair la and lb which also arc equal.
This size relation between the members of the first quartette occurs in Nereis Wilson 1892 Amphitrite and Clymenella Mead 1897 in Arenicola Child 1900 and as the figures appear to indicate in Capitella Eisig 1898 although Eisig states p. 7 that the micromeres are unter sich aber annaherend glcich grosscn Zcllen.
Among the Mollusca this size relation seems not to appear at all.
The next cleavage the fourth is inaugurated by the second division of ID.
In fig.
8 this macromere is seen to be already in the prophase of division and while the other cells in the ovum are preparing for division ID separates by a leiotropic division into the relatively enormous cell 2d and the macromere 2D which has now been reduced to the size of its fellows figs.
9 and 10.
2d the first somatoblast of von Wistinghausen 1891 which I shall label X following Goette and most recent writers on the celllineage of annelids lies in the second cleavage furrow slightly to the left of the midline.
This cell is a most valuable aid to orientation owing to its large size and fixed position.
In this last division the macromere 2D the smaller division product becomes displaced being crowded downwards so as to be almost directly below lA figs.
9 and 10.
A similar displacement of 2D occurs also in Unto Lillie 1895 Dreissensia Meisenheimer 1901 Capitella Eisig 1898 and probably whenever the cell 2d greatly exceeds in size its parent macromere.
2D subsequently returns to the level of the other macromeres.
At about the time 2d is produced the first quartette undergoes a rotation in an anticlockwise direction so that each micromere comes to lie exactly over the macromere from which it arose cf.
figs.
8 and 10.
This rotation is undoubtedly brought about by the division of ID to form 2d the latter cell being pushed backward and upward in a leiotropic direction.
In Crepidula Conklin 1897 Arenicola Child 1900 and in other forms a similar rotation is brought about through the formation of the cells of the second quartette.
The micromeres Id and Ic next divide the spindles being inclined in a leiotropic direction.
Through these divisions there are budded off from Id and Ic on their peripheral sides small cells of equal size Idand Ic kP being formed first figs.
9 and 10.
These cells though formed by a truly spiral division come to lie laterally to their parent cells and overhung by them figs.
10 11 and 12.
A little later la and lb follow in a similar division the cells la and Ib being equal in size and somewhat smaller than kP and Ic and come to lie in the furrow below the micromeres la and 11 and to the right of them.
These 45 lastformed cells are minute and were at first difficult to detect being overhung by their parent cells.
The four cells Id Ic la and Ib correspond both in origin and subsequent fate to the  trochoblasts  of annelids and to the turret cells of mollusks and will be termed trochoblasts since the cleavage resembles that of the annelids rather than that of the mollusks.
While the trochoblasts are forming lA and IC are in division figs.
11 and 12 giving rise to two other members of the second quartette.
The division of the two macromeres is nearly simultaneous though C is slightly in advance.
The two micromeres 2c and 2a are nearly equal in size to the two anterior cells of the first quartette.
Coincident with the division of lA and IC is the division of X 2d the first step in the fourth cleavage figs.
11 12 and 13.
X buds off a cell of about a third of its own diameter low down on the right side x figs.
12 and 13.
Closely following the formation of x is the leiotropic division of IB to form 2b the last member of the second quartette and the dexiotropic division of 2D to form the first member of the third quartette 3d figs.
13 and 16.
Thus the macromere of the D quadrant has now obtained a lead of one division over the macromere of the B quadrant and this lead is maintained as far as the formation of the fifth quartette.
3b is the smallest member of the second quartette while 3d will prove to be the largest member of the third.
Soon after 3d the other members of the third quartette appear one by one 3c and 3a equal in size and last 3b the smallest of the four which does not appear until after the formation of the mesoblast cell 4d figs.
13 to 20.
Meanwhile divisions arc occurring in the first and second quartettes.
The divisions of the former are dexiotropic and concern the four larger cells only.
The left products are nearly alike in size  smaller than the right products in the posterior quadrants nearly equal to them in the anterior.
There is thus formed a flat cap of eight cells fig 14 four of which lie radially and four interradially  the former la Ib Ic Id correspond in origin and very probably in fate to the intermediate girdle cells of Nereis Wilson 1892 and they will hereafter be called such.
The four remaining cells following the same terminology will be called stem cells.
While these last divisions are in progress and the third quartette forming 2a and 2c each buds off a small cell at its apex figs.
15 and 16 2a and 2c.
According to the rule of alteinating cleavage this division should be leiotropic in fact it is nearly equatorial though the division of 2b which occurs later is strongly dexiotropic.
The ovum represented in figs.
14 15 and 16 is the only one seen which shows this division in progress.
However the subsequent position of the cells 2a and 2c shows this division to be very nearly an equatorial one though the next division of the cells 2a and 2c2 is strongly leiotropic figs.
26 and 27.
The cells 2a and 2c lie above their parent cells and in contact with the stem and intermediate girdle cells at the same level with the trochoblasts.
In consideration of their origin and subsequent fate they will be given the name  secondary trochoblasts which is given by Mead 1897 to cells of similar origin and fate in Amphitrite and Clymenella.
During these last divisions X has given rise to a cell on its left side x in size similar to x and nearly opposite that cell but at a somewhat higher level figs.
16 and 18 and fig.
42.
At the same time x is also undergoing division giving off a cell x at its lower side.
This is the socalled anal cell Mead 1897.
4 Segregation of Mesoblast.
In the ovum represented in figs.
15 16 and 17 a large spindle is seen in 3D.
In fig.
IS the spindle is in the anaphase and the cell body has elongated clearly indicating by the unequal size of its lobes the very unequal character of the division products.
The latter are shown in fig.
24 the division having been completed.
The posterior larger product is 4d the chief mesoderm cell of mollusks and polychsetous annelids.
According to the law of alternating cleavage the spindle for this division should be leiotropic in fact it is dexiotropic.
This reversal in direction of the spindle can be accounted for partly by the crowding downward of 4d during the process of its formation.
In the ovum represented in fig.
16 the spindle in 3B is nearly horizontal while in that represented in fig.
18 it is inclined almost 40 to the horizontal plane.
This inclination is clearly brought about by the great size of both 4d and X. Abutting as it does against X 4d is prevented from attaining the level of 4D and thus the left end of the spindle comes to be the lower.
Why the spindle should not be inclined leiotropically at first is not clear.
The position of 4d in front of and below X and slightly to the left of the midline is almost precisely that of 4d in Nereis Wilson 1892 where the conditions concerned in its formation are very similar to those prevailing in Dinophilus.
4D is now reduced to about half the size of its fellows.
This great reduction in size of the macromere 4D is not known among the annelids but among mollusks it is a fairly common condition e.g. Umbrella Heymons 1893 Unio Lillie 1895 Ischnochiton Heath 1899 Dreissensia Meisenheimer 1901 Trochus Robert 1903.
With the formation of 4d and 3b the segregation of the germ layers now consists of 29 cells distributed as follows   First quartette 12 cells.
Ectoblast  Second quartette 8   Third quartette '.
4  Mesoblast .
Fourth quartette 4d 1  Entoblast .
Entomeres.
4  Total 29  Thus in Dinophilus another example is already added to a long list of forms in which the ectoblast arises from the first three quartettes of micromeres the mesoblast from the left posterior cell of the fourth quartette and the entoblast from the remaining cells.
To this mode of origin of the germ layers apparently the cephalopods alone form an exception.
Among the annelids it is at present known to obtain A B Fig.
Ill illustrating the reduction of the cleavage cavity.
A optical section of stage of about 54 cells B 72 cells.
Cleavage cavity stippled.
only in the groups of the Polychaeta and Echiuridce.
The fine paper of Eisig 1898 on Capitella seems to indicate that this manner of derivation of the germ layers does not extend to the Capitellidse since in Capitella Eisig derives the permanent mesoblast coelomesoblast from cells of the third quartette 3c and 3d while 4d gives rise to larval or secondary mesoblast paedomesoblast and ectoderm.
However in view of the probable tendency of the ova of Capitella to abnormal development it is I think permissible to doubt these somewhat surprising results until they are verified in the same or some allied form.
These results seem all the more surprising in view of the great resemblance which in other respects the cleavage bears to that of the Polychaeta Among the Echiuridse Torrey 1902 1903 has found that Thalassema in its cleavage and in its mode of origin of the germ layers agrees closely with the Polychseta.
1904.
701 As compared with the Polychaeta the origin of the mesoblast cell 4D in Dinophihis occurs very early.
In fact the segregation of the three germ layers is completed at almost the same instant since while 3D is dividing to form 4d 2B is also dividing to form 3b If as Mead 1897 urges the mesoblast belongs to the ideal 64ceU stage then 4d should typically arise only after the 32cell stage.
As a matter of fact it A  B Fig.
IV A B C D E diagrams of embryos of Dinophilus at different stages illustrating the migration of the ectoderm during the closure of the blastopore.
The ova are drami as seen from the right side.
The approximate limit of the first quartette is shown by a dotted line.
The entoderm uncovered by ectoderm is stippled.
From camera sketches.
does so arise in all the Polychaeta whose early development has been investigated and also in Thalassema Torrey 1902 1903.
On the other hand in Capitella 4d belongs to the 29cell stage while among the Mollusc a are several forms in which 4d is segregated before the 32cell stage e.g. Neritina Blochmann 1882 Crepidula Conklin 1897 Physa Wierzejski 1897.
At the other end of the series stands Ischnochiton Heath 1899 in which the formation of 4cl is delayed until the 72cell stage.
Yet in spite of these modifications which are plainly of a coenogenetic nature it is a remarkable fact as Heath 1898 has pointed out that the definitive mesoblast preserves its origin from 3D.
V.  Outline of the Further Development.
In order to make the histories of the quartettes more intelligible it is desirable to give a brief account of the later history of Dinophilus up to the time of hatching.
My observations in regard to the main points agree essentially with the account given by Schimkewitsch 1895 for the White Sea form.
After the segregation of the germ layers i.e. at the 29cell stage a cleavage cavity of considerable size has been formed and this cleavage cavity persists up to a stage of about 54 cells when it has reached its maximum size text fig.
Ill A.
The ovum is now roughly spherical in outline.
Very soon however the ectoderm cells which roof the cleavage cavity spread out and flatten dowm thus greatly reducing it and finally causing it to be obliterated completely text fig.
IV A and B.
This flattening of the cap of ectoderm produces a pronounced change in the contour of the embryo which is now decidedly elongated at right angles to the egg axis i.e. in an anteropostcrior direction and this elongation becomes more pronounced as development progresses.
The ectodermal cap  that is all of the ectoderm exclusive of the 2d group  now moves over the entoderm in a forward direction.
The various stages of this movement are illustrated in text fig.
IV A B C and D. In the embryo A the Ijoundary of the first quartette marked by a dotted line lies in a plane nearly parallel to the long axis of the embryo the apical rosette and the vegetal pole are still nearly opposite one another.
In the embryo B the forward movement of the ectodermal cap can plainly be seen to have begun.
Embryos C D and E show the further movements leading to the closure of the blastopore which brings the first quartette into a position at the anterior end of the embryo after having rotated through an angle of about 80 degrees.
That part of the ectoderm which formerly marked the am'mal pole the apical rosette or its derivatives is now just dorsal to the anterior pole of the embryo while the boundary of the first quartette lies in a plane almost at right angles to the long axis of the embryo.
This forward movement of the ectoderm is brought about by the mitotic activity of the cells of the 2d group dorsal to X  X viz. x' xx' xx' etc. and probably also of cells derivetl from the intermediate girdle cell of the D quadrant.
IMead 1897 Treadwell 1901 and Torrey 1903 have shown that in the annelids Am'phitrite Podarke and Thalassema respectively cells from this region wander out through the dorsal gap of the prototroch and contribute to the dorsal ectoderm of the trochophore.
The thinness of the dorsal ectoderm of the Dinophilus embryo after the closure of the blastopore bears witness to the great mitotic activity in this region compare figs.
54 and 56 and fig.
58.
While this forward movement is taking place the ectoderm is increasing in lateral extent as comparison of the embryos illustrated in text fig.
IV readily shows.
At the same time on the ventral side cells of the ventral plate have covered over the mesomeres so that now the entoblast is completely enclosed with the exception of a small area at the vegetal pole the blastopore.
This soon closes the ectodermal cells fusing so smoothly as to leave no visible trace of their union.
Meanwhile the entodermal cells have undergone a change in that their lower or vegetal pole ends have become progressively smaller as the blastopore closes while their upper or animal pole ends have become correspondingly larger.
During this change in shape of the entomeres their nuclei recede from the surface and move inward figs.
5356.
The stomodseum appears as a shallow depression of the ectoderm at the point where the blastopore closed fig.
58.
The ventral plate now begins to grow forward very rapidly pushing the stomodseum before it until the latter reaches a subterminal position the position of the definitive mouth fig.
59 st..
The stomodaeal invagination now deepens from a shallow depression to a fingerlike inpushing directed somewhat backward.
In fig.
59 the posterior wall of the stomodseum is seen to have thickened  this mass of cells pro.
is the rudiment of the proboscis.
In fig.
60 this organ pro.
has assumed essentially its definitive structure and relations.
From the stomodseal invagination is formed all of the alimentary canal anterior to the stomach including the Vormagen or proventriculus.
While these changes are taking place the entodermal cells have been slowly dividing and have arranged themselves about a centrally situated cleft the rudiment of the lumen of the future stomach and intestine fig.
59 sto.l..
As the development progresses the entodermal cells assume the arrangement and appearance of an epithelium while at the same time the lumen of the future stomach increases in extent.
In fig.
60 the entoderm cells are now seen to form a cuboid al epithelium while the lumen of the stomach is a long and narrow cleft extending obliquely downward and forward.
From the posterior end of the stomach projects a short diverticuhim the rudiment of the intestine int.
1..
The proctodseum appears at the time that the stomodseum has assumed its final position as a simple thickening of the ectoderm at the posterior end of the body fig.
59 pr..
At a later stage a small depression appears in this thickening fig.
60 pr..
The proctodseum probably forms only the terminal portion of the intestine or anus.
Fusion of the proctodseum and stomodseum with the entodermal portion of the alimentary tract does not take place until very shortly before hatching.
The rudiment of the brain appears early.
Just after the blastopore has closed the ectoderm at the anterior end of the embryo is thicker than elsewhere presenting the appearance shown in optical section in fig.
58.
The cells of this region multiply rapidly and the ectoderm here soon becomes manylayered fig.
59.
At a later period figs.
60 and 61 a transverse band of nerve fibres br.com.
is seen below and in contact with the ectoderm at this point while the nuclei of the deeper layers have become very numerous.
The latter undoubtedly constitute the nuclei of the ganglion cells while the band of nerve fibres constitutes the commissure connecting the lateral lobes of the brain of the adult.
The brain is now essentially similar to that of the adult which remains throughout life in contact with the ectoderm of the head.
The further changes before hatching consist principall in the elongation of the body and the formation of somites.
The rapid growth of the ventral plate causes the embryo to bend strongly toard the dorsal side as is shown in fig.
60 though here the flexure is not nearl so great as it becomes at a still later period.
This rapid growth of the ventral ectoderm is apparently not compensated for by a corresponding growth of the dorsal ectoderm until shortly before hatching.
The head is separated from the trunk by a constriction at a stage corresponding to that illustrated in fig.
59 that is as soon as the stomodseum has taken up its final position at the anterior end of the embryo.
The trunk segments do not appear until the body begins to elongate when the constrictions which mark them off appear successively from in front backward.
In the embryo shown in horizontal section in fig.
61 one trunk segment the first is clearly shown while two more are indicated posterior to this one.
VI.
 History of the First Quartette.
1 The Cross and the Intermediate Girdle Cells.
At the time of the formation of the mesoblast cell 4d the first quartette consists of twelve cells  four stem cells four intermediate girdle cells and four trochoblasts fig.
14.
According to the ideal scheme the trochoblasts should by this time have divided once but their rate of division is very greatly retarded obviously in correlation with the comparatively late period at which they become functional.
The stem cells are the next to divide.
Even before 4d is formed the posterior stem cells Id and Ic are preparing for a leiotropic cleavage fig.
14 These divide and la and Ib soon follow the upper left products resulting from the division are four small cells of equal size forming a quatrefoil at the animal pole the ''rosette of Nereis Wilson 1892 and other annelids fig.
20.
While the rosette is forming the intermediate girdle cells arc also engaged in a leiotropic division which is unequal in all save the D quadrant fig.
20.
In the A B and C quadrants the right and peripheral product is a small cell to which in consideration of its origin and probable fate has been given the name accessory trochoblast a term applied by Heath 1899 to cells of Ischnochiton of similar origin and fate.
While the division of the stem cells and intermediate girdle cells is in progress the trochoblasts also divide figs.
20 21 22 and 29.
Ic and Id usually divide at nearly the same time although in fig.
14 Ic is the only trochoblast showing a spindle la follows more or less closely on Idand Ic' while lbis always delayed.
The division is meridional in the posterior trochoblasts  in the anterior pair the plane of division although very nearly meridional is nevertheless inclined sufficiently to indicate a dexiotropic cleavage fig.
29.
Returning to the stem cells the posterior pair of these are found to be again in mitotic activity their spindles having reached the metaphasc before the last division of Ib is fully completed fig.
20.
These spindles are not spiral but truly radial in position.
Their central ends lie at a higher level than their peripheral ends.
This division marks the beginning of bilateral cleavages in the first quartette though these do not appear in the intermediate girdle cells.
In fig.
20 the symmetrical position of the spindles in Ic and Id is obscured owing to the clockwise rotation of the first quartette caused by the formation of x in a dexiotropic direction.
In fig.
25 may be seen the products of this division of these the peripheral products are slightly the larger and are overlapped by the central products.
706 Oct. owing to the oblique position of the spindle.
Meanwhile the first quartette has rotated in an anticlockwise direction being thus restored to its original position.
Next laand Ib divide the spindles in their cells being also truly radial with the central ends the higher.
The cell pattern produced by these divisions is similar to that first found by Wilson 1892 in Nereis Polymnia Spio and Aricia and called by him the cross.
The characteristic feature of the cross is the radial divisions of the stem cells.
This as has just been described is also the case in Dinophilus but the cell pattern is marred by the belated division of Ib which does not occur until the basal cells of the posterior arms of the cross are again in division fig.
30.
The cross is formed also in Amphitrite Clijmenella and Lepidonotus Mead A B I'h V A the cross of Nereis copied from Wilson 1S92 B diagram of the cross of Dinophihis.
The four cjuadrants are represented as having divided simultaneously.
1897 Capitella Eisig 1898 Arenicola and Sternaspis Child 1900 and Podarke Treadwell 1901.
In Podarke the spindles are slightly dexiotropic and in Chcetopterus Mead 1897 they are so much so that the cross is not formed at all.
In Dinophilus the spindles are truly radial no trace of the spiral tjqoe having been observed.
The comparison of the Dinophilus cross and that of the polychatous annelid Nei'eis will be made clear by reference to text fig.
V A. and B.
The radial spindles forming the cross mark the appearance of bilateral cleavage in the first quartette.
Not only is the cross in itself a symmetrical structure but it is bilaterally symmetrical with respect to the median plane of the embryo and this is as Wilson pointed out in Nereis 1892 an adult bilaterality foreshadowed long before bilateral divisions begin in the arrangement of the cells.
In other words the adult bilaterality is expressed in the arrangement of the four cells la Ib Ic' and Id brought about through spiral cleavages and in fact foreshadowed in the 8cell stage.
These facts have all been shown to be true for all the forms in which a cross occurs and need not be dwelt upon here.
While the anterior stem cells are dividing to form the anterior arms of the cross new spindles appear in the intermediate girdle cells la and lc'2 figs.
25 26 and 27.
These cells then give rise at their peripheral margins to tiny cells with a deeply staining nucleus figs.
30 31 and 32.
The direction of these divisions is somewhat uncertain but judging by the position of the smaller products it is clexiotropic in la and leiotropic in IcLater Ib' gives rise to a similar cell figs.
37 and 41.
This division is unmistakably dexiotropie.
It is of interest to note that in Amphitrite Iead 1897 and Are7iicola Child 1900 these same cells should also be small and provided with a densely staining nucleus.
In Thalassema Torrcy 1902 1903 these cells are truly rudimentary and it seems quite probable that such is the case in Dinophilus also judging from their minuteness and staining reactions.
Closely following the division of Ibto form the right anterior cross arm indeed almost simultaneous with this division is that of the posterior basal cells of the cross.
The plane of this division is meridional as is also the case in the annelid cross but differs from the latter in that the division is an asymmetrical one since the left product of the left posterior basal cell is very much smaller than the right product Avhile the products of the right posterior basal cell are equal figs.
30 and 37.
This curious divergence from the annelid type I am at present unable to explain.
Possibly a further study of the cleavage and of the history of the individual cells of the cross might offer a solution of the problem.
Closely following the divisions of the posterior basal cells comes the division of the posterior terminal cells.
The spindles for this division are meridional and the upper and central products of this division are minute cells which lie above their parent cells as shown in figs.
37 38 and 39.
These correspond in origin to the  nephroblasts which in Nereis Wilson 1892 form the head kidney or possibly slime glands and which in Amphitrite Mead 1897 give rise to the large mucous glands of the umbrella of the trochophore.
In Podarke Tread well 1901 these cells are also minute and occupy relatively the same position as in Dinophilus.
Treadwell describes small cells of the first quartette which sink through the ectoblast and reaching the cleavage cavity there degenerate.
Torrey 1902 1903 suggests that among these small cells are those two mentioned above viz. idi2i and Ic In Chjmenella the nephroblasts are also small and form part of the dorsal ectoderm of the head as they do in Arenicola.
What the fate of these cells is in the case of Dinophilus I do not know.
The significance of the annehd and molliiscan crosses and of bilateral cleavage in general has been most thoroughly discussed by recent writers on celllineage and on this particular point I have nothing to add.
Since however it is generally agreed that bilateral cleavages are not directly referable to purely mechanical causes but are the result of unknown factors which cause the throwing back of the bilaterality of the adult upon the embryo it is remarkable that this appearance of the adult bilaterality should have occurred in the same cell generation in the same direction and resulting in the same cell pattern as in the Polychseta.
This resemblance is still further continued in the direction of division of the posterior cross arms.
The rosette cells at the time of their formation lie in the furrows between the stem cells but almost immediately afterward they move in a clockwise direction cf.
la and la in fig.
20 so that the cells now lie interradially instead of radialh as in the annelid cross text fig.
V B.
At a stage numbering between one hundred and one hundred and fifty cells the rosette divides dexiotropically and equall3 Its cells which possibly later undergo another division form a cluster of cells much smaller than those surrounding it and can be thus distinguished nearly to the time of the closure of the blastopore.
As far as my observations on both fixed and living material extend the rosette never bears cilia.
In Capitella also an apical tuft of cilia is never present though the rosette is formed as in other Annelida.
The further history of the first quartette is comparatively simple.
The forward movement of the cells of the first quartette has already been described see text fig.
IV AE.
The limits of the first quartette have been determined by two landmarks the cells 2a and 22.2.i Q YiG right and left sides respectively and that chain of small cells which I have identified as the prototroch.
These latter extend over the sides passing just anterior to the cells 2a' and 2c and around the ventral side as a continuous row but on the dorsal side there is the wide gap so often found in the early stages of the trochophorc larva and due to the same cause viz. the nonparticipation of the products of 2d in the formation of the prototroch.
Owing to this fact I have not been able to trace with certainty the dorsal posterior limits of the first quartette.
On the ventral side the boundary of the first quartette is indicated in fig.
55 by the most anterior row of small cells and curves forward in a semicircle in front of the blastopore.
The position and general outline of the first quartette are sufficienthindicated in text fig.
IV E. It covers like a cap the anterior end of the embryo and corresponds to the umbrella of the trochophore.
At the time of the appearance of the stomodseum the ectoderm at the anterior end of the embryo is seen fig.
58 to consist of high columnar cells while the ectoderm cells covering the rest of the embryo  except at the posterior end where are the still large remnants of the X cells  are cubical or flattened.
The centre of this thickened area is not precisely the anterior pole of the larva but slightly dorsal to that point at which place the descendants of the rosette were last recognized.
This thickening is the rudiment of the brain of the adult.
At a later stage the cells of the thickened area have multiplied and become so closely crowded together that their outlines are barely distinguishable.
In fig.
59 the brain rudiment has increased both in thickness and extent and has at the same time moved somewhat dorsad owing to the rapid growth of the ventral plate.
In fig.
58 the thickened area represents as comparison wdth text fig.
IV.
E will show less than half of the first quartette in fig.
59 it has increased to nearly twice its former area.
Fig.
60 shows the brain in sagittal section at a slightly later stage.
On the dorsal side just behind the brain is a deep furrow which in the adult separates the head from the trunk.
The lateral extent of the brain is shown in fig.
61 a horizontal section of a stage more advanced than that shown in fig.
60.
In this embryo the brain already shows signs of its bilobed character.
From these figures it can be seen that nearly the whole of the first quartette is involved in the formation of the brain if we assume that the second preoral ciliated band of the adult arises from the trochoblasts as is probably the case since the brain rudiment is limited posteriorly by the constriction which separates the head and trunk while the second preoral ciliated band of the adult prototroch appears on the elevation of the head just anterior to this constriction.
The cell origin of the cerebral ganglia among the mollusks has been very fully described by several recent investigators Conklin 1897 Holmes 1900 Meisenheimer 1901 Robert 1903 among the annelids by von Wistinghausen 1891 and Ijy Wilson 1892 for Nereis by Mead 1897 for Amphitrite by Eisig 1898 for Capitella.
Wilson has shown that A'on Wistinghausen's account was incomplete and erroneous and believed that the cereliral jjanlia arise from the cross.
I.ater investigators have been unaVle to either pro'e or disprove tliis statement.
It is at least certain that the brain is formed from the first cjuartette of micromeres and its first rudiment is found in the neighborhood of the rosette.
These facts however can be gathered from the works of the older investigatfrs Hatschek Salensky ct ol.
In Dinophilus the rudiment of the cerebral ganglia involves more than the cells of the cross alone.
Its development however is typically annelidan since the ectodermal thickening which represents the earliest rudiment of the brain appears beneath the rosette which in the trochophore bears the apical tuft of cilia.
This 7'udiment then is to be regarded as the ontogenetic representative of the '' Scheitelplatte of the annelid trochophore.
2 The PrototroeJi.
The head of both the larval and adult individuals of Dinophilus gyrociliatus apatris is encircled by two narrow transverse lands of long cilia similar to those which are found on the metameres of the trunk as illustrated in text fig.
T.
Both of these bands are preoral the first being situated just anterior to the eyes the second surrounds the head near its juncture with the trvmk and passes ventrally just anterior to the mouth.
This second preoral band corresponds in position and function to the prototroch of the trochophore.
It first appears at a stage nearly corresponding to that figured in fig.
59 as two delicate tufts of cilia on each side of the head.
The history of the cells composing this second preoral ciliated band which I have already taken the liberty of calling the prototroch will be considered under the head of the first quartette.
I have done this chiefly because of the important ilace given in the literature of celllineage to those components of the annelid prototroch and the molluscan velum derived from the first quartette the primary trochoblasts Mead 1897.
At the 29cell stage the primary trchollasts are already beginning to divide figs.
14 and 15.
The division is equal in all.
The posterior pair divide meridionally while in the anterior pair the spindle is inclined from the horizontal plane in a dexiotrojiic direction.
While the posterior pair begin to divide as early as the stage shown in fig.
14 26 cells lb does not complete its division until a stage numbering 54 or more cells is reached.
Meanwhile the cells of the second quartette in the A and C quadrants have each given off a small cell above by a nearly equatorial cleavage figs.
14 15 16 IS and 19.
2b later also divides but this cleavage instead of4eingeuatorial.
is strongly dexiotropic as it should be following the law of alternating cleavage fig.
29.
While this division is in progress the lateral cells of the second quartette are again in division figs.
26 and 27.
This division is leiotropic its result is that a cell similar to but smaller than 2a and 2c is placed to the left of these cells.
Lastly 2b divides similarly the products being shown in fig.
41.
For the six cells thus formed from the second quartette 2a 2a etc. I have adopted Mead's name of secondary trochoblasts' though they arc not precisely identical in origin with those to which Mead gave this name.
At a stage of about 81 cells the secondary trochoblasts 2a and 2c divide leiotropically and equally figs.
34 and 35.
No doubt 2b also follows suit though I have not seen this division.
The origin of the accessory trochoblasts la etc. by the dexiotropic division of the intermediate girdle cells has already been described.
There is now an irregular row formed of 22 small cells which encircles the embryo at a level just between the first and second quartettes.
These cells are arranged as follows passing from left to right ld22kPi2a22ai22aiila etc.
It is very probable that the accessory and primary trochoblasts soon divide again since in the embryo from which fig.
50 was drawn Ic and Ic were both undergoing an equal and meridional division.
The row of cells thus formed is clearly distinguishable up to the closure of the blastopore and it was by means of this row as well as by the large size of 2a' and 2c' that I have been able to trace the boundary of the first quartette as shown in text fig.
IV A.
The trochoblasts are very transparent and become elongated in the direction of the cell row At the stage shown in fig.
55 the prototroch is nearly transverse to the long axis of the embryo as is also shown by the dotted line in text fig.
IV E but in front of the blastopore it bends sharply forward in a semicircle.
In these figures the trochoblasts are represented by the most anterior row of that group of small cells lying just anterior to the blastopore.
Beyond the stage represented in fig.
55 I have not been able to trace this group since all the cells of the ectoderm through rapid mitosis soon become nearly uniformly small in size.
In fig.
44 where the trochoblasts were last identified they were on the ventral side but a short distance anterior to the blastopore and jassed up on each side in a row nearly transverse to the long axis of the embryo cf.
text fig.
IV E.
Since the stomodseum appears at the point where the blastopore closed and is then pushed forward through growth of the ventral ectoderm ventral plate it follows that the trochoblasts must still remain as a more or less transverse row passing in front of the stomodseum.
At the close of the emlrvonic life when the trans712 Oct. verse ciliated bands characteristic of the embryo are acquired among these is one which passes around the head just in front of the mouth and occupying precisely the position that the row of trochoblasts would be expected to assume after the growth changes which have taken place.
It must either be supposed that the ciliated ring in question is derived from the trochoblasts or else from other cells occupying a very similar position.
Of the two hypotheses the latter appears to me much the more probable especially in view of the persistence of the prototroch in many annelid larvse where it encircles the head passing ventrally just anterior to the mouth its position thus essentially coinciding with that of the second preoral ciliated band of Dinophilus.
The cell origin of the annelid prototroch has been determined in Nereis Wilson 1892 Amphitrite and Clymenella Mead 1897 Arenicola Child 1900 and Podarke Treadwell 1901.
Among the mollusks the precise cell origin of the velum has been determined in but two forms Ischnochiton Heath 1899 and Trochus Robert 1903 although in two other forms Crepidula Conklin 1897 and Planorbis Holmes 1900 the origin of the velum has been determined with considerable if not absolute certainty.
Below is given for the sake of convenience in comparison a table of the components of the prototroch and velum in the A quadrant of those forms in which it has been most carefully worked out.
The components of the prototroch of Dinophilus are added for comparison.
Nereis Amphitrite  Clymenella 
Lepidonotus   Arenicola J Podarke Thalassema Ischnochiton Trochris Dinophilus la Primary Secondary Accessory Trochoblasts.
Trochoblasts.
Trochoblasts.
la None None  2aii 1 1 la 2aii2  None 1 2aii 1 J I la  2a''' I la''' 2aii ' la  2a'' 2ai2i  la''''  la j 2''' 1 2a''f 2aiii jla'''' 1 la  2aii2a'''' f 2aii  None 1 1 2ai2 2a'i lai 1904.
713 All the forms mentioned have the primary trochoblasts in common in all except Nereis the gaps between the four groups of primary trochoblasts are closed partly or entirely by cells derived from 2a 2c and 2bS Ischnochiton Podarke and Dinophilus agree in that the cells la Ib and Icparticipate in the prototroch.
In common with the annelids there is also a dorsal gap in the prototroch owing to the fact that none of the cells of the D quadrant except the primary trochoblasts take part in its formation.
Dinophilus differs from all the other forms in 1 the small size of the primary trochoblasts 2 that at least the posterior pair of the primary trochoblasts probably divide twice meridionally and 3 in that 2a 2b and 2c also take part in closing the gaps between the groups of primary trochoblasts in the quadrants A B and C. These differences however are of slight importance compared with the great and striking similarity to the annelids manifested in the origin of the cells which almost certainly form the second preoral ciliated band of the adult Dinophilus.
In the light of this similarity the conclusion is almost unavoidable that the second preoral ciliated band of Dinophilus is truly the homologue of the annelid prototroch.
The peculiarities in the formation of the Dinophilus prototroch become readily comprehensible if the character of the end result i.e. the second ciliated band be considered and also the time at which this organ comes into functional activity.
The cleavages involved in the formation of the prototroch are thus clearly seen to be of prospective significance or inorphogenetic.
The ciliated bands of the larval or adult Dinophilus are as compared with the prototroch or velum of such forms as Amphitrite Arenicola Podarke Ischnochiton or Trochus relatively narrow tracts text fig.
VI consisting of but a few rows of long cilia as shown in the figures of Korschelt 1882 or Meyer 1887.
Moreover these tracts probably do not become functional until late in embryonic life.
Conklin 1897 has shown that the size of the protoblast of an organ is related not only to the size of that organ but also to the time at which it becomes functional.
In the light of this fact the small size of all the trochoblasts is easily explained.
4ti Fig.
VI head and first two trunk somites of Dinophilus larva soon after hatching.
Drawn from a living individual The two meridional cleavages of the primary trochoblasts and the participation of 2a 2b2i and 2c in the prototroch tend toward the same end i.e. the production of a narrow band of small cells.
2a 2b and 2c instead of each giving off one large cell to the prototroch which subdivides into four cells covering a broad area each lays down side by side two small cells which may then divide meridionally or nearly so without violation of the law of alternating cleavages and thus increase the length of the prototroch but not its breadth.
VII.
 History of the Second and Third Quartettes.
1 2d   X.
The origin of 2d   X has already been described.
The size of this cell is enormous as compared with that of the other cells of the embryo.
This relatively enormous size recalls the conditions found among the lamellibranchs Cijclas Stauffacher 1893 Unto Lillie 1895 and Dreissensia Meisenheimer 1901 and among annelids in Arenicola Child 1900 and also in Clepsine Whitman 1878.
The first two divisions of this cell have already been described  the products of these divisions and the first product of the third division x are shown in fig.
42.
In this figure it is seen that x and x are not precisely symmetrical with respect to X either in size or position since x is somewhat larger than x and placed at a higher level on X. x lies precisely in the ventral midline x lies dorsally to the left as viewed from behind and has been formed by a dexiotropic division of X.
The approaching division of x and x as shown in the figure is of interest since x is the first cell in the embryo to violate the law of alternating cleavages inasmuch as the spindle for this division has the same direction as that which formed x.
This reversal of the spindle in x was first pointed out ly Mead 1897 for Ampkitrite and was also found by Child 1900 in Arenicola.
The products of this division and the corresponding one of x2 are shown in fig.
43.
In this figure are also shown the spindles for the fourth cleavage of the X group.
Two points are to be noted in this cleavage  1 the division of x has evidently pushed x toward the left right in the figure bringing it almost into the midline  and 2 X is dividing into bilaterally placed halves.
This bilateral division of X is a striking and constant feature of the unequal type of cleavage among the polychsetous annelids.
A similar division occurs in the lamellibranchs but appears at the fifth cleavage instead of at the fourth.
All the products of the fourth cleavage of X are shown in fig.
44. x has budded off a small cell below x has divided into neariy equal parts by a meridional cleavage while x has split into unequal parts the left product being the greater and occupying a median position in the cleft between X and X.
The cell x is now nearly equal to x.' and their next two divisions figs.
47 and 49 are bilaterally symmetrical.
The same may be said of the small cells x and x figs.
41 to 48.
While I have not followed the history of these latter cells further it is extremely probable that their divisions are also bilaterally symmetrical.
There is here then an instance of a symmetrical arrangement of cells derived by asymmetrical divisions examples of which are found in the annelid and molluscan crosses and in the X group of Ani'phitrite Mead 1897 and Arenicola Child 1900 and probably also in many other forms.
While x and x are almost equal x is really somewhat the smaller of the two and in this connection it is of interest to remember that on this side the left next to x lies the largest member of the third quartette viz. 3d.
Returning to figs.
44 and 45 the cells x and x are seen to have each given off a minute cell toward the vegetal pole.
These cells are also shown in figs.
38 and 39.
The products of the bilateral division of X called by Wilson 1892 the posterior proteleblasts and by Child 1900 the posterior stem cells undergo a series of bilateral divisions.
The first is shown in figs.
4547 X and x.
These cells have pushed forward x'' and j.2.i.i 'YQ qqYs formed by the next division of the posterior stem cells come to lie together near the median plane and are also budded oflf toward the animal pole.
Meanwhile x has been divided into equal parts by a meridional plane and these three cells assume a symmetrical arrangement fig.
48.
I regret that I have not followed the division of the members of the X group beyond this point.
Figs.
53 and 55 show what is probably the next division of the posterior stem cells by means of which two large cells x'x' are separated off ventrally and laterally.
After the closure of the blastopore the posterior stem cells each undergo a further subdivision into two cells by a meridional cleavage.
The four cells thus formed resemble in appearance the posterior tcloblasts of Nereis Wilson 1892.
The lineage of those cells which lie on the vegetal pole side of the posterior stem cells was followed as far as is indicated in the figures but a consideration of their cleavages is of little value inasmuch as there is no sign of a paratroch at the time when the blastopore closes and the cells on the ventral side of the embryo have by this time become so small and thin as to be very difficult to distinguish satisfactorily.
There are two points in connection with the cleavage of X which require special mention.
The first of these concerns the first four cleavages of X.
These cleavages are essentially the same as those of X in Amphitrite and Clymenella Mead 1897 and Arenicola Child 1900.
This similarity extends not only to the direction of the cleavages but also to their products which bear to one another a very similar size relation.
This striking resemblance cannot be ascribed to the effect of alternating cleavages since at the third cleavage this law is violated in x at the fourth in X.
The divisions of X in Dinophilus and Nereis Wilson 1892 differ no more than do the corresponding divisions in Nereis and other annelids Amphitrite etc..
These differences are that in Nereis x is formed exactly in the dorsal midline and that the division of x is delayed and is nearly equal when it occurs.
In all the Polychata whose cytogeny is known except Podarke bilaterality appears in X at the fourth cleavage.
It may then be said of Dinophilus that hilaterality appears in the cell X in the same cell generation as in all polychcetous annelids investigated having the unequal type of cleavage and appears in x at the same cleavage as in at least three polychcetous annelids.
The second point concerns the arrangement of the cells of the X group.
In Nereis the main body of the descendants of X are so distributed that they come to lie on the vegetal pole side of the stem cells the latter remaining near the prototroch.
In the other Polychaeta up to the time of the closure of the blastopore the descendants of X are uniformly distributed about the posterior stem cells so that up to a late stage the latter occupy a central position with regard to their products.
In Dinophilus on the other hand the greater part of the descendants of X up to the time when the blastopore is closed are distributed dorsal and lateral to the posterior stem cells.
This peculiarity is related to the peculiar shifting of areas which has already been briefly described in the chapter on the later development.
This distribution is not due entirely to a difference in the direction of the division of X  though in Nereis two cells x and x are budded off toward the vegetal pole  but to a shifting of the cells among themselves.
For example in Amphitrite the cells x and xshift to the vegetal pole side of X while in Dinophilus the same cells always retain a lateral position.
The further history of this group as far as I have been able to trace it is as follows.
At a time near the closure of the blastopore as shown in fig.
55 and text fig.
IV E the first quartette has been shifted forward through nearly 90 degrees being pushed forward through the formation of xx' xx' etc. until the descendants of these cells cover the dorsal surface of the embryo up to the limits of the first quartette and also cover a large portion of the lateral surface.
Behind the blastopore the descendants of X form a small group of cells which in fig.
53 have not yet covered in the primary mesoblasts.
Mitotic activity in this region has been very slight as may be gathered from examination of the optical section shown in fig.
54.
The effect of active mitosis in the posterior dorsal region is perceived in the thinness of the ectoderm in this region.
The X cells posterior to the blastopore appear to advance and fuse with the other ectoderm cells surrounding the blastopore.
Whether they actually form part of the blastopore I cannot at present say but judging from their position in fig.
55 it seems probable that they do.
The stomodaeum is formed as has already been stated at precisely the point where the blastopore closed.
It then moves rapidly forward to occupy the position shown in fig.
59.
This movement is caused by the growth of the cells posterior to the blastopore which up to this time have been slow in dividing as well as by new additions from the posterior stem cells.
This ventral plate of cells derived from X corresponds in origin and position to that group known among the annelids as the ventral plate.
Examination of the ventral side of an embryo at this stage shows numerous mitotic figures and the rapid growth of this region is testified to by the thinning of the ventral ectoderm and by the dorsal flexure shown in figs.
59 and 60.
From this time on it is evident that the further growth of trunk ectoderm is due entirely to growth of the cells of the X group for since the appearance of the segments from in front backward indicates terminal growth it is evident that the descendants of X can alone be concerned.
2d or X then contributes at least the larger part of the trunk ectoderm as is the case in all the polychaetous annelids whose cell lineage has been studied.
A larva of four segments is shown in horizontal section in fig.
61.
By comparison of this figure which is drawn to the same scale as the other figures an adequate idea can be obtained of the relatively enormous extent of the trunk ectoderm.
When it is recollected that this latter is formed principally if not exclusively from 2d without any addition of food material from the exterior the colossal size of 2d is very readily comprehended.
A very similar case is found in the development of Arenicola.
In this form as already remarked the first somatoblast is also unusually large and furnishes material for the first three segments of the adult worm.
In Dinophilus direct development has wholly supplanted the larval type since the material stored up in 2d forms six body segments the total number found in the adult.
2 2a 26 and 2c and the Third Quartette.
The divisions of the cells 2a 2b and 2c up to an advanced stage have been described in dealing with the history of the prototroch.
There is left but one division to record which I have observed only in 2a and 2c..
This division is shown in figs.
34 and 35.
The plane of the division is nearly equatorial but inclined slightly in a leiotropic direction in the C quadrant in a dexiotropic direction in the A quadrant.
Of the two products the lower is somewhat the smaller.
I have never witnessed a corresponding division in 2bj but it very probabl' occurs.
The position and small size of this cell make it difficult to study in the later stages.
The two products of 2aand 2c respectively are quite conspicuous up to an advanced stage although they probably divide into smaller cells just before the blastopore closes.
The origin of the third quartette has been dealt with in the description of the cleavages.
3d is the largest cell in this quartette 3b the smallest while 3a and 3c are intermediate in size.
At the 40cell stage 3d divides equally and leiotropically.
The products of this division are shown in fig.
22.
A little later 3c divides but in quite a different manner budding off a small cell toward the animal pole.
The plane of the division is equatorial fig.
26.
Next 3a also buds off a cell toward the animal pole the spindle being nearly vertical though the position of the products indicates a leiotropic division.
3b divides some time after 3a and here the spindle is decidedly leiotropic fig.
34.
It is interesting to note that both 3b and 2b in their respective quartettes are the most conservative in retaining the primitive direction of their divisions.
Wliile 3a is in division spindles are seen in 3d and 3d fig.
27.
These cells bud off tiny cells toward the animal pole fig.
32 .
Of these latter that derived from 3d is the smaller.
The spindles for this division are nearly vertical but sufficiently inclined to make the division leiotropic in direct violation to the law of alternating cleavages.
Even before 3b has completed its first division 3c has budded off another cell toward the animal pole the spindle being inclined dexiotropically as it should be according to the law of alternating cleavages fig.
34.
With this division or rather the one which follows it i.e. that of 3b I have ceased to follow the celllineage of the entire egg.
In fig.
53 the position of the cells 2a22i 2a2 2c and 2c222 is clearly seen.
Each pair of cells form a portion of the lateral margin of the blastopore 2a and 2c which formerly were above that is to the animal pole side of 2aand 2c now lie anterior to them.
They still however maintain their relative position in the ectoderm and their changed relation to the entoderm and the X group is the result of the shifting of the ectoderm already described.
A clear idea of the change of position of the cells in question may be obtained from a glance at text fig.
IV AD.
The corresponding cells in the B quadrant have not been seen.
Doubtless 2b divides as do 2a and 2c though at a much later period but the products of such a division are not to be recognized in fig.
53.
In the embryo represented in the figure the trochoblasts can plainly be discerned dorsal to 2a and 2c on the ventral side of the embryo they form an irregular cell row.
Below this there is a group of small cells which presents to the eye no definite arrangement.
These represent the descendants of 2b 3a and 3b.
Posterior to the blastopore are those cells which in annelids form the ventral plate.
These cells barely cover the posterior face of the primary mesoblasts.
Just posterior to 2a and 2c are one or two small cells on each side whose lineage has not been determined but which are probably descendants of 3d and 3c.
Turning to fig.
55 the relations of the cells surrounding the blastopore are much less clear.
On each side of the anterior portion of the blastopore are two cells slightly larger than those surrounding them.
These are probably the descendants of 2'' 2a222 2c22i and 2c222.
The blastopore has meanwhile narrowed to an irregular cleft the cells anterior to it forming a seam while the cells of the ventral plate have only advanced sufficiently to cover in one of the mesoblasts and part of the other.
All of the cells which constitute the rim of the blastopore are small and extremely thin and transparent making their outlines very difficult to discern and the exact lineage of any of these impossible to determine.
From a comparison of figs.
53 and 55 it is seen that the cells of the ectoderm have crowded toward the vegetal pole from all directions but especially from the sides.
It is also evident that the anterior portion of the margin of the blastopore between 2a and 2c is composed of the descendants of 2b 3b and 3c that the lateral margin is at least partly composed of the descendants of 2a and 2c unless the small cells which form the blastopore rim in fig.
55 have all slipped in around 2a 2a 2c and 2c2  It seems probable that this is not the case but that the small cells comprising the lateral margin of the blastopore are derived from the second quartette.
It is however fairly certain that some small cells have pushed in between the descendants of 2a and 2c and the cells of the X group.
These must be the descendants of 3c on one side and 3d on the other.
In Nereis Wilson 1892 described these cells 2a 2c
and 2b as stomatoblasts since they converge to form an arc of cells as the blastopore closes and arc concerned in the formation of the stomodseum.
Mead 1897 states that in Amphitrite 22 2
and 2c come to occupy positions similar to the stomatoblasts of Nereis but is in doubt as to their precise fate.
In Capitella Eisig 1898 finds that the margin of the blastopore is composed entirely of the products of the second quartette oesophagoblasts.
In Podarke Treadwell 1901 at least one cell from the second quartette forms a portion of the stomodaeal wall as do also products of 3a 3b and 3c.
In Arenicola Child 1900 eight products from the third quartette function as stomatoblasts and form an arc of cells similar to that formed by the stomatoblasts of Nereis.
Various conditions are found among the Iollusca.
In Ischnochiton Heath 1899 products of both the second and the third quartettes take part in the formation of the blastopore lips this appears to be also the case in Planorhis Holmes 1901 while in Trochus Robert 1903 the lips are formed at first by cells derived from both the second and third ciuartettes but later the products of the second quartette are excluded from the rim of the blastopore.
In conclusion it may be said that in Dinophilus no one set of cells 3an be denominated stomatoblasts but that products from both the second and third quartettes take part in the formation of the blastopore rim.
The products of 2b 3a and 3b since they lie immediately in front of the blastopore probably contribute to the formation of the stomodaeum.
The fate of the cells 2a 2a 2c and 2cis problematical.
It is possible that they too contribute to the formation of the stomodseal wall.
On the other hand it seems pretty certain that but a small part of 3c and 3d contribute to the formation of the stomodaeum.
Their position just anterior to the cells of the X group which is not materially altered during the shifting of the ectoderm together with their large size makes it possible that they contribute largely to the lateral ectoderm of the head.
Mesoblast of ectodermal origin larval mesoblast Lillie  psedomcsoblast Eisig has been described for a number of Mollusca and the annelids Podarke Treadwell 1901 Capitella Eisig 1898 Aricia Wilson 1898 and Thalassema Torrey 1903.
Schimkewitsch 1895 describes cells from the ectoderm in the anterior part of the Dinophilus embryo as migrating into the body cavity and there contributing to the mesenchyme.
Certain cells of whose exact lineage I am ignorant belonging to the first quartette do invaginate figs.
57 and 58 and it is quite possible that one or more of them may give rise to the mesenchyme of the head and the mouth segment region but it is my belief that ectomesoblast if such exists is very small in amount and that the greater part if not all of the mesenchyme of the adult as well as the ovaries are formed from 4d.
VIII.
 History of the Fourth and Fifth Quartettes.
1 The Entomeres.
The entoderm at the time 4d is formed fig.
17 consists of 2A 2B.
IC and 3D.
The origin of the third quartette and the primary mesoblast cell 4d have already been described.
The other three members of the fourth quartette arise by an equal and leiotropic cleavage.
Figs.
23 and 24 show the origin of 4c fig.
29 that of 4a while figs.
33 and 41 show 4b already formed.
At the 72cell stage 4D has divided dexiotropically into 5D and 5d fig.
33 the latter product being the smaller.
The inequality of this division compensates so to speak for the inequality of the division preceding since at the completion of the seventh cleavage the original macromeres 5A 5B 5C and 5D are alike in size.
After the division of 4D 4C 4A and 4B divide equally and dexiotropically to form the fifth quartette figs.
51 and 52.
The original macromeres now form a cross the arms of which lie radially.
Since up to the last division the macromeres lay interradially it is evident that a rotation of the macromeres through an arc of 45 degrees has been brought about.
This rotation has taken place in an anticlockwise direction viewing the ovum from the animal pole as can be seen by a comparison of figs.
50 and 52.
This movement is due to the reduction in size of the macromeres and their superficial position at the seventh cleavage.
During this cleavage the members of the fifth quartette are on the other hand held in place by their greater surface contact with the surrounding cells of the egg so that the macromeres 5A etc. are rotated as were the members of the first quartette at the time of their origin A similar rotation apparently occurs also in Amphitrite Clymenella Mead 1897 and Arenicola Child 1900.
After the division of the fourth quartette the entomeres cease dividing and enter a resting stage which continues until after the closure of the blastopore.
They now form a thick roughly ovoid mass of cells fourteen in number.
At the centre of this mass on the ventral side fig.
52 lie the four macromeres 5D posterior 5B anterior while 5C and 5A lie laterally.
Alternating with the macromeres are the four members of the fifth quartette while at the outer ends of the cross formed by the macromeres lie the three pairs of entomeres belonging to the fourth quartette.
This relation is very similar to that described ' by Wilson 1892 for Aricia.
In both cases this arrangement is probably brought about by the mechanical processes involved in spiral cleavage.
Each cell approximates in shape a foursided prism the nuclei lying in the lower ends of the cells near their ventral surface.
As the blastopore narrows however these nuclei begin to move inward figs.
54 and 56.
This movement is associated with a change in shape of the entomeres which in turn is part of the process of gastrulation.
As the blastopore lips draw together figs.
53 and 55 the lower or vegetal pole ends of the entomeres grow smaller while the upper or animal pole ends become larger figs.
54 and 56.
These cells thus change from a prismatic to a pyramidal shape.
Viewed in a sagittal optical section their outlines radiate fanwise from the blastopore fig.
56.
This condition is figured by Repiachoff 1886 and also by Schimkewitsch 1895.
This peculiar phenomenon may be a reminiscence of a time when the type of gastrulation was embolic and not epibolic and the latter condition may have been brought about by acquisition of food yolk during the phylogeny.
Such acquisition of yolk is a secondary character commonly associated with a change from larval to direct development and it is perfectly possible that a change from emboly to epiboly may have been brought about in this manner.
The nuclei have meanwhile undergone changes in structure as well as in position.
The chromatin which before was distributed in the nuclear vesicles in the form of small granules is now concentrated in each vesicle in one deep staining chromatin nucleolus fig.
56.
This condition is not an uncommon one in resting cells and is also seen in the entomeres of Crepidula Conklin 1897 figs.
52 53 and 54.
The further history of the entoderm I have not been able to follow in detail.
At a period when the stomodseum has assumed the position of the definitive mouth the entoderm cells are seen to have multiplied somewhat and to have assumed an arrangement quite different from that found in earlier stages.
In fig.
57 which is a horizontal optical section of a stage when the stomodseum is just making its appearance the entoderm cells have still the radial arrangement which they assumed at the time of the closure of the blastopore.
In fig.
59 a sagittal section of a much later stage the arrangement is totally different the entoderm cells have multiplied and are now arranged in a more or less definite layer about a small central lumen.
2 The Mcsomeres.
At the 29cell stage 4d is but just formed and lies on the lower side of the cleaving ovum below and in front of X and to the left of the midline.
Very soon after its formation 4d divides again.
This division parts it by a bilateral cleavage into two equal cells the primary mcsomcres M and M. This division is illustrated in figs.
28 and 44.
The primary mesomeres remain undivided up to the 72ceIl stage when they undergo a division of great interest.
This division is shown in figs.
33 and 36.
By it two small cells are budded ofT anteriorly toward the vegetal pole and close to the line of juncture of the two mesomeres.
This division is however not bilaterally symmetrical hut is on the other liand 'plainly dexiotropic and follows the law of alternating cleavages.
The product of the left mesomere thus lies in the furrow formed by the juncture of the two mesomeres and the entomeres 5D and 5d.
The product of the right mesomeres on the other hand lies between its parent cell and 5D.
The next division of the mesomeres fig.
50 is also not symmetrical.
By this division the left mesomere buds off a small cell on its left anterior surface that is leiotropically  on the other hand the right mesomere violates the law of spiral cleavage by dividing in the same direction as before and placing a small cell to the left of its first product fig.
50.
The next division marks the beginning of trvie teloblastic cleavages.
Each mesomere in this division buds off dorsally and laterally a small cell.
Just how many of these divisions occur before the closure of the blastopore I cannot say but probably not more than two.
After the closure of the blastopore the mesomeres begin to shift apart moving laterally forward and somewhat dorsally.
In the horizontal optical section shown in fig.
57 they have reached a position which I think is their final one.
In this movement they not only have changed their position with regard to one another but also with regard to the median plane of the embryo.
Up to the time of the closure of the blastopore the mesomeres are situated at the left of the ventral midline but as shown in fig.
57 at the close of this movement the mesomeres are bilaterally situated with respect to the median plane of the embryo.
The cause of this shifting apart is not clear but I think it is to be explained by the peculiar shape of the entomeres.
These are at the time the blastopore closes pyramidal in form with their apices at the blastopore.
This point as will be seen by reference to figs.
53 and 55 is just anterior to the junction of the mesomeres.
After the ectoderm of the ventral plate has enclosed the mesomeres they are subjected to a pressure from the ectoderm which tends to force them inward against the narrow ends of the entomeres.
These latter press in between the mesomeres and wedge them apart.
They are however prevented from passing backwards and in fact compelled to move forward by contact with the cells of the X group.
In Thalassenia there occurs a similar shifting apart of the mesomeres which Torrey 1903 also explains as being caused by pressure of the entomeres.
The position occupied by the mesomeres is at first sight somewhat different from that occupied by similar cells among the mollusks and annelids.
In the majority of these forms the mesomeres soon after their formation are invaginated into the cleavage cavity.
In Dinophilus they remain on the exterior until covered by ectoderm when they move laterally to the entoderm.
There was however at an early stage a cleavage cavity between the ectoderm and the entoderm and had the mesomeres moved into it then their behavior would have been that of the corresponding cells in most mollusks and annelids.
As it is their migration into the cleavage cavity is postponed until a later period of the history of the embryo but their final position is not essentially different from that of other forms.
In fig.
57 a band of mesoblast cells is seen on each side of the entoderm running forward from the mesomeres which are in division.
The mesoblast is also shown in fig.
59 ventral to the entoderm.
The later history of the mesoblast has not been followed out in detail.
It is my hope to be able at a later period to determine precisely to what organs and tissues the mesomeres contribute but it seems fairly certain that they give rise to the mesenchyme and sex organs ovaries of the adult.
Of especial interest would be the fate of the first two products of each mesomere in the light of the discovery made by Conklin 1897 that part of 4d is in Crepidula entodermal.
Following Conklin's discovery Wilson 1897 in Xereis Treadwell 1901 in Podarke and Torrey 1903 in Tlialassema found that part of the mesomeres in these forms was entodermal I have not been able to follow out the fate of the first two products of each mesomere since their small size and position causes them to become inextricably blended with the ectodermal cells surrounding the posterior lip of the blastopore.
The position of three of these cells in the midline suggests however that their fate may be different from that of the other products of the mesomeres.
IX. Axial Relations.
The discussion of the axial relations of the Dinophilus embrj'o falls naturally under two heads viz.
 1 The relation of the first and second cleavage planes to the future median plane of the adult and 2 the shifting of areas which occurs in relation to the closure of the blastopore.
Both of these questions have received much attention from embryologists and have been so thoroughly discussed by the writers on cellHneage that it would be superfluous for me to attempt here to treat the subject at length and so I shall confine m3self to stating what these relations are in the Dinophilns embryo and to comparing them with a few other forms.
As already mentioned the cell 2d is of very great value as a landmark.
From its origin up to the time when the last traces of it are seen it marks the posterior end of the embryo.
Of course it may be said that since the first three cleavages are of the spiral type and not of the bilateral type and since x and x are not exactly eqvial in size that the centre of 2d before these cleavages could not well be situated at the same point as that of 2d after them.
This however is not a point of practical importance.
To all intents and purposes the centre of the cell 2d lies in the future median plane of the embryo.
The animal and vegetal poles lie in this plane so that its relation to the cleaving egg can now be determined.
2d after its formation lies in the furrow between Ic and ID.
A glance at the figures from fig.
10 to fig.
33 shows that the second cleavage plane between the macromcres up to the 72ccll stage fig.
33 very nearly coincides with the median plane of the embryo since both 2d and the vegetal pole lie in this furrow.
At the 72cell stage however these relations are beginning to undergo a change.
As described under the history of the entomeres the macromeres undergo a rotation through 45 degrees bringing 5D and 5B into the former plane of the second cleavage.
This point will be made clear by reference to figs.
50 and 52.
The median plane of the embryo and adult then passes through 5B and 5D and forms an angle of 45 degrees with the plane of the second cleavage between the original macromeres.
In conclusion it follows since 2d marks the posterior region of the embryo and since during the early cleavage stages it lies in the furrow between the posterior macromeres that the second cleavage plane does coincide in a general way with the future sagittal plane of the embryo although it is evident that at the 4cell stage the cleavage plane between C and D must pass to the right of the sagittal plane of the embryo.
This result is at variance with the results obtained among the Annelida by most writers though Wilson 1892 found that the second cleavage coincides with the sagittal plane of the future embryo.
Much importance however cannot be attached to these relations of the entomeres with the embryo since they are the result of shiftings between the macromeres and micromeres which may occur at an early period.
In Dinophilus for example the members of the first quartette when' first formed lie in the furrows between the macromeres  at the next cleavage they are shifted in a sinistral direction so that they lie precisely over their parent macromeres cf.
figs.
8 and 10 and this relative position is retained up to the formation of the fifth quartette.
In Amphitrite Mead 1897 and Arenicola Child 1900 this sinistral totation does not bring the micromeres so precisely over the corresponding macromeres.
In considering the relation of the cleavage plane with the embryonic axis the micromeres are of far more importance than the macromeres.
An examination of the figures of the later cleavages will show that the planes of the first and second cleavages as traced over the entire embryo do not coincide with its transverse and sagittal planes but that here the rule laid down by Lillie 1895 holds good viz.
 The members of the odd generations of ectomeres as well as the entomeres are distributed two each right and left of the middle line those of the even generations are placed anterior posterior right and left.
The shifting of the axis which is largely concerned in bringing about the closure of the blastopore has been already described in chapter V. It was there spoken of as a forward movement of the first quartette or rather of the ectoderm of the anterior half of the embryo.
This shifting I think might better be looked upon as a shifting backward of the ectoderm of the posterior half of the embryo considering the animal pole as the fixed point.
In the first case the blastopore would be closed from in front backward in the latter from behind forward which brings it into line with what we know of other forms.
In either case the egg axis is bent through an angle of nearly 90 degrees but not quite since the animal pole is as Wilson 1892 showed to be the case in Nereis probably slightly dorsal to the anterior pole of the embryo.
This shifting of areas during the process of gastrulation is almost precisely similar to that which occurs in Crepidula as described by Conklin 1897.
There is in that form a bending of the egg axis through 90 degrees and also caused by rapid growth of the cells of the D quadrant which pushes forward the ectoderm of the aboral surface over the entoderm the vegetative pole being apparently the fixed point.
This condition is attributed by Conklin to the accinnulation of yolk in the entoderm cells and doubtless this is the cause of the similar relations existing between entoderm and ectoderm in Dinophilus the solid yolkladen mass of entoderm cells altering their form and relative positions but little while the ectoderm is shifted over them.
X.
 The Phylogenetic Relationships of Dinophilus in the Light of Its Early Development.
In this chapter I wish to briefly compare the early development of Dinophilus with that of other groups and to consider what light a study of its celllineage sheds on its systematic position.
That the study of celllineage is of value in determining relationship has been abundantly shown by the results accomplished in this particular branch of zoological research.
These have in a most striking degree corroborated the results attained by the study of comparative anatomy and have further shown that in a large number of forms representative of large and important groups the characters of the various forms as manifested in the cleavage are as constant as the anatomical characters and must therefore be as truly inherited.
Furthermore since coenogenetic changes may be supposed to affect the later stage of development first we may expect to find the earlier stages retaining longer their primitive characters although even the earliest stages have been affected by precocious segregation and are no longer highly primitive.
The study of the early development cannot be regarded as a sure or certain guide in determining relationship in every case yet it may I think be very properly called to aid in the determination of the relationships of doubtful forms.
In the case of Dinophilus the cleavage has presented such startling and accurate resemblances to the chsetopod annelids that it seems impossible that they do not indicate relationship for so many and minute correspondences could hardly have arisen independently.
I have already stated these resemblances separately but wish here to bring them together in order that their force may be more apparent.
In the first place the manner of origin of the germ layers  ectoderm arising from the first three quartettes mesoderm from the left posterior member of the fourth quartette and entoderm from the remaining cells  brings Dinophilus into a list of forms already large and still increasing containing members of the Lamellibranchia Gasteropoda Polychaeta and Echiuridse.
In common with many Annelida and Mollusca the larger part or all of the ectoderm of the trunk is derived from one cell the posterior member of the second quartette.
A little later the resemblances to the annelids become more marked.
In the development of the second preoral ciliated band of Dinophilus is recognized the prototroch of the trochophore and the earliest rudiment of the brain appears at the same point as the annelid Scheitelplatte.
There are however in the cleavages themselves resemblances to the cleavage of the polychajte annelids which are most striking viz. in the origin of the bilateral cleavages.
In the cross and in the products of 2d the transition from the spiral type of cleavage to the more specialized bilateral type occurs in precisely the same cells and in precisely the same directions as in the Polychseta.
Moreover the second bilateral divisions of the cells of the posterior arms of the cross continue this resemblance.
All these characters if such they may be called when viewed as a whole point in no uncertain way to a descent from the annelid stem and at a point not far from that at which the Polychaeta arose.
If we consider as I think at present we must that the trochophore is a larval form common at least to the Annelida we cannot regard the development of Dinophilus as primitive.
This view is upheld by many features of the cleavage especially by the many departures from the spiral type exemplified in the divisions of the primary trochoblasts and many other cells and also in the discrepancy between the size of 2b and 3b as compared with their sister cells.
Further evidence of secondary change is found in the enormous size of 2d and 4d which have acquired a very large amount of cytoplasm in order to supply material to build up the trunk region which in the trochophore is ordinarily acquired from the exterior through active feeding.
Besides these there is the retarded development of the adult organs which do not become functional until the animal is nearly ready to hatch but which must have been primitively functional at a much earlier period.
Such organs are the intestine and prototroch.
The latter together with the rosette and possibly the perianal band of cilia which may represent the paratroch are the sole relics of organs peculiar to the trochophore.
It is to be regarded as doubtful if even these would now be recognizable were it not for the fact that these are also concerned in the formation of adult organs.
How quickly such a larval organ as the prototroch may disappear is illustrated in the development of Sternaspis Child 1900 where the prototroch has entirely disappeared though this larval organ is highly developed in related forms.
Thus in the light of the cleavage as well as in that afforded by the more recent work on the anatomy of Dinophilus Metschnikoff's conjecture appears almost prophetic.
Dinophilus probably is to be regarded as a stationare Annelidenlarva but one in which the larval stage has become an end stage toward which the development tends and which has become correspondingly modified.
Postscript.
Since the above paper was presented for publication there have come to hand two papers by Prof. John H. Gerould The Development of Phascolosoma  Arch.
Zool.
exp.
et gen. 11 2 1904 and  Studies on the Embryology of the Sipunculidse I.
The Embryonal Envelope and Its Homologies  Mark Anniversarj Volume Art.
XXII.
In the former of these two papers Prof Gerould shows that in Phascolosoma the ectoderm arises from the first three quartettes of micromeres the mesoderm from 4d and the entoderm from the remaining cells thus adding a representative of the Sipunculids to the list of forms mentioned in section IV 4 of the present paper.
The author further points out the presence of a typical annelid cross and rosette in Phascolosoma that the prototroch of the larva is formed from the sixteen primary trochoblasts and that the somatic plate arises from 2d.
The second paper mentioned among other interesting facts concerning the relation of the larva of Sipunculus and Phascolosoma establishes the homology of the serosa of Phascolosoma with the prototroch of Sipu7iculus.
730 Oct. 1904.
731 U3J3 coco CO 732 Oct. rvj fO.
O  Q  D o pa  
1904.
733  o o H 734 proceedings of the academy of oct. Literature Cited.
1880.
Balfour.
Comparative Emhryology.
Vol.
1.
1861.
Beneden P. J.
VAN.
Sur un nouveau Nemertien de la cote d'Ostende.
BiiU.
de VAcad.
R. de Belgique XVIII 1.
1883.
Blochmann F. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Entwickelung der Gasteropoden.
Zeit.
wiss.
ZooL XXXVIII.
1900.
Carazzi Dav.
L'embriologia dell' Aplysia limacina L. Anat.
Anz. XVII 4 and 5.
1900.
Child C. M. The Early Development of Arenicola and Sternaspis.
Archiv Entwickehings Mech. IV 9.
1897.
CoNKLiN E. G. The Embryology of Crcpidula.
Journ.
Morph. XIII 1.
1902.
CoNKLiN E. G. Kar5'okinesis and Cytokinesis in the Maturation Fertilization and Cleavage of Crepidula and other Gasteropoda.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 2d Series XII.
1.
1874.
DiEsiNG C. Revision der TurbeUarien.
Sitzungsber.
K. Acad.
d. Wiss.
Wien XLIV 1 and XFV 1.
1898.
Elsig Hugo.
Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Capitelliden.
Mittheil.
ZooL Stat.
Neapel 13.
1875.
FoL H. Sur le Developpement des Pteropodes.
Arch.
ZooL e.rp.
et gen. 5.
1882.
Graff L. Monographie der TurbeUarien I. Leipzig 1882.
1889.
Harmer S. F. Notes on the Anatomy of Dinophilus.
Journ.
Marine Biol.
Assn.
United Kingdom N. S. I.
1885.
Hatschek B. Entwickelung der Trochophora von Eupomatus uncinatus Phillipi.
Arh.
ZooL Inst.
Wien 6.
1899.
Heath Harold.
The Development of Ischnochiton.
ZooL Jahrb.
Abth.
.
Anat.
u.
Ontog. XII.
1893.
Heymons Richard.
Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte von I'mbrella mediterranea Lam.
Zeit.
Wiss.
ZooL 56.
1900.
Holmes S. J.
The Early Development of Planorbis.
Journ.
Morph. XVI 2.
1895.
Jennings H. S. The Early Development of Asplanchna Herricki De Guerne.
Bzdl.
Mus.
Comp.
ZooL Harvard ColL XXX.
1894.
KoFoiD C. A.
On Some Laws of Cleavage in Limax.
Proc.
Am.
Acad.
Arts and Sci.
N. S. XXI.
1882.
KoRSCHELT EuGEN.
Ueber Bau und Entwicklung des Dinophilus apatris.
Zeit.
iviss.
ZooL XXXVII.
1893.
KoRSCHELT EuGEN und Heider Karl.
Lehrbuch der vergleichenden Anatomic.
Specieller Theil Kap.
X.
1884.
Lang Arnold.
Die Polycladen Seeplanarien des Golfes von Neapel vmd der angrenzenden Meereabschnitte.
Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel XI.
1895.
LiLLiE F. R. The Embryology of the Unionidse.
Journ.
Morph. X.
1897.
Mead A. D. The Early Development of Marine Annelids.
Journ.
Morph.XUl2.
1901.
Meisenheimer Jok.
Entwickelungsgeschichte von Dreissensia polymorpha.
Zeit.
wiss.
ZooL 69 1.
1879.
Mereschkowsky C. Ueber einige TurbeUarien des weissen Meeres.
ArcJiiv fur Naturgesch. XU 1.
1866.
Mecznikow E. Apsilus lentiformis ein Raderthier.
Zeit.
wiss.
ZooL XVI.
1887.
Meyer E. Studien ueber den Korperbau der Anneliden.
Mitth.
ZooL Stat.
Neapel VII.
1899.
Moore Anne.
Dinophilus gardneri sp.
nov..
Biol.
Bull. 1 Oct. 1886.
Repiachoff.
Zur Anatomic und Entwickelungsgeschichte des Dinophilus gyrocilatus O. Schmidt.
Zapiski Notvoross.
ObtscJiestwa etc. X 1.
Odessa.
1903.
Robert A. Recherches sur le Developpement des Troques.
Paris.
Arch.
zool.
exp.
Se serie.
X.
1861.
Schmarda L. K. Neue wirbellose Thiere beobachtet und gesamnndt auf einer Reise um die Erde.
I. TurbeUarien Rotatorien und Anneliden.
Leipzig.
189.5.
ScHiMKEwiTscH W. Zur Kenntniss des Baues und des Entwickelung des Dinophilus vom Weissen Meere.
Zeit.
wiss.
Zool. LIX 1.
1848.
Schmidt Oscar.
Neue Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Wurmer.
Jena.
1882.
Schmidt Oscar.
Handbuch der Vergleichenden Anatomic 8.
Jena.
1849.
ScHULTZE Max.
Ueber die Microstomeen eine Familie der Turbellarien.
Troschel's Archiv XV 1.
1893.
Stauffacher H. Eibildung und Furchung bei Cvclas cornea.
Jena Zeit.
f.
Naturw. XXVIII.
1902.
ToRREY J. C. The Early Development of the Mesoblast in Thalassema.
Anat.
Anz. XXI 9.
1903.
ToRREY J. C. The Early Embrjologv of Thalassema Mellita Conn'.
Ann.
New York Acad.
Sci. XIV 3.
1901.
Treadwell a. L. The Cytogeny of Podarke obscura Verrill.
Journ.
Morph. XVII 3.
1895.
Verrill A. E. Dinophilidse of New England.
Trans.
Connecticut Acad.
Arts and Sci. VIII.
1886.
Weldon W. F. R. On Dinophilus gigas.
Quart.
Journ.
Micr.
Sci.
1878.
Whitman C. O.
The Embryology of Clepsine.
Quart.
Journ.
Micr.
Soc XVIII.
1897.
Wierzejski Anton.
Ueber die Entwickelung des Mesoderms bei Physa fontinalis L. Biol.
Centralblatt XVII 11.
1891.
Wistinghausen C. v. Untersuchungen ueber die Entwickelung von Nereis DumeriUi.
Alitth.
Zool.
Stat.
Neapel 10.
1892.
Wilson E. B.
The CellLineage of Nereis.
Journ.
Morph. VI 3.
1897.
Wilson E. B.
Considerations on CellLineage and Ancestral Reminiscence.
Ann.
New York Acad.
Sci. XI 1.
1898.
Wilson E. B. CellLineage and Ancestral Reminiscence.
Ann.
New York Acad.
Sci. XI 1.
Explanation op Plates XLIIIXLVIII.
The figures have with few exceptions been drawn with the camera lucida at the table level under Zeiss homo.
imm.
yV oc.
2.
With whatever lenses used however all the figures were drawn to the same scale of magnification.
Reference Letters.
bl.. Blastopore.
mes. Mesoderm.
br..
Brain.
pr. Proctodaum.
br.
com. Commissure of brain.
pro.. Proboscis.
gl.. Gland st. Stomodum.
int.l.. Lumen of intestine.
sto.l.. Lumen of stomach.
m. Mouth.
v.p.. Ectoderm of ventral plate.
Plate XLIII Fig.
1.
 Unsegmented oaim after the expulsion of the second polar body.
The female pronucleus lies at the animal pole of the egg surrounded on its lower side by a large aster.
The sperm nucleus with its accompanying aster is seen to the right of and below the centre of the ovum.
Fig.
2.
 Unsegmented ovum after union of the two pronuclei.
Fig.
3. Early anaphase of first cleavage spindle.
The cellbody is beginning to elongate.
Fig.
4.
 Two cells.
Prophases of spindles for second cleavage.
Fig.
5. Two cells.
AB in metaphase CD in anaphase of division.
Figs.
6 and 7.
 Four cells.
Spindle fibres still connecting A and B. Animal pole.
Fig.
8.
 Seven to eight cells.
Animal pole.
Ic and Id formed and in prophase of next division la just formed and lb in process of formation.
Ic is taking in one of the polar bodies.
Fig.
9. Nine cells left side.
2d just formed Id preparing to give off Id.
Fig.
10.
 Twelve cells animal pole la just formed.
Fig.
11.
 Thirteen to fourteen cells animal pole lb about to divide.
Fig.
12. Thirteen to fourteen cells right side.
2c just formed 2dX dividing to form x.
Plate XLIV Fig.
13.
 Thirteen to fourteen cells left side.
2a in process of formation.
Fig.
14. Twentysix cells animal pole lb' just formed Ic' and Id'' preparing to form rosette.
Fig.
15.
 Twentysix cells from right side.
Spindle fibres connecting 3C and 3c Ic preparing to divide.
Fig.
16.
 Twentysix cells left side.
2a and 3D preparing to divide spindle fibres connecting X and x and 3A and 3a.
Fig.
17.
 TwentysLx cells vegetal pole x' forming 3D in metaphase of division.
Fig.
18. Twentyeight cells left side.
2a' formed cell body of 3D elongated.
Fig.
19.
 Twentyeight cells right side.
2B in division.
Fig.
20.
 Forty cells animal pole.
Ic'' and Id'' preparing for tlieir first bilateral division.
Fig.
21.
 Forty cells right side.
Plate XLV Fig.
22. Forty cells left side.
Fig.
23.
 Fortytwo cells right side.
4c just formed.
Fig.
24.
 Fortytwo cells vegetal pole.
4d preparing for bilateral division.
Fig.
25.
 Fiftyfour cells animal pole.
Bilateral division of the posterior stem cells of the first quartette completed.
Fig.
26. Fiftyfour cells right side.
2c' formed.
Fig.
27. Fiftyfour cells left side.
Fig.
28. Fiftyfour cells vegetal pole.
Bilateral division of 4d completed X preparing for bilateral division.
Fig.
29.
 Fiftythree cells anterior end.
Divisions of 3A 2b 3b lb and 2c shown.
Fig.
30.
 Seventytwo cells.
Division of cells of posterior arms of cross  arm of cross in the B quadrant just formed.
Plate XL VI Fig.
31.
 Seventytwo cells right side.
Fig.
32.
 Seventytwo cells left side.
Fig.
33.
 Seventytwo cells vegetal pole x divided 5d just formed.
Fig.
34. Eightyone cells right side.
2'and 2c'divided.
Fig.
35.
 Eightyone cells left side.
2a' and 2s in process of division.
Fig.
36.
 Eightyone cells vegetal pole.
Dexiotropic division of M. and M. Fig.
37.
 Eightynine cells animal pole.
Division of Ib'''.
Figs.
38 and 39.
 Eightynine cells right and left sides respectively.
Plate XLVII Fig.
40.
 Eightynine cells vegetal pole.
Figs.
4249.
 Products of 2dX viewed from the posterior end.
Fig.
42 was drawn from the same ovum as represented in Fig.
20  Fig.
44 likewise corresponds to Fig.
30 Fig.
45 to Figs.
3436 and Fig.
47 to Fig.
37.
Fig.
50.
 Vegetal pole.
Formation of 5a and second division of M and M. Fig.
51. Vegetal pole.
4c divided 4a and 4b dividing.
Fig.
52.
 Division of entomeres completed.
Plate XLVIII Figs.
53 and 55. Two stages during the closure of the blastopore.
They show also the division of X and X to form x and x'.
Figs.
54 and 56.
 Optical sagittal sections of same showing change in form of the entoderm cells and the inward migration of their nuclei.
Fig.
57.
 Horizontal optical section of embryo at the time of the appearance of the stomodseum.
The mesomeres which are seen in division have moved apart.
In front of each mesomere is seen the band of mesoblast to which it has given rise.
Fig.
58.
 Optical sagittal section of same stage showing formation of stomodseum.
At the anterior end is also seen the ectodermal thickening which gives rise to the brain.
Fig.
59.
 Sagittal section of a much later stage than the last.
The stomodseum has assumed the position of the definitive mouth while the entoderm cells have multiplied and arranged themselves about the rudiment of the intestinal lumen.
Below the entoderm cells is seen the mesoderm.
rig.'60.
 Sagittal section of a late stage.
The entoderm cells now form an epithelial layer about a welldefined lumen.
The rudiment of the intestine is making its appearance.
Fig.
61.
 Horizontal section of an embryo with four segments.
Fig.
62.
 Transverse section of a stage similar to that illustrated in Fig.
60 showing the relations of the three germ layers.
