NEW RARE OR LITTLEKNOWN SCOMBROIDS.
No.
II.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
OARANGID.
SCOMBEROIDIN.E.
SCOMBEROIDES Lacpfede.
Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. Ill 1802 p. 50 noelii.
Dorsal spines I VII.
Pterygoid teeth present.
Subitenus SCOMBEKOIDES Lac6pMe.
Scales shorter not very elongate or more normally developed.
Soomberoides toloo Cuvier.
Chorinemus toloo Cuvier Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. VIII 1831 p. 277.
Malabar.
M.
Belenger.
Based on Toloo parah Russell Fishes of Coromandel II 1803 p. 29 PI.
137.
Vizagapatam.
Head 4f  depth 3 D. I VIII 20 A. III 18 P. ii 15 V. I.
5 width of head 2 in its length depth of head l mandible If fifth dorsal spine 5 first dorsal ray If first anal spine 4 least depth of caudal peduncle 4 pectoral 1 ventral 2 snout 3 from tip of upper jaw  eye 4  maxillary If.
Gillrakers 3  9 compressed pointed and with fine bristles on inner edges.
Longest about f of longest filaments.
Longest filaments about  of orbit.
Color when fresh in arrack slatygray above sides and lower surface silverywhite.
Top of head snout and upper marginal portion of back grayish.
On sides a little above about six daubs or blotches of grayish.
Soft dorsal dull or pale yellowishwhite on basal portion upper part grayish.
Ventral and anal similar.
Axil of pectoral dusky.
Iris pale yellowish.
Peritoneum whitish.
Length 13 inches.
Four examples one now in Stanford University.
Padang Sumatra.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Soomberoides moluccensis Gray.
Thynnus moluccensis Gray Cat.
Fish Gronow Brit.
Mus. 1854 p. 121.
Insulas Moluccenses.
Britisli Museum.
Chorinemus sancti petri Bleeker Verh.
Bat.
Genoot.
Bijd.
Makreel.
Vissch.
Soend.
Mohik.
Arch.
 XXIV 1852 p. 45.
Giinther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. II 1860 p. 473.
Giinther Journ.
Mus.
Godef.
Fische der Stidsee V 1876 p. 138.
Part.
Not of Cuvier.
Head 4 depth 3i D. I VIII 20 A. III IS P. ii 16 V. I 5 1905.
57 width of head 2tV in its length depth of head 1 mandible U first dorsal ray about 2 first anal ray about 2i upper caudal lobe 1 pectoral If ventral 1 snout 3f in head measured from its tip eye 4 maxillary 1 intcrorbital space 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 4f  sixth dorsal spine 4.
Body rather elongate somewhat oblongovate strongly compressed and greatest depth about opposite origin of soft dorsal.
Profiles nearly straight after origins of soft dorsal and anal.
Caudal peduncle slender compressed and its least depth about half of its length.
Head rather small compressed upper profile but little inclined and nearly straight till a little before spinous dorsal.
Lower profile rather convex from tip of mandible.
Snout rather short a trifle longer than eye rather narrow convex and tip of upper jaw rather pointed.
Fig.
1.
 Scomberoides moluccensis Gray.
Eye circular lower rim well below in greatest depth and posterior rim a little posterior in length of head.
Mouth large gape reaching about opposite front rim of pupil and tip of mandible produced a little in front beyond tip of upper jaw.
Preorbital narrow Maxillary long narrow its distal expanded extremity equal to about f of pupil and reaching about opposite first f of orbit.
Mandible curved up a little in front.
Teeth small strong and a single series of rather enlarged ones in upper jaw especially in front.
Front of upper jaw with patch of fine teeth inside and along edges but narrowing posteriorly.
Teeth biserial in mandible those of outer series very small close together and directed outwards.
Teeth of outer series of upper jaw fitting in between the two mandibular series when mouth is closed.
Four slightly enlarged caninelike teeth in front of lower jaw in inner series.
Patches of small teeth on vomer palatines and pterygoids.
that of former witliout backward elongation.
Tongue small a little elongate rounded and free in front.
Tongue and basibranchials with fine asperous patches.
Nostrils adjoining level with upper part of iris posterior a little larger and without flap in front.
Interorlital space elevated and a median trenchant keel extending from intcrnasal space to spinous dorsal.
Gillopening extending forward a trifle before front rim of orbit.
Rakers 916 slender compressed pointed and longest equal to filaments which are about f of orbit.
Pseudobranchise small.
Isthmus strongly compressed but its edge rounded.
Scales small elongate not narrowl so and not on head and fins except base of caudal.
Lateral line a little wavy at first becoming straight after origin of soft anal.
Axillary cavities at bases of pectoral and ventral.
Each dorsal and anal spine depressible in a groove.
First dorsal spine directed forward and its tip about opposite first third of pectoral.
Of depressible spines fifth and sixth longest and seventh a little shorter than fourth.
When depressed spines overlap.
Soft dorsal inserted a little nearer snout than base of caudal first fewrays longest and about last eleven finletlike though joined by a membrane.
Soft anal inserted behind origin of soft dorsal and fin similar.
Caudal forked lobes pointed and rather slender.
Spinous anal inserted well beyond tip of pectoral second spine longest and reaching origin of rayed fin.
Pectoral broad short and origin of fin a little below middle of depth.
Ventral large inserted opposite origin of pectoral.
First ray reaching about f of space to spinous anal and innerqiost joined to abdomen by a membrane.
Spine slender and a little over half of length of fin.
Color in alcohol pale brownishdrabgray above side and lower surface silverywhite.
Side of head silvery.
Fins pale strawbrownish nds of caudal lobes a little darker and upper portions of soft dorsal rays deep brownishblack.
Ventral and anal whitish.
No blotches apparent on side of trunk.
Iris pale brassy.
Peritoneum whitish.
Length 6j inches.
No.
11328 A. N. S. P. One example from Christmas Island lat.
1 59' N. long.
157 32' W. Polynesia.
Dr. William H. Jones.
One from Manila Philippine Islands from Dr. M. Burrough differs a little as follows Head 4 depth 3f  width of head 2f in its length depth of head 1 mandible If pectoral H ventral about 2 snout 3 in head measured from tip of upper jaw.
Maxillary reaching a little nearer posterior rim of orbit.
Length 6 inches.
Also two examples probably from Polynesia.
They agree in most all details.
One is very young measuring 2 inches.
It has  Head 3  depth Sf.
Body strongly compressed and of more fusiform profile.
Spines large fifth longest.
Second anal spine reaching past origin of soft anal fin which is inserted a little behind that of soft dorsal.
Ventral equally as long as pectoral and reaching a little beyond anus but not quite to origin of spinous anal.
Pectoral broad.
Scomberoides tolooparah Riippcll from the Red Sea needs comparison.
The synonomies of the species of Scomberoides appear to have been greatly confused.
Gray's moluccensis seems to be the oldest name available for the East Indian form with which I also identify that from Polynesia.
RHAPHIOLEPIS subseii.
nov.
Type Chorinemus tol Cuvier.
Scales elongate and slender.
Approaching Oligoplites.
'Fdpui' a small needle le' a scale.
Scomberoides tol Cuvier.
Chorinemus tol Cuvier Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. VIII 1831 p. 283.
Pondichery.
M.
Leschenault.
La cote de Malabar.
MM.
Dussumier et Belenger.
Amboine.
He de Bourou.
MM.
Quoy and Gaimard.
Probably not Tol parnh Russell.
Head 4 depth 4 D. I VIII 20 A. III 19 P. ii 15 V. I 5 width of head 2 in its length depth of head If least depth of caudal peduncle 5 pectoral lyf  ventral 2 snout 3 from its tip eye 4f  maxillary 2 interorbital space 3f.
Gillrakers 818 compressed slender pointed with minute bristles on their inner surfaces and longest nearly equal to longest filaments.
Color when fresh in arrack rich slatygray above deep or blackish along profile of back and a deep blackish streak above eye along side of head above till over base of pectoral.
Sides of body and lower surface silverywhite with about five distinct pale gray blotches anteriorly. '
Spinous dorsal grayblack.
Soft dorsal dull or pale yellowishwhite except upper or outer portions of anterior rays which are black.
Caudal grayish.
Anal pectoral and ventral whitish.
Axil of pectoral blackish.
Iris pale yellowish.
Peritoneum pale or whitish.
Length 9 inches.
One example from Padang Sumatra.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Russell's poor figure cannot be certainly identified with this species.
Oligoplites saurus Schueider.
Scomber saurua Schneider Syst.
Ichth.
Bloch 1801 p. 32.
Jamaica.
Based on Browne.
Fort Macon North Carolina Key West Florida.
Young exam' Lichia tolooparah Cuvier in Riippell Atlas zu der Reise im nordlichen Afrika ZooL 1828 p. 91.
Massaua.
2 Tol parah Russell Fishes of Coromandel II 1803 PI.
138.
60 Jan. pics from Porto Rico Coll.
U. S. Fish Com.
about 4 inches long are more slender the depth usually about 3 and the maxillary falling a little short of posterior margin of eye.
At present in alcohol the iris is dilute silverywhite.
The colored figure given by Messrs. Evermann and Marsh unfortunately lacks the spinous dorsal and anal fins.
Oligoplites saliens Bloch.
Scornber saliens Bloch Naturg.
Ausl.
Fisch. VII X 1793 p. 49 Pi.
335.
Bey den antillischen Inseln.
Head 4 depth 3f  D. I IVI 20 A. III 20 P. iii 14 V. I 5 width of head about 2yo in its length depth of head over posterior margin of eye li mandible 1f  second articulated dorsal ray H first articulated anal ray If pectoral 1 ventral 2f  snout 34 in head measured from its own tip eye 4 maxillary li interorbital space 4 Fig.
2.
 Oligoplites saliens Bloch.
last dorsal spine 4  second anal spine 4f  least depth of caudal peduncle 4.
Body deep compressed oblongovoid and greatest depth at origin of rayed anal.
Profiles similar more or less straight to caudal peduncle after origins of soft dorsal and anal.
Caudal peduncle rather slender compressed and its least depth about 2 in length.
Head deep compressed upper profile nearly straight and lower about evenly convex from tip of mandible to gillopening.
Snout short  convex a little broad and upper jaw a little pointed in front.
Eye circular lower rim a little below greatest depth and posterior rim about midway in head.
Mouth large gape reaching about opposite middle of orbit and tip of mandible produced a little beyond tip of upper jaw.
Preorbital narrow.
Maxillary long narrow its distal expanded ex3 Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm.
Fish.
Porto Rico 1899 1900 PI.
7. trcmity equal to about f of pupil much inclined and reaching well beyond posterior margin of orbit.
Teeth small strong somewhat slender pointed uniserial in upper jaw and biserial in lower.
Outer series of mandible directed somewhat outward so that those of upper fit in between.
Patches of minute teeth on vomer and palatines none on pterygoids.
Patch on vomer more or less rounded in shape and Tvdthout backward prolongation like that in 0. sauriis.
Palatine teeth in form of broader patches anteriorly becoming very narrow posteriorly.
Tongue small broad rounded and free in front its upper surface asperous.
Surfaces of basibranchials also asperous.
Nostrils adjoining nearly opposite middle of eye and also a little nearer same than tip of snout.
Posterior a little larger and partly concealed in front by a small flap along edge of anterior.
Interorbital space elevated convexly and with a median trenchant kel extending from internasal space to occiput.
Region before spinous dorsal also trenchant.
Gillopening extending forward about opposit nostrils.
Rakers about 716 slender and longest a trifle shorter than filaments which arc nearly equal to  of orbit.
Pseud obranchie small.
Isthmus strongly compressed but edge rounded.
Scales elongate slender pointed and irregularly directed backward.
Lateral line curved or wavy at first becoming somewhat straight along side of trunk opposite rayed dorsal and anal.
An axillary cadty at base of pectoral covered over above by a membrane.
A similar one at base of ventral.
Each spine of dorsal and anal depressible in a deep groove.
Head entirely naked.
First dorsal spine directed forward its tip about opposite middle of pectoral.
Dorsal spines separate each one posteriorly united with back by a membrane and all graduated to last which is longest.
Soft dorsal inserted well behind origin of soft anal nearly midway between front margin of orbit and base of last dorsal ray.
Anterior rays elongate forming a small lobe and about last ten finletlike though united by a membrane.
Soft anal similar inserted about midway between tip of mandible and base of last anal ray.
Spinous anal inserted about opposite tip of pectoral spines nearly equal united posteriorly with abdomen by a low membrane also depressible in a groove and not quite reaching origin of anal when depressed.
Caudal moderate deeply forked and lobes somewhat slender.
Pectoral short broad and its insertion nearly level above with lower rim of orbit.
Ventral inserted a trifle in advance inner ray joined to abdomen by a membrane and depressed fin reaching a little over half way to origin of spinous anal.
Ventral spine about half length of fin.
Anus a little nearer tip of depressed ventral than origin of spinous anal.
Color in alcohol dull brown above pale or whitish below.
Body over most all of lower region washed with silverywhite.
This also includes mandible and side of head.
Fins pale strawbrown ventral and anal paler or whiter.
Iris pale brassy.
Peritoneum pale.
Length 9 inches.
No.
11334 A. N. S. P. One example from Rio Janeiro Brazil.
Drs.
Ruschenberger and Turner.
This littleknown form is well marked and easily distinguished from 0. sauriis by the longer maxillary and shape of the patch of vomerine teeth.
The form called palometa is said to have the posterior margin of the infraorbital ring deeply concave.
This is not true of my example as it has the posterior rim of the infraorbital nearly vertical.
SERIOLIN.E.
Naucrates ductor LiniiEeiis.
Gasierosteus ductor Linniius Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 1758 p. 295.
In Pelago Satelles Sqiiali.
Naucrates ductor Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Pesc.
Europ. Xapoli 1S46 p. 72.
Two examples llf and llf inches in length from the Mediterranean show the following Head about 4 depth 4 to 4 D. IIII 25 and 26 A. III 16 eye 5f in head maxillary 3 interorbital space 2 and 2 pectoral about If ventral 1 and If.
Bonaparte Coll.
Also seven examples from the West Indies ranging up to 4f inches in length.
The latter has Head 3f  depth 4f  D. IVI 26 A. III 15 eye 5 in head maxillary 3 interorbital space 2y pectoral 1 ventral If.
The others all more or less agree except that they lecome shorter and the ventrals of the smaller examples reach the anus.
It is 2y'V inches in length and bears evidence of the Xystophorus stage in the presence of prcopercular spines.
The largest example noted above agrees perfectly with the large lediterranean examples in the posterior position of the vent and the slender form of the body.
The scales are decidedly small and approximate about 175 in a lateral series below the lateral line to the base of the caudal.
Naucrates polysarous sp.
nov. Head 3  depth 3i D. VI 25 A. III 16 P. in 16 V. I 5 scales about 120 in a series directly below lateral line to base of caudal 17
scales between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line and about 27
in a vertical series between latter and origin of soft anal width of head If in its length depth of head 1 snout 34 eye 5 maxillary 3 interorbital space 2 mandible 24 second dorsal ray about 2 least depth of caudal peduncle about 5 first anal ray about 2 pectoral damaged If ventral If.
1905.
63 Body plump robust compressed and greatest depth about origin of soft dorsal.
Back about latter a trifle elevated.
Caudal peduncle rather thick depressed above and below and its least depth about  its length.
Head robust plump compressed upper profile obtuse in front and convex.
Snout broad convex and obtuse.
Eye circular not high and its posterior margin well anterior to middle of length of head.
Adipose eyelid not broad.
Mouth rather small and small mandible not produced beyond tip of upper jaw.
Maxillary small reaching front margin of np slipping below preorbital most of its length and distal expanded extremity equal to diameter of pupil.
Teeth fine small and in narrow bands in jaws.
Vomer and palatines with similar teeth those on former forming a backward elongation.
Tongue rather Fig.
3.
 Nnucratefi pohjsarcus Fowler.
small spatulate free and with a small aspcrous patch.
Nostrils adjoining level with upper part of pupil but a little nearer tip of snout.
Posterior with a cutaneous valve in front.
Interorbital space broadly convex.
Gillopening extending forward about opposite front rim of orbit.
Rakers 6  16 compressed pointed longest about f of orbit or about f of longest filaments.
Pseudobranchia
well developed.
Isthmus broad and with a median groove.
Scales small cycloid and of more or less even size.
Cheeks post ocular supraocular mastoid and occipital regions covered with small scales head otherwise naked.
Postocular scales elongate.
Opercles striate.
A patch of small scales extending along bases of soft dorsal and anal in front.
Base and basal region of caudal lobes also covered with small scales.
Base of inner ventral ray scaled anteriorly.
Lateral line well curved convexly below origin of spinous dorsal then descending rather steeply till about opposite first third in base of dorsal fin and continuing thence straight to base of caudal.
Cutaneous keel along side of caudal peduncle not conspicuous.
Tubes of lateral line simple.
Dorsal spines low third longest and others graduated down.
Origin of this fin nearly midway between middle of orbit and origin of soft anal in vertical.
Soft dorsal inserted a little nearer tip of snout than base of last dorsal ray and first ray longest others graduated down though no lobe is formed.
Soft anal similar inserted far behind anal or about midway between origin of ventral and base of last anal ray.
Caudal rather small forked and lobes apparently pointed.
Pectoral broad short origin about level with lower margin of eye.
'entral long pointed inserted below bases of lowest or last pectoral rays and reaching f of space to origin of spinous anal.
Ventral spine small and thin and last ray united to abdomen by a membrane.
Anus midway between tip of depressed ventral and origin of spinous anal.
Color in alcohol deep brown back and upper surface darker.
Lower surface pale brownish.
Fins brownish.
Pectoral deep brown.
'entrals with front margins of spine and rays light or pale rest of fin more or less duskjor dull blackishbrown.
Side with five broad deep brown transverse bands rather regular and spaces between much narrower.
First band extends from space just before spinous dorsal down to side of chest including base of pectoral in its course.
Second extends from spinous dorsal.
Third extends from bases of anterior long dorsal rays toward vent and tip of ventrals.
Fourth extends down on bases of long anterior anal rays.
Fifth includes last rays of both dorsal and anal.
Base of caudal also of same color.
Transverse bands also become paler or more or less fade out below.
Iris dull yellowish.
Peritoneum pale.
Length caudal damaged 6g inches.
Type No.
11379 A. N. S. P. West coast of Mexico.
Dr. Wilham H. Jones.
One example.
This species is provisionally separated from Nmicrates dudor b the more robust or deeper form of the body the ventrals reaching back till the front margin of the vent is midway between in the space to the origin of the spinous anal and the much larger scales.
Dr. Gill first pointed out the differences between this form and N. dudor basing the examination apparently on one of the examples in the Bonaparte collection now before me and an example from Honolulu Hawaiian Islands sent to the Smithsonian Institution ly the Rev.
W. H. Pease.
 From his account the latter example appears identical with my type.
fJoXijfTapKo plump.
Elagatis bipinnulatus Quoy and Gaimard.
Seriola hipinnulata Quoy  and Gaimard Voyage de I'Uranie Zool. 182.5 p. 363 PI.
61 fig.
3.
Isles des Papons.
M.
Taunay.
Head 4 depth 5i D. VII 24 2 A. I 16 2 P. iii 16 V. I 5 scales about 105 in a lateral series to base of caudal  about 12 between origin of dorsal and lateral line width of head 2 in its length depth of head If mandible 2 third dorsal spine 5 base of spinous dorsal 2 spine of soft dorsal 4f  first undeveloped dorsal ray 2f  anal spine 1 first anal ray 3  least depth of caudal peduncle 5 pectoral 1 ventral 2 snout 2f from its tip eye 6 maxillary 3 interorbital space 2.
Body elongate fusiform slender and compressed greatest depth near origin of soft dorsal.
Caudal peduncle small compressed and its width If in its depth.
Tail sloping down graduaUy.
A small pit at origin of each caudal lobe.
Head elongate subconic compressed pointed and upper profile almost straight from end of snout to occiput.
Snout long pointed rather broad and with upper jaw projecting.
Eye small with narrow eyelid and midway in length of head.
Mouth small slightly curved and with mandible projecting beyond upper jaw.
Maxillary broad posteriorly till equal to f of eye its entire edge slipping under preorbital and reaching posteriorly half way between nostrils and front of orbit.
Lips thick and fleshy especially lower.
Teeth in fine rasplike bands in jaws broader anteriorly but not connected at symphysis or front of upper jaw.
Vomer and palatines with patches of fine teeth.
Tongue long free rather thin upper surface with numerous small velvety patches and tip broadly rounded.
Nostrils small lateral together and near last third of space between tip of snout and front of eye.
Interorbital space broad and elevated.
A broad median ridge from snout to occiput and also a broad ridge over each eye.
Margin of preopcrcle entire.
Gillopening extending forward till opposite nostrils.
Rakers 9  26  compressed long with fine bristles on inner edges and longest but little shorter than longest filaments.
Filaments a little shorter than eye and pscudobranchisD about half as long as latter.
Branchiostegals 7 large.
Isthmus broad with a shallow groove.
 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1862 1863 p. 441.
5 Scales small numerous irregularly rounded generally elongate with imperfect striae and not imbricated.
Head more or less naked except on cheeks occiput and space back of eyes.
Bases of anterior long dorsal and anal rajs scaly.
Base of caudal scaly.
Base of pectoral with minute scales.
Lateral line superior at first extending down to middle of side of tail opposite origin of anal and then straight to base of caudal.
Dorsal spines small pungent third longest and others graduated in front and behind all depressible in a groove.
Insertion of spinous dorsal about over last fifth of pectoral or nearly midway between front margin of eye and origin of anal.
Origin of soft dorsal nearer tip of mandible than base of caudal first ray highest and others graduated.
Last two rays detached.
Anal similar but smaller and its origin nearer gillopening than base of caudal.
Caudal deeply forked lobes long pointed and lower about 3 in body.
Pectoral small a little larger than ventral and not reaching as far posteriorly.
Origin of ventral a little nearer posterior margin of eye than origin of soft dorsal rays strong and reaching half way to anus.
Anus about an ejediameter before origin of anal.
Color when fresh in arrack deep leadengray or brownish above lower parts pale or dirty white.
Dorsals and caudal dark lilcc back.
Anals pale or whitish last rays with a grayish margin.
Pectoral and ventral grayish latter with white rays.
Lateral line forms a median dark streak along side of caudal peduncle.
Iris pale brown.
Peritoneum white.
Length 2.3 inches.
No.
25130 A. N. S. P. Padang Sumatra.
One example.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
The American form needs comparison.
It has been considered identical by Liitken Meek and BoUmau.
CARANGIN.
Megalaspis cordyla Liunteus.
Scomber cordyla Linnaeus Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 1758 p. 298.
America.
Megalaspis rottleri Fowler 'Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XII 2 1904 p. 506.
Head 4 depth 4i D. VIIII 11 8 A. III 9 7 scales 28 in lateral line and scutes about 60 to base of caudal snout 3f in head  Seriola pinnulata Poey Mem.
Hist.
Nat.
Cuba II 1858 p. 233.
Cuba.
 Seriolichthys bipinnulatus Liitken Kon.
Dansk.
Vid.
Selsk.
Skrift.
Spolia Atlantica XII 1880 p. 603. '
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1889 p. 42. from its tip eye 5 maxillary 2 interorbital space 3.
Gillrakers 11  21 long compressed and with fine bristles on inner margin.
Color when fresh in arrack deep steelgray on back side and lower surface of body white.
Latter and especially sides of head and large scutes of lateral line burnished with bright silvery.
Top of head blackish.
Upper margin of opercle with a blackish blotch a little smaller than eye.
Dorsal caudal and pectoral grayish or duskyblack.
Anal and ventral chalkywhite outer portions more or less dusky or blackish.
After being in alcohol upper surface shows a dark purplishmetallic luster.
Length 12 inches.
Four examples in Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
and Stanford University.
Padang Sumatra.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Decapterus punotatus Agassiz.
Caranx punctatus Agassiz Sel.
Gen. Spec.
Pise.
Brasil. 1829 p. 108 PI.
56a fig.
2.
Oceano Atlantico Brazil.
Museo Monacensi.
Decapterus sanctwhelena Fowler Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 1900 p. 118.
Not of Cuvier.
The three examples that I recorded from Jamaica appear to belong to this species.
The largest 4inches in length agrees with the others.
It has Head 3f  depth 5 D. VIHI 31 1 A. III 27 1 P. ii 18 V. I 5 scales 55 in lateral line to first keeled scute keeled scutes 37 in lateral line.
Also three examples from the stomach of a horse mackerel Pelamys
taken at Newport Rhode Island by Samuel Powel.
The largest of these only measures 4J inches.
It has Head 3 D. VIIII 31 1 A. III 26 1 and keeled scutes 38 in lateral line.
So far as I am able to judge they agree with the Jamaican examples.
Trachnrns symmetricus Ayres.
Caranx symmetricus Ayres Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. I 1855 p. 62.
Bay of San Francisco.
A single example from San Pedro California.
Seriola picturata Bowdich is represented by a miserable figure and does not appear certainly identifiable with the form on the Pacific coast of the United States.
Caranx cuvieri Lowe is also an Atlantic form.
Trachurus mediterraneus Steindachner.
Caranx trachurus var.
mediterranea Steindachner Sitz.
Ak.
Wiss.
Wien LVII 1868 p. 383.
Das Mittelmeer.
Wiener Museum.
Caranx trachurus Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Pesc.
Europ. Napoli 1846 p. 75.
Part.
Head 3f  depth 5 D. I VIIII 32 A. III 28 P. ii 20 V. I 5 scutes in lateral line 4141 82 to base of caudal width of head 2 J in ' Excursions in Madeira and Porto Santo 1825 p. 123 fig.
27.
 Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
Land. II 1837 p. 183.
68 Jan. its length depth of head If mandible 2 fourth erect dorsal spine 2 snout 3 in head measured from its own tip maxillary 2 orbit 3 interorbital space 4 ventral 2 least depth of caudal pedunch' 7 depth of largest keeled scute in lateral line 5.
Body elongate slender fusiform greatest depth apparently near origin of soft dorsal and profiles similar.
Least depth of caudal peduncle nearly  its length.
Head compressed lower profile more full and steeper than upper.
Snout long compressed and with a slight convex protrusion in front.
Eye large orbicular with a welldeveloped adipose eyelid covering at least its posterior f  circular high and a little anterior in head.
Mouth a little inclined and mandible well jjrotruded in front of upper jaw.
Upper edge of maxillary entirely slipping under edge of preorbital Fig.
4.
 Trachurus mediterraneus Steindacliner.
reaching about opposite front margin of eye and its distal expanded extremity about equal to pupil.
Small teeth uniserial in jaws.
A small series of teeth across vomer and also a single series on each palatine.
Tongue elongate slender free rounded at tip and with a single asperous median patch posteriorly.
Nostrils adjoining and much nearer upper front rim of orlit than tip of snout.
Interorbital space a little elevated and with a median keel from internasal space to occiput.
Gillopening extending forward not quite to nostril.
Rakers 16  38
slender equal to  of orbit.
Filaments only about  length of longest rakers.
Pseud obranchiae a little smaller.
Isthmus compressed its lower surface with a median groove.
Scales small extending well on head posteriorly cheek and opercle at least above.
No scales now on anterior bases of rayed dorsal and anal.
A large scaly flap behind axil of pectoral.
Scutes in lateral line broadest along middle of keeled straight portion those along side of caudal peduncle become more strongly keeled and dentate.
Spinous dorsal and anal depressible in grooves.
Spinous dorsal inserted nearly midway between front margin of orbit and origin of soft anal in vertical.
Third erect spine longest others graduated down.
Soft dorsal inserted about midway in length of trunk and first rays longest.
Spinous anal inserted a trifle before origin of soft dorsal spines nearly equal.
Soft anal similar to soft dorsal only inserted more posteriorly.
Caudal rather small forked and lobes apparently pointed.
Pectoral rather long.
Ventral inserted well behind pectoral and reaching a trifle over  of space to origin of spinous anal.
Color in alcohol faded pale dull slatygray above below pale brownishwhite.
Fins dull brown.
Iris pale yellowish.
Length end of caudal damaged 7h inches.
No.
11293 A. N. S. P. Beirut Syria.
One example.
It also agrees with twentyone examples from Italy of all ages.
Bonaparte Coll.
No.
377.
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
One also from Malaga.
Dr. Steindachner first pointed out this form basing it on Mediterranean examples with an increased number of scutes in the lateral line 7986.
T. trachurus is said to have 7075.
Trachurops crumenophthalmus Bloch.
Scomber crmnenophthalmus Bloch Naturg.
Ausl.
Fisch. VII X 1793 p. 77 PI.
343.
An den afrikanischen Kiisten in der Gegend von Acara.
Dr.
Isert.
St. Thomas West Indies San Domingo West Indies New Providence Bahamas Santa Cruz West Indies and Newport Rhode Island.
Examples from the Pacific do not appear different.
An example from Panama Coll.
J.
A. McNeil has Head 3 depth 3f  D. I VIIII 26 A. III 23 scales in lateral line 48 and remaining keeled scutes 33 81  pectoral 1 in head snout 3f in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye 3 maxillary 2 length 9 inches.
Another example from Samoa differs in Head 3j depth 3 A. III 22 54 scales in lateral Hne and remaining keeled scutes 35 89 eye Sh in head measured from tip of upper jaw snout 3 maxillary 2f  length 7 inches.
Smaller Hawaiian examples differ in minor details.
I provisionally follow Dr. Giinther in identifying all these examples with Bloch's crumenophthalmus though possibly exhaustive material may prove different.
 Recorded previously from Samoan and Hawaiian Islands Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila. 1900 p. 501.
Subgenus ALEPES Swainson.
Scales small.
No vomerine or palatine teeth.
Alepes melanoptera Swainson.
Lardner's Cab.
Cyclop.
Nat.
Hist. II 1839 p. 248.
Based on Wort parah Russell Fishes of Coromandel II 1803 p. 40 PI.
155.
Vizagapatam.
Head 3i depth 2i D. I VIIII 24 A. II I 20 P. ii 18 V. I 5 scales 38 in lateral line remaining portion composed of 55 scutes  about 15 scales between spinous dorsal and uppermost part of lateral line width of head 2 in its length depth of head 1 mandible 2 fourth dorsal spine 3 second dorsal ray 2 second anal ray 2 pectoral 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 5 snout 3 in head from its tip eye 3f  interorbital space 3 maxillary 2.
Body moderately long compressed anterior profiles about evenly convex and greatest depth at origin of soft dorsal.
Caudal peduncle slender compressed above and below its least depth If in its length and width a trifle less than its depth.
Head compressed deep and anterior profile obtuse.
Snout convex blunt with upper jaw projecting.
Eye small anterior and with a rather narrow adipose eyelid.
Mouth small oblique upper jaw projecting beyond snout and small maxillary reaching a little beyond front rim of orbit.
Posterior distal expanded extremity of maxillary nearly equal to  of orbit.
Prcorbital thin and upper edge of maxillary slipping below all but a small portion posteriorly.
Teeth minute uniscrial and close together along edges of jaws.
Vomer and palatines edentulous.
Tongue with minute weak asperities its own shape elongate free and rounded in front.
Lips thin.
Nostrils close together lateral much nearer eye than tip of upper jaw and anterior with a slightly elevated fleshy rim.
Interorbital space broad elevated and giving place to median trenchant ridge which extends from above nostrils to occiput.
Preopercular ridge and margin slightly inclined forward.
Gillopening extending forward till below nostrils.
Rakers 619 compressed rather broad and much shorter than filaments.
Filaments about f of orbit and pseudobranchipe much shorter.
Isthmus narrow not trenchant and its lower surface very triangularly elongate.
Scales small numerous cycloid and narrowly imbricated.
Spinous dorsal with a narrow basal sheath.
Soft dorsal and anal with anterior basal portion enclosed in rather broad basal scaly sheaths.
Checks just below eye and upper side of head posteriorly also upper portion of opercle with small scales.
Base of caudal covered with small scales but without any keels at bases of lobes.
Lateral line strongly arched at first till opposite origin of soft dorsal then straight to base of caudal.
Shields small deepest about 10 in greatest depth of body.
Spinous dorsal beginning well behind origin of pectoral spines low fourth highest fin rounded above and depressible in a groove.
Origin of soft dorsal about midway between tip of mandible and base of caudal first ray highest and anterior higher rays graduated down from it not forming a lobe.
Last dorsal and anal rays hardly longer than those preceding.
Soft anal similar to soft dorsal its origin a little nearer base of caudal than front rim of orbit.
Anal spines strong short depressible in a slight groove and first inserted about opposite origin of soft dorsal.
Belly in front of spinous anal with a short bony trenchant keel.
Caudal small forked lobes pointed.
Pectoral rather broad and pointed.
Ventral small reaching nearly half way to soft anal and inserted a trifle in advance of origin of pectoral.
Anus well anterior near tips of ventrals.
Color when fresh in arrack with upper parts of body deep slatygray.
Sides and lower surface whitish and more or less silvery.
Spinous dorsal black.
Soft dorsal caudal and anal dusky other fins paler or whitish.
Opercle with a large blueblack blotch above nearly as large as eye.
Iris yellowish.
Peritoneum silvery.
Length 5 inches.
No.
27501 A. N. S. P. Padang Sumatra.
One example.
Caranx nigripinnis Day is identical.
Russell's figure and description appear to represent this fish and not Caranx pneustus Bennett which Bleeker claimed to have discovered.
Alepes amblyrhynchus Cuvier.
Caranx amblyrhynchus Cuvier Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 76 PI.
248.
Brsil.
M.
Delalande.
Head 3f  depth 2 D. I VIII 28 A. III 24 P. ii 19 V. I 5 scales 41 in lateral line remaining portion composed of about 50 scutes about 16 scales between uppermost part of lateral line and spinous dorsal  width of head about 2 in its length  depth of head at posterior margin of eye about lyf mandible 2 fourth erect dorsal spine 3 first dorsal ray If first anal ray ly least depth of caudal peduncle 5 snout 3in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye 3f  maxillary 3 interorbital space 2 pectoral 2 in head and trunk.
Other characters unless otherwise stated similar to melanoptera.
Least depth of caudal peduncle about 2 in its length.
Mandible only protruded a trifle.
Distal expanded extremity of maxillary  of pupil. 
Fishes of India II 1876 p. 225 PI.
51 fig.
5.
Madras and Andamans.
' In Mem.
Life and Serv.
Raffles 1830 p. 689.
Sumatra.
Gillopcning extending forward opposite front margin of orbit.
Rakers 9  21.
Filaments about half of orbit.
Pseud obranchia
shorter than filaments.
Entire bases of rayed dorsal and anal scaly.
Straight portion of lateral line beginning a little behind origin of soft dorsal.
Soft dorsal inserted much nearer tip of mandible than base of caudal and soft anal similarly inserted.
No trenchant bony keel in front of spinous anal.
Caudal rather large.
Anus just before tip of ventrals.
In alcohol spinous dorsal brown above.
Anal whitish like ventrals.
An indistinct diffuse grayishdusky blotch on opcrcle above.
Iris dull brassy.
One example from Rio Janeiro Brazil S inches long.
Subgenus SELAR Bleeker.
Nat.
Tijds.
Ned.
Ind. I 1850 ISol pp.
343 3.52 boops.
Caranx megalaspis Bleeker.
Selar megalaspis Bleeker 1. c V 1853 p. 502.
Priaman in mari.
M.
Godin.
Cara7ix viegalaspis Fowler Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
8ci.
Pliila. XII 2 1904 p. 510 PI.
13 upper figure.
Head 3 depth 2f D. VIIII 25 A. III 20 P. ii 19 V. I 5 scales in lateral line about 30 its remaining portion composed of about 40 large scutes about 10 scales between origin of dorsal and upper part of lateral line and nearly 30 between latter and origin of anal in an oblique series width of head 2 in its length depth of head lyV mandible 2 third dorsal spine 2 second dorsal ray If first anal ray 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 5  snout 3f from its tip  eye 3  maxillary 2 interorbital space 4 upper lobe of caudal 3 in head and trunk pectoral 3.
Body greatly compressed ovoid and anteriorly upper and lower profiles evenly convex.
Greatest depth at origin of soft dorsal.
Caudal peduncle small its depth 2 its length and its width about  its deptli.
Head rliomboid compressed and blunt anteriorly.
Snout short blunt and compressed.
Eye large anterior and with a broad posterior adipose eyehd.
Mouth oblique and upper jaw projecting slightly beyond snout.
Lips fleshy and lower rather broad.
Teeth minute uniserial in jaws.
Small teeth in patches on vomer and palatines.
Tongue free rounded in front and rather long.
Mandible projecting beyond upper jaw.
Maxillary reaching posteriorly a little bejond front rim of orbit and its distal expanded extremity half of orbit.
Also with a distinct oblique ridge.
Nostrils lateral close together and a little nearer eye than tip of snout.
Interorbital space convexly elevated with a median trenchant keel which begins anteriorly and runs to spinous dorsal.
Margin of preopercle convex.
Gillopening carried forward till opposite front margin of orbit.
Rakers 7  25 a little longer than longest filaments or a trifle over half of eye compressed rather thin and pointed.
Pseudobranchise small.
Isthmus narrow but not trenchant.
Scales small cycloid discoid and imbricated.
Head naked except a patch of scales on cheek adjoining eye opercle and upper posterior side.
Anterior portions of soft dorsal and anal with scaly sheaths.
Spinous dorsal with a low basal sheath.
Bases of caudal and pectoral scaled.
Straight portion of lateral line beginning below origin of soft dorsal curved portion about 2f in straight portion and broadest scutes about 4 or less in depth of body.
Spinous dorsal small spines slender depressible in groove third longest and origin of fin well behind that of pectoral or much nearer origin of soft dorsal than posterior rim of orbit.
Soft dorsal inserted much nearer tip of snout than base of caudal and anterior rays eleated first developed ray longest.
Soft anal similar but its insertion posterior and nearly median in body.
Anal spines inserted in advance of soft dorsal depressible in a groove and second longer.
Caudal deeply forked lobes long and pointed and upper much longer.
Pectoral a little longer than head falcate and reaching opposite base of fourth ray.
Ventral small pointed inserted below origin of pectoral and length about equal to eye.
Color when fresh in arrack with bright silvery prevailing back and upper surface of head pale slatygray.
A large blackish blotch nearly equal to eje on upper part of opercle and shouldergirdle.
This is also reflected inside gillopening.
Snout dusky above.
Fins pale brownish upper portions of dorsals and caudal dusky.
Iris yellowish.
Peritoneum pale and whitish.
Length 5 inches.
No.
27504 A. N. S. P. Padang Sumatra.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H M. Hiller.
In all 8 examples in Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
and Stanford University.
This species is related to Caranx kalla Cuvier from wdiich it is distinguished however by the broad armature of the lateral line.
Upon comparison with Swatow examples of kalla the scutes were found constantly much narrower than in inegalas'pis.
In the latter they are always equal to a little over orbit.
Scomber kleinii is also ' Cuvier Hist.
Nal.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 37.
Pondichery.
Malabar.
La mer Rouge.
M.
Geoffroy.
Mah6.
M. Belenger et M.
Dussumier.
' Rutter Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1897 1898 p. 72.
' Bloch Naturg.
Ausl.
Fisch. VII X 1793 p. 86 PI.
347 fig.
2.
Der malabarischen Kiiste.
related but differs in having shorter scutes.
The figue shows them a Httle over 5 in greatest depth of bod3 Bloch remarks  les opercules sontunis et Ton discerne une tache blue sur le posterieur though it is not indicated on his figure.
Cuvier considered Caranx peronii very close if not identical.
C. megalaspis is also related to C. hoops Cuvier but the scutes of that species range from 45 to 50 while in the former they are seldom over 40.
No trac of a yellow longitudinal band observed.
Caranx mate Cuvier.
Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 40.
Pondichery.
Des Sechelles.
M. Dussumier.
NouvelleGuinee.
MM.
Quoy and Gaimard.
D'etroit d'Antjer.
M.
Raynaud.
Fowler Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XII 2 1904. p. 510 PL 13 lower figure.
Head 3 depth 3f  D. VIIII 23 A. III 19 P. ii 19 V. I 5 scales 50 in lateral line remaining scutes about 42 10 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line in a vertical series  about 30
scales between latter and anus squamation injured width of head IfL in its length depth of head H mandible 2 third dorsal spine 2yL first dorsal ray 2 first anal ray 2J least depth of caudal peduncle 7 snout 3 in head measured from its tip eye 4 maxillary 2f  interorbital space 3 pectoral 3 in head and trunk.
Body compressed deep anterior profiles evenly convex and loAer becoming more so posteriorly so that greatest depth is at spinous anal.
Caudal peduncle slender broadly depressed so that its least depth is 3 and its least width 2 in its length.
Head compressed deep and pointed in front.
Snout conic pointed .
but with upper jaw projecting.
Eye small anterior and with broad adipose eyelids only a vertical slit eciual in width to half its diameter exposed.
Mouth inclined and slightly curved and mandible projecting beyond upper jaw.
Lips fleshy and on each ramus of mandible broad and thick.
Maxillary reaching a little beyond front rim of eye.
its upper edge entirely slipping below broad preorbital and its distal xpanded extremity half of orbit.
A short oblique groove continued down from lower angle of maxillary when mouth is closed.
Teeth in jaws small sharp pointed and uniserial.
Vomer and palatines with jjatches of minute teeth.
Tongue elongate free and rounded in front its upper surface with minute asperities.
Nostrils small high on snout but nearer eye than tip of former.
Interorbital space elevated giving place to median keel which begins over nostrils and extends to occiput.
18 Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 84.
Vanicolo.
MM.
Quoy and Gaimard.
Amboine.
Java.
Malabar.
i' L. c p. 35.
Amboine.
MM.
Quoy and Gaimard.
Vanicolo.
Preorbital and preopercle with small flutings edge of latter strongly convex.
 Gillopening carried forward below nostrils.
Rakers 1127 compressed slender and longest about f length of longest filaments which are about of orbit.
Pseud obranchia
about half of eye.
Isthmus narrow not trenchant.
Scales small narrowly imbricated and cycloid.
Head naked except cheek and upper posterior side above opercles.
Spinous dorsal with a low basal scaly sheath but those of soft dorsal and anal well developed.
Base of caudal scaled and that of pectoral naked.
Straight portion of lateral line beginning after elevated dorsal rays or at tip of depressed pectoral.
Scutes small deepest 6 in greatest depth of body.
Spinous dorsal small spines slender pungent depressible in a groove and third and fourth nearly equal.
Origin of fin over first fifth of length of pectoral or nearly equal in space between tip of latter and front rim of orbit.
Soft dorsal beginning about over last third of pectoral or nearly midway between tip of mandible and base of caudal.
First few anterior rays elevated and graduated down from first and second developed rays which are longest.
Iast dorsal and anal ray finletlike and longer than preceding.
Anal similar to soft dorsal its origin a little before tip of pectoral or a little nearer base of caudal than front rim of eye.
Anal spines short depressible in a groove posterior longer and origin of fin almost opposite that of soft dorsal.
Caudal forked lobes small and pointed and no keels at their bases.
Pectoral long falcate and its origin nearly level with lower rim of orbit.
Ventral small depressible in a groove and about equal to postocular region.
Anus nearly midway between root of ventral and origin of anal or at tips of ventrals.
Color when fresh in arrack grayishsilvery somewhat slaty above and sides together with lower surface white.
A large deep blueblack blotch on operclc and upper portion of shouldergirdle same color.
Dorsals caudal and pectoral grayish tinged with dull yellow and other fins whitish.
Iris yellowish.
Peritoneum gray.
Length 7f inches.
No.
27508 A. N. S. P. Padang Sumatra.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr...
and Dr. H. M. Hillcr.
Seven examples.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
and Stanford University.
Dr. Giinthcr claims Selar hasseltii Bleeker is furnished with a nar' Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. II 1860 p. 430.
Amboyna.
Mr.
Frank.
 Bleeker Nat.
Tijds.
Ned.
Ind. I 1850 1851 p. 359.
Batavia Cheribort.
Surabaja in mari.
row band of teeth in the upper jaw.
In Blocker's account the maxillary teeth are said to be small equal and conspicuous.
This also agrees with my examples though the transverse diffuse vertical bands were not observed when they were first received.
Dr. Steindachner has um'ted this form with Caranx afflnis Riippcll basing it on Hawaiian material though Ruppell's fish never seems to have been satisfactorily compared.
Caranx xantliurus' appears to be identical but is of later pagination.
ELAPHROTOXON subgeu.
nov.
Type Scomber ruber Bloch.
Subgenus Caranx Jordan and Evermann' is identical.
Their subgenus Tricro'pterus becomes identical with subgenus Caranx as here luiderstoocl.
CEAafpdj shallow oroi bow with reference to the slightly convex anterior portion of lateral line.
Caranx ruber Bloch.
Scomber ruber Bloch Naturg.
Ausl.
Fiscli. VII X 1793 p. 75 PI.
3J2.
Bey der Insel St. Croix.
Dr.
Isert.
One from New Providence Bahamas Coll.
Dr. H. C. Wood.
Subgenus CaRANX Lacepede.
Caranx hippos LinnEeus.
Scomber hippos Ijinnseus Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII Reformata 1766 p. 494.
Carolina.
D.
Garden.
Newport Rhode Island Beasley's Point New Jersey San Domingo West Indies Pernambuco Brazil.
VEXILLICARANX subgen.
nov.
Type Caranx africanus Steindachner.
Inner teeth in each jaw minute ointed equal and forming a narrow band at least in front.
Outer teeth a little enlarged and forming a single series at least in each jaw.
Breast naked.
No opercular spot.
Anterior rays of soft dorsal and anal produced into long slender falcate lobes.
Pectoral long falcate.
Anterior curved portion of lateral line a little less than half of remaining straight portion.
Adipose eyelid rather narrow.
Vexillum streamer Caranx from Carangue French vernacular.
2S72.
Ak.
Wiss.
Wien LXXXIII 1881 p. 211.
2' Neue Wirbelthiere Fisch. 1835 p. 49 PI.
14 fig.
1.
Massaua.
2 Kuhl and Van Hasselt in Cuvier Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 41.
Java.
MM.
Kuhl and Van Hasselt.
 Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Fish.
N. Mid.
Am.
 No.
47 I 1896 p. 916.
Caranz africanus Steindachner.
Sitz.
Ak.
Wiss.
Wien LXXXVIII 1S83 1884 p. 1108 PI.
7 fig.
1.
Goree.
Herr W.
Hofler.
Kiiste Liberia's.
Herr Biittikofer.
Lagos und der LoangoKiiste.
All Coll.
Vienna Mus.
Head 3f  depth 2 D. I VIIII 21 A. III 18 keeled scutes 44 in straight portion of lateral line  fourth erect dorsal spine 2 in head  first developed anal ray 1 ventral damaged about 21 mandible 2 snout 3f in head from tip of upper jaw eye 3 maxillary 2f  interorbital space 3  least depth of caudal peduncle 5.
Maxillary reaching about opposite first f of orbit and its expanded extremity 2 in latter.
Rakers 13  28 slender compressed much longer than filaments or about f of orbit.
Anus a little before tips of ventrals.
Deepest scute about 8 in greatest depth of body.
Long falcate dorsal lobe reaching when depressed at least opposite base of last dorsal ray.
Pectoral 2in head and trunk.
Length 9f inches.
West Africa.
Dr. H. E. Savage.
Subgenus PARATRACTUS Gill.
Caranx crysos Mitchill.
Scomber cryfos Mitchill Trans.
Lit.
Philos.
Soc.
New York I 1815 p. 424 PI.
4 fig.
2.
Bay of New York.
Nantucket Massachusetts and Newport Rhode Island.
Caranx pisquetus Cuvier.
Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833. p. 73.
SaintDomingue.
Cuba.
Bresil.
Head 3f  depth 3i D. VIIII 23 A. III 20 P. ii 20 V. I 5 scales about 46 in lateral line and remaining keeled scutes about 45 about 16 scales between spinous dorsal and lateral line in a vertical series and about 24 between latter and origin of rayed anal similarly width of head lfgin its length depth of head If mandible 2 third dorsal spine 2f  first dorsal ray 1 first anal ray 2 length of ventral 2 snout 3 in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye 5' maxillary 2f  interorbital space 3  least depth of caudal peduncle 7f  pectoral 2 in head and trunk upper caudal lobe 3f .
Body elongate fusiform compressed and greatest depth at origin of anal.
Lower profile a little more convex than upper.
Caudal peduncle slender its least depth about 3 in its length.
Head moderately large robust compressed and upper profile evenly and a little more convex than lower.
Snout a little long convex and upper jaw well protruding in front.
Eye orbicular its lower rim about level with middle of greatest depth and its posterior rim a little posterior in length of head.
Mouth little inclined and mandible produced a little beyond tip of upper jaw.
Lips rather thick and fleshy.
Maxillary reaching at least opposite middle of orbit its distal expanded 78 Jan. extremity equal to about f of orbit and its entire upper edge slipping below prcorbital edge.
Teeth of upper jaw biserial those forming outer series enlarged conic and forming a single series and those inside forming a band of small pointed teeth broadest and mostly developed anteriorly.
Mandibular teeth like outer series in upper jaw and also uniscrial.
A finely asperous small triangle on vomer.
Surfaces of palatines and tongue with broad spaces finely asperous.
Tongue rather elongate thick rounded and free in front.
Nostrils adjoining small slits above middle of orbit in its vertical diameter and also nearer front of same than tip of snout.
Supraocular ridge a litt e pronounced.
Top of head strongly convex and a somewhat obsolete median keel from internasal space to occiput.
Fig.
5.
 Caranx pisquetus Cuvier.
Gillopening carried forward about midway between front of eye and posterior nostril.
Rakers i 15  25 i slender compressed and longest equal to longest filament or aljout f of orbit.
Pseudobranchise about equal to diameter of pupil.
Isthmus with a rather broad groove on lower surface.
Scales small cycloid extending over chest entirely and good portion of all rayed fins basally.
On occipital region small larger on postocular region and again smaller on cheek.
With exception of these regions together with upper side of head and operclc head is naked.
AdiOse eyelid narrow not covering much of iris posteriorly.
No scales on spinous dorsal and anal these fins each depressible in a groove along each side of which a sheath of fine scales is formed.
Anterior rays forming lobes of soft dorsal and anal covered with minute crowded scales.
Bases of anterior and elongated dorsal and anal rays also with scaly sheaths into which fins are more or less depressiblc and on posterior rays scales gradually disappear.
Base of caudal covered with small scales and a cutaneous keel at base of each lobe laterally.
Arch of lateral line about If in straight portion.
Greatest depth of keels or scutes about 8 in greatest depth of body.
Tubes in lateral Hne simple.
An axillary pit at base of ventral.
Spinous dorsal inserted opposite first  of depressed ventral third spine highest and others graduated down.
Soft dorsal lobe higher than spinous fin first ray highest and origin of fin nearer front rim of orbit than base of caudal.
Last dorsal and anal rays longer than those preceding.
Soft anal similar to soft dorsal though inserted nearly midway between base of caudal and posterior rim of orbit.
Anal spine small short second longest and first inserted nearly opposite origin of soft dorsal.
Caudal large forked lobes slender sharply pointed and about equal.
Pectoral long falcate upper ray much longest and reaching well beyond beginning of straight portion of lateral line or dorsal and anal lobes.
Ventral inserted a trifle behind origin of pectoral and reaching over half way to origin of spinous anal.
Spine small slender weak and over half length of first or longest ray.
Anus a little nearer tips of ventrals than origin of spinous anal.
Color in alcohol dull olivaceousbrown above lower surface whitish or pale.
Evident silvery reflections over most of lower regions.
Fins brownish lower ones paler and dorsals and caudal a trifle more brownish.
Iris dull brassy.
Peritoneum pale silvery.
Length L3f inches.
No.
11240 A. N. S. P. San Domingo West Lidies.
Prof. W. M. Gabb.
One example.
This species appears to differ from Caranx crysos chiefly in its more elongate fusiform body higher dorsal and anal rayed lobes and especially the longer pectoral.
I have not had the opportunity of comparing small examples of C. pisquetus.
Subgenus CARANGICHTHYS Bleeker.
Nat.
Tijds.
Ned.
Ind. Ill 1852 p. 760 typus.
Caranx sem Cuvier.
Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 79.
Pondicherv.
M.
Leschenault.
Fowler Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XIl' 2 1904 p. 512 PI.
14 upper figure.
Head 3f  depth 2f  D. VIIII 20 A. III 16 P. ii 18 V. I 5 scales 57 in curved portion of lateral line and about 37 scutes in remaining straight portion  about 24 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and Tipper curved portion of lateral line width of head 2jL in its length depth of head 1 mandible 2 third dorsal spine 2 second dorsal ray 1 second anal ray 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 7 ventral 2J snout 3 from tip of upper jaw eye 3 maxillary 2 interorbital space 3y pectoral 3 in body upper caudal lobe 3.
Bod oblong compressed upper profile a little more convex than lower and greatest depth at origin of soft dorsal.
Caudal peduncle rather long its least depth 2J and in its width 2 in its length.
Head deep compressed and upper profile obliquely convex.
Snout oblique blunt and with upper jaw projecting.
Eye small anterior and with a rather narrow posterior adipose eyelid.
louth o1lique gape reaching below nostrils and mandible projecting beyond upper jaw.
Maxillary reaching opposite anterior margin of pupil with its distal expanded extremity free from prcorbital above and about equal in width to f of eye.
Lips thick and fleshy.
An outer series of enlarged teeth in upper jaw becoming a little larger anteriorly and a double or irregular series of small inner teeth.
Teeth in mandibles subequal rather large and with 6 or more forming a small outer series in front.
Vomer palatines and tongue with patches of minute teeth.
Tongue elongate rounded and free in front.
Nostrils small slits close together lateral high and near front rim of orbit.
Interorbital space rather narrow elevated and with a median trenchant ridge originating above nostrils and continued to occiput.
A low supraocular ridge.
Preorbital broad fluted above and about equal to f of orbit.
Margin and ridge of preopercle oblique.
Gillopening deep extending forward opposite nostrils.
Rakers 7hl6 slender compressed a little shorter than filaments or about half of orbit.
Pseud obranchise rather small.
Isthmus rather narrow with a slight groove.
Scales small cycloid and narrowh imbricated.
Head with exception of cheek upper side and opercle naked.
Base of spinous dorsal with a low scaly sheath and anterior basal portions of soft dorsal and anal with scaly sheaths.
Base of caudal covered with small scales and base of each lobe with a low obsolete ridge.
Base of pectoral naked.
Anterior rays of soft dorsal and anal with small scales.
Lateral line straight after fifth dorsal ray and deepest shields about 8in greatest depth of body.
Origin of spinous dorsal well behind that of pectoral spines rather rigid third longest and all depressiblc in a groove.
Soft dorsal inserted midway between front of orbit and base of caudal anterior rays elevated in a lobe and last ray a little longer than those immediately preceding.
Soft anal similar inserted a little nearer posterior rim of orbit than base of caudal and its base like that of soft dorsal a little convex.
Anal spines small first inserted opposite origin of soft dorsal second longer and both depressible in a groove.
A short keel on abdomen in front reaching to anus.
Caudal small triangular forked and lobes pointed.
Pectoral long falcate and reaching beyond beginning of straight part of lateral line.
Ventral small inserted a little in advance of origin of pectorals and not reaching half way to origin of soft anal.
Anus near tips of ventrals.
Color when fresh in arrack with upper part of body slatygray shot with pale metallic blue and purple lower surface white and washed everywhere with bright silvery.
Upper part of spinous dorsal and upper part of anterior dorsal lobe dusky latter deeper.
Caudal more or less dusky on upper lobe.
Base of pectoral dusky inside.
Fins with these exceptions pale yellowish.
No opercular spot.
Peritoneum silvery.
Length 5f inches.
No.
27514 A. N. S. P. Padang Sumatra.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Two examples.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
and Stanford University.
Close to Caranx latus Agassiz but differing in the more convex profile upper lobe of soft dorsal dusky and tip of upper caudal lobe same color.
Scomber heberi may prove identical.
Caranx marginatus Gill.
Carangus marginatus Gill Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1863 1864 p. 166 Western Coast of Central America.
Capt.
John M.
Dow.
Caranx latus Fowler Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1900 1901 p. 501.
Not of Agassiz.
Head 3i depth 2i D. VIIII 20 A. III 16 scutes in straight part of lateral line 28 width of head 2 in its length third dorsal spine 2h first dorsal ray about If first anal ray about 2 ventral 2 snout 3f in head measmed from its tip eye 4 maxillary 2 interorbital space Z pectoral 3 in head and trunk.
Depth of deepest scute in lateral line about 7 in greatest depth of body.
Maxillary reaching about opposite posterior margin of pupil.
Gillrakers 714 compressed and longest a little longer than filaments or about y of orbit.
Adipose eyehd well developed nearly covering posterior third of head.
A very pale opercular spot at upper corner of gillopening.
Fins all pale except upper portions of anterior dorsal rays which are dusted  Sel.
Gen. Spec.
Pise.
Brasil 1829 p. 105 PI.
566 fig.
1.
Oceano Atlantico.
Museo Monacensi.
 Bennett Fishes of Ceylon Ed.
II 1834 p. 26 PI.
26.
Ceylon.
with brownish.
Length 7j inches.
Two examples from HonoMu Hawaiian Islands collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp.
These were wrongly called Caranx latus by me and are evidently identical with the examples identified as C. marginatus by Dr. Jenkins. Caranx latus Agassiz.
Sel.
Gen. Spec.
Pise.
Brasil. 1829 p. 105 Pl.
'566 fig.
1.
In Oceano AtlanticoBrazil.
Museo Monacensi.
Caranx hippus Cope Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XIV 1871 p. 472.
Not of Linnseus.
Head 3yV depth 2 D. I VIIII 21 A. III 16 scutes 34 in straight part of lateral line  width of head 2 in its length mandible 1 fourth dorsal spine 2 third longest but damaged ventral 2J snout 3f in head measured from its own tip eye 3f  maxillary 22V interorbital space 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 6f pectoral 2i in head and trunk.
Maxillary not quite reaching posterior margin of orbit.
Adipose eyelid covering posterior half of iris only.
Gillrakers 6  16 compressed longest much longer than filaments or about f of orbit.
A pale brownish spot at upper corner of gillopening.
No opercular spot.
Length 8 inches.
Rio Janeiro Brazil.
Drs.
Ruschenberger and Turner.
Other examples also from San Domingo West Indies and Surinam.
Young examples from Culebra Porto Rico received from the U. S. Fish Commission show spinous dorsal blackish.
Side of trunk with five pale plumbeousgray transverse bands extending down below lateral line and fading out on abdomen.
First a little narrow and beginning from origin of spinous dorsal.
Second extending from posterior base of spinous dorsal and crossing curved part of lateral line.
Third much broader and crossing straight part of lateral line anteriorly.
Fourth extending from middle of base of rayed dorsal and fifth from bases of posterior rays.
Some examples show a rather indistinct or diffuse grayishbrown streak sloping down anteriorly through eye to end of maxillary.
CARANGOIDES Bleeker.
Nat.
Tijds.
Ned.
Ind. I 1850 1851 pp.
343 352 prceustus.
Originally Scyris Alectis and Citula were included.
No t3'pe is indicated though the first species mentioned prceustus was probably intended.
Carangoides plagiotcvnia cannot be used as it was not discovered till later.
 2 Bull U. S. Fish Comm. XXII 1902 1904 p. 444.
.4c Soc.
Sci.
Ind.
Neerl.
Acht.
Bijd.
Visch.
Amboina II 1857 p. 59.
Carangoides malabaricus Schneider.
Scomber malabaricus Schneider Syst.
Ichth.
Bloch 1801 p. 31.
Habitat cum antecedente which is ad Tranquebariam.
Head SyV depth 2 D. VIIII 22 A. III 18 scales 65 in lateral line and scutes about 30 pectoral 1 in head ventral about 4 snout 3 from tip of upper jaw eye 2 maxillary 2 interorbital space 3.
Gillrakcrs 11  22 and a little longer than filaments.
Scutes small and weak.
Color when fresh in arrack slatybrown above top of head grayish or leaden greater portion of sides and all of lower surface whitish washed everywhere with silvery.
Upper edge of opercle with a small blackish spot.
Axil of pectoral brownish.
Fins plain or dilute brownish.
Length 4yginches.
Padang Sumatra.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Two examples.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
and Stanford University.
Carangoides oblongas Cuvier.
Caranx oblongus Cuvier Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 96.
Vanicolo.
MM.
Quoy and Gaimard.
Oualan.
M. de Mertens.
Head 3 depth 2A D. VIIII 21 A. III 18 scales 59 in lateral line and scutes 39 snout 3 in head  eye3f maxillary 24 interorbital space 4 ventral about 2 pectoral 21in body without caudal.
Gillrakers 7  16 ii long compressed and about equal to filaments of half of eye.
Color when fresh in arrack leadengray above silverywhite below and everywhere more or less silvery.
On back between bases of each fin ray a bluishgray blotch.
Basal portion of anterior soft dorsal and anal rays tinged with pale yellowish.
Length 11 inclies.
Padang Sumatra.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Two examples.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
and Stanford University.
CITULA Cuvier.
Regne Animal Ed.
I II 1817 p. 31.5 armata.
Cuvier I.e. Ed.
II II 1829 p. 209 Subgenus CITULA Cuvier.
Vcntrals short and pale.
Straight portion of lateral line beginning well beyond origin of soft dorsal.
Citula armata Forskil.
Scicena armata Fonskal Descript.
Animal. 1775 p. 53.
Red Sea. Citula atropoii Fowler Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XII 2 1904 p. 513 PI.
14 lower figure to left.
Not of Schneider.
Head 3yV depth 2 D. VIIII 22 A. III 18 P. ii 19 V. I 5 scales 95 in curved portion of lateral line and about 32 in remaim'ng short straight portion about 25 scales between soft dorsal and upper curved portion of lateral line width of head 2f in its length depth of head greater than length mandible 2 third dorsal spine 2f  first dorsal ray 1 first anal ray 1 upper caudal lobe 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 6 ventral 2 snout 2f from tip of upper jaw eye 3f  maxillary 2f  interorbital space 3 pectoral 2f in head and trunk.
Body rather oblong deep compressed and greatest depth at origin of soft dorsal.
Caudal peduncle small its depth 2 and its width 2 in its length.
Head deep compressed and upper profile oblique slightly convex at first and then more so at occiput.
Lower profile less convex than upper.
Snout broad oblique compressed slightly prominent and with upper jaw a little protruded.
Eye large a trifle anterior and without adipose eyelid.
Mouth oblique small curved and gape reaching about f in vertical to anterior nostril.
Mandible projecting well beyond upper jaw.
Maxillary free distally its expanded portion 2 in eye and reaching below posterior nostril but not to orbit.
Lips rather broad and thick.
Teeth minute and in bands in jaws.
Patches of minvite asperities on vomer palatines and tongue.
Tongue broad rather long obtusely rounded and free in front.
Nostrils close together high lateral and much nearer upper rim of orbit than tip of snout.
Interorbital space broad well elevated and giving place to a high median trenchant keel extending to spinous dorsal.
Preorbital broad with several radiating flutings above and its width about 4 of orbit.
Gillopening deep extending forward opposite nostrils.
Rakers 7  16 II long slender compressed asperous on inner surfaces and longest half of eye.
Filaments f of longest raker and pseudobranchise a little shorter.
Isthmus compressed edge not sharp.
Scales minute narrowly imbricated and crowded on back in front.
Chest and base of pectoral naked.
Cheeks and upper posterior side of head scaly otherwise naked.
A low scaly sheath along base of spinous dorsal.
Soft dorsal and anal except last few rays with rather high or broad basal scaly sheaths.
Caudal with small scales on its base and a low ridge at base of each lobe.
Ventral with a deep basal fissure and a row of scales running back from its upper basal portion.
Lateral line concurrent with back till opposite middle of base of soft dorsal and then straight to base of caudal.
Scutes small weak deepest about  least depth of caudal peduncle.
Origin of spinous dorsal but little behind that of pectoral third ray longest and all depressible in a low groove.
Soft dorsal with first ray elongate and those anteriorly also elevated though much shorter.
Last dorsal and anal rays much longer than those immediately preceding.
Origin of soft dorsal nearly midway between front rim 'of orbit and base of caudal.
Soft anal similar to soft dorsal but its origin a short distance posterior.
Anal spines short small second largest and first inserted about opposite origin of soft dorsal.
Short bony keel extending forward to tips of ventrals from origin of spinous anal.
Caudal triangular rather large and lobes pointed.
Pectoral long falcate and nearly reaching beginning of straight portion of lateral line.
Ventral inserted below origin of pectoral and reaching a little over half way to origin of soft anal.
Anus midway between bases of ventrals and origin of spinous anal.
Color when fresh in arrack leaden or grayishbrown above shot with bluish and purple and silverywhite extending over lower surface.
Basal portions of anterior rays of soft dorsal and anal tinged with pale yellowish.
Spinous dorsal and upper portions of soft dorsal dusky.
Upper front edge of caudal lobe dusky.
Fins otherwise dilute yellowish.
A small brown opercular spot.
Peritoneum pale.
Iris pale yellowish.
Length 11 inches.
No.
27519 A. N. S. P. Padang Sumatra.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Four examples.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
and Stanford University.
Two are young which I wrongly identified as Citula atropos Schneider.
The larger of the latter shows Head 3 depth lyV DVIIII 21  A. II1 17 P. ii 19 V. I 5 scales 82 in lateral line and scutes 28 pectoral 1 in head ventral 1 snout 3 from tip eye 3 maxillary 2 interorbital space 3.
Gillrakers 7  16 slender and compressed.
Color when fresh in arrack pale leaden or slatygray on back and upper surface lower side and under surface white.
Body everywhere more or less silvery especially below.
Side with five broad pale gray vertical bars.
Spinous dorsal blackish.
Dorsal dusky above other fins except ventral dilute yellowish.
Ventral black deepest distally and basal portions pale.
This species originally from the Red Sea has not been compared with Sumatran examples.
The latter agree with Cuvier's figure except that only the first dorsal ray is elongate and the others are not prolonged into filaments.
Caranx cirrhosus Cuvier' also lacks dorsal and anal filaments and an opercular spot.
It is also supposed to be identical.
Russell's figure of Tchawil parah is apparently based on ' Olistus malabaricus Cuvier Rdgne Animal Ed.
PI.
Grav. Poiss. IS   Pi.
58. lia mer Rouge.
2' Ehrenberg in Cuvier Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 94 PI.
250.
Fishes of Coromandel.
II 1803 p. 38 PI.
151.
Vizagapatam.
young examples of this species though much older than my younger ones as the ventral is represented as short.
SCYRIS Cuvier.
Regne Animal Ed.
II II 1829 p. 209 alexandrina.
Soyris alexandrina St. Hilaire.
Gallus alexandrinus Geoffroy St. Hilaire Faune de Egj'pt Zool. 1S09 PI.
22 fig.
2.
Egypt.
Text not consulted.
Head 3 depth H D. I IVI 21 A. I 18 P. ii 17 V. I 5 scales about 134 in lateral line several on base of caudal mandible 2y iii head snout 2 measured from its own tip not tip of upper jaw eye 3f maxillary 3 interorbital space 4 least depth of caudal peduncle 5 ventral damaged 2f.
Gillrakers 10125 compressed longest much longer than longest filaments or a trifle over half of orit.
Pseudobranchise equal to filaments.
Rather narrow bands of nearly even small teeth in jaws.
A small patch of similar ones also on vomer.
Orbit f depth of preorbital.
Length 8f inches.
Two examples from Beirut Syria.
The original figme is good.
Gdlichtys cegyptiacus Cuvier is probably the young.
It is also possible that Hynnis goreensis Cuvier may be different though suggested as identical by Liitken. The adult of Hynnis would differ at all ages in not having the anterior soft dorsal and anal rays produced into filaments.
Soyris indioa RuppeU.
Scyris indicus Ruppell Atlas zu der Reise im nordlichen Afrika Zool. 1828 p. 128 PI.
33 fig.
1.
Djetta.
Mus.
Francos.
Head 3 depth 2 D. I 19 A. I 16 P. ii 16 V. I 5 width of head about 3 in its length least depth of caudal peduncle Ih ventral 2J snout 2 in head measured obliquely from tip of upper jaw to upper angle of opercle eye 4 maxillary 3 interorbital space 4 pectoral 2f in body upper caudal lobe about 3f.
Tongue long narrow rounded and free in front its upper smface finely asperous.
Gillrakers 823 short compressed broad and longest about If in longest filament.
Filaments 2 in orbit.
Pseudobranchise about 5 in orbit.
Scales developed about shoulder behind eye and on base of caudal.
A few small scales along bases of soft dorsal and anal in front.
First dorsal ray reaching back opposite base of last.
Color when fresh in arrack more or less silverywhite glaucous or slatygray on upper surface.
Outer edge of membrane between rays of dorsal  Ehrenberg in Cuvier Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 131.
32 L. c p. 145.
Gore.
M.
Rang.
 Kon.
Dansk.
Vid.
Sehk.
Skrift.
SpoHa Atlantica XII 1880 p. 53842 605. blackish and long dorsal lobe dark like outer portions of caudal lobe.
A small blackish spot on edge of opercle and a brown blotch over eye.
Length 17 inches.
Padang Sumatra.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Three examples.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
and Stanford Um'versity.
Two are young much deeper and also have much longer anterior dorsal and anal rays.
Ventral filamentous reaching base of caudal.
When fresh in arrack color was silvery glaucous or slatygray above.
Side with six broad bands of darker glaucous fading out below.
Outer portions of all prolonged rays of dorsal and anal blackish.
Ventral entirely black other fins pale.
They agree perfectly with examples from Cavite Philippine Islands in Stanford University and also with the examples recorded from Formosa as Alcctis ciliaris by Drs.
Jordan and Evermann as I found when compared.
Alectis crinitus Mitchill.
Zeus crinitus Mitchill Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
Art. XI 182G p. 144.
Block Island.
Newport Rhode Island Key West Florida and San Domingo West Indies.
Alectis ciliaris Bloch the Indian form may be different.
Vomer setapinnis Mitchill.
Zeus setapinnis Mitchill Trans.
Lit.
Philos.
Soc.
New York I 1815 p. 384 PI.
1 fig.
9.
Bay of New York.
Vomer curtus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1870 p. 119.
North American Atlantic coast the precise locality not recorded.
Bonaparte Coll. A. N. S. P. Head 3 depth Iji D. iiIVI 23 A. I.
19.
Gillrakers 8  23 compressed longest about f of orbit and longest filament about f of longest raker.
Length 9f inches.
West coast of Africa probably at Gabun river.
Dr. J. L. Leconte.
Also another with same data but smaller.
It has 25 soft dorsal rays and would appear to differ from Vomer dorsalis only in its greater depth.
Dr. Steindachner who has examined the types of Vomer goreensis Guichenot and Vomer senegalensis Guichenot long ago concluded that they were identical with Vomer setapinnis Mitchill. He also pointed out the fact that Vomer gabonensis Guichenot represents a distinct species.
Panama examples of about 8 inches in length have  Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXV 1903 p. 338.
 Zeus ciliaris Bloch Naturg.
Ausl.
Fisch. Ill VI 1787 p. 36 PI.
191.
Suratte.
India.
Doctor Konig.
I have not been able to consult Rafinesque's account of Alectis in Analyse de la Nature ou Tableau de L'Univers et des Corps Organises 1815.
 Sitz.
Ak.
Wiss.
Wien LX 1869 1870 p. 706. the depth about 2 22 and 23 dorsal and 18 anal rays.
Coll.
Dr. W. S. W. Ruschcnberger.
An example from Rio Janeiro Brazil about 8f inches long has depth Ij 21 dorsal and 17 anal rays.
Drs.
Ruschenberger and Turner.
Examples from Newport Rhode Island of same size and smaller have depth ranging from If to 2 dorsal with 22 or 23 and anal with 17 or 18 rays.
Coll.
Samuel Powel.
Other examples from Maryland and South Carolina.
Type of Vomer curtus Cope from the Atlantic coast of eastern North America is the same Bonaparte Coll.
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
The specific denomination of this fish though not correctly spelled had best be adopted.
Vomer spixii Swainson.
Platysomus spixii Swainson Lardner's Cab.
Cyclop.
Nat.
Hist. II 1839 p. 406.
Based on Vomer hrownii Agassiz Sel.
Gen. Spec.
Pise.
Brasil 1829 p. 110 PI.
57.
Oceano Atlantico.
Brazil.
Museo Monacensi.
Head 2 depth U D. VIIII 22 A. I IS.
Gillrakers 7  27 compressed longest much longer than filaments or about f of orbit.
Length 7f inches.
Many from San Domingo West Indies.
Prof. W. M. Gabb.
St. Thomas West Indies from Henry Warrington.
Selene vomer Linnseus.
Zeus vomer Linnieus Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 1758 p. 266.
America.
Surinam Tobago British West Indies San Domingo West Indies Fort Macon North Carolina Beasley's Point and Squan river New Jersey.
A young example agrees with Liitken's figure. Lat.
20 N. long.
105 W. southern part of Gulf of Mexico.
Dr. William H. Jones.
J  jon.
Dansk.
Vid.
Selsk.
SkHft.
Spolia Atlantica XII 1880 PI.
5 fig.
1.
THE MOVEMENTS OF GREGARINES.
BY HOWARD CRAWLEY.
For the proper comprehension of the movements displayed by gregarines it is advisable first to consider the form and anatomy of the animals.
In a species like Porospora gigantea Van Beneden the ratio of length to breadth is 501 whereas Lophocephalus insignis Aime Schn.
is nearly spherical.
It is obvious that the first of these two species can display movements of contortion which the second cannot.
These are extreme cases but gregarines may roughly be divided into long slender and short stout species and in a discussion of their movements it is well to keep in mind the limitations to flexibility imposed on the latter merely on account of their shape.
Further limitations are imposed by the anatomical structure.
From without inward a polycystid gregarine displays epicyte sarcocyte myocyte and entocyte.
The epicyte is a cuticular layer the function of which is protective.
It is always present and varies considerably in thickness in the different species.
The sarcocyte is a layer of clear protoplasm which in a typical case is continuous over the entire animal.
This condition exists in such genera as Gregarina Stenophora and Amphoroides.
Frequently however the sarcocyte is lacking except for the septum which it constitutes and in the immediately adjacent parts.
These two layers may collectively be termed the ectosarc.
The myocyte is described by some authors as a part of the ectosarc by others as a part of the endosarc entocyte.
It is made up of a layer of fibrils.
Of these the more conspicuous encircle the animal in a slightly spiral direction.
The circular fibres are joined together by longitudinal and diagonal connectives the whole system forming a net.
The entocyte of gregarines is probably much like that of other protozoa.
It is composed of soft distinctly alveolar protoplasm liberally provided with the socalled granules of reserve.
It will be seen from the above that the ectosarc of gregarines may vary greatly in thickness.
We may have a species in which both the component layers are thick.
On the other hand the epicyte may be thin and the sarcocyte absent.
We probably have here an explanation for the difference in the rigidity of gregarines.
Some species such as Stenophora jidipusiUi Leidy tend to maintain a certain definite shape.
Changes of this shape may be extensive but are usually of short duration.
Further the contortions are of such a character that the true form is by no means disguised and the resumption of this true form is always a very sudden process.
We may conclude from this that the ectosarc is stiff and elastic.
Under the force of the contractile elements it may suffer contortion but as soon as the force is released the proper form is rcsvmied with a sudden jerk.
The comparison may be made with a hollow indiarubber ball or perhaps better it may be said that these grcgarines behave as if their ectosarc were composed of indiarubber.
They may further be compared with such ciliates as ParamcEcium at least in so far as regards the sudden resumption of the normal contour after a deformation.
On the other hand gregarines like Trichorhynchus pulcher Aime Schn.
are highly polymorphic.
Different individuals present cuite different outlines and these outlines are subject to continual and extensive changes.
Their movements may not inaptly be termed amoeboid.
All polycystid gregarines possess what may be designated as a typical outline but it is often difficult in these polymorphic species to determine what this typical outline may be.
Their ectosarc while extremely flexible and extensible does not appear to possess any elasticity.
In consequence deformation may be carried to such an extent as to render the typical form wholly unrecognizable nor is there ever seen that sudden resumption of the typical form so often displayed by such species as Stenophora julipusilli.
This difference appears to be due mainly to the sarcocyte.
Usually in these polymorphic animals the ectosarc consists of epicyte alone.
Further the epicyte may be thin.
The facts then are in accord with what we should expect on mechanical principles.
The elastic species possess a sarcocyte the polymorphic do not.
It may therefore be inferred that the elasticity is due to the sarcocyte and confirmatory evidence is furnished by the Monocystidea.
These animals which are frequently highly polymorphic appear generally to lack a sarcocyte.
The rule however is not absolute since Stenophora iCnemidospora spiroholi Crawley the protomerite of which is very flexible possesses a thick sarcocyte.
Obviously the ability of a gregarine to display changes of form depends upon two factors. These are the flexibility of its ectosarc and the power of the contractile elements.
It has been shown that ' There is possibly a third factor as will be pointed out below.
great differences exist in the first of these in different gregarincs.
I shall now consider the contractile element.
This is evidently the myocyte.
The evidence that the myocyte is contractile is purely inferential but none the less satisfactory.
The fibre is the form always taken by differentiated contractile substance.
Other protozoa ciliates and flagellates show like elements and most of the movements displayed by polycystid grcgarines are comprehensible only by assuming the myocyte to be a contractile system.
On the other hand certain movements exhibited by the polymorphic species cannot so readily be explained in this way as I shall presently show.
Confining our attention for the moment to these movements for which the myocyte seems an adequate cause they are found to be displayed by all gregarines.
They are however as we should expect far more definite in the elastic than in the polymorphic species.
The most usual are mere bendings of the longitudinal axis the character and extent of which appear to depend largely upon the shape of the gregarine and the nature of its eclosarc.
The least extensive are bendings of the protomerite which may take place in any plane.
These may be so slight as to be difficult to detect or so extensive that the axis of the protomerite comes to form a right angle with that of the deutomerite.
They readily lead to a distortion wherein the angle in the longitudinal axis is formed in the deutomerite instead of at the septum.
This may be a right angle even in such relatively thick species as Stenophora julipusilli Leidy.
In Gregarina dicceli Crawley which is a vermiform gregarine with a thin epicyte and no sarcocyte this distortion becomes more evident.
The protomerite and anterior part of the deutomerite bend round to form a hook the anterior surface of the protomerite being directed backward.
As the point in the longitudinal axis where the original bending takes place moves further and further backward the hook becomes larger and larger until the gregarine forms a U.
This U may pass into a circle and the circle into a coil or a spiral.
Gregarina polydesmivirginiensis Leidy displays contortions of exactly the same character.
Animals such as S. julipusilli Leidy frequently bend double but the circular or coiled condition cannot well be assimied by any but the long slender gregarines.
When only the protomerite is involved the movement is frequently first to one side and then to the other.
This may also happen when the anterior part of the deutomerite participates along with the proto According to Lger et Duboscq 1903 this species belongs to the genus Stenophora since it stands very close to the Stenophora nematoidesoi these authors.
merite.
Occasionally also it is the posterior part of the deutomerite which is bent the balance of the animal maintaining its original position.
Yet however varied these bendings may be they are all of them only contortions whereby the longitudinal axis loses its original straightness.
Their cause is contractions of the myocyte.
It is easy to see how such contortions could be produced by a shortening of the longitudinal fibres of one side possibly aided by a contraction of the transverse fibres at the place where the bendings originate.
This pull on the part of the myocyte is resisted by the ectosarc to a greater or less extent contingent upon its rigidity and elasticity.
This is shown by the suddenness with which the ectosarc springs back to its original position which presumably takes place when the pull exerted by the myocyte ceases to act.
The behavior of the ectosarc in such a case is as previously stated precisely what it would be were it composed of indiarubber.
The following point is also worthy of note.
When a gregarine begins to curve one side is lengthened and the other shortened.
The ectosarc is evidently capable of a certain amount of contraction since a crescentic form may be assumed with the shortened side still presenting a smooth contour.
But if the bending be carried to any considerable extent the inner surface folds the number and depth of these folds depending upon the shape of the gregarine and the extent of the curvature.
This shows that the power of the ectosarc to contract is limited.
A movement of the same general character as the bending is one whereby the longitudinal axis is shortened.
It consists in the pulling of the protomerite into the deutomerite as one may withdraw the hand into the sleeve.
I have noticed this in a number of species although it is by no means so frequently seen as the bending.
It is displayed indifferently by animals which are progressing and those which are not.
As in the case of the bending the return to the typical shape in the elastic species is by a sudden jerk.
This movement is explainable by a shortening of the longitudinal fibres around a given zone of the animal's body.
There is finally the socalled peristalsis.
This as defined by Delage et Herouard 1896 consists of Contractions peristaltiques produites par un etranglement transversal qui se propage le long du corps.
It does not however admit of quite so simple a definition.
It may be a swelling instead of a constriction.
Further it frequently happens that instead of a series of such constrictions or swellings there will be but one which passes from the region of the septum to the posterior end of the animal.
In the typical associations as in Gregarina this movement is described as passing from the anterior end of the primite to the posterior end of the satellite without the slightest pause.
We have here a demonstration that it is not due to endoplasmic movements.
In general the conspicuousness of the peristaltic movement depends on the character of the cctosarc.
In the stiff clastic forms this movement is by no means common and when it does occur it generally consists of a single contraction.
On the other hand it is well displayed by the polymorphic species with thin ectosarcs.
In one species Actinocephalus harpali Crawley I have frequently observed a disposition to rumple the edges of the body so that they present a scries of scallops.
These scallops were seen to undergo slow changes in size and sometimes they moved slowly backward.
I take this to be a peristaltic movement although much slower than is usual.
The cause throughout is probably contractions of the circular fibres.
Further following the division which I have made the peristaltic movement comes under the head of shortenings of the longitudinal axis.
The above are all the movements involving change of shape which can with absolute certainty be credited to contractions of the myocyte.
They result in varied and frequently considerable alterations of the contour of the animal but they can all be placed in two categories  1 Bendings and curvings of the longitudinal axis.
2 Shortenings of the longitudinal axis.
The two may and doubtless frequently do take place at once but apparently the first is by far the more frequent expression of the contractility of the myocyte.
There now remain for consideration a series of phenomena displayed by the polymorphic forms wherein the Polycystidea approximate the conditions normal to the Monocystidea.
Of the several species which I have observed they are best illustrated by Trichorhynchus pulcher Aime Schn.
This animal changes shape as readily as Euglena or even Amceha.
The anterior margin of the protomerite may present a straight edge a curve or a long tongueshaped protrusion.
The posterior end of the deutomerite may be bluntly rounded sharply pointed or even bifurcated.
The animal may also be so contorted as to lose all semblance to a polycystid gregarine and to present the kind of outline we associate with Amoeba.
These changes take place constantly and by no means slowly but always gradually.
Stenophora spiroboli Crawley another polymorphic species has to be watched very patiently before the true form can be made out.
It constantly displays contortions which are most conspicuous at the anterior end and these contortions are of such a character that it is wholly impossible to say whether a given point of the surface is protomerite or deutomerite.
From this end moreover little lobopodia were seen to arise and disappear.
In the case of a small gregarine from Lithohius a very noteworthy movement was seen.
This expressed itself as a slight peristalsis the wave being evident at times on only one side.
It was accompanied by a flow en masse of the granules of the entocyte.
This flow starting at the posterior part of the deutomerite would pass forward until it struck the septum.
Here the granular mass was deflected backward the peristalsis being reversed at the same instant.
In one case the nucleus was carried forward and backward along with the granules.
This movement was seen both in animals that were progressing and those which were not.
It was displayed constantly but was generally very much faster when the animal was progressing.
In one observation made however the gregarine showing this movement had its progression suddenly checked by striking an obstruction and here the flow and peristalsis continued with unabated vigor.
Frequently when gregarines are pinched by passing through narrow places or when they bend the entocyte is seen to flow.
But in no other case amongst the Folycystidea which has ever come under my notice was the flowing anything like so free and extensive.
These gregarines were very favorable for a study of the movements of the entocyte since the number of granules was remarkably few and their flowing easy to observe.
A somewhat similar peristaltic movement was once seen in Trichorhynchus pulcher Aime Schn.
Here the gregarine lying in one place the wave arose at the posterior end and passed forward.
The movements on both sides were not synchronous.
It differed from the case just described in that there was no reversal the movement being continuously forward .
The protrusion of the long tongueshaped process by T. pulcher and of the lobopodia by S. spiroboli are not satisfactorily credited to activity of the myocyte.
Such an action would appear to involve the spontaneous lengthening of relaxed fibres which is scarcely possible.
But even if it did not the form of the mjocyte which is that of a finemeshed net would not seem to lend itself to such movements.
They would necessitate an enormous elongation of a very small part of the system and would thus predicate a complexity of action which we could hardly expect in so simple an apparatus.
Without however desiring to prejudice the decision it is advisable to see if an explanation may not be had along different lines.
The formation of pseudopodia in rhizopods is due to movements of the endosarc and in gregarines the endosarc is evidently mobile.
It may therefore be suggested that the polymorphism of certain of the Polycystidea is caused in the same way as it is in Rhizopoda.
An endoplasmic flow if by chance it were directed radially would evidently result in such protrusions as are actually seen in Trichorhynchus.
For it is to be remembered that such forms have a thin extensible ectosarc which would offer little resistance to such a flow.
The difficulty in arriving at a decision is that the endosarc of most polycystids is so opaque that flowing movements might take place without it being possible to detect them.
As I have already stated the little gregarine of Lithobius is the only species at all favorable for a study of this element which has yet come under my notice.
In the Monocystidea however the conditions are more favorable.
Flowing of the endosarc is a matter of common observation and it has generally been taken to be the cause of their polymorphism.
While this may be so my own observations on monocystids lead me to question it.
These were made on a species of Diplocystis a parasite of Allolobophora longa.
This gregarine has the form of a serpent.
In the cases observed movements were constant.
There would appear at any point of the body a swelling which passed rapidly either forward or backward.
The endoplasm fills this swollen part flowing into it in front and out of it behind.
Two such swellings may arise simultaneously and advancing toward each other amalgamate.
The large swelling thus produced would maintain a fixed size for a moment and then from its central part two streams would start in opposite directions and the swelling would rapidly disappear.
In one case the peripheral granules in a swelling moved along with it while those in the centre moved in the opposite direction.
An individual of this species was observed to burst' permitting the escape of a portion of the granular contents.
The ectosarc thereupon contracted and showed very plainly a series of strise parallel and spirally disposed.
Evidently these stria were the expression of a powerful myocyte.
Contractions of the myocyte would produce a flowing of the endoplasm flowing of the endoplasm would result in extensions of the limiting layer.
Hence on purely a priori grounds the one explanation has as much claim to consideration as the other.
In the case of the phenomena just described however it seems far more reasonable to credit them to muscular action.
They were movements evidently to be compared with the peristalsis of the Polycystidea which as I have pointed out cannot be credited to endoplasmic currents.
Moreover they were so rapid and so evidently powerfvil that a comparison with what we see in Amoeha fails.
Further if they were caused by endoplasmic movements the myocyte is left without a function which is a most improbable supposition.
It therefore seems more probable that the polymorphism of the Monocystidea is due to muscular action.
Hence by analogy the polymorphism of the Polycystidea should be accounted for in the same way.
Nevertheless as I have indicated this view has certain objections and the decision is better postponed until additional data arc obtained.
In an article on the progression of gregarines Crawley 1902.
I endeavored to show that when the protomerite of a gregarine is bont to one side or the other the siuface of the deutomerite shows a wave which passes backward and transversely at the same time.
My observations also indicated that the extent of the bending of the protomerite conditioned the extent of this wave.
Further when the bending of the protomerite was first to one side and then to the other that is when it oscillated the transverse component of the wave on the smface of the deutomerite was also first to one side and then to the other.
I therefore regard these two manifestations of activity as due to the same contraction of the myocyte.
That is a contraction wnich causes the protomerite to bend causes also this wave to pass over the surface of the deutomerite.
Certain criticisms which have been made upon this paper lead me to suppose that I did not bring out this point as clearly as desirable.
I shall therefore make use of a comparison.
If we bare the forearm and then slowly close the fingers tightly a muscular wave passes upward and outward along the dorsal surface of the arm.
By alternately contracting and relaxing the fingers this wave exhibits an alternate transverse movement.
In this case the conspicuous result of muscular contraction is the closing or opening of the hand but it is necessarily correlated with the disturbance on the surface of the forearm.
In the gregarine the oscillation of the protomerite is the conspicuous manifestation of muscular activity and under ordinary conditions of observation the only one which is seen.
But it is always accompanied by the wave on the surface of the deutomerite.
The result is that a given point on the gregarine's surface pushes backward and transversely upon whatever may be in contact with it.
This brings about a movemerit of the entire animal in an opiDOsitc direction.
The movement will be rectilinear or zigzag dependent on the less or greater extent of the transverse movement.
This last in its turn depends on the extent of the oscillation of the protomcrite.
Hence when the gregarine is advancing in a straight line the evidence for muscular action is very slight.
My observations also indicated that gregarines arc sticky and that they do not seem able to progress unless in contact with a surface.
I was therefore led to postulate the stickiness as more or less of a necessity in progression its role being to prevent slipping of the particular part in contact with either the slide or coverglass.
Later observatioixs however have led me to modify this opinion.
Contact appears necessary but not necessarily contact with a continuous surface.
The observations were as follows The host intestine was teazed on a coverglass under a limited quantity of salt solution.
The coverglass was then inverted and supported on a ring.
In this way a mount having considerable depth was obtained.
The results were to show that gregarines are able to progress away from a surface provided they can get into contact with some solid matter.
One originally moving on the surface film on the bottom of the drop pushed its way upward through the particles of host intestine.
In such cases however progression is slow and apparently difficult and accompanied by constant and violent contortions.
It may moreover be stated that in proportion as the environment renders progression more difficult the evidences for muscular activity become more obvious.
Thus when an advancing gregarine encounters a mass of loose host tissue it frequently endeavors to bore or wriggle its way through and muscular contractions at once become very extensive.
The abihty of gregarines to make their way amidst particles of solid in a hanging drop suggests that in some cases at least progression is effected in somewhat the same way as that of a snail.
The presence of an adhesive substance on the surface may assist but the primary factor is the alterations of the contour of the surface.
These are doubtless by no means so regular as those of the foot of a snail nor is gregarine progression usually so smooth.
Yet without going into tedious details it is easy enough to see how such movements could produce progression.
When however progression is being effected on a smooth surface the adhesive substance probably plays a part.
A curious phenomenon was once exhibited by a little gregarine of Scolopocryptops sexspinosus.
This is a very active species progressing 7 continually in straight lines and curves of long radius.
It would occasionally give a sudden jerk and advance by perhaps its own length by a leap.
This ability to leap was never seen in any other species.
There finally remains for consideration what is probably a form of the progressive movement.
Prior to cucystment gregarincs pair the association in a genus like Gregarina being apparently only precocious pairing.
It may be head to tail as in Gregarina or head to head as in Pterocephalus.
In either case the pair bends double at its middle point thus 1ringing the gregarines side by side.
Before or during this last process the system begins to rotate.
During the course of this rotation the two individuals become more and more closely apposed until a spherical form is assumed.
Meanwhile a common covering is secreted the cyst formed and eventually the rotatory movement ceases.
This movement is generally mentioned by those authors who have made observations on the encystment of gregarines but no attempt appears to have been made to account for it.
Biitschli 1881 however states that muscular contractions are to be observed at the time when the two animals begin to fuse.
The explanation advanced by Schewiakoff that gregarines progress by means of the extension of a stalk of gelatinous fibres is here manifestly inapplicable.
Further since according to the accounts the rotation continues until after a certain amount of a gelatinous investment is secreted changes of surface contour would not seem to be of effect.
One point however is worthy of attention.
The rotation both in nature and when the gregarines arc on the slide doubtless takes place when the animals are suspended in a liquid.
The only opposition which the rotation encounters is then the friction of this liquid and this would be almost infinitesimal.
That is it does not seem necessary to assume that the impulse lasts as long as the rotation itself.
The latter once started would continue of its own momentum for probably a considerable period of time.
Accurate observations are nevertheless a desideratum and as I have stated these are yet to be made.
I have however at times observed a rotation on the part of solitary gregarines.
One case was particularly striking.
The gregarines specimens of Trichorhynchus pulcher Aime Schn. holding the body bent moved around the circumference of a circle.
The curved longitudinal axis of the animals formed an arc of this circumference the radius of which was perhaps onehalf the animal's length.
That part of the circumference not occupied by the gregarine was filled with a mass of sundry small particles the movements of which followed that of the gregarine.
That is there was evidently present a ringshaped mass of invisible jelly which was continuous from the anterior to the posterior end of the gregarine.
In this case although the conditions for observation were favorable no cause for the motion could be detected.
I have also seen individuals of Stenophora julipusilli exhibit this rotation.
These phenomena while not in any way explaining the cause of the rotatory motion show that it is not necessarily correlated with encystment.
It is merely one of the several phases of the mobility of gregarines ordinarily most conspicuously in evidence at the time of encystmcnt.
It has been the custom to separate these several phases and to treat them as whoUy distinct phenomena.
This custom I believe to be unfortunate.
It appears to me that all the motor phenomena which the Polycystidea display may be directly credited to contractions of the myocyte with the possible exception of the amoeboid movements of certain species and the rotation.
For these observational evidence is required before pronouncing a final decision.
Bibliography.
BuTSCHLi O.
1881.
Kleine Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Gregarinen.
Zeit.
f. luiss.
Zool Bd.
35 pp.
384409 Taf.
20 u.
21.
Crawley Howard.
1902.
The Progressive Movements of Gregarines.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Philadelphia January 1902 pp.
420 PI.
1 2.
Delage et Herotjard.
1896.
Traite de Zoologie Concrete.
Tom.
I La Cellide et Les Protozoaires Paris.
Leger et Duboscq.
1903.
Recherches sur les Myriapodes de Corse et leurs Parasites.
Archiv.
de Zool.
exper.
et gen. 4 Vol.
I pp.
307358.
Schewiakoff V. 1894.
Ueber die Ursache der fortschreitenden Bewegung der Gregarinen.
Zeit.
f. wiss.
Zool Bd.
58 pp.
340354 Taf.
20 u.
21.
February 7.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Twentytwo persons present.
The deaths of the following members were announced  George M. Stiles M.D. June 9 1904 WilHam Sellers January 24 1905 and Albrecht Jahn February 6 1905.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication New Japanese Marine Mollusca by Henry A. Pilsbry.
Mollusca of the Southern States I by Henry A. Pilsbry.
Mollusks of Flint and Caroline Islands in the Central Pacific by Henry A. Pilsbry and Edward G. Vanatta.
A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Centrarchidse by Henry W. Fowler.
February 21.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Twentythree persons present.
The deaths of Jay Cooke a member February 17 1905 and of Dr. Alpheus S. Packard a correspondent February 14 1905 were announced.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication  A New Species of SeaMouse Aphrodita hastata from Eastern Massachusetts by J. Percy Moore.
A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Orthoptera of Cuba the Isle of Pinesnd the Bahamas by James A. G. Rehn.
A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Acridida
Orthoptera of Costa Rica by James A. G. Rehn.
Mr. Samuel S. Van Pelt was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed  NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The new species described herein are further evidences of the energy and industry with which Mr. Hirase is investigating the molluscan fauna of his country.
For the ilhistrations I am indebted to Mr. Vanatta.
A name used by me last year Terehra hedleyi proves to have been applied before to a different species. I propose therefore to change the name of the Japanese species to Terehra hedleyana.
The description may be found in these Proceedings for 1904 p. 3.
Conus voluminalis avus n. subsp.
PI.
II fig.
4.
General form of C. voluminalis Hinds but the later whorls are almost flat instead of concave above and are smooth except for weak oblique growthwrinkles.
The conic earlier whorls are weakly marked with about three spiral Hues and the angular periphery is very slightly nodulous and projects a little above the suture.
The last whorl is smooth except for about twelve grooves at the base.
Length 38 diam.
19 mm.
Kikai Osumi in a deposit probably of PHocene age.
Types No.
88.296 A. N. S. P. from No.
1578 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Conus aratispira usp.
PI.
II fig.
1.
Shell slender and long with high turreted spire biconic the cone of the spire about onethird the total length somewhat terraced the whorls angular in the middle smooth below the angle steeply sloping and marked with 4 or 5 spiral grooves above it the shoulder of the intermediate whorls very weakly tuberculate in wellpreserved specimens.
Last whorl obliquely striate toward the base the grooves and convex intervals of equal size below but upwards they become more widely spaced with wide flat intervals.
The aperture is narrow its length about threefourths that of the shell.
Length 42 diam.
13.5 mm.
Length about 48 diam.
16 mm.
Kikai Osumi in a deposit of probably Pliocene age.
Types No 88.297 A. N. S. P. from No.
1579 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This belongs to a small group of cones with the spire much elevated.
See Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
N. S. W. 1904 pp.
187 211.
Columbella pardalina suboribraria n. subsp.
PI.
IV fig.
23.
Shell obesely fusiform swollen in the middle dark brown closelyspotted with white without a darker or otherwise differentiated subsutural band.
There are some spiral strise at the base but the surface is otherwise smooth.
The aperture is narrow sinuous more than half the length of the shell the outer lip decidedly thickened within in the middle armed with about five tubercular or elongated teeth apex entire or nearly so.
Whorls 7 to 7.
Length 11.5 diam.
5.5 mm.
Hahajima Ogasawara.
Types No.
88924 A. N. S. P. from No.
1606 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form has a superficial resemblance to C. cribraria but the shape of the aperture shows it to be related to C. pardalina japonica Rve.
  C. sagena Rve..
C. p. suhcrihraria is only about half the size of its larger cousin its aperture is slightly less contracted and the spots are smaller but otherwise the two forms do not differ materially.
Buooinum unicum n. sp.
Shell solid but rather thin ovateconic fleshywhitish under a very thin smooth dehiscent light olive cuticle.
The last whorl has a strong keel at the shoulder above which the surface slopes up to the suture with a second obtuse keel a little nearer to the suture than to the first keel.
Below the shoulder keel the surface is at first slightly concave then evenly convex and rather swollen contracting as usual below.
The whorls of the spue are terracelike and the last 4 at least are carinated like the last whorl those above being deeply eroded.
Wliorls 6.
The base is sculptured with strong spiral cords gradually diminishing toward the periphery.
Over the whole there is a minute sculpture of fine spiral strise beautifully crenulated by minute growthstrise.
The aperture is white within outer lip simple and unexpanded.
The columellar margin is concave in the middle straight below.
The anterior notch is moderately wide and deep.
The inner lip is covered with a white enamel preceded by an eroded groove.
Length 58.5 diam.
32 length of aperture 31 mm.
Kisennuma Rikuzen.
Type No.
88820 A. N. S. P. from No.
1761 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This peculiar whelk has much resemblance in general figure to Buccinum taphrium Dall type of the section Sulcosinus.
It is more elongated than that and differs further in the less spreading columellar callous the much less sinuous columella the additional keel above the shoulder and in not having a channelled suture though the upper keel in a more depressed shell would define a channel.
It seems to connect Sulcosinus with the more normal forms of Buccinum.
Buccinum cMshimanum Pilsbry.
PI.
III.
fig.
20.
Nautilus XVIII p. 87 December 1904.
Etoro Chishima Kuril Is..
Siphonalia vanattai n. sp.
PI.
Ill fig.
13.
The shell is obcselyfiisiform the greatest width about median solid and strong white irregularly marked with dull purplishbrown spots of irregular shape and with narrow reddishbrown spiral lines most distinct behind the lip six and equidistant or fewer by the omission of some of them.
Wliorls 6 the protoconch being lost in the specimens seen longitudinally costate 13 to 15 rounded ribs on the last whorl where they are most prominent at the shoulder rapidly diminishing below it and not extending upon the base sculptured throughout with spiral rounded cords with threads occasionally interposed.
The last two whorls are subangular at the shoulder the preceding whorls being very convex.
Last whorl is strongly contracted below.
The aperture is oblique its length including the anterior canal about twothirds that of the shell pale dull reddishbrown inside becoming ochrefleshy between the lirse pure white on the bevelled edge.
It is rather sharply sulcate within.
The outer lip is symmetrically arched.
Anterior canal deep and moderately recurved.
Length 28 diam.
15 mm.
 aperture to end of canal 19 mm.
Length 26 diam.
13.7 mm.
j aperture to end of canal 17 mm.
Yakushima Osumi.
Types No.
87746 A. N. S. P. from No.
1602 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This small species resembles S. hinnulus in general contour and coloration but it is much smaller decidedly plicate and Urate within the aperture.
It does not seem to agree with any of the numerous unfigured and insufficiently described forms introduced by A. Adams.
S. spadicea is more slender than S. vanattai.
Twentyseven species of Siphonalia are now recorded from Japan.
Of these S.
hyperodon Pils.
is a synonym of S. mikado Melvill. S. stearnsii Pils.
is closely related to S. pseudobuccinum Melv. but seems to differ by its shorter anterior canal.
S. semiplicata Pils.
is a synonym of S. fusoides Rve. while S. longirostris Dkr.
seems to be merely a variety of the same species.
Eleven species have been described without figures by A. Adams.
Omitting these there remain about fourteen recognizable Japanese Siphonalise.
Maculotriton bracteatus longus Pils.
and Van.
PI.
Ill fig.
13.
Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.
for 1904 p. 595.
Tanabe Kii.
Length 11.5 diam.
4.7 mm. '
Journ.
of Conchologi V p. 34S.
Usilla gouldii Smith.
PI.
Ill fig.
14 Planaxis cingulata Gld. Otia Conch. p. 140 not of A. Adams.
Planaxis gouldii E. A. Smith Ann.
and Mag.
N. H. 1872 IX p. 42.
Shell ovateoblong thick and solid.
On the last whorl there is a subsutural welt followed by a depression then seven slightly convex girdles separated by narrower spaces each occupied by a single low cord at and above the periphery but on the base the spaces are wider with two or three cortls  on the spire a microscopic dense subvertical striation may be seen in unworn specimens.
The girdles arc very low almost flat on the latter part of the last whorl but more and more raised earlier two strong ones appearing on the penultimate whorl where they are somewhat nodose.
On the earlier whorls these two girdles and the subsutural welt are set with transversely oblong tubercles along weak vertical folds.
Siphonal fasciole short and convex.
Whorls about 6 J the tip minutely eroded the first whorl smooth.
Last whorl tapering and a little concave below the slightly swollen peripheral region.
Aperture oblique about threefifths the total length of the shell blackish within with a single peripheral pale line.
Anterior channel short and deep posterior sinus narrow and gutterlike defined by a curved ascending callous cord on the lip and a small callous pad on the body.
Outer lip regularly arcuate thickened within and armed with six teeth in adult shells.
Columellar margin dilated rather wide.
Color blackishbrown with blue spots on some of the spiral girdles the tubercles on the spire and a few bands in intervals on the last whorl being yellowish.
Behind the lip all of the intervals between the raised girdles become yellowish terminating in subtriangular yellow spots on the bevelled lip seven in number.
Length 13.2 diam.
7 mm.
Length 11.7 diam.
6 mm.
Hahajima Ogasawara.
The specimens described are No.
87754 A. N. S. P. from No.
1628 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Gould's types were from Oshima Osumi.
This peculiar little whelk has been unfortunate in its biographers.
Dr. Gould placed it in a wrong genus and family and used a preoccupied specific name and Mr. Smith who renamed it had not seen a specimen and left it in the genus Planaxis.
Pease in a note on Usilla fusconigra alludes to Gould's species as a member of Usilla. The species has not been figured hitherto.
The group Usilla has been considered a subgenus of Vexilla and located in the Purpnrince.
The rather flat columella and yellowish ' Amer.
Jortrn.
of Conrh. IV 115. bands of the shell and the microscopic vertical lineolation discernible in places on U. gouldii are in favor of this classification while the form of the shell and the other characters of the aperture remind one more of Pisania or Tritonidea in the Buccinidce.
Until the dentition can be examined the position of Usilla must be left in doubt.
U. gouldii is a larger and rougher species than U. f usee nigra with the spire much more strongly sculptured.
No other species are known to belong to the group.
Columbella liocyma Pils.
Described in these Proceedings 1894 p. 14.
The locality Hachijo Izu was omitted.
Planaxis abbreviata ogasawarana n. subsp.
PI.
Ill figs.
18 19.
The shell is larger and longer than P. abbreviata Pease ovateconic thick and solid chocolatebrown the last whorl covered with a dull fibrous cuticle.
Sculpture of spiral grooves often weak in the middle of the last whorl strong below the suture and at the base.
Whorls about 6 convex.
Aperture obhque the outer lip thickened within and bearing 11 to 14 lirse which extend into the throat basal and posterior notches small deep and rounded.
Length 13 diam.
7.7 mm.
Length 12 diam.
7 mm.
Hahajima Ogasawara.
Types No.
87769 A. N. S. P. from No.
1629 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is a more robust form than P. nigra with lirse in the throat like the Polynesian P. abbreviata.
Natioa Haloconcha hirasei n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
5 6.
Shell wholly imperforate similar in shape to N. clausa B. and S. Browntinged white with two chocolatebrown bands which are more or less interrupted into spots or oblique streaks one in the middle of the upper surface and ascending upon the penultimate whorl the other immediately below the periphery.
The surface is rather dull marked with growthlines and showing faint fine subobsolete spiral striae.
Whorls 4 convex the spire very small.
The aperture is oblique halfround and chestnut colored inside with a pale entering basal band and wide white lipmargin.
The umbilical pad is small semicircular bounded by a furrow and separated from the parietal callous by a rather large notch.
Length 17 diam.
15 mm. operculum 10 x 6.7 mm.
Length 15.5 diam.
14.5 mm.
The operculum fig.
5 is ovate slightly concave and white externally with a short low curved rib over the spiral part and a veryfaint impressed line parallel to the outer margin.
The edge is rather thick.
Akkeshi Kushiro Hokkaido.
Types No.
87768 A. N. S. P. from No.
1618 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species differs from N. clausa by the colorbelts of the shell the notch between the umbilical pad and the parietal callous and the faint line parallel with the outer margin of the operculum.
It differs from A.
janthostoma Desh.
and N. adamsiana Dkr.
by the closure of the imibilicus and in wanting strong grooves on the operculum.
Torinia densegranosa n. sp.
PI.
Ill figs.
15 16 17.
The shell is rather openly umbilicate depressedconic dull light reddishbrown with some indistinct darker and yellowish spots along the periphery.
The spire is lowconic apex obtuse whorls 5 but slightly convex the last rounded peripherally.
The sculpture consists of unequal flattened spiral cords and threads cut by very fine close and regidar radial grooves.
The cords are rather wide and flat except near the periphery where two or three of them are convex and slightly prominent.
Four spiral cords are visible on the upper surface with a thread between the third and fourth.
On the periphery there are two with a thread between them.
On the base there are five  the outer one smaller with a thread on each side of it the umbilical cord coarsely crenate the next outer one with only about half as many radial incisions as the following cords.
There is a fine not very distinct spiral striation over the coarser sculpture described.
The aperture is notched at the termination of the umbilical cord.
The operculum is a conic stack of thin yellow lamell2e.
Alt.
5 diam 8.5 mm.
Fukura Awaji.
Types No.
88306 A. N. S. P. from No.
1568 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Chiefly notable for the close radial sculpture.
The sculpture of the base omitted in fig.
16 is shown enlarged in fig.
17.
Cingula kurilensis n. sp.
PI.
IV fig.
31.
Shell minutely perforate ovateconic dark brown with more or less extensive eroded ashen patches sometimes the whole surface eroded.
Marked with fine inconspicuous growthlines where unworn.
Whorls 5 convex the last ventricose.
Aperture roundlyovate slightly subangular.
Peristome thin and simple continued in an adherentcallous across the parietal wall.
Columella arcuate.
Length 3.3 diam.
2 longest axis of aperture 1.7 mm.
Kunashiri Chishima KurU Is..
Types No.
88303 A. N. S. P. from No.
1599 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This little Amnicolalike snail is smaller than Cingula robusta 'Dall' Krause and has no spiral sculpture.
It is a wider shell than Onoha aleutica Dall which seems to be its nearest relative.
EULIMID.
In my Catalogue of the Marine Mollushs of Japan p. 77 some 23 species of Eulima are recorded exclusive of Leiostraca etc.
Of this number E. cumingi Sowb.
may have been an erroneous identification but as the specimen upon which it was based is not now accessible to me I am unable to revise it.
The original E. cumingi A.
Ad.
 was described from ''Lord Hood's Island South Pacific but as in numerous other cases the island intended by the label may have been one of the Galapagos group for the species does not seem to differ materially from Eulima splendidula Sowb. described from St. Elena west coast of Colombia.
The name Eulima stenostoma A.
Ad.
is preoccupied for a species described by Jeffreys and may therefore be ignored.
There remain 18 species described by Ai'thur Adams in his absurdly inadequate manner without dimensions or mention of the varices.
While nobody would presume to identify specimens by these diagnoses it is frequently possible to ascertain that no one of them corresponds wholly with a particular specimen in hand.
To facilitate such use of the descriptions I have recast the whole of them in the accompanying table.
The most prominent characters of any specimen may now be compared with the entire series by glancing down the appropriate colimm without the waste of time and diversion of attention ensuing from reading over the whole descriptions.
 Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1851 p. 277.
 Conchol.
Illustrations fig.
7.
108 Feb.  1 s .
. .    V oJ CJJ aT3 a 'o 7 U .
ai m Si 2 .o 3  3 3 a 1 G a C H  M c3 S a 03 OJ  c  1 a. o El 0
t  S 1 .  2 ' cr o oT  1 1 a   Ci.
u  a  4 133  ' 3 .
a. Q  .
ec  o  pC   CQ 5  S  s     J oT 1 o IS 3  C 3  O  73 3 1 3 tt3 j3 i 3 3 33 bCS u u ti ' .
oi t 5 i tH O  bO c3 cS Qj a 3 3 OJ c a  OJ 3 0 3 J0 C3 a O O c 5 C
c3 C  3 S 03 o a Oh lH 1 1 c lH J  a a o3 1 2 1 1 .0    o 
51 IS g  w6 O aOa ojn bCT3   .
t .u o  0.'
fi QJ 73  3 350 2 o3 bC O C3 T3 o3 3 O c J o P 12 Ot3 m S3 It til C3 1 1 3 O t s 0  org  Z  CQ oTS o 0 3 i 03 bC e b05  S o3 bCJ2 3  cr C 3 3 3  u CO CXO S bo iS 03 fl c3 i hJ S 5 w  1  T3 s C3 a a 03 1 5b 'bb 32  as 013 Q.
 3 o.s S S 3 3 3 t 03  o   00 oo 'i 3  a 5 06 3 'a 1 a.
i a C3 3 u O c3  is  a 3  0 2 3.   0.33 g OJ 3 oa Oh e3 to Snra  .
 u  3 M aj 2  s 1 J 1 H M CLi J1 ' CM  4  0 e3 3 3 c3 3 3 3 m 3 a CC  1 d g o .1 1 i fci tq ' i KJ Ki 6q 1905.
109 rj  V QJ 3 cr QJ 3 o a 73 D 1  bca QJ .
.
i 1 c  S e d t 53 5S .  oj  ' 3  ' C QJ 1 1 3 3 3 3 . to . to .c . 'S CO S 3 M J3 32 J cc S s g     0 a 6 atc QjO  o3  3 3 3 QjiS i 03 3 3 u  3 fc 35 Qj' 73 s 5 cc u ill 3 bO 3 u 73 s Q QJ .S3   t. QJ y 4J.3 rj C fl c o cS 2 3 c3 3 tc QJ 3 03 3  03 3  03 C HI hJ 3 3 3 3 1 1 hi M H KH tH 1 1 vate acuminate posteo a is O CI c  0.2 3 3 TJ ii u ChC3 IS  3 c3 C C i 3 03 qT 03  q5  i 03   1 . '  3     O O 02 c 1 o 73 QJ p u 05 gee Sj . QJ  S3 QJ i 3S bDQJ 3 CU 5 bC 3 QJ c 3 yA ii H ti 13   tf 'O.i  QJ to wr 03 03 a  hJ 6 QJ S S '5 03 o Q Out 12 planate.
i OJ 3 3 fe 1 3 3 c8 .
03 03 03 E  o3 03 as  03 ij     1 1  CO CD 00 02 tH 1H h OJ I tC q3 to 3 X 5.
X QJ OQJ X QJ Cl 3 o s ce'T3 03 to 3 3 C  O sOJ    q S 0 
1 X QJ 3 3 X QJ O j 3 a 1 03 01 Si 'S 5 5 UrS  tn U a.S 0 s  0 h t CO S  t. Q 3 ta E W m hl ZD iZ 02 OJ 'rt 1  1 1  i 1 .
 ' c i QJ 73 03 .2  ' 3 g   s g sl  3 3 3 a 3 3 3 3 S 23 X P rj cc m 02 02 O  02 B c' 1 e e i s e 1 r2 1 '55.
i.
t CO V c e s fci  fc tq fc fej e4 fci 110 Feb.  K  1    z  i      I oj aJ T3 aJ S s 1 o .
ca 3 'Q II .3  cr O rt a 3 S 5 S 1 c3 03 I  S s  2 iTS .s  CO tL Q 3 si Q  ID p H dJ ..
M  cc ' cc o   cc 3 ' 02    s  o '' rj .
 2  a r c  3 33  3 o 3 tn CC 0 0 ss  i 3 C i iJ  '' tH W P p3 M c 3   2 ' 33 3 M u c fl rt 1114 a   3 '2 fl o o 3 jo  T
.
rt 0 d ii r 3 3 c3 3  c 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 h1 I 1 hH S.S1 1 Ct3 i Srtd ii  a o S c3 a.
J flJ a5 J t 'T' tj '  t gs  O o o o S s 'O 0 s  o 3  
'O t g d 3 43 2 330' g 03 b3 3 3 1  Ud 3 flw bOT3 c J f5 o o O S3   CO 03 1 ci J H  a 3 T3 3 T3 S  'B03 p  c3 C3  C i 1 3   'm O 03 c3 3 o    O  T  t 02 CA a J  ilfl c 3 C O  3 t o   X.3 2 C3 5 ij 4J i 
cr.H 3   2 s 03 .
'2 oj  cc c3.3 W bD  033 3 c3 ' oj CO C S O J2 S.25 1 fi 3 3 hO oj f   Ci CO hH  M CO  1 If 3 D 3 CO 3 a' 'T3 tJ J aj 1  S i d  c3 S3 o3 a 3 .
 3 3 3 1 4 032 u 3 r CO .
3 03 73 3 3 3 x X w cj 02 a 1 d TS i C3 1 
e s e  1  8  o s  .g  Ki i  fcq' Ki q'It will of course be understood in studying descriptions of Eulimidce that the terms spire inclined posteriorly apex recurved etc. are not in themselves significant except in species with the varices all on one side.
In forms with alternately right and left varices the spire will be inclined first toward one then toward the other side or the apex either forward or backward  and in species with irregular varices the curvature may be in any direction.
Moreover the count of whorls is not especially significant except in combination witn the length of the shell.
As in any shell having varices there is no certain criterion of adult growth except where a number of specimens are in hand.
Eulima bovioornu n. sp.
PL ll figs.
9 lo.
Shell moderately solid but not thick white and glossy the spire regularly tapering attenuate near the apex strongly hent to the right and backward.
Whorls about 13 slightly convex the sutures but lightly impressed.
Varices distinctly impressed one on each whorl all on the right side where they form a slowly receding ascending line each succeeding one being very slightly in advance of the preceding.
The aperture is ovate the outer lip obtuse arching well forward in the middle receding above.
Columella short concave slightly calloused but without a reflexed edge.
Length 15 diam.
4.7 mm.
Length 13 diam.
4.3 mm.
Hahajima Ogasawara.
Types No.
88309 A. N. S. P. from No.
1603 of Mr Hirase's collection.
This species is apparently a near relative of E. tortuosa Adams and Reeve from the China Sea but that species is from the figure a little more slender more attenuated near the apex and it has a longer vertical and straightened columella.
With a length of about 12 mm. E. tortuosa is said to have 12 to 14 whorls.
Another specimen was sent from Kikaigashima Osumi.
Eulima ogaaawarana n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
2 3.
Shell thick and solid white and polished the spire somewhat attenuated above and noticeably bent acute.
Whorls 12 or 13 nearly flat the suture impressed and distinct.
Varices very jew only 3 or 4 on the whole shell irregularly placed and deeply impressed.
Aperture small and ovate vertical the outer lip very thick but little arched forZool. '
Samarang ' p.
.
jS PI.
11 fig.
26.
The figure in the Conch.
Iconica does not look like the same species.
It has been copied by Tryon in the Manual of Conchology.
ward in the mickllo.
Columella heavily calloused with broadly reflexed appressed edge.
Length 11.3 diam.
3.5 mm.
Length 10.3 diam.
3.3 mm.
Hahajima Ogasawara.
Types No.
88311 A. N. S. P. from No.
1604 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is much thicker than E. valida with deeper variceal furrows and calloused columella.
It is also more bent.
Eulima luohuana Pils.
PI.
II.
figs.
7 8.
Proc.
A. N. S. P. 1901 p. 396.
Shell rather thin white and glossy regularly tapering almost straight though there is a quite perceptible curvature near the apex.
Whorls 10 or 11 slightly convex the suture but slightly marked.
Varices slightly impressed not very distinct mostly separated by the space of somewhat more than a whorl and therefore quite irregularly placed.
The aperture is acuminateovate the outer lip obtuse arched forward in the middle retracted above and below the columella slightly concave slightly calloused the edge not reflexed.
Length 11 diam.
3.7 mm.
The specimens originally described from Loochoo Okinawa Island had lost the apices.
The description above is from perfect shells from Kkaigashima.
The varices are all on the face and right side in the two type specimens as stated in the original description but this is merely accidental in the larger series now received there are sometimes a few on the left side though most of them are on the face right side or back usually scattered through an arc of a third of the circle but sometimes several are in a line on successive whorls.
This species corresponds fairly well with A. Adams' description of E. valida but that shell is said to be straight and no dimensions are given.
The curvature of E. luchuana while slight is readily appreciable.
Eulima artioulata Sowerby.
PI.
II fig.
il.
P. Z. S. 1S34 p. S Conch.
Illu.str. fig.
12 Conch Icon. XV PI.
1 fig.
1.
The shell is straight slender and regularly tapering solid but not thick glossy and nearly smooth but fine forwardlyoblique growthscratches are visible under a lens.
The varices are situated at intervals of threefourths of a whorl each marked by a white stripe followed by a brown one an impressed line between them.
Color pinkishbrown with a white band below the suture and another at the periphery both with articulated brown and white borders.
Whorls 14 the upper ones nearly flat the last two or three more convex.
The aperture is ovate the outer lip arched forward in the middle retracted above.
Columella arcuate moderately calloused.
Length 24.5 diam.
6.3 length of aperture with peristome 5.2 mm.
Length 23.3 diam.
6.5 length of aperture with peristome 5.7 mm.
Hahajima Ogasawara.
No.
88310 A. N. S. P. from No.
1605 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
So far as I know this species has been recorded hitherto only from Australia.
I have not been able to compare Australian specimens and various important details such as the number of whorls are not mentioned in the published descriptions.
No critical comparison with them of the specimens from the Bonin Islands can therefore be made at this time.
Phorcus borealis n. sp.
PI.
IV figs.
29 30.
Shell narrowly but deeply umbilicate depressed moderately solid whitish ashen the surface rather dull smooth except for faint growthstrife and on the base excessively fine close subobsolete spiral striae.
Spire low convexconic the periphery obtusely subangular the base flattened.
Whorls 4 convex the last very wide.
Aperture oblique roundedovate pearly with brilliant green reflections within the lip with a wide dull whitish margin.
Columella arcuate rather thin parietal callous thin.
Umbilicus bounded by an angle.
Operculum corneous multispiral the edges of the whorls slightly free.
Alt.
4 diam.
5.5 mm.
Kushiro Kushiro Hokkaido.
Types No.
87776 A. N. S. P. from No.
1583 of Mr. Hirasc's collection.
This little Gibbuloid snail is shaped like Norrissia norrisi of California.
It does not resemble any Japanese species known to me.
Monilea nucleolus Pils.
See these Proceedings for 1904 PI.
6 figs.
58 58a.
The locality Yakujima Osumi was omitted in the original description.
Ethalia guamensis Quoy.
This species was described from a single specimen procured at Guam by the naturalists of the Astrolabe.''
The figure represents the shell as having the umbilicus partly closed by a callous but neither figure nor description show whether this partial closure is effected by 1 a callous pillar partly filling the umbilicus or 2 by a mere reflection of the columellar margin vaulting over a free umbilical cavity.
A. Adams and subsequent authors have taken the first alternative and '' RoieUa guamensis Q. and G. Zool.
Astrolabe III p. 267 atlas PI.
61 fig.s.
32 Z S identified guamensis with a shell of which Trochus callosus Koch and Rotella montrouzieri Souv.
are varietal forms.
No form of this type which I have encountered agrees fully with Quoy's figures and description and it is not impossible that the real guamensis yet remains unidentified in which case Ethalia vwntrouzieri will become the senior name for the guamensis of most authors.
Ethalia guamensis sanguinea n. subsp.
Fl.
IV figs.
21 22.
Trochuft callosufi Koch in Philippi Abhld..
I PL 4 fig.
2.
Philippi in Conch.
Cabinet Trochus PL 35 fip.
7 copied in Man.
Conch. XI PL 57 figs.
41 42.
Not T. callosus GmeL Shell imperforate lowconoidal above convex beneath glossy and smooth except for fine growthlines and almost obsolete spirals.
White copiously marbled with purplebrown and pinkisli above with some opaque white spots and a few indistinct articulated spiral lines the base white with a pink central area.
Whorls 5h convex the last wide narrowly rounded at the periphery.
Aperture oblique ovate the lip thin and simple calloused near the columellar insertion the umbilicus wholly filled by a red callous pad roughened by several irregular veinlike grooves.
Alt.
10 diam.
15 mm.
Yakujima Osumi.
Types No.
88312 A. N. S. P. from No.
1458 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form differs from E. g. selenomphala by having the umbilicus wholly filled both in half grown and adult shells by the roseate callous pad as in Helicina or Umbonium.
The general shape is not unlike except that the spire is more regularly lowconic in E. g. sanguinea.
Moreover the upper surface is more coarsely maculate and the base is white except near the central pad.
Probably ''Trochus callosus Koch of Fischer Iconogr.
Coq.
Viv. PI.
115 fig.
3 should stand as another subspecies of E. guamensis.
Rotella montrouzieri Souv.
will be still another subspecies.
Ithalia guamensis selenomphala n. subsp.
PI.
IV figs.
27 28.  Shell depressed biconvex glossy and smooth except for fine growthlines and almost obsolete spiral lines on the last Avhorl.
It is white the upper surface sparsely marbled with purplish and pink suffused with pink on the spire and encircled with numerous fine lines articulated white and pink or brown.
Base white with a few pink spots.
The upper surface is convex the inner w'horls only projecting in an acute little cone.
Whorls 6 convex parted by a wellimpressed suture the last whorl very wide narrowly rounded almost subangular peripherally.
The base is convex.
The aperture is very oblique ovate the lip thin and simple.
The umbilicus is nearly filled by a callous mass ending in a flattened pink lobe reducing the umbilicus to a narrow semicircular cavity which is bounded by a rounded overhanging cord ending in a flattened callous at the lip.
Alt.
11 diam.
17 mm.
Hirado Hizen.
Type No.
88313 A. N. S. P. from No.
1526 of Mr. Hirasc's collection.
Distinguished by its narrowly crescentic umbilical cavity in which a very large spiral pillar stands terminating in the callous pad and nearly filling the umbilicus.
In sanguinea the callous is red and completely fills the umbilicus in both halfgrown and adult shells  or at least this is the case with the type lot.
The whole shell is more depressed than the specimens of E. g. montrouzieri before me in which moreover the callous is white.
Fischer's figure of E. callosa Trochns callosus differs by its semicircular callous nearly surrounding a subcircular umbilicus.
Ethalia striolata A.
Ad.
and E. trilohata Sowb.
have much the structure of selenomphala but differ in the shape of the callous.
ETHALIELLA n. gen.
Depressed openly umbilicated smoothish Trochidce with the peristome obtuse the columellar margin dilated partly vaulting over the umbilicus which is radially sulcate within and has a very low wide and rounded marginal cord.
Type E. floccata.
Distribution IndoPacific.
This group is to comprise species related to Monilea Ethalia and Isanda but with features of the columellar lip and umbilicus unlike either.
Minolta and its boreal ally Solariella differ by the almost or quite unexpanded columellar margin.
The group will include besides the type Ethalia rhodomphala Smith Isanda pulchella A.
Ad. and Trochus rhodomphalus Souv.
Ethaliella floooata Sowb.
PI.
IV figs.
24 25 26.
Ann.
Mag.
Xat.
Hist. XII 1903 p. .500.
Shell much depressed biconvex obtusely carinate peripherally openly umbilicate.
Fleshtinted with a band below the suture composed of fine obliquely radial dark red lines alternating with white ones.
This is followed in the middle of the upper surface by a spiral series of oblique oblong red blotches alternating with opaque white ones.
Below these there is a minutely whitespeckled belt and then at the periphery a series of red spots.
On the base the umbilicus is fleshywhitish  outside of this there is a red area closely mottled with opaque white and between this tract and the periphery there is a pale zone sometimes marked with distant radial series of two red dots each.
The surface is smooth except at and above the periphery where there are several spiral striip.
Wliorls 5J slightly convex parted by an impressed suture.
Umbilicus circular and deep expanding fuimellike at the opening where the sloping sides are excavated in the middle and fineh sulcate radially.
Aperture oblique subcircvilar the peristome obtuse the columellar margin broadly dilated covering a small part of the umbihcus.
Alt.
5 diam.
9 mm.
Alt.
4 diam.
7.7 mm.
Yakushima Osumi.
Topotypes No.
88.314 A. N. S. P. from No.
1428 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is evidently related to Ethalia rhodomphala E. A. Smith' and Isanda pulchella A. Ad. From the latter it differs by the much wider last whorl as viewed from above and by the less extensively covered umbilicus and white callous.
It differs from E. rhodomphala Smith chiefly by the color of the columellar callous.
This is not a feature of much importance and I would rank the Yakushima form under rhodomphala as a variety were it not that the name of that species is preoccupied for a new Caledonian form apparently referable to the same genus E. rhodomphala Souv.
Dentalium rhabdotum n. sp.
Pi.
V figs.
45 46 47.
Shell curved posteriorly the larger half nearly straight slender the diameter contained about 11 times in the length moderately solid lusterless white with more or less blackish incrustation.
Sculpture of 12 acute even ribs at the small end parted by wider concave intervals these ribs gradually become lower and wider but usually retain their predominance over subsequently acquired sculpture to the end though becoming low and obtuse.
Secondary threads soon appear in the intervals and on the last third of the shell tertiary threads with some additional minor threads in some intervals or riding on the slopes of the larger threads.
In fullgrown individuals all longitudinal sculpture becomes subobsolete close to the aperture.
Growthlines fine and obliquely circular throughout.
The aperture is circular with rather thin peristome.
Apical orifice ovate the inner  The Fauna and Geography of the Maldive and Laccadive Archipelagoes II Pt.
2 Marine MoUusca p. 618 PI.
36 figs.
1 2 1903.
 E. von Martens List of tlie Shells of Mergui and Its Archipelago in Journal of the Linnean Society XXI p. 107 PI.
16 fig.
3a3e 1887.
Trochus Motiilea rhodomphahis Souxerhie Journal de Conchyliologie 1S7 5 p. 36 PI.
4 fig.
3.
Tliis species seems as Fischer has suggested close to Trochus rotellaformis Pliilippi Cnnchijiien Cabinet Trochus p. 302 PI.
44 fig.
2. layer usually projecting slightly the margin shallowly notched at the narrow end of the orifice the notch slightly excentric on the convex side of the shell fig.
46.
  Length 41 diam.
at aperture 3.6 at apex 1 mm.
Length 29 diam.
at aperture 3.1. at apex 1.2 mm.
immature shell.
Heda Izu with D. coruscuyn.
Type No.
88319 A. N. S. P. This is probably nearer D. weinkauffi than to any other Japanese species now known.
It apparently belongs to the group comprising D. entails occidentale etc. and referred to the subgenus Antalis but it is also about equally as much related to D. agassizi a form from the Panamic region in 322 to 1020 fms.
Dentalium Laevidentalium coruscum n. sp PI.
V figs.
42 43.
Shell well curved thinwalled at the oral end somewhat thickened at the apex circular in section throughout the greatest diameter contained 11 times in the length.
White.
The surface is polished very faintly marked with growthlines on the larger half.
The apical orifice is shortly ovate the narrow end toward the convex side of the shell where there is a slight wave of the margin.
Length 33 diam.
at apex 1 at aperture 3 mm.
Heda Izu at entrance to port in 167 fms.
Type No.
88320 A. N. S. P. This form is related to D. leptosceles Watson and luhricatum Sowb.
from Australia.
My key to the species of Loevidentalium brings it to the latter species except in the matter of size luhricatum being about double the dimensions of coruscum.
This discrepancy together with the widely separated habitats of the two forms indicates specific diversity.
The curvature measured from a chord connecting the ends to the greatest convexity of the outer curve is 4 mm. about oneeighth the length of the shell.
Dentalium Rhabdus cerinum n. sp.
PI.
V figs.
40 i.
The shell is thin almost straight circular in section at the anal end barely perceptibly compressed from side to side at the oral end  slender the greatest diameter contained about 17 times in the length translucent whitish.
The surface is glossy sculptured with very fine rather close and regular circular impressed lines and some coarser more widely spaced impressions indicating periods of growtharrest.
Both apertures are simple without slit or notch.
Length 33 diam.
at apex .9 at aperture 1.9 mm.
Shimidzu Suruga off the spit.
Type No.
88305 A. N. S. P. This species is allied to D. rectius Cpr.
and cequatorium Pils.
and Shp. but differs from both in its distinct though extremely minute annular sculpture.
It is a typical Rhabdus and the first to be found in Japanese waters.
Siliqua intuspurpurea nsp.
PI.
V figs.
82 33.
Shell regularly oblong compressed entirely covered with a glossy cuticle greenyellow with darker olive concentric streaks becoming purple toward the beaks which however are white or whitish.
The surface is lightly marked with growthlines and has a group of indistinct rays composed of short minute wrinkles in the direction of growthlines in the middle and the dorsal surface posterior to the beaks is densely sculptured with minute raised radial lines.
Upper and lower margins about equally convex  posterior end slightly truncate obliquely anterior end rounded.
Beaks at the anterior threetenths of the length.
Ligament short blackbrown and prominent.
Interior purple the rib strong straight and nearly vertical whitishpurple.
Pallial sinus extending anteriorly twofifths the total length its lower margin coalescent with the pallial line.
Two cardinal teeth in each valve.
Length 41 alt.
21 diam.
9 mm.
Akkeshi Kushiro Hokkaido.
Types No.
88295 A. N. S. P. from No.
1617 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Related to the Calif ornian S. lucida Conr. but that is a narrower species.
The internal rib shows as an indistinct whitish ray outside.
Maorocallista ohishimaua n. sp.
The shell is oval rather solid white under a glossy cuticle.
Drab with lighter concentric streaks becoming pale yellow near the base and ends and rather indistinctly marked with drab rays.
Surface everywhere closely but irregularly concentrically plicatestriate.
Under a strong lens a dense microscopic sculpture of papillae and lines parallel to growthlines is seen to cover the riblcts and intervals.
The dorsal and basal margins are about equally convex the dorsal margin anterior to the beaks is nearly straight the anterior end being rather narrowly rounded.
The lunule is rather narrow flat bounded by a slightly impressed line.
The interior is pure white dull the pallial sinus rather short and rounded.
Teeth are rather slender.
Iargins of the valves are smooth and partly covered by the inflexed cuticle.
Length 64.5 alt.
48 diam.
28.5 mm.
Shikotan Chishima Kuril Is..
Type No.
88301 A. N. S. P. from No.
1615 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This delicately colored clam is remarkably handsome for so northern a species.
It has some resemblance to Macrocallista pacifica Dillw.
 a species better known as Meretrix or Callista chinensis Chemn. but that species is smaller more oblong and smoother and it is more or less marked with purple.
A somewhat larger specimen of M. chishimana measuring length 78 alt.
57 diam.
32.5 mm. was contained in a collection of shells of unknown locality but all species of Yesso and northward which has been in the Academy many years.
Dr. William H. Dall has shown that the wellknown and appropriate name Callista cannot be used for this Venerid group but I believe no one has noticed that it was originally based upon the single species Madra neapolitana Poli Test.
utr.
Sicil I pp.
67 and xi 1791.
In a later volume Poli added several species of Veneridce but subsequent additions do not affect a name based upon a single species.
Callista Poli i therefore a synonym of Madra s. str.
Lithophaga lithura n. sp.
PL V figs.
37 S8 39.
The shell is thin cylindrical brown and sculptured with growthlines only under a smooth thin graywhite calcareous layer which almost completely envelopes it.
The low beaks are very near the anterior end.
The hingemargin is but little raised hardly modifying the cylindric contour but the height of the shell diminishes slightly toward both ends.
The anterior end is narrowly rounded the posterior end abruptly and squarely truncate.
The calcareous layer thickened at the posterior end where it projects is abruptly narrowed and is excavated on the inner faces and continued in narrow posterior projections.
The valves arc fleshtinted within becoming blackishpurple at the posterior end .
Length 37 alt.
12 diam.
9.5 mm.
Length 32.5 alt.
10 diam.
8.5 mm.
Kikaigashima Osumi.
Types No.
88294 A. N. S. P. from No.
1577 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is remarkable for the posterior truncation of the valves and their mucronate internally excavated stony tails.
Trapezium japonicum usp.
PI.
V figs.
34 35 36.
The shell is rather solid oblong the altitude nearly half the length the beaks at the anterior sixth or seventh of the length.
Surface dull and earthy whitish with some red or livid stains and roughened by growthwrinkles which are most strongly marked posteriorly.
Only small remnants of a thin cuticle remain near the ventral margin.
Dorsal margin convex basal margin straight or a little concave as in Margaritana margaritifera.
Beaks low.
No kmule.
Escutcheon flat or slightly concave lanceolate very long extending to the posterior end of the dorsal margin bounded by acute elevated ridges.
Interior white often stained with violet in the cavity or with some faint rays of the same color or in some specimens it is delicately fleshtinted ochraceous toward the lower margin posteriorly.
There is always a broad dark dorsal and posterior tract dull violet in the cavity but glossy blackishpurple between the posterior adductor scar and the posterior margin.
There are three cardinal teeth parallel to the long axis of the shell in the right valve the anterior one much the larger the posterior tooth separated from the others long and slender lamellar.
In the left valve there are also three the anterior one very small.
There Ls a short strong lateral tooth in the right valve a socket above it receiving a small process of the other valve.
Length 44 alt.
21 diam.
15 mm.
Length 36 alt.
17 diam.
12.7 mm.
Tsuda Awa Shikoku Is..
Types No.
88293 A. N. S. P. from No.
1622 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This does not seem closely related to any Trapezium I have found described.
There is a Cypricardia formosensis Dsh.
enumerated in Paetel's Catalog III Abth. 94 1890 without reference which I have been unable to trace.
The name Trapezium is prior to the equivalent terms Cypricardia Lam.
and Libitina Schum.
Trapezium japonicum delioatum n. subsp.
PI.
v fig.
44.
Similar in contour to T. japonicum but thinner and smaller.
The shell is partially covered with a very delicate corneous cuticle deciduous toward the beaks dull ashen in large part stained with violet.
Posterior half sculptiued with delicate subobsolete radial striae scarcely visible toward the margins except by being set with delicate very minute and short cuticular spines.
Interior dark livid purplish throughout but darker at the posterior end.
Lateral teeth very small.
Length 26.2 alt.
12.3 diam.
8 mm.
Length 24.3 alt.
12 diam.
8 mm.
Yokohama.
Types No.
69420 A. N. S. P. Besides the differences given above the escutcheon in this species is usually very asymmetrical being much narrower in the left valve where its limiting keel is nearly straight while in T. japonicum it is nearly symmetrical.
Pecten awajiensis n. sp.
Shell solid equilateral both valves moderately convex the right valve less so  lower half semicircular the upper half straightly tapering.
Convex valve dull purplishwhite with purplebrown clouding and a few small white spots in the furrows.
The other valve is light brown with some darker zones and more white in the grooves.
Ears large the posterior slightly longer.
Ribs 17 high and rounded and slightly wider than the intervals in the left valve decidedly so in the right where their margins slightly overhang the intervals.
Growthstriae fine close and inconspicuous.
Ears finely costellate.
Anterior and posterior dorsal surfaces of the main disk flattened and smoothish.
Interior white and strongly grooved calloused above the muscle scar.
Ctenolium short of five teeth.
Length 48.6 height 47 diam.
14.5 mm.
 length of the hingeline 33 mm.
Fukura Awaji.
Type No.
88300 A. N. S. P. from No.
1636 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is related to P. singapormus Sowb.
Thes.
Conch. 1 PI 14 fig.
71 from which it differs chiefly by the much coarser and less numerous ribs.
17 instead of 23 or 24.
The dorsal half of the shell is also more wedgeshaped than in the Singapore scallop of which a topotype is before me.
Reference to Plates II III IV and V. Plate II Fig.
1.
 Conus aratispira n. sp.
Figs.
2 3.
 Eulima ogasawarana n. sp.
Fig.
4.
 Conus voluviinalis aims n. subsp.
Fig.
5.
 Xatica hirasei n.
sp. exterior of operculum.
Fig.
6.
 Natica hirasei n.
sp. shell.
Figs.
7 S.  Eulima luchuana Pils.
Ivikaigashima Osumi.
Figs.
9 10.
 Eulima bovicornu n. sp.
Fig.
11.
 Eulima articuJata Sowb.
Hahajima Ogasawara.
Plate III Fig.
12.
 Siphonalia vanattai n. sp.
Fig.
13.
 Maculotriton hracteatus longns Pils.
and Van.
Fig.
14.
 Usilla gouldii Smith.
Hahajima Ogasawara.
Figs.
15 16 17.
Torinia densegranosa n. sp.
Figs.
IS 19.
 Planaxis ahhreviata ogasawarana n. subsp.
Fig.
20.
 Buccininn chishimanum Pils.
Plate IV Figs.
21 22. Eihalia guamensis sanguinea n. subsp.
Fig.
23.
 ColumbeUa pardalina subcribraria n. subsp.
Figs.
24 25 26.
 Ethaliella floccata Sowb.
Topotype.
Fig.
27 28.
 Ethalia guamensis selenomphala n. subsp.
Figs.
29 30.
 Phorcus borealis n. sp.
Fig.
31.
 Cingula kurilensis n. sp.
Plate V Figs.
32 33.
 Siliqua intuspurpurea n. sp.
Figs.
34.
35 36.
 Trapezium japonicum n. sp.
Figs 37.
3S 39.
 Lithophaga lithura n. sp.
Fig.
40 41.
 Dentalium cerinum n. sp.
Lateral views.
Fig.
42.
 Dentalium coruscum n. sp.
Ventral aspect of apical end.
Fig.
43.
 Dentalium coruscum n. sp.
Lateral view.
Fig.
44.
 Trapezium japonicum delicatum n. subsp.
Fig.
45.
 Dentalium rhabdotum n. sp.
Lateral view natural size.
Fig.
46. Dentalium rhabdotum.
Ventral view of apical end.
Fig.
47.
 Dentalium rhabdotum.
Lateral view of oral end.
