THE SPHAGNUM FROG OF NEW JERSEYRANA VIRGATIPES Cope.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
On April 23 1905 Mr. Thomas D. Keim and the writer while investigating the fauna of the Great Egg Harbor river obtained a number of specimens of the interesting frog Rana virgatipes Cope and were fortunate enough to learn something of its habits.
The species seems to have been obtained on but two other occasions since it was first found by Cope in October of 1891. Mr. Witmer Stone secured one on Shoal Branch of Wading river near Speedwell N. J. June 20 1901 and on May 31 1905 Mr. Paul Lorrilliere obtained one on a branch of the Batsto river near White Horse N. J.
All the above specimens as well as Cope's types are now in the collection of the Academy making a series of thirtytwo examples.
Our specimens were obtained at the mouth of Mare Run the type locality and we noticed no other batrachia in the vicinity.
The frogs seemed to occur exclusively in the almost submerged masses of sphagnum which line the shores in many places and often extend well out in the stream.
Here the water is still and the animals rest more or less below so that their dull colors harmonize well with the surroundings.
They were shy and sank cpiickly out of sight among the aquatic vegetation on the approach of danger.
In attempting to escape they would not jump or leap and when caught in the dipnet moved about in a rather slow stupefied manner.
They swam for short distances but were usually able to find suitable shelter close at hand.
The individuals obtained by Cope and Stone did not make any noise but when we discovered ours the males were in full cry which would seem to indicate that late April was the height of the nuptial season.
The males are provided with distensible vocal vesicles and when about to utter their call these sacs are inflated like little bladders till nearly spherical and then by degrees the air is allowed to escape.
This gives the sac the appearance of collapsing by a series of jerks.
As it is done quickly each jerk at an interval of a second the result is a sort of rapping sound.
These raps or jerks are about five or six in number.
The sound produced is peculiar in that it is difficult at times to detect  Amer.
Naturalist XXV 1891 p. 1017. its source and if the frog is close is quite startling.
This is clue not only to the suddenness but also to the volume of sound.
On one occasion an example which I captured had his vocal vesicles well inflated and though they partly collapsed as I held him in my hand he did not utter any sound.
The call bears considerable resemblance to the noise produced by woodchoppers cutting trees a short distance back in the forest and is different from the cry of any other batrachian so that when first heard I suspected it was produced by this species.
In life the general color of the body is muddybrown above.
The lower surface is whitish with a very diluted tint of dull yellowish in some examples.
This was especially noticeable on the lower surface of the head and the forefeet.
Side of head lrownish .
A pale brownish line from behind each eye back toward hind leg distinct at first but fading out gradually behind.
Edge of upper jaw of same color though with bronzed reflections in some examples.
This color is then continued back as a line from below tympanum to groin.
Along the flank it is a little paler and sometimes a little broader than the streak above.
It serves to separate similar tinted or blackishbrown blotches of the lower surface from the color of the back.
Back variegated with obscure blackish blotches nearly as large as pupil and the same on the upper surface of the legs.
Lower surface of legs with blackishbrown variegations which also extend on the belly and flanks below though they vary greatly.
Feet dusky membranes of hind toes with blackish blotches.
Tympanum and iris beautiful lronzed brown a narrow ring of bronze encircling pupil.
Considerable variation as to color is observed in the large series of examples before me.
This is striking in the color markings of the lower surface and is to be found in both sexes.
Some examples have the dusting of the throat more intense or dark some nearly white and in others it is variegated with diffuse blotches of blackishbrown like those on breast.
The same is true of the markings of the other lower regions though they do not have the dusted appearance.
In the case of two large females the markings on the under surface of the hind legs are very pale.
Though there is a great variation in the extent of the dark coloring of the lower surface the general character of the markings is always retained.
No two individuals are alike and the hind legs sometimes differ from one another.
Two of Cope's examples are a little smaller than any of mine though both are more or less mottled or blotched on the belly.
As this seems to be the case with all of my smaller or mediumsized examples I suspect it to be a character associated with youth.
The style of the coloration of the upper parts is less variable.
In some living examples I noticed here and there one a trifle pale or with paler streaks or the upper jaw more bronzed.
The lower lateral streak from below the tympanum appears to var also as it is either ochraceous dull reddish brownish olivaceous or whitish.
Some variation may also be noticed in the skin.
Some have the dermal papillae rather more scattered than others.
These are usually the smaller individuals as the larger ones have a somewhat warty appearance.
Explanation of Plate XL.
Left figure female.
Middle figures dorsal and ventral iews of males with distended vocal vesicles.
Right figure more usual type of coloration of male with vocal vesicles collapsed
