SOME COLDBLOODED VERTEBRATES OF THE FLORIDA KEYS.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
During June of 1904 the wi'iter accompanied by Mr. Stewardson Brown of the Botanical Section of the Academy was enabled through the generosity of Mr. Clarence B. Moore to visit the Florida Keys.
The chief object of the expedition was to explore the islands for land snails of the genus Liguus.
Incidentally we were enabled to study the flora and fauna of this most interesting region.
We availed ourselves of every opportunity to gather information lut only data which I feel to be absolutely reliable is here included.
The vernacular names of the different species so far as I could judge are those of the fishermen and residents.
Our operations extended from between a point directly south of Cape Sable or from Grassy Key west to the Marquesas covering an area about fifty miles in length.
We did not visit the Tortugas which are the most western of the Keys and more isolated than the Marquesas.
Making Key West our headquarters we set out after exploring that island for the IMarquesas stopping at Boca Grande Key on our way.
The Marquesas bank comprises a number of islands disposed in a more or less circular or atolllike manner with great shallows all about though mostly inside.
Few places we visited repaid us as well as these islands.
On our return we skirted the southern shores of the Keys toward Key West stopping at Ballast Key.
We then left Key West again and travelled along the southern shores of the Keys eastward to Grassy Key stopping at Boca Chica Sugar Loaf Big Pine No Name Cud joe's.
Knight Vaca and Grassy Keys.
On our return which was along the northern shores of these islands we stopped at Vaca Bahia Honda Hailer's Rock Little Pine Big Pine Summerland Cudjoe's Sugar Loaf West Cudjoe's Riding Snipe and Jewfish Kejs Most of the Keys are more or less covered with mangroves others such as Big and Little Pine have large tracts of pine forest with an undergrowth of scattered palmettos.
The latter grow several feet in height and in combination with the pines present a beautiful contrast after the monotony of mangroves.
All of the islands are low rising but a few feet above the sealevel and most all are furnished with rather broad white sandy beaches.
Some places along these beaches are studded with mangroves affording excellent shelter when overhanging for many fishes.
Along a number of the Keys were flat embankments covered with long grass and in other places coconut groves as that on Boca Chica Key.
jNIany Keys were covered with more fertile areas in which various tropical plants shrubs and trees were found in abundance often studded here and there with cacti and sometimes presenting an impenetrable barrier.
Throughout the Keys we visited the water is comparatively shallow.
In some places reefs are formed where the most beautiful of tropical marine animal life abounds in luxuriance.
Most of these places we were informed are constantly though gradually shifting so that new charts are needed from time to time to show the changes in depth and topography.
Some of the shallows are left entirely dry by the tides and others are covered with large beds of seawrack.
In such places many wadingbirds find an abundant supply of food.
We found a few pools on certain of the larger Keys such as Big Pine Summerland and Little Pine.
They are of rather brackishwater though I did not taste of all.
Hailer's Rock is a small flat or low island of sandheaped rocks with a growth here and there of a few low bushes.
The southern end is of bare dry rocks running well out to sea and leaving numerous tidepools.
These pools vary in size and depth from some of a few inches in extent to others of several feet.
Here such gaudj and tropical fishes as the Cock Eye Pilot Sheep's Head Rock Fish and Schoolmaster were found.
The Rock Fish or Gobies and Blennies are colored much like their surroundings and trust in great part to this for concealment.
Some are pale and others are dark.
They dart swiftly from place to place when disturbed much after the manner of our own Darters or else hide in crevices.
Though they were active I secured a number by hand with a little trouble.
While off Key West we saw cetaceans evidently a species of Delphinus.
The Opossum and Raccoon were reported from Key West.
and the latter also from Sugar Loaf Big and Little Pine Keys.
I saw a Rabbit on Big Pine Key and a Deer on Sugar Loaf.
Deer were found former'
on Little Pine Key but were now believed to be absent.
Though I did not see the Wood Rat on Summerland Key I was informed that they sometimes climb the trees to feed on fruits such as the sapadilla.
FISHES.
GINGLYMOSTOMID.
1.
Ginglymostoma cirratum Gmelin.
Shark.
Very abundant in all warm shallows about the Marquesas.
At this season June they come in these places to copulate and I was informed that they do not occur here or at least were rarely seen at other times for this purpose.
I saw a male and female in coitus.
On one occasion about four males were seen swimming close about a female whose whitish belly could be seen quite a distance as she was back down.
She was also evidently awaiting their initiative.
I approached in a small boat till almost directly above when it was possible to prod them with an oar as they swam slowly about and but little agitated.
A pair will remain fastened together some little time and then suddenly part without much commotion.
Their location may easily be determined in these places by a portion of the dorsal fin and frequently also a part of the caudal projecting above the surface.
The term cooting employed by some fishermen for the act of copulation among these sharks may possibly have been derived from the word courting.
Examples vary somewhat in color some appearing pale cinnamon though they are always distinguishable quite a distance even when entirely under water.
All I observed were large nearly twelve or fourteen feet in length and were not at all shy.
Occasionally in shallow water especially like that along the southern shores of Ballast Key they were sometimes more or less exposed or with both caudal fins well out of the water when copulating.
ALOPIIDiE.
2.
Alopias vulpes Gmelin.
Fish Shark.
Reported to be rather numerous at times in and about the Keys.
They were said to feed almost entirely on fish.
GALEID.
Galeus Klein in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen. Pise III 1792 p. 580.
Type Squalus galeus Linna'us  Galeorhinus Blainville 181617.
3.
Cynais canis Mite hill.
A small Shark was seen in the shallow water about Sugar Loaf Key.
4.
Galeocerdo tigrinus Miiller and Henle.
Reported as sometimes taken during smnmer.
5.
Carcharliinus lamia Rafinesque.
Large examples of some species of Carcharhinus most likely this species were reported under the name ''Man Eater.
I did not see any examples or hear any reports of Scoliodon terroenovoe Richardson unless it was confounded with the present form.
OESTRACIONTID.
Cestracion Klein in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen. Pise III 1792 p. 580.
Type Sqimhis zygoejia Linnaeus  Sphyrna Rafinesque 1810.
6.
Cestracion tiburo Linnaus.
Bonnet Head Shark.
Reported as rather abundant.
7.
Cestracion zygaena Linnseus.
Hammer Head.
Hammer Head Shark.
The large examples which occur about Bahia Honda Key are said to attain at least fifteen or more feet in length.
C. tiburo is said to be small.
Both species were reported as more abundant in summer.
RHINID.
Rhina IQein in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen. Pise III 1792 p. 580.
Type Squalus squatina Linnaeus  Squatina Dumeril 1806.
8.
Rhina squatina Linnwus.
Occasionally taken in smnmer.
PRISTID.
9.
Pristis pectinatus Latham.
Saw Fish.
Reaches a considerable size.
Young rather common in the shallows.
NARCACIONTID.
Narcadon Klein in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen. Pise III 1792 p. 580.
Type Raja torpedo Linnaeus  Narcobatus Blainville 1816.
10.
Tetronarce occidentalis Storer.
Electric Fish.
Found occasionally associated with species of Dasybatus.
DASYBATID.
Dasybatus Klein in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen. Pise III 1792 p. 581.
Type Raja pastinaca Linnaeus  Dasyatis Rafinesque.
11.
Dasybatus hastatus DeKay.
Stmg Ray.
Color in life pale hairbrown above margin of disk paler or more or less narrowly whitish and submarginally a slightly darker shade than general color of body.
Tail blackishbrown spine dark.
Lower surface of body white.
Iris brown.
This species was seen several times about the shallows of the Marquesas.
When swimming they appear to ghde over the sand from which they are distinguished with difficulty when quiet.
They usually swim rapidly away upon the approach of a small boat though we captured a single example with the harpoon.
They were found in pairs and seldom attained more than a couple of feet in width of disk.
PS ALLISOSTOMID .
Psallisostomus Klein in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen. Pise III 1792 p. 581.
Type Esox osseus Linnaeus.
12.
Psallisostomus osseus Linnaeus.
Common Gar.
Reported from about the Keys south of Cape Sable but not seen by me.
ELOPID.
13.
Tarpon atlanticus Valenciennes.
Tarpon.
This fish is reported to be used for food by the negroes at times.
It is the custom of anglers to throw their bodies on the beach or shore as it is said they attract the sharks if allowed to stay in the water thus interfering with the fishing.
The young were said to be not quite so common though it is possible that they may have been overlooked.
14.
Elops saurus Linnaeus.
Ten Pounder.
Said to be aljundant at times.
ALBULIDiE.
15.
Albula vulpes Linnaeus'.
Bone Fish.
Mostly abundant.
DUSSUMIERIID.
16.
Jenkinsia stolifera Jordan and Gilbert.
Fig.
1.
Head Sf depth 5 D. iii 8 A. i 14 P. ii 11 V. i 6 scales 30
according to pockets in a lateral series to base of caudal and about 4 more on latter about 8
series of scales transversely between origin of dorsal obliquely back behind origin of ventral width of head about 2 in its length and depth of head a trifle less length of depressed dorsal 1 base of anal 2 length of caudal damaged 1 pectoral If ventral 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 3f  mandible 2 snout 3 orbit 3 interorbital space 4 maxillary 2.
Body long compressed profiles similar and not trenchant.
Greatest depth at origin of dorsal.
Caudal peduncle compressed and its length about equal to its depth.
82 March Head large deep compressed upper profile curved a little from tip of upper jaw and then straight after middle of orbit and lower profile forming a broad angle below front of orbit.
Snout short and rounded.
Eye large rounded almost impinging on upper profile and anterior.
Adipose eyelid covering greater part of orbit.
Mouth terminal and a little superior small and mandible projecting a little in front.
Maxillary well inclined distally broadly expanded till about equal to f of pupil and its posterior edge not quite reaching opposite same.
Teeth in jaws minute and if present on roof of mouth and tongue very small or indistinct.
Tongue small a little elongate and with free rounded tip.
Each ramus of mandible well elevated inside mouth.
Interorbital space rather narrow and flat.
Nostrils close together and about midway in length of snout.
Preorbital rather ''i if'i4i  '4 Fig.
1.
Jenkinsia stolifera Jordan and Gilbert.
narrow and together with infraorbital preopercle and opercle furnished with rather large arborescent flutings those on latter with more or less adipose substance above.
Opercle with a gash in upper posterior margin.
Articular surface or mandible below its articulation with a broad obtuse spine or denticle.
Gillopening carried forward till about opposite front margin of orbit.
Rakers fine slender longer than filaments.
Filaments and pseudobranchise about equally well developed.
Isthmus trenchant in front and flattened rather broadly posteriorly.
Scales cycloid caducous or but few remaining on alcoholic examples and those mostly comprising dorsal and anal sheaths and on base of caudal.
A patch of adipose tissue on shoulder behind opercle above.
1906.
83 Origin of dorsal nearly midway between tip of snout and base of caudal and first developed ray longest.
Anal low inserted a little behind tip of depressed dorsal or a little nearer origin of ventral than base of caudal.
Caudal forked and lobes pointed.
Pectoral low inner rays of each fin approximating and reaching about half way to ventral.
Ventral inserted a little behind origin of dorsal or a little nearer base of caudal than tip of snout and reaching about f of distance to anal.
Vent close in front of origin of anal.
Color in alcohol faded pale brownish a little darker on back and lower surface paler.
Head more or less silvery top brownish.
Fins all pale or whitish dorsal and caudal a little grayish.
Median line of back with a dusky streak.
Along course of what would be lateral line posteriorly a brownish streak.
Iris silvery a little slaty above.
Length If inches.
Hailer's Rock.
Altogether 17 examples were taken associated with the large schools of Anchovies seen about the tide pools.
In life they are colored transparent or translucent greenish similar to the Anchovies One example contained a crustacean parasite within the gillopening the long spiral eggcases well protruding.
CLUPEID.
17.
Harengula sardina I'oey.
Fig.
2.
Harengula sardina Poey .
Two small examples taken at Hailer's Rock.
8.
Harengula humeralis Valenciennes.
Shiner.
Fig.
3.
Color in life bright or glistening silverywhite on sides and lower surface of body.
Back bluishgreen.
Snout brownish.
Eye silvery.
84 March upper margin brownish bhiegreen.
Dorsal and caudal graybrown other fins transparent whitish.
In the shallows of the Marquesas 30 examples were seined associated with the Anchovies and other small fishes.
In a tidepool on Fig.
3.
Harengnla humeralis Valenciennes Hailer's Rock 2 were also taken.
After being in alcohol some time most of the examples have the peritoneum showing plainly through the bodywall.
19.
Clupanodon oglina Linnaus. Thread Herring.
Occasional.
No examples taken.
BNGRAULIDID.
20.
Anchovia brownii Gmelin.
Sardine.
Color in life above clear transparent hyalinegreenish washed with 1 Drs.
Jordan and Gilbert in Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. V 1SS2 1883 p. 574 have restricted Lacepede's genus Clupanodon to jussieui.
Later Drs.
Jordan and Evermann in Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
47 1 1896 p. 422 apparently consider pilchardus as typical.
These precepts do not fall within the rule of elimination as the last name for which a generic name is proposed so far as I can find is thrissa.
For this Dr. Gill proposed Opisthonema.
At any rate Sardinia cannot be so considered as it is a synonym of Thrissa Rafinesque.
Lacepede's species thrissa may be considered restricted to the American Thread Herring as the Chinese fish included under Osbeck's reference is one of the Dorosomatidoe.
Opisthonema Gill is thus to be superseded by Clupanodon Lacepede The True Sardines formerly placed under the latter name will stand as species of Thrissa Rafinesque with Clupea pilchardus Linnseus as the type.
Messrs. Jordan and Seal have pertinent remarks in Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXVIII 1905 p. 771.
1906.
85 bright silvery and sides and lower regions of the brightest silvery.
Fins pale and more or less transparent.
Iris silvery.
Reaches a length of 3 inches.
Found throughout the Keys the above notes from examples from Hailer's Rock.
Very large schools were seen both in this locality and about the Marquesas.
They swim in large shoals associated with the other small fishes haunting the shallower as well as the deeper places along shore.
They were unusually numerous about the broken rocky shores where free ingress and egress could be had with the outer waters.
Here the schools were seen more or less quiescent and with their heads all directed one way so that upon any disturbance the whole mass would move more or less as if by one impulse.
They appear mostly transparent in the water.
I found them occasionally in the siuf  where they were probably more abundant than I was able to determine.
When taken from the water they soon die.
I never observed them in any tidepools which were cut off from the sea during low tide.
21.
Anchovia choerostoma cayorum subsp.
nov.
Fig.
4.
Head 3f  depth 5 D. in 9 A. iii 25 P. i 12 V. i 6 scales 36 squamation injured in a lateral series to base of caudal with several .txx.
Fig.
4.
Anchovia choerostoma cayorum Fowler.
more on latter  about 8 series of transverse scales from above origin of anal width of head 2 in its length depth of head H snout 5 eye 3 interorbital space 3f  maxillary 1 length of depressed dorsal If caudal 1 pectoral If ventral 2f  base of anal 3 in head and trunk.
Body strongly compressed elongate in form rather slender and lower profile a little more convex than upper edges not trenchant though rounded and greatest depth about origin of dorsal.
Caudal peduncle strongly compressed rather deep and least depth about f its length.
Head strongly compressed rather deep and profiles more or less similarly convex.
Snout rather blunt rounded convex and upper profile pronouncedly convex.
Eye circular rather large and well anterior.
Adipose tissue developed.
Mouth a little inclined and gape extending nearly f length of head.
Maxillary slender long and furnished with a single series of fine or minute teeth to its distal extremity which reaches almost to gillopening in front of origin of pectoral.
A similar series though very minute along margin of mandible.
Vomerine teeth a little larger than those on palatines which are very small and uniserial.
Also a still smaller series on each pterygoid.
Symphysis of mandible reaching about opposite posterior nostril.
Tongue small little free rounded reaching forward till a little in front of anterior orbital rim and with a free asperous patch above.
Nostrils close together superior and a little nearer front rim of orbit than tip of snout.
Interorbital space with a slightly elevated median ridge so that it is a little convex.
Opercle and top of head posteriorly with varied shallow flutings.
Cheek with shallow perforations and some above eye posteriorly.
Gillopening extending forward till opposite front rim of pupil.
Rakers about 14  20 slender long and longest much longer than filaments.
Pseud obranchise smaller than filaments.
Isthmus rather broadly rounded though compressed above.
Shouldergirdle notched once on each side below for reception of interopercle and above behind opercle an adiposelike tract.
Scales cycloid large and caducous.
Dorsal and anal with scaly basal sheaths.
Scales on base of caudal rather small.
Pointed axillary flap at base of pectoral f length of fin and inner rays of each fin approximated.
A similar ventral flap.
Origin of dorsal nearer base of caudal than tip of snout and first branched ray longest.
Anal inserted about opposite first fourth in length of depressed dorsal or much nearer origin of pectoral than base of caudal and its anterior rays elevated.
Caudal forked and lobes pointed.
Pectoral low and reaching origin of ventral.
Tip of depressed ventral reaching at least opposite origin of dorsal.
Vent close in front of anal.
Color in alcohol pale brownish paler or whitish below.
Back with edge of each scale sprinkled with a series of brownish dots.
A double series of brownish dots down middle of back.
Top of head snout and opercle brownish with darker brownish dots.
Upper posterior portion of head with gillopening showing through dark.
Head otherwise bright silvery.
Iris silvery.
A broad brownish band overlaid with silvery and nearly as wide as pupil extends from above gillopening to middle of base of caudal.
It is broader in middle than at either end.
A series of brownish spots along base of anal.
Dorsal and caudal pale grayish marked with numerous pale brownish dots other fins whitish.
Color in life with body more or less silvered and back above with a translucent appearance.
Length 2f inches.
Type No.
30613 A. N. S. P. Hailer's Rock Florida Keys.
June 1904.
H. W. Fowler.
Also Nos.
30614 to 30620 A. N. S. P. paratypes with same data.
Found only at the above locality in company with A. hrownii.
Only these few were secured among the multitudes of the latter.
From A. chcerostoma Goode with which this form may prove identical it appears at present to differ a little upon comparison with Porto Rican material in the more elongate form larger eye and head and more blunt or rounded snout.
Young examples have a smaller eye nearly 4 in head.
Cayo in Spanish meaning a ridge of small rocks or islands in the sea like those off southern Florida.
SYNODONTID.
22.
Synodus foetens Liniifeus.
Lizard Fish.
Color in life clear pale brownish above with about 10 wampumlike blotches of darker brown.
In some examples this produces a pepper and salt appearance.
A slightly dark double series of blackish dots across each blotch on back.
On side just below back a series of zigzag Wshaped markings also of same darker color.
Same color accents end of each blotch in form of a trifle darker speck.
A somewhat diamondlike blotch or ring between each median lateral marking and somewhat connected.
Another blotch alternately below each of these and still lower more paler tints of diffuse markings.
A deep brown blotch at base of tail and another of pale brown at base of each lobe.
Head brownish above and variegated with deeper spots and more or less olivaceousgolden on sides above.
Jaws and mandible variegated with olivaceousbrown.
Iris goldenolive in some lights pme golden pupil dark green.
Region of isthmus dull citron.
Tints of colors on sides all more or less golden.
Dorsal and caudal variegated with goldenbrown tints otherwise pale grayish.
Other fins dull whitish.
Length about 3 inches.
A number of small examples were taken in the sandy shallows of the Marquesas.
MURiBNID.
23.
Gymnothorax funebris Ranzani.
Moray Large examples were seen about the reefs off Snipe Key lurking in the crevices and holes of the coral rocks.
They were deep olive in color.
SILURID.
24.
Galeichthys felis Linnaus.
Cat Fish.
Salt Water Cat.
Very abundant and a very foul feeder eating any refuse or filth thrown overboard.
They were so ravenous that it was possible to catch them on any kind of bait even on a bent pin.
At times great quantities were said to have been taken in seines in which cases the fishermen would cut the leads and floats leaving the whole mass to extricate themselves as best they may.
Their spines are very much dreaded by the fishermen who claim they are able to produce dangerous and ugly wounds.
Most all the examples I observed were about Big Pine Key.
PCEJOILIID.
25.
Fundulus similis BairdandGirard.
SacLait.
Color in life with a whitish lateral band from opercle above to base of caudal interrupting slaty vertical bars which were 9 in number.
Lower surface of body white.
Dorsal anal and caudal grayish former with a welldefined pale base.
An olive shade on opercle.
Iris silvery a little brownish above and below and latter also with a little pale orange.
Jaws pale.
Length 3f inches.
Only four examples obtained in the shallow pools on Boca Chica Key.
The larger ones have as many as sixteen dark vertical bars.
Found associated with this species were all of the following PceciliidcB 26.
Cyprinodon variegatus riverendi Poey.
Three examples from the Marquesas and Boca Chica Key.
27.
Cyprinodon mydrus Goode and Bean.
Puss Gut.
Fig.
5 male.
Color in life nearly milkywhite upper surface or back above slightly brownish.
Lower surface or body milkywhite and fins very pale brownish.
After death some examples turned pale olive on back and top of head and on dorsal and caudal.
These fins back and side 1906.
89 speckled with goldenbrown or coppery in the males.
Lines of a similar shade on side of head one across chin one on preorbital another from corner of mouth to lower rim of eye and two others below and parallel up over opercle.
Iris goldenbrownish.
Side of body with indistinct traces of several pale slaty vertical streaks.
Lower fins very pale brownishgolden.
Ventral and anal with a more or less regular series of golden spots less distinct on latter.
Females Fig.
5.
Cijprinodon mydrus Goode and Bean.
were paler and had no spots on dorsal and caudal and those on body more yellowish.
In spirits young examples show large blotches of grayish on side and lack brilliant colors of the adults noted above.
They were more or less milkywhite in life.
This species is very abundant in pools and shallows of the Keys.
They were met with in great numbers all about the Marquesas and in the pools on Boca Chica Key.
Young were abundant in the tidepools on West Cud joe's Key.
Great numbers were also found about Big Pine Key.
Cyprinodon carpio Giinther  may be identical but the indefinite locality America admits a doubt.
The figure given by Drs.
Jordan 2 Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. VI 1866 p. 306.
90 March and Evermann  differs in that there are five rows of scales on the cheek.
28.
Mollienisia latipinna Le Sueur.
Mud Fish.
Color in life brown.
Side of head with gray and same color on costal region.
Iris brown.
Lower surface of body white.
Dorsal and caudal with grayishbrown spots and other markings of brown blackishbrown and dull ambercolor.
Some examples with caudal dull amber in middle basally and a lower series of longitudinal lines of dots of pale amber.
Ventral and anal white.
This species was found to be very abundant in the pools on Boca Chica Key associated with other small fishes.
Many are males with the dorsal fin enlarged and the edge of the caudal blackish.
MASTAOCEMBELID.
29.
Tylosurus notatus Poey.
Gar.
Fig.
6.
Color in life clear hyalinegreen overshot with silvery.
Greenish about edge of opercle.
Iris silvery.
A narrow greenish line from origin of pectoral above to base of caudal.
Vertical fins pale greenishbrown tinted slightly with ruddy.
Boca Grande Big Pine and Boca Chica Keys also Hailer's Rock and the Marquesas.
Tylosurus notatus Poey.
Found in small pools on some of the Keys.
They usually associate in small schools in the shallows or near the shore.
When in the water their bodies have a transparent appearance and in some lights are difficult to distinguish.
They are also fond of lurking about overhanging mangroves.
Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
47 IV 1900 PI.
112 fig.
27.
HEMIRAMPHID.
 30.
Cliriodorus atherinoides Goode and Bean.
Hard Head.
Color in life bright silvery.
A narrow bright silverywhite line from gillopening to base of caudal.
Upper surface of body and back pale translucent brownish each scale with a small patch of dark dots forming longitudinal series and about three above lateral line.
Down middle of back three narrow lines of same color median one pale or less distinct than others and all close together.
Dorsal and caudal pale grayishbrown and other fins translucent whitish.
Iris silverywhite.
Length 4 inches.
Alcoholic examples show lateral silvery band slaty.
Found associated with Atherina laticeps in the sandy shallows of the Marquesas and about Hailer's Rock.
31.
Hemiramphus brasiliensis Linnjeus.
Bala6.
Reported as frequently seen.
ATHERINID.
32.
Atherina laticeps Poey.
Silver Sides.
A'ery abundant.
Large schools were seen about the Marquesas Boca Chica and Snipe Keys.
MUGILID.
33.
Mugil curema Valenciennes.
Mullet.
Abundant in the shallows near the shore where they associate in large schools.
When disturbed they rush away causing a loud noise in the water.
Many were taken in castnets by fishermen as many as a dozen at one time.
They average several pounds each and I found their flesh excellent eating.
All examined appeared to be this species.
They were most abundant in the INIarquesas shallows.
34.
Mugil trichodon Poey.
Fig.
7.
Head 3  depth 3i D. IVI 8 A.
Ill 8 scales about 36 to base of caudal in a lateral series about 12 series of scales between origin of spinous dorsal and middle of belly 19 scales before spinous dorsal snout 3 in head eye 4 interorbital space 2 pectoral If ventral If.
Teeth large conspicuous uniserial ciliform and a little larger in upper jaw.
Pectoral not quite reaching opposite origin of spinous dorsal.
Color in life with back bluishslaty.
Side and lower surface silverywhite.
Base and axil of pectoral dark slaty.
Dorsal caudal and A number of Flying Fish Exoccetidoe were seen off Big Pine Key.
They were all small.
92 March  anal pale brownish.
Side of head with slight golden reflections.
 Iris brownish a silver margin close to pupil.
Length of largest example 2 inches and though only three were taken with other small fishes many others were seen.
They frequent the shallows like M. curema but so far as I could observe never associate.
Marquesas Keys.
Fig.
7.
Mugil trichodon Poey.
SPHYRNIDJE.
35.
Sphyraena barracuda Walbaum.
Barracuda.
Color in life more or less silvery.
Above pale brownish with about six pairs of deep olivaceous double saddles meeting as many pairs of rounded blotches on side of body just above or over lateral line.
A similar colored bar from end of snout to eye continued behind and across opercle.
Iris pale olivaceous slightly orange around pupil.
Dorsals and caudal slightly grayish or a trifle dusky marginally other fins pale whitish.
These were all young examples.
In the smallest which are a little over an inch long saddles of back are separated from lateral blotches by a pale or translucent brownish area.
Dorsal and caudal but little darker than other fins.
A brownisholive spot at base of caudal in all stages of young.
Many examples obtained at the Marquesas and Boca Chica Key largest about 3 inches.
An adult several feet long was harpooned off Channel Key and a number of large examples were noted off Bahia Honda Key.
SYNQNATHIDiE.s 36.
Syngnathus mackayi Swain and Meek.
Pipe Fish.
Fig.
8.
Color in alcohol brownish marked with small whitish clots or spots each ring with a pale or whitish blotch on each keel usually small and on side at intervals of four rings extending down in form of narrow bars.
Back grayish with pale brown vermiculations medianly.
On Fig.
8.
Syngnathus mackayi wain and Meek.
lower suface of tail small white spots producing a more or less confluent appearance.
Head brownish mottled grayish above and snout and under surface with more or less whitish spots.
Dorsal pale brownishwhite mottled with pale brown.
Caudal similar only blotched and darker.
Pectoral pale transparent brownishwhite.
Iris pale slatv.
Color in life resembling the following species.
Back whitish finely vermiculated or specked with lavender brownish and olivaceous.
Lower surface a Httle more green than sides which are marked with bluishgreen.
Snout slightly brownish.
Iris pearlcolored with brownish.
Length 6 inches.
JMarquesas and Big Pine Ke.
This species is subject to color variation some examples inclining more to green and others to brown than the one noted above.
37.
Syngnathus elucens Poey.
Pipe Fish.
Fig.
9.
Color in alcohol brownish each ring with a blotch of whitish posteriorly on each keel those on sides of about every fifth ring producing about a dozen vertical lateral bands.
Whitish blotches on lower surface of caudal becoming more or less confluent posteriorly.
Head brownish snout with a few white spots and under surface with a number of whitish blotches.
Dorsal caudal and pectoral whitish former fins with brownish specks.
Iris dull slaty.
Color in life with back whitish finely specked or dotted with lavender brownish and olive medianly.
Lower surface more clearly green than  I follow Profs.
Jordan and Snyder in retaining Syngnathus for the species formerlj' called Siphostoma.
Of the four species available by elimination viz. typhle acus pelagicus and ophidion the second acus remains and therefore must be regarded as the type.
It is congeneric with Siphostoma Rafinesque.
For typle Rafinesque also proposed Typle and for ophidion Nerophis.
The latter name must therefore ie used for the Ocean Pipe Fishes.
94 March sides and each ring marked by a whitish or Hght vertical line.
Some examples are darker others have more white or brown and still others are marked below with very pronounced white spots below with general color of body pale greenishbrown and tail paler.
Fins transparent dorsal and caudal marked with brownish.
Iris pearlcolored with brownish spots.
Length 4 inches.
Fig.
9.
Syngnathus elucens Poey.
A nimiber of examples from the Marquesas taken with many small fishes found in the seaweed and marine vegetation of the shallows.
One also from Big Pine Key.
38.
Syngnathus louisianae Giinther.
Hpe Fish.
Fig.
10.
Color in alcohol rather pale brown upper side of back dark lrown and middle of back much paler.
Several series of brown wavy longitudinal lines more or less irregular but parallel on middle of back and caudal above.
Along side just below each keel a short brown horizontal line on each ring.
In dark color of upper half of side several others appear on some rings.
On lower half of side brown lines are sometimes more or less convex and on caudal they assume various vermiculate patterns.
Lower or under surface of both head and body dull or pale brownishwhite without markings.
Head brownish pale above and on side of snout a dark brownish streak through eye and back across opercle above giving rise on side of body to horiFig.
10.
Syngnathus louisianae Giinther.
zontal dark line on each scute just below uppermost keel.
Dorsal caudal and pectoral pale brownishwhite caudal wath some darker or brownish markings.
Iris pale slaty except brownish streak and grayish below.
Color in life similar.
Back grayishwhite above or medianly with brown lines.
Upper side olivaceousbrown.
Lower surface pale whitish lines on lower side brownish and under sinface of abdomen pale greenish.
Dorsal whitish with very pale lines other fins more or less transparent.
Iris shellcolor with a brown horizontal crossbar.
Length lOf inches.
The Marquesas and Big Pine Key.
This is the largest and strongest species met with.
It was found associated with the others in the seaweed.
It varies in color when seen in life.
One example now in alcohol is dark blackishbrown on upper half of side.
A young example taken later at Hailer's Rock has about sixteen dark annulations.
39.
Hippocampus punctulatus Guichenot.
Sea Horse.
Color in life deep dull olivaceous tubercles or joints pale at bases and ruddy at tips.
Body everyivhere more or less variegated with narrow whitish vermiculating lines and those about eye radiating from pupil which is blackish.
Pectoral and dorsal pale grayish latter finely spotted at base with small dusky or olive specks.
Seaweed of the iIarquesas.
40.
Hippocampus zosterae Jordan and Gilbert.
Sea Horse.
One living example was pale brownishwhite side speckled with pale yellowish.
A submarginal dorsal line of blackish.
Iarginal portion of belly duskyolive.
Rings white.
Pupil blackish.
Another was a little more brownish.
Dorsal margined with pale orange and a submarginal black band.
Brown lines radiating from eye and on side of head slightly variegated with pale olive.
Another was a little more highly colored and more of a golden hue.
Rings at intervals more grayishwhite.
Coronet with a dusky filament.
One had a whitish snout.
General color more brownish.
Brownish lines edged with white radiate from eye.
Tubercles on trunk and caudal rings at intervals more whitish.
An example was similar to pale brownishwhite one but with minute specks.
A pale brownish line from eye to end of snout.
Wliitish caudal rings at intervals and like most of preceding with a more or less evident submarginal dusky line on dorsal fins otherwise plain and palecolored.
One with pronounced tubercles all more or less pure white interspaces on rings pale olive those on ventral surface darker and all more or less variegated with whitish dots.
Whitish lines radiate from eye.
Dorsal with a submarginal brownish band fins other'ise pale whitish.
Rings on caudal white and pronounced at intervals.
Brown band from eye to tip of snout crossed by several whitish fasciae.
Another less tuberculate more brownish and variegated with white and pale brown.
Darker examples were almost blackish without vermiculating lines.
Side somewhat brownish.
Snout whitish.
Dorsal and caudal plaincolored.
Other examples were more variable.
Many others were noted some olivaceous brownish coralwhite or almost entirely white and others pale lavender.
From the above notes it is easily seen that this species is subject to great color variation in life.
Some examples are much more brilliant than others.
There is also variation in the tubercles.
All my examples collected in the seaweed Zostera of the iMarquesas shallows.
SCOMBRID.
41.
Scomberomorus cavalla Cuvier.
King Fish.
Abundant.
TRIOHIURID.
42.
Trichiurus lepturus Liiin' Sometimes taken.
ISTIOPHORID.
43.
Istiophorus nigricans Lac6pSde.
Sail Fish.
Almost every season a large example is reported from these Keys.
OARANGID.
44.
Trachinotus falcatus Linnreus.
Pampano.
Color of young in life duskylavender.
A diffuse vertical patch of brownish dots on side from middle of dorsal to anal.
Dorsal and anal more or less sprinkled blackish former otherwise with whitish and latter with pale orange adjoining blackish of anal.
Margin of anal and entire caudal white.
Caudal peduncle white.
Spinous anal red spotted with black.
Breast rosy with brownish specks.
Top of head brown.
Jaws and lower surface of head whitish.
Cheek specked with brown.
Iris red with brownish margin.
One ly inches long from the Marquesas.
SERRANIDiE.
45.
Petrometopon cruentatus Lacopede.
Red Hind.
No examples were seen but it is reported from the Marquesas and other places.
46.
Epinephelus striatus Bloch.
Nassau Grouper.
Marquesas Islands.
Seen in the fishpots.
47Epinephelus maculosus Valenciennes.
Reported.
48.
Epinephelus drummondhayi Goode and Bean.
Speckled Hind.
Reported from about the Marquesas.
49.
Epinephelus morio Valenciennes.
Red Grouper.
Color in life olivaceousbrown branchiostegal region and cavities of jaws salmoncolor.
A brown streak opposite upper margin of maxillary in preorbital depression.
Inside of pharynx vermilion and inside of mouth fleshypink.
Fins except pectoral dusky or blackish especially submarginally.
Narrow margins of rayed vertical fins whitish.
Pectoral goldenbrown most noticeable marginally.
Base of ventral pale whitish.
Trunk marked with pale diffuse or indistinct scattered pale spots.
A few dots about size of pinhead on preorbital.
A salmonpink line on base of anal.
Iris golden or brassybrown.
Two examples from Bahia Honda Key.
About the Marquesas I saw a number of these fishes in fishpots and in liveboxes.
At Snipe Key they were frequently seen about the reefs.
50.
Promicrops gnttatus Linnajus.
Jew Fish.
One taken in a pool on Boca Chica Key and a large one off West Cud joe's Key.
They were reported as not at all uncommon about the other Keys.
Several were also seen in the reef near Snipe Key.
LUTIANIDiE.
51.
Lutianus griseus Linnitus.
Mangrove Snapper.
Marquesas and Boca Grande Key.
Found about the roots and usually under overhanging mangroves from which places they dart or swim quickly out to the open water when disturbed.
They associate with the other snappers and in some places are very abundant.
Some attain quite a large size.
52.
Lutianus apodus Walbaum.
Schoolmaster.
A very young example in alcohol which I take to be this species has the body dark brownish with about six pairs oif dark transverse bands the paler spaces between each much narrower alternately.
Vertical fins more or less pale or whitish spinous portions blackish basally.
Pectoral and ventral dusky.
A brownish streak from tip of snout to eye and then continued posteriorly along upper side of head to gillopening above.
Iris slaty.
Eye about three in head Preopercle with a short spine at lower posterior corner.
Length one inch.
Marquesas Islands.
7 Other examples were found at Big Pine Key.
53.
Lutianus aya Bloch.
Red Snapper.
Reported from the Marquesas but no examples taken.
54.
Lutianus synagris Linnaeus.
Marquesas Islands.
55.
Ocyurus chrysurus Bloch.
Yellow Tail Color in life purplishbrown above side rosypurplish becoming more purplish below.
Jaws rosy.
Iris brassywhite and a red bar behind pupil.
A giltgreen streak from tip of snout to caudal broadening behind and including upper half of caudal peduncle and finally including all of tail.
Edge of tail narrowly dull redorange.
A number of large giltgreen blotches above lateral streak.
Narrow pale longitudinal gilt lines lower ones very pale below lateral band.
Dorsal giltgreen.
Margin of soft dorsal and base of spinous fin dull diffuse plumbeous.
Anal pale milky medianly pale greenishyellow.
Pectoral dilute pinkish.
Ventral milky first ray dull greenishyellow Lower surface of body wiiite.
Inside of mouth and gillopening white.
Length 8 inches.
Hailer's Rock.
One of the most abundant foodfishes large numbers being in the markets of Key West during all of our visit.
It has been reported from all the Keys by fishermen.
IMost of our examples were taken in the deeper channels like some off Bahia Honda Key.
HMULIDJE.
56.
Haemulon sciurus Shaw.
Grunt.
Yellow Grunt.
Fig.
11 young.
Color in life skyblue above inclining or fading to plumbeous below.
Lines on snout and upper back in front more or less violaceous.
Inside of mouth bright scarlet.
Iris silvery.
Dorsal plumbeous graybrown rayed fin and caudal with slightly more plumbeous and latter becoming pale brownish marginally.
Margins of dorsal dull amber also same shade at base of spinous fin and about seven dull amber blotches basaUy on radii of second dorsal.
Pectoral brownishamber.
Ventral and anal goldenamber and streaks on side same.
Axil of pectoral pale.
The figure represents a young example from the Marquesas.
Jew Fish and Bahia Honda Keys and found very abundant throughout our trip.
67.
Haemulon plumieri LacSpMe.
Grunt.
Boar Grunt.
Color in life of young all olivaceous above more or less golden or gilded especially laterally.
Head with bright blue lines on trunk 1906.1 99 immediately becoming pkmibeous and fading.
Fins all more or less pale olivebrown margin of spinous dorsal somewhat pinkish.
Base of caudal with a blackish spot.
Inside of lower jaw pale orange.
Fig.
11.
Hcemulon sciurus Shaw.
itm  Iris silvery tinted with pale orange above.
Length 2f inches.
Another was similar except gilt bands were a little broader upper surface of body a little more olivaceous ventral and anal more golden and mandible white.
Very abundant about the Marquesas where many were seined.
58.
Bathystoma rimator Jordan and Swain.
Youiis Grunt.
Grassy Key Hailer's Rock and the Marquesas.
Very abundant in these localities also about the reefs near Snipe Key where large schools were seen swimming about in the quiet or still waters.
SPARIDiE 59.
Calamus penna Valenciennes.
Speckled Porgj.
Fig.
12 young.
Color in life brownish pale purple above on back and side and lower surface silvery.
About six goldenolive vertical bands with edges of 100 March each scale within more or less dusky.
Markings extending on fins which are very pale brownish.
Iris golden.
Length 3 inches.
The Marquesas and Boca Chica Key.
Fig.
12.
Calamus penna Valenciennes 60.
Lagodon rhomboides Linntus.
Bream.
Color in life pale bluisholive above below silvery white.
Gilt lines above parallel with lateral line and below horizontal.
Vertical lines dusky slatecolor and forming a black blotch at beginning of lateral line.
Dorsal spines gilded silvery slatecolor.
A median broad gilt band entire length of dorsal and anal.
Edge of spinous dorsal gilt.
Caudal brownish with golden tint.
Pectoral and ventral whitish latter with a gilt line in middle of its length.
Inside of gillopening silvery.
Iris silvery with golden and brown.
Length 3f inches.
Marquesas Grassy and Big Pine Keys and Hailer's Rock.
GERRIDiB.
Shad.
61 Eucinostomus gula Valenciennes.
Color in life bright silvery back tinted with very pale grayblue.
About four indistinct grayish vertical bands on side of back most distinct in young examples.
Dorsal and caudal grayish other fins paler and translucent.
Iris brownish with a brownish vertical bar.
The Marquesas Boca Chica West Cudjoe's and Grassy Keys and Hailer's Rock.
POMAOENTRID.
62.
Pomacentrus leucostictus Miiller and Troschel.
Cock Eye Pilot.
Color in life with upper half of body anteriorly brilliant violet this color changing insensibly into yellow and becoming intense orangeyellow posteriorly as on caudal and on caudal peduncle.
Spinous dorsal like back in front.
Rayed dorsal yellowish like back posteriorly.
A black blueedged ocellus at junction of dorsals basally.
Lower margin of anal olivaceousyellow rest of fin like abdomen.
Pectoral and ventral orange.
Three brilliant or light blue lines from eyes and snout to occiput.
Iris brown.
Two small examples a little less than an inch in length were taken in the tidepools off Hailer's Rock.
When in the water they are very conspicuous on account of their brilliant coloration.
They are not especially active swimmers though shy the smaller ones usually escaping capture on account of their size.
Found associated with Blennms cristatus Cyprinodon mydrus and Glyphisodon mauritii.
63.
Glyphisodon mauritii Bloch.
Sheepshead.
Color in life back shaded with lemonyellow.
Five distinct vertical bars of deep plumbeous edges of scales within each duskyplmnbeous.
Lower siuface of body chalkywhite.
Fins brownish and transverse bars extending on them.
Scales on base of anal specked with dusky otherwise plumbeouswhite.
Base of pectoral above blackish.
Each ray and spine of ventral pale dusky axillary scale white.
Head above plumbeous with a deep golden shade.
Side of head plumbeous.
Iris brown front rim yellow.
One example 4inches long from the Marquesas shallows.
A young example from Hailer's Rock was more greenishyellow above in life.
Below slatyplumbeous becoming more or less silvery on ventral region.
Vertical bars dusky.
Greenishyellow and dark bars on spinous dorsal other vertical fins palegrayish.
Pectoral and ventral whitish.
Iris brown.
Length 1 inches.
S0ARID.ZE3.
64.
Cryptotomus beryllinus Jordan and Swain.
Parrot Fish.
Color in life brown edges of some scales darker those on lower surface of a light chestnut tint.
Dorsal and anal slightly brownish with a ruddy tint and mottled with sHghtly darker spots.
Caudal brownish with slightly brownish crossbars.
Pectoral and ventral pale brownishwhite with slight crossmarkings of a chestnut tint on latter.
Eye silvery.
Marquesas.
Another from same locality had ventral and anal more rosyred.
Small ones were speckled with dusky and tinted orangepurple on anal below.
Spots on belly pale purple.
66.
Sparisoma flavescens Schneider.
Parrot Fish.
Marquesas Big Pine and Boca Chica Keys.
.
66.
Pseudoscarus guacamaia Cuvier.
Parrot Fish.
Green Parrot Fish.
I saw a large example of this species swimming about the reef near Snipe Key.
In the water it appeared to be entirely dark green.
CHTODONTID.
67.
Chaetodon capistratus LinnEeus.
Butterfly Fish.
One example seen in the reef about Snipe Key.
It was very evidently this species and measured about 5 inches in length as far as I could judge.
68.
Pomacaiitlius arcuatus Linnceus.
Black Angel.
Color in life blackish.
Bars bright lemonyellow.
Each scale on side with a black spot.
Iris deep blackishbrown marginally blackish.
Length 4 y g inches.
Only one example was taken about the roots of a red mangrove in the Marquesas shallows.
It was also reported by several fishermen as rather common about the roots of overhanging mangroves of several Keys.
69.
Angelichthys ciliaris Linnseus.
Yellow Angel.
Golden Angel.
Blue Angel.
Several of these beautiful fishes were seen about the reefs near Snipe Key.
They like the protection of large rocks and are exceedingly brilliant among their equally showy surroundings.
MONAOANTHID.
70.
Stephanolepis hispidus Linnseus.
File Fish.
Leather Fish.
Color in life green mottled with whitish and brown.
Iris pale yellowish.
Some examples with fine dusky dots and others with pubic flap edged with pale orange.
Subject to great color variation especially with respect to pattern.
Very abundant in the seawrack about the Marquesas.
Also taken about Hailer's Rock.
OSTRAOIONTIDiB.
71.
Lactophrys trigonus Linnteus.
Trunk Fish.
Shell Fish.
Color in life pale olive with blue spots or dots.
Blotch of blackish on side.
Fins pale yellowishbrown caudal more brownish.
Base of dorsal blackish.
Iris pale yellowish.
Length 6 inches.
Marquesas Islands.
72.
Acanthostracion tricornis Liimseus.
Horned Trunk Fish.
Color in life with belly pale sulphury.
Spots on body blackishbrown.
Fins pale brownish caudal with a few spots.
Chin whitish.
Iris yellowishwhite with brown spots.
Length 3 inches.
Marquesas Islands.
TETRODONTID.
73.
Spheroides nephelus Goode and Bean.
Puffer.
Swelling Fish.
Color in life with side of body citronyellow.
Back variegated with pale vermiculating blue lines of dots and marked with black spots.
Blue lines also forming ocelli of black lateral blotches.
Fins dilute brownish.
Iris dilute yellowish.
Length 2 inches.
Marquesas Islands.
74.
Spheroides plumieri Schneider.
Puffer.
Swelling Fish.
Color in life brownish above tinted with pale olive and marbled with blackishbrown.
Tentacles on back whitish.
A dark expanded triangular blotch between eyes.
Side of body olive blotches blackish.
Fins pale or dilute brownish.
Caudal whitish and basally and submarginally with a broad transverse blackishbrown bar.
Lower surface of body chalkywhite.
Iris pale orangeyellow.
Length Scinches.
Marquesas Islands and a number from Boca Chica Kej DIODONTID.
75.
Diodon hystrix Lmnseus.
Porcupine Fish.
This and sometimes the following are taken and dried as curios.
Nothing further than that both species occur was gathered from the fishermen.
76.
Diodon holocanthus Linnrtus.
Porcupine Fish.
77.
Lyosphaera gibbosa Evermann and Kendall.
Marble Fish.
Color in life pale olivaceous above.
Black below forming reticulating lines with bright orange spots.
Black lines reticulating above in olivaceous.
Jaws pale brownish.
Fins whitish.
Iris pale golden.
Length i inches.
This species was reported not at all uncommon in the shallows of the Marquesas about the Zostera though I only found one example.
It is a very curious and interesting little animal and I watched it inflate and collapse several times before death.
The inflation was slight much less than that of Spheroides.
This specimen agrees best with the larger figure given by Drs.
Evermann and Kendall though the dark reticulating lines are more distinct.
Those on top of the head are narrow or fine and others are broken a little.
Those all over abdomen are broader and darker.
SOORPNID..
78.
Scorpaena grandicomis Cuvier.
Sculpin.
Color in life brownish variegated with darker and whitish.
A broad brownish band from eye down over cheek.
Eye brownish.
Fins blackishbrown and whitish.
Body marked most everywiere with small whitish spots.
Length 2 inches.
Two examples were seined in the seawrack of the Marquesas shallows.
GOBIID.
79.
Mapo soporator Valenciennes.
Color in life mottled brownish above sides with darker brownish spots.
Back also with dusky and olivaceous markings.
Lower surface white.
Iargin of anal narrowly whitish.
Ventral white.
Other fins more or less grayish and transparent.
Iris brownish.
Length 2yV inches.
Hailer's Rock in a tidepool.
After being in alcohol there is an evident small bluish shoulderspot.
Another example was brownish in life with a dull bluish tint spots more dull or pale bluish.
Markings on back brownish.
Fins brownish spots pale bluish.
Outer portions of dorsal pale yellowish basally spotted with pale bluish and brownish between.
Caudal same.
Anal paler bluish than on dorsal becoming somewhat dilute brownishyellow distally with a submarginal brownish line and tip of each ray whitish.
Pupil greenish edged narrowly with golden.
One example 4 inches long from the seawrack of the Marquesas shallows.
PLEURONEOTID.
80.
Platophrys ocellatus Agassiz.
Flounder.
Color in life pale sandybrown mottled with white deep brown and gray white forming distinct spots.
Fins also spotted with same 'Bull.
U. S. Fish.
Comm. XVII 1897 1898 p. 131 PI.
9 figs.
11 and 12.
Rappahannock River near the mouth of Windmill Creek Virginia.
W. C. KendaU.
Type No.
48794 U. S. Nat.
Mus.
1906.
105 colors dark brownish spots at regular intervals and showing through on dextral side which is whitish.
Iris pinkish.
A single small example from the larquesas.
BLENNIID.
CLIXIN.E.
CONGKAMMUS gen. nov.
Type Congrammus moorei sp.
nov.
Body elongate and tapering from head.
Head deep large and broadened posteriorly.
Snout short.
Eyes small on top of head directed upwards close together and near tip of snout.
Mouth superior and much inclined.
Lips with a series of large cutaneous flaps or cirri.
Teeth in jaws in fine bands.
No teeth on vomer or palatines.
Interorbital space very narrow.
No gillrakers.
No small upturned hook on shouldergirdle.
Scales rather large and cycloid.
Lateral line continuous and arched till over pectoral.
Dorsal not divided radii similar or no apparent spines and about 40 in number.
Anal extending well forward on abdomen.
Caudal free and rounded.
Pectoral with tips of lower rays and those of other fins with exception of caudal free.
Color pale or brownishwhite.
Small Blennies found in tropical waters or in shallows with sandy bottoms and with something of the appearance of the Star Gazers or Uranoscopidce.
Kdyypoc or Toyypog Congnis the ancient name of the Conger Eel  'fiftocj sand.
81.
Congrammus moorei sp.
nov.
Sand Conger.
Fig.
13.
Head 3 depth of trunk at tip of pectoral 6 least depth of body 7 D. 41 A.
Ill 33 P. 14 V. I 3 scales 46 in lateral line to base of 1 Fig.
13.
Congrammus moorei Fowler.
caudal and 1 more on latter 5 scales obliquely between dorsal and lateral line at tip of pectoral and 4 scales obliquely back and down from same point to anal width of head ly in its length depth of head 1 mandible 2f.
caudal 2 pectoral If third ray of anal 3 snout about 8 in head from tip of upper jaw eye about 7 interorbital space about half of eye.
Body elongate swollen about branchial region in width but depth at this point less than farther back and rest of trunk or long tail tapering.
Upper profile convex especially above pectoral posteriorly.
Caudal peduncle compressed and its depth nearly a fifth of length of head.
Head large compressed anteriorly and swollen laterally posteriorly and its greatest depth greater than that of trunk.
Upper profile nearly straight and but Uttle inclined.
Lower profile well inclined.
Snout very short and a little broad.
Eyes superior directed upwards close together near tip of snout and longer than broad.
Mouth small superior and with jaws protruding.
Mandible produced beyond upper jaw Teeth in jaws only apparent when mouth is open fine and in bands.
Apparently no teeth on vomer or on tongue.
Each lip with a fringe of long cutaneous flaps of even length at regular intervals and conspicuous at all times.
Tongue thick rounded a little posterior in mouth and free in front.
Nostrils directly in front of eye separated and anterior with a small cutaneous rim or in a short tube.
Interorbital space very narrow and a little concave.
Opercle with radiate strise above each of which is produced beyond posterior margin as a slender cutaneous process over gillflap and beyond.
Gillopening large extending forward about midway in length of head.
Rakers absent.
Filaments small about equal to orbital diameter.
Isthmus compressed and surmounted with broadened surface which is concave medianly.
Scales only on trunk except several on base of caudal wliere they are large.
Scales cycloid large except on nuchal region anteriorly and in parallel series.
Lateral line of large simple tubes and continuous at first high or after fourteenth scale of its course midway in depth of body.
Dorsal of simple flexible rays none apparently evident as spines tips of each free anteriorly but becoming gradually more restricted by membranes posteriorly where it is free from caudal.
Origin of dorsal beginning a trifle before posterior margin of preopercle.
Anal with three rather pungent short spines anteriorly separated from rest of fin and nearly opposite origin of pectoral.
Rest of anal except first few elongated rays which are more or less erect with first two inclined forward and with welldeveloped membranes similar to dorsal.
Caudal rounded and small free from dorsal and anal.
Pectoral large broad tips of lower rays free and median rays longest.
Ventrals jugular each with three graduated rays with more or less free tips.
Color in alcohol pale brownish whitish below and a trifle darker on top of head.
Latter and back with many minute pale brown specks or dots.
Fins all transparent or brownishwhite.
Iris whitish pupil slaty.
Color in life white below brighter above more translucent and marked on back alternately with pale brown and white.
Fins transparent whitish dorsal and caudal hardly darker.
Iris pale greenishwhite becoming silvery marginally and pupil black.
Length 2 inches.
Type No.
30621 A. N. S. P. Hailer's Rock Florida Keys.
June 23 1904.
H. W. Fowler.
Only a single example the type was taken in very shallow water on the sandy shore of Hailer's Rock.
Named for Mr. Clarence B.
loore of Philadelphia well known for his valuable researches in Archaeology and through whose interest in Zoology the expedition to the Florida Keys was realized.
 BLEXNIIN.E.
82.
Blennius cristatus Linnaeus.
Kock Fish.
Color in life olivebrown above saddles darker than groundcolor.
Body speckled or minutely spotted with deeper brown and whitish markings becoming pale plumbeous below.
Lines of dorsal brown.
Edge of fins whitish.
Caudal tinted a little with pale green.
Abdomen dilute greenishwhite and translucent.
Fins all very pale transparent brownish and pale markings dusky or whitish.
Lower surface of head pale dusky.
Eye brown.
Crest on head dull deep red with dusky spots.
A larger example with dilute carmine tints to margins of dorsals and upper edge of caudal posterior margin of latter and tips of dorsal radii whitish.
A whitishplumbeous spot at base of each anal ray and also at tip of each submarginally dusky.
Spots and lines on body dilute plumbeous or pearlyblue.
Bars on caudal dusky.
Occipital filaments reddish.
Axil of pectoral dusky.
Brownish bars on lower half of pectoral.
Iris brown.
Small examples have brownish lines on dorsal more pale brownish.
Found very abundant in all the tidepools on Hailer's Rock and West Cud joe's Key.
In such places they are often found completely entrapped darting quickly about when disturbed however soon finding shelter in the crevices.
They are colored much in keeping with their surroundings so that it is difficult to make out their presence when quiet.
83.
Auohenopterus marmoratus Steindachner.
Rock Fish.
Color in life brown darker markings dark brown.
A pale spot on side of head tinted greenishwhite.
Pale markings on body whitish or pale brown.
Caudal whitish.
Blotches on dorsals and anals blackishbrown.
Iris reddish.
One small example from the seawrack in the Iarcuesas shallows.
BROTULID.
84.
Ogilbia oayorum Evermann and Kendall.
Color in life nearly uniform or pale isabellacolor finely dusted with minute darker specks or dots.
Eye slaty.
Four examples from West Cud joe's Key were taken in the tidepools.
They all show a distinct opercular spine and have very inconspicuous or imbedded scales not arranged transversely or otherwise in indistinct series the fish having the appearance of being naked when alive.
BATRACHID.
85Opsanus tau Linnteus.
Color in life brownish below whitish.
Dorsal and caudal pale brown markings darker.
Paler markings creamy.
Iris brownish.
One 3f inches from the Marquesas.
Another 1 inches long from West Cud joe's Key has no ventral suckingdisk.
Colorpattern suggesting that of certain Cottidae.
Blotches on body and vertical fins posteriorly very large and confluent so that contrast between light and pale markings is pronounced.
Belly and abdomen immaculate whitish.
OGCOCEPHALID.
86.
Ogcocephalus radiatus Mitchill.
Toad.
Plate III.
Color in life deep slatybrown without any distinct markings.
Dorsal caudal anal and pectorals same color above and basally below and marked with a beautiful network of whitish lines forming more or less distinct ocelli.
Sides of trunk similarly colored.
Lower distal portion of pectoral ventral anal and caudal tinged with golden.
Under surface of body otherwise pale or soiled whitish.
Iris brownish with pale radiating line.
Length 7inches.
Big Pine and Ballast Keys about the shallows.
They do not move fast and are easily captured in the hand or in a small dipnet.
They lurk about the rocks or seawrack and their protective colors make it difficult to distinguish them when quiet or not moving about.
AMPHIBIANS.
BUFONID.
87.
Bufo quericus Holbrook.
In Hfe plumbeousgray markings dusky slatecolor.
Lower surface of body translucent whitish.
Soles of feet and toes brownish.
Iris with yellowish next to pupil.
Abundant in the open grassland on Big Pine Key.
They progress by a series of short jumps.
HYLID.
88.
Hyla squirella Daudin.
In life plumbeous above speckled wdth dull brownish.
A blackishbrown line from tip of snout along side of head and including eye in its course.
Lower surface of body pale brownishwhite.
Legs pale translucent brown whitish below and posterior feet dusky.
Iris brown.
This species was found on the ground about shady hammockland on Boca Chica Key.
I also saw one on a Gumbo Limbo tree on Vaca Key.
89.
Hyla carolinensis Pennant.
A small green frog evidently this species was seen on Key West and Boca Chica Key.
REPTILES.
COLUBRID.
90.
Natrix fasciata Linntens.
Moccasin.
One example was taken in the mangroves of Boca Grande Key.
Here they live in the pools among the roots and short sprouts and are thus difficult to see on account of the seclusion afforded.
I did not meet with it in any other locality though it doubtless occms as it was reported from No Name Key.
The vernacular is ''Moccasin as distinguished from the Cotton Mouth Moccasin Agkistrodon contortrix.
91.
Bascanion constrictor Linnaus.
Black Snake.
Reported from No Name Key.
Seen on Knight and Summerland Keys.
92.
Lampropeltis doliatus Limiffius.
Red Snake.
An example reddish or copperyred in color was found on Boca Chica Key.
Others were reported from No Name Smnmerland and Cudjoe's Keys.
OROTALID.
93.
Crotalus adamanteus Beauvois.
Rattler.
Rattle Snake.
Diamond Rattle Snake.
Reported from Boca Chica Big Pine and No Name Keys.
I observed it on Summerland and Sugar Loaf Keys and on the latter one was secured.
SCINOID.
94.
Eumeces fasciatus Linnaeus.
Lion.
General color in life waxyblack.
Lines on head and neck deep brickorange becoming rather more orange on trunk and finally fading into deep ultramarineviolet tail though latter at first azure.
Line along side of head paler or more ochraceous.
Lower surface of head pale or translucent mandible somewhat dilute purplish and throat greenish.
A tinge of pale brickcolor on lower side of head.
Iris brownish.
Lower surface of trunk dusky with brassy reflections.
Feet and legs black.
This beautiful little lizard was first noticed in the hammockland on the east end of Boca Chica Key.
They were also rather plentiful on Vaca Key where a rather large one was secured.
TBID.
95.
Cnemidophorus sexlineatus Linnteus.
Lagarto.
Lion.
In life upper surface brownish and from above hind legs to tip of tail grayishbrown.
Lower smface entirely chalky or livid dilute lavenderblue inclining more to bluish laterally.
A median pale streak from occiput along upper smface of tail to become joined with its fellows.
They unite with a slightly ochraceous one on each side though becoming pale gray on tail and extending parallel from occiput.
A bright yellow line similar in shape and course from above posterior margin of eye and extending back along side of tail where it also becomes gray.
From lower eyelid below another of pale lemon to hip and fading out on femur.
Still another and paler fading out on ribs in front.
It is indistinctly defined.
Eyelid pale yellowish.
Iris brown.
Lower side of head pale bluish.
Top of head pale brown.
Inside of mouth fleshcolored.
Upper surfaces of fore legs grayishbrown.
In sutures of sciuamation on posterior costal region hind legs and front of tail brickcolored patches.
Lines fade out on tail which is almost entirely gray a short distance from its base.
A brownishgray line on posterior side of hind leg leaving a white one between it and color above.
It extends along lower side of tail where it is bluegreen and though continued a good distance back is not well defined.
Toes and soles of feet pale brownish fleshcolor.
Key West Boca Chica Big Pine Knight Vaca and Grassy Keys.
The above notes are from an example from the former locality.
They were abundant on most Keys where they were seen running swiftly through the grass.
They soon hide in holes or among rocks.
About the lagoon on Key West I found them most common under low grassy vegetation where numerous insects such as small grasshoppers were seen.
IGUANIDiE.
96.
Anolis principalis Linnaus.
Lion.
Key West Boca Chica Marquesas Big Pine No Name Vaca Grassy and Summerland Keys.
Many bright green examples were seen on Key West among grasses and other green vegetation from which they are distinguished with difficulty.
Those on the ground or on brown sticks etc. were brown in color.
I never saw the animal change to the negative of its surroundings.
Thej are quick though more easily captured than the other species.
CROCODILID.
97.
Alligator mississippiensis Daudin.
Alligator.
Reported from several pools we saw on Little Pine Key thougli I did not see any example during our stay.
They were also reportefl from pools on Summerland Key and were said to occasionally reach six feet in length.
DERMOOHELYDID .
98.
Dermoclielys coriaoea Vaiuklli.
Trunk Back.
Frequently taken about the Keys.
Several shells were seen about Key West.
CHELONIID.
99.
Thalassochelys caretta Linnaeus.
Logger Head Turtle.
Logger Head.
Reported as alundant in the past and still frequently taken.
It like both of the following species is much sought after and bids fair to become exterminated in a short time if the ruthless depredations of the turtlefisher are not speedily checked.
These animals all of which breed in suitable places in the Keys are thus subjected to additional danger as their eggs are also held in demand.
These are eagerly gathered when found and used as food.
100.
Eretmochelys imbricata Linnseus.
Hawk's Bill Turtle.
Shells of this animal were seen in Key West.
It was reported as of frequent occurrence in past times.
101.
Chelonia mydas Llnnseus.
Green Turtle.
Turtle.
Hunted for food and the most familiar of the family.
Several times newly laid eggs most likely of this species were found on the sandy beaches of the different Keys.
EMYDID.
102.
Malaclemmys littoralis rhizophorarum subsp.
nov. Terrapiu.
Diamond Back Terrapin.
Plate IV.
Head large heavy flattened somewhat above and below and a little swollen laterally behind each eye.
Eye large.
Snout short and rather obtuse.
Jaws each with a broad horny covering.
Iouth large and its profile together with mandible convex.
Legs and feet strong furnished with stout claws five on each anterior limb and four on each posterior.
Claws on fore feet rather broad and those on hind feet narrow and longer.
Scales on limbs well developed superiorly.
Tail short conic and rather weak.
Carapace slightly ovoid when viewed from above with its greatest width opposite posterior portion of fourth vertebral plate.
Anterior carapace a little emarginate.
Carapace deepest when viewed laterally about middle of its length or tops of crests of second and third vertebral plates highest with profile sloping down gradually in front and behind.
Lower margin of carapace sloping gently down to a point above suture of seventh and eighth marginal plates then turns upward and outward a little to descend again behind.
Vertical and horizontal measurements of marginal plates forming bridge with plastron or fifth sixth and seventh about equal.
Edges of marginal plates from sixth backwards sharp and becoming more revolute to most posterior.
Axillary and inguinal plates well developed.
Each vertebral plate except posterior which is evenly convex with a median keel surmounted by a more or less well developed osseous tubercle posteriorly and best developed proceeding to last.
Each plate of carapace with conspicuous concentric rings.
Plastron a trifle ovoid and its greatest width would fall a trifle in advance of its middle or about middle of bridge.
Front of plastron nearly truncate or its anterior edge only very slightly emarginate.
Behind bridge sides of plastron nearly parallel to posterior margin of femoral plate where there is a prominent notch and then more convergent to ends of anal plates which are furnished with a deep notch on median Une.
Epidermal plates of plastron smooth.
Color in life.
Carapace deep dusky with perhaps faint or obscure darker mottlings.
Inferior portion of marginal plates of carapace of the same shade of pale yellowishbrown as the plastron though at each sutiue a broad blackish blotch.
These blotches are most distinct and conspicuous on the bridge those of posterior plates very narrow.
Plastron dull or pale yellowishbrown and articulation of each plate with a broad irregular blackish margin at least anteriorly.
Head legs feet and tail paleslaty or plumbeous and former speckled or spotted with a dark or duskyslaty.
On legs this is evident as each scale has a dark or slaty center.
Jaws whitish or of a whitish horncolor.
Top of head pale or light.
Eye grayish.
Claws horncolor dark or brownish above.
Length of carapace 7 inches.
Type No.
16570 A. N. S. P. Boca Grande Key Florida.
June 18 1904.
H. W. Fowler.
Clarence B. Moore Collection.
This form is known to me only from the above described example which was collected in a pool among the mangroves of Boca Grande Key together with Natrix.
It did not appear to me to be especially abundant on the islands we visited whether for seclusive habits or other reasons I could not tell.
It was reported from other islands within the limits of our trip however.
As it is highly valued as food it is much sought after.
Provisionally as a form of Malaclemmys littoralis of Prof. Hay from the Texas coasts it may be recognized as a distinct subspecies.
Although he had a very large series of individuals the sutures of the marginal plates of the carapace are not described as black which is the case in the example before me.
His figures do not show this and certainly the colored one of the adult is different.
I have recently had the opportunity of examining a large series of several hundred living examples of Malaclemmys centrata Latreille through Dr. Samuel G. Dixon in the markets of Philadelphia.
Most of these were said to have been procured near Savannah Georgia.
Great variations in color were noticed some individuals approaching the above described example very closely wdiile others had perfectly uniform plastrons etc.
Most of the variations like those figmed under Emys concentrica by Sowerby and Lear were found.
Rhizophora Mangrove.
' Bull.
Bureau of Fish. XXIV 1905 p. 18.
 Tort.
Terrap.
Turt. 1872.
Four figures referable to Pis.
3355 and 36 are not numbered in the copy before me.
8 114 March NEW EARE OR LITTLE KNOWN SCOMBROIDS NO.
3.
BY HENRY W. OVLER.
CHLOROSCOMBRIN.
Chloroscombrus hesperius sp.
nov.
Fig.
1.
Head 4 depth 2i D. i VIIII 26 A. III 25 P.'ii 17 V. I 5 scale.s 98
squamation injured in lateral line to base of caudal depth of head over middle of orbit Ij in its length width of head 2 mandible 2 third dorsal spine 2y second dorsal ray 2 first anal ray 2 ventral 2 snout 3f in head measiued from tip of upper jaw eye 2f maxillary 2 interorbital space 3f  least depth of caudal peduncle 5 upper caudal lobe 3 in head and trunk pectoral 2f .
Body rather shorter than in C. chrysurus strongly compressed Chloroftcombrns hesperms Fowler.
ovoid lower profile much more convex than upper and greatest depth at base of spinous anal.
Caudal peduncle long slender compressed and its least depth about 3 in its length.
Head deep compressed.
Snout short forming obtuse profile upper surface convex and upper jaw little produced.
Eye rather large circular and a little high and anterior.
Adipose eyehd broad posteriorly and covering a good portion of iris.
Mouth obliquely vertical rather small and mandible well protruded.
Maxillary reaching opposite front margin of eye and its distal expanded extremity a trifle less than pupil or about f of orbit.
Teeth minute in bands in jaws and also present on vomer palatines and tongue.
Tongue long rather narrow with rounded tip and free in front.
Lips thin except lower on side of mandible.
Interorbital space elevated and with a median elevated trenchant keel extending to occiput.
Nostrils adjoining near upper .front rim of orbit and posterior larger.
Gillopening extending forward about opposite posterior nostril.
Rakers 1033 slender compressed and longest f of orbit.
Filaments about flength of longest rakers and pseudobranchiae about same size.
Isthmus narrowly compressed and its edge not trenchant.
Scales small cycloid and forming convex series bulging posteriorly over costal region.
A few small scales on occipital region postocular region and on opercle above head otherwise naked.
Spinous dorsal and anal depressible in narrow scaly sheaths.
Soft dorsal and anal anteriorly with basal scaly sheaths and rays more or less depressible within.
Lateral line convex anteriorly its bulge about equal to If in straight portion and no keel.
Spinous dorsal small inserted nearly midway between tips of upper jaw and pectoral and fomth or fifth spine probably longest damaged.
Soft dorsal inserted nearly midway between front rim of orbit and base of last dorsal ray a little in front of straight part of lateral line and first few rays elongated a little.
Soft anal similar inserted a little in advance of soft dorsal.
Origin of spinous anal about last third in space between origin of ventral and that of soft anal second spine probably a little longer first damaged.
Caudal rather large lobes slender pointed and upper much longer.
Pectoral long slender and reaching about opposite first third of base of anal.
Ventral inserted a little behind origin of pectoral small both fins depressible in a groove extending to and containing vent and when depressed thus reaching J of space to spinous anal.
Color in alcohol more or less silvery and back above brownish.
A small dull or pale brown spot on upper edge of opercle.
Head pale brown above.
Eye dull brassy.
Fins pale brownish spinous dorsal and upper anterior dorsal rays with a little brownish.
A blackish blotch at base of upper caudal lobe.
Length 6f inches.
Type No.
11198 A. N. S. P. West Africa.
Dr. H. E. Savage.
This species is closely related to Scomber chloris Bloch with which it may possibly prove identical.
However that form if the original figure is to be trusted is very close to Scomber chrysurus Linnaeus.
It will be seen to differ from C. chrysurus in the slightly deeper form larger eye more anterior insertion of the anal and longer pectoral.
The gillrakers are about the same.
'EfTTTipco western with reference to the type locality.
TRACHINOTIN.
GLATJCUS Walbaum.
Klein in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen. Pise III 1792 p. 585 with Scomber amia Linnseus as type has priority over Hypacantus Rafinesque Carat.
Alcun.
Nuov.
Gen. Spec.
An.
Piant.
Sicilia 1810 April 1st p. 43 Hypacanthus Hypacantha Hypodis Hypodys Rafinesque  Lichia Cuvier Porthmeus Valenciennes.
Glaucus amia Linnseus examined.
CAMPOGEAMMA Regan.
Campogramma Regan is distinct as an examination of Campogramma glaucus Linnseus shows.
TEACHINOTUS Lac6p6de.
PAMPANOA subgen.
nov.
Type Choetodon glaucus Bloch.
Anterior rays of dorsal and anal prolonged so that they form long falcate lobes.
Caudal long and triangular.
Side with several dark transverse vertical bars at least above.
Trachinotus glaucus Bloch examined.
Pdmpano Spanish a common vernacular for the fishes of this genus and mostly written Pompano.
Subgenus TRACHINOTUS Lacepde.
T. ovatus Linnseus T. falcatus Linnaeus T. goreensis Cuvier and T. carolinus Linnseus examined.
STROM ATEIDiE.
STROMATEIN.
Subgenus STROM ATEUS Linnfeus.i Stromateus brasiliensis sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Head 4J depth 2i D. V 40 A. V 37 P. II 18 width of head 1 in its length snout 3f  eye 4f maxillary 3f  interorbital space 2f  Stromateus fiatola Linnseus examined.
1906.
117 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral damaged a little less than head upper lobe of caudal damaged about 3 in head and trunk about 125
scales in a lateral series from gillopening below lateral line to base of caudal.
Body ovate deep compressed and greatest depth about origins of rayed dorsal and anal.
Back rather trenchant before dorsal.
Caudal peduncle compressed its least depth about f of its length.
Head deep compressed blunt in front profiles steep and upper a little concave in front.
Snout blunt convex and profile in front nearly vertical.
Eye rather small circular a little low and posterior margin 4.
Fig.
2.
 Stromateus hrasiliensis Fowler.
about midway in length of head.
Adipose eyelid well developed and concealing a good portion of eye.
Mouth a little inclined small and mandible hardly protruded in front.
Maxillary not quite reaching front rim of orbit and distally expanded till about equal to pupil.
Teeth minute uniserial and forming a rather weak cutting edge.
Palatines with minute asperites.
Vomer edentulous.
Tongue smooth broad rounded and free in front.
Nostrils adjoining a little nearer front of snout than front margin of eye and posterior larger.
Interorbital space elevated trenchant a keel beginning at the internasal region.
Preopercle broad and with radiating flutings.
Opercle striate.
Gillopening extending forward about opposite front margin of eye.
Rakers 5  13 pointed longest about  of longest filaments which are f of orbit.
Pseudobranchise a trifle longer than longest raker.
Isthmus rounded.
Scales small and extending well out on most of fins almost entirely on dorsals and anals where they are greatly reduced and crowded.
Head naked except cheek and opercle.
Lateral line damaged convex at least anteriorly.
Dorsal apparently over middle of pectoral spines graduated to last which is longest though not as high as longest anterior rays.
Anals similar though origin of spinous well posterior a little before end of pectoral.
Only first 7 or 8 rays of rayed dorsal and anal a little longer than others.
Caudal large forked and lobes rather broad.
Pectoral broad its origin a little above lower rim of orbit.
Anus placed nearly opposite origin of spinous dorsal.
Color in alcohol pale brown mostly uniform or the back onlya trifle darker and marked with indistinct traces of numerous crowded slightly darker or grayish spots.
Fins pale brown pectoral a trifle darker.
Iris dull brassy.
Length 13f inches.
Type No.
11354 A. N. S. P. Rio Grande do Sul Brazil.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Cambr. Mass.
One example which does not agree with Gay's figure of Stromateus maculatus
This is very poor as no squamation whatever is indicated the fins are naked also the head there is no adipose eyelid opercle and preopercle without striae and the spots are greenishgolden the lower ones brighter.
The dorsal shows VI 38 and the anal III 32.
Jenyn's Chiloe example  had D. VII 41 and A. V 50 and the one from Port St. Julien in Central Patagonia is possibly identical with S. hrasiliensis.
The original account of S. maculatus by Valenciennes states that the spots are yellow.
Brasiliensis of Brazil.
 PTERORHOMBUS subgen.
nov.
Type Fiatola fasciata Risso.
Fiatola Risso Hist.
Nat.
Eur.
Merid. Ill 1S26 p. 289 fasciata.
Not of Cuvier.
Small ventrals present.
Strornateus fasciata Risso examined.
2 Ail.
Hist.
Chile Zool. 1854 lam 3bis' fig.
i. '
Zool.
Voy.
Beagle IV Fish 1842 p. 74.
 Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 296.
Urspov fin with reference to ventral 'popioi Rhombus a rhomb or diamond and formerly applied to species of Seserinus Palometa and Poronotus.
SESEKINTJS Quoy and Gaimard.
Seserinus Cuvier in Quoy and Gaimard Voyage de TUranie ZooL Jan.Mar. 1825 p. 384 xanthurus has priority over Peprilus Cuvier Regne Animal Ed.
II II 1829 p. 214 longipennis  paru now in use.
Cuvier's account in I.e.
.
Ed.
I II 1817 p. 342 alepidotus  paru cannot be used on account of its vernacular form.
Seserinus xanthurus Quoy and Gaimard examined.
NOMEID.
Psenes chapmani sp.
nov.
Fig.
3.
Head 3 depth H D. X I 23 A.
Ill 25 P. ii 17 V. I 5 scales 60 in lateral line to base of caudal  9 scales vertically between origin of soft dorsal and lateral line and about 25 vertically between latter and origin of soft anal  width of head 2 in its length  depth of head over middle of eye about equal to its length  snout 3i  eye 3  maxillary 3  interorbital space 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 3 pectoral Ij ventral If.
Body deep compressed rather ovoid profiles similar and greatest depth about origin of soft anal.
Caudal peduncle compressed and its least depth about 1 in its length.
Head deep compressed profiles steep and similar blunt in front.
Snout short blunt convex upper jaw but slightly projecting.
Eye rather large circular anterior and its lower margin about midway in depth of head.
Mouth small jaws about even and maxillary extending obliquely down barely opposite front margin of orbit.
Teeth in jaws uniserial rather pronounced well separated and sharp.
No teeth on roof of mouth.
Tongue rounded and free in front.
Nostrils small very close together and well in front of eye above.
Interorbital space convexly elevated.
Gillopening extending forward about opposite front rim of orbit.
Rakers 1120 clavate a little shorter than filaments which are aljout 2 in orbit.
Pseudobranchise nearly as large as filaments.
Scales small those above lateral line forming series parallel with its course and those below forming horizontal longitudinal series.
Except interorbital space supraocular region nasal region snout mandible and branchiostegal region head is covered with scales those on middle of cheek and opercle largest.
About 7 series on cheek.
Scales in front of spinous dorsal small and crowded.
Vertical fins 120 March almost entirely scaled over most of basal regions which form sheaths for spinous dorsal and anal and also rayed dorsal and anal at least anteriorly.
Only ends of caudal lobes naked.
Scales on bases of these fins also small and crowded.
Base of pectoral scaly.
Ventral with innermost ray united to abdomen by a membrane and both fins depressible in a groove.
Lateral line cmved similarly with profile of back also approaching it more closely posteriorly and extending a little above middle of side of caudal peduncle.
Lateral line not extending on base of caudal and tubes simple.
Spinous dorsal inserted a trifle in advance of origin of pectoral spines flexible and graduated to foiuth which is longest.
Soft dorsal Fig.
3.
 Psenes chapmani Fowler.
inserted a little nearer tip of snout than base of caudal or about over middle of pectoral and fin a little higher anteriorly.
Anal similar spines graduated to third which is longest and rayed fin inserted perhaps a trifle in advance of rayed dorsal.
Caudal forked lobes rather long and pointed.
Pectoral broad hardly reaching half way to tip of last anal ray.
Ventral inserted a little behind origin of pectoral and reaching second anal spine.
Anus in ventral groove before tip of ventral fin.
Color in alcohol rich warm brown lower surface paler evidentlysilvery in life.
Along ea'h series of scales on side of body a narrow streak or line of darker color than general bodycolor.
Above lateral line these also follow series of scales parallel with it and below it they are also horizontal.
Lower side of head including cheek and opercle spotted or dotted with brown.
Spinous dorsal and ventrals duskjbrown.
Rayed dorsal with more or less pale duskybrown on its outer portion.
Caudal and anal paler.
Pectoral pale brownish.
Inside of mouth pale.
Iris brassy.
Peritoneum whitish.
Length 3f inches.
Type No.
14621 A. N. S. P. Taken on the surface of the open Atlantic in Lat.
24 21' N. Long.
34 32' W. northwest of Cape de Verde Islands.
Dr. W. H. Jones.
Also seven paratypes with same data.
The very young differ in hadng the body marked with large blotches no longitudinal lines on side and lower parts of head together with thorax marked with numerous brown spots.
Larger example with 28 rays.
Young examples also from the open Atlantic's siuface in Lat.
23 53' N. Long.
53 06' W. northwest of the Lesser Antilles.
Another also from the Atlantic in the Saragossa Sea.
All from Dr. William H. Jones.
The East Indian form  needs comparison.
Psenes guttatus apparently differs in coloration especially the spotted thorax and lower surface of the head.
None of my examples show a trace of the bluish bar indicated by Valenciennes.
Psenes edwardsii Eigenmann has a little different radial formula and about 140 scales in the lateral hne.
Dedicated to Dr. Henry C. Chapman Professor of Institutes of Medicine and Medical Jurisprudence in the Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia who has contributed many valuable additions to the ichthyological collections of the Academy.
LBPODIDffi fam.
nom.
nov. LEPODUS Rafinesque.
Carat.
Alcun.
Gen. Spec.
An.
Plant .
Sicilia 1810 p. 53 saragus  raii is to be used as Brama Klein in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen.
Pise. Ill 1792 p. 586 with Cyprinus brama Linnaeus as type preoccupies Brama Schneider Syst.
Ichth. Bloch 1801 p. 98 based on Sparus rail Bloch.
The Pomfret Lepodus rail Bloch examined.
6 Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IX 1833 p. 193 PI.
265.
Bull.
U. S. Fish.
Comm. XXI 1901 1902 p. 35 fig.
From under a medusa 30 miles south of Newport Rhode Island.
OORYPHuNIDuE.
Coryphoena equiselis Linnaeus is of perfectly correct form and not to be emended to C. equisetis as some writers seem to suppose.
Further it is not a misprint for the latter but simply a different form of the same.
A small example 25 mm.
in length from between the Cape de Verde Islands and Montevideo Uruguay examined.
PEMPHERIDJB.
PEMPHEEIS Cuvier.
PRIACANTHOPSIS subgen.
nov.
Type Petnpheris mulleri Poey.
Anal rays 25 to 32.
Pempheris mulleri Poey examined.
Upcwv saw aKavOa spine 6pi appearance.
So named as these fishes resemble the young of Priacanthus.
This paper concludes the series.
MOLLITSCA OF THE SOUTHWESTERN STATES.
II.
BY H. A. PILSBRY AND J. H. FERRISS.
The present paper deals with molliisks of Texas New Mexico and Arizona collected chiefly by the authors in 1903 and not included in the first paper of this series. No attempt has been made to present complete faunas  but in connection with the previous paper about all the reliable data extant upon the snail faunas of the Chiricahua and Huachuca ranges in southeast Arizona and the eastern and southern borders of the Lower Sonoran area in Texas will be found herein. It has not been thought expedient to repeat data elsewhere accessible.
For the student of molluscan distribution the life zones of the United States as mapped by Dr. Merriam  emphasize the secondary and not the primary facts of distribution.
The laws of temperatui'e control which he has developed with keen insight do not define transcontinental zones of primary import zoologically.
These zones are secondary divisions of vertical life areas of which the molluscan faunas were evolved in large part independently.
The Sonoran fauna is probably intermingling more now with that of eastern North America than at any former time at least so far as such sedentary forms as land mollusks are concerned.
Similar conclusions have been reached by Mr. A. E. Brown in dealing with Texan reptiles.
 The results of his study establish three facts hitherto not wholly free from imcertainty  first that the boundary between the Austroriparian and Sonoran reptilian faunas lies approximately between the 96th and 98th meridians of longitude in Texas second that the restricted Texan district of Cope is not Austroriparian but Sonoran third that transcontinental zones of distribution cannot be maintained in the Medicolumbian region for reptiles. '
' 1 Proc.
A.N.S.
Phila. 1905 p. 211.
 Some New Mexican records chiefly from material collected by Prof. T. D. A. Cockerel
in tlie upper Pecos valley are added. '
Biological Survey U. S. Dept.
of Agriculture Bulletin No.
11 Map.
North American Fauna No.
25 Plate I.
 Texas Reptiles and their Faunal Relations Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1903 pp.
.543558.
PostGlacial Nearctic Centers of Dispersal for Reptiles Proc.
A.N.S.
Phila 1904 p. 464.
.
.
.
.
the community in reptiles between the Sonoran and the Austroriparian is much less than that between the Sonoran and the Central it is in fact limited to widely ranging genera .... the separate identity of these two faunas Sonoran and Austroriparian as far back as they can be traced confirms the conclusion already reached from their present distribution that the association of the Sonoran with the Austroriparian into one transcontinental zone is unnatural.
This terse statement only requires the substitution of ' ' mollusks ' ' for reptiles to serve as a summary of the results of oiupresent investigation.
In land mollusks as in reptiles the Sonoran types have pushed farther into the humid Austroriparian than the eastern types into the Sonoran area.
Bulimulus and the texasiana group of Polygyra are cases in point  while Eastern subgenera of Polygyra and practically all Austroriparian forms except the minute widely ranging genera stop short at the rise marking the approximate limit of the Cretaceous formation and the Sonoran area in Texas.
The common boundary of the Austroriparian and Sonoran while surprisingly sharp for continuous areas is deeply accidented by the river valleys which carry very narrow Austroriparian ramifications into Sonoran borders.
Thus along the San Marcos river in Hays county the Guadalupe river in Comal county and the San Antonio river in Bexar county an Austroriparian fauna with such Eastern forms as Omphalina Polygyra thyroides P. monodon fraterna P. auriformis P. roemeri Bidimulits d. liquahilis etc. is found while the fauna on the bluffs or away from the streams is frankly Sonoran.
Farther southwest the Austroriparian forms are wholly wanting even where moist local conditions prevail as in the inunediate vicinity of the streams of Val Verde county.
A list of the forms characteristic of the eastern or lower portion of the Sonoran in Texas Texan District of Cope follows  Praticolella berlandieriana Strohilops I. texasianus Thysanophora hornii Zonitoides nummus Polygyra hippocrepis Vitrea indentata umbilicata Polygyra texasiana hyperolia Vitrea dalliana roemeri Polygyra t. texasensis Euconulus cher sinus trochulus Polygyra mooreana Helicodiscus eigenmanni Bulimulus d. mooreanus Planorhis carus Bulimulus d. ragsdalei Planorbula obstructa  This species extends somewhat into the Austroriparian.
Bulimulus d. pecosensis Goniohasis comalensis Bulimulus alternatus marioe Palvdestrina seemani Holospira roemeri Paludestrina diaholi Holospira goldfussi Ammicola comalensis Microceramus texanus Cochliopa riograndensis Euglandina singleyana Potamopyrgus spinosus Bifidaria procera cristata Valvata micra Nine genera of this list are not known to occur in the Austroriparian or humid region of Texas.
For list of the latter fauna the student is referred to the catalogue of Mr. J.
A. Singley cited below from which a long list of Austroriparian forms of Eastern type may readily be compiled.
The fii'st hst of Texan mollusks of any extent was published by Romer in his excellent work on Texas 1849.
Numerous references to the terrestrial mollusks will of course be found in Binney's successive volumes.
In 1878 Mr. A. G. Wetherby published some notes on the forms he found in eastern Texas American Naturalist for 1878 pp.
184 254.
The principal source of information however is Mr. J.
A. Singley's Contributions to the Natural History of Texas part I Texas Mollusca published in the Fourth Annvxil Rep. Geol.
Survey of Texas 1893.
In this list Mr. Singley has included with the records of his own extensive collecting others from many sources so that the records are of unequal value.
The Texan list stands much in need of revision and a good many names thereon are doubtless to be rejected either because the forms do not occur in Texas as in the case of Ampullaria or because of wrong identifications  yet the work cannot be done until resident naturalists take it up.
HELICINID.
Helicina orbiculata tropica 'Jan' Ptr.
Texas San Marcos Hays county Comal county around New Braunfels San Antonio Bexar county two miles north of Hondo Medina county Del Rio Devil's river and High Bridge of the Pecos Val Verde county.
Some colonies are all white others are mingled with red or blue shells.
HELIOID.
Praticolella berlandieriana Moric.
Figs.
1.
2.
Texas San Marcos Hays county Guadalupe river above New ' By error Mr. Wetherby's name was printed W. G. Weatherby Braunfels Comal county San Antonio Bexar county Hondo river two miles north of Hondo Medina county Del Rio Val Verde county.
Mr. Ferriss took some thin translucent specimens 8x10 mm. at Smith ville.
The shell varies from 9.8 to 11.7 mm.
diam.
The pubFig.
1.
Fig.
2. lished figmes do not show that there is frequently a short lamellar tooth or callous on the parietal wall near the suture a short distance within as shown in the figured specimen from the Guadalupe river near New Braunfels.
Thysanophora hornii Gabb.
Texas Hondo river near Hondo Medina county Rio San Filipe near Del Rio Devil's river west of Del Rio and Pecos river at the High Bridge Val Verde county all in river drift.
New Mexico Florida mountains near Deming Grant county.
Arizona Cochise county Cave creek canyon in the Chiricahua mountains Fort Bowie drift of San Pedro river at Benson and Manilla mine at the west end of the Huachuca mountains.
This small species is a typical Thysanophora closely related to the type of the genus.
It varies but little throughout its extensive range unless it be in the cuticular lines and hairs which are worn off of the riverdrift specimens.
It has not before been reported in this country from east of Cook's Grant county N. M. Our collection of 1903 extended its known range in the United States more than 500 miles eastward to the border of the Staked Plains in centralsouthern Texas.
Further localities in Arizona are given in Nautilus XII p. 99.
In Mexico T. hornii has been collected at Topo Chico near Monterey Nuevo Leon and at Victoria Tamaulipas Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1903 p. 763.
It is therefore one of the widely distributed species of the States both north and south of the international boundary in the Sonoran area.
Polygyra auriformis Bid.
Helix auriformis Bland Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist of N. Y. VII p. 37 1858.

Helix sayii Wood Index Testaceologicus Suppl. p. 22 pi.
7 p. 34 n 1828 .
Texas Galveston J. H. Ferriss Calhoun county Hubbard 1906.
127 Austin and San Antonio Pilsbry 1885 along the Guadalupe river three or four miles above New Braunfels Ferriss and Pilsbry.
Singley adds the localities Bastrop and Burleson counties.
It is an Austroriparian species which reaches into the borders of the Lower Sonoran area along the river bottoms.
While the identity of Wood's H. sayi with auriforfnis is not established with sufficient certainty to make a substitution advisable in our opinion yet there can be no doubt that Wood had either that species or one of its immediate allies.
Helix sayi of Binney 1840 being a homonym may be changed to Polygyra sayana Terrestrial Mollusks III pi.
XXIII.
Polygyra hippocrepis Pfr.
Figs.
3 4.
The known range of this curious snail is exceedingly restricted.
It has been found only near New Braunfels in Comal county Texas.
We found it in abundance in April 1903 on the west side of the Guadalupe river about four to six miles north of New Braunfels under stones near and at the foot of the bluff with Holospira goldfussi.
Another place much nearer the town is on the rocky wooded hillside above the springs of Comal creek where we found a few living ones.
This place is just beyond the pleasure gardens.
Fig.
4.
The structme of the aperture of P. hippocrepis has never been fully described or figured.
The parietal tooth is not Vshaped as in other PolygjTas but Ushaped hence the name hippocrepis  horseshoe.
There is an internal tubercle on the columella as in P. mooreana.
The upper and lower lipteeth enter and arch towards each other forming a Ushaped curve which stands close to but a little deeper than that formed by the parietal tooth.
Where the two entering teeth join there is a notch and a delicate slender hook with the point curved towards the adjacent basal wall projecting forward.
The immersion of the originally lower liptooth gives room for a secondary callous ridge along the basal lip as shown in fig.
4.
These structures form in their way a more perfect barrier perhaps than that produced by other means in P. auriculata and uvulifera.
The species stands isolated at present.
It is perhaps an aberrant and highly evolved relative of the TennesseeArkansas group of P. jacksoni etc.
Polygyra texasiana Moricand.
PI.
V flgs.
16 17 20.
Specimens of typical P. texasiana were taken by us in Hays Comal and Bexar counties Texas.
Ferriss took it at Galveston.
The type locality is ''Texas.
In this widespread form the last two whorls are strongly ribstriate above the riblets rapidly diminishing on preceding whorls  the embryonic whorl is smooth and glossy.
The ribs are strongest just behind the lip and here continue upon the periphery or to the base which is elsewhere nearly smooth or merely rippled.
Fresh shells show a reddish peripheral band on the pale brownishcorneous surface.
Specimens figured are from the west side of the Guadalupe river above New Braunfels Texas.
Alt.
5 diam.
11 mm.
Along the Rio Grande P. texasiana occurs with transition forms to P. t. hyperolia.
See below.
Form with striate base.
In some localities the ribs of the upper surface continue upon the base pi.
V figs.
18 19 Calhoun county Texas the other characters being unchanged.
There are transitions to the normal sculpture of texasiana in some specimens and we do not think it desirable to distinguish this form at present by a special name.
Its distribution must be more fully worked out than we have been able to do.
Calhoun county is on the Gulf coast near the southern angle of the State.
P. texasiana hyperolia n. subsp.
PI.
V figs.
13 14 15.
Shell more depressed than texasiana glossy very finely striate almost smooth above and below with several riblets behind the lipconstriction.
Uniform brownishcorneous or paler beneath without a peripheral haxid.
Aperture smaller and slightly more oblique than in texasiana.
Alt.
4 diam.
9.3 to 10 mm.
The type locality is the high land west of Devil's river.
This is the common Polygyra along the Rio Grande in Val Verde county extending north and northwest.
The specimens from down the river at Hidalgo .... county and Laredo Webb county collected by Singley are either texasiana or transitional between texasiana and hyperolia in sculpture.
At Del Rio along the Rio San Filipe Ferriss and I found still the texasiana and transition forms.
On the high land west of the Devil's river Val Verde county we found hyperolia in some numbers under prostrate Yucca trunks and sometimes concealed in the shelter of the downwarddrooping dead leaves on standing Yuccas.
From this region they have been washed into the Devil's river where bleached shells are abundantly found in the drift debris.
We also took specimens in the high land along the Pecos river near the High Bridge Viaduct on some maps east of the river and in drift debris in the canyon.
In the interior counties of Texas we took specimens in the drift of the Hondo river Medina county about two miles north of Hondo.
Much farther northward Mr. Ferriss found hyperolia at Colorado City Mitchell county Texas.
In New Mexico Prof. J. D. Tinsley collected it on South Spring creek near Roswell in the Pecos valley where it occurred fossil in a bed of white marl three to four feet below the surface.
It is not now found living in that locality.
We are indebted to Prof. CockereU for these specimens.''
P. t. hyperolia varies about as much as texasiana in size.
Specimens from west of Devil's river measure from 3.8x8 mm. with 4 whorls to 4.2 X 11 mm. with 5 whorls.
This variety is not the Helix Poly gyro tamaulipasensis of Lea which is typical P. texasiana as I have ascertained by a comparison of the type kindly made for me by Dr. W. H. Dall.
Polygyra texasiana texasensis Pils..
PI.
V figs.
11 12.
Polygyra texasensis Pils. Nautilus XVI p. 31 July 1902.
Similar to P. t. hyperolia in the depressed shape and smooth surface without riblets above but decidedly larger with about 5 whorls the umbilicus broader than is usual in the other forms of the species.
Alt.
5.2 diam.
12.5 mm.
Alt.
5.8 diam.
12.5 mm.
Alt.
5.8 diam.
13.7 mm.
Colorado City Mitchell county Texas  types collected by James H. Ferriss in 1902 No.
83258 A. N. S. Pliila.
This is a large edition of P. t. hyperolia and further collections from the almost unknown northwestern half of Texas are needed to determine whether it is really distinct enough from that subspecies to call for recognition of the latter by name.
In the large series of hyperolia collected there were however no forins as large as texasensis.
Polygyra mooreana W. 3.
Binn.
PI.
V figs.
410.
This species stands close to P. texasiana but the shell is smaller than ' Reported as P. triodontoides in The Nautilus XIII November 1899 p. 84.
9 any but the smallest texasiana and with about the same number of whorls 5 to 5 appears more closely coiled.
It is constantly distinct by the elongated columellar tubercle within the last whorl shown in fig.
9.
This tubercle seems to be what Binney erroneously describes as an internal transverse tubercle on the base of the shell  an expression which would lead one to expect such a structure as that found in the Stenotremas.
Binney states that the color is ''white but fresh shells are brownishcorneous a little paler and somewhat transparent at the base.
The diameter varies from 6.5 to 8 mm.
Variation in the degree of elevation is shown in the figures.
P. mooreana was originally described from Washington county Texas.
We took specimens at Smithville Bastrop county San Marcos Hays county around New Braunfels Comal county figs 47 and on the Hondo river north of Hondo Medina county figs.
8 9 10 ever3nvhere in copious quantity.
There are also specimens before us from Washington county Belton Fort Worth Waco Austin and Lee county.
Further records are given by Mr. Singley in his valuable catalogue.
It was taken at Galveston by Ferriss.
Polygyra mooreana tholus W. G. Binn.
PI.
V figs l 2 3.
Larger than mooreana with the last whorl far more openly coiled below exposing more of the penultimate whorl in the much wider umbilicus.
Specimens from Washington county measure  Alt.
5.5 diam.
11 width of umbilicus 4.2 mm.
 whorls 7.
Alt.
4 diam.
8.2 width of umbilicus 3 mm.
 whorls 6.
This form holds such a relation to P. mooreana as P. d. sampsoni to P. dorjeuilliana being very openly coiled beneath with a deep and very long groove on the last whorl within the umbilicus.
The internal ridge is like that of P. mooreana.
It seems to be comparatively local in distribution and is certainly rare.
We have never seen a fresh specimen.
It was described from Washington county Texas the locality of the specimens figured.
It is in the collection of the Academy also from Calhoun county.
Ferriss took a few specimens at Galveston and Singley found it in Fort Bend and Brazos counties.
Von Martens reports a worn specimen found by Fried el at Vera Cruz Mexico.
Polygyra roemeri Pfr.
Smithville Bastrop county Texas Ferriss San Antonio Bexar county Pilsbry and Ferriss  near New Braunfels Comal county one specimen Pilsbry.
BULIMULID.
The genus Bulimulus in Texas has caused much perplexity to students.
Many and diverse have been the views held as to the rank and identity of the several forms.
Several times since the first visit of one of us to Texas in the winter of 188586 they have been carefully studied anew with each time larger materials and better knowledge of the country.
To the specimens already in the museum of the Academy about 1000 were added by our expedition of 1903 from central and western Texas and Indian Territory.
The series is divisible into two species B. dealhatus and B. alternatus marioe the first further split into numerous local races or subspecies.
The typical forms of B. alternatus and B. schiedeanus do not so far as we know extend into Texan territory both were described from Mexico where they range over a large area.
B. patriarcha W. G. B. unquestionably a form of schiedeanus was also described from Mexico Buena Vista and we have seen no specimen of it from within our borders. In the United States Bulimulus has not been found west of the neighborhood of El Paso.
We know nothing of what forms live in the State northwest of a line from Austin to San Antonio or north of the Southern Pacific Railroad from San Antonio westward to El Paso.
Beyond some extension of the ranges of B. dealhatus mooreanus and B. alternatus marioe little is to be expected from the great unknown area.
The following forms are now recognized  1.
B. dealhatus mooreanus W. G. B. Pfr.
Arid region of central and south Texas.
2.
B. d. liquahilis Rve.
Eastern and southeastern Texas.
3.
B. dealhatus Ssiy.
Alabama to Kentucky west to Kansas.
4.
B. d. ozarkensis P. and F. Northern and western borders of the Ozark uplift.
5.
B. d. ragsdalei Pilsbry.
Bluffs of Red river and southwestern Texas.
6.
B. d. pecosensis P. and F. Southwestern Texas.
7.
B. d. pasonis Pilsbry.
El Paso western Texas.
8.
B. alternatus marioe Albers.
Southern Texas.
Of these forms the anatomy of B. d. mooreanus B. d. liquahilis B. d. ragsdalei B. d. pecosensis and the Val Verde county race of B. alternatus marioe has been examined more or less fully.
All agree in having a rather short fusiform penis with a basal sheath which in We do not mean to deny that the forms mentioned occur in Texas.
The counties along the Rio Grande west of the mouth of the Pecos are still unexplored for shells and B. schiedeanus especially may turn up in this region.
132 March eludes the vas deferens a rather long and slender epiphallus and a flagellum.
An atrium can scarcely be said to be developed but the vagina is rather long in all the forms.
The globular spermatheca is borne on a long duct which is lightly bound to the oviduct and is usually somewhat swollen near the middle.
The right eyeretractor passes between the d and 9 branches and there is an excessively weak and short penial retractor about I mm.
from the end of the flagellum and inserted on the hmg floor.
B. a. marice differs strongly from all forms of B. dealbatus by the great length of the penis with its appendages and of the duct of the spermatheca.
Moreover the penial organs are longer than the spermathecal duct while in mooreanus and pecosensis the spermathecal duct is the longer.
These differences confirm the opinion derived Fig.
5.
 A Bulimulus a. marice.
B B. d. liquabilis.
C B. d. pecosensis.
D penis of a fullv mature individual of same E B. d. ragsdalei.
F penis of another individual.
G B. d. mooreanus.
Fig.
D X 2 the other figures X 2. from a study of the shells that B. alter nat us and dealbatus are well differentiated specifically.
The measurements of the genitalia in millimeters follows 1906.
133 Total lengthl Length  of penis I of penis Length epiphallus  to insertion of and of vas vagina flagellum.
 deferens'.
Length 
of sperm aMuseum theca with number duct.
B a. maria Pecos river Del Rio 58 45 34 29 7 5 84627 84635 B. d. liquabilis San Marcos 36 29 11 27 91396 B. d. mooreanus Guadelupe river 23 16 6 30 i 84628 B. d. ragsdalei Devil's river j 16 10.5 5 17 84638 B. d. pecosensis 19 24 11.5 .5 j 6 20 84618 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Pliiladelphia 1906.
Page 183  Under heading Length of Spermatheea with duct first line of table change 5 to 50.
On last Hue of table change 1.5 to 15.
Distribution eastern division of the Lower Sonoran in Texas.
Originally described from ''Washington and DeWitt counties Texas.
Specimens from both of these are before us and also from Hays Comal Guadalupe Bexar Medina Frio Uvalde and Victoria counties.
Some shells from Fort Worth and Waco in northern Texas are also like mooreanus while others resemble B. d. liquabilis.
B. d. mooreanus is smaller thinner and smoother than the Mexican B. schiedeanus Pfr.
 but intergrades with B. d. liquahilis Rve.
through certain specimens having ragged dark streaks chiefly on the spire such as fig.
5 of pi.
VI.
In the main the subspecies is quite uniform eludes the vas deferens a rather long and slender epiphalliis and a flagellum.
An atrium can scarcely be said to be developed but the vagina is rather long in all the forms.
The globular spermatheca is borne on a long duct which is lightly bound to the oviduct and is usually somewhat swollen near the middle.
The right eyeretractor passes between the 3 and 
branches and there is an excessively weak and short penial retractor about 1 mm.
from the end of the flagellum and inserted on the lung floor.
B. a. marice differs strongly from all forms of B. dealbatus by the great length of the penis with its appendages and of the duct of the spermatheca.
Moreover the penial organs are longer than the spermathecal duct while in mooreanus and pecosensis the spermathecal duct is the longer.
These differences confirm the opinion derived r Fig.
5.
 A Bulimulus a. mariae.
B B. d. liquabilis.
C B. d. pecosensis.
D penis of a fully mature individual of same E B. d. ragsdalei.
F penis of another individual.
G B. d. mooreanus.
Fig.
D X 2 the other figures X 2. from a study of the shells that B. alter natus and dealbatus are well differentiated specifically.
The measurements of the genitalia in millimeters follows Wotal length j of penis epiphallus and flagellum.
 Length  of penis to insertion' of vas deferens .
Length vagina.
Length of spermatheca with duct.
Museum number.
B a. marioe Pecos river Del Rio 58 45 34 29 7 5 84627 84635 B. d. liquabilis San Marcos 36 29 11 1 27 1 91396 B. d. mooreanus Guadelupe river 23 16 6 30 84628 B. d. ragsdalei Devil's river .

10.5 5 17 84638 B. d. pecosensis 19 1 24 11.5 1.5 j 6 j 1 20 84618 B. dealbatus mooreanus ' W. G. B.' Pfr..
PI.
VI figs.
16.
Pfr. Monographia Hel.
Viv. VI p. 143 1868.
Bulimusschiedeanus in part W. G. Binnej Terr.
Moll. IV p. 129 pi.
80 fig.
8.
Bulimulus schiedeanus var.
mooreanus W. G. Binnej Terr.
MoU. V p. 392 figs.
277 278 Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 400 figs.
438 440.
The shell is thin ovateconic opaque white above coffeewithcream colored below the periphery or sometimes either white or coffeetinted throughout  sometimes varied with a few gray streaks or some scattered translucentgray dots surface smooth with the spire more or less striate apical whorls waxen or dark.
Umbilicus narrow.
Interior creamwhite.
Five specimens from New Braunfels measure Alt.
26 22.5 25.5 23 22.5 mm.
Diam.
16.5 13.5 14 12 13 Apertiue 15 12.8 12.6 11.8 12.8  Distribution eastern division of the Lower Sonoran in Texas.
Originally described from ' ' Washington and DeWitt counties Texas. '
' Specimens from both of these are before us and also from Hays Comal Guadalupe Bexar Medina Frio Uvalde and Victoria counties.
Some shells from Fort Worth and Waco in northern Texas are also like mooreanus while others resemble B. d. liquabilis.
B. d. mooreanus is smaller thinner and smoother than the Mexican B. schiedeanus Pfr.
 but intergrades with B. d. liquabilis Rve.
through certain specimens having ragged dark streaks chiefly on the spire such as fig.
5 of pi.
VI.
In the main the subspecies is quite uniform in characters and easily recognized.
It is the only Bulimulus found in the greater part of the region it inhabits and is one of the commonest forms in collections.
The specimens seen from Fort Worth are not unlike those referred to B. d. liquabilis from Waco and it is not easy to decide upon which race they belong to.
They are undifferentiated forms.
In Comal Guadalupe Bexar and Medina counties we found only typical mooreanus.
In Frio county the shells are somewhat more solid and often whiter.
In a series of 313 specimens from along the Guadalupe river above New Braunfels pi.
VI figs.
2 3 4 I could find but one shell with any of the ragged stripes of B. d. liquabilis.
In 165 taken along the river below San Antonio pi.
VI fig.
1 there were 7 with some ragged stripes at least on the upper whorls.
A series of 55 mooreanus from Victoria had 4 striped shells pi.
VI figs.
5 6.
The percentage of intergrading specimens is therefore small.
B. dealbatus liquabilis Reeve.
PI.
VI figs.
72.
Bxdimus liquabilis Reeve Conch.
Icon. V pi.
57 fig.
387 Dec 1848.
Bulimus confinis Reeve Conch.
Icon. V pi.
86 fig.
643 Feb. 1850.
Bulimulus schiedeanus Pfr. W. G. Binney Terr.
Moll. V p. 391 fig.
276 but not the description.
The shell is thin variable in shape but usually obese the aperture half the total length or more.
Translucentcorneous or brownishcorneous more or less profusely marked with opaque whitish ragged streaks.
Interior whitish or colored like the outside.
This is the form of the humid Austroriparian zone in Texas as B. d. mooreanus is of the arid division.
Specimens are before us from the following counties Dallas McLennan Coryell Bell Travis Lee Hays Jackson Nueces.
Also from Limestone Gap Indian Territory.
Where the range of liquabilis adjoins that of mooreanus there is a belt of overlapping  but so far as we know the two do not actually occur together.
At San Marcos Hays county for instance B. d. liquabilis lives on the moist low alluvium along the San Marcos river while B. d. mooreanus is found on the Cretaceous limestone hills above the town.
It seems that the one form extends fingerlike up some of the streams while the other may occupy intervening upland or calcareous stations.
B. liquabilis and B. confinis were both described from Texas.
B. d. liquxibilis differs from mooreanus by the predominance of corneousbrown coloring.
It is also usually more globose and less smooth.
It is more globose than B. dealbatus with less convex whorls as a general rule yet there seems to be practically complete intergradation between the races and some Texas shells are not distinguishable from those of Alabama though most others could not be matched from east of the Mississippi.
On the whole the race has intimate relations to those east and west of it yet seems in its own area to be sufficiently differentiated to be recognized.
Specimens from Jackson county collected by J. D. Mitchell are typical of liquahilis.
They are small pi.
VI figs.
9 10 11 well striped as usual variable in the length of the spire and generally have a strong narrow liprib.
ram.
Alt.
18.7 20.5 18.5 18 21 Diam.
12 12.5 11 10 12 Aperture 11.5 11.5 10 9.5 11.5 Whorls 5i 5f 6 6 6 Shells from Lee county J.
A. Singley are larger more globose corresponding to Reeve's B. confinis.
The corneousbrown tint largely predominates over the reduced whitish streaks.
Liprib present in adults pi.
VI fig.
12.
Alt.
19 22 25 17.6 mm Diam.
14 14 15.2 11.5  Aperture 12 13 14.8 10.3  Whorls  6 6 6 Waco specimens mostly have the spire longer as do those from Belton Austin and San Marcos.
In the series from the latter locality Ferriss and Pilsbry 1903 there are about equal numbers of typical striped shells and nearly unicolored corneousbrown ones with indistinct whitish streaks alternating with pale reddish on the spire pi.
VI figs.
7 8.
They measure .It.
25.5 25.5 26 mm.
iam.
14 15 14.5  .perture 14 14 14 The genitaha of one of the unicolored shells are figured fig.
B.
The individual supplying the preparation was that shown in fig.
7 of plate VI.
Fig.
8 of the plate a streaked shell was found similar anatomically.
Judging by these shells the race liquahilis is quite appreciably different from mooreanus in the proportions of the genitalia.
Some specimens from Limestone Gap Indian Territory evidently belong to this race.
The shells figured by Binney as B. schiedeanus Manual of American Land Shells p. 399 fig.
437 are apparently B. d. liquobilis.
They are certainly not the true schiedeanus of which figures may be found in the Manual of Conchology.
Bulimulus dealbatus Say.
Pl.VI fig.
13.
Helix dealbata Say Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. II p. 159 1821.
Say gave the localities Missouri and Alabama.
His specimens in the Academy Museiun are labelled Alabama.
One of these three agreeing with the dimensions given by him is figured pi.
VI fig.
13 as the type of the species.
The Alabama form has a globose last whorl and rather large umbUicus.
The aperture is a little more than half the total length of the shell but much less than the diameter of the shell.
The shell is profusely striped with ragged white stripes on a pale brownish ground.
The type measures alt.
19.4 diam.
12.2 length of aperture 10.6 mm.
The same form occms in Tennessee Kentucky Warren county and west to Kansas Shawnee county.
Some specimens from the humid portion of Texas also seem to belong here.
B. d. ozarkensis n. subsp.
PI.
VI fig.
14 15.
B. dealbatus Say Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1903 p. 204 Seligman Mo..
On the northern and western borders of the Ozark uplift this form has been differentiated.
The whole shell and especially the last whorl is narrower the aperture is smaDer ordinarily half the total length or less and the umbilicus is narrower.
The shape is about that of B. d. ragsdalei but the last whorl is not ribstriate though the spire is weakly so.
Coloration as in dealbatus.
Specimens measure Locality.
Seligman.
Rogers Mam.
Spring.
Alt.
26 21.6 21 mm.
Diam.
13.2 10.5 11 Aperture 12.8 10 10.8  Whorls 7 7 6i Limestone Gap I. T. Alt.
22 21 20 20 17 mm.
Diam.
11.3 11.2 9.7 10.8 9.4  Aperture 11 10.2 9.5 10.8 9 Whorls H 6i 6 6i 6 Distribution northern and western outliers of the Ozark system Mammoth Spring Fulton county Arkansas  Sehgman Barry county southwestern Missouri fig.
14 Rogers Benton county Arkansas fig.
15  Lmaestone Gap Choctaw Nation Indian Territory.
While only weakly ciiaracterized this form seems to range over a considerable area and apparently deserves recognition by name.
B. dealbatus ragsdalei Pils .
PI.
VI flgs.
16 17.
Nautilus III p. 122 Man.
of Conch. XI p. 129.
The shell varies from the ovate shape of typical dealbatus to a more lengthened and slender form and is conspicuously ribstriate the striae white on a tawny or whiteblotched ground and weaker on the base of the shell.
The liprib is strongly developed.
Three adult specimens of the type lot measure Alt.
21.5 18.5 16.5 mm.
Diam.
10.8 10.3 8.3  Aperture 10 9.3 8 Whorls 6 6i 6 Only dead more or less bleached shells have been taken from the top of the Red river bluff at the southern end of Warren's Bend twentyfive miles northwest of Gainesville Cooke county and a mile north of St. Jo Montague county Texas.
Across the whole State of Texas nearly 400 miles distant this form reappears on the Rio Grande river in Val Verde county in an area inhabited also by B. alternatus marice.
We are quite unable to find any constant differences between these Southwestern shells and the Red river types although the apparent absence of the form in the intervening territory suggests that the similar forms of the two areas are independent parallel modifications of dealbatus stocks rather than actually connected genetically.
Yet it is quite possible that the widely sundered colonies have been or still are connected through the great conchologically unknown area northwest of the oblique line across the State marking the limit of our explorations.
Dead bleached shells were found in abundance on the high land west of Devil's river but the living ones for some time eluded us.
Finally we found them hidden under the dead reversed leaves which thatch the trunks of Yuccas and sometimes under prostrate dead Yuccas  retreats they share with the smooth race of Polygyra texasiana pi.
VI figs.
18 to 22.
The proportions vary a good deal a series of adult shells measuring  17 mm.
6 Alt.
26.5 20 20 21.5 19 16.5 Diam.
12.5 9.2 10.3 10 10.8 10 Aperture 12.5 9 10 10.5 10.7 9.3 Whorls 7i 7 61 6 6 5i The average size of 78 living shells is about 19 x 9 to 10 mm.
Fig.
18 represents the largest shell taken a dead one 26.5 mm.
long.
There is but little variation in sculpture among shells from this place.
Along the Rio San Filipe not far from the Rio Grande in chapparal on the east side we found numerous specimens differing from those of Devil's river by having the ribstriae nearly obsolete on the last whorl except just below the suture.
A large number of dead shells were found but only very few living ones pi.
VI figs.
23 24.
They have the dull reddish whitestreaked coloration and the shape of the Devil's river ragsdalei.
Bulimulus dealbatus peoosensis n. subsp.
PI.
VI figs.
26 27.
B. d. schiedeanus var. Pilsbry Man.
of Conch. XI p. 132 pi.
17 fig.
6.
The shell is conspicuously calcareous whitish with some fleshy or sometimes corneous or ochraceous streaks  upper whorls striate the last somewhat roughened by irregular growthwrinkles.
Spire long composed of numerous short convex whorls the suture nearly horizontal apex white or pale aperture small usually ochretinted in the throat lip strengthened by a rib within.
Alt.
31 29.7 26.5 24 22.8 21 mm.
Diam.
14.8 14 12.8 12 12.7 10.7  Aperture 15 14 12.7 10.3 11.5 10  Whorls 7i 7i 7i 7i 7 7 Trpe locality on the mesa about 1 miles southeast of the eastern end of the High Bridge of the Pecos Southern Pacific Railroad Val Verde county Texas.
We found one small colony of this form in the midst of the large darkmouthed B. alternatus marioe and like that chiefly living on Agave.
The extent of the colony was perhaps not more than 50 yards but as the sun had already set and we had just emerged from the labyrinthine side canyons of the Pecos we had time to collect only about thirtyfive specimens each most of them dead.
Everywhere else in the region around the High Bridge we found only B. a. marice.
This form is clearly a stunted race of the larger and less slender B. schiedeanus of the Mexican fauna.
B. schiedeanus has been considered specifically distinct from dealbatus by Binney and all the older authorities as well as by von Martens who gives a series of good figures in the Biologia Centrali Americana but while the typical schiedeanus is distinct enough there are not lacking specimeiLs suggesting intergradation with some forms of dealbatus.
If schiedeanus be retained as a distinct species then tle race pecosensis will be relegated to it as a variety.
Some specimens of pecosensis taken about thirty years ago by Dr. H. C. Wood probably as he informs' me from somewhere in the Great Bend of the Rio Grande were noticed in the Manual of Conchology Vol.
XI.
Bulimulus dealbatus pasonis Pils.
PI.
VI flg.
25 Pilsbry Nautilus XVI July 1902 p. 32.
The shell is smaller and more slender than any other form of dealbatus the diameter about half the aperture less than half the total length of the shell nearly smooth being sculptured with irregular growthwrinkles only.
The dead specimens are dull reddishcorneous with some streaks and mottling of opaque white.
Wliorls 5f to 6 quite convex.
Aperture small ovate the insertions of the lip and columella markedly approaching without an internal liprib in the specimens seen.
Umbilicus comparatively large.
Alt.
Diam.
Aperture Franklin mountain near El Paso Texas.
J. H.
Ferriss.
This is the most distinct as it is the most remote of the races of B. dealbatus and unless connecting forms come to light it may well be given specific rank.
The absence of regular striation on the spire the converging ends of the lip and the diminutive size combine to give it individuality.
As yet but few specimens have been found and in a single place.
Some individuals of the Val Verde county B. d. ragsdalei approach pasonis in size but in a series of about 200 examined none approach the other characters of the present race.
Bulimulus alternatus mariae Albers.
PI.
VII.
Die Heliceen p. 162 1850.
Binney Terr.
Moll. V p. 390 figs.
272 273 pi.
li a upper and lower figs.
 pi.
li b all figs.
This species is recognized by its dense solid calcareous texture oblong shape and colored usually dark brown or purplish interior and by the great length of the penis and spermathecal duct.
Its range extends in a wide belt along the Rio Grande from the Gulf at least to the Pecos river.
How much farther west we do not know.
B. marioe was named by Albers for his daughter Mary having been recognized as distinct on her birthday.
The type figured by Pfeiffer is a raggedstriped shell with only a low prominence hardly to be called 15.7 15.3 mm.
7.5 7.8  6.8 6.7  a tooth on the columella.
Shells of this exact form and coloringoccur at Laredo Webb county on the Rio Grande pi.
VII fig.
28.
In a general way the eastern typical form of marice from Frio county and Laredo eastward differs from the western Val Verde county form in several respects Southeastern Form.
Western Form.
Smaller more oblong lip more Larger more conic lip less thickthickened columella frequentened within no columellar ly toothed often with ragged tooth  of ten streaked  but withstreaks at least on the earlier out ragged or mottled streaks.
whorls.
PI.
VII lower three PI.
VII upper two lines of lines of figures.
figures.
We do not think it advisable at present to make a subspecifie separation especially since none of the names proposed apply to the western race.
The genitalia of this race are figured fig.
A.
While almost every colony of the eastern race has slight peculiarities in shape relative abundance or absence of the several colorforms etc. yet with large series the intergradation is seen to be so complete that we can find no ground for dividing them into several races as Prof CockereU proposes.
His plan Journal de Conchyliologie 1891 pp.
23 24 is as follows  1 With gray or brownish markings a.
Without a columellar tooth alternatus Say.
b. Columellar tooth present marice Alb.
2 Without color markings  a.
With no columellar tooth alhidus Taylor 6.
A columellar tooth .
.
hinneyanus Pfr.
MS. W. G. B.
  intermedius Singh Ckll. Corpus Christi.
The true B. alternatus type in coll.
A. N. S. has not been found north of the Rio Grande and in aU probability does not reach our limits.
The name hinneyanus is preoccupied so that were the race valid we should use for that form the name intermedius SingleyMS.
CkU. based on Corpus Christi shells.
The type locality of alhidus Taylor MS. Ckll.
is Derby Frio county Texas.
Many perfectly adult Corpus Christi shells have no columellar tooth and hence we should have to divide them between intermedius and alhidus.
Similarly various specimens selected from the Derby Frio county series before me would be either alternatus alhidus or intermedius while from the Hidalgo series all four of the supposed varieties may be selected.
The study of good series of shells taken at random and not selected shows that all lots of streaked shells are more or less mingled with white ones and in colonies of toothed shells fully adult and old individuals may be found without a tooth.
On the other hand there seem however to be colonies without raggedstreaked individuals and also communities in which no toothed shells are to be found.
Perhaps the colonies containing mottlestreaked or toothed individuals are mixed or hybrid communities.
It is a case where experiments on Mendelian lines by some one on the ground might be productive of valuable results.
In illustration of the foregoing remarks a few of the colonies represented in the collection of the Academy may be noticed in more detail.
In studying these races it is absolutely essential that the snails be collected alive.
The colors particularly of the interior are evanescent and fade quickly on exposure to the sun and weather though they change very little if at all in the museum.
Corpus Christi Nueces county pi.
VII figs.
13 14 15 16 collected by J.
A. Singley.
Of thickset compact contour strong with a thick creamtinted liprib which is sometimes brown stained.
Pinkish white almost uniform with some very inconspicuous grayish or fleshy streaks.
Not one in a lot of 43 is marked with hrown streaks outside.
Interior varying from pale yellow to reddish brown the darker tint exceptional.
Columella varying from strongly toothed to nearly straight.
Whorls 6 the earliest postembryonic not distinctly striated.
This form is the binneyanus Pfr. 
of Binney intermedins Singley MSS.
of Cockerell.
Alt.
Diam.
Apertme At Hidalgo Hidalgo county pi.
VII figs.
17 18 19 the shells are more slender white rarely streaked throughout fig.
17 but almost all of a series of 41 are variegated on the earlier whorls fig.
18.
Some are strongly toothed but most shells have no columellar tooth.
Interior brown.
Alt.
30 29.5 29 28.5 mm.
Diam.
13.5 13.5 13 14 Aperture 14 14.5 13.5 14.5  A series from Brownsville consists of similar but less elongated shells.
29 27.3 30 25 23 mm 16 14.5 15 14 12 16.3 14 15.3 14 11.5  At Derby Frio county pi.
VII figs.
20 21 22 23 24 the shells are bluish white with bluish streaks a few brown tinted with brown streaks.
The columellar tooth is small or wanting.
This form has been called albidus Taylor Ckll.
At Laredo Webb county pi.
VII lower line of figs.
 the shells are large and mostly long.
The lot consists of pme white and of coffeetinted brownstreaked shells with all intermediate forms.
A columellar tooth is exceptionally developed.
At Del Rio Val Verde county pi.
VII figs.
9 10 11 12 we found a more conic ice.
The shells are white often with some very faint grayish streaks.
Interior varying from ochreyellow to dark brown.
In the series of about sixty living shells before us none has mottled markings and while in a few there is a weak indication of the columellar tooth it is as a rule absent.
The larger ones measure 29 to 33 mm.
long 16 wide.
Some of the dead shells found in the same place are larger 35 x 18.5 to 37 x 17 mm.
A single albino was taken alive fig.
12.
These shells are from the plain along the San Fihpe river on the east side not far from the Rio Grande.
B. d. ragsdalei was found in the same place.
On the mesa west of Devil's river we found large dead shells like those from Del Rio but even larger often with a low lump on the parietal wall but no tooth on the columella.
39 x 20.5 to 35 x 16 mm.
At the Pecos High Bridge on agaves north of the railroad near the eastern end of the bridge we found Bidimulus abundant and finely developed pi.
VII figs.
1 to 7.
The shape varies but is always more conic than in the eastern localities.
It is either nearly uniform white or coffeetinted varied with oblique brown or purplish streaks these two colorforms in about equal numbers found together on the same plants and connected by intermediate examples.
Apex white.
The interior is very dark purplebrown.
The outer lip is usually but little thickened within and the columella has no tooth though often it is slightly salient in the middle.
Whorls 7 to 7.
Alt.
36 37.5 33.3 34.5 36 33.3 37 mm.
Diam.
19 19 17 17 17 16 15 Aperture 17.8 17.8 16 16 16 16 14.3  The last two measurements show the extremes of shape in a series of 150 Hving specimens No.
84627 A. N. S..
Another set from east of the Pecos canyon about a mile from the Rio Grande is similar.
The largest one measures alt.
38 diam.
20.3 aperture 19 mm.
pi.
VII fig.
8.
OLEAOINID.
Euglandina singleyana W. G.
Binn..
Glandina singleyana W. G. B. Fourth Supplement Terr.
Moll. V p. 163 1891.
Singley Contrib.
Nat.
Hist.
Texas p. 302.
Sinking Spring near San Marcos Hays county Texas young specimens only New Braunfels Comal county and its environs San Antonio Bexar county Hondo river drift near Hondo Medina county and in the canyon of the Pecos at High Bridge Val Verde county.
The last locahty is the extreme southwestern point known for the species.
Mr. Singley reports it also from Guadalupe Qohad Gonzales Travis CaldweU and Frio counties.
PUPILLID.
Pupilla muscorum L..
Benson Arizona.
Pupilla blandi Morse.
Texas Flood debris of Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfels Comal county.
New Mexico Pecos river drift at Pecos CkU..
The occurrence of this species near New Braunfels is anomalous that place lies far below its normal zone and the shortness of the Guadalupe river precludes the idea that it could have drifted any great distance.
Mr. Singley also found one specimen at or near the same place.
Pupilla hebes Anc.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1900 p. 589 pi.
22 figs.
9 10.
Huachuca mountains Cochise county Arizona.
Two out of about a dozen specimens are sinistral.
They are readily separable from the sinistral P. syngenes by the absence of a crest behind the outer lip.
Pupoides marginatus Say.
In Texas we took this species at San Marcos Hays county New Braunfels Comal county Hondo river Medina county and near the Rio Grande at Del Rio Devil's river four miles from mouth and drift of Pecos river near High Bridge Val Verde county.
Arizona  Drift of San Pedro river at Benson.
Bifidaria pellucida hordeacella Pils..
Texas Drift of Sinking Spring San Marcos Hays county Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfels Comal county Hondo river two miles north of Hondo Medina county Rio San Filipe near Del Rio Devil's river near its mouth and Pecos river near the High Bridge all in Val Verde county.
Arizona Benson.
New Mexico Drift of Pecos river at Pecos Ckll.
It varies somewhat widely in size and is found in great quantity in drift debris along all the Texan rivers explored.
Bifidaria pellucida parvidens Sterki.
Drift debris of Pecos river at Pecos New Mexico Ckll..
This subspecies has not before been reported from so far east.
Bifidaria procera Gld..
Texas  Drift of Sinking Spring San Marcos  Hondo river drift two miles north of Hondo Medina county.
The var.
cristata Pils.
and Van.
was found copiously in the drift of Guadalupe river Comal county near Del Rio Devil's river and Pecos river near the High Bridge Val Verde county.
Also Benson Arizona.
Bifidaria contracta Say.
Texas San Marcos Guadalupe river drift near New Braunfels Hondo river near Hondo Rio San Filipe near Del Rio Devil's river Pecos river near High Bridge.
Rather abundant in the river debris except on the Pecos where but three shells were found.
In 1885 Pilsbry took specimens at Galveston.
Bifidaria armifera Say.
Texas Drift of Guadalupe river four miles above New Braunfels Comal county Pecos river near High Bridge.
New Mexico Pecos on the Pecos river collected by T. D. A. Cockerell.
Bifidaria pentodon Say.
Texas Sinking Spring San Marcos Hays county Hondo river Medina county.
Vanatta has figured one of the specimens from San Marcos.
Nautilus XIX pi.
6 fig.
11.
Bifidaria tappaniana C. B.
Ad.
Pupa pentodon of authors not of Sav.
Texas Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfels Comal county figured by Vanatta Nautilus XIX pi.
6 fig.
12  Hondo river Medina county Devil's river Val Verde county.
Bifidaria perversa Sterki.
Drift debris of the San Pedro river at Benson Arizona Ferriss 1904.
Hitherto known from Nogales Arizona.
E. H.
Ashmun.
Bifidaria ashmuni Sterki.
Huachuca mountains Cochise county Arizona J. H.
Ferriss.
Also from the following places collected by E. H. Ashmun.
Arizona Near Jerome at Mescal Gulch Walnut Gulch Page's ranch Kirwagen's ranch and drift of Verde river Navajo Springs  Santa Rita mountains Oak Creek at Owensbys drift of Little Colorado river at Holbrook Nogales both north and south of the international boundary.
New Mexico Mountain station Oscura mountains Socorro county San Rafael Valencia county White Oaks Lincoln county.
Subgenus CHNAXIS nov.
The shell has a large hollow axis open below and about onethird the total diameter of the shell the structure otherwise being like Bifidaria s. str.
 peristome continuous and free.
Type B. tuba.
The Bolivian Infundibular ia infundibuliformis Orb.
 resembles B. iuha in having a very large umbilicus and we at first thought to associate the Arizonian species with it but Infundibularia differs by the strictly conic shell and in the aperture which shows but one lamella a very large anguloparietal.
Other lamellae or plicae if they exist must be very deeply immersed as in the group Immersidens.
The type of d'Orbigny's species has been lost and its internal structure is unknown.
It was found with Bifidaria nodosaria Orb.
 a minute species imperfectly described and figured but probably not distinct from B.
pelludda Pfr..
Bifidaria tuba n. sp.
Fig.
6.
Shell cylindric with a short apical cone openly umbilicate the umbilicus nearly onethird the diameter of the shell penetrating welllike to the apex.
Pale brown smooth with light growthlines only.
Whorls 5 convex the apex obtuse last three whorls forming the cylindrical part of the shell.
The last whorl is compressed around the umbilicus and scarcely straightened in front.
The aperture is shortoval the peristome continuous thin and well expanded.
The angular and parietal lamellae are combined into one long lamella notched on the summit where the two join the inner end of the angular projects a little on the right side.
The columellar lamella is massive slightly bifid deeply placed and enters about as deeply as the parietal.
There are small short upper and lower palatal and basal folds in the typical positions a short distance within the lip usually with a minute denticle between them and another at the base.
Length 3 diam.
L5 mm.
Drift debris of the San Pedro river Benson Cochise county Arizona.
'Types No.
87062 A. N. S.
Phila.
 cot5es in Ferriss collection.
A 'Voyage dans V Amerique Miridionale Mollusques p. 323 pi.
41 bis fig.
710.
10 146 Fig.
6. single immature specimen was taken by Rev.
E. H. Ashmun in drift of the Salt river at Tempe Arizona.
Remarkable for its ample umbilicus.
The freshest specimens are about the color of Pupoides marginatus.
None were taken alive.
In the adult shell opened fig.
6 the parietal and columellar lamellae do not enter deeply though they go so far that the inner end cannot be seen in the mouth.
One lroken shell from Tempe taken by Mr. Ashmun and which has been in coll.
A. N. S. P. for some years has a strong lamella on the columella apparently at least a halfwhorl long but not penetrating much farther than fig.
7 shows.
This lamella may perhaps be developed during the latter part of the neanic stage to be resored in the fully adult condition.
Further material is needed to demonstrate this.
It is possible that the Tempe shell represents a distinct species.
It tapers slightly more than the types from Benson.
Fig.
7.
Vertigo ovata Say.
Benson Arizona Drift of Devil's river Val Verde county Texas.
Vertigo binneyana Sterki.
Benson Arizona Ferriss.
Vertigo oscariana Sterki.
Drift debris of the Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfels Texas a single specimen a little larger and stronger than Eastern Austroriparian examples.
Vertigo milium Old.
San Marcos Hays county Guadalupe river above New Braunfels Comal county and on the Hondo river Medina county Texas in flood debris.
Only one specimen from each place among thousands of other Pupillidce etc.
Strobilops labyrinthica texasiana n. subsp.
Shell moderately elevated with domeshaped spire brown whorls 5 the first 1 smooth palecorneous the rest regularly ribbed obliquel the last whorl rounded periplierally or a trifle and obtusely subangular in front the riblets passing over undiminished upon the base which is as strongly sculptured as the upper surface or sometimes smoothish just in front of the aperture.
Aperture with expanded thickened peristome and strong parietal callus a single strong parietal lamella emerging to the edge of the callus a second weak one visible within.
About half a whorl inward there is a series of about six laminae the inner one upon the columella the next short strong and tongueshaped bending outward the third nearly twice as long high and sinuous the fourth very minute and low often wanting leaving a space the fifth and sixth long and low and just above the periphery on the outer wall a very weak low long seventh plica may usually be traced.
Umbilicus rather large.
Alt.
1.5 diam.
2.2 mm.
Types No.
91330 A. N. S.
Phila. from drift of the Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfels collected by Pilsbry and Ferriss 1903.
Other localities in Texas are Austin Pilsbry San Marcos Pilsbry and Ferriss New Braunfels Ferriss Pilsbry and Singley Guadalupe river bottom Victoria county and Lavaca river Jackson county J. D. Mitchell Lee county Singley Calhoun county E. W. Hubbard Gainesville J.
B. Quintard.
A smaller form diam.
2 mm. was taken in drift debris of the Hondo river about two miles north of Hondo Medina county Ferriss and Pilsbry.
It also ranges northward into Indian Territory and to Kansas.
This form which for the present we subordinate to the old S. labyrinthica is the only Strohilops except S. hubbardi which I have seen from Texas.
It may be distinguished from S. virgo by the costulate base wider umbilicus and far weaker inner parietal lamella.
S. strebeli is a much more depressed cone.
The statement by Woodward copied into American works that H. labyrinthica occurs in pretertiary Eiuropean strata is misleading since the American species is really not identical with any from European strata though there are numerous allied forms in the European tertiaries.
The genus became extinct in Europe but survives in China Helix diodontina Heude being a Strobilops.
In America it has not been found in the Northwest or Pacific States but extends south to Mexico the West Indies and Venezuela and a species apparently belonging to the genus has been described from the Galapagos.
VALLONIID.
Vallonia excentrioa Sterki.
Galveston under boards in a vacant lot.
Pilsbry December 1885.
Vallonia perspeotiva Sterki.
Texas  Drift debris of Devil's river and of Pecos river near the High Bridge Val Verde county.
Arizona Benson in drift of San Pedro river.
Vallonia gracilicosta Reinh.
New Mexico Drift of Pecos river at Pecos Cockerell.
Vallonia cyclophorella Anc.
Arizona  Drift of San Pedro river Benson Cochise county a single specimen.
COOHLIOOPIDiE.
Shell oblong cylindricoblong or narrowly tapering smooth and glossy with imperforate axis  aperture ovate or acuminate the columella notched below or continuous with the basal lip.
Foot without pedal grooves.
Kidney with direct ureter of the Basommatophorous type.
Genitalia with a long appendix on the penis as in Achatinella and the Pupillidoe.
Jaw and radula about as in Pupillidoe.
This group has usually been included in the Achatinidoe or Stenogyridoe but the direct ureter removes it to a group of primitive snails represented only by minute species in America but by the beautiful Achatinellidce and Partulidoe in Polynesia.
Coecilianella Cecilioides I Manual of the Mollusca p. 286 edit.
2 1868. belongs to the same family and probably Glessvla also but the pallial organs of that Indian genus are unknown.
The group is not related to the Achatinidce.
Cochlicopa lubrica Mull..
Bear Park and Cave creek canyon Chiricahua mountains and Fort Bowie Ferriss  Carr canyon Huachuca mountains Dr. H. Skinner all in Cochise county Arizona.
Drift debris of Pecos river Pecos New Mexico Ckll..
ZONITIDiE.
Omphalina extends to the western border of the Austroriparian area in Texas.
The form taken by us will be discussed in the concluding paper on Southwestern mollusks.
Zonitoides minuscula Binn.i.
Texas San Marcos New Braunfels near Hondo Del Rio Devil's river and Pecos river.
Everywhere common in drift debris.
The specimens all show a tendency to be more widely umbilicate than typical Northern minuscula a large part of them being typical Z. m. alachuana Dall.
Those from San Marcos and Comal county are of the size of Northern minuscula but westward the shells reach a decidedly larger size with the exception of the lot taken at Devil's river which show but little tendency towards a wide umbilicus.
In Arizona Ferriss took specimens of var.
alachuana at Bear Park and Cave creek canyon Chiricahua mountains in the drift of San Pedro river at Benson and in the Huachucas.
Like other minutiae these shells are very rare in the Chiricahua and Huachuca mountains.
Helix mauriniana Orb. from Cuba which has been put in the synonymy of minuscula seems to be a Thysanophora close to or identical with T. saxicola Pfr.
 as Arango has already stated.
Z. minuscula occurs also in Japan.
Zonitoides minuscula neomexioana Pils and Ckll.
This form is distinguished by the possession of minute and shallow spiral striation.
It seems to be of somewhat common occurrence in New Mexico and upon examining a set of seven specimens taken by me in Galveston in 1885 I find that they are similarly sculptured.
They came from under boards in a lumber yard and it may be that they were brought from New Mexico with lumber though I do not know that any lumber was shipped from New Mexico twenty years ago.
Zonitoides singleyana Pils.
Zonites singleyanus Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1SS9 p. 84 1888 pi.
17 fig.
M. New Braunfels.
Hyalinia Iceviuscula Sterki Nautilus VI p. 53 Sept. 1892 New Braunfels.
Texas San Marcos New Braunfels Del Rio.
Devil's river and Pecos river above the High Bridge evern'here in river debris.
Arizona Drift of San Pedro river at Benson.
Zonitoides nummus Vanatta.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1899 p. 524 figs.
New Braunfels.
This species seems to be confined to the Texan Lower Sonoran.
We took it at San Marcos Hays county Guadalupe river above New Braunfels Hondo river Medina county and in Val Verde county near Del Rio along the Devil's river and in the Pecos canyon above the High Bridge everywhere in drift debris.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Texas Galveston Smith ville Bastrop county Sinking Spring near San Marcos Hays county near New Braunfels Comal county.
New Mexico Drift of Pecos river at Pecos Cockerell.
Arizona Cave creek canyon and Bear Park Chiricahua mountains Cochise county.
Vitrea indentata Say.
Drift of Pecos river Pecos New Mexico Ckll..
As usual it is the Canadian and Carolinian form of the species which extends down the Rocky mountains into New Mexico and not the Sonoran subspecies.
Vitrea indentata umbilicata 'Singl.' Ckll.
CkU. Nautilus XII p. 120 Feb. 1899.
Texas San Marcos Hays county around New Braunfels Comal county Hondo river two miles north of Hondo Medina county Del Rio Devil's river and Pecos river at the High Bridge Val Verde county Alpine Brewster county Arizona Cave creek canyon and Bear Park Chiricahua mountains Fort Bowie.
Also Florida mountains Grant county New Mexico.
Large specimens of this race are probably what has been reported from Texas as sculptilis Bid.  a species which does not we believe occmin that State.
This .Sonoran race differs from indentata by its distinctly perforate axis and larger average size yet the perforation varies so much in size in specimens from the Carolinian zone that I would not myself have named the Southwestern form.
The name is illchosen since the shells are not ' ' umbilicate ' ' as that term is technically used but ' ' perforate. '
' 1906.1 151 Vitrea hammouis Strom.
Drift of the Pecos river at Pecos New Mexico Cockerell.
The specimens scarely show a trace of spiral hues.
The species is unknown in the Austroriparian and Lower Sonoran zones.
Vitrea dalliana roemori n. subsp.
Fig.
8.
Shell openly umbilicate the width of umbilicus contained about 4f times in the diameter of the shell pale whitishcorneous in general shape resembling V. dalliana V. wheatleyi and V. petrophila.
Sculpture of very close and regular radial grooves on the last whorl of large specimens becoming crowded and less regular giving a striate appearance.
The flat intervals between the grooves show no spiral striae.
The base is nearly smooth.
Whorls 4 but slightly convex slowly widening the last about double the width of the preceding.
Suture scarcely impressed translucentmargined below.
Base convex.
Aperture lunate slightly oblique  the insertions of the peristome are distant.
Alt.
2 diam.
4 mm.
 umbilicus .85 mm.
 aperture 1.7 x 1.65 mm.
Fig.
8.
 'iirea tkdliana roemeri.
Sinking Spring creek near San Marcos Hays county Texas.
Types No.
91318 A. N. S.
Phila. collected by Pilsbry and Ferriss 1903.
Also taken in several places around New Braunfels Comal county in the drift debris of the Hondo river two miles north of Hondo Medina county in drift of the Rio San Filipe near Del Rio and of the Devil's river Val Verde county.
It has about the distribution of Holospira goldfussi and Helicodiscus eigenmanni.
This very pretty little species has a slightly more ample umbilicus than V. wheatleyi or petrophila and the sculpture is closer and more regular than in either.
The last whorl in dorsal view is wider than in V .
wheatleyi.
It is much smaller than V. hammonis.
V. dalliana roemeri attains a larger size than the Floridian V. dalliana and the shells have somewhat more regular and crowded grooves on 152 March the last whorl it is less depressed and the aperture is perceptibly less broad more roundly lunate.
The differences seem sufficient to call for subspecific separation.
The Texan and Floridian areas of distribution seem to be separated so far as our present data indicates.
V. daUiana should be looked for along the northern border of the Gulf.
It is known now from peninsular Florida only.
Vitrea dalliana  and roemeri are much smaller than V. hammonis and seem to replace that in the Austroriparian and Lower Sonoran zones.
Wlien originally described it was compared with Zonitoides arhorea Say but it is not really related to that but to the hammonis group.
In fact V. hammonis hinneyana and dalliana form a group of very closely related species.
In a large number of V. dalliana examined from several localities the largest shell measures alt.
1.6 diam.
3.2 width of umbihcus .75 aperture 1.4 mm.
wide 1.2 high.
This shell from Osprey Manatee county Fla. is here figured.
The figures do not represent the fine and beautiful sculpture of the surface.
Fig.
9. F. dalliana.
Vitrea milium meridionalis n. subsp.
Similar to V. milium but larger diam.
about 1.75 mm. with nearly 3 whorls the first one finely distinctly Urate spirally the last whorl with obhque wrinkles much coarser than in milium more or less anastomosing and fine spiral striae the latter distinct on the base.
V. milium with the same number of whorls is smaller and more finely wrinkled and in Maine and Ohio shells spirals on the first whorl are excessively weak or wanting not deeply engraved to the tip as in Texas shells.
Texas San Marcos in drift of Sinking creek in the limestone hills along the Guadalupe river above New Braunfels te locahty Hondo river Medina county  drift of Pecos river.
Pilsbry and Ferriss.
New Mexico Cloud croft Sacramento mountains Viereck Santa Fe Ashmun.
Arizona Huachuca mountains Ferriss Walnut Gulch near Jerome Ashmun Specimens from Baldwin and Clarke counties Ala. C. B. Moore  Zonites dallianus Simpson Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1889 p. 83 pi.
3 figs.
911. seem to be referable to this race.
In the Northwest another form of the species Z. milium pugetensis Dall replaces the typical milium.
Neither of the subspecies differs much from milium but what differentiation there is seems to be correlated with geographic range.
This species was erroneously placed in Zonitoides in the Classified Catalogue of 1898.
We are now convinced that it belongs as Morse demonstrated to the subgenus Striatura of Vitrea.
Vitrina alaskana lall.
V. pfeifferi Newc Proc.
Cal.
Acad. II p. 92 1861  not of Deshayes 1852.
Vitrina alaskana Dall Land and FreshWater Mollusca of Alaska and Adjoining Regions Harriman Alaska Exped. XIII p. 37.
Arizona Huachuca mountains Ferriss numerous rather small specimens the only ones we have seen from Arizona.
It seems to be a common species of the Canadian and Transition zones eastward specimens being before us from the following places in New Mexico  Chicorico canyon near Raton Cockerell Las Huastus canyon Sandia mountains near Albuquerque Miss Maud Ellis  near Las Vegas Miss Mary Cooper  White Oaks and Gilmore's Ranch Sierra Blanca Ashmun Fort Wingate Dr. E. Palmer James canyon Cloudcroft Sacramento mountains H. L. Viereck.
The tyipe locality of V. alaskana is Carson valley Nevada but it has a wide range from Alaska to the Mexican boundary and probably beyond southward occurring only at high elevations.
Euconulus fulvus Miill..
Drift of Pecos river Pecos New Mexico Cockerell.
Cave creek canyon Cochise county Arizona Ferriss.
Euoonulus chersinus trochulus Reinh..
Nautilus XII p. 116.
Texas Sinking Spring San Marcos Hays county New Braunfels and vicinity Comal county Hondo river north of Hondo Medina county Rio San Filipe near Del Rio and Devil's river Val Verde county ever3rwhere in drift debris.
BNDODONTID.
Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Pilsbry.
n. n. Helix striatella Anthony Boston Journ.
of Nat.
Hist. Ill p. 278 pi.
3 fig.
2' 1840.
Not Helix striatella Rang 1831.
This shell well known under the preoccupied name H. striatella Anth. has typically a rounded periphery and moderately developed oblique and sigmoid ribstrise 4 or 5 in the space of a mm.
on the front of the last whorl at the periphery.
There are 3 to 3f whorls.
Alt.
2.7 diam.
5.25 mm.
Type locality Fairmount Park Philadelphia near Strawberry Mansion No.
68899 A. N. S. P. collected by E. G. Vanatta.
In my opinion the widespread Eastern race is not specifically distinct from Helix cronkhitei Newc of northern California etc. of which specimens from Dr. Newcomb are before me but it evidently requires separation as a subspecies.
Arizona Chiricahua mountains Cochise county at Fort Bowie Bear Park and Cave creek canyon Ferriss Carr canyon Huachuca mountains H. Skinner.
New Mexico Drift of Pecos river at Pecos Ckll..
Texas  In 1885 I dug a single specimen of this species from the bank of Comal creek New Braunfels where it occurred with several other land and freshwater shells.
Singley reports it from the Pleistocene of Swisher county.
It is not known to occur living in Texas or anywhere in the Austroriparian zone.
Its occurrence in the Texan Pleistocene is anomalous like the presence of Pupilla blandi at New Braunfels.
RADIODISCUS Pilsbry n. gen.
Minute discoidal openly umbilicate Patuloid snails with the first 1 whorls minutely engraved spirally the rest of the shell densely radially costulate aperture lunate but slightly oblique and as high as wide.
Type R. millecostatus.
This genus is proposed for a group of tiny Pyramidulalike snails various members of which have been found in Arizona Mexico and South America as far south as Patagonia.
In the spiral sculpture of the embryonic whorls these shells are like Helicodiscus  in shape and size they resemble Planogyra but in that the embryonic shell is smooth.
There are also some similar Polynesian forms referred to Charopa etc.
In the Endodontidce where small differences in the shell characterize extensive series of species it seems desirable to recognize as of generic value such readily recognizaljle groups as Radiodiscus.
The species are chiefly distinguished by their dimensions and the degree of fineness of the sculpture.
There are several undescribed forms in the collection of the Academy.
Eadiodiscus millecostatus n. sp.
Fig.
10.
Shell very small diskshaped chestnutbrown the first whorl bluishwhite.
Whorls 3f  slowly widening separated by a very deep channelled suture.
The first whorl projects a little and is microscopically striate spirally the rest of the whorls are radially very densely costulate the riblets nearly straight delicate and much narrower than their intervals and about 21 in number in a millimeter measmed at the periphery in the front of the last whorl.
The last whorl is rounded throughout.
The umbilicus is widely open its width contained about three times in the diameter of the shell.
The aperture is slightly oblique and deeply lunate.
Alt.
1.1 diam.
2 mm.
 diam.
of umbilicus .6 to .7 nam.
Huachuca mountains Cochise county Arizona J. H. Ferriss  Carr canyon Dr. Henry Skinner.
Also in the State of Michoacan Mexico at Patzcuaro and Morelia S. N. Rhoads 1899.
Fig.
10.
This tiny Patuloid of a group new to our fauna is one of the most interesting recent finds.
It is related to R. hermanni Helix hermanni Pfr.
 of central and eastern Mexico but that species is larger and more coarsely sculptured.
Thfe two species occur together at the Mexican localities mentioned above but are readily separable.
Dr. Henry Skinner found one broken specimen of R. millecostatus in Carr canyon Huachucas.
Genus HELICODISCUS Morse.
This genus has hitherto been consitlered to include two species lineatus Say and fimbriatus Wetherby.
The accessions of Southwestern material show that several other forms must be recognized.
The species are not very conspicuously differentiated and young shells by themselves are not always readily placed  yet with adults we find no difficulty.
The salient characters of the forms follow a.
 Diam.
of shell 3 to 3.5 mm. whorls 4 to 4 teeth almost always present.
Eastern United States .
.
.
H. parallelus Say.
a.
 Diam.
of shell 4.5 to 5 mm. whorls 4 to 5 often deficient in teeth.
b.
 Spiral striae obsolete.
Idaho.
.
.
H. salmonensis Hemph..
b.
 Spiral strise well developed subequal last whorl not deflexed at aperture.
c.  Umbilicus very wide last whorl narrow aperture verysmall.
Arizona and New Mexico H. e. arizonensis n. subsp.
cUmbilicus smaller more cupshaped last whorl wider.
Texas H. eigenmanni Pils.
6.
 Spi'als coarse some of them more conspicuous with a cuticular fringe  last whorl in full adult shells abruptly deflexed in front.
East Tennessee North Georgia .
fimhriatus Weth.
Helioodisous parallelus Say.
PI.
VIII figs.
7.
8 9 10.
Helix lineata Say Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. I p. 18 1817  II p. 373.
Not Helix lineata Olivi Zool.
Adriatico p. 177 1792.
Planorbis araUeUuf Say Journ.
A. N. S.
Phila. II p. 164 1821 corrected to paraUellus in the Index p. 407.
Upper Missouri.
Helicodisciis lineatus Morse Journ.
Portland Soc I p. 25 figs.
61 62 pi.
2 fig.
3 pi.
7 fig.
63 1864.
Binney Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 75.
This common species has been well described by Binney and others.
It has ordinarily four whorls but there may be as many as 4J in exceptionally large shells.
At least one pair of tubercular teeth may be seen in most specimens.
Shells of maximum size measure Alt.
1.3 diam.
3.5 mm.
Grand Rapids Mich. Alt.
1.25 diam.
8 mm.
Philadelphia.
The typical form of H. 'parallelus is before me from localities in Ontario Maine Massachusetts Connecticut New York New Jersey Pennsylvania Maryland District of Columbia Virginia North Carolina Ohio Michigan Minnesota Indiana Iowa Kentucky Tennessee Alabama Florida Missouri Kansas Arkansas Indian Territory.
I have not seen Texan specimens of typical lineatus but it doubtless occurs in northern and eastern parts of the State.
In New Mexico at Pecos Las Vegas Mesilla Sandia mountains and other places and in the Pecos river canyon near its mouth Val Verde county Texas there is a form of H. parallelus with rather weak sparse spirals the intervals more distinctly striate radially than in typical parallelus.
This seems to be a form of the southeastern Rocky mountains and southward to the Rio Grande occupying territory between the ranges of H. eigenmanni and H. arizonensis with some overlapping on the territory of the latter.
Say's first name.
Helix lineata was preoccupied but his Planorbis parallelus applies to the same species.
In the text of the Journal the first letter of the name did not print up but the space in place of it shows that it had been there and the p is correctly supplied in the index.
The type used in that volume of the Journal was old and full of ''bad letters.
All authorities agree that such obvious typographical errors should be corrected.
Helicodiscus eigenmanni Pils.
PI.
VIII figs 1 2 3.
Nautilus XIV p. 41.
August 1900 Beaver cave near San Marcos Texas.
This fine species is easily recognized by its large size the shell in all stages of growth being very much more robust than H. parallelus.
It is sculptured with numerous spiral threads as in H. parallelus and when fresh is pale yellow.
Alt.
2 diam.
5 mm. with 5 whorls.
We took specimens in the drift debris of Sinking creek at San Marcos Hays county on the Guadalupe river above New Braunfels Comal county on the Hondo river Medina county and in the drift of Devil's river Val Verde county Alpine Brewster county.
I have seen specimens also from Calhoun county Hubbard Lee county Singley and Navidad river bottom Jackson county J. D. Mitchell.
It has not been reported from any place out of Texas and seems to have about the same distribution as Holospira goldfussi.
Helicodiscus eigenmanni arizonensis n. subsp.
PI.
VIII figs.
4 5 6.
Shell larger than H. parallelus with 4 to nearly 5 whorls the spire flat or convex the umbilicus wider than in parallelus or eigenmanni.
Surface closely and strongly lirulate spirally.
Aperture oblique lunate very small.
Alt.
2 diam.
5 nmi. whorls 5.
Fort Bowie.
Alt.
1.5 diam.
4.6 mm. whorls 4.
Cave creek canyon.
Arizona Fort Bowie type locality Bear Park and Cave creek canyon Chiricahua mountains Huachuca mountains Ferriss Santa Rita mountains Ashmun.
New Mexico Florida mountains Grant county Ferriss Bland Sandoval county Ashmun  debris of Arroyo Pecos at Las Vegas Ckll..
Readily distinguished from H. parallelus when mature by the greater size with wider umbilicus more whorls and proportionately smaller mouth.
Some specimens are twotoothed.
H. eigenmanni has a smaller umbilicus whorls of markedly greater calibre and a larger aperture.
Helicodiscus salmonensis Hemphill.
HeUcodiscu fimbriatus Wetherbv salmonacca Hemphill W. G. Binney Tliird Supplement to Terr.
MoU. V BuU.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. XIX No.
4 p. 189 May 1890.
Helicodiscus fimbriatus var.
salmonensis Hempliill in Binney t. c p. 220 May 1890.
Helicodiscus fimbriatus Wetherby var.
salmonaceus Hemphill Binney Fourth Supplement Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. XXII No.
4 p. 177 pi.
3 fig.
8.
Distinguished by the absence of spiral striae according to Hemphill.
I have not seen specimens.
Mr. Binney in his first note considers the Salmon river form identical with what Mr. Simpson reported as H. fimbriatus from Indian Territory and gives no separate or definite description of it though he mentions that Hemphill had given the MSS.
name salmonacea.
The figure of one of the original specimens given in Binney's Fourth Supplement represents a shell with wide umbilicus and small aperture like H. arizonensis from which it differs according to published information by the smoother surface arizonensis being constantly very well sculptured.
Punctum pygmaeum Drap..
San Marcos Hays county Comal county Hondo river Medina county Devil's river Val Verde county.
The form in this region is slightly larger than northeastern specimens and is more strongly sculptured.
There are barely four whorls the first H smooth the next striate the last two whorls have striae at regular intervals much larger with about six fine striae in each space and the basal spirals are very distinct.
This sculpture reminds one of the west coast forms conspectum pasadenoe and calif ornicum which however are decidedly larger and coarser shells of a dark brown color.
SUCOINEID.
Succinea luteola Gld.
Gould Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
N. H. Ill p. 37 June 1848 Texas Terr.
Moll. II p. 75 pi.
67c fig.
1.
Florida Texas especially Galveston.
Binney Terr.
Moll. V p. 419 Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 441.
Succinea texasiana Pfr. Monogr. II 526 Roemer's Texas p. 456 1849 Galveston.
Succinea lutescens Sowerbv Conchologia Iconica XVIII pi.
10 fig.
67 a b 1872 Texas.
We took specimens in Texas along the Guadalupe river above New Braunfels Comal county San Antonio Bexar county near Hondo river about two miles north of Hondo Medina county and in Val Verde county at Del Rio high land west of Devil's river and in the canyon of the Pecos near the High Bridge.
In Gould's original description the only locality given was Texas.
In the Terrestrial Mollusks he states found in Florida and more abundantly in Texas especially in the region of Galveston.
Specimens collected at Galveston by the author in 1885 agree perfectly with Gould's figures and that place may be taken to be the type locality.
I have seen no Florida shells which I would refer with certainty to luteola though S. floridana is closely related.
Succinea concordialis GldFigs.
11 12.
Gould in Terr.
Moll.
U. S. II p. 82 Lake Concordia.
Binney Terr.
MoU.
U. S. V p. 419 Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 44L Succinea forsheyi Lea Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1864 p. 109 Obs.
Gen. Unio XI 134 Rutersville Texas.
Succinea Imleana Lea Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1864 p. 109 Alexandria La..
Succinea halei Lea Obs. XI 136 n. n. for S. '  Distribution Gulf States from Florida to the Rio Grande on mud or herbage near the water's edge.
Common from Louisiana westward probably rare and local eastward.
The type locality Lake Concordia is not in Texas as Gould and Binney supposed but in Louisiana.
The lake is an abandoned oxbow of the Mississippi river opposite Naches Mississippi.
Some of Lea's original lot of S. halei haleana before me show that to be merely the young of concordialis.
S. forsheyi Lea of which two cotypes are in the Philadelphia collection is surely identical with concordialis.
An adequate knowledge of the distribution of S. concordialis eastward awaits further exploration of the Gulf coastal peneplain which in Mississippi Alabama Georgia and Florida has been very imperfectly examined for land molliLsks.
I have not seen S. wilsoni Lea described from Darien Ga. the figure of which looks a good deal like concordialis though it seems to be less swollen basally.
Specimens collected by Mr. A.
A. Hinkley at Cypress creek Ala. in 1895 are evidently concordialis  and a set of very pale shells corneous instead of ambercolored before me from Mayport Florida collected by iL A. Mitchell about twenty years ago seems to agree with concordialis in everything but color.
Northward it extends to Frierson L. S. Frierson and Bayou Pierre George Williamson in northwestern Louisiana the specimens from these places being rather small.
.The species must also extend in a long lobe up the Mississippi and its tributaries for typical specimens have lately been sent by Mr. A.
A. Hinkley from Dubois Illinois and by Mr. T. Van Hyning from Des Moines Iowa.
Mr Van Hyning notes that ' ' the animal is black with small yellow dots. '
' These Northern shells may be distinguished from S.
retusa by their potbellied figure and reddish apex.
In Texas specimens were taken by us in April at San Marcos Hays county New Braunfels Comal county San Antonio Bexar county along the Rio Grande near and San Filipe river at Del Rio.
and along the Devil's river Val Verde county.
We have seen it also from Lee county Singley and Spring creek Victoria county J. D. Mitchell.
It lives on the moist earth immediately adjacent to the water's edge and where found is usually abundant.
It is a thin shell rather 160 March deeply ambercolored with the apical whorls darker reddishorange.
Whorls 3 the last deeply descending somewhat flattened above very convex basally having thus a more sacklike contour than S. retusa this being its chief peculiarity.
The sculpture consists of rather coarse wrinkles and often some indistinct spiral impressions on the last whorl.
The aperture is symmetrically ovate the columella concave throughout with a delicate fold above.
Large specimens from San Marcos measure Length 16.8 diam.
9 length of aperture 11.5 width 6.7 mm.
Length 16 diam.
8 length of aperture 10.5 width 6 mm.
The mantle is intensely black dappled throughout in the last whorl with rounded yellowish spots.
Those above the kidney are brighter more conspicuous and usually larger often more or less confluent.
Fig.
11.
Fig.
12.
Towards the edge of the mantle the spots are large and lengthened.
The foot including head and eyestalks is pale grayishwhite speckled with irregular grayishblack spots.
The sole is pale yellow.
Figs.
11 and 12 were drawn from specimens taken at San Marcos Texas near the river.
SpecimeiLS from the Rio Grande and Devil's river are of almost as large size but in some situations it is much smaller a set from along the San FiUpe river at Del Rio measuring length 12 diam.
6.7 length of aperture 8 mm.
Those taken at San Antonio and New Braunfels are also of small size.
Such variation in size is apparently not racial but dependent upon local conditions of the food supply etc.
The color and markings of the mantle are substantially the same in all colonies we found though there is individual variation in the size of the light spots figure 12 representing one of the darker individuals.
Succinea grosvenori Lea.
Proc.
A. X. S.
Phila. 1864 p. 109 Santa Rita Valley Kansas and Alexandria Louisiana  Obs.
Gen. Unio etc. XI p. 13.5 pi.
24 fig.
108.
S. mooresiana Lea Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1864 p. 109 Court House Rock Platte river on the California route  Obs. XI p. 136. pi.
24 fig.
109.
S. Hneata W. G. Binnev Proc.
A. X. S.
Phila. 1857 p. 19 Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 174.
This species is characterized by its very full rounded whorls and irregular sculpture often with traces of spiral lines though as frequently without them.
Having part of the original specimens of the above synonyms before us we are convinced that the three supposed species cannot be separated although one would hardly expect the same form to range from the lower Mississippi to and throughout the arid great plains and the mountain region of Colorado and New Mexico.
Succinea greerii Tryon described from Vicksburg Mississippi is a little less swollen with the suture not quite so deep but it is doubtful whether the slight differences shown by the lot of eight specimens will prove constant.
The species belongs to the campestris group.
We took a few specimens of S. grosvenori at San Antonio Texas with S. concordialis and a large form of S. avara.
Succinea avara Say.
Texas an Marcos Hays county Comal county San Antonio Bexar county Devil's river Val 'erde county.
Arizona Benson Cochise county.
AURICULID.
Caryohium exile H. C. Lea.
San Marcos Hays county New Braunfels Comal county Hondo river Medina county and Devil's river Val Verde county Texas.
Common in drift debris.
Carychiuin exiguum Say.
Drift of Hondo river Medina county of Devil's river Val Verde county and of Guadalupe river Comal county Texas.
LYMNIDJE.
Lymnaea columella Say.
New Braunfels Comal county Texas.
A single slender specimen.
Lymnaea desidiosa Say.
Texas San Marcos Hays county New Braunfels Comal county San Antonio Bexar county  Rio San Filipe Val Verde county.
Lymnaea humilis Say.
Guadalupe river Comal county.
Texas.
11 i 162 March Lymnaea bulimoides cockerelli n. subsp.
Figs.
1317.
Shell subglobose pale yellowishcorneous composed of 4 convex whorls which are finely striate but without spiral lines or malleation.
Spire very short last whorl and aperture very large.
Aperture shortovate its length threefifths to twothirds that of the shell.
Columella broadly expanded not folded.
Umbilicus large.
Fig.
13.
Fig.
14 Fig.
16.
Fig.
17.
Las Vegas N M. Arroyo Pecos.
Ogalalla Neb.
Alt.
10 8.3 8 8.7 8.5 12 8 9 mm Diam.
7.2 6 6.2 6 6 7.8 6 6.6  Aperture 6.7 5.3 6 5.7 5 7.5 5.8 6.1  New Mexico Las Vegas type locality.
Miss Mary Cooper and in the charcoal zone of the Pleistocene of Arroyo Pecos T. D. A. Cockerell  near Farmington George H. Pepper  Acama Dr. E. Palmer.
Colorado  Pool southeast of Denver J. D. Putnam.
Nebraska Ogalalla C. T. Simpson.
Dakota Lake Hermann P. C. Truman.
Fig.
18.
Fig.
19.
This form differs from L. bulimoides and L. techeUa by its more glohose shape and shorter spire and so far as we have seen is readily separable from both.
Figs.
1315 represent the types from Las Vegas  16 17 are larger shells from Farmington sent by Mr. George H. Clapp.
L. hiilimoides sonomaensis Hemphill  from Sonoma county California  approaches cockerelli but differs by the more rapidly expanding last 1906.
163 whorl narrower flat columella and narrower umbilicus which is like that of typical bulimoides.
A specimen measures alt.
10 diam.
7.7 aperture 7.2 mm.
figs.
18 19.
Lymnaea bulimoides techella Hald..
Figs.
2023.
Limncea techella Hald. Amer.
Journ.
of Conch. Ill p. 194 pi.
6 fig.
4.
Texas.
Shell obese with acutely conic spire of five or six convex whorls pale yellowish or light brown finely striate and usuxilly malleated the flattened facets obliquely descending.
Last whorl very ventricose umbilicus large.
Aperture shortovate about threefifths the total length basal lip expanded colimiellar lip broadly dilated without a fold.
Umbilicus large.
Fig.
23.
San Marcos Texas.
Tempe Ariz. 8.5 11.8 13 14 12.7 12.5 mm.
5.1 7.3 7.6 9 7.8 7 5.1 7.3 13.7 8.8 7 6.8  Cotype.
Length 8 Diam.
5.1 Aperture 4.9 In the area under consideration we have seen specimens from the following places Texas Fort Worth Sampson Royse Rockwall county Ragsdale Dallas E. Hall Houston Pilsbry San Marcos Hays county Pilsbry and Ferriss mouth of Nueces river Singley.
New Mexico Albuquerque and McCarty Valencia county Ashmun  Rio Grande at Mesilla Cockerell.
Arizona Salt river at Tempe Ashmun.
Other records could probably be supplied from the literature but it seems usually to have been referred to as L. bulimoides.
Figs.
2022 represent specimens from San Marcos Hays county Texas fig.
23 is ajnore malleate shell from Salt river Tempe Arizona.
The young of one season have a comparatively shorter spire than old shells the rate of descent of the suture progressively increasing somewhat.
As usual there are only traces of malleation at this stage.
The erosion of the apices in all but one of the type lot as mentioned by Haldeman makes them shorter than they would otherwise be giving much the appearance of L. h. cockerelli.
Abundant series from Houston and San Marcos collected by Pilsbry with others from various naturalists demonstrate the identity of Haldeman's shells with the largerspired adult form figured above.
L. tecJiella was formerly considered by one of us to be a synonym or race of L. cubensis Pfr. and L. hulimoides was treated as a variety of the same species.
They are certainly very similar but cubensis has a more triangular and less broadly developed columellar expansion and in view of the way Lymnoea is being split up into species and races it may be best to retain the several forms as distinct species or races until the subject can be taken up with ample material and time for the study of Antillean and Mexican forms together with our own.
Planorbis trivolvis Say.
Specimens referable to typical P. trivolvis were taken in Comal county and at Del Rio Devil's river and the Pecos river Val Verde county Texas.
Planorbis bicarinatus Say.
Guadalupe river Comal county Texas abundant and typical.
Planorbis cams n. sp.
PI.
IX figs.
4 5.
Shell discoidal biconcave the spiral on the left side slightly more sunken and narrower than on the right.
Whorls 3 convex the last round peripherally and on both sides curving more abruptly into the concavity on the left side.
Sculpture of close very regular obliquely radial rounded striije separated by slightly narrower deep grooves.
Pale brown in color.
Aperture but slightly oblique heartshaped peristome thin acute a trifle dilated at its insertions.
Diam.
3.3 alt.
thickness 1 mm.
Sinking Spring near San Marcos Hays county Texas Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfels Comal county.
Rio San Filipe and Devil's river and canyon of the Pecos river about a mile above the High Bridge Val Verde county everywhere in drift debris.
Types from the last locality.
This little Planorbis is very distinct by its beautiful sculpture constant in numerous specimens from five rivers in central and western Texas.
It is much more abundant in the Rio Grande drainage than in Hays and Comal counties.
It is about the size of P. parvus but the aperture is less oblique and the sculpture differs.
It was found with parvus in Comal county and in the Pecos canyon.
Planorbis filocinctus n. sp.
PI.
IX figs l 2 3.
Shell very small biconcave the spiral narrower and more deeply sunken on the left than on the right side.
Whorls about 2f  the last broadly rounded peripherally rounded also on both sides but less convex on the right than on the left side.
Sculpture of inconspicuous growthlines and numerous threadlike spiral striae.
Color of bleached specimens white or faintly yellowish.
Aperture oblique heartshaped about as long as wide excised moderately by the preceding whorl.
Greatest diam.
of the disk 2.4 alt.
thickness nearly 1 mm.
San Pedro river Benson Arizona in drift debris.
Types collected by J. H. Ferriss 1904.
This little species may be at once recognized by its spiral striation which is far stronger than in any other North American species.
It is flattened less than P. parvus.
Only five specimens were taken but it is so unlike other known Mexican or United States Planorbes that there seems no doubt of its specific distinctness.
Planorbis parvus Say.
Guadalupe river alout four miles above New Braunfels Comal county Devil's river Val Verde county Texas.
San Pedro river Benson Arizona.
Planorbis cultratus Orb.
Pilsbry Nautilus III p. 63 pi.
1 figs.
1 2 3.
This species is thin and delicate very acutely carinate at the periphery which is close to the left side.
In 1889 one of us reported it from Hidalgo Texas where it was taken by Mr. Singley.
In 1903 we took a single young shell in the drift debris of Devil's river Val Verde county.
The young have a much less acute keel in fact are angular rather than carinate and they are less compressed in proportion.
P. cultratus is found also in Florida collected at Miami by S. N. Rhoads Central America and the West Indies.
Few of the specimens thus far known from Texas are fully mature or in good condition.
Planorbis liebmanni Dkr.
Canal at New Orleans Louisiana H. Hemphill .
In Texas at Waco Hemphill Austin E. Hall San Marcos New Braunfels Hondo river Del Rio Devil's river and Pecos river Ferriss and Pilsbry also in the southeastern part of the state in Victoria county J. D. Mitchell and near Brownsville Cameron county Clapp.
Also in lexico.
Wellgrown specimens have a diameter of 9 to 10 mm. with about 5 whorls.
Segmentina obstructa Morel.
Except for the teeth this species is not distinguishable from Planorbis liebmanni Dkr.
It does not however attain quite so large a size the largest we have seen measuring slightly less than 9 mm.
diameter.
The teeth are found in very young shells also  but never more than one set is present at any stage of growth so far as seen.
Specimens are before us from the following places all in Texas  Austin E. Hall San Marcos Hays county New Braunfels Comal county Hondo river north of Hondo Medina county Pilsbry and Ferriss  Brownsville Cameron county sent by G. H. Clapp  Hidalgo Hidalgo county Singley  Rio San Filipe Devil's river and Pecos river Val Verde county Ferriss and Pilsbry.
It has also a wide range in Mexico.
The genus Segmentina was based upon the European species S. nitida Miill.
This is a very glossy flattened shell with acutely angular periphery simple thin lip deeply embracing whorls and barriers composed of three laminae parietal basal and upper transverse to the whorl leaving a narrow threebranched space between them.
In eastern Asia a modification of this type is found in such species as S. largillierti Phil.
 forming the subgenus Polypylis Pils.
The shell is less compressed and not carinate but glossy with deeply clasping whorls.
The parietal lamina is obliquely transverse the others transverse basal long a shorter one in the outer wall and one or two in the upper margin.
There are several or many barriers.
The American forms subgenus Planorbula Hald. have less smooth and much less compressed shells the whorls only slightly clasping often angular or subangular on the right side but rounded peripherally.
There are six laminae a sigmoid obliquely entering parietal with a small tubercular denticle near its lower or left end  a transverse basal  an obliquely entering outer lamina with a transverse one above it and a small entering lamina in the upper margin.
In S. armigera the entering lamella in the outer margin curves upward slightly at its inner end.
In S. wheatleyi all of the laminae are much more strongly developed and the entering outer one is much longer running up in a long curve behind the transverse lamina above it.
The structures are however fundamentally identical in the two species.
In the Antillean and Mexican group to which S. obstructa belongs 1906.
167 the whorls are rounded the parietal laminse are as in Planorbula except that the larger one stands more obliquely the basal lamina i transverse but all the rest on the outer wall are entering plicce the larger lower one curving downward a little at its inner end not upward as in armigera and wheatleyi.
As in all American forms of the genus only one set of laminae seems to be present in any individual though the earliest set is formed at a very early age.
In the European and Asiatic species several sets are usuall' present.
PLEUROCERATID.
Goniobasis comalensis Pilsbry.
Figs.
2428.
Melania rufa Lea Romer Texas p. 457 In den Quellen des ComalSpring bei New IBraunfels sehr haufig.
Melania pleuristriata Say A. G. Weatherby Wetherby American Naturalist April 1878 p. 254 with var.
marmocki springs of southwestern Texas
Goniobasis comalensis Pils. Nautilus IV p. 49 Sept. 1890 Comal creek New Braunfels.
G. 'pleuristriata Say and G. cornalensis Pils. Single Contrib.
Nat.
Hist.
Texas Geol.
Surv.
Tex.
Ann.
Rep. 1892 pp.
311 312.
Shell conicturrite thin but strong covered with an olivebrown cuticle.
Whorls of the spire with a distinct keel which projects a short distance above the suture and is usually wanting on the last two Fig.
24.
Fig.
25 Fig.
27.
Fig.
28. whorls the whole surface showing fine sigmoid growthstriae and in the best specimens very faint minute spiral striae.
Aperture ovate the outer lip thin sigmoid retracted below the upper insertion  basal lip rounded or subangular.
Columella arcuate somewhat thickened.
Wliorls about 7 in the most perfect shells but usually fewer the upper ones being eroded.
Length 18 diam.
7.3 aperture 7.3 mm.
Comal creek at New Braunfels Comal county Texas.
Also in the Guadalupe river 6 to 4 miles to the north San Marcos river at San Marcos Hays county on the dam above the fish hatchery Pilsbry and Ferriss Singley a variety from Bexar county A. G. Wetherby.
This form differs from Melania pluristriata Say M. rubida Lea of central Mexico by its far smaller size and less ample aperture.
The type of pluristriata measured 1.25x.oo inches of rubida 1.30x.57 inches and the specimens from Lake Chapala examined by Dr. von Martens from 26 x 12 to 35 x 13 mm. while no Texan shell we have seen in many hundreds examined reaches 1 inch long.
Von Martens refers the Mexican species to Pachycheilus.
Dr. William H. Dall to whom we submitted specimens of G. comalensis for comparison with the type of M. rubida Lea writes that though the general form is the same the rubida is very much larger and perfectly distinct.
The examples figured are from Comal creek.
New Braunfels near the mill.
The ascertained distribution of G. comalensis comprises only the short rivers of a single small system emptying into Espirito Santo Bay intercalated between the Colorado and Nueces basins and comprising the Guadalupe and San Antonio rivers and their tributaries.
The Goniobases are known from these streams only at the edge of the Edwards Plateau.
As they live on rocks etc. in swift water it is not likely that they approach much nearer to the Gulf.
In the Fig.
29.
Fig.
30.
Fig.
31.
Colorado river where Pilsbry collected in 1885 nothing was seen of the species nor has it been reported from the Nueces or its branches.
We saw no sign of Goniobasis in the tributaries of the Rio Grande where our collecting was extensive enough to have found it if it existed.' The operculum fig.
29 consists of about four whorls the nucleus being situated at about the lower third of its length.
It is closely  In the collection of the Academy there are several specimens labelled ' ' Dallas county received from Mr. J.
A. Single This is in the Trinity river drainage but Singley in his catalogue of 1893 issued long after these specimens were placed in thejcollection expressly states that he found the species nowhere but in Comal and Hays counties.
There was probably some error in labelling thespecimens.
marked with growthwrinkles and shows some striae at right angles to them.
The radula fig.
30 is normal for Goniobasis.
The central tooth has 4 1 4 denticles the inner lateral 2 1 4 inner uncinus 7 outer about 20 denticles.
An inner uncinus in profile is drawn on the extreme right side fig.
31 to show the length of the denticles which are foreshortened in fig.
30.
G. comalensis is dimorphic like G. virginica and many other species.
At New Braunfels the smooth form described as typical predominates but there are also some individuals with numerous acute spiral ridges about fifteen on the last whorl but often fewer by suppression of those just below the periphery.
At San Marcos only the smooth phase was found in several hundred specimens taken.
A series of 12 labelled Bexar county received from A. G. Wetherby consists wholly of multistriate shells which moreover although collected alive are of a whitish or livid whitish tint in this respect approaching the Mexican pluristriatus.
The largest of this lot is 23.5 mm.
long 9.3 wide exceeding in size any seen from Comal or Hays counties.
These are part of the lot collected by Mr. G. W. Marmock of Bexar coimty and commented on by Wetherby in the American Naturalist for 1878.
The variety marmocki mentioned by him but without a word of definition may have been the smooth form of the species but there is nothing to indicate this either in Wetherby's note or the set of shells he sent to Tryon. P'orm fontinalis nov. Figs.
3235.
In a small spring in the pleasure garden near New Braunfels one of the fountains of Comal creek we found only very small shells the largest 7 to 8.3 mm.
long 4.3 to 4.7 mm.
wide and of a markedly short conic shape.
The old ones are much eroded and none are of the multistriate phase.
This race inhabits only the springs and the rapid streams from them for a short distance down.
In another much larger spring and the stream from it for about fifty yards down the shells are also dwarfs though somewhat larger than those from the smaller spring.
These springs flow out of the limestone rock the water being beautifully clear.
It is not cold being perceptibly warmer than the river at the time of our visit about the middle of April.
There is very little vegetation upon the rocks and the small size of the snails may be due  Mr. Wetherby also mentions that Helix photus Pfr.
was collected by Mr. Marmock.
This name may be an error for H. tholus W. G. B.
170 Mavch  Fig.
32.
Fig 33.
Fig.
34.
Fig.
3' to insufficient food supply.
Individuals are however very numerous.
Associated with them are numerous Physas also of pygmy proportions though evidently adult.
The snails of these springs evidently constitute physiologic rather than morphologic varieties.
AMNICOLID Paludestrina seemanni Ffld..
New Mexico South Spring creek near Roswell in a Pleistocene deposit Cockerell and Tinsley 1899.
Texas Drift debris of Pecos river about a mile above the High Bridge Val Verde county Pilsbry and Ferriss 1903.
Dr. R. E. C. Stearns has recorded this species from Death valley Inyo county California.
The specimens some of which are before me are somewhat more robust than those from New Mexico and Texas.
The above records largely increase the eastward range of the species.
Paludestrina diaboli n. sp.
Fig.
36.
Shell very slender turrite shaped about like P. seemanni composed of 4 very convex whorls separated by a deep suture.
Surface smooth.
Aperture vertical oval a trifle narrower above than below but not angular there.
Peristome continuous barely in contact with the preceding whorl for a short distance near the upper end.
Umbilicus small but distinct.
Length 1.3 diam.
.62 mm.
Drift debris of the Devil's river about four miles from its mouth Val Verde county Texas.
A single shell was also found on the Rio San Filipe near Del Rio in the same county.
The shells were all taken dead and bleached.
It is readily separable from P. seemanni by its diminutive size.
This is the smallest species of its familv known from North America.
Fig.
36.
Amnicola comalensis n. sp.
Fig.
37.
Shell distinctly perforate ovate thin corneous faintly marked with growth lines.
Spire regularly conic the apex obtuse.
Whorls 4 regularly convex not shouldered the suture well impressed.
Aperture ovate subangular above the peristome adnate for a short distance above the perforation.
Length 3.9 diam.
2 length of aperture 1.3 mm.
Comal creek near New Braunfels Comal county Texas.
Also from the Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfels.
This species is much smaller than A. limosa Fig.
37. decisa or other forms resembling it in color and shape.
A. cincinnatiensis Anth.
and the very closely related A. peracuta P. and W. both have more shouldered whorls and are much larger than A. comalensis.
CocMiopa riograndensis n. sp.
PI.
IX figs.
10 11 12 13.
Shell of the usual depressedturbinate shape openly umbilicate of a slightly olivaceous corneous tint.
Surface faintly marked with growthlines and sculptured with unequal spiral threads a few of the larger ones dark colored.
One thread at the shoulder is usually the most prominent.
In some shells the spirals are very weak hardly perceptible.
Whorls 3 moderately convex flattened and sloping below the suture elsewhere rounded.
Aperture quite oblique rotundly ovate the peristome thin equably arched except near the outer and columellar insertions where it is noticeably straightened.
The ends are connected across the parietal wall by a thin or thick callus.
The columella is not noticeably thickened.
Alt.
2 diam.
2.8 mm.
Alt.
1.65 diam.
2.65 mm.
Found in drift debris of Rio San Filipe near the Rio Grande Val Verde county Texas thirtysix specimens.
Pilsbry and Ferriss 1903.
Types 91324 A. N. S. Phila.
A single shell was also picked out of similar debris on the Devil's river about four miles from the Rio Grande in the same county.
This discovery of this form adds a new genus to the fauna of the United States and greatly extends the distribution of the group the other species being Central American.
 The shell has much the appearance of Valvata but is readily distinguished from that by its ovate not circular aperture which is more or less conspicuously angular above and by having the whorls more compactly coiled.
It should however be said that we could not verify the generic reference of C. riograndensis by examination of the operculum or radula as unfortunately none of the shells we obtained were living though some were fresh in appearance and the operculum was not found.
It consists of few whorls in Cochliopa as in Amnicola while that of Valvata is manywhorled with central nucleus.
C. riograndensis is not closely related to any of the known species being of lighter texture much more openly umbilicate and with somewhat different sculpture.
VALVATID.
Valvata micra n. sp.
PI.
IX figs.
7 8 9.
Shell excessively small composed of 2 tubular whorls  spire nearly flat the last whorl is nearly round barely or not quite in contact with the preceding at the aperture near which it enlarges more rapidly.
Suture deep.
Surface finely weakly striate.
Aperture moderately oblique subcircular the peristome simple continuous.
Umbilicus ample but rapidly narrowing within.
Alt.
.48 diam.
1.15 to 1.2 mm.
Drift debris of Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfels collected by Pilsbry and Ferriss 1903.
This is one of the smallest mollusks known yet the dilation of the  Prof von Martens defines four species of Cochliopa in the Biologia Centrali Americana  guatemalensis Morel. tryoniana Pils. trochulus and infundibulum Marts pp.
428 429.
He omits C. roivelli Tryon which was originally described from Clear Lake California.
Rev.
J. Rowell who found the original specimens now states m litt.
that  Cochlicopa Rowellii was named from shells collected by me near Baulinas Bay not Clear Lake Marin county California.
There are authentic specimens from Central America in the collection of the Academy so that I still doubt whether the species really was actually collected in California.
Prof von Martens surmises that C. guatemalensis Morel.
 which he had not seen may not be different specifically from C. tryoniana  but it is in fact not even closely related to that species being very much smaller more depressed and evenly sculptured with threadlike spirals.
The suture descends shortly in front in fully mature shells.
An additional locality is Polvon in western Nicaragua McNiel in coll.
A. N. S.
Phila..
I have examined the radula of C. guatemalensis which proves to be Amnicoloid and demonstrates the species to be a Cochliopa not a Valvata as Morelet supposed.
The central tooth has the formula  tjie inner lateral has 6 denticles the third from the inside being largest and its body has the usual boss or projection below.
The inner uncinus has 13 the outer very many excessi'ely minute denticles.
whorl at the aperture shows it to be adult.
Five specimens were taken.
The shells are all more or less bleached the freshest being of a pale corneous tint.
The round whorls deep suture and general appearance are quite unlike any Planorbis or Vallonia and indicate we think either that it is a Valvata or an Amnicoloid snail comparable to Horatia Bgt.
or Daudehardiella Bttg.
in the Paltearctic fauna.
Until fresh specimens with the soft parts or operculum are found the position of this molluscan atom will remain uncertain.
Valvata micra nugax pi.
IX fig.
6 a slightly larger form alt.
.9 diam.
1.5 mm. with three whorls and a projecting spire may prove to be a distinct species but for the present until more specimens are found it may be placed under T.
micra as a variety or form.
CYRENIDu.
Pisidium singleyi Sterki.
Nautilus XI 1S9S p. 112 type loc.
Guadalupe river Comal county Texas.
Drift debris of Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfcls and of Devil's river 'al Verde county Texas.
A closely related form was found near Del Rio.
Pisidium compressum Prime.
New Braunfels Comal county Texas.
Mr. J.
A. Singley found P. trapezoideum Sterki at the same place coll.
A. N. S. Phila.
No.
60127.
Pisidium abditum huachucanum n. subsp.
The shell is quite inflated dark brownisholive irregularly striate and marked with several conspicuous dark growtharrest streaks very inequilateral the beaks low and near the anterior end.
Anterior end abruptly truncate posterior end produced and rounded.
Hinge rather narrow the lateral teeth in the right valve single short and high triangular  in the left double.
Length 5.
1  alt.
4.3 diam.
3.4 mm.
Stream in Carr canyon Reef Cochise county Arizona collected by C. R. Biedermann February 8 1904.
Specimens were submitted to Dr. V. Sterki who could not identify the form with any known species.
About half of the shells are more compressed than those described as typical one measuring length 4.1 alt.
3.4 diam.
2 mm.
The very inequilateral anteriorly truncate outline and low beaks are characteristic of both the obese and compressed forms.
Eupera singleyi Pils..
Sphoerium Limosina dngleyi Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1889 p. 88 pi.
3 figs.
14 1.5 May 14 1889.
iCyclas macvJata Morelet 1859 not of Anton 1839 Sphoerium yacatanense Fischer and Crosse Miss.
Sci.
Mex. Moll. II p. 653 1894.
This species is now known to us by specimens from the following places all in Texas White Oak bayou Houston Singley Cedar creek Hudson county G. C. Heron type locality  Lavaca river Jackson county J. D. Mitchell  New Braunfels Comal county Singley Ferriss and Pilsbry  Guadalupe river about four miles above New Braunfels Singley Ferriss and Pilsbry  Devil's river Val Verde county Ferriss and Pilsbry.
It is a prettily maculate little clam widely distributed in Texan waters.
The largest shell I have seen measures 6 mm.
long.
It may prove to be specifically identical with E. maculata Morelet.
of Yucatan but that name is preoccupied by Anton for another species of the same group.
Both were described as Cyclas and belong to Eupera.
For this reason Crosse and Fischer proposed to substitute the name yiicatanense but five years previously I had described and figured S. singley i.
The latter name will therefore stand.
UNIONID.
A list of species taken by us in Arkansas Indian Territory and Texas will be published elsewhere.
As our work in these States was done in the early spring we found most of the streams too high for effective collecting of bivalves.
Explanation of Plates VIX.
Plate V.  Figs.
1 2 3.
 Polygyra mooreana thohis W. G.
B..
Washington county Texas.
No.
251 A. N. S. Pliila.
Figs.
4 5 6 7.
 Polygyra mooreana W. G.
B..
Guadalupe river Comal county Texas.
No.
91364.
Figs.
8 9 10.
 Hondo river near Hondo Texas.
No.
91.361.
Figs.
11 12.
 Polygyra texasiana texensis Pils.
Tvpes.
Colorado City Texas.
No.
83258.
Figs.
13 14 15.
 Polygyra texasiana hyperolia Pils.
and Ferr.
West of Devil's river Texas.
No.
91363.
Figs.
16 17 20.
 Polygyra texasiana Moric.
Typical.
Guadalupe river Comal county Texas No.
91362.
Figs.
18 19.
 Polygyra texasiana Moric.
Race with striate base Calhoun county Texas.
No.
229 A. N. S. Phila.
Plate VI.
 Fig.
1.
 Bulimidus dealbatus mooreanus W. G.
B..
San Antonio Texas.
No.
84626.
Figs.
2 3 4.
 B. d. mooreanus.
Guadalupe river above New Braunfels.
No.
84628.
Figs.
5 6.
 B. d. mooreanus.
Victoria Texas.
No.
76210.
Figs.
7 8.
 B. d. Uquabilis Rve..
San Marcos Texas.
Nos.
91396 and 91397.
Figs.
9 10 11.
 B. d. Uquabilis.
Jackson county Texas.
No.
76286.
Fig.
12.
 B. d. Uquabilis.
Lee county Texas.
No.
58379 Fig IS. Bulimulus dealbatus Say.
Type.
No 58381 A. N. S. Phila.
Alabama.
Fig.
14.
 BulimuluH d. ozarkensis Pils.
and Ferr.
Seligman Missouri.
Xo.
83132 Fig.
15.
 B. d. ozarkensis Pils.
and Ferr.
Rogers Arkansas.
Xo.
91358.
Figs.
16 17.
 Bulimulus d. ragsdalei Pils.
Types.
Montague county Texas.
Xo.
58380.
Figs.
18 19 20 21 22. B. d. ragsdalei.
Southwestern herd.
West of Devil's river Val Verde county Texas.
Xos.
91356 and 84638.
Figs.
23 24.
 B. d. ragsdalei Southwestern herd.
Del Rio Texas.
Xos.
87486 and 91355.
Fig.
25.
 Bulimulus d. pasonis Pils.
Tvpe.
Xear El Paso Texas.
Xo.
83259.
Figs.
26 27.
 Bulimulus d. pecosensis Pils.
and Ferr.
Xear tlie Pecos river.
Xos.
91359 and 84618.
Plate VII.
 Varieties of Bulimulus alternatus marioe Alb..
Figs.
17. Xear the High Bridge of the Pecos.
Xo.
84627 A. X. S. Phila.
Figs.
4 and 5 represent young shells.
Fig.
8.
 Xear the Rio Grande east of the Pecos river.
Xo.
84625.
Figs 9 10 11. Xear Rio San Filipe below Del Rio.
Xo.
84635.
Fig.
12.
 Xear Rio San Filipe below Del Rio.
An albino taken alive.
Figs.
13 14 15 16. Corpus Christi Texas.
Xo.
60136.
Figs.
17 18 19. Hidalgo Texas.
Xo.
60094.
Figs.
2024. Derby Frio countv Texas.
Xo.
60501.
Figs.
2.530. Laredo Webb county Texas.
Xo.
60502.
Plate VIII.
 Figs.
1 2 3.
 Helicodiscus eigenmanni Pils.
San Marcos Texas.
Xo.
91320.
Figs.
4 6.
 H. e. arizonensis Pils.
and Ferr.
Fort Bowie Cochise county Arizona.
Xo.
87077 A. X. S. Phila.
Fig.
5.
 H. e. arizonensis.
A more depressed specimen.
Cave Creek Canyon Chiricahua Mountains Xo.
87076.
A. S. X. Phila.
Figs.
7 8 9 10.
 Helicodiscus parallelus Say.
Philadelphia Pa. Xo.
78272 A. X. S. Phila.
Plate IX.
 Figs.
1 2 3.
 Planorbis filocincius Pils.
and Ferr.
Type.
Figs.
4 5.
 Planorbis carus Pils.
and Ferr.
Type.
Fig.
6.
 Valvata micra nugax Pils.
and Ferr.
Type.
Figs.
7 8 9.
 Valvata niicra Pils.
and Ferr.
Type.
Figs.
10 11 12 13.
 Cochliopa riograndensis Pils.
and Ferr.
Cotypes.
April 3.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Eightynine persons present.
The reception of a paper entitled New Rare and Littleknown Scombridse No.
3 by Henry W. Fowler March 22 was reported by the Publication Committee.
The death of Dr. Ogden Doremus a correspondent March 22 was announced.
Dr. E. G. Conklin made a communication on recent views as to the cause of sex.
No abstract.
April 17.
Mr. Frank J. Keeley in the Chair.
Seventy persons present.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under the following t'tles Description of a new Australian Glycymeris by Henry A. Pilsbry April 10.
A Monograph of the Genus Cohocalia by Harry C. Oberholser April 12.
On Hawaiian Species of Sphyradium by Henry A. Pilsbry and C. M. Cooke Jr. Mr. George Vaux Jr. exhibited a number of beautiful lantern illustrations before the reading of a paper by William S. Vaux Jr. giving the results of recent studies of glaciers 'of the Canadian Rockies and the Selkirks in continuation of a series of observations extending over a period of eight years.
The paper will be published later.
Messrs. Ogilsby Paul and Norton Downs M.D. were elected members.
The following were ordered to be printed A MONOGRAPH OF THE GENUS COLLOCALIA.
BY HARRY C. OBERHOLSER.
There is perhaps no other group of Swifts that equals in general interest the genus Collocalia.
Some of the species build edible nests wholly or partly of saliva which is secreted in large quantities by salivary glands of unusual size and the gathering and marketing of these nests has in some places and at some times grown to a traffic of considerable importance.
Owing to the great similarity of many of the species and the obscurity of the characters separating them the group is one of the most difficult in the entire family Micropodidse.
Published descriptions particularly those of the older authors are often so brief and so lacking in mention of really diagnostic characters that it is hard sometimes even impossible to determine with certainty the form intended.
Fortunately perhaps the sexes except in a very few cases are practically identical both in size and coloration.
Notwithstanding the fact that some authors have minimized the importance of difference in size  The most important papers on the genus are as follows HoRSFiELD T. and Moore F.  Genus Collocalia.
A Catalogue of the Birds in the Museum of the Hon.
East India Company I 1854 pp.
98106.
Bonaparte C. L.  Note sur les Salanganes et sur leur nids.
Comptes Rendus de r Academie des Sciences de Paris XLI 1855 pp.
976979.
Bernstein H. A.
 Beitrage zur naheren Kenntniss der Gattung Collocalia Gr.
Nova Acta Academiae Leopoldinae Carolinae Naturae Curiosorum XXVI 1 1857 pp.
1332.
Bernstein H. A.
 Ueber die Nester der Salanganen.
Journal fur Ornithologie 1859 pp.
111119.
Wallace A. R.  On the Identification of the Hirundo esculenta of Linnaeus with a Synopsis of the Described Species of Collocalia.
Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London 1863 pp.
382385.
Gray G. R.  A Synopsis of the Species of the Genus Collocalia with Descriptions of New Species.
Annals and Magazine of Natural History Series 3 XVII 1866 pp.
118128.
Salvadori T.  Osservazioni intorno ad alcune Specie del Genere Collocalia G. R. Gr.
Atti delta R. Accademia della Scienze di Torino XV 1879 pp.
343350.
Hartert E.  Collocalia.
Catalogue of the Birds in the British Museum XVI 1892 pp.
496511.
Hartert E. Gen. Collocalia G. R. Gray.
Das Tierreich I 1897 pp.
6670.
12 this is often one of the very best and most appreciable distinctions between both species and subspecies.
One of the most smprising as well as interesting developments of our study has been the discovery of so many undescribed members of the genus among which two entirely distinct species with wholly brownish lores like Collocalia leucophaea seem especially notable as does also one from New Caledonia allied to Collocalia leucopygia.
Most of the new forms are here elaborated from material recently collected and upon which no published report has yet been made.
Much confusion has hitherto arisen because of failure properly to discriminate those birds which have the tarsus more or less feathered from those in which it is entirely bare.
In some cases forms with feathered and others with unfeathered tarsi have been considered subspecifically related or even identical 
The difficulty vanishes however if all the birds with any feathering on the tarsus be considered apart from the rest and placed as they apparently should be and as they are in the following pages in a separate subgeneric group.
Indeed it may be best to regard them as even generically distinct though it is not here so done because this character of tarsal feathering is the sole one separating the groups and while very marked in such forms as Collocalia innominata it is but slight sometimes difficult to appreciate therefore in a sense intermediate in Collocalia fuciphaga and its allies  and because if there be any logical difference between a genus and a subgenus the criterion of practical intergradation of characters through intermediate species should be so considered.
The proper generic name for the whole group seems to be Collocalia  the one of current usage.
The name Salangana St.Hilaire has been recently substituted  because supposedly of earlier date but Salangana now proves first to have been employed simply in a vernacular sense and to be citable as a generic term only from a later article  which is posterior to the work containing Collocalia Gray. There are no other synonyms.
The material used in the preparation of the present memoir aggregates 159 specimens principally of recent collection and represents very nearly all the recognized forms.
It is in large part that of the United States National Museum which is now through the many donations from Dr. W. L. Abbott of considerable extent and includes good series of many of the species.
This has been supplemented by 2 Richmond Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXV 1902 p. 301.
  Salanganes  SaintHilaire I' Echo du Monde Savant IV 1837 p. 84.
Rev.
Zool 1840 p. 145.
List Gen.
Birds 1840 p. 8. the birds obtained by Mr. Charles H. Townsend during the Pacific cruise of the United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross in 18991900 and by specimens from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia the American Museum of Natmal History and the Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum at Honolulu.
To the authorities of these institutions to Mr. Townsend Dr. Charles W. Richmond and Mr. Witmer Stone the Titer's thanks are due for the courtesies which have made this paper possible.
Genus COLLOCALIA Gray.
CoUocalia Gray List Gen.
Birds 1840 p. 8 type Hirundo esculenta Linnaeus.
Salangana Lesson Rev.
Zool. 1840 p. 145 type Hirundo esculenta Linnaeus.
Chars gen.  Small and mostly rather plainly colored Swifts outer and middle toes with normal number of phalanges tarsus not at all or but sparsely feathered and not shorter than the middle toe wings long reaching when closed far beyond end of the tail  tail short nearly square to somewhat deeply emarginate the shafts of the rectrices without spiny tips.
Type.
 Hirundo esculenta Linnaeus.
Geographical range.
 India and Ceylon south to the Seychelles Islands east through the Malay Peninsula the East India Islands and Polynesia to the Philippine Mariana larquesas Society and Tonga groups and northern Australia Key to the Species and Subspecies of Collocalia.
A.
 Tarsus more or less feathered subgenus Aerodramus.
a.
 Rump with a conspicuous white or brownish white band.
h.  Centre of abdomen brownish gray like the breast wing more than 120 mm. .... Collocalia innominata.
b.
 Centre of abdomen white or nearly so wing less than 120 mm.
c.  Upper parts brownish black throat and breast nearly pure white like the abdomen posterior lower surface without conspicuous dark shaft lines Collocalia agnota.
c  Upper parts dull black scarcely brownish throat and breast brownish gray like chin and much darker than abdomen posterior lower surface with conspicuous dark shaft lines .... Collocalia leucopygia.
a.
 Rump without a conspicuous white or brownish white band.
h.  Feathers of lores with brownish bases .
Collocalia ocista.
.
 Feathers of lores with pure white bases.
c.  Wing not less than 124 mm.
d.  Larger upper surface lighter lower surface with conspicuous blackish shaft lines Collocalia lowi.
d.
 Smaller upper surface darker lower surface without conspicuous blackish shaft lines Collocalia brevirostris.
c  Wing less than 124 mm.
d.  Larger wing about 121 mm.
 upper surface more brownish rump noticeably paler than back Collocalia fuciphaga elaphra.
d.
 Smaller wing 108118 mm.
 upper surface more blackish rump not noticeably paler than back.
e.  Lower surface paler upper surface somewhat more brownish Collocalia fuciphaga vestita.
e  Lower surface darker upper surface somewhat more blackish Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga.
B.
 Tarsus entirely unfeathered subgenus Collocalia.
a.
 Abdomen not white in sharp contrast to the breast the lower surface nearly uniform brownish gray.
h.  Rump without a conspicuous white or brownish white band c.  Feathers of the lores with brownish bases Collocalia leucophaea.
c.
 Feathers of the lores with pure white bases.
d.  Larger wing 127140 mm..
e.  Upper surface darker much more blackish  lower surface darker and uniform Collocalia origenis.
eV  Upper surface lighter much more brownish lower surface lighter the throat paler than the rest Collocalia whiteheadi.
rfi. Smaller wing 109.5123 mm..
e.  Upper parts more brownish more uniform the pileum scarcely darker the rump not lighter than the back throat not paler than abdomen.
Collocalia unicolor unicolor.
e.
 Upper parts less brownish less uniform the pileum darker the rump usually lighter than the back throat paler than abdomen Colloccdia unicolor amelis.
51.
 Rimip with a conspicuous white or brownish white band c.  Feathers of lores with brownish bases Collocalia thespesia.
c  Feathers of lores with pure white bases.
d.  Smaller wing 110114 mm..
e.  Abdomen and upper surface darker light rump band with more conspicuous dark shafts  size smaller wing 110111 mm.
 Collocalia francica terraereginae.
gi.
 Abdomen and upper surface paler light rump band with less conspicuous dark shafts size larger wing 112114 Collocalia francica francica.
d  Larger wing 114124 mm.
e. Lower surface with distinct blackish shaft lines  light rump band with dark shaft lines very conspicuous.
.Upper and lower parts much paler light rump band more conspicuous Collocalia francica germani.
f  Upper and lower parts much darker light rump band less conspicuous Collocalia francica inexpectata.
gi .Lower surface without distinct blackish shaft lines light rump band with dark shaft lines almost obsolete.
.Upper surface with little or no greenish gloss  rump band more brownish  posterior lower parts darker Collocalia francica spodiopijgia.
I.
Upper surface with a distinct greenish gloss  rump band more whitish posterior lower parts paler Collocalia francica townsendi.
aAt least the middle of abdomen white in sharp contrast to the gray breast.
h.  Rump with a white band.
c Rectrices with white spots white rump band without blackish shaft lines .
.
.
Collocalia uropygialis.
ci. Rectrices without white spots white rump band with conspicuous blackish shaft lines Collocalia troglodytes.
b.
 Rump without a white band.
c.  Rectrices wath white spots.
. Upper surface brighter and more bluish or purplish  rump wingquills and wingcoverts without light grayish tips Collocalia escidenta.
rfi. Upper surface duller and more greenish rump wdngquills and wingcoverts with light grayish tips.
g. White spots on tailfeathers sharply defined  chm and upper throat paler blackish shaftmarkings of short lower tailcoverts smaller Collocalia neglecta.
gi. Wiiite spots on tailfeathers not sharply defined  chin and upper throat darker  blackish shaftmarkings of short lower tailcoverts larger Collocalia natalis.
c  Rectrices without white spots.
f. Feathers of rump with broad white edgings Collocalia marginata.
fi. Feathers of rump without white edgings.
g.Ving less than 95 mm.
 upper surface much duller Collocalia dodgei.
e.
 Wing more than 95 mm.
 upper surface much brighter.
.
 Upper parts much more bluish or purplish.
g.  Larger wing averaging 104.6 mm.
 Collocalia linchi cyanoptila.
g.
 Smaller wing averaging 99.2 mm.
 Collocalia linchi afjinis.
'.
 Upper parts much more greenish.
g.  Larger wing 103105 mm.
 Collocalia Ihichi linchi.
g.
 Smaller wing 97101.5 mm.
. h.  Upper surface duller somewhat less bluish or purplish size slightly greater Collocalia linchi isonota.
h.
 Upper surface brighter somewhat more bluish or purplish  size slightly less Collocalia linchi elachyptera.
AERODKAMUS.e subgenus nov. Chars subgen.
 Similar in i3roportions to the subgenus Collocalia but tarsus more or less feathered.
Type.
 Collocalia innominata Hume.
Collocalia leucopygia Wallace.
Collocalia leucopygia Wallace Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1863 p. 384.
Chars sp.
 Upper surface dull slightly sooty black with a weak metallic gloss most evident on crown the rump with a broad white band whose feathers have conspicuous blackish shaft lines  wings and tail black with some metallic sheen the latter without white spots  sides of head and neck clove brown the loral feathers with white bases chin and throat brownish gray remaining lower parts pale grayish anteriorly becoming brownish on sides of body and whitish on abdomen all the feathers with distinct darker shaft lines longest under tailcoverts glossy blackish brown thighs and lining of wdng brownish black.
Wing 9599.5 tail 45 exposed culmen 4 tarsus 8.5 mm.
Type locality.
 New Caledonia.
Geographical distribution.
 Loyalty Islands New Hebrides Islands and New Caledonia.
This species may readily be distinguished from all its congeners with feathered tarsi excepting Collocalia innominata and C. agnota by the white band on the rump  and from all but Collocalia agnota by the  arjp aer Spafidv cursare.
white or whitish abdomen.
In color it approaches rather near some species of the subgenus Collocalia notably some forms of Collocalia francica but the whitish abdomen is of course diagnostic.
Collocalia agnota sp.
nov. Chars sp.
 Similar to Collocalia leucopygia but upper surface lighter much more brownish chin upper throat and sides of head much paler brown  ventral surface from the lower throat to anal region more purely white the jugulum and breast white like the abdomen and contrasting sharply with the grayish brown of the chin and upper throat feathers of breast and abdomen without noticeably darker shaft lines  basal portion of rectrices much paler.
Geographical distribution.
 Island of New Caledonia.
Description.
 Type adult female.
No.
8757 American Museum of Natural History New Caledonia Verreaux Collection.
Upper parts brownish black the pileum with some metallic greenish gloss the lack with a faint suggestion of the same the cervix a little lighter and more brownish  rump with a broad band of pure white the feathers of which have dark brown shaft lines rectrices externally brownish black with a slight bluish metallic sheen internally more brownish and proximally growing paler until at base they are quite light brown but without white spots wings brownish black with some metallic sheen the inner margins of quills fuscous lores orbital region and a narrow line across the forehead sepia brown the feathers of the lores with pure white bases sides of neck and breast grayish brown much lighter than the cervix chin and upper throat dull broccoli brown rest of lower parts medially almost pure white though just appreciably brownish anteriorly the sides of body washed with brownish the shorter lower tailcoverts pale brownish gray with darker shaft lines and whitish margins the longest ones dark brown with distally a metallic sheen thighs brownish black lining of wings dark brown.
Wing 105 tail 46 exposed culmen 4 tarsus 9 mm.
The relationships of this evidently distinct and apparently undescribed species are undoubtedly with Collocalia leucopygia as is indicated by the conspicuously feathered tarsi the white abdomen and the white rump band with dark shaft lines.
The only specimen known is the above described one in the American Museum of Natural History.
Collocalia innominata Hume.
Collocalia innominata Hume Stray Feathers I 1873 p. 294.
Collocalia maxima Hume Stray Feathers IV 1876 p. 223 Mergui and Bankasoon Tenasserim nomen nudum.
Chars sp.
 Quite different from Collocalia leucopygia much larger entire lower surface dark brownish gray upper parts more brownish the light rump band decidedly less conspicuous.
Wing 130137 tail 5056 exposed culmen 6 tarsus 1212.5 mm.
Type locality. Fort Mouat South Andaman Island Andaman Islands.
Geographical distribution. Sonthern Tenasserim to Lower Siam and Perak Malay Peninsula Mergui Archipelago accidental
on South Andaman Island.
The large size feathered tarsi light brownish rump band with dark shaft lines and the conspicuously darker mesial lines of the lower surface which last are present in only a few forms of CoZZocaha 'sufficiently distinguish this very strongly characterized species.
An adult female taken by Dr. W. L. Abbott on September 5 1896 at Trong Lower Siam proves its occurrence in that region.
Collocalia ocista sp.
nov. Chars sp.
 Similar to Collocalia leucophaeae but tarsi feathered  slightly smaller except the tail which is longer  upper surface including wings and tail darker more blackish less brownish and on head and back as well as elsewhere with a decided greenish metallic gloss lower parts more grayish.
Geographical distribution.
 Marquesas and Society Islands.
Description.
 Type adult female Nukahiva Island Marquesas Islands September 16 1899 Charles H. Townsend.
Upper surface almost uniform dark sooty brown slightly deeper on the pileum a little lighter on the rump  neither of these differences very noticeable  and everywhere with a greenish metallic sheen wings and tail darker more blackish with a bluish or purplish metallic gloss the wingcoverts slightly more greenish the innermost secondaries and inner margins of the quills at least basally lighter and more brownish  about the same color as the back sides of head clove brown almost as dark as the crown the lores quite so the loral feathers with lighter brown bases lower parts nearly uniform deep brownish gray only the chin and longest under tailcoverts somewhat darker lining of wing clove brown.
This new and very interesting bird is superficially so much like Collocalia leucophaea with the type of which it has been compared that a specimen in the Academy of Natural Sciences Philadelphia collected long ago in the Marquesas Islands and presented by Dr. Gambel was so labelled  but the species may readily be separated by the characters above given.
It is fully as dark below as C. leucophaea and like that species is peculiar in possessing light brown bases to the 1906.
185 feathers of the lores.
From Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga which also to some extent it superficially resembles it may be distinguished by its larger size and more brownish upper parts as well as most trenchantly by the light brown instead of pure white bases of the loral feathers.
From Collocalia fuciphaga elaphra a subspecies hereinafter described with which it agrees in size and which it more closely approaches in the general color of the upper surface it differs in being rather more blackish and more uniform above the rump not so appreciably paler than the back in having much darker lower surface also and most decidedly in having the bases of the feathers of the lores light brown.
This last character alone will separate it from all forms of the genus excepting C. leucophaea and C. thespesia. Three specimens of this new species were collected by ilr.
Charles H. Townsend in 1899 during his recent Pacific cruise on the U. S. Fish Commission steamer ''Albatross.
One of these the single specimen from Tahiti is rather more brownish above and a little paler on the crissum than the type but is very different from C. leucophaea  another from the Marquesas Islands is more blackish above and slightly darker below but the old specimen in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is practically identical with our type.
Measurements of Collocalia ocista are as follows Sex.
Locality.
Date.
Wing.
Tail.
Culmen.
Tarsus.
9 Niikahiva I. Marquesas Islands' Sept. 16 1899 Sept. 15 1899 121 119 117.5 119 123 65 61 61 61 59 5 4 4.5 4.5 4 8.5 9 8.5 9 9  Nukahiva I. Marquesas Islands Marquesas Islands 6 Nukahiva I. Marquesas Islands Tahiti I. Society Islands.
July 18 1902 Nov. 13 1899 Average 119.9 61.4 4.4 8 8 Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga Thunberg.
Hirundo fuciphaga Thunberg K. Vet.
Akad.
Nva Handl. XXXIII 1812 p. 153 pi.
4 Java.
Hirundo vanikorensis Quoy and Gaimard Voy.
Astrolabe Zool. I 1830 p. 206 pi.
XII fig.
3 Vanikoro Island Santa Cruz Islands Pacific Ocean.
Postea p. 188. '
Postea p. 195. '
Type.
Cotyle ranicorensis Boie Isis 1844 p. 170 nom.
emend pro Hirundo vanikorensis Quoy and Gaimard.
Hemiprocne salangana Streubel Isis 1848 p. 368 East Indies.
Cypsehis inquietus Kittlitz Denlvwurd.
Reise II 1858 p. 26 Ualan Island Caroline Islands Pacific Ocean.
Chars subsp.
 Similar to Collocalia leucophaea but decidedly smaller tarsus sparsely feathered  bases of the loral feathers pure white  upper parts very much more blackish and rather more uniform the rump not appreciably lighter than the back.
Type locality.
 Java.
Geographical distribution.
 East India Islands and western Polynesia from Nias Java Borneo and the Natuna Islands northeast to the Philippine Mariana and Caroline Islands east and southeast to New Guinea Duke of York Island Tonga Friendly and Loyalty Islands.
The birds of a good series consisting of specimens from Java the Philippine and Caroline Islands and from Nias Island off the western coast of Sumatra are very uniform in size as well as in the dark lower surface and glossy blackish upper parts indicating thus that the name Hirundo vanikorensis Quoy and Gaimard which was based on the bird from the Santa Cruz Islands is synonymous with Hirundo fuciphaga Thunberg from Java.
A single specimen from Guam Island is however much more brownish above than any of the others examined and may represent an und escribed race.
Much of the difficulty heretofore experienced in identifying this species and in segregating its various forms has arisen from confusing with it the birds with light lower surface and unfeathered tarsi which occur in various localities and most if not all of which are Collocalia unicolor amelis.
The tail in Collocalia fuciphaga is usually quite deeply emarginate but this character varies greatly.
Some specimens in our series have the tail almost even and there is every gradation evident between this condition and that of greatest emargination differences apparently to be accounted for only by individual variation.
Care must therefore be exercised in using the shape of the tail as an absolute character to distinguish this species.
Measurements of Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga are as follows  Voy.
Astrolabe Zool. I 1830 p. 206 pi.
XII fig.
3. 
K. Vet.
Akad.
Nya Handl. XXXIII 1812 p. 153 pi.
4.
1906.
187 Sex.
Locality.
Date.
Wing.
Tail.
Exposed Culmen.
Tarsus.
d Nias Island Mar.
16 1903 d Mercedes Mindanao P. I. Dec. 19 1903 9 Pantar Mindanao P. I. Aug. 13 1903  Java ' d Ualan Island Caroline Is.
Feb. 81900  Ualan Island Caroline Is.
Feb. 16 1900 114.5 114 108 113 114 109 54 50 48 51 54 54 4.5 5 4.5 4.5 4 4 8 10 8.5 9.5 9 9 Average 112.1 51.8 4.4 9 CoUocalia fuciphaga vestita Lesson.
Salangana vestita Lesson I'Echo du Monde Savant ser.
2 VIII 1843 p. 134.
CoUocalia nidifica Gray Genera Birds I 1845 p. 55 Sumatra.
Chars suhsp.
 Similar to CoUocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga but entire lower surface much paler upper parts rather lighter and more brownish.
Type locality.
 Sumatra.
Geographical distribution.
 Sumatra Simalur Island and southern part of Malay Peninsula.
The original CoUocalia fuciphaga was based on the bird from Java from which this western form differs as above said.
For the latter the name Salangana vestita Lesson  seems to be available.
This is founded on  Hirundo esculenia Lath.
Gen. Syn.
pi.
Hab.
les iles de la Malasie  which in both description and locality Sumatra is pertinent to the present form.
Moreover the only Sumatran specimen examined agrees with the birds from Simalur Island upon which latter the present separation is primarily based.
The Nias Island bird however is identical with that of Java as already noted and therefore must be called CoUocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga.
A single adult from Tanjong Silantei on the east coast of Johore southern Malay Peninsula seems to be exactly like the birds from Simalur Island in color but is considerably larger the wing measuring 118 mm.
 notwithstanding this it seems best referred for the present at least to C. f. vestita although additional specimens may show it to be representative of a recognizable subspecies.
Measurements of CoUocalia fuciphaga vestita are as follows  12 VEcho du Monde Savant ser.
2 VIII 1843 p. 134.
3 Latham Gen.
Synop. Suppl.
II 1801 p. 257 pi.
CXXXV.
188 April Sex.
Localihj.
Date.
Wing.
Tail.
Exposed Culmen.
Tarsus.
6 Tanjong Silantei E. Coast Johore Simalur Island Simalur Island Sumatra.. July 26 1901 Dec. 7 1901 Dec. 7 1901 118 111 112.5 115 51 51 48 52 5 5 4.5 4 9 9 9 9.5 Average 114.1 50.5 4.6 9.1 Collocalia fuciphaga elaphra subsp.
nov. Chars subsp.
 Similar to Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga but decidedly larger upper parts much more brownish and less uniform the rump being noticeably lighter than the back lower surface decidedly paler.
Geographical distribution .
 Seychelles Islands Anamla Islands.
Description.
 Type adult sex unknown No.
119779 U. S. N. M. Mahe Island Seychelles Islands April 17 1890 Dr. W. L. Abbott.
Upper surface sooty brown with a very slight greenish gloss the pileum rather darker and more greenish the rump much lighter brownish  but not whitish  this due partially to the lighter bases of the feathers wings and tail darker more blackish with a dull bluish greenish or purplish sheen the wingcoverts decidedly greenish sides of head and neck dark brown darkest on the lores where the feathers have pure white bases entire lower surface rather deep brownish gray somewhat paler posteriorly darker on chin the longest under tailcoverts slightly glossed with greenish  lining of wing blackish brown.
The specimens on which this race is principally established were collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott on Mahe one of the Seychelles Islands.
They differ so much from typical Collocalia fuciphaga of which we have a considerable series from several localities that it seems necessary to regard them as representatives of another subspecies.
The lighter colored rump which seems to be one of the best characters of this race is not sufficiently decided to give the impression of a whitish band such as exists in Collocalia francica and its allies but it is nevertheless quite different from the uniformly dark condition obtaining on the upper surface of Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga.
From Collocalia fuciphaga vestita which in some respects it resembles more closely than it does true fuciphaga it may readily be distinguished by its greater size lighter more brownish and less uniform upper surface with the rump noticeably paler than the back.
This new race how1906.
189 ever does not need special comparison with any further forms of the genus even those possessing feathered tarsi.
Two adults from Pulo Jimaja Anamba Islands are somewhat less brownish above as well as very slightly darker below but nevertheless agree in all details of coloration quite closely with the birds from the Seychelles Islands and differ thus quite remarkably from Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga by whose range the Anamba Islands are pretty well surrounded.
In all measurements excepting that of the wing these two specimens exceed the measurements of fuciphaga and equal or even surpass those of elaphra but the wingquills are molting and not fully grown and there are indications from the relative length of the primaries that the length of the wing would have become when perfect almost if not quite as great as that of elaphra.
In light of present knowledge therefore it seems best to refer to elaphra with the above explanation these two examples from the Anamba Islands even though by so doing elaphra presents an anomalous geographical distribution.
Should however a satisfactory series show the Anamba bird to be really much smaller than that from the Seychelles Islands and reasonably constant in its slight color differences it ought probably to be separated subspecifically.
Measurements of two adults of Collocalia fuciphaga elaphra are here given  Sex.
Locality.
Date.
Wing.
Tail.
Exposed rp Culmen.

Mahe I. Seychelles Is..... April 17 1890 
Mah6 I. Seychelles Is'J April 17 1890 120.5 121 51 51 4.5 4 9 9.5 Averaaje 120.8 51 4.3 9.3 Collocalia brevirostris McClelland.
Hirundo brevirostris McClelland Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1839 p. 155.
Chars sp.
 Similar to Collocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga but much larger tail less deeply emarginate and rump noticeably lighter than the very dark back.
Wing 124127 tail 5559 exposed culmen 5.5 tarsus 10 mm.
Type locality.
 Assam.
Geographical distribution.
 Himalaya Mountains from Dalhousie about 76 east longitude east through Nepal and Sikhim to Assam and Manipur.
This form has been until comparatively recent years usually considiType.
ered identical with Collocalia unicolor from which however it may readily be distinguished by its feathered tarsi darker less brownish upper surface with rump appreciably lighter than the back.
It is most closely allied to Collocalia fuciphaga and by Dr. Hartert is considered a subspecies of this but its large size and other characters combined with its isolated range so far as C. fuciphaga is concerned quite clearly indicate its specific distinctness.
Furthermore there is so far as is known at present no intergradation in size between Collocalia brevirostris and any form of Collocalia fuciphaga and the race of the latter C. f. elaphra which is nearest in size is most different in color.
The socalled intermediate specimens from the western Himalayas mentioned by Dr. Hartert have proved to be examples of Collocalia unicolor a form belonging to the group without feathers on the tarsus and have thus no bearing on the question.
Therefore until actual proof of intergradation with Collocalia fuciphaga be forthcoming the present form should stand as a full species.
Collocalia lowi Sharpe.
Cypselus lowi Sharpe Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1879 p. 333.
Cypselus labuanensis  Ibis 1879 p. 116 in text noinen nudurn.
Chars sp.
 Like Collocalia innominata but rump without a welldefined light band.
Wing 127134 tail 5057 exposed culmen 5 tarsus 1012 mm.
Type locality .2ih2in Island northern Borneo.
Geographical distribution.
 Northern Borneo Palawan Island Philippine Islands Anamba Islands accidental in Sumatra and on Nias Island Hartert.
This species resembles Collocalia leucopygia and Collocalia innominata in possessing dark shaft lines on the lower surface and in this it differs with them from all the other members of the subgenus.
In color above and below  except for the lack of a light rump band  as well as in size and proportions it is identical with Collocalia innominata.
It is so much larger and usually has the tail so much less deeply emarginate than Collocalia fuciphaga and all subspecies of the latter that further comparison is unnecessary.
One specimen in the United States National Museum has the tail by no means square but considerably emarginated from which it is evident that there is considerable individual variation in this regard.
Subgenus COLLOCALIA Gray.
Chars suhgen.
 Tarsus entirely without feathers.
Type.
 Hirundo esculenta Linnaeus.
15 Cat.
Birds Brit.
Mus. XVI 1892 p. .502.
1906.
191 CoUocalia origenis sp.
nov. Chars sp.
 Resembling CoUocalia ivhiteheadi but upper parts much darker more blackish and more uniform the rump not appreciably lighter than the back under surface darker and throat not decidedly paler than abdomen.
Geographical distribution.
 Mindanao Philippine Islands.
Description. Type adult male.
No.
192162 U. S. N. M.  Mount Apo 4000 feet Mindanao Philippine Islands July 4 1904 Dr. E. A. Mearns.
Upper siuface uniform brownish black the rump not lighter but wings and the distinctly forked tail more brownish their feathers paler along the inner margins entire ventral sm'face uniform smoky hair brown the throat not paler sides of head and neck darker brown than the under parts a blackish spot in front of the eye lining of wing blackish brown.
This new species was discovered by Dr. Mearns during his recent trip to the island of Mindanao the four adults obtained having been brought by natives who had found them in a cave on Mount Apo  and we are indebted to him for the privilege of describing them.
In its large size deeply emarginate tail and lack of tarsal feathering CoUocalia origenis agrees with CoUocalia whiteheadi but is readily distinguishable by the dark colors particularly on the upper parts which are even more blackish than in CoUocalia fiiciphaga fuciphaga from the Philippines.
There is a slight sexual difference in this species apparent in our series of two adult males and two adult females but it is possibly not constantly distinctive the females are somewhat more brownish above and slightly paler below.
A very young bird with wings and tail but little grown taken by Dr. Mearns July 11 1904 at Todaya altitude 4000 feet on Iount Apo is fully as llackish on the upper parts as the adults and somewhat darker decidedly more grayish on the ventral surface.
Measurements of the adults are as follows
 Sex.
Locality.
Date.

Mt.
Apo Mindanao P. I. July 4 1904 129 138 134 130 53 60 51 54 6 5.5 5.5 5.5 13 14 12.5 14 Average.
132.8 54.5 5.
13.4 Type.
Collocalia whitehead
Grant.
Collocalia whiteheadi Grant Ibis 1895 p. 459.
Chars sp.
 Similar in color to Collocalia loici but dark shaft streaks on lower parts less distinct  averaging slightly larger with unf eathered tarsi and usually more deeply emarginate tail.
Wing 127140 tail 5057  exposed culmen 5 tarsus 11.513 mm.
Type locality.
 Monte Data highlands of Lepanto northern Luzon Philippine Islands.
Geographical distribution.
 Islands of Luzon and Palawan Philippine Islands.
This very distinct species may be easily distinguished from all the others with unfeathered tarsi excepting Collocalia origenis by its ery large size and from that form by the wellmarked color characters already detailed.
Specimens from Palawan are smaller than those from Luzon touching the minimum of measurements above given and also appear to be more brownish on the upper parts  differences which should they prove reasonably constant would entitle the Palawan bird to subspecific rank.
Collocalia unicolor unicolor Jerdon.
Hirundo unicolor Jerdon Madras Journ. XI 1840 p. 238.
Cypselus concolor Blyth Journ.
As.
Soc.
Bengal XI pt.
2 1842 p. 886 nom.
nov. pro Hirundo unicolor Jerdon.
Chars subsp.
 Resembling Collocalia ichiteheadi but much smaller more brownish and more uniform above the rump not appreciably paler than the back the pileum but little if any darker lower surface rather more brownish and more uniform the throat usually not lighter than the abdomen lining of wing lighter.
Wing 112120.5 tail 5056 exposed culmen 44.5 tarsus 910 mm.
Type locality.
 Coonoor Pass Nilghiri Hills southern India.
Geographical cUstrihution.
 Ceylon and the western coast region of southern India north to Vengmia western Himalayas.
Although this species has commonly been either synonymized with Collocalia fuciphaga or treated as a subspecies of it the entirelj unfeathered tarsi are a character fully sufficient for specific recognition and furthermore the upper surface is more brownish than in even the least blackish forms of Colloclia fuciphaga.
In fact Collocalia unicolor is really more closely allied to Collocalia ichiteheadi than to Collocalia fuciphaga
Dr. Hartert has given as a reason for considering C. unicolor a subspecies of C. fuciphaga that some Celebes birds similar to C. unicolor in color which he refers to C. fuciphaga have no tarsal 1 Ibis 1896 p. 369 feathers  but these have hardly bearing on the question for they without much doubt belong to Collocalia unicolor amelis.
The present form is said to occur in the western Himalaya Mountains but careful comparison of a satisfactory series from this locality with typical examples from southern India would possibly show subspecific differences.
Immature birds of Collocalia unicolor are rather darker more sooty than adults both above and below Collocalia unicolor amelis subsp.
nov. Chars subsp.
 Similar to Collocalia unicolor unicolor but less brownish and less uniform above the rump usually appreciably paler than the back the pileiun decidedly darker lower surface rather less brownish and less uniform the throat usually decidedly lighter than the abdomen lining of wing darker tail usually rather less deeply emarginate.
Geographical distribution.
 Philippine Islands Island of Guam 
Celebes 
Louisiade Archipelago.
Description. Type adult male No.
189931 U. S. N. M.  Irisan Benguet Luzon Philippine Islands May 19 1903 R. C. McGregor and A. Celestino.
Upper parts dark sooty brown with a greenish tinge and but little gloss the head darker the rump slightly paler wings and tail darker than the back  blackish brown with a greenish sheen the inner webs of the wingquills dull and paler brown lower surface grayish brown darkest on the lower tailcoverts palest on the throat and jugulum lining of wing blackish brown.
Iris brown bill and claws black legs dark reddish brown.
Several specimens of this new form identified as Collocalia whiteheadi were some time since received from the Philippine Museum by the U. S. National Museum.
Notwithstanding the similarity of proportions including the forking of the tail the very great difference in size renders it easily distinguishable from C. whiteheadi on even superficial examination.
From Collocalia francica and other lightrumped species Collocalia unicolor amelis is at once to be separated by its lack of the whitish band on the rump.
Its nearest relative is of course Collocalia unicolor unicolor of southern India from which though similar in size it differs as above mentioned  but comparison of a series of each of these forms shows noneof the characters to be quite constant hence amelis must rank as a subspecies.
The tarsi in C. u. amelis are entirely devoid of feathers therefore no special comparison is really necessary with Collocalia fuciphaga and its allies except for specimens of fuciphaga that have accidentally lost the tarsal 13 194 April feathering.
In color C. u. amelis differs from C. fuciphaga fuciphaga by reason of paler ventral surface particularly the throat and more brownish upper parts with lighter rump.
It is paler more brownish above than C. f. vestita with the rump noticeably lighter than the back.
Compared with C. .
elaphra it has the upper parts less brownish the crown particularly more blackish the rump less different from the back lower surface less uniform the posterior portion darker and size somewhat less.
The small Celebes birds without tarsal feathering mentioned by Mr. Grant belong probably to this subspecies for they are evidently not Collocalia fuciphaga.
Also the birds from St. Aigan Island in the Louisiade Archipelago said by Dr. Hartert  to be light below to have unfeathered tarsi and to build nests different from C. fuciphaga are probably to be referred to C. u. amelis though possibly subspecifically distinct.
Aside from the above Collocalia u. amelis is not at present certainly known except from the Island of Guam where taken by Dr. E. A. Mearns July 20 1905 and from the Philippine archipelago where it has been obtained on the Islands of Luzon Verde Cagayancillo Sibuyan Panay Mindoro Mindanao and Palawan.
It may however be quite generally distributed over the East India Islands and may have been recorded as Collocalia fuciphaga from various localities since hitherto it seems to have been confused with that species because its unfeathered tarsi were not considered significant.
Measurements of part of the U. S. National Museum series of Collocalia unicolor amelis are as follows Sex.
Locality.
Date.
Wing.
Tail.
Culmen.
Tar sits.
6 9 Irisan Benguet Luzon P.I.
' Mindanao P. I Palawan P.I May 19 1903 June 3 1903 Nov. 28 1887 Sept. 5 1887 June 3 1903 113 113 111.5 120 118 118 117 123 109.5 116.5 53 50 50 49.5 46 49.5 50 50 50 50 5 5 4.5 5 5 5 5 5 4.5 4 9.5 10 .
9.5 9.5 10 9.5 9 Irisan Benguet Luzon .
.
tP.
I.
10 10.5 10 10 Average 116 49.8 4.8 9.9 '8 Ibis 1895 p. 462. '
Novit.
Zool VI 1899 p. 211.
 Type.
CoUocalia leucophaea Peale.
Macropteryx leiicophaeus Feale United States Explor.
Exped. VIII 1848 p. 178 pi.
XLIX fig.
3.
CoUocalia cinerea Cassin United States Explor.
Exped. Mamm.
and Ornith. 1858 p. 183 pi.
XII fig.
4 Tahiti Island Society Islands nee Gmelin.
Chars sp.
 Similar to CoUocalia unicolor unicolor but larger upper parts including wings and tail more brownish with less metallic sheen and less uniform the pileum somewhat darker the rump paler than the back feathers of the lores with light brownish instead of white bases.
Wing 120127 tail 5659 exposed culmen 4.55 tarsus 9.510 mm.
Type locality.
 Tahiti Island Society Islands.
Geographical distribution.
 Tahiti Island Society Islands Pacific Ocean.
This very distinct species is superficially somewhat like CoUocalia fuciphaga clophra from the Seychelles but lacks the tarsal feathers is larger more brownish above with less metallic gloss much darker duller more uniform on the lower surface and has brownish in place of white bases to the loral feathers.
It is of course still more different from CoUocalia fuciphaga fuciphaga being much larger decidedly more brownish with scarcely any metallic gloss above and having neither feathers on the tarsi nor white bases to the feathers of the lores.
On the Island of Tahiti alone is this species positively known to occur since all the specimens from the larquesas Islands now at hand prove to belong to CoUocalia ocista.
All previous records of this species from the Marcjuesas Islands therefore need verification though of course its occurrence there is by no means improbable.
Even if the name given to this species by Cassin  CoUocalia cinerea   were not as has already been shown by Dr. Hartert a mistaken identification of his specimen with the Hirundo cinerea of Gmelin which is a swallow  Atticora cinerea  it would still not be the tenable name for the present species since it is ten years posterior to the Macropteryx leucophaeus of Peale and was based on the same type specimen which is yet in the U. S. National Museum.
CoUocalia thespesia sp.
nov. Chars sp.
 Similar to CoUocalia francica germani but the wing slightly the tail very much longer upper parts lighter more brownish  United States Explor.
Exped. Mamm.
and Ornith. 1858 p. 183 pi.
XII fig.
4. 
Cat.
Birds.
Brit.
Mus. XVI 1892 p. 502.
 Syst.
Nat. I ii 1788 p. 1026.
2 United States Explor.
Exped. VIII 1848 p. 178 pi.
XLIX fig.
3. bases of the loral feathers pale brown instead of pure white sides of head and neck together with entire lower svu'face excepting the anal region much darker and more uniform.
Geographical distribution.
 Tahiti Island Society Islands.
Description.
 Type female adult Tahiti Island Society Islands November 14 1899 C. H. Townsend.
Pileum clove brown cervix back upper tailcoverts and part of rump rather lighter and slightly more rufescent with scarcely any metallic gloss rump with a very light brown band slightly whitish along the edges of the feathers and similar to that of CoUocalia francica francica though apparently not quite so broad or so pale the feathers with somewhat though not very conspicuously defined deeper brown shafts wings and tail darker than upper parts and somewhat blackish with a slight purplish or bluish sheen but the basal portion of the rectrices and the inner edge of the wingquills decidedly more brownish  much like the back median and lesser wingcoverts with the tertials also rather lighter more brownish than the quills and somewhat glossed with greenish sides of head clove brown almost as dark as the crown the feathers of the lores with lighter brown bases  sides of neck brown like the cervix  lower surface the same but lighter becoming still a little paler on the abdomen considerably so and appreciably more rufescent on the crissum lining of wing clove brown.
Wing 122 tail 58 exposed culmen 5 tarsus 10 mm.
The single specimen of this new and remarkable species was obtained by Mr. Townsend during the cruise of the Albatross already mentioned.
It differs very strongly from CoUocalia francica spodiopygia the lightrumped form from the Samoan Islands in its larger size lighter much more brownish upper parts rather more narrow rump band darker more uniform ventral surface and especially as from all other species of the entire genus excepting C. leucophaea and C. ocista by the brownish instead of pure white bases of the loral feathers.
From CoUocalia leucophaea it may of course be easily distinguished by the pale band across the rump as well as by somewhat less brownish upper surface and decidedly paler anal region.
From CoUocalia ocista it differs in lack of tarsal feathers in more brownish upper surface pale rump band and lighter anal region.
The only published name that can by any possibility apply to this species is Hirundo peruviana Forster based on a specimen said to have been obtained on Tahiti.
But unless the description of this bird is very erroneous it cannot refer to thespesia as the following quotation Descript.
Anim. 1844 p. 240. will show  Corpus totum supra cum remigibus rectricibusque nigronitens.
Uropygium gula pectus abdomen crissum cinereofuliginosa.
 The upper surface in thespesia is by no means nigronitens being dark brown scarcely more blackish than the same part in Collocalia leucophaea while the rump is not of the same color as the dark gray ventral surface but is very much paler even whitish.
The description of peruviana very much better fits Collocalia francica spodiopygia to which it should probably be referred.
Collooalia francica francica Gmelin.
Hirundo francica Gmelin Syst.
Nat. I ii 1788 p. 1017.
Hirundo francisca Vieillot Nouv.
Diet.
d'Hist.
Nat. XIV 1817 p. 525 Mauritius.
Hirundo francicB Lesson Traite d'Ornith. 1831 p. 270 Mauritius.
Chars sp.
 Like Collocalia unicolor amelis but somewhat smaller rather more brownish above with a distinct broad whitish or brownish white band across the rump paler below especially on the abdomen and crissum lining of wing paler more brownish.
Wing 112114 tail 5152 exposed culmen 45 tarsus 8.510 mm.
Type locality.
 Mauritius Island.
Geographical distribution.
 Islands of INIauritius and Bourbon 
Ceylon.
This form bears some resemblance to Collocalia innominata but is of course much smaller  more brownish above with a paler rump band which has not conspicuously darker shafts  darker below particularly posteriorly without noticeably darker shaft lines and lacks feathers on the tarsus.
It seems to be confined to the Islands of Mauritius and Bourbon for although several times accredited to Madagascar its occurrence there remains to be confirmed and all the East Indian records belong to other subspecies.
Collocalia francica townsendi subsp.
nov. Chars subsp.
 Similar to Collocalia francica francica but wing longer upper surface darker more blackish and more glossed with greenish the rump band on the contrary more whitish lower surface darker.
Geographical distribution.
 Tonga Islands.
Description.
 Type adult female Eua Island Tonga Friendly Islands November 28 1899 C. H. Townsend.
Upper parts including wings and tail brownish black with a greenish metallic sheen the inner webs of the rectrices especially on their basal portions and particularly the inner webs of the wingquills more brownish a conspicuous 28 bid. p. 241.
198 April brownish white  almost pure white  band on the rump its feathers with slightly though not very noticeably dusky shafts sides of head clove brown the lores darker with white bases  sides of neck somewhat lighter brown lower surface brownish gray darkest on chin and the longest lower tailcoverts decidedly paler even almost whitish on lower abdomen and anal region lining of wing clove brown.
From Collocalia francica spodiopygia to which this form has heretofore been referred it differs in considerably more greenish glossy upper surface much more whitish rump and paler posterior lower parts.
It has the most whitish rump of any subspecies of C. francica and seems furthermore to be one of the best marked of these.
It is another of the novelties brought back by Mr. C. H. Townsend from his Pacific cruise in 18991900 and was obtained in only the Tonga group  on Eua Vavau and Nine Islands.
Measurements of these specimens are as follows Sex.
Locality.
Date.
Wing.
X7n ' Vavau I. Tonga Islands.
JDec.
41899 116 d Niue I.   Nov.
25 1899i 116.5 9 Eua I.   Nov. 28 1899 117 52 54 50 4 9 4 9 4 9 Average 116.5 52 4 9 Collocalia francica terraereginae Ramsay.
Cypselus terrceregince Ramsay Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1874 p. 601.
Collocalia infuscata Salvadori Atti R. Accad.
Sci.
Torino XV 1880 p. 348 Ternate Island Molucca Islands.
Chars subsp.
 Similar to Collocalia francica francica but somewhat smaller upper surface darker posterior lower parts more deeply colored imparting thus a more uniform appearance to the ventral surface feathers of the light rump band with more conspicuously blackish shaft lines.
Wing 110111 tail 4853 exposed culmen 5 tarsus 8.710 mm.
Type locality.
 Cardwell Rockingham Bay Queensland Australia.
Geographical distribution.
 Northern Queensland and southern New Guinea to Jampea Island Ternate Island and probably also other islands of the Molucca group.
This race may be distinguished from Collocalia francica spodiopygia chiefly by its much smaller size more conspicuously blackish shaft  Type.
lines on the feathers of the light rump band and by more glossy upper surface.
From Collocalia francica townsendi it differs in shorter wing less whitish rump band with conspicuous blackish shaft lines and darker abdomen.
The subspecific separation of the present form is made principally on the basis of the bird from Ternate Island described by Count Salvador
as Collocalia injuscata which is certainly different from both francica and spodiopygia although considered by Dr. Hartert as inseparable from the latter. Although no specimens from northern Queensland the Cypselus terraereginae of Ramsay jhave been examined in the present connection the characters of size and coloration assigned them agree apparently best with this form for which therefore terraereginae by priority becomes the proper subspecific name.
Should however the birds from Queensland which are undoubtedly not to be referred to spodiopygia and probably not to francica ultimately prove to be different from those of the Molucca Islands the latter must stand as Collocalia francica infuscata Salvador.
Collocalia francica spodiopygia Feale.
Hirundo peruviana Forster Descript.
Anim. 1844 p. 240 Tahiti Island Society Islands nee Gmelin.
Macropteryx spodiopygius Peale United States Explor.
Exped. VIII 1848 p. 176 pi.
XLIX fig.
2 Upolu Island Samoa Islands.
Herse forsteri Hartlaub Journ.
f.
Ornith. 1854 p. 169 nom.
nov. pro Hirundo peruviana Forster.
Chars subsp.
 Like Collocalia francica francica but wing longer upper parts more blackish and less glossy also lower surface particularly the abdomen darker rump band less whitish.
Wing 116117 tail 4854 exposed culmen 45 tarsus 89 mm.
Type locality.
 Upolu Island Samoa Islands.
Geographical distribution.
 Solomon Samoan and Fiji Islands Tahiti Island.
This dark form from western Polynesia certainly deserves recognition on good average characters as distinguished from Collocalia francica francica with which it has heretofore been synonymized.
It is indeed both in color and size apparently nearer Collocalia francica inexpectata from which it differs chiefly in its smaller size less glossy upper surface lighter rump band and obsolescence usually absence of dark shaft lines on rump and under parts.
Peale's type of 28 Atti R. Accad.
Sci.
Torino XV 1880 p. 348. 
Cat.
Birds Brit.
Mus. XVI 1892 p. 504.
'Proc.
Zool.
Sac.
Lond. 1874 p. 601. spodiopygia is still in the United States National Museum and fairly well preserved.
The name Hirundo peruviana Forster based on specimens from Tahiti seems recently to have been pretty generally ignored or overlooked but that it in all probability applies to this form as some authors have indicated notwithstanding that there is no other record from Tahiti may easily be seen by examination of the excellent original description.It is however unavailable for use in the present case since it is preoccupied by Hirundo peruviana Gmelin which is certainly some other bird.
The Herse forsteri of Hartlaub  is as he states a renaming of Forster's Hirundo peruviana but is antedated by Macropteryx spodiopygius Peale. CoUocalia francioa inexpeotata Hume.
Collocalia inexpedata Hume Stray Feathers I 1873 p. 296.
Chars subsp.
 Similar to CoUocalia francica francica but larger upper surface decidedly darker less brownish and with more metallic greenish gloss wings and tail with more metallic bluish and purplish tinge rump much darker making its light band less well defined the feathers with much more distinct blackish shaft lines lower parts particularly abdomen and crissum darker more uniform and with more evident dusky shaft lines.
Wing 114124 tail 5054 exposed culmen 4.55 tarsus 9.510.5 mm.
Type locality.
 Button Island Andaman Islands.
Geographical distribution.
 Southern Andaman Islands Nicobar Islands Pulo Tioman and both coasts of the southern part of the Malay Peninsula 
accidental in Amherst Tenasserim Hartert.
This race may be distinguished from Collocalia f. townsendi by somewhat larger average size much darker rump band with blackish shaft lines more conspicuous and decidedly more deeply colored posterior lower parts with evident darker shaft lines from Collocalia f. terraereg'mae by much greater size darker rump band and more noticeable dark shaft lines on abdomen and crissum.
It differs from Collocalia francica spodiopygia in its somewhat greater size more glossy upper surface more bluish and purplish metallic sheen on wings and tail presence of appreciably dusky shaft lines on the posterior lower parts  Descript.
Anim. 1844 p. 240.
32 Ihid.
33 Syst.
Nat. I ii 1788 p. 1025.
3 Journ.
f.
Ornith. 1854 p. 169.
35 United States Explor.
Exped. VIII 1848 p. 176 pi.
XLIX fig.
2. and in duller less welldefined rump band the feathers of which have much more conspicuous dark shaft lines.
Birds from the southern part of the Malay Peninsula  both eastern and western sides as well as from Pulo Tioman off the east coast average larger than those from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands but this is apparently too slight and inconstant in the absence of any accompanying color difference to warrant recognition by name.
In C. f. inexpectata as in other forms there is considerable individual color variation evident in this case chiefly on the lower parts and the light rump band.
The single specimen of inexpectata recorded by Dr. Hartert  from Amherst Tenasserim is possibly rather to be referred to Collocalia f. germani for it is more probably an unusually dark example of the latter whose home is near by than a stray from the faroff southern Andaman Islands.
Collocalia franoica germani Oustalet.
Collocalia germani Oustalet Bull.
Soc.
Philom.
Paris 1876 pp.
13.
Collocalia francica subsp.
3.
merguiensis Hartert Cat.
Birds Brit.
Mus. XVI 1892 p. 506 Mergui Tenasserim.
Chars subsp.
 Similar to Collocalia francica francica but larger upper surface more glossed with metallic greenish light rump band with more evident blackish shaft lines posterior lower surface darker and with more conspicuous dark shaft lines.
Wing 115121.5 average 118.3 tail 4952.5 average 51.3 exposed culmen 4.55 average 4.9 tarsus 911 average 10 mm. Type locality.
 Condore Island China Sea off the southeastern coast of Cochin China.
Geographical distribution.
 Mergui Archipelago Tenasserim Malay Peninsula south to Lower Siam Condore Island Cochin China Philippine Islands.
Like many of the forms of Collocalia this race is on account of individual variation difficult to determine satisfactorily without a sufficient series but it is nevertheless worthy of recognition.
It is distinguishable from Collocalia f. spodiopygia by its lighter more greenish glossy upper surface more metallic bluish and purplish sheen on wings and tail welldefined blackish shaft streaks on the feathers of the light rump band  paler lower parts with dark shaft streaks on abdomen and somewhat larger size.
From Collocalia f. townsendi it may be separated by rather greater size lighter more brownish upper 3 Cat.
Birds Brit.
Mus. XVI 1892 p. 505 Tierreich I 1897 p. 69.
' Ten specimens.
parts less whitish rump band and darker abdomen both with more distinct dusky or blackish shaft lines.
From Collocalia f. terraereginae it may be distinguished by its much larger size lighter more brownish upper surface and more conspicuous dark shaft lines on the posterior lower parts.
From Collocalia f. inexpectata it differs in its decidedly paler under surface lighter more brownish upper parts and more prominent less brownish light rump band but occasional intermediate individuals occur that are difficult to distinguish.
The dark shaft lines of the lower surface vary much in different individuals being apparently most evident in immature birds.
The measurements of this form given by Hartert  are rather too large as may be seen by reference to the above averages but were probably taken from a limited number of specimens.
A series of birds from Trong Lower Siam and another from the Philippine archipelago seem to be identical and together are certainly all referable to this race although a few of those from Cagayan Sulu in the southwestern Philippines are more blackish above and show in this but not in size some vergence toward Collocalia francica terraereginae.
There are examples in the United States National Museum from the following islands of the Philippines Panay Cagayan Sulu and Cagayancillo in the Cagayanes group.
It has also been recorded as Collocalia francica from Cuyo Negros and Calamianes.
All Philippine records of both francica and inexpectata refer of course to germani.
The identity of Collocalia germani Oustalet and Collocalia francica merguiensis Hartert may be considered as conclusively established for Dr. Hartert assures us  that he has compared the types.
That germani is rightly considered a subspecies of Collocalia francica seems to be equally certain for Dr. R. Bowdler Sharpe who at our request carefully examined the series of merguiensis in the British Museum informs us ' that there is not the slightest indication of tarsal feathering on any of the specimens.
Collocalia troglodytes Gray.
Collocalia troglodytes Gray Gen.
Birds I 1845 p. 55 pi.
19.
Chars sp.
 Very much smaller than Collocalia francica francica upper parts including wings and tail black with a metallic greenish or bluish gloss a pure white welldefined rump band the feathers of which have blackish shafts and most of them dark tips abdomen 38 Cat.
Birds Brit.
Mus. XVI 1892 p. 506 Tierreich I 1897 p. 69.
3 In litt.
 In litt.
white or whitish in contrast to most of the remaining more or less deeply brownish lower parts under tailcoverts like the back lining of the wing rather more brownish.
Wing 8696 tail 3842 exposed culmen 3.5 tarsus 99.5 mm.
Type locality.
 Philippine Islands.
Geographical distribution.
 Philippine Islafids.
This very distinct species differs markedly from all the preceding forms with unfeathered tarsi in its small size deeply blackish upper surface white abdomen and peculiar white rump band.
It is superficially very similar to Collocalia leucopygia but aside from the lack of tarsal feathers is easily distinguished from that species by its more greenish upper surface broad blackish tips to the white feathers of the rump band  and more extensively blackish lower tailcoverts.
There is considerable variation in the winglength of C. troglodytes but this does not seem to be correlated with different geographical areas.
The species has been obtained on the following islands of the Philippine archipelago Mindanao Palawan Siquijor Cebu Masbate Negros Guimaras Panay Romblon Sibuyan Mindoro Luzon Marinduque Samar Leyte and Ticao.
Collocalia uropypialis Gray.
Collocalia uropygialis Gray Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. ser.
3 XVII 1S66 p. 123.
Chars sp.
 Similar to Collocalia troglodytes but rather larger feathers of the white band on the rump without blackish shafts or tips  most of the rectrices usually with white spots on the basal portion of inner webs some of the under wingcoverts and lower tailcoverts with whitish tips or margins.
Wing 8999 tail 3844 tarsus 7 mm.
Type locality.
 Aneiteum Island New Hebrides Islands.
Geographical distribution.
 New Caledonia and New Hebrides Islands.
Readily distinguished from all the other lightrumped forms of the genus by the white spots on the tailfeathers with the remaining species it needs no special comparison.
Collocalia marginata Salvador.
Collocalia marginata Salvadori Atti R. Acad.
Sci.
Torino XVII 1882 p. 448.
Collocalia cebuensis Kutter Journ.
f.
Ornith. 1882 p. 171 Cebu Island Philippine Islands.
Chars sp.
 Somewhat like Collocalia uropygialis but larger rather more greenish above rump without a white band but its feathers with conspicuous white edgings rectrices never with white spots.
Wing 103107 tail 4143 exposed ciilmen 3.54 tarsus 7.59 mm.
Type locality. Cehu Island Philippine Islands.
Geographical distribution.
 Philippine Islands.
This interesting bird supposed until recently to be very rare bids fair to be found distributed pretty generally throughout the Philippine archipelago.
Up to the present time it has been ascertained to occur on the following islands Cebu Masjjate Luzon McGregor Mind or o Calayan and Sibuyan.
It scarcely needs close comparison with any other member of the genus except Collocalia linchi and to distinguish it from this there should be no difficulty.
The white margins of the brownish gray feathers of the throat and breast are usually broad and conspicuous but occasionally in even unworn specimens are almost obsolete.
Collocalia linchi linchi Horsfield and Moore.
1 Hemiprocne fucirora Streubel Lsis 1848 p. 369 East Indies.
Collocalia linchi Horsfield and Moore Cat.
Birds Mus.
East Ind.
Comp. I 1854 p. 100 Java.
Chars subsp.
 Very much hke Collocalia marginata but feathers of the rump without white margins  upper surface usually more brightly colored throat and breast generally with less conspicuous white edgings.
Type locality.
 Java.
Geographical distribution.
 Java  Lombok  Kangean Islands  Sumatra including the islands along its western coast Singapore and the southern part of the Malay Peninsula Borneo.
This species is shown by the considerable amount of material from various parts of its range now in the United States National Museum to be divisible into several recognizable races which are diagnosed below.
Aside from the evident geographical variation there are some differences that seem to be due to wear of the plumage and to obtain alike in all the forms.
The color of the upper parts changes little through sex age or season although there is a normal but not very considerable amount of individual variation.
The deep gray of the anterior lower parts is decidedly more brownish when the feathers become old  and the white or whitish margins that in fresh plumage are often very conspicuous on throat breast and under wingcoverts sometimes almost entirely disappear through abrasion.
Likewise the broadly white edgings of sides flanks and lower breast wear off and ultimately allow much of the slate gray bases of the feathers to show in this way decidedly darkening the general appearance of the parts.
This form of Collocalia linchi as compared with the other sub1906.
205 species is characterized by large size and by very greenish upper parts inchiding wings and tail with but slight tinge and very little or no admixture of bluish.
The United States National luseum possesses a fair series from Sikakap Strait North Pagi Island off the western coast of Sumatra  and a specimen from Singapore is also identical.
Borneo is doubtfully included in the range of this race as we have examined no specimens from that island and its bird may be like that of either the Natuna Islands or even the Philippines or may prove to be an endemic form.
Measurements of Collocalia linchi linchi are as follows  Sex.
Locality.
Date.
Wing.
fxrrf Tarms.



Sikakap Str. No.
Pagi I. Singapore Nov. 12 1902 Aug. 28 1879 105 103 105.5 104.5 103.5 105 44 
4.5 43 1 4.5 42 4.5 42 4.5 42.5 4.5 42 4.5 8.5 9 9 8.5 8.5 9 Average 104.4 42.6 4.5 8 8 CoUooalia linchi cyanoptila subsp.
nov. Chars subsp.
 Similar to Collocalia linchi linchi with which it agrees in size but upper surface of head and body much more bluish in shade and with considerable admixture of bluish purple wings and particularly the tail decidedly more bluish.
Geographical distribution.
 Natuna Islands and Linga Island.
Description. Type adult female.
No.
174688 U. S. N. M. Bunguran Island Natuna Islands July 1 1900 Dr. W. L. Abbott.
Upper parts metallic dark bluish green much mixed with bluish purple most noticeably so on posterior portion tail bluish green decidedly tinged with purplish wings sepia brown dull metallic purplish on most of their exposed portions the coverts more brightly colored and mixed with dark green sides of head and neck throat breast flanks and sides of body brownish slate the feathers of the lores with cottony white bases those of throat and breast with inconspicuous pale gray or whitish tips those of lower breast sides and flanks broadly margined and terminated with white median portion of abdomen white with some narrow slaty shaft streaks lower tailcoverts dark bluish metallic green the longer ones immaculate the shorter ones margined with white lining of wing dull dark metallic green.
206 April This new race is quite different from true Collocalia linchi the only form of the species with which it agrees in size and it may readily be distinguished on even superficial comparison by the difference in the color of the upper parts.
The best and most uniform character is the always much more bluish or purplish color of the upper surface of the tail.
A single adult male from Linga Island southeast of Singapore is intermediate between cyanoptila and linchi but there is so much purplish and bluish in the color of the upper parts and the tail is so nearly like that of cyanoptila that the specimen must apparently be referred to the latter although this island is far from the Natuna group and in a location where linchi is the form we should naturally expect to find.
Further examples from Linga may however show that the average characters of the bird found there will place it with linchi.
Measurements of the adults of Collocalia linchi cyanoptila are as follows  Sex.
Locality.
Date.
Wing.
Tail.
Exposed Culmen.
Tarsus.
Bunguran I. Natuna Is.
July 11900 107  j  i 102 July 11 1900l 108 Linga Island 'July 10 1899 101.5 41 41 43 40 4.5 4.5 4.5 4 7.5 8.5 8 7.5 Average 104.6 i 41.3 4.4 7.9 Collocalia linchi affinis Beavan.
Collocalia affinis Beavan Ibis 1867 p. 318 ex Tytler MS..
Chars suhsp.
 Similar to Collocalia linchi cyanoptila lut very much smaller.
Type locality.
 Port Blair South Andaman Island Andaman Islands.
GeograpJiical distribution.
 Andaman and Nicobar Islands.
This form long ago described from the southern Andaman Islands by Beavan has hitherto usually been considered the same as linchi.
The satisfactory series obtained by Dr. W. L. Abbott in the Nicobar Islands however now conclusively establishes its claim to recognition.
It differs from true linchi in its much smaller size and the decidedly bluish or purplish shade of the upper surface particularly the tailcoverts and tail. 
Type.
Measurements of Collocalia linchi affinis are as below  Sex.
Locality.
Date.
Wing.
Tail.
Exposed Culmen.
Tarsus.
9 Little NicobarI.Nicobar Is.
Mar.
2 1901 98 40 4 8.5 9 tl U X 98 41.5 4 8.5  Feb. 26 1901 99 39 4 8 9    100 41 4 8 9 jFeb.
27 1901 101 39.5 4 8 9  i 99 38 4 8 Average 99.2 39.8 4 8.2 Collocalia linchi elachyptera subsp.
nov. Chars subsp.
 Similar to Collocalia linchi affinis but more greenish on all the upper parts particularly on back wings and tail.
Geographical distribution.
 Islands of the Mergui Archipelago.
Description. Type adult male.
No.
173028 U. S. N. M. Bentinck Island Mergui Archipelago March 9 1900 Dr. W. L. Abbott.
Upper parts deep metallic green with an appreciable bluish purple tinge particularly on the upper tailcoverts  tail the same but more bluish  wings fuscous the exposed portion of quills and primary coverts with a dull metallic purplish sheen the other superior coverts like the back lores dark brown the feathers with pure white bases rest of sides of head and neck with chin throat and breast dull brownish slate color the feathers of the throat and upper breast with pale grayish or whitish tips lower breast sides and flanks brownish slate with a slight metallic greenish sheen the feathers all broadly margined with white which much obscures the darker color  middle of abdomen white with shaft markings of dusky exposed portions of lower tailcoverts dark metallic greenish the shortest brownish all but the longest broadly bordered with white lining of wing dark brown glossed with metallic green.
Bill black iris dark brown feet dark fleshy brown.
This race is of course intermediate between Collocalia linchi affinis from the Andaman Islands and Collocalia I. isonota'' from the Philippines but the differences that characterize it are readily appreciable in a series as well as in a large proportion of individual specimens and seem particularly when its isolated range is taken into account quite sufficient for its recognition by name.
It is readily distinguishable from true linchi by reason of its much inferior dimensions  Postea.
208 April and more bluish or purplish upper parts especially wings and tail from cyanoptila by its small size and more greenish upper surface including wings and tail.
So far as known it does not occur outside the Mergui Archipelago where it has been taken on only Bentinck Island but it undoubtedly is to be found on other islands of the group while there would seem to be no improbability of its occasional if not regular occvirrence on the adjacent mainland.
Measurements are subjoined Sex Locality.
Date.
Wing.
Tail.
Exposed Culmen.
Tarsus.
j Bentinck I. Mergui Arch.
Mar.
10 1900 Mar.
9 1900 101 98.5 100 100.5 97 41 39 42.5 41 39 4 4.5 4.5 4.5 4.5 8.5 8 8.5 9 8.5 Average 99.4 40.5 4.4 8.5 CoUocalia linchi isonota subsp.
nov. Chars suhsp.
 Resembling CoUocalia linchi elachyptera but averaging slightly larger color of upper parts decidedly duller and somewhat less bluish or purplish.
Geographical distribution.
 Philippine Islands.
Description.
 Type adult male No.
192610 U. S. N. M. Irisan Benguet Luzon Philippine Islands June 3 1903 R. C. McGregor and A. Celestino.
Upper smface dull dark metallic green the crown and upper tailcoverts with a slight bluish tinge tail of the same color scarcely more bluish wings fuscous the exposed surface of the quills dull greenish blue with but little metallic sheen the superior coverts like the back lores dark brown the feathers with pure white bases sides of head and neck chin throat breast sides and flanks brownish slate color the throat and breast feathers with margins of pale grayish or whitish those of lower breast of sides and flanks so broadly bordered with white that the ground color is largely overlaid median portion of abdomen white with very fine dusky shaft lines longest lower tailcoverts dull dark metallic green slightly or not at all margined with whitish the shorter ones brownish with ample white edges or nearly all white with a dusky shaftstripe lining of wing dark brown slightly glossed with metallic greenish.
This race differs from CoUocalia linchi linchi in its smaller size and  Type 1906.
209 much duller slightly more bluish upper parts  from C. I. cyanoptila in inferior size and much duller more greenish upper surface and from C. I. affinis in somewhat longer wing slightly shorter tail and decidedly duller more greenish upper parts particularly the tail.
Birds in juvenal plumage even before their wings and tails are fully grown seem to be exactly like the adults in color above and not appreciably different below except for possibly broader more evident white margins on lower breast sides flanks and lining of wing.
This form of Collocalia linchi appears to be confined to the Philippine archipelago and has been taken on only Luzon Mindoro Mindanao and Bongao.
Measurements of three adults are as under  Sex.
Locality.
Date.
Wing.
Tail.
Exposed Culmen.
Tarsus.
1 Irisan Benguet Luzon P.I.
11 a 44 May 17 1903 June 6 1903 Mav 8 1903 101.5 100 100.5 37 39.5 36.5 3.5 4 4 8.5 9 9 100.7 37.7 3.8 8.8 Collocalia dodgei Richmond.
Collocalia dodgei Richmond Smithson.
Quart. II 1905 p. 431.
Chars sp.
 Resembling Collocalia linchi isonota but very much smaller upper parts still duller more sooty with an even more greenish metallic gloss.
Wing 88.5' tail 33 exposed culmen 3.5 tarsus 7 mm.
Type locality.
 Mount Kina Balu northeastern Borneo.
Geographical distribution.
 Mount Kina Balu northeastern Borneo Description.
 Type adult sex unknown No.
191575 U. S. N. M. Mount Kina Balu Borneo spring of 1904 George H. Goss and H. D. Dodge.
Upper parts dull brownish black with an appreciable oilgreen metallic gloss the pileum slightly darker tail and superior tailcoverts darker greenish somewhat shaded with bluish and without trace of white markings wings like the tail but inner margin of quills brownish with little or no metallic sheen and upper wingcoverts with innermost secondaries more greenish like the back sides of head and neck chin throat breast sides and flanks brownish slate darkest  Type.
 Dr. Richmond's measurement of the wing is too great loc.
cit..
14 on sides of head the feathers of lores with pure white bases those of middle of lower throat and breast slightly of the sides and flanks more or less broadly margined with whitish centre of abdomen white lower tailcoverts dusky with a slight greenish gloss the longest ones narrowly the shorter ones conspicuously edged all around with white some of the shortest entirely white save for a narrow dusky shaft line  under wingcoverts blackish with the dull oilgreen gloss of the upper surface a few of the dark brown axillars tipped with white.
This remarkably distinct species continues to be known from only the type specimen which was obtained by Messrs. Goss and Dodge during their recent expedition to Mount Kina Balu.
This example is fully adult and in perfect plumage.
By reason of its white abdomen uniform greenish upper parts with lack of any white on the rump and also of white markings on the tail Collocalia dodgei needs special comparison with none of its congeners unless it be C. linchi.
From the typical form of the latter species it differs even more than from C. I. isonota the one to which it seems to be most closely allied but from which however it is specifically distinct.
Whether the previous records of Collocalia linchi from Iount Kina Balu and from other parts of Borneo belong to this newly described species or to some form of linchi we are unable with our present material to determine and this will be an interesting question for future investigation.
Collocalia esculenta LinniBus.
Hirundo esculenta Linnseus Syst.
Nat. ed.
10 I 1758 p. 191 China locality wrong Amboina is the proper type locality.
Collocalia hypoleuca Gray Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1858 p. 170 Aru Islands.
Collocalia viridinitens Gray Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. ser.
3 XVII 1866 p. 120 Celebes.
Collocalia spilura Gray Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. ser.
3 XVII 1866 p. 120 Batchian.
Chars sp.
 Resembling Collocalia linchi but averaging decidedly smaller  most of the rectrices with large white spots on the basal portion of their inner webs.
Wing 69103 tail 3844 exposed culmen 3.54 tarsus 8 mm.
Type locality.
 Amboina Island Molucca Islands.
Geographical distribution.
 East India Islands from Celebes and Sumbawa Island to the Solomon Islands and the Louisiade Archipelago including New Guinea Cape York Queensland Australia.
Dr. Hartert is undoubtedly correct in his identification and adoption of Linnseus' Hirundo esculenta  even though the latter author gives  Syst.
Nat. ed.
10 1 1758 p. 191. thelocality wrong since the description given by Rumphius whom Linnaeus cites refers without doubt to the present species.
There seem to be at least two forms inchided under the name esculenta as now current but the material at our disposal does not permit a satisfactory segregation of these.
Collooalia neglecta Gray.
CoUocalia neglecta Gray Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. ser.
3 XVII 1S66 p. 121.
Chars sp.
 Similar to CoUocalia esculenta from which it differs in the much duller and greenish instead of bluish or purplish upper surface rump wingquills and wingcoverts with light grayish tips that are however sometimes obsolescent particularly in old or worn birds.
Wing 8897 tail 4143 exposed culmen 3.54 tarsus 6.5 mm.
Type locality.
 Eastern Timor.
Geographical distribution.
 East Indian Islands of Timor Savu Alor Dammer Roma Kisser and Wetter.
In the specimens from Timor examined the upper parts are dull grayish metallic green the wings and tail slightly more bluish the anterior lower parts including the breast brownish gray the feathers tipped with grayish white producing a mottled appearance the middle of the breast and jugulum having most white the chin scarcely any abdomen nearly pure white feathers of the sides with brownish gray centres and whitish margins much like the breast lining of wing dark brown slightly mixed with whitish.
Judging from Dr. Hartert's remarks birds of this species from Timor are not just like those on the neighboring islands and the latter may as he suggests be subspecifically separable.
This species is very different from all members of the genus excepting CoUocalia natalis and C. esculenta and may easily be distinguished by its dull greenish upper parts combined with whitespotted tailfeathers.
It is of course near CoUocalia esculenta but apparently quite distinct enough to stand as a species although Dr. Hartert is of opposite opinion.
 CoUocalia natalis Lister.
CoUocalia natalis Lister Proc.
Zool.
Soc Lond. 18S8 p. 520.
Chars sp.
 Similar to CoUocalia neglecta but white markings of tail not sharply defined chin and upper throat darker almost black Herb.
Amboin. VI 1750 p. 183.
 Novit.
Zool IV 1897 p. 268.
' Novit.
Zool XI 1904 p. 203. ish blackish shaft markings of the shorter under tailcoverts larger feathers of the rump with somewhat broader white edgings.
Wing 122 mm.
Type locality.
 Christmas Island Indian Ocean south of western Java.
Geographical distribution.
 Christmas Island Indian Ocean.
This little known form we have not seen  but it is apparently recognizable though very much like Collocalia neglecta of which it is possibly but a subspecies.
1906.1 213 DESCRIPTION OF A NEW ATJSTEALIAN GLYCYMEKISBY HENRY A. PILSBRY Glycymeris insignis n. sp.
The shell is roundedcuneate the valves rather thick and strong inequilateral the posterior outline being longer and subangular the anterior end rounded.
The posterior dorsal slope is flat and the beaks project well above the dorsal outline of the valveedges.
The specimens are worn and without cuticle white in the middle and anteriorly pinkish orange near the posterior end.
Sculpture of about 17 low rounded radial ribs parted by narrower intervals and about six strong broad but unequal concentric waves separated by deep constrictions.
The waves and radial ribs are weak near the anterior end and wanting on the flat posterior slope.
The hingeline is very strongly curved the two sides at an angle of about 90 degrees to each other.
The hingeplate is moderately wide with 12 anterior and 11 posterior teeth three or four near the middle being very small and somewhat irregular.
There is a small triangular area or lozenge below the beaks sculptured en chevron with about six widely diverging grooves.
The basal margin is coarsely crenulate inside in correspondence with the external ribs and the concentric waves of the exterior are very weakly indicated inside.
Length 23 height 24 diameter 15.6 mm.
Length 23.5 height 23.3 diameter 16.7 mm.
Geographe Bay West Australia.
Cotypes two valves right and left received from Dr. J. C. Cox of Sydney New South Wales.
The strongly developed concentric sculpture of this species is unlike any described Pectunculus known to me.
The flat posterior dorsal slope is another peculiar feature.
Dr. Cox writes that it has never been found in fresh condition or with the valves attached.
1906.
215
