A NEW TURBELLARIAN FROM HAWAII.
; ■ " BY HAROLD HEATH.
The species of flatwonn described in the present paper is represented by four individuals dredged by the U. S. F. C. Str.
"Albatross" in the Auau Channel between Maui and Lanai Islands, Hawaii, where the depth is 28-43 fathoms and the bottom consists of sand and gravel.
With one exception the specimens were in perfect condition and swam actively by means of undulatory movements of the lateral margins of the body, as is the habit of several other species of Turbellaria.
Cocaine was used as a narcotizing agent and formaldehyde as a preservative.
The largest specimen is almost circular in outline and measures 35 by 39 mm.
; while the next largest is more oval with a length of 42 mm.
and an average width of 27 mm.
In each case the body is only slightly colored and is restricted to the dorsal surface, where the minute black pigment cells form stippled streaks and blotches.
As in other Planoceridae the mouth is about median, the male copulatory apparatus is directed backward, and in common with other species of the genus Flanocera the nuchal tentacles are located about one-foiu-th of the body length from the anterior end.
Around the bases of each there is a group of large eyes, while the intermediate brain region is occupied by the smaller voriety which forms two irregular clusters.
The digestive system presents no especially peculiar features.
Theexternal mouth, mesially situated, leads into the much plicated, pharynx (PI.
XIV, fig.
1), whose length nearly equals one-fourth that of the body.
Laterally it is produced into four pairs of diverticula, of which the anterior may be somewhat indistinct.
Directly above, that is dorsal to the outer mouth, the opening from the pharynx leads into the main division of the gut, which in turn communicates with five pairs of intestinal branches.
These are invariably empty and relatively slender and practically of even calibre throughout their entire extent.
Their general arrangement and method of branching may be seen in fig.
1, which likewise shows frequent anastomoses, Lang* states that when these occur they appear most clearly in the young ^ Die Polydaden, Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel, 1884.
10 individuals, and that in the sexually mature animals they are very seldom seen.
Evidently the present species is one of the exceptions, since in fig.
1, which represents an animal with the ovaries barely developed, the anastomoses are not so numerous as in a larger individual where the female reproductive system is fully functional.
The brain holds a position about one-fourth the length of the animal from the anterior end of the body, and after treatment with equal parts of formaldehyde and glycerine may be seen with the greatest distinctness to originate two extensive networks, the well-known ventral one and a dorsal system which has, so far as I know, never been seen in whole mounts, though it was traced with considerable accuracy by Lang from a study of sections.
The ventral set of nerves develops from the ventral half of the brain by means of several pairs of nerves which have essentially the same origin as those of P. graffii (Lang's fig.
4, PI.
31).
These form an extensive meshwork over the entire under surface of the animal, conforming in general to the plan of P. grajfii, though the main fibres are more delicate and their branching is not so regular.
The dorsal system may be clearly seen with the naked eye to form an extensive network over the entire dorsal surface of the body.
Its fibres are generally smaller than those of the ventral side and the branching occurs with less frequency, thus forming meshes of larger size.
Three pairs of nerves give it origin, their position and mode of branching being sufficiently well shown in fig.
2 to require no further comment.
In the most favorable specimen the testes are seen to be scattered over the ventral surface, with the exception of the area bounded by_ the two innermost longitudinal nerves.
Under low magnification their arrangement suggests that they and the delicate canals (vasa ■efferentia) leading from them form an anastomosing system, and in certain favorable situations, and especially in sections, it is possible to demonstrate that such is actually the case.
These minor canals combine to form the vasa deferentia, which usually extend anteriorly as well as posteriorly on each side from their T-shaped union with the single branch extending inward to the midline, but in the present species an anterior division has never been discovered.
Throughout its entire extent each vas deferens is a moderately convoluted canal which may form a slight anastomosis at some point, as is shown in fig.
1.
The tube resulting from the fusion of the vasa deferentia in the midline passes at once into the small yet muscular seminal vesicle (fig.
5) which is somewhat elliptical in form.
From here the canal passes slightly to the left in order to skirt the p-aiiular gland, and then by a fairly direct route leads into the bases of the copulatory organ.
A short distance from its entrance into this last-named organ it combines with the short duct from the granular gland.
The copulatory apjiaratus is a cylindrical body of comparatively large size, occupying the midline and all the available space between the body walls.
Its inner third is spongy in character and is penetrated by a single canal, the ductus ejaculatorius, which continues to the exterior.
The remaining two-thirds, constituting the eversible portion, is provided with powerful muscular walls and is lined with a multitude of spines which belong to three distinct classes (fig.
5).
Those adjoining the outer opening, and consequently basally situated when the penis is protruded, appear in sections to be at least eight in ninnber.
Of these two are of large size, hook-like (fig.
6), and are clearly seen in surface views to be symmetrically disposed on each side of the midline.
The other six, or possibly eight, are considerably smaller, less curved, and although not clearly visible in surface views appear likewise to be symmetrically disposed a short distance within the external opening.
The second type of spine is the smallest and the most abundant and occurs throughout the greater part of the penis.
Each is somewhat spindle-shaped and the free end is slightly hooked (fig.
3).
Toward the inner end of the eversible portion this type of spine shades into others of similar form, but of a greater length and of a somewhat more slender appearance.
At the extreme inner end, the tip of the fully extended organ, these slender spines become larger and more highly cuticularized, and their distal halves assume the brownish yellow tint of the first type.
Among these are several larger, toothed spines which are represented in fig.
C. Lang maintains that each of the spines in Planocera graffii is merely a modified epithelial cell, and judging from his figure (fig.
4, PI.
10) all are of the same character and are similar to the smallest type in the present species.
While this view appears plausible at first sight, there are reasons for believing that it does not express the true state of affairs in PL hawaiiensis.
Certainly it cannot be held that the huge spines of the first and third types are each a modified epithehal cell.
On the other hand each presents the appearance of being a cuticularized papilla, possibly covered with many epithelial cells, though no cell structure now exists, and penetrated by a connective tissue core which clearly shades basalwards into the unmodified filjrous substance of the penis.
Furthermore, while each of the smaller spines may be the pro<luct of a single cell, there is little indeed in the adult condition to indicate such an origin.
Sections show that they are merely projections on transverse cuticularized ridges which encircle the inner wall of the' organ.
As usual the ovaries are dorsally placed, and the tubes leading fromthem join with the uteri which are well defined a short distance anterior to the mouth.
From this point they extend backward, fuse in the midline and form a single duct which passes dorsally into the egg canal.
Distal to this last-named union the egg canal extends posteriorly for a short distance and enlarges slightly to form the small accessory sacOn the other hand the egg tube passes backward, enlarges slightly tO' form the shell chamber, beyond which it becomes continuous with the bursa copulatrix.
This is a thick-walled, cone-shaped organ whose inner walls are developed into well-defined rugoe almost cuticular in^ appearance.
The following brief description will serve to distinguish this species from other knowm forms.
Planocera hawaiiensis sp.
nov.
Body tolerably consistent, broadly elliptical or circular.
Length of largest specimen 39 mm., width 33 mm.
Color wholly lacking or limited to faint, black blotches and streaks on dorsal surface.
Nuchal tentacles at end of first fourth of body length ; bases surrounded by eyes about twice the size of those of the intermediate area, which form two groups, the greater number in front of the brain.
Five lateral and one anterior intestinal branches which are united by frequent anastomoses.
Testes and uniting tubes form an anastomosing system.
Penis lined with three species of spines or hooks, several being of large size.
Bursa large, accessory sac relatively small.
Auau Channel, Hawaii (Station 3,876), 28-43 fathoms.
Explanation of Plate XIV, Fig.
1.
— Planocera hawaiiensis, ventral view showing digestive and reproductive' systems.
Fig.
2.
— Dorsal nervous system.
Fig.
3.
— One of the spines of the penis (for position see fig.
5).
Fig.
4.
— Tentacles, eyes and brain.
Fig.
5.
— Central portion of the reproductive system.
B, bursa copulatrix; G^ granular gland ; P, penis.
Fig.
6.
— Large penis spine (for position see fig.
5).
o r r n H o o X PI E Q r r i c 2 c rr K K ^'*''**4^g,;^^iJE.4ia£=-^* .-lyfT'T* lyt!^ ^., .^ Q r ►J o z Q p: :r h m o r r K H o :^ Q X p] 53 PLATE IX.
cM GILLETTE ON CHERMES.
PLATE X. C/^ GILLETTE ON CHERMES.
pr.eom NELSON ON onOPHiLus CONKLINI.
PLATE XIII, 19 % V 23 •IP,,.c.
t(d i>V c </!
<l .
.L ri c ql d. r 1 J ines (l.l.ni.
I '^'-o.l.
27 28 c.rls.
o-S4^ AW,, NELSON ON DINOPHIL r > o o > April 2.
Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty-seven persons present.
John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., made a communication on the scisntific appUcation of ecology in the wet and dry cultivation of plants.
(No abstract.)
April 16.
Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty-three persons present.
Henry Skinner, M.D., spoke of the variations in the life-history of insects.
(No abstract.)
Richard H. Harte, M.D., was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed : 11 NOTE ON THE GENUS KXJHLIA.
• BY THEODORE GILL.
The genus Diiles was first named by Cuvier and Valenciennes in 1829. in the Histoire Naturelle des Poissons (III, 111), for fishes resembling Ceyitropristes, but distinguished by the presence of only six brancliiostegal rays.
The genus is divided into two sections, the first with three points to the opercle and an undivided dorsal (as in Centropristes) and the second with two points to the opercle and an emarginate dorsal.
The name has been restricted to the first section for many years, and for the second section (not related to Centropristes) the generic name Kuhlia, given by Gill in 1861, has been used.
Recently, however, Mr. Henry W. Fowler, in the Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906 (p. 510), has contended that Kuhlia "is superseded b}^ Dules Cuvier,, Rhgne Animal, ed.
2, II, 1829, p. 147 (type Centropomus rupestris Lacepede by first species)."
Cuvier in the Regne Animal especially refers, in a footnote, to the "Dules auriga Cuv.
et Val., Ill, li," etc., and that work was published in advance of the Regne Animal.
In accordance with Mr. Fowler's own principles, then, Kuhlia should be retained as well as the family name Kuhliidce, and not Dules and Dideidw (or Dulidce).
Mr. Fowler also remarks that "the specific name of the species generally known as Kuhlia malo should be " Dules mato Lesson, Voy.
aut.
Mond.
Coquille, Zool, III, 1830 (March 22, 1828) ,i p. 223, thus having priority over Dules malo Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., VII, 1831,. p.
360."
Inasmuch, however, as Lesson, at the place cited, especially quotes"Dules malo Cuv., Poiss., t. VII, p. 479," it is obvious that the volume in question (VII) must have been set up and published before the description by Lesson was even in print, notwithstanding the dates of the title-pages.
It may be added that the proper indigenous Tahitian name of the Kuhlia appears to have been Mato and not Malo, and Cuvier's name may have resulted from a typographical error, in which case Kuhlia mato would be the correct form.
1 It is not e\ident what is meant by the date "March 22, 1828 "j certainly the volume of the Coquille could not have been published then.
NON-SALTATORIAL AND ACRIDOID ORTHOPTERA FROM SAPUCAY, PARAGUAY.
BY JAMES A. G. REIIN.
The following records and descriptions arc based on an extensive series of specimens collected by Mr. W. T. Foster and now forming part of the collection of Mr. Morgan Hcbard, of Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia.
Considerable work has already been done on the Orthopterous fauna of Sapucay, but an idea of the richness of this region in species may be formed when w^e consider that in addition to the number already recorded seven new ones are here described.
Foiupapers have been published bearing wholly or in the greater part on the Orthoptera of Sapucay/ all of which have been of great assistance to me in studying this large series of specimens.
One of the first of these papers treated of a small collection secured by Mr. Hebard from Sapucay, the results proving of such interest that he immediately endeavored to secm"e a more representative collection, an effort well repaid by the magnificent series of specimens available for study.
In many cases notes on the variability of series, both in size and coloration, have been given, while comparisons with available material from adjacent regions have frequently furnished information worthy of record.
Species which are here recorded from Sapucay for the first time are preceded by an asterisk.
The Tettigonidse (Locustidse) and Gr3dlielae of this collection will be the subject of a future contribution.
The author wishes to thank Mr. Hebard for the opportunity to study this collection, a considerable representation of which has been generously presented to the Academy.
FORFICULID^.
APTERYGIDA West wood.
Apterygida linearis (Eschscholtz).
1 9 .
November, 1902.
* Rehn, J.A.G.
Records of some Paraguayan Orthoptera, with the Description of a New Genus and Species.
Ent.
News, XVI, pp.
.37-42.
• Caudell, A. N. On a Collection of Non-Saltatorial Orthoptera from Paraguay.
Journ.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc, XII, pp.
179-lSS.
Bruner, L. S\'noptic List of Parafniavan Acrididae, with Descriptions of New Forms.
Proc.
U. S. Xat.
Mus., XXX.
pp.
613-694.
CmidelU A .
N. The Locustidse and GrvUidtc (Katydids and Crickets) collected by W. T. Foster in Paraguay.
Proc.
U.
'S.
Nat.
Mus., XXX, pp.
235-244.
BLATTID^.
PSEUDOMOPIN.^.
ISCHNOPTERA Burmeister.
Isohnoptera vilis Saussure.
1869.
I[schnoptera] vilis Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XXI, p. 112.
[Argentine Pampas.]
9 6^.
February, March and October, 1902; January to March, 1905.
In several of these specimens the reddish lateral margins of the pronotum are less pronounced than in others.
Isohnoptera brasiliensis Brunner.
1865.
/[schnoptera] brasiliensis Brunner, Nouv.
Syst.
Blatt., p. 130.
[Brazil.]
2 d^.
April and May, 1902.
These individuals are somewhat smaller than the measurements given by Brunner, but in other respects are typical of the species.
NYCTIBORIN.E.
NYCTIBORA Burmeister.
♦Nyctibora vestita Saussure.
1864.
Paratr[opes] vestita Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XVI, p. 308.
[Brazil.]
1 d", 1 9 .
December, 1904; March, 1905.
This species was originally synonymized with N. crassicornis Burmeister by Brunner, a proceeding which seems to the author not exactly justified by the published descriptions at least.
Biurmeister's crassicornis appears, from the description given by Brunner, to be a larger species without the very distinct single central blotch on the pronotum; Saussure's vestita, on the other hand, has the median spot distinct.^ The size of crassicornis given by Brunner shows that the pronotum was larger by at least one millimeter in both directions than in the available material.
The specimens in hand have the median patch on the pronotum solid, without sign of division, and somewhat resembling that of A^ omissa Brancsik ^ from Catamarca, Ai-gentina, though more rounded and not as transverse.
The anal vein of the tegmen is also finely lined with black, in addition to the discoidal vein and sutural margin.
* M^m.
Mex.
Blatt., p. 64. '
Jahresheft Naturwissen.
Ver.
Trencsiner Comitates, Trencsen, XXIV, p. 186, tab.
Ill, fig.
1, la and b. EPILAMPRIN.E.
PARATROPES Serville.
*Paratropes elegans (Burmeister).
is.N.
IVi[orn.
'^pis] clcganii Burmeister, Handb.
d.
Entom., Bd.
II, Abth.
II, pt.
I, p. 493.
[Probably Surinam.]
1.
6".
February, 1905.
This specimen differs from Brunner's interpretation * of the species in that the Hmbs are solid black, the coxae finely margined with pale yellowish, the face without the transverse line dorsad of the labrum, and the antennse with a narrow annulus instead of having the terminal portion all yellowish.
When compared with the descriptions of other species of the genus the individual in hand agrees closer with that of elegans, differing in the color characters here given.
EPILAMPRA Burmeister.
♦Epilampra brasiliensis (Fabricius).
1775.
[Blatta] brasiliensis Fabricius, Syst.
Entom., p. 272.
[Brazil.]
1 d^, 1 9.
February and March, 1905.
This species has also been recorded from San Pedro Province, Paraguay.
PANCHLORIN.E.
PANCHLORA Burmeister.
*Panchlora hyalina (Stoll).
1813.
[Blatta] hyalina Stoll, Natuur.
Afbeeld-Besch.
Kakkerlakken, p. 5, 14, pi.
Ill d, fig.
12.
[No locality.]
1 6".
March, 1905.
This name appears to be applicable to the species generally known as Panchlora viridis Burmeister.
MANTIDiE.
; MANTIN.E.
ACONTISTA Saussure.
Acontista bimaculata Saussure.
1870.
A[contista] bimaculata Saussure, Mittheil.
Schweiz.
Entom.
Gesell., Ill, p. 229.
[Brazil.]
9 cJ', 4 9 .
February and March, 1905.
As the female of this species has never been described the following diagnosis may prove of service.
Form robust, as is usual in females of this genus.
Head with the occipital outline slightly arcuate, almost straight mesad, more arcuate * Nouv.
Syst.
Blatt., p. 150. laterad, the prominent lateral vertical sulci cutting the occipital outline; ocelli disposed as in the male but much smaller; facial scutellum shaped as in the male; antennce slender, subfiliform, not exceeding the head and pronotum in length.
Pronotum shaped very much as in the male, but shorter and consequently with the dilation extending more caudad, and the constricted caudal section shorter.
Tegmina short, but very slightly longer than the pronotum, costal margin evenly rounded, apex subrectangulate, sutural margin slightly arcuate in the distal two-thirds, rather abruptly and obliquely curved on the proxunal third; stigma distinct.
Abdomen strongly depressed, expanded; supra-anal plate broadly and roundly trigonal ; cerci slightly surpassing the apex of the plate.
Cephalic limbs very robust; coxse hardly exceeding the pronotum in length, subquadrate in section; femora slightly longer than the coxse.
General color pale apple green; eyes pale walnut brown.
Tegmen with the stigma bistre.
Wing brick red, the greater part of the marginal section of the caudal area rich glossy blue black, the transverse veins hyaline and touched with brick red.
Measurements.
Length of body, 23 mm.
Length of pronotum, 6 " Greatest wddth of pronotum, 3.5 " Length of tegmen, 5.5 '' Greatest breadth of abdomen, 8.5 " Length of cephalic femur, 7 " Two males and one female are washed more or less strongly with brownish.
This species has also been definitely recorded from the Provinces of Goyaz and Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
BRUNNERIA Saussure.
1869.
Brvnneria Saussure, Mittheil.
Schweiz.
Entom.
Gesell., Ill, pp.
5S, 71.
Type.
— B. subaptera Saussure.
Brunneria brasiliensis Saussure.
1870.
B[runneria] brasiliensis Saussure, Mittheil.
Schweiz.
Entom.
Gesell., Ill, p. 240.
[Brazil.]
8 d", 14 ?
.
February and March, 1905.
This series shows that the species is moderately uniform in size and possesses w^ell-marked green and brown phases in the female, the thorax and abdomen varying in accord with the general phase.
brasiliensis.
subaptera.
73 mm.
90.5 mm.
94 mm .
.
33.5 " 29.5+ " 48 .
.
24.5 " 31 32.5 " .
.
35 37.2 " 40.5 " .
.
15.8 '' 18.6 " 19 " .
.
8 12 15.5 " 1907.]
KATUR.\L SCIENCES OF PIIIL.\DELPHIA.
155 *Bruuneria aubaptera Saussnrc.
1809.
B[runnena] subaptera Saussure, Mittheil.
Schweiz.
Entotn.
Gesell., Ill, p. 71.
[Argentine Pampas.]
2 6".
March, 1905.
These two specimens are larger than the same sex of brasiliensis, with the ocelH smaller and the antennae and cerci longer.
One specimen (March 5) has the character of the cerci and antennae more marked than the other, and measurements of both specimens with those of an average male of brasilietisis are here given.
Length of body, .
Length of antenna, .
Length of pronotum, Length of tegmen, .
Length of cephalic femur, Length of cere us, This species has been recorded from the north of Patagonia and the Pampas, and specifically from Bahia Blanca, Argentina.
A female individual from Carcarafia, Argentina, determined by Prof. Bruner as B. brasiliensis, is clearly referable to subaptera, the shape of the supraanal plate and the length of the cerci being typical of this species, COPTOPTEEYX Saussure.
1869, Coptopteryx Saussure,'.Mittheil.
Schweiz.
Entom.
Gesell., Ill, pp.
56, 66.
Type, as selected by Kirby, C. claraziana Saussure = C. crenaticollis ( Blanch ard).
♦Coptopteryx crenaticollis (Blanchard).
1851.
Mantis crenaticollis Blanchard, in Gay, Hist.
Fis.
Polit.
de Chile, Zool., VI, p. 22.
[Chile.]
2 6".
February, 1905, These specimens are clearly referable to this species, of which a female from Carcarafia, Argentina, has also been examined.
GiglioTos has recorded the species from San Pedro Province, Paraguay.
♦Coptopteryx gayi (Blanchard).
1851.
Mantis Gayi Blanchard, in Gav, Hist.
Fis.
Polit.
de Chile, Zool., VI, p. 21.
[Chile.]
3 d", 4 9 .
December, 1904; January, 1905.
This species can easily be recognized in the female by the elongate pronotum, and separated from C. argentina by the longer, slenderer median and caudal limbs and weaker cephalic limbs, while C. crenaticollis is distinct]}^ smaller and comparatively more robust.
The male, on the other hand, bears a very considerable resemblance to that of C. argentina, and might easily be considered only a brownish specimen of that species.
However, a close examination discloses several very good characters to separate the two species, such as the more compressed shaft of the pronotum, the narrower supra-coxal dilation and weaker cephalic limbs.
All the specimens examined are of various shades of brown, one male having the limbs clear green, while one male and one female have the same parts touched with the same color.
A female specimen from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, received from Dr. Saussure and determined by him as C. gayi, is distinctly smaller than Sapucay females and has the margins of the pronotum with somewhat heavier spines, but does not appear separable otherwise.
The measurements of a Sapucay female and of the Rio Grande do Sul individual are as follows : Sapucay.
Rio Grande do Sul.
Length of body, 80.5 mm.
62 mm.
Length of pronotum, 25.5 " 20 " Greatest width of pronotum, .... 7 " 5.5 " Length of tegmen, 13.2 " 11.5 " Length of cephalic femur, 19 " 15.5 " Coptopteryx argentina (Burmeister).
1864.
M[antis] argentina Burmeister, Berlin Entom.
Zeitsch., ^^[II, p. 208.
[Argentina between Buenos Ayres and Mendoza.]
7 d", 10 $ .
December, 1904; January to March, 1905.
This series is rather uniform in size and quite so in coloration.
PHOTINA Burmeister.
1838.
Photina Burmeister, Handb.
d.
Entom., Bd.
II, Abth.
II, pt.
I, p. 531.
Type.
— P. vitrea Burmeister.
Photina brevis n. sp.
Type: c?
; Sapucay, Paraguay.
March 5, 1905.
(William Foster.)
[Hebard Collection.]
Very closely allied to P. vitrea Burmeister, but differing in the shorter pronotum and the more numerous rami of the discoidal vein of the wing.
Size medium; form moderately slender.
Head broad, trigonal, occipital outline moderately arcuate; ocelli large, placed in a broad triangle, apex ventrad; eyes moderately projecting laterad; facial scutellum strongly transverse, dorsad with a median arcuation, sinuate laterad, ventrad margin slightly concave; antennae slightly exceeding the head and pronotum in length, sub-moniliform.
Pronotum with the cephalic section moderately expanded, not constricted cephalad 1907.]
157 but rounding narrowly from the greatest expansion to the cephahc margin; shaft slightly exceeding the expanded portion in length, moderately narrowed, slightly expanded caudad; margias unarmed, dorsum without distinct carina.
Tegmen large, hyaline except for the semi-opacpie costal field, in shape elongate-ovate, the greatest width at the distal third, costal and sutural margins arcuate proximad and distad, apex narrowly rounded; median vein furcate with each arm again furcate; discoidal vein furcate proximad, the caudal arm again furcate; principal axillary veins three in number; stigma very weak, linear, crossing the discoidal vein.
Wing about tw^ce as long as broad, costal margin straight in the proximal two-thirds, strongly arcuate in the distal third, apex slightly acute, narrowly rounded, caudal margin of the projecting portion of the anterior field nearly straight, oblique; humeral vein furcate near the base, the rami parallel for the greater part of their length ; median vein furcate near the apex ; discoidal vein trifurcate, the first being almost at the base, the second nearly mesad, the third about the proximal third; axillary vein bifurcate, the first not far from the base, the other near the apex.
Abdomen rather slender; supra-anal plate short, trigonal; subgenital plate moderately produced and provided distad with two small styles; cerci slender, acute, moderately exceeding the subgenital plate.
Cephalic coxa about two-thirds the length of the pronotum; cephalic femur somewhat shorter than the pronotum, rather slender, armed with six spines on the external margin (counting the genicular spine) and tv.
'elve of two sizes on the internal ; tibia slightly more than half the Fig.
1.
— Photina brcvis n. sp.
Tegmen and ■nnng of male type.
(X 2.)
length of the femur, armed on the external margin with thirteen spines and twelve on the internal.
Median and caudal limbs rather slender.
General color pale apple green becoming weak parrot green on the abdomen.
Eyes walnut brown ; antennse cinnamon ; ocelli glassy crimson, their peduncles rather yellowish.
Cephalic femora with the larger spines on their internal margins marked proximad with blackish, the proximal section of the femora also with two circular blackish spots on the ventral portion of the internal face ; tibiae washed with yellowish.
Tegmina with the semi-opaque costal area weak apple green, remainder F" o^ph f hyaline but the nerves of the same greenish.
Wings brevis n. sp.
with the costal margin washed with greenish, the Dorsal view of remainder hyaline, the nerves greenish as in the male prone^ ' ^ turn.
(X 3.)
tegmina.
Measurements.
Length of body, 41 mm.
Length of pronotum, 10.5 Greatest width of pronotum, 3.5 Length of tegmen, 35 Greatest width of tegmen, 11.2 Length of cephalic femur, 9 Length of caudal femur, 11.2 Two females have also been examined, one taken in February, the other in March, 1905.
These individuals differ in no essential particulars from the type.
PARAMUSONIA Rehn.
1894.
Musonia Saussure and Zehntner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 64.
(Not of Stal, 1877.)
1904.
Paramusonia Rehn, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXVII, p. 567.
Type.
— Thespis cuhensis Saussure.
Paramusonia livida Serville.
1839.
Thespis livida Serville, Orthopt^res, p. 172.
[Brazil.]
Six 6^.
April and May, 1902; February and March, 1905.
These specimens are very slightly larger than the measurements given by Serville: "Long 1 pouce au moins, non compris la lame abdominale .... prothorax long de trois lignes au moias."
Several of the individuals seen about equal the length of body of this species given by Caudell.^ In all the specimens the tips of the tegmina fall in repose at least a millimeter short of the tips of the wings.
CREOBOTRIN.^:.
ACANTHOPS Servillo.
1831.
Acanthops Ser\ille, Ann.
Sci.
Nat., XXII, p. .52.
Type.
— Mantis fuscifolia Olivier = MmUis sinuata Stoll.
Acanthops sinuata (Stoll).
ISl.S.
[Mantis] sinuata Stoll, Xatuur.
Afbeeld.
Besch.
Spooken, pp.
12, 77, pi.
IV, fig.14.
[Surinam.]
8 c?, 10 ?
.
November, 1904, to March.
1905.
This series shows some variation in size in both sexes, and also in the shade of the general coloration.
Some individuals are decidedly blackish brown and others are practically ferruginous, the average, however, being darker.
The tegmina of the females in no case exceed twenty-four millimeters in length.
VATIX-E. OXYOPSIS Caudell.
1809.
Oxyops Saussure, Mittheil.
Schweiz.
Entom.
Gesell., Ill, pp.
56, 66.
(Xot of Schonherr, 1826.)
1904.
Oxyopsis Caudell, Journ.
N. Y. Ent.
See, XII, p. 184.
Type.
— 0. rubicunda (Stoll).
*Oxyopsis lobeter" n. kp.
Type: 9 ; Sapucay, Paraguay, January 26, 1905.
(William Foster.)
[Hebard Collection.]
Allied to 0. media and obtusa (Stal) from Brazil, but with the tegmina and wings much longer, the limbs also somewhat longer, while the general size is about the same.
The proportions of the exposed section of the wings is as in obtusa, and the eyes are rectangulate laterad as in that species.
The relationship is apparently closer to obtusa than to media.
General size rather large.
Head depressed, very broadly trigonal, occipital outline straight, cephalic section of the occiput flattened, except for four spaced longitudinal depressions, and forming an obtuse angle with the portion of the head ventrad of the insertion of the antennae; ocelli very small, well spaced in a broad unequal triangle; facial scutellum transverse, the dorsal margin straight mesad and * Journ.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc, XII.
p. 184. '
Auf3rfTr/p^ destroyer.
160 [April, obliquely emarginate laterad, ventral margin very slightly concave; eyes produced laterad, rectangulate, sub-mammilliform.
Pronotum '■\ / elongate, the collar contained slightly more than three times in the length of the shaft, supra-coxal dilations moderate, the collar hardly constricted cephalad of the expansion; margins serrato-dentate, the serrations becoming fewer and smaller caudad, shaft carinate throughout its length, the carina weak mesad.
Abdomen considerably depressed, broad, Tegmen broad, subequal, the width being contained two and a half times in the length; costal margin nearly straight, slightly rounded proximad, obliquely rounded distad, sutural margin nearly straight, apex rather broadly rounded; costal field very broad, in its widest section two-fifths the width of the entire tegmen, costal veins about twelve in number, strongly oblique and curved toward the apex in the distal section ; humeral vein furcate near the apex; median vein with two rami ; discoidal vein with two rami the caudal of which is furcate; stigma distinct, irregular.
Wing with the greatest width contained about twice in the length, the portion extending beyond the tip of the tegmen when in repose being trigonal and broader than long.
Cephalic coxa nearly threefifths as long as the pronotum, all the margins serrato-spinose, the ventral margin with spines of two different sizes; cephalic femur nearly threefourths the length of the pronotum, slender, armed on the external margin with four spines and seven large and nine small ones on the internal margin, Fig.
3.
— Oxyopsis lobeter n. sp.
view of type.
(X l|.)
Dorsal Fig.
4.
— Oxyopsis lobeter n. sp.
Cephalic view of head.
(X 2.)
a median line of small tubercles are present on the proximal portion of the ventral surface; cephalic tibia not quite half the length of the femur, armeel with ten spines on the external margin and sixteen on the internal.
Median limbs rather slender, of moderate length; caudal limbs very considerably longer than the median.
General color dull olive green, touched in many places with bice green and jjarrot green.
Head touched with yellowish, the eyes seal brown.
Proiiotum with considerable brownish on the shaft.
Tegmina passing from nearly bottle green proximad and on a section of the costal area through pea green to apple green in the distal half of the discoidal area and oil green in the costal section; hyaline intersticas limited to the pea green area and the apple gi-een section immediately adjoining it in the discoidal field ; stigma touched with brown.
Wings with the exposed section coriaceous and opaque oil green; remainder of the wings, except a narrow greenish touch along the costal margin, hyaline with the transverse veins rather broadly touched with gamboge yellow.
Cephalic femora and tibiae with the principal spines almost entirely blackish-brown, the others touched with the same color.
]\Iedian and caudal limbs with the femora mars brown, the tiljise and tarsi oil green.
Measurements.
Length of body, 61.5 mm.
Length of prouotum, 24.5 Greatest width of pronotum, 5 " Length of tegmen, 32 Greatest width of tegmen, 12 Greatest width of costal field, 5 " Length of cephalic femur, 17.2 Length of median femur, 15 Length of caudal femur, 19 A paratypic female, taken December 20, 1904, is essentially similar to the type though slightly larger.
The color pattern of the tegmina is not as marked in it as in the type and the hyaline interstices more numerous and extensive.
PHASMIDJE.
BACTERIINiE.
CEROYS Serville.
♦Ceroys coronatus (Thunberg).
1815.
P[hasma] coronata Thunberg, Mem.
I' Acad.
Imp.
Sci.
St.
Pet^rsb., V, p. 299.
[Xo locality.]
1 9 .
December, 1904.
As far as the brief original description goes this specimen appears to represent Thimberg's species.
In the absence of any recent information on Thimberg's original specimen of this species, the individual in hand may justly be considered the same as coronata until further knowledge disproves or substantiates the association.
Measurements of the Sapucay Specimen.
Length of body, 106 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4.5 Length of mesonotum, 27.5 Length of metanotum (including median segment), .
.
.
18 " Length of abdomen, 49.5 " Length of cephalic femur, 20.5 " Length of median femur, 15.5 " Length of caudal femur, 21 " CLITUMNIN.E.
STELEOXIPHUS' n. gen.
Type.
— S. catastates n. sp.
A member of the Clitumninae and related to Paraleptynia and Ceratiscus Caudell, both described from Sapucay.
The genus Paraleptynia was based on a male individual, while a female is the only available representative of the new genus.
The antennse are shorter than in Paralepttjnia and with some of the segments of different proportions, while the general slender form agrees with that genus.
The chief character of Ceratiscus, which was based on a female, is the elongate opercule which is also present in Steleoxiphus, although the form of the latter is by no means as robust, being slender as in Paraleptynia with the limbs not lobed or serrate.
The character of the antennae is more similar to that of Ceratiscus than of Paraleptynia.
Form very elongate; surface glabrous.
Head with the eyes very small ; antennae very little longer than the head and pronotum, proximal joint over twice as long as broad, strongly depressed laterad and proximad, second joint more rounded and hardly half the length of the proximal, third joint similar to the second but slightly longer, the fourth to sixth joints similar to the second and from the seventh they evenly increase in length distad.
Mesonotum and metanotum (including median segment) subequal in length; median segment longer than broad, Subgenital opercule produced into a compressed, elongate, hastate process.
Limbs slender, unarmed. '
^Trfkri^ post ; f '^ttf , sword.
1907.1 163 (William Foster.)
*Steleoxiphu8 catastatee* n. sp.
Type: ?
; Sapiicay, Paraguay.
^larch 5, 1905 [Hebard Collection.]
Size medium.
Head slender, subparallel, the caudal width contained about two and a half times in the length; occiput w'ith a very fine median longitudinal impressed line and a lateral one extending caudad from each eye; eyes subcircular, strongly flattened when viewed dorsad; ocelli distinct but small and placed in a large triangle between and immediately caudad of the antennae.
Pronotum slender, slightly compressed mesad, a distinct transverse and a less distinct longitudinal impressed line present.
Mesonotum nearly five times the length of the pronotum, regularly but slightly expanding caudad.
Metanotum about equal to the mesonotum in length, subequal in width except for a very slight caudal expansion; median segment about a third as long as the remainder of the metanotum, and in its own length nearly twice its width.
Abdomen with the proximal seven segments distinctly longitudinal and increasing in length from the first to the sixth, the seventh being shorter than the sixth and about equal to the first ; eighth and ninth segments subequal, each hardly two-thirds the length of the seventh, fifth to eighth segments tectate, ninth tectate and carinate dorsad; supra-anal plate very small, trigonal; cerci simple, styliform, about two and a half times the length of the supra-anal plate; subgenital opercule strongly compressed, the lateral surfaces conFig.
5.
— Steleoxiphus catastates n. gen. and sp.
Dorsal \iew of type.
Natural size.
* KaraffT.TT^/r, an establisher.
cave, apex acute, surface finely marked with longitudinal linear series of minute punctures.
Cephalic femora equal to the length Fig.
e.—Steleoxiphus catastates n. gen. o^ mesonotum and half of the and sp.
Lateral \iew of apex of metanotum, proximal flexure disabdomenof tj-pe.
(x 2.)
..• x i i. n • j f ^-u tinct but small, remamder oi the femur multicarinate; cephalic tibise slightly shorter than the femora; cephalic tarsi with the metatarsus distinctly longer than the remaining joints.
Median femora about equal to the metanotum in length; median tibise somewhat shorter than the femora; median tarsi with the metatarsus very slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Caudal femora extending to the middle of the fifth abdominal segment; tibiiie distinctly but not very greatly shorter than the femora; tarsi with the metatarsus about equal to the remaining tarsal joints.
General color apple green, becoming oil green on the limbs and touched with ochraceous on the ventral section of the head, and also on the presternum, cephalic and caudal sections of the mesosternum and cephalic section of the metasternum and a narrow ventral median line on the abdomen is of the same color.
The subgenital opercule and cephalic tarsi are chiefly pale ochraceous, while the ochraceous on the caudal section of the mesosternum is overlaid with a brownish spot.
Eyes vinaceous-cinnamon, antennae ochraceous.
Measurements.
Length of body, 97 mm.
Length of antenna, ... + 8.1 " Length of pronotum, 3.2 " Length of mesonotum, 17.2 '' Length of metanotum (including median segment), ... 18 " Length of median segment, 4.5 " Length of abdomen 42.5 " Length of subgenital opercule, 24.5 " Length of cephalic femur, 26 " Length of median femur, 17.8 '' Length of caudal femur, 22 " The type is unique.
There is a possibility that this species is the female of Paraleptynia fosteri Caudefl, known only from the male, but it does not appear right or proper to assume that such strikingly different antennal characters exist in the sexes of the same species.
The possibility exists, however ami it remains for further collections and observations to accurately establish the true relationship of the two forms.
PSEUDOPHASMIX/E.
OLCYPHIDES Griirmi.
*01cyphides fasciatus (iniy.
l>.8."i.
P[hasma] fascialum Grav, Svnop.
Spec.
In.s.
Yarn.
Plia.sni., p. 24.
[Brazil.]
1 9 .
December, 15)04.
This specimen answers the description of the species cjuite well.
As no measurements were given in the original description the following may be of interest: Length of body, 71 mm.
Length of antenna, 68 " Length of pronotum 4 " Length of mesonotum, 7.2 " Length of tegmen, 5 " Length of wing, 44.5 " *01cyphides hopii (Cray).
1S35.
P[hasmo] Hopil Grav, Svnop.
Spec.
Ins.
Fani.
Plia.sin., p. 25.
[Brazil.]
I d".
February, 1902.
Wliether this specimen is the other sex of the species here called fasciatus or distinct cannot be positively determined from the material in hand.
It agrees quite well with the brief description of hopii, and differs from fasciatus, as here understood, in having a much smaller tegminal protuberance, lateral lines of yellowish present on the thorax and distinctly though narrowl}annulate antennae.
Whether these are specific or sexual characters remains to be determined.
ACRIDID^.
ACliYDIIX.K.
TETTIGIDEA Scudder.
Tettigidea multicostata Bolivar.
LSs7.
r['/^;/'</''"] "'"^''^os/o/o Bolivar.
Ann.
Soc.'Entom.
'Belff XXXI i> 299.
[Brazil.]
• ^ > •• i • 9 9.
February and March, 1905.
This series has been compared with representatives from Caiza, l>olivia, Salta and Tucuman, Argentina.
PBoscopix.i:.
CEPHALOC(EMA Sirvillc.
CephaloccBma oostulata Burmeister.
II c , 13 ?
.
November, 1901 ; Februarv and .ALarch, 1905.
12 The variation in size exliibited by this series, in addition to the sUght variation in the comparative length of the rostrum, would at first sight appear to be due to the presence of two or more species.
However, no line of demarcation in size or in the number of tibial spines, the latter extremely variable in individuals, can be recognized, and for the present at least all are considered costulata.
The strength of the abdominal strigte is another character of variability in this material, and two of the female specimens appear to be what Bruner has provisionally called hurmeisteri.^ ACRIDIN.E.
The material belonging to this subfamily has been studied in two previous papers,^*^ the species being merely listed here, with any comments brought out by an examination of determinations in Prof. Bruner' s later paper {vide antea).
HYALOPTERYX Charpentier.
Hyalopteryx rufipennis Charpentier.
Bruner has described as H. spccularis ^^ the form referred by the author to Charpentier's species.
EUTRYXALIS Bruner.
*Eutryxali3 gracilis (Giglio-Tos).
TRUXALIS Fabricius.
Truxalis brevicomis (Limueus).
ORPHULA Stai.
Orphula pagana (Stai).
AMBLYTROPIDIA S»al.
Amblytropidia robusta Bruner.
The specimens referred with some little doubt to A. ferruginosa Stal by the author belong to Bruner's recently described species.
*Amblytropidia cbapadensis Rehn.
ORPHULINA Giglio-Tos.
Orphulina pulcbella Giglio-Tos.
» Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 619. '"
Notes on South American Grasshoppers of the Subfamily Acridinte (Acrididae), with Descriptions of New Genera and Species.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, pp.
371-391.
May, 1906.
Studies in South and Central American Acridinae (Orthoptera), with the Descriptions of a New Genus and Six New Species.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
10-50.
May 19, 1900.
^' Bruner's H. lameUipes from Sao Paulo, Brazil, in all probability equals H. aainus Rehn.
ORPHULELLA Gislio-Tos.
*Orphulella gracilis Gislio-Tos.
Orphulella punctata (De Gecr).
DICHROMORPHA Morse.
Dichromorpha auatralis Bnnier.
I'JOO.
D[ichro»wrpha] australis Bruner, Ace.
Gen. Spec.
Locusts Argent., p. 28.
[Carcaraiia, Argentina.]
1 d", 1 ?.
February, 1901.
TOXOPTERUS Bolivar.
Toxopterus miniatus Bolivar.
FENESTRA Cxiglio-Tcs.
Fenestra bohlsii CTi,glio-Tos.
AMBLYSCAPHEUS Bruner.
Amblyscapheus glaucipes (Rehn).
Staurorhectus glaucipes Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1900 p. 34 figs.
9 and 10.
May 19, 1906.
Amblyscapheiis lineatus Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mu.-., XXX, p 6.33 June 1906.
'2 The relationship of these two descriptions is obvious.
STAURORHECTUS Uiglio-Tos.
Staurorhectus longicornis Giglio-Tos. '
ISONYX Rehn.
*Isonyx paraguayensis Rflm.
EUPLECTROTETTIX Bruner.
Euplectrotettix ferrugineus Bruner.
SCYLLINA Stll.
^Scyllina brunneri (Giglio-Tos).
Scyllina brasiliensis (Bruner).
Scyllina conspersa (Bruner).
Scyllina varipes (Bruner).
(EDIPODIN.E.
C(ELOPTERNA sm.
1873.
Coelopterna Stal, Ofvers.
at" K. Vetensk.-.\kad.
Forhandlingar, XXX, No.
4, p. 53.
Type.
— Acrydium acuminatum De Geer.
"Received in Philadelpliia, June 6; probable exact date one or two days previous.
*Coelopterna acuminata (De Geer).
1773.
Acrydium acumiiiatum De Geer.
Mem.
I'Hist.
Ins., Ill, p. 501, pi.
XLII, fig.
10.
[Surinam.]
1 d".
January, 1903.
This peculiar species has been recorded from several localities in Paraguay.
No comparison has been made with Surinam material.
PYRGOMORPHIN^.
OSSA Giglio-Tos.
1894.
Ossa Giglio-To.s, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 15, pi.
fig.
2.
Type.
— 0. himaculata Giglio-Tos.
Ossa bimaculata Giglio-Tos.
1894.
0[.sso] bimaculata Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 15, pi.
fig.
2.
[Resistencia nel Chaco, Argentina.]
12 d", 12 9 .
December to March.
All of the female specimens are slightly, and some considerably, larger than the measurements of the type given by Giglio-Tos.
OMMEXECHA Serville.
1831.
Ommexecha Serville, Ann.
Sci.
Nat., XXII, p. 285.
Type.
— 0. virens Serville, ♦Ommexecha virens Serville.
1831.
Ommexecha virens Ser^alle, Ann.
Sci.
Nat., XXII, p. 286.
[Buerfos Ayres.]
4 9 .
May, 1902.
One of these specimens is distinctly true virens as far as color is concerned, the others apparently being Blanchard's 0. servillei, which probably is only a brown phase of virens.
The only other conclusion that can be reached from the material before me is, that servillei has two color phases represented in this series, distinct, however, from virens which should be retained as a poorly understood form.
This view does not appear as likely as the synonymy of servillei with virens.
No structural characters separate the two color forms as far as available material goes, the strength of asperities and ridges in this genus being subject to considerable variation.
Bruner has recorded the brown phase from Asuncion and San Bernardino, Paraguay, *Ommexecha germari Burmeister.
1838.
0[m7nexecha] German Burmeister, Handb.
d.
Entom., bd.
II, abtl;.
II, pt.
I, p. 655.
[Brazil.]
9 (5", 10 9 .
February and March, 1905; May, 1902.
Tliis series cxliibits sonic variation in size and length of the tegmina and wings, the two sexes sharing ahke in the same.
This species has also been recorded from Porto Allegre (Karsch) and Sfio T.eojtoldo (Bolivar), Rio Grande do Sid, Brazil.
LOCUSTIN.'E.
PKOCOLPIA stai.
1S73.
Procolpia Stiil, Ofv.
K. ^'ctcnsl<..-Akad.
Forhandl., 1873, Xo.
4, p. .52.
Type.
— Xiphicera emarginata Serville.
Procolpia minor Giglio-Tos.
189-4.
P[rocolpin] minor Giglio-Tos, BoUott.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 17.
[Colonia Risso, Rio Apa, Paraguay.]
1906.
Munatia australis Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mas., XXX, p. 644.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
8 d", 6 9 .
February and March, 1905.
On comparison of this series with the two descriptions cited above, it is very evident that both refer to the same species.
"\Miile not absolutely typical Procolpia in the form of the apex of the tegmina, the species is certainly nearer Procolpia emarginata than Munatia punctata, the type of the latter genus.
The form of the wing is distinctly that of Procolpia, and the apex of the tegmen in every specimen shows a slight oblique sutural truncation.
PRIONOLOPHA Stdl.
1873.
Prionolopha Stal, Recensio Urthopterorum, I, pp.
27, 44.
Type.
— Gryllus (Bulla) serratus Linnaeus.
Prionoloplia serrata (Linnreus).
1758.
[Gryllus (Bulla)] serratus Linna?us, Svst.
Nat., X ed., p. 427.
["Indiis."]
10 d^, 12 9 .
January to March, 1905.
These specimens exhibit some slight variation in size, and in the shade of the green base color and of the bars of the sides of the head and pronotum.
The latter are in some cases greenish yellow, in others pinkish, and again dull purplish much darker than the base color.
ALCAMENES Stdl.i' 1878.
Alcamenes Stal, Biliang till K. Sveuska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, V, No.
4, pp.
14,54.
Type.
— A. granulatus StM. "
Giglio-Tos's Prionolopha hrevipennis (Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anaf.
Comp.
Torino, XV, No.
377, p. 3) appears to be a member of this genua.
Alcamenes cristatus Bnincr.
1906.
Alcamenes cristatus Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 650.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
2 c?, 5 9 .
February and March, 1905.
As suggested by Bruner {supra, pp.
650-651) the genus Alcamenes is closely related to Prio?7oZop/?a, undoubtedly closer than it is to the genus Tropinotus.
TROPINOTUS Servillc.
1831 .
Tropinotus Serville, Ann.
Sci.
Nat., XXII, p. 272.
Included Gryllus serratus Fabr., T. discoideus and ohsoleius Serville.
The first was removed to Prionolopha in 1873, the third to Colpolopha the same year, and discoideus can be considered the type.
Tropinotus discoideus Serville.
1831.
Tropinotus discoideus Ser\'ille, Ann.
Sci.
Nat., XXII, p. 273.
[Brazil.]
11 d", 12 9 .
February and March, 1905.
This series contains a few specimens which have the lateral portions of the disk of the pronotum, the dorsum of the head and the anal field of the tegmina bright green.
The maculations of the tegmina are subject to a great amount of variation and in a few specimens are almost absent, but in the great majority are distinct though faint.
The presence or absence of the lateral apical spine on the caudal tibiae appears to be of little or no value to separate genera in this group, as it is not constantly present in the same species, and even may be present on one limb and absent on the other of the same individual.
Representatives of this species present this latter condition.
♦Tropinotus guarani n. sp.
Types: c?
and 9 ; Sapucay, Paraguay.
February 25 (d^), March 9, 1905 ( 9 ).
(William Foster.)
[Hebard Collection.]
Allied to T. regidaris Bruner, but differing in the hea\4er build, the less evenly arched pronotal crest, the broader disk of the pronotum, the slightly heavier limbs, shorter tegmina and the less regularly maculate character of the same.
Size medium; form robust; surface of body rugulose.
Head with the occiput distinctly inflated, a distinct median carina continuing cephalad to the angle of the fastigium, this being accompanied by lateral carinse lower and indefinite in character but constricted at the highest point of the swell of the occiput, and connected with the median carina by numerous low transverse ridges producing a scalari19U7, 171 form pattern; interspace between the eyes no narrower than the fastigiuni ; fastigium sHghtly acutc-angulatc in the male, rcctangulate in the female, the width being nearly that of the eye, between the points of greatest width the fastigium is bounded caudad by a low transverse carina, hardly indicated in the male, ccphalad of which the disk is slightly excavate ; when viewed laterad the angle of the fastigium is slightly rounded into the facial outline which is distinctly but not greatly retreating; frontal costa very narrow dorsad, much more so Fig.
7.
— Tropinotus guarani ii.
sp.
Lateral view of female tj-pe.
(X 2.)
comparatively in the female than in the male, from whence it regularly but gradualh^ expands except for a short subequal portion in the vicinity of the ocellus, in the male the costa is punctate but not sulcate, in the female it is sulcate for a moderate distance dorsad and ventrad of the ocellus, punctate elsewhere; eyes subovate, somewhat prominent in the male when viewed dorsad, in length distinctly (c?)
or slightly ( 9 ) longer than the infraocular sulcus; antennaj in length slightly exceed-ing the pronotum in both sexes, slightly depressed proximad.
Pronotum with the greatest width contained slightly less than twice (d^) or once and two-thirds ( 9 ) in the length of the same; cephalic margin slightly acute-angulate (6^) or rectangulate ( 9 ), the margins slightly concave laterad; caudal margin acute-angulate in both sexes but sharper in the male than in the female and with the lateral portions concave; dorsal crest moderately high, the greatest height being on the metazona which is arcuate somewhat independent of the prozona and in the male being higher comparatively and more arcuate than in the 172 [April, Figs.
8 and 9.
— Tropinotus guarani n. sp.
Dorsal view of head and pronotum of male and female types.
(X 2.)
female, the prozonal portion increasing in height caudad but slightly sinuate in the female, transverse sulci moderately impressed, the caudal one distinctly sunken into the sides of the crest, prozona somewhat shorter than the metazona; lateral carinse sharp, slightly lamellate caudad, cut by three sulci; lateral lobes with the dorsal length slightly greater than the depth; almost the entire surface of the pronotum is punctate, usually strongly so, and the metazona of the disk, particularly in the male, bears papilliform tubercles.
Tegmina slightly over twice the length of the pronotum, rather broad projDortionately, costal margin with a very considerable proximal lobe, the proximo-distal length of which is not great in proportion to the depth ; apex narrowed somewhat, obliquel}'' rotundato-truncate.
Prosternal spine com-' pressed, apex narrowed and directed caudad as usual in the genus; interspace between the mesosternal lol^es distinctly longer than broad in the male, subquadrate in the female; interspace between the metasternal lobes small and subquadrate in the male, transverse in the female.
Abdomen with the' dorsal segments rugoso-punctate.
Cephalic and median limits rather short, the femora of the male, particularly the cephalic, distinctly inflated.
Caudal femora robust, the distal portion, however, comparatix'ely slender when the robust proximal two-thirds is considered, the femoral length being about three-fourths that of the tegmina and the greatest width is contained nearly four times in the length, dorsal, ventral and lateral carina^ serrate, particularly the dorsal, paginte with the pattern very distinctly imbricate, the appearance being that of overlapping plates, the shape being also variable and seldom the usual Acrid oid chevron; caudal tibise very slightly shorter than the femora, very slightly sinuate, lateral margins with nine to ten spines, internal margins with ten spines.
General color bistre mingled and blended with vinaceous-cinnamon in a pattern which presents but few sharply defined contrasts of the two colors.
Dorsum of the pronotum in the female margined laterad by a siibequal baud of bice green, on the mctazoua.
liowever, this border becomes fainter caudad until it is not apparent, the median section of the pronotum is almost clove brown.
Anal field and a portion of the adjoining discoidal field bice green, absent, however, in the distal fourth; pattern of the tegmina formed by five distinct and two or more faintly indicated transverse bars of bistre, the pale bars distad and none encroaching on the costal field or the green dorsal section.
Wings with the disk carmine.
^Vntro-lateral carinse of the caudal femora with regularl}spaced dark blotches, the dorso-lateral face quite dark; caudal tibice wood brown in the male, of the same color but strongly sprinkled with bistre in the female.
Measurements.
& 9 Length of body 27.5 mm.
38.8 mm.
Length of pronotum 10.7 " 12.5 " Oreatestdorsal width of pronotum, .
.
5.5 " 7 " Length of tegmen, 23 " 29 " Greatest width of tegmen, 4.5 " 6 " Length of caudal femur, 17.2 " 21.4 " A series of three topotypic females have been examined in additicni to the types.
In size these individuals var}^ somewhat, one being slightly larger than the type, the others of about the same size with slightly shorter tegmina.
In color the variation is chiefly in individual variation in shades of brown, the pattern remaining much the same, the green areas being brown as in the male in two of the three specimens.
The caudal tibiae are light in two and dark in one of the paratypic specimens examined.
Tropinotus regularis BnuuT.
1905.
Tropinotus regularis Bruner, Ent.
Xews, XVI, p. 214.
[Sapucay» Paraguaj'.]
7 c?, 13 $ .
February and March, 1905.
This series exhibits considerable variation in the size and intensity of the tegminal blotches.
The phase with green on the lateral portions of the disk of the pronotum and on the anal and contiguous portion of the discoidal field of the tegmina as described by Bruner."
is represented by five females.
Tropinotus Isevipes St4I.
1878.
T[rapidonotus] I(svipes Still, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Alcad.
Hancll., V, Xo.
9, p. 20.
[Sao Leopoldo, Brazil; Argentine Republic] »* Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 647.
10 6", 7 9 .
December, 1904, to February, 1905.
This series shows some slight variation in size in the male sex.
Tropinotus lineatus Bruncr.
1906.
Tropinotus lineatus Brunei-, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 648.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
2 d", 2 9.
February and March, 1905.
Three of these specimens are in the brown phase, while one female is colored Avith green as mentioned in the original description.
In the latter specimen the characteristic longitudinal pale bar is light green, and not yellowish as in the other individuals.
EL.ffi:OCHLORA SUl.
1S73.
Elocochlora Stal, Ofv.
K. Vetensk.-Akad.
Forhandlingar, 1873, No.
4, p. 52.
Type.
— Gryllus scaber Thunberg.
Elaeochlora viridicata (Serville).
1839.
Xiphicera viridicata Serville, Orthopteres, p. 614.
[Buenos Ayres.]
9 d", 4 9.
December, 1904; February and March, 1905.
These specimens are not tj'-pical of viridicata, but are not strong!
}^ enough differentiated to warrant separation.
When compared with Buenos Ayi-es and Carcarana, Argentina material the Sapucay males are seen to have distinctly shorter tegmina and wings, while the females have these organs slightly shorter.
The Sapucay males range from 19.5 to 26 millimeters in the length of the tegmina, while two Argentina males measure 32.5 and 34 millimeters.
CHROMACRIS Walker.
•"Chromacris stolli (Pictet and Saussure).
1887.
R[homalea] Stolli Pictet and Saussure, Mittheil.
Schw.
Ent.
Gesell.. VII, p. 351.
[Bahia, Brazil.]
9 d", 10 9 .
December, 1904; January to March, 1905.
These specimens are clearly stolli and show no important differences from Ai-gentina material of the species.
When compared with British Guianan specimens of C. miles the Sapucay material is seen to be distinct.
ZONIOPODA Stai.
1873.
Zoniopoda Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, pp.
32, 51.
Included Z. tarsaia (Serville) and emarginata Stal, of which the first may be considered the tj-pe.
Zoniopoda iheringi (Pictet .and Saussure).
1887.
Z[oniopoda] Iheringi Pictet and Saussure, Mittheil.
Schw.
Ent.
Gesell., VII, p. 3.57.
[Southern Brazil.]
12 'j", 10 9 .
December, 1904; February and March, 1905.
This scries is quite uniform in size ami color, the only appreciable variation being in the color of the antcnnic and of the caudal tibiae.
The antennae are uniform ochraceous in some individuals, of the same color slighth' washed proximad with umber, there narrowly annulate with paler in others and also uniform umber annulate through the length but more distinctly so proximad.
The color of the eyes vary from ochraceous to deep walnut brown.
The caudal tibiae are strongly purplish-pink in some specimens, in others whitish and numerous specimens are lightly washed with pinkish.
The typical specimen from Rio Grande do Sul mentioned in a previous paper^^ has the median carina of the pronotum more elevated than the Sapucay specimens.
Zoniopoda similis Brunor.
190G.
Zoniopoda similis Bruiier, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 6.52.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
9 d", 4 ?
.
February and March, 1905.
These specimens are cjuite uniform in size and coloration, in a few the yellowish tint being more pronounced than in others.
The carmine caudal tarsi are quite striking.
Zoniopoda oruentata (Blauchard).
1S46.
'* Acridium cruentatum Blanchard, in D'Orbignv, Vov.
dans rAmt-r, Mend., YI, pt.
II, p. 216, pi.
XXVII, fig.
5.
[No locality.]
1900.
Z[oniopoda] tarsata Bruncr, Ace.
Gen. Spec.
Locusts Argent., p. 61, fig.
26.
(Not of SerAille.)
1906.
Zoniopoda tarsata Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 652, pi.
XXXVII, fig.
2.
(Not of Serville.)
10 c?, 9 9 .
January to March, 1905.
This species, which has been confused with Serville's tarsata from Brazil, differs from the latter in having less red on the head, the entire portion of the latter caudad of the interocular region being red in tarsata, in having the clypeus, labrum and mandil)les light in color instead of solid black as in tarsata, the cephalic and median limbs variegated wdth yellow, red and olive-green instead of red, orange and black or blackish, and the proximal dark bar on the caudal femora weak and diffuse instead of solid and clearl}^ defined on the dorsal half of the limb.
Two females of this series have the caudal femora with very weak dark maculations and annulations, the actual color of them being oil green, while the blackish genicular maculations are as distinct as in the other specimens.
In some individuals the second joint >' Ent.
News, XVI, p. 38. "
Vide Sherborn, Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., 7th ser., VII, p. 389. of the caudal tarsi is hardly darker than the other tarsal joints, the tarsi then appearing almost uniform carmine.
The eyes vary from ochraceous to seal brown in color.
Zoniopoda omnicolor (Blanchard).
1S4Q.^* Amdium omnicolor Blanchard, in D'Orbigny, Vov.
dans I'Amer.
Mend., VI, pt.
II, p. 216, pi.
XXVII, fig.
3.
[No locality.]
10 d", 9 9 .
December, 1904, to March, 1905.
This series exhibits considerable variation in size, the males ranging in length of body from 29 to 37 millimeters, the females from 44 to 52.
Zoniopoda exilipes Bruiier.
1906.
Zoniopoda exilipes Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 654[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
10 d", 8 ?
.
February and IVIarch, 1905.
This series is quite constant in size and color.
The large yellow lateral sections of the subgenital plate are very conspicuous, the color there being the same as on the head and more yellowish than on the limbs and pronotum.
PRIONAGRIS Stal.
1S78.
Prionacris Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, V. No.
4, pp.
19, 55.
Type.
— P. compressa Stal.
*Prionaoris erosa n. sp.
Type: c?
; Sapucay, Paraguay.
March 15, 1906.
(William Foster.)
[Hebard Collection.]
Allied to P. compressa from New Grenada, but of different proportions and with the wings colored differentl3^ Size moderately large; form elongate; surface of thorax rugulosopunctate, of head smooth or finely punctulate.
Head broad, the length distinctly less than the width, the breadth across the eyes being almost twice the length; occiput rounded, but little elevated dorsad of the eyes, gently declivent to the fastigium, smooth, the width between the eyes but little less than the length of the eye; fastigium rectangulate, not broader than the space between the eyes, margins not at all carinate, disk slightly depressed transversely, a longitudinal median depression marked only at the immediate apex, when viewed laterad the frontal costa rounds into the facial outline which is slightly arcuate; frontal costa very broad, defined by distinct lateral margins only in the dorsal half, the ventral section being also somewhat narrower than the dorsal, not i« Vide Sherborn, Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., 7th ser., VII, p. 389.
1007.]
177 Silicate, but strongly punctulate as is the whole facial region ; eyes ovate, quite prominent when viewed dorsad; antennir slightly longer than the head and pronotum together, slender.
J'ronotum with the length about equal to the vertical depth of the head ; the caudal width Fig.
10.
— Prionacris erosa n. sp.
Lateral view of tj'pe.
of the disk contained about one and one-half times in the length of the same; cephalic margin obtuse-angulate, caudal margin slightly acuteangulate, the immediate apex sharp; median carina moderately arcuate in general outline, dentato-scrrate, particularly on the metazona, the principal sulcus and the prozonal sulci deeply cutting the crest into three parts on the prozona; principal transverse sulci three in number, the disk rounding into the lateral lobes on the prozona, a distinct but well rounded shoulder present on the metazona; lateral lobes with the dorsal length about equal to the depth, the cephalic and caudal margins subparallel for more than half their length, ventral margin truncate caudad, slightly oblique cephalad.
Tegmina about two and two-thirds times the length of the head and pronotum together, exceeding the apex of the abdomen by slightly less than the length of the pronotum, the greatest width being two-thirds the distance from the base; costal margin with a slight proximal lobe and arcuate in the distal third, sutural nirirgin Fig.
11.
— Prionacris erosa n. sp.
Wing of type.
Natural size.
nearly straight, apex distinctl}^ oblique truncate, the immediate apex narrowly rounded; mediastine vein strong, nearl}' straight; anterior ulnar vein sinuate, after bending ventrad from the posterior ulnar vein it recurves and continues closely parallel to the same; intercalary area broad and filled with a network of irregularly meshlike nervures.
Wings elongate, narrow, apex rounded acute-angulate; discoidal vein with two rami, the proximal diverging before the middle, the distal separating near the distal third, the proximal furcate; ulnar field occupied by a closely placed scalariform pattern of parallel transverse veins numbering about forty-five, those in the narrow proximal section being very closely placed, while the distal section is occupied by the regular vein pattern; anal vein distinctly sinuate a short distance distad of the middle ; anterior axillary field narrow, veined much as the ulnar field and bent under the inflated posterior axillary field, the latter broad, with a scalariform pattern of about thirty veins, as a rule more spaced than in the ulnar field, the vein bounding this area caudad being very much thickened and slightly arcuate.
Abdomen subcylindrical, subgenital plate conical, somewhat compressed, slightly carinate ventrad; cerci small, styliform, the apex slightly bent ventrad; supra-anal plate slightly compressed, the median depression subfusiform with margins high, apex acute.
Prosternal spine strongly compressed, blunt, directed slightly cephalad; interspace between the mesosternal lobes distinctly longitudinal, narrower than one of the lobes; interspace between the metasternal lobes much smaller, subquadrate; the whole of the sternal region slightly but distinctly concave.
Cephalic and median limbs very short, robust; caudal femora slightly more than half the length of the tegmina, thick and with the pregenicular constriction but little marked, greatest width contained nearly five times in the length, carinse low and hardly marked, paging with the pattern very slightly sculptured and with little resemblance to the typical Acridoid chevrons; caudal tibiae very slightly shorter than the femora, very slightly sinuate, lateral margins with ten spines one of which is apical, internal margins with eleven spines, internal spurs moderately long, subequal, the whole of the dorsal surface of the tibise clothed with long white pile ; caudal tarsi quite elongate.
General color mummy brown, mingled and sometimes contrasted with wood brown.
Head wood brown laterad , washed with russet dorsad and with a narrow median bluish line, face of the general color, eyes burnt umber; antennae dragon's blood red proximad, brick red distad.
Pronotum with the margin of the crest and portions of the ventral section of the lateral lobes touched with bistre.
Tegmina with four poorly (lofmod trausvorso liuht bars on the proximal two-tliirds, distal thiixl hyaline, the longitudinal veins dark and the transverse and adventitious veins pale.
Wings with the disk malachite green bordered toward the periphery by an arch of bistre which touches none of the margins; anterior field hyaline witli the veins dark.
Caudal femora with a touch of cla3^-color on the dorsal and ventral faces, laterad somewhat hoary, genicular arch blackish, the remainder of the genicular region burnt sienna; caudal tibia crimson, faint laterad and touched with blackish on the genicular section, particularly on the internal face, spines and spurs tipped with black; caudal tarsi washed with crimson.
Measurements.
Length of body, 41 mm.
Breadth of head across eyes, 7.8 " Breadth immediately ventrad of eyes, 6.8 " Length of pronotum 9.2 " Greatest caudal width of disk of pronotum, .
.... 5.5 " Length of tegmen, 37 " Greatest width of tegmen, 7 " Length of caudal femur, 19.5 " The type is unique.
DIPONTHUS stai.
18G0.
Diponthus Stal, Kongl.
Svenska Fregat.
Eugenies Resa, Ins., p. 328.
Included Acridium nigro-conspersum Stal and Acridium electum Serville, of which the first may be considered the type.
Diponthus paraguayensis Bruiier.
1900.
Diponthufi paraguayensis Brunor, Proc.
U. S. Xat.
Mus., XXX, p. 657.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
9 cJ*, 11 ?.
December, 1902 and 1904; January, 1903; February and March, 1905.
This series shows that considerable variation is present in the intensity of the base color of the body and limbs, this being rather warm brown in some and decidedly olive green in others.
The femoral bars are less distinct in some specimens than in others, due in the poorly contrasted specimens to a suffusion of the light bars with olive green.
One specimen is washed with rosy red, a condition previously noted in species of this genus by Pictet and Saussure.
LEPTYSMA St&l.
1873.
Leptysma Stal, Recensio Orthoptororuin, I, pp.
42, 8.5.
Included L. filiformis (Serv.).
obsciira (Thunberg) and marginicoUis (Serv.
), of which the first may be considered the iy^e.
*Leptysma filiformis (Serville).
1839.
Opmmala fiUjormis Serville, Orthopteres, p. 593.
[North of the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil.]
5 9 .
February and March, 1905.
One of these specimens is decidedly rosy.
Leptysma obscura (Thunberg).
1827.
Tr\^uxalis\ obscurus Thunberg, Nova Act.
Reg.
Soc.
Scient.
Upsal., IX, p. 79.
[Brazil.]
3 6" , 4 9 .
January, 1903 ; February and March, 1905.
The comparatively shorter head of this species readily separates it from the preceding species, which also has the caudal section of the head somewhat inflated when viewed laterad.
STENACEIS Walker.
Stenacris coccineipes (Bnmer).
1906.
Arnilia coccineipes Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 659.
[San Bernardino, Asuncion and Sapucay, Paraguay; Victoria, Brazil.]
I c?.
March, 1905.
This specimen has the caudal tibiae uniform red as in the type, but rather pale in color.
OXYBLEPTELLA Giglio-Tos.
1894.
Oxyhleptella Giglio-Tos, Boll.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 33.
Type.
— 0. sagitta Giglio-Tos.
*Oxybleptella sagitta Giglio-Tos.
1894.
Oxyhleptella sagitta Giglio-Tos, Boll.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 33.
[Villa Rica, Paraguay.]
4 6", 5 ?.
March, 1905.
These specimens show a slight variation in size in the female sex.
STENOPOLA sm.
1873.
Stenopola Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, pp.
42, 83.
Type.
— Stenopola dorsalis (Thunberg).
Stenopola bohlsii Giglio-Tos.
1895.
Sitenopola] bohlsii Giglio-Tos.
Zoolog.
Jahrbiicher, Abth.
Syst., VIII, p. 813.
[Paraguay.]
II d", 7 9 .
February and March, 1905.
This series is quite constant in coloration.
ADIMANTUS Stal.
1878.
Adimantus Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, V, No.
4, p. 38.
Type.
— Oxija ornatissima Burmeister.
Adimantus vitticeps (Blanclinnl).
1846.
Acridium vitticeps Blanchard, in D'Orbigny, Voy.
lAiiiir.
Mcrid., VI, pt.
II, p. 21G, pi.
XXVII, fig.
4.
[No locality cited.]
3(^,4 9.
March, 1905.
This series shows considerable variation in the suffusion of vermihon on the cephahc and median hmbs, and also in the extent and intensity of the same color on the caudal tibife, one specimen having these in the greater part greenish and bluish black.
In all the specimens the caudal tibite bear two median, more or less complete, annuli of bluish or bluish black.
Rurmeister's Oxya oi^notissiina is probably distinct from this species, having, according to the original description, blue wings.
ZYGOCLISTRON Rehn.
1905.
Zygoclistron Rehn, Entom.
News, XVI, p. 39.
Type.
— Z. trachystidum Rehn.
Zygoclistron traohystictum Rehn.
1905.
ZygocUfitron trachystictum Rehn, Entom.
News, X\'I, p. 39, figs.
1, 2 and 3.
[8apucay, Paraguay.]
12 c5^, 9 9 .
January to March, 1905.
This series shows that while color variation in the species is sUght, the female sex exhibits a considerable amount of individual variation in size, the smallest measuring 10.2, 19 and 20.5 millimeters in the length of the pronotum, tegmen and caudal femur respectively, the largest having these parts 12.5, 21.5 and 24.5.
♦Zygoclistron superbum n. sp.
Types: o^ and ?
; Sapucay, Paraguay.
December 16, 1904 (9), March 5, 1905 (c?).
(William Foster.)
[Hebard Collection.]
Allied to Z. trachystictum but differing in the more produced, more acute and more excavate fastigium, the less regularly divergent margins of the frontal costa, the more ovate eyes, the longer tegmina and wings (particularly in the female) and in the presence of maculations on the dorsum of the pronotum.
Size rather large; form moderately elongate; surface of head and abdomen smooth, of thorax rugulose.
Head with the occiput not elevated to the level of the disk of the pronotum, slightly rounded and gently declivent to the fastigium, interocular region slightly narrower than the width of the eye in the male and equal to two-thirds the length of the eye in the female; fastigium with the apical margin slightly acute-angulate in both sexes, the immediate apex sharply defined , disk of the fastigium broader proportionateU'and less defined in the female than in the male, distinctly but not greatly excavate in the male, hardly so in 13 182 [April, the female; position of the lateral foveolse filled with irregularly vertical rngse in both sexes; frontal costa represented for a short distance dorsad merely by a high carinate ridge, which, however, distinctly expands with distinct lateral carinse and a distinctly depressed median area, between them the margins in the male are regularly but not strongly expanded to the ocellus, immediately ventrad of which they are sharply constricted but return to their regular trend, in the female they expand more broadly dorsad and in continuing ventrad they Fig.
12.
— Zygoclistron superhum n. sp.
Lateral \-iew of female type.
(X H.) separate but little more and have no appreciable constriction; eyes ovoid, slightly narrower dorsad, in the male the eyes are moderately prominent when viewed dorsad and in length they are distinctly longer ( C* ) or subecjual to ( 9 ) the inf raocular sulcus ; antennae subequal to ( 9 ) or slightly more than half as long again as ( c? )
the head and pronotum together, slightly depressed proximad.
Pronotum moderately tectate and slightly inflated on the prozona, flattened except for the median carina on the metazona; cephalic margin broadly obtuseangulate, the immediate apex blunt; caudal margin obtuse-angulate, the apex blunt and the margins slightly sinuate laterad; greatest caudal width of the disk contained one and a half times in the length ; median carina prominent, slightly arcuate on the prozona and divided into three parts by transverse sulci, the cephalic part longer than the others, on the metazona the carina is slightly elevated cephalad decreasing in height caudad ; prozona without distinct lateral shoulders, metazona with definite but well-roimded shoulders; lateral lobes considerably longer dorsad than deep, ventral margin obtuse-angulate, the angle slightly caudad of the middle.
Tegmina somewhat exceeding the apex of the abdomen in the male, subequal in the female; costal margin -with a very slight proximal dilation, the distal third slightly roundtxl off, apex oblique rotundato-truncate; area between the median and discoidal veins in the middle of the tegmen supplied with ten to twelve transverse regularly placed veins arranged in a scalariform pattern, this feature being present in both sexes but larger and stronger in the male.
Prosternal process slightly bent caudad, slightly inflated distad, rounded, slightly compressed; interspace between the mesosternal lobes extremely narrow, the lobes almost attingent in the male, in shape clepsydral; interspace between the metasternal lobes as wide as the mesosternal interspace in the male, considerably wider and sub-cuneiform in the female.
Abdomen slightly compressed ; furcula of the male present as very short and broad rounded lobes; supra-anal plate of the male broad and subequal in the proximal twothirds, distad of this the margins are roundly inciu'ved and then produced into the acute apex, median portion elevated, the proximal section with an enclosed longitutlinal rectangulate area, the distal section with a pair of converging carina; ccrci elongate, slender, bent falciform in a horizontal plane, the distal half moderately tapering, the median section slender, apex slightly depressed and with the tip sharp and slightly outcurved; subgenital plate compressed, the apex hooked, elevated and lamellate.
Cephalic and median limbs short and robust, particularly in the male.
Caudal femora hardly robust, the greatest width contained five times in the length which is ecjual to twice ( 9 ) or slightly more than twice (cT) the length of the pronotum, the outline of the femora tapering slightly but regularly from the proximal third to the moderately inflated genicular region, carinte distinct but not high, smooth, pagina?
with the pattern distinct, chevrons moderately regular; caudal tibia; about equal to the femora in length, lateral margins with eight to ten spines, internal margins with eleven to twelve spines.
General colors chromium green, l)ay and saffron yellow.
Head with a broad irregular median longitudinal bar of dull yellow, margined laterad by bay; postocular regions green, gena; ventrad of the eyes obliquely yellow, the ventral margin touched with bay: face of the female ba\', of the male fainth^ washed with the same and with a trace of a transverse yellowish bar; eyes cinnamon; antennaj wine purple.
Pronotum bay with broad lateral yellow bars on the disk, these bars converging on the middle of the prozona and regularly di-v-erging cephalad and caudad, the ventral margin of the lateral lobes also with a bar of yellow.
Pleura greenish, the two pronotal bars on each side continued on them, the dorsal to the insertion of the caudal femur, the ventral to the insertion of the median femur.
Abdomen yellowish.
Tegmina greenish, the anal area yellow, this color as is also that of the pronotal and pleural bars brighter in the male than in the female.
Wings washed with orange red proximad.
Limbs greenish brown, the carinse and paginse marked but not conspicuously with purplish, genicular arches of the caudal femora bay; caudal tibiae pale vinaceous, in the female the internal face and the internal faces of the internal spines marked with purplish black, in the male the internal faces of the spines alone are marked, tips of all the spines of the same color.
Measure7nents.
Length of body, 36.5 mm.
54 mm.
Length of pronotum 7.5 " n.2 " Length of tegmen 30.5 " 38.5 " Length of caudal femur, 17.5 " 22.8 " A paratypic series of tliree males and four females, taken on dates in December, 1904, January, February and March, 1905, have also been examined.
One of the females possesses slightly longer tegmina and wings than the others, and in several of the females the frontal costa is slightly constricted ventrad of the sulcus, but otherwise]no important structural variation is noticed.
In color the variation noticed is chiefly in the depth of the bay color and the brilliancy of the yellow, the blackish on the internal face of the caudal tibice]^also varying slightly in extent and intensity, being weak in some females and distinctly marked in two of the males.
ALEUAS stai.
1878.
Aleuas Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, V, No.
4, pp.
25, 69.
Included A. vitticollis, gracilis and lineatus Stal, of which the first may be considered the type.
Aleuas brachypterus Brunei.
1906.
Aleuas brachypterus Bruiier, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 667.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
3 ?
.
March, 1905.
Aleuas gracilis St^l.
1878.
A[leuas] gracilis Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, V, No.
4, p. 70.
[Brazil.]
10 c?, 4 ?
.
February and March, 1905.
The individuals I have considered as representing the females of this species are short -winged as in A. brachypterus, but smaller than that species, with the fastigium more acute aiul the margins cariiiate, being in this respect a niodilicd form of the structure of this portion in the male.
The measurements of an average female are as follows: length of body, 45 mm.
; length of pronotum.
10; length of tegmen, 10; length of cauilal femur, IS.
PARALEUAS (.ikHo-Tos.
1S9S.
Paraleuas Giglio-Tos, Bollott, Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Conip.
Torino, XIII, No.
311, pp.
47, 57.
Type.
— P. bohlsii Giglio-Tos, Paraleuas fosteri Brunei-.
1906.
Paraleuas foslcri Brunor, Proc.
U. S. Xat.
Mus., XXX, p. 669.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
1 6^,8 9 .
February and :\Iarch, 1905.
These specimens vary considerably in color, the males being hght yellow in the paler areas, the majority of the females dull gamboge on the same sections, while one has a A'cry slight rather general pinkishred suffusion.
JODACRIS Giglio-Tos.
1S97.
Jodacris Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, XII.
Xo.
302, p. 32.
T3'pe.
— Anniceris ferrugineus Giglio-Tos.
Jodacris ferruginea (Giglio-Tos).
1S94.
A[nnic€ris] ferrugineus Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, Xo.
1S4, p. 30.
[Province of San Pedro, Villa Rica, Asuncion, Paraguay.]
3 9 .
March, 1905.
One of these specimens is slightly smaller than the others.
OMALOTETTIX Bruner.
1906.
Omalotettix Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Xat.
Mus., XXX, pp.
612, 672.
Type.
— Jodacris{?)
nchulosa Bruner.
Omalotettix nebulosa (Bruner).
1900.
Jo(lncrls(?)
nchulosa Bruner, Ace.
Gen. Spec.
Locusts Argentina, p. 67.
[Asuncion, Paraguay; Province of Tucuman, Argentina.]
1 d^, 3 9 .
February and March, 1905.
These specimens appear to be fully typical.
One female individual is rather fainth' suffused with ros}".
Omalotettix signatipes Bruner.
1906.
Omalotettix signatipes Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Xat.
Mus., XXX, p. 673.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
5 c^, 9 ?
.
February and :\[arch, 1905.
This series is readily separable from ncbidosa by the blunter fastigium/as mentioned by Brunei', and also by the more robust caudal femora.
It is apparent from this material that the lower external face of the caudal femora is not always black, specimens indistinguishable otherwise varying in this respect.
In the cases where this is not black, it is of the color of the external femoral face.
The maculation on the external face also varies in size and intensity.
VILERNA stai.
1873.
Vilerna Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, pp.
3S, 71.
Type.
— V. ceneo-oculata (De Geer).
Vilerna rugulosa St&l.
1878.
Vilerna rugulosa Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Veten.-Akad.
Handlingar, V, No.
4, p. 61.
[Peru; Rio Janeiro.]
1 9 .
April, 1902.
XIPHIOLA Bolivar.
1896.
Xiphiola Bolivar, Actas Soc.
Espau.
Hist.
Xat., XXV, p. 17.
Type.
— A', cyanoptera Bolivar.
Xiphiola borellii Giglio-Tos.
1900.
X[iphiola] Borellii Giglio-Tos, Boll.
Mas.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp., XV, Xo.
377, p. 5.
[Urucum, Brazil.]
1 ?
.
May, 1902.
This individual is slightly smaller than the specimen measured by the describer.
SCHISTOCERCA Sti\l.
Schistocerca infumata Scudder, 1899.
Schistocei-ca infumata Scudder, Proo.
Amer.
Acad.
Arts and Sci., XXXIV, p. 457.
[Monte^^deo, Uruguay; Brazil.]
8 d", 10 9 .
February and March, 1905.
Wlien compared with the closely allied *S. flavofasciata (De Geer), the form of the male cerci is found to be a good diagnostic character, these being|broadly truncate in flavofasciata and distinctly, but not greatly, tapering in infuinata.
ATRACHELACRIS Giglio-Tos.
1894.
Atrachelacris Giglio-Tos, BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, pp.
19, 20.
Type.
— A. unicolor Giglio-Tos.
Atrachelacris unicolor Giglio-Tos.
1894.
Atrachelacris unicolor Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 21.
[Resistencia nel Cliaco, Argentina; Asuncion, Paraguay.]
6 (5^, 10 9 .
January to March, 1905.
This is unquestionably true A. imicolor, as comparison with the original measurements demonstrates, the individuals recorded by Bruner as A. unicolor from Cordoba and Carcarana, Argentina being distinct.
DICHROPLUS Stai.
1S73, Dichroplus Stal, Kecensio Urthopterorum, I, p. 78.
Included D. arrogans patruelis, cliens and lemniscatus (Stal), of which the first can be considered the type.
Dichroplus robustus Bruner.
190(3.
Dichroplus robustus Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX.
p. G79.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
2 cJ^, 2 9 .
February and March, 1905.
As the male of this species is at present undescribed, a few notes on the appendages of this sex may be of service.
Furcula present as very minute short fingers lying close together.
Supra-anal plate broad with the apex obtuse-angulate and the median ridges approaching to about the middle of the plate, from which caudad they are subparallel.
Cerci slender, long, distinctly tapering in the proximal half from a rather broad base to a slender rounded shaft, beyond which they have a slight ventral falcation, being also slightly compressed distad and with the apex acute.
Subgenital plate rather short, conical, horizontal, margins straight and with a small apical indentation.
The females are slightly smaller than the measurements given by Bruner, but appear without doubt to be this species.
All the sj^ecimens are darker than those described by Bruner.
Dichroplus paraguayensis Bruner.
190G.
Dichroplus pnraguayensis Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
^lus., XXX, p. 680.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
7 c?, 2 9 .
February and March, 1905.
These specimens appear to fully represent this species, which, without other material, would be hard in the female sex to distinguish from robustus.
One female specimen measures, length of body, 31.5 rnm.
; length of pronotum, 7.5; length of tegmen, 24; length of caudal femur, 17.5.
Dichroplus exilis Giglio-Tos.
1894.
D[ichroplus] exilis Giglio-Tos, Boll.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp., IX, No.
184, pp.
23.
[Resistencia nel Chaoo, Argentina.]
1 cJ', 3 Q .
February and March, 1905.
Superficially this species bears some resemblance to D. hergii, but is, of course, a very different insect, the apparent similarity being chiefly in color pattern.
Dichroplus punctulatus (Thunberg).
1S24.
Gr[yllut;] puncfulatiis Thunberg, Mem.
I'Acad.
Imp.
Sci.
St.
Petersb., IX, p. 408.
[Brazil.]
9 6^, 14 9 .
September, 1901; January to March, 1905.
This series presents considerable variation in the intensity'and shade of the pronotal markings, as well as in the depth of coloration of the dorsal face of the caudal femora.
Dichroplus dubius Bruncr.
1906.
Dichroplus dubius Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 682.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
1 (^,7 9.
February and March, 1905.
These specimens are c^uite uniform in size, and in coloration vary but slightly in the intensity of the broken dorsal bars on the caudal femora.
The very slender cerci of this species are quite peculiar.
Dichroplus bergii (St&l).
1878.
P[ezotettix] Bergii Stal, Biliang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, V, No.
9, p. 6.
[Buenos Ayres, Parana, Corrientes.]
15 6^, 11 2.
December, 1904; February and March, 1905; May, 1902.
This series varies considerably in the suffusion of the dorsum of the pronotum, and in the depth of color of the tegmina and dorsal face of the caudal femora as well as of the caudal tibiae.
Dichroplus cinctipes Bruner.
1906.
Dichroplus cinctipes Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 683.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
6 c?, 12 9 .
February and March, 1905.
This series shows that considerable variation exists in the general size of the females and in the length of the tegmina and wings in the same sex.
LEIOTETTIX Bruner.
1906.
Leiotettix Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, pp.
643, 684.
Type.
— L. viridis Bruner.
Leiotettix viridis Bruner.
1906.
Leiotettix viridis Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 685.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
12 c?
, 1 1 9 .
January to March, 1905.
This series is quite uniform in size and coloration.
Leiotettix punctipes Bruner.
1906.
Leiotettix punctipes Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX,rp.
686.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
12 9 .
February and March, 1905.
This species varies somewhat in size, specimens distinctly larger and smaller than the original measurements being in the series.
The dorsal section of the external pagina is strongly purplish in the majority of specimens.
Leiotettix sanguineus Hrunor.
1901).
Leiolettix sanguineus Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Xat.
Mus., XXX, p. GS7.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
3 6^, 1 9 .
January and March, 1905.
The pale portions of the gena) and pronotum in one specimen are more greenish than flavous.
Leiotettix flavipes Bruner.
19U(3.
Leiotettix flavipes Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Xat.
Mus., XXX, p. 687.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
5 d", 8 ?
.
February and :\larch, 1905.
This beautiful species appears to be Cjuite uniform in coloration.
^Leiotettix hastatus n. sp.
Type: d^ ; Sapucay, Paraguay.
February 3, 1905.
(W. T.
Foster.)
[Hebard Collection.]
Closely allied to L. flavipes Bruner, but differing in the straight cerci, reddish caudal tibiiP, the non-emarginate cephalic margin of the pronotum and the more pronounced angle of the caudal margin of the same.
Size medium; form as usual in the genus.
Head with the occiput hardly elevated above the level of the pronotal disk; vertex gently declivent to the fastigium, interspace between the eyes about twothirds the width of one of the eyes; fastigium slightly broader than long, slightly depressed within the margins but not excavate; frontal costa rounded dorsad, rather broad, subec^ual in width, slightly constricted ventrad of the ocellus, sulcate for a considerable distance ventrad of the ocellus and around the dorsum of the same; eyes hardly prominent when viewed dorsad, ovate in outline, slightly flattened cephalad, in length slightly less than half that of the infraocular sulcus; antennae somewhat shorter than the caudal femora, slightly flattened at the apex.
Pronotum very slightly depressed mesad, disk slightly narrowed mesad, greatest width of the disk (caudal) contained Fig.
13.
— Leiotettix about once and a half in the length; cephalic ha.<:tatus n.sp.
Lat,.
, , ,1-1 '^'"^1 view oi apex margm slightly arcuate, caudal margm obtuseof male abdomen.
angulate with the immediate angle slightly CX (3.)
flattened; median carina distinct but slight on the prozona, more apparent but low on the metazona, principal sulcus dividing the carinse decidedly caudad of the middle: lateral angles rounded on the prozona, developing slight but apparent shoulders on the metazona; lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep, regularly narrowing ventrad, the ventral margin obtuse-angulate.
Tegmina slightly exceeding the apex of the abdomen.
Prosternal spine pyramidical, moderately acute, directed slightly caudad; interspace between the mesosternal lobes longitudinal, the length distinctly but not greatly exceeding the width; metasternal lobes attingent.
Furcula developed as a pair of very short, slight separated fingers; supra-anal plate with the margins converging, a median lanceolate depression in the proximal half very marked; cerci rather short, tapering in the proximal half, the median width no more than half the proximal, distal half slightly compressed, the ventral margin rather straight, the dorsal with a slight expanded shoulder distacl of the middle then continuing straight to the acute apex, external face of the distal half slightly excavate; subgenital plate considerably produced, scoop-like, the margin semielliptical when viewed dorsad, when viewed laterad straight in the proximal portion but slightly emarginate and depressed distad, the apex on a plane with the base.
Cephalic and median limbs with the femora moderately inflated.
Caudal femora roliust, the length about two and one-half times that of the pronotum and the breadth contained about three and a half times in the length, pagince distinctly but not very deeply sculptured; caudal til^ia?
^^"ith nine spines on each margin.
General colors russet, olive-green and gamboge yellow; the russet coloring the tegmina, strongly proximad, weakly toward the apex; the olive-green present in rather broad lateral bars extending from caudad of the eyes across the pronotum and weakl}' coloring the dorsal exposed portion of the pleura, the dorsal face and the dorsal half of the lateral face of the caudal femora as well as the median and cephalic limbs of the same color; the gamboge yellow colors the gense, the ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotimi, the greater portion of the pleura and the ventral half of the lateral face of the caudal femora.
Face very dull olive-green, the dorsum of the head much the same color, separated from the post ocular bars by a faint bar of yellow; eyes walnut brown ; antenme cinnamon, darker distad.
Pronotum with the dorsum burnt umber with the faintest possible traces of longitudinal lateral bars.
Abdomen clay-color.
Caudal femora with the genicular arches clove brown, internal face and ventral face and sulcus except for a narrow yellow pregenicular area poppy red ; caudal tibiie washed with dilute orange-vermilion, the spines buffy tipped with black.
Measurements.
Length of body, 24.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 5 " Length of tegmen 18.2 " Length of caudal femur, 13 " The type is unique.
SCOTUSSA Giglio-Tos.
1894.
Scotussa Giglio-Tos, BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, pp.
20, 24.
Type.
— S. impudica Giglio-Tos.
Scotussa rubripes Bruner.
190(i. Scotufiysa rubripes Bruuer, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 688.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
3 c^, 3 9 .
January to March, 1905.
As stated by Bruner the superficial resemblance of this species to Leiotettix flaripes is very great.
The male being hitherto unknown some remarks on the appendages may be pertinent.
Furcula very short, minute, placed close together.
Supra-anal plate evenly depressed distad.
Cerci slender, elongate, tapering in the proximal half, distad of this slightly compressed, slightly falcate, acute and with a distinct sigmoid curve toward the median Une.
Subgenital plate slightly produced, broad,, rather shallow, the apex rectangulate.
The measurements of a male specimen are as follows : Length of body, 21 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4.5 " Length of tegmen, 17 '^ Length of caudal femur, 10.5 " PARASCOPAS BruiKT.
1894.
Scopas Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Auat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, pp.
20, 28.
(Not of Bonaparte.)
190G.
Parascopas Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 689.
Type.
— Scopas ohesus Giglio-Tos.
Parascopas obesus (Giglio-Tos).
1894.
S[copas] obesus Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 29, pi.
figs.
5 and 6.
[Pro^•ince of San Pedro, Asuncion, Paraguay.]
10 cJ^, 11 ?
.
February, 1903 and 1905.
CHLORUS Giglio-Tos.
1898.
Chlonis Giglio-Tos, Boll.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp., XIII, No.
311, p. 50, footnote.
Type.
— Paradichroplus borellii Giglio-Tos.
Chlorus vittatus Bruter.
1906.
Chlorus vittatus Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat, Mus., XXX, p. 690.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
I 9 .
February, 1905.
This specimen fully answers the original description, except that the median carina of the pronotum is hardly perceptible.
OSMILIA st&i.
1873.
OsmiUa Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 68.
Included Acrydium flavolineatum De Geer, Gryllus violaceum, rufipcs and ohliquum Thunberg, of which flavolineatmn may be considered the type.
Osmilia violacea (Thunberg).
1824.
Gr[yllus] violaceus Thunberg, Mem.
I'Acad.
Imp.
Sci.
St.
Petersb., IX, p. 413.
'[Brazil.]
II c?, 9 ?
.
January to March, 1905.
This series presents some variation in the depth of the ground color and also in the presence or absence of weak tegminal maculations.
May 7.
Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty-one persons present.
The Chair announced the death of William K. Shryock, a member, April 28, 1907.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication : "Description of New Species of Spioniform Annelids," by J. Percy Moore (April 26).
"A Contribution to the Morphology of Pyrula," by Burnett Smith (April 29).
"The Hymenopterous Family Evaniidse," by J. Chester Bradley (April 3).
Origin of the Tropical Forms of the Land Molluscan Fauna of Southern Florida.
— Dr. H. A. Pilsbry remarked that former writers on this fauna have treated the tropical area in Florida as an outlier of the Antillean zoological province.
The speaker recognized two groups of genera, of diverse origin: (1) Antillean genera, consisting chiefly of species also West Indian, such as Chondropoma, Liguus, Cepolis, Varicella, etc., concentrated southward, and unknown in the Floridian PUocene, and (2) Mexican genera, chiefly composed of species confined to Florida, such as Euglandina, Praticolella, Drymoeus of the dormani type, and apparently Polygyra, some of which are represented in the Floridian (Caloosahatchie) Pliocene.
The first group he regarded as recent additions to the fauna, which had reached Florida from Cuba and the Bahamas by the agency of hurricanes, drifting trees and the like.
The second group probably emigrated from the Southwest during the mild INIiocene climate, and entered peninsular Florida on the elevation marking the close of the Miocene.
The Oligocene fauna of the Tampa Silex beds, the speaker thought, had left no descendants.
Its snails were of wholly Antillean type, the lea ling Antillean genera of Helices, Cepolis and Plcurodontc both being represented.
Dr. Pilsbry alluded also to Prof. Alexander Agassiz's conclusion, that the Florida Keys are in process of diminution by solution of the limestone composing them.
The former unity of keys now separated accounts for the homoc'eneitv of their land-shell faunas.
Note on the Value of the Gastropod Apex as a Means of Classifieotion.
— Dr. Burnett Smith remarked that studies recently made among Tertiary and recent Gastropods tend to show that the importance of the "protoconch" as a means of generic discrimination has been greatly exaggerated.
An examination of the species of Pyrula with rounded whorls (P. ficus, P. papyratia, P. mississippiensis, P. condita, etc.)
has shown that with slight exceptions the chief specific modifications have been introduced not into the later adult whorls, but into the early whorls.
On tracing the genus back in time it is seen that on the whole the apices become smaller and the smooth whorls are more numerous.
Nevertheless we find that at the present day both the small (generalized) and the large (specialized) apices are found.
The Panamic form (P. decussata) is furnished with the primitive type of apex, while the Gulf and Caribbean representative (P. papyratia) has the large specialized apex with but one smooth whorl.
The Texas and Louisiana Lower Claiborne races of the species commonly known as Volutilithes petrosus constitute still another monophyletic assemblage, though in this case a more restricted one.
Here it has been observed that again the chief modifications are exhibited by the apical smooth stage, while the later ontogenetic stages remain relatively unchanged.
John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., spoke of the influence of chemicals on the development of the bud.
(No abstract.)
May 2L Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Thirty-eight persons present.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication : "The Polycystid Gregarines of the United States" (third contribution), by Howard Crawley (May 13).
"A New Species of Athleta and a Note on the Morphology of Athleta petrosa," by Burnett Smith (May 15).
"New and Little-known Whelks from Northern Japan and the Kuril Islands," by H. A. Pilsbry (May 16). "
The Distribution of the North American Gordiacea, with Description of a New Species," by Thomas H. Montgomery Jr. (May 21).
P. Chalmers Mitchell, of London, was elected a correspondent.
The following were ordered to be printed : DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF SPIONIFORM ANNELIDS.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
Tlie following descriptions of four species of Spionidae and one of i\Iagelonidae are based upon material mostly included in the collection of Polychoeta belonging to this Academy, and which, with one exception, was secm-ed by the writer in the region about Wood's Hole, Massachusetts.
Prionospio heterobranchia f^p.
nov.
This very interesting and distinct species is based iipon a single imperfect specimen lacking the posterior end , and having a length for the first 65 segments of 12 mm., and a maximum width at somite Ylll of less than 4 mm.
Form very slender, widest and depressed in the branchial region, thence tapering very gently into the very slender and suljterete posterior region.
Prostomium (Plate XV, fig.
1) elongated cuneiform, tapering behintl to a slender point which overlaps somite II and reaches to its posterior margin; lateral margins with slight concavities opposite the ej'es for the accommodation of the bases of the tentacular cirri; anterior margin entire and broadly rounded; a conspicuous median ridge begins just anterior to the eyes and, becoming more prominent, reaches to the posterior end of the prostomium, where it forms a slightly free and elevated process.
Eyes one pair, very large and conspicuous, elongated, black, situated close together at the sides of the median ridge and between the bases of the tentacular cirri.
No cephalic appendages.
Peristomium closely imited to prostomium, relatively small, somewhat pushed forward below as an oral papilla in the form of a truncated cone; at the sides and above embracing the prostomium laterally as slender, curved, lateral cephalic lobes much shorter than the prostomium and ending in roinided enlargements anterior to the attachment of the tentacular cirri, which have unfortunately been lost.
Proboscis protruded in the form of a short inverted cone with a somewhat crenulated border extending slightly beyond the prostomium.
Somites II to \T wider and much depressed ; \TI to X of the same width but becoming deeper; after X the segments become gradually more slender and terete and taper gently caudad.
Branchial segments very short, the others about § as long as wide and feebly marked.
Parapoclia of branchiate segments II to V large and conspicuous (figs.
2 and 3) ; both notopodia and neuropodia provided with large, foliaceous, postsetal laminae, usually overlapping or at least touching across the sinus; the former rising as a long dorsal process external to but quite free from the gill; the latter nearly circular, and in the case of the first one (II) apparently ^bearing a slender cirrus-like process on the ventral border.
Behind V the parapodia are much smaller and soon become reduced to the form shown in fig.
4, in which the notopodial and neuropodial postsetal lamellse have a similar form, but the former is twice the size of the latter.
Posteriorly they become still smaller.
Branchiae 5 pairs, on somites II to VI inclusive.
All large, exceeding the diameter of the body even in contraction, erect, and arising from the dorsum close to the notopodia.
The first pair (fig.
2) have a central stem containing a large vascular loop and ending in a slender, free filament.
The basal f of the stem is crowded, chiefly on the posterior and medial surface, with numerous slender, finger-like processes, each with a small vascular loop connected with the two limbs of the stem loop; free surfaces ciliated.
The last pair are similar, but the papillae are longer toward the base and distributed on all sides of the proximal f of the stem (fig.
5) .
The 2d and 3d (fig.
3) are simply flattened and ligulate, marked across the posterior face by numerous very fine transverse ridges which correspond with delicate branches uniting the two sides of the vascular loop.
The 4th is intermediate, resembling the last in form, but bearing a few filaments along its inner and posterior margin.
Anterior parapodia bear capillary setae exclusivelj^, arranged in shaggy, fan-shaped, vertical tufts in both rami, and curving outward and upward, the dorsal members of bundles on the branchial notopodia being especially long, and those of the first two exceeding the width of their respective somites.
They are all simple, with very narrow wings or none, and very acute.
Behind the branchial region the notopodials become gradually, and the neuropodials quickly, smaller and fewer.
At about XL 1 or 2 crochets appear in the notopodium along with several very long, thread-like, flexible setae.
Little further change occurs within the length of the specimen.
In the neuropodium crochets appear at XV ; at XXV there are C or 7 crochets alternating with as many very small, straight, delicate setae; at L there are about 10 crochets and a few still smaller setae.
Crochets (fig.
6) colorless, slender, terminated by 1 large and 3 or 4 small teeth, all enclosed in a spacious hood of two halves.
Body walls generally colorless and translucent, allowing the red blood in the anterior part and the olive-green intestine in the posterior part to show through ; tentacular cirri with a red central vessel and gills red throughout.
The type and only specimen (Coll.
A. N. S. P., No.
850) was dredged from the soft ooze at the bottom of the deepest part of the Eel Pond at Wood's Hole on August 4, 1902.
Several subsequent searches have failed to reveal any others.
Prionos'pio tenuis Verrill, the only species definitely described from our shores, has four minute eyes and four pairs of gills, of which the first only is branched, the others being foliaceous.
A larger specimen, probably representing a distinct species, is recorded as having all of the 4( ?)
pairs of branchiae lanceolate and pectinate posteriorly, with slender papillse.
Webster and Benedict record an undetermined species at Provincetown, Massachusetts.
The four or five European species are all easily distinguished by the characters of the prostomium, gills and crochets.
Numerous species of Polydora have been described from both sides of the Atlantic.
Eight species occur in the region about Wood's Hole, the following two of which are new^ and rather closely related.
Polydora anoculata sp.
nov. Form very slender and elongated, anterior half depressed and of nearly uniform width; posterior half gently tapered, nearly terete.
Length up to 20 mm., breadth at VI 35 mm.
Number of segments about 98.
Prostomium (Plate XV, figs.
7, 8 and 9) about 3 or 4 times as long as broad, not prolonged caudally beyond somite II, but truncate or broadly rounded ; anterior half abruptly bent downward, with a steep front; sides straight or slightly concave in anterior half; anterior end cleft medially, the halves diverging as a pahof rather prominent, short, rounded lobes, which may be drawn together or separated.
Eyes totally absent and no nuchal ridge nor nuchal cirrus.
Peristomium (figs.
7, 8 and 9) bounding mouth by a small simple posterior lip ; lateral cephalic lobes nearly meeting below, compressing the ventral portion of prostomium between them and extending as far forward as the base of anterior prostomial lobes.
Tentacular cirri arising from posterior dorsal region of peristomium, in contact with sides of prostomium, rather stout, length three or four times width of body, reaching to XIII or XV, constricted at base, then widened, then tapered to blunt tip, channeled for entu-e length, and much wrinkled transversely.
Segments all well marked, uniannulate, those of the anterior ^ 14 depressed, the remainder terete or subterete, strongly convex below, more or less flattened above ; the first 4 very short, about five times as wide as long, nearly straight laterally; the next (VI) enlarged, nearly twice as long as the preceding, strongly convex laterally, and widest in front.
The others gradually increase in length until the middle ones are ^ to f as long as wide.
Posteriorly they again become very short and close to the pygidium minute.
Pygidium (figs.
10 and 11) bearing a small, scarcely expanded, somewhat funnelform caudal disk as wide as the small posterior segments and less than one-half the greatest width of the body, the margin even, with only a very faint ventral emargination and a deep dorsal cleft which passes into the slight fecal groove.
Anus dorsal of the center, on a small papilla.
Parapodia of II with rami widely separated, the notopodium (fig.
7) immediately behind the base of the tentacular cirrus, and consisting of a minute setigerous tubercle and a short papilliform cirrus or postsetal lobe ; the neuropodium at the level of the notopodia of succeeding somites, but otherwise of normal form.
Succeeding parapodia are strictly lateral, with w^ell separated rami; the notopodia at first with rather large foliaceous, postsetal lamellae projecting dorsal, and after the gills appear gradually diminishing (fig.
12) ; neuropodia with longer lower postsetal lamellse which practically disappear after somite ^'II.
Branchise (fig.
12) appear on X on all specimens studied, the fii'st very small, and continue to LIII at least.
When best developed they are short, thick, digitiform and extend over the dorsum, meeting or nearly meeting in the middle line.
They have the usual structure.
Somites II-V and VII bear capillary setee only.
Notopodials of II 5 or 6, very slender, delicate, and wingless ; the others bear 4-6 longer, slender, slightly curved, and narrowly bilimbate dorsal setae, and about as many shorter, coarser, often twice-bent, bilimbate ventral setse.
Neuropodia bear 12 or 14 setse in 2 rows; they are similar to the notopodials, but, except on II, distinctly shorter and more strongly curved.
Behind VII the notopodal setse (figs.
13) are at first similar, but after the gills appear their number is reduced and they gradually become longer, more slender and straighter, those of posterior segments exceeding the diameter of the body.
No notopodial crochets.
Crochets appears in the neuropodia at VIII, which, like the next 3 or 4 segments, contains 2 or 3 accompanied by 1, or rarely 2, very delicate setae at the ventral end of the series; for the remainder of the length there are 3 or 4 crochets and no setse.
Crochets (fig.
17) are delicate, colorless, strongly bent near the end and provided with a stout tooth arising at a wide angle (about 110 degrees), and above it an accessory tooth; both 1907.]
XATIRAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELriH A.
199 enclosed in a delicate hood.
On VI from 4 to 6 sessile s]:)ines are arranged in a slightly oblique series, diminishing in size from above downward.
They (figs.
16 and 23) are pale yellow, rather slender, the blunt tips rather strongly hooked, a prominent subterminal s]>ur on one side, and a smaller one often on the other.
Cluard setae (fig.
15) form a row anterior to and alternating with the spines; when unworn they are broadly bilimbate at the end with a delicate and elongated mucron.
Overlapping the anterior-most spine from the dorsal side are 2 or 3 much larger bilimbate setae (fig.
14), abruptly bent and either truncate or mucronate at the tip.
A ventral posterior tuft beneath the last spine contains 4 or 5 much more delicate, nearl}straight setae, closely resembling the guard setae.
Color of intestine usually pale yellow; body walls translucent, without pigment; blood red, coloring the gills and other parts.
Known from the region about Wood's Hole only.
Uncommon.
Usually taken in association with colonies of Amarcecium jyellucidimi in 7-17 fathoms in Mneyard Sound.
Less often on piles among Cynthia in Little Harbor and with Polydora colonia at Mneyard Haven.
Type Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., No.
2,338.
A specimen taken on July 14th contained nearly mature eggs.
Polydora colonia sp.
nov. Form elongated and very slender, resembling P. anoculata and of about the same size or rather smaller.
Number of somites unknown.
Length of head and 38 somites 6 mm., width at ^T 3 mm.
Depressed anteriorly, subterete farther back.
Prostomium (Plate XV, fig.
18) elongated ; anterior half with straight sides and of nearly uniform width, posterior half tapering into a nuchal ridge which ends in a blunt point at the posterior margin of IV; anterior margin broadly rounded, entire or slightly emarginate.
Eyes usually totally absent, but occasionally a small collection, or two, of pigment, as in the specimen figured.
Peristomium united with prostomium and somite II, forming a simple posterior lip and a pair of prominent lateral cephalic lobes much shorter than prostomium.
Tentacular cirri attached to dorsum of lateral cephalic lobes, not constricting prostomium.
The basal half has the usual structure and .proportions, but the distal half, probably owing to maceration, is very slender and elongated, the total length being about 7 times the width of \1 (fig.
18).
The next four segments are very short and much depressed; \1 is nearly[^as long as the three preceding segments, strongly convex and furrowed laterally, widest anteriorly.
Succeeding segments rapidly increase in length until by XIII they are f as long as wide, becoming also subterete, strongly convex below and somewhat flattened above.
Pj'gidium unknown.
Except the first (on II) the parapodia are larger than usual.
That of II consists of a minute notopodial setigerous tubercle and papilliform postsetal lobe immediately behind the base of the tentacular cirrus, and a small neuropodium situated at the level of the notopodia of succeeding segments.
Succeeding parapodia have prominent foliaceous postsetal lamellae on both rami, but with the appearance of crochets on VIII the neuropodium becomes much reduced.
Gills begin on VIII or sometimes IX and continue to XXVIII, at least, arising from the dorsum in contact with the base of the notopodium; form subcylindrical, rather short, apparently never long enough to meet across the back, but their bases connected or nearly connected by a low, ciliated, delicate, transverse fold.
Setae of II few and very small, the notopodials only 3 or 4, very slender and delicate, the neuropodials 6 or 8, short, slightly curved and narrowly bilimbate.
Succeeding notopodial setae rather conspicuous and numerous for the genus, anteriorly about 18-20, arranged in 2 rows, the dorsalmost (fig.
19a) longest and rising prominently over the back, narrowly bilimbate, very slender and little curved, the ventralmost (fig.
196) much shorter, often doubly curved, with much broader wings and acute awn-like tips.
Toward the middle of the body the number decreases and all the setae become more slender and elongated.
Anterior neuropodials also in two vertical rows of usually 6 or 7 each, all smaller and more strongly curved than the notopodials .
Crochets appear abruptly in the nem-opodium of VIII and never, so far as observed, are accompanied by capillary setae.
Anteriorly there are 3, farther back 5 or rarely even 6.
They are colorless, slender, with a long acute beak and slender erect accessory tooth and are enclosed distahy in a delicate hood, composed of a pair of well separated guards (fig.
22).
On somite VI there are almost invariably three (in only one case out of many fovu-) pale yellow spines in a strictly vertical row (figs.
20, 21).
They are straight, slightly enlarged at the end where they bear a principal and an accessory blunt, straight, conical tooth, below which, on the posterior face, is a half-round sheath ending in a free border on the side of the small tooth and forming a flange encircling the base of the large tooth on the opposite side (figs.
20a and 21).
On the anterior side of these spines and alternating with them are a corresponding number of broadly bilimbate setae, and a group of 3 or 4 similar and perfectly straight setae lies just dorsad of the spines.
Ven1007.]
XATl RAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHIA.
201 tral ami slightly anterior to the lowermost is a second group of similar but much smaller sctjc (fig.
20).
Lives abundantly in colonies formed of soft mucoid tubes covered with fine silt in the interstices of tunicates and sponges on wharf piles in the harbor of Vineyard Haven, ^Massachusetts.
Individual tubes are less than 1 mm.
in diameter and from 20-30 mm.
long.
Hundreds of them are inextricably intertwined and cemented together with mucous , forming masses 1 or 2 inches in diameter.
Specimens taken at the end of July contain large eggs which begin at somite XVI or XVII.
The type is No.
2324 (Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.).
Unfortunately all of the numerous specimens were preserved in the tubes and are more or less macerated and the posterior ends lost.
The seta>, however, and especially the spines and associated setae on VI, are perfectly characteristic and serve to distinguish the species completely from any European or American species.
Magelona rosea sp.
nov. Form very slender, body slightly depressed anteriorly, tapering very gradually and subquadrate posteriorly.
Length 40 mm., greatest width 1 mm.
Number of segments about 95.
Prostomiimi and peristomium completely coalesced to form a head (Plate XM, fig.
24) of a broad ovoid form, about ^ long erthan broad l>ut capable of nnich greater elongation during life.
A pair of dorsal cephalic ridges, in contact metlialiy, extend for nearly the entire length of the head, tapering to acute points anteriorly, and near the end suddenly diverging, leaving a thin triangular area between.
Anterior and lateral portions of prostomium formed by a thin but rigid shovellike expansion marked on the dorsal surface by a number of delicate raised sub-parallel lines.
No prostomial appendages and no eyes.
Peristomium dorsally consisting of the posterior portion of the cephalic ridges and a pair of prominent lateral lobes, again subdivided by a groove extending from the posterior margin; ventrally a simple ring bounding the mouth behind.
Tentacular cirri (fig.
24) arising from the sides of the peristomium above the mouth and beneath the margins of the prostomial plate.
They are 8 mm.
long, reaching somite XX, delicate, and tapering, the lateral surface covered with very fine and close transverse ridges, the medial with somewhat coarser but still very small papillie which increase in length to the distal half where they are as long as the diameter of the cirrus.
Proboscis soft, bulbous, protruded to half the length of the head and marked with numerous fine longitudinal parallel ridges.
Metastomium slender and of nearly equal diameter throughout, only the anterior 8 segments and the tapered caudal end being distinctly narrower; margins of body even and regular, the parapodia being small and inconspicuous and arising from small, slightly depressed rings; segments more or less distinctly divided into dorsal, ventral and lateral fields by longitudinal furrows above and below the parapodia, the latter forming interpodal wrinkled glandular areas, and the ventral field divided by a median neural groove, which becomes obscure posteriorly.
Anterior region, consisting of peristomium and nine podous segments, separated from the posterior region b}^ a deep annular groove in which the ninth pair of parapodia lie (fig.
24) ; its segments somewhat narrower than those of the posterior region and without distinct intersegmental furrows, the distance between successive parapodia about f the width.
Ventral median field occupied by a series of slightly overlapping, segmental ventral plates, which become smaller from in front caudad and are divided into halves by the neural groove; lateral fields distinctly bounded and much furrowed transversel3\ Distinct glandular bands or half-rings extend across the dorsum between the parapodia, and several small and irregular transverse furrows mark the dorsum and sides of each segment, dividing it imperfectly into about 3 incomplete rings.
Posterior region slightly wider than the anterior and consisting of 84 or 85 segments; first segment very short, but the others increasing in length until they are about half as long as wide; ventral field distinctly wider than dorsal, without ventral plates and divided by a deep ventral groove.
Throughout most of this region the parapodia lie in the deeper furrows, and a shallower furrow is only obscurely indicated a short distance caudad to each pair.
Farther back it becomes clear that the segments are biannulate and that the parapodia lie between the larger anterior and smaller posterior annulus.
Pygidium very small, oljlique, with the anus dorsal and covered by a broad flat papilla; below and behind the anus a pair of small, slender cirri, often replaced by a pair of minute papillae.
Parapodia all biramous and more or less foliaceous, the first 9 pairs with capillary setse only, the others with, crochets only in both rami.
The first 8 pairs consist of winglike, foliaceous, postsetal lamince, the notopodial being somewhat broader and strongly curved ventrad to meet the neuropodial, which is longer and projects more directly laterad ; both somewhat contracted at the base to form a stem, which bears the spreading, fan-shaped tufts of setse, the neuropodial being somewhat the larger.
The ninth parapodium (fig.
26) is similar but rather larger and has a more extensive series of setse.
In the posterior region the neuropodia and notopodia consist of \ertical ridges, each bearing a series of lS-20 crochets and ending in minute notopodial and neuro])odial cirri, while from their contiguous ends arise foliaceous expansions borne on short stems (figs.
27-29).
These expansions increase somewhat in size to the middle of the body and bending toward each other overlap broadly, but farther back they become much reduced in size and the cirri disappear, simultaneously with an increase in the number of crochets.
Setse of both rami of the first nine pairs of parapodia (II-X) all capillary, colorless, moderately slender, not greatly elongated, with curved and tapered stems very delicately bordered by margins which are broad on the concave and narrow on the convex side; arranged in one regularly spaced series of from 15 to 30 and spreading in a broad fan-shaped figure.
Except that they are slightly longer, the notopodials differ in no noticeable respect from the neuropodials, and except that they are rather longer, more numerous and in part arranged in double series, those of the tenth somite are exactly like the preceding ones.
Posterior to somite X both rami bear hooded crochets only, in simple series facing each other; anteriorly each series contains 15 to 20, posteriorly as many as 30.
They (fig.
30) are little exposed, colorless, slightly tapered distally, w^here they terminate in an abruptly hooked blunt beak, surmounted by a smaller tooth and enclosed in a pair of wide guards.
Color translucent white, the intestine varying from buff to greenishbrown, pharynx salmon pink, both showing through body walls; blood madder pinlv, especially conspicuous in the tentacular cirri which contain a large vascular loop.
Specimens taken during the latter part of August contain nearly ripe eggs in the middle segments of the body.
Type No.
1677, Coll.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Lives in sand at and below low w^ater, forming soft sand tubes under stones, etc.
As the worm crawls the pharynx is everted as a tumid fold or bulb reaching half the length of the head, the ventral median part being most prominent and marked by delicate longitudinal furrows.
This species has been found only on a sandy beach, chiefl}^ below^ low water, in a little shallow bay on the Buzzard's Bay side of Wood's Hole.
Prof. E. A. Andrews found it at the same place about ten years before it came to my notice, and has described a specimen under the name of M. papillicornis Miiller.
The remarkable larvae have been described by Fewkes (as Prionospio tenuis) from Newport, and by Andrews from Beaufort, N. C, and Wood's Hole.
'■^ Magelona papillicornis was originally described by Fritz Miiller in 1858 from specimens taken off the coast of Brazil.
Since then it has been repeatedly recorded from various parts of Europe, and because of its remarkable characters has been much studied.
As mentioned above, Andrews was the fii'st to recognize Magelona on the coast of North America.
More recently Johnson has described a very distinct species from Puget Sound.
Hitherto the North Atlantic species has always been considered identical with the Brazilian species, the very noteworthy difference in the color of the blood of the two having been curiously overlooked .
Miiller describes his species as having pale violet blood, whereas all specimens from the North Atlantic have madder pink blood.
IMiiller's description is very brief, and the other characters mentioned are generic only.
It is quite probable that when the Brazilian species is better known other characters than the color of the blood will be found to distinguish it from ours.
Comparison of Wood's Hole specimens with the excellent figures of parapodia given by Mcintosh and Mesnil make it clear that the European species again is quite distinct from ours and will require to be named.
The most obvious difference is that the setse of the tenth somite of the former are provided with a bulbous terminal enlargement and small process, while those of M. rosea are unmodified.
Spionides japonicus sp.
nov.
Known from the anterior end only.
Size large, probably not less than 4 or 5 inches long, moderately slender.
The type, consisting of the head and 44 setigerous somites, is 25 mm.
long and 2.5 mm.
wide.
A fragment from the postbranchial region indicates a still larger worm, having a width of nearly 4 mm.
Prostomium (Plate XVI, fig.
31) flattened, subtriangular, nearly as broad as long, the base anterior; anterior margin very broad, divided into a low, wide, median lobe and a pair of narrow, bluntly rounded lateral lobes directed toward the sides; lateral margins concave, meeting in the blunt, rounded apex which is slightly elevated and bears a slender, suberect nuchal cirrus, behind which a low, narrow ridge continues along the dorsum.
Eyes 1 pair, large, conspicuous, reddishbrown, crescentic, situated at a slight widening behind the middle of the prostomium; just anterior to each of them is a curved series of small reddish-brown pigment specks.
Peristomium forming lower lips and lateral cephalic lobes; the latter small, rounded laterally and becoming very narrow posteriorly, where they disappear l^eneath the prostomium just behind the level of the eyes.
Tentacular cirri missing, their faint scars of attachment on the dorsum of the lateral lobes just anterior to the level of the eyes.
Body segments short and rather indistinctly defined ; much concealed by the foliaceous parts of the parapodia; body rather strongly depressed, gently convex above and below.
Parapodia very conspicuous, so large that they completely envelop the body and give somewhat the appearance of a series of thin disks strong upon an excentric band.
They are very broadly attached and the two rami nearly continuous, with extended setigerous tubercles, low presetal lobes, and very large and foliaceous postsetal lamellae.
The first (fig.
31) is relatively small and lies by the side of the prostomium, the posterior part of which is crossed by the notopodial setae.
On the next few both postsetal lamellse increase rapidly in size, the notopodial soon predominating over the neuropodial and extending dorsalty and ventrally.
In this region the neuropodial lamella (fig.
32) is formed much like the quadrant of a circular disk, and the notopodial lamella like a narrow palette, broadly rounded above and with an auricular process below which is absent or little developed in the most anterior parapodia.
The notopodial lamellae meet or overlap medially and touch the neuropodial lamella below.
After somite XXX the notopodium gradually becomes smaller and withdraws from the dorsum.
By XXX^TII it is strictly lateral and its postsetal lamellae is no larger than that of the neuropodium, and leaves the dorsum entirely exposed.
Simultaneously with this change a delicate transverse integumental fold appears on the dorsum, connecting the bases of the notopodial lamelke of the two sides.
At first quite insignificant, these increase in height as the branchiae diminish and by XLII their lateral parts are nearly half as high as the lamellae which they connect, but the medial part is much lower.
The first 3 pairs of ])arapodia are free, but all others are united continuously along each side by a thin lateral fold of integument, which is attached to the sides of the body ventrally and whose dorsal border is free between the parapodia but attached to each neuropodium for the full height of its base and for a short distance above it.
Thus is formed a series of deep interpodal pockets widely open above.
Branchiae arise from the dorsum just above the base of the notopodial lamella from III to XLII inclusive, largely concealed behind the medial ends of the lamellae.
The first 2 or 3 are rather small, but they soon increase in size and rise erect far above the notopodial lamellae.
The last 10 gradually diminish before they finally disappear.
Typical branchiae (fig.
32) are more or less flattened, ligulate, tapered and iinbranched.
They contain large axial Ijlood vessels, from which pinnate loops branch on either side, corresponding with slight surface plications.
Capillary setse alone are found on both rami of parapodia of the branchial region.
They form broad spreading fan-shaped tufts and are very numerous (40 or more notopodials and even more neuropodials) and arranged in two vertical rows, a long seta of the posterior being always paired with[|a shorter one of the anterior row ; much the longest and most slender in dorsal part of notopodium, stouter in ventral part of both rami.
All setse are pale yellow with tapering, longitudinally striated stems finely granulated on the surface, with more or less prolonged and delicate tips and the more or less well developed wings or margins directed toward the middle part of the foot on both rami (fig.
33).
Wings best developed on dorsal neuropodial and ventral notopodial setse, the marginal setse of both bundles nearly lacking them.
Notopodial setse of II very small and delicate, those of the two sides crossing over the prostomium.
As the foliaceous structures and gills become smaller the setse also become smaller and fewer.
Crochets appear in the ventral portion of the series on neuropodia of the postbranchial region.
There are 2 on XLI and 6 on XLIII.
They (fig.
24) are nearly colorless, rather slender, delicately striated longitudinally, the tips gracefully hooked, with a stout beak surmounted by an accessory process, both enclosed in a delicate hood conforming to their contour.
The type is No.l, 055, Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
; found with Aricia fimhriata, taken at Albatross Station, No.
5,771, off Honshu, Japan, on June 5, 1900; 61 fathoms; bottoms of green sandy mud.
From the type of the genus, S. cirratus Webster and Benedict, known only from Eastport, Maine, this species differs in having numerous pairs of gills beginning on III, instead of 13 pairs only beginning on IV, in having 1 pair of large eyes instead of 2 pairs of small ones, and in the much larger size.
Explanation of Plates XV, XVI.
Plate XV.
— Pi-ionnspio heterobrnnchia — figs.
1 to 6.
Fig.
1.
— Dorsal aspect of head and somite II, sliowing scars of attachment for tentacular cirri and gills.
X 40.
Fig.
2.
— Anterior aspect of parapodimii II wdth seta?
and detached gill of other side.
X 98.
Fig.
3.
— Similar view of parapodium and gill of IV, without sette, X 98.
Only a few of the transverse bloodvessels and external ridges are shown.
Fig.
4.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium X. X 98.
Fig.
.5.
— Posterior aspect of detached gill of VI.
X 98.
Fig.
6.
— A crochet from neuropodium of L. X 600.
Pohjdora anoculala — figs.
7 to 17.
Fig.
7.
— Dorsal aspect of head and first G setigerous somites, one tentacular cirrus in place.
X 50.
Fig.
8.
— Dorsal aspect of head and 2 setigerous somites of another specimen.
X 5G.
Fig.
9.
— Ventral aspect of same.
X 56.
Fig.
10.
— Dorsal aspect of pygidium and posterior somites.
X 56.
Fig.
11.
— Ventral aspect of pvgidium.
X 56.
Fig.
12.— Parapodium XV.
"^X 83.
Fig.
13.
— Dorsal (a) and \-entral (b) notopodial seta?
from XV.
X 440.
Fig.
14.
— Strongly bent seta from dorsal tuft of YI.
X 440.
Fig.
15.— Guard seta from VI.
X 440.
Fig.
16.
— Three spines from VI, a and 6 from young, c from adult (type) specimen.
X 440.
Fig.
17.'
— Profile and face ^'ie\vs of neuropodial crochet from XV.
X 600.
Pohjdora colonia — figs.
IS to 23.
Fig.
18.
— Dorsal aspect of head and first 6 setigerous somites, one tentacular cirrus in place.
X 56.
Fig.
19.
— Dorsal (a) and ventral (6) notopodial seta?
from XV.
X 440.
Fig.
20.
— Anterior and ventral ■view, showing all of the spines and setse of one side of "\'I under shght pressure, a the reverse or postero-dorsal aspect of the end of one of the spines.
X 440.
Fig.
21.
— Profile of one of the spines from somite VI of a larger specimen.
X 440.
Fig.
22.
— Profile and face views of a crocliet from XV.
X 600.
Fig.
23.
— "\^ariati()ns in the form of the spines on somite VI of Pohjdora anoculata.
X 440.
Pl.^te XVI.
— Magelona rosea — figs.
24 to 30.
Fig.
24.
— Dorsal aspect of head and anterior region, showing the right tentacular cirrus in outUne and the left complete.
X 9.
Fig.
25.
— 'N'entral aspect of anterior end, showng bases of tentacular cirri, partly everted proboscis and ventral plates.
X 24.
Figs.
26-29.
— Outlines of parapodia X from the anterior side, all except fig.
27 ^^^th sette or crochets.
X 56.
Fig.
30.
— Two crochets from somite L, striations omitted from one.
X 440.
Spionides japonicus — figs.
31 to 34.
Fig.
31.
— Dorsal aspect of head, lacking tentacular cirri, and first two setigerous somites with setse.
X 24.
Fig.
32.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium XV, -vsith setie, the concealed portion of the gill sho'mi in dotted outline.
X 24.
Fig.
33.
— A pair of middle notopodial setse from XV.
X 98; a, a small portion, X 440.
Fig.
34.
— An entire crochet from tlie neuropodium of XL, X 2.50; and distal end of the same, X 440. a contribution to the morphology of pyrula.
by burnett smith.
Introduction.
At the pi'csent day the genus Pyrula^ is made up of a small number of species and these, though differing from one another somewhat, are nevertheless all very much alike.
The thin shell, cancellated sculpture, low spire and long anterior siphon are common to them all.
There is no exaggeration in saying that nowhere among the marine gastropods do we find a set of species which are with better reason arranged in one generic group.
They are indeed distinctly monophyletic.
On examining the fossil Pj'rulas we find that the genus gives us a homogeneous series of species ranging back in time well into the Eocene.
It is true that Pyrula is seldom a common fossil in any formation, and likewise it does not furnish us with great series of closely related races which follow^ one another in the rocks of any continuous geological section.
Nevertheless the very homogeneity of the scattered fossil species comes to our aid.
Their distinctly peculiar shell characters are always present, just as in the widely distributed living forms.
The.
desire to deal with a group w^hose monophyletic nature is above suspicion has led the author to exclude from the present paper many Eocene and earlier species which are usually assigned to the genus.
Not a few of these may be indeed very close to Pyrula, but the present paper has for its object the recording of the changes which a monophyletic assemblage of species actually exhibits when w^e trace its members through the different episodes of the time range and from one geographical province to another.
Still other early species appear to be referable to Pyrula, but the preservation of the specimens is not good, and this is an essential for a proper understanding of the shell sculpture and apical characters.
These forms also must be omitted.
^ This paper is intended merely as a study of some of the morphologic changes in a monophyletic group and makes no pretense of being a systematic re\'ision oi the genus.
Most of the specific tj^pes are either undesignated, lost or vmavailable, and the author has learned by experience that the average published figure of a species of Pyrula is extremely unreliable.
For these reasons the propriety of using the generic name Pyrula is not here considered, and the classification in Tryon's Manual of Conchology has been followed in discussing the recent forms.
In dealing with the fossil species references are given in each case.
1907.]
natural sciences of philadelphia, 209 Morphology.
Among the species of Pyrida (as here restricted) the similarity of their grosser morphologic features is evident at a glance.
The shell is always light and thin, the whorls are as a rule very evenly rounded and always increase rapidly in size, the spire is low and each whorl rises high on its predecessor.
This latter feature often makes the top of the shell appear quite flat.
Contrasted with the low spire, the branchial siphon is much produced anteriorly and often slightly curved.
The shell is, in fact, roughly pear-shaped. '
.
.
It is, however, only when the finer features of the ornamentation are studied that we realize the unusual constancy of the genus.
The early whorls are smooth, and this smooth stage may occupy from one (or even less than one) to two and three-quarters or even three whorls.^ The smooth stage is followed rather sharply by the fine ribs and spirals of the cancellated stage.
Perhaps, on the whole, the spirals appear a little earlier in life than do the ribs, but this is not a marked feature.
The cancellated stage persists in all the species to the end of shell growth.
At first there is but one set of spirals, but later secondary sets appear between the primary spirals.
Still finer sets of spirals are introduced with the course of the ontogeny.
Sometimes by the end of the last whorl the secondary and later spirals may have acquired about the same strength as the original primary spirals, though it is more common for the primary spirals to be strongest, with the other sets fainter and fainter according to the order in which they are introduced into the ontogeny, the last sets introduced being faintest.
On their first appearance the ribs and the primary spirals are of about equal strength, but in the later whorls the primary spirals are as a rule considerably stronger than the ribs.
Exceptionally the ribs on the later whorls may be as strong as the primary spirals.
To give any idea of the morphologic features which now serve, and have in the past served, to differentiate the species we must employ unusual methods.
Ordinary descriptions fail to convey the meaning.
It has therefore been thought best to use tables for the purpose.
In these tables the two major ontogenetic stages are represented by the letter A for the smooth stage and B for the cancellated stage.
These stages are marked off on the line of the ontogeny as they appear in the different whorls.
The nimibers stand for the whorls. '
Sections of the apex iu P. papijratia Saj', show that it is filled with a secondary limy deposit.
210 P. papyratia.
Kecent.
Florida, etc.
P. decnssata.
Kecent.
Western Central America.
P. dussumieri.
Recent.
China.
P. ficus.
Recent.
East Indies.
P. reticulata.
Recent.
East Indies.
P. reticulata.
Recent.
Cargados Islands.
P. tessellata.
Recent.
Rosemary Islands, Australia.
P. papyratia.
Recent.
Florida, etc.
P. papyratia caloosahatchiensis.
Pliocene.
Florida.
P. papyratia.
Waccamaw Pliocene.
South Carolina.
P. pilsbryi duplinensis.
Miocene.
North Carolina.
P. pilsbryi.
Oligocene (or Miocene).
Jamaica.
P. mississippiensis.
Oligocene.
V i c k s burg.
Miss.
P. filia.
Eocene.
J a c k s[o n, Miss.
Table I.
[May, 6 A B / ^ B A 1 B A 1 1 B A 1 1 B A 1 1 B A| 1 B 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 A R A 1 R A 1 1 B A 1 1 E ( A 1 1 B 1 A I \ A 1 B ( Table II.
P. condita.
Miocene, France.
Dax, P. pilsbryi.
Oligocene (or Miocene).
Jamaica.
P.
carbaseaC!).
Oligocene (or Miocene).
S. Domingo.
P. mississippiensis.
Oligocene.
Vicksburg, Miss.
A 1 J^ A 1 1 B A 1 B ^ A i Table III.
Tabic I gives a representation of the ontogenetic features of the recent species.
Pyrula decussata Wood and Pyrula ficus Linn, are the most clear-cut and distinctive species as regards the ornamentation in the cancellated stage.
Pyrula decussata is distinguished by its strong primary spirals, while P. ficus has flat, weak spirals and very faint ribs.
Pyrula dussumicri Valenc.
is^markcd by its long slender form and the relatively high spire.
In their apical features Pyrula decussata, P. ficus and P. dussumieri are all very much alike.
The smooth stage occupies about 1.6-2 whorls and these early whorls are small.
Among the forms commonly grouped as Pyrula reticulata Lam.
there is much variation.
How much of this is individual and how much racial or specific it is impossible to say with the present data.
They all have relatively strong ribbing, and this together with spirals of about the same strength gives them a much more conspicuously cancellated appearance than is seen in any other recent species.
1\\ this Pyrula reticulata assemblage the smooth stage occupies from 1.3 to 1.75 whorls and the first whorl varies not a little in size.
These forms strongly recall Pyrula condita Brongniart^ of the European Miocene in the sculpture of the cancellated stage.
It is probable that more accurate collections will necessitate the division of P. reticulata into separate geographical races or species.
Pyrula tessellata Kobelt is a small type which differs from all others in the peculiar character of its apex.
The cancellated stage has been thrown so far back in the ontogeny that little more than the globular beginning of the fii'st whorl is smooth.
This smooth portion is large and swollen.
In fact P. tessellata is, in its apical characters, the most abnormal of any of the Pyrulas.
On comparing Pyrula papijratia Say with the other species we find that it is essentially similar to them as regards its cancellated stage.
When, however, the apex is examined it is seen to be sharply distinguishable from all other recent forms.
The smooth stage is restricted to about one whorl and this whorl is large and swollen.
In this respect P. papyratia is only surpassed by P. tessellata.Table I demonstrates clearly that we may have living at one time on the earth's surface a number of very closely related forms which show markedly different degrees of acceleration and much variation in the apex.
Table II illustrates the changes shown by some of the American ' See Cossmann, Essais de Pal6oconchologie Comparee, pt.
V, pi.
VI, fig.
7. species when they are traced from the Jackson Eocene clown to the present time.
To obtain a good idea of this series it is perhaps best to consider first the more recent forms.
As stated above, the Uving PyruJa papyratia is chiefly notable for its large and swollen apex, the smooth stage being confined to one whorl.
The cancellated stage is in no way unusual.
To find an ancestor for the Pyrula papyratia of Florida seas we naturally look in the Pliocene of the Gulf and other Southern States.
A form w^hich has been referred to P. papyratia'^ is furnished by the Floridian Pliocene, and another shell from the Pliocene Waccamaw beds of South Carolina has been likewise regarded as specifically identical with it.
A critical study of the Florida Pliocene form demonstrates that it is extremely close to the recent species.
In fact its cancellated stage is similar in every respect.
The apex is likewise almost the same, but differs in having the cancellated stage begin a little later in the ontogeny.
The first whorl is also perhaps a trifle smaller in the fossil form.
Altogether this Florida Pliocene type is specifically identical with the recent P. papyratia.
Nevertheless the author believes that it may with propriety be designated as the subspecies Pyrula papyratia caloosahatchiensis.
The Waccamaw Pliocene forms have an apex similar to that of P. papyratia caloosahatchiensis.
The individuals examined are, however, all immatm'e, and it is therefore impossible to note the sculpture of the later cancellated stage.
It is probable that a better series of specimens will establish the identity of this race with the one from the Florida Pliocene.
In the Miocene beds of the United States Pyrula appears to be a rather uncommon fossil.
From the Calvert Miocene of Maryland Martin has described Pyrula harrisi.^ He says that good examples are rare.
I have had no opportunity to examine specimens of this species, but it appears from the figure to be well removed from the P. papyratia stock.
In the very full collection of the Wagner Free Institute of Science (Philadelphia) is a specimen collected in Duplin County, North Carolina, by Mr. Charles W. Johnson.
It has been referred to P. papyratia.
On a close examination of this form, however, it is evident that we must assign to it a separate specific name.
It is also plainly distinct from the Maryland P. harrisi.
It is by its apical characters that this North Carolina species is distinguished from the Pliocene and recent P. papyratia.
The smooth stage occupies about 1.5 ^ See Dall, Trans.
Wag.
Inst., Ill, p. 1G3.
* Md.
Geol.
Stirv.
Miocene, p. 226, pi.
LV, fig.
3.
1907.]
213 whorls and the first whorl is small, and not large and swollen as in P. papyrotia.
In these respects it is more closely allied to most other Miocene forms and to some of the recent species of the Indo-Pacific region.
It is especially near to the form from the Oligocene (or Miocene) beds of Santo Domingo which Gabb" refers to P. papyratia.
I have examined Gabb's specimens and find them to be identical with the better preserved forms from the Oligocene (or Miocene) beds of Bowden, Jamaica.
In their apical characters they are all clearly distinct from P. poprjratia.
I have selected the Bowden race as typical of this new species; the t}q:)e specimen for the following description being one of the lot numbered 11,144 in the collection]of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelpliia.
Pyrula pilsbryi n. s. Locality.
— Bowden, Jamaica, W. I.
Horizon.
— Bowden beds, Oligocene (or Miocene).
Whorl 1.
— Smooth and rounded.
Whorl 2.
— Smooth and rounded for about one-half or three-quarters of a whorl, and then the cancellated stage with its fine ribs and spirals sets in.
Whorl 3.
— Cancellated stage.
Fine ribs and spirals.
Wniorls 4, 5.
— Cancellated stage, with secondary sets of spirals ^:^Sx, Fi^.
1.
— Pyrula pilsbryi n.s.
Bowdoii Fig.
2.
— Pyrula pilsbryi duplinensis.
beds.
Bowden, Jamaica.
Lengtli Miocene.
Duplin County, North = 42 mm.
Carolina. '
"Topography and Geology of Santo Domingo," Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc, Vol.
1.5, p. 223, 18S1.
15 introduced between the primary spirals.
Other still finer spirals are introduced with the progress of the ontogeny.
The primary spirals are the strongest, while those sets of spirals introduced latest are weakest.
Remarks.
— P. pilshryi is much like the Duplin form in its apical features, but differs from it in the relatively weaker primary spirals which do not dominate the later intercalated spirals to any great extent.
For the North Carolina form the name Pyrula pilshryi duplinensis is here proposed.
The Vicksburg species Pyrula mississippiensis Conrad,^ it will be noticed, has the first three whorls occupied by the smooth stage.
The first whorl is also smaller than in P. pilshryi.
In the Jackson Eocene a species, probably Pyrula filia Meyer,' has, like the Vicksburg form, a small first whorl and the smooth stage takes up at least 2.5 whorls.
It is a little more accelerated than the later Vicksburg species.
This emphasizes the fact that a less accelerated and specialized race does not always underlie the more specialized race.
Nevertheless we can say that on the whole Table II shows us a gradual acceleration of the features of the cancellated stage as we trace the different types from the Eocene to the present day.
This acceleration is accompanied by a gradual enlargement of the first whorl until we reach the culmination of this feature in the recent Pyrula papyratia.
Another exception to this gradual development is furnished by the form from the Santo Domingo Oligocene (or Miocene) which Gab!)
referred to Pyrula 'mississippie7isis.
This reference^ is entirely incorrect, for Gabb's specimen has a very large swollen apex with not more than one smooth whorl.
It is fully as accelerated as P. papyratia in this respect, but it cannot be ancestral to the recent species on account ' See Ficus mississippiensis Con., J. Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 2d ser., Vol.
1, p. 117.
* Bericht ilber Senckenbergische nafnrforschende Gesellschaft in Frankfurt a. M ., 1887, Ficula filia Meyer, p. 8, Taf.
I, fig.
10.
I make this reference -mth some doubt. '
See Gabb, in Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc, Vol.
15, p. 223.
Gabb considered Guppy's Ficula carbasea as a synonym for Conrad's Ficus 7nississippie7isis.
He says: "I have compared Mr. Guppy's shell with Mr. Conrad's original specimens from Vicksburg, Mississippi, and find them identical in form and sculpture.
I am by no means sure that this should not be considered the same as F, decussatus {F. ventricosus) , the common west coast Mexican form."
It can, of course, be neither P. mississippiensis nor P. decussata, and as it resembles Guppy's figure I have referred it to P. carbasea.
Guppy's type I have not seen.
of the great strcngthoiiiiip; of its primary spirals.
In this respect it resembles the Panamic P. dccussata.
The imspecialized apex of P. dccussata is, however, sufficient to prechide a derivation from this fossil Santo Domingan form.
Altogether this latter appears to be an early departure from the stock of the generalized Pyrulas of the Oligocene and Miocene.
It probably has no descendants in later beds.
I have referred it with some doubt to Pyrula carbasca Guppy.
*° Table III shows that the apex was as variable in the Eocene, Oligocene, and Miocene as at the present day.
The great length of the smooth stage and slight acceleration of the cancellated stage are noteworlliy features of this group of species.
It is only in P.
carhasea(?)
that the smooth stage is short and restricted.
Range and Distribution.
The genus Pyrula as restricted in this paper ranges from the late Eocene to the present day.
Earlier in the Eocene we encounter an abundance of forms which appear to be closely related to the species here considered.
Their inclusion in the present study would, it is believed, throw some doubt on the nionoi)hylctic nature of the group.
Their consideration is therefore delayed, so that wc may be able to observe the changes in a series which obviously can be referred to only one generic stock.
In the Jackson Eocene and in the later Vicksburg beds the species are remarkable for the great length of the smooth stage and for the small size of the earl}' whorls.
The same cliaracteristics are also to be observed in the European Miocene Pyrula condita.
The three species P. filia of the Jackson Eocene, P. niississippicnsis of the Mcksburg beds, and P. condita of the ]\Iioccne of Europe all (>x]iil)it similar apical features.
They represent the most primiti\-o expression of the Pyrula assemblage which the geological record furnishes.
In the Oligocene (or Miocene) deposits of Bowden, Jamaica, we find Pyrula pUsbryi, and in the Miocene of Xortli Carolina occurs P. pilsbryl duplincnsis.
Both are very much alike as to the characters of the smooth stage.
In them it is more restricted than in P. condita or in the American Vicksburg and Jackson types.
In other words, the cancellated stage is thrown farther back into the ontogeny.
In addition, the early whorls have now become larger in size.
Altogether P. pilsbryi is very similar in its early whorls to P. dccussata, P. dussumicri, P. ficus, and some specimens of P. reticulata.
These three latter species ^^Ficula carbasea Q. J. Geol.
Soc.
Land., 1S6G, Vol.
22, p. 580. are living to-day in the Indo-Pacific region.
In its apical features, then, P. pilshryi has attained about the same evolutional grade as several of the recent forms.
Nevertheless there is in the Oligocene or Miocene at least one exception to the general prevalence of the primitive apex.
This is furnished by the Pyrida far6asm(?
), which in addition to the feature already mentioned has a specialized adult sculpture that marks it as an early offshoot from the main stock, and it is probably also a terminal member of such an offshoot.
Passing over this aberrant form, we find that in the Pliocene rocks of North America the smooth stage is still further restricted and the apex 3'et larger, for there is at least one subspecies of Pyrula jxipyratia.
It is more primitive than the recent P. papyratia, for the first whorl is hardly as large and the cancellated stage is not quite so accelerated as in the recent form.
It is very close and must be regarded as ancestral to P. papyratia of the modern Florida seas.
In American rocks, then, we have an excellent series showing the gradual acceleration of the sculpture and the increase in size of the early whorls.
With the exception of P. mississippiensis and P. carbasea this American series represents a good morphological succession, and from P. pilshryi to the living P. papyratia we can reasonably assume a phylogenetic succession as well.
The solution of the ancestry for the present day species of the Indian and Pacific Oceans can hardly be attempted with the meager data at our command.
Pyrula decussata, P. dussumieri, and P. ficus probably owe their origin to some such generalized types as we have seen in the American Eocene and the European jMiocene.
Just how long their separate specific stocks have been distinct it is impossible to say.
The forms described as P. reticulata probably represent a group of geographical races which have arrived at different stages of evolution.
Some of them are very like Pyrula condita of the Miocene, for the ribs are strong and, equalling the primary spirals, impart a markedly cancellated appearance to the shell.
Pyrida tesscllata of Australian seas represents an offshoot from the primitive stock.
It has become distinctive by its large swollen apex and the encroachment upward of each whorl high on its predecessor; but its ribbing is relatively strong, the sculpture of its cancellated stage being primitive.
A point of great interest is the succession of morphological features which has taken place in the Gulf and Caribbean region with the progress of the Tertiary.
Pyrula pilshryi is more specialized than the Eocene forms, but less specialized than the later races which are l'.
)()7.J NATUHAL SCIKXCKS OF I'lII LADKI.I'HI A.
217 grouped together as P. papyratia.
When we compare P. pilshryi with P. (kcussata of the Panamic geographical province we find that the Pacific form is distinct in its later whorls, but very similar to the fossils in the characters of its apex.
Altogether this evidence points to free communication between the Atlantic and Pacific basins during Miocene time, a time when most Pyrulas possessed the primitive type of apex.
With the end of the Miocene this strait betw^een the two oceans was closed by the elevation of the land bridge which has ever since connected the continents of North and South America.
From the time when this barrier was interposed down to the present the forms of the Caribbean and Gulf regions have undergone a striking evolution, marked by the accleration of the cancellated stage and the enlargement of the initial whorl.
On the other hand, the forms inhabiting the waters on the Pacific side of the isthmus have retained the ancient apical features of the Miocene.
Summary.
The assemblage of forms treated in this paper is particularly well adapted for showing the mutations and variations of a gastropod stock.
In order that the results may be of value it is essential that the group be a restricted one.
Pyrula, or at least that part of the genus here considered, fulfills the above conditions.
The distinctions between its species are so slight, and they are all so unlike the examples of other genera, that we may well feel that they constitute a single genetic stock.
In addition to the slight but more apparent specific differences furnished by the cancellated stage we have the differences exhibited by the apices.
If we trace the members of the genus back into the Tertiary, we find every gradation between the two extremes of apical modification.
The more important changes Avhich have taken place since the late Eocene are found not so much in the adult sculpture as in the features of the apex.
We have, especially in America, a regular series, beginning with forms having a smooth stage of two or three whorls, followed by species in which the smooth stage is more restricted, and finally terminating in Pyrula papyratia of Gulf and Caribbean waters, whose smooth stage does not persist beyond the close of the first whorl.
This change from the twoor three-whorled smooth stage to the one-whorled smooth stage is accompanied throughout by the gradual enlargement of the early whorls.
The more restricted the smooth stage becomes the larger grows the initial whorl.
If we examine the recent species of Py7'ida,\xe find here again different apical characters which can visually be duplicated in the fossil forms of the American rocks.
For instance, though their adult sculptures may differ, the recent species P. decussata and P. dussumieri and the Oligocene (or Miocene) P. pilshryi all possess a very similar style of apex.
At the present day the genus is widely distributed in the shallow waters of the tropical seas.
Though these seas are now separated by land barriers, it is probable that in Eocene, Oligocene and Miocene times the marine connections between the different provinces were much more prominent features of the geography.
Then, in all likelihood, the genus had a continuous distribution around the world; and even where land barriers were interposed near the equator, it is probable that a more generally moderate climate enabled its representatives to pass through latitudes where now their existence would be impossible.
The differences between Pyrula dussumieri of China and P. decussata of the west coast of Central America were probably produced by some change which forbade the intermingling of the inhabitants of the two provinces.
At present the deep water of the tropical Pacific and the colder climate in the shallower parts of that ocean are both sufficient barriers to keep the species apart.
Wliether their separation w^as originally caused by a change of climate in higher latitudes, or b}' a depression in some part of the bottom of the tropical Pacific, or by the working of both of these factors, it is, of course, impossible to say.
The relations of Pyrula decussata with P. papyratia are probably more certain.
In the Oligocene and Miocene the Pyrulas with the generalized apex had a free passage between the Atlantic and Pacific basins, and there was no differentiation into two geographical provinces.
With the close of the Miocene the land barrier of the Isthmus of Panama was thrown up, the two oceans were separated and two geographical provinces created.
After this the forms of the eastern waters, for some unknown reason, followed out a line of evolution which w^as chief!}"
marked by apical modifications, while the Pacific forms changed slightly in the cancellated stage but retained the old Miocene type of apex.
Perhaps the most important points emphasized by this study are the following: (1) We may have living at any one time on the earth's surface an assemblage of closely related gastropod species which differ to a marked degree in the evolutional grades which they have attained.
(2) In a group of closely related gastropod species the chief modifications which are introduced with the passage of time may occur iJiainly in the features of the early ivhorls, while the later adult ivhorls inay re^nain relatively unchanged.
(3) In this particular grou}) of species the differences in tlie apical characters cannot be used for the division of the assemblage into separate genera," but are of use only as aids to specific discrimination, and then only when the characters of the later whorls are considered together with those of the apex.
Explanation of Plate XVII.
Fig.
1.
— Apex of Pijrula papyratia Say.
Recent.
Lee County, Fla, Shows the smooth stage restricted to the large and swollen first whorl.
The cancellated stage starts with the beginning of the second whorl.
Greatest diameter = 3.2 mm.
Fig.
2.
— Apex of Pyrula papyratia cahosahatchiensis.
Pliocene.
Caloosahatchie River, Fla.
Here the cancellated stage is hardly as accelerated as in fig.
1.
Greatest diameter = 3.2 mm.
Fig.
3.
— Apex of Pyrula pilsbryi dupUnensis.
Miocene.
Duplin County, N. C. The smooth stage occupies about 1.5 whorls.
Here the initial whorl is smaller than in figs.
1 and 2.
P^ig.
4.
— Apex of Pyrula pilsbryi n. s. Oligocene (or Miocene).
Bowden, Jamaica.
Smooth stage occupying about 1.75 whorls.
Greatest diameter = 3 mm.
Fig.
5.
— Apex of Pyrula mississippiensis Con.
Oligocene.
Vicksburg Beds, Vicksburg, Miss.
Here the initial whorl is much smaller than in P. pilsbryi and the smooth stage extends over three whorls.
Greatest diameter = 3.5 mm.
Fig.
6.
— Apex of Pyrula filia Meyer.
Eocene.
.Jackson Beds, Jackson, Miss.
Smooth stage of about 2.5 whorls.
Greatest diameter = 3.5 mm.
Fig.
7.
— Apex of Pyrula decussata Wood.
Recent.
Acapulco.
Smooth stage of about 2 whorls.
Greatest diameter = 2.8 mm.
Fig.
8.
— Apex of Pyrula dussumieri Valenc.
Recent.
China.
Smooth stage of about 1.6 whorls.
Greatest diameter = 3 mm.
Fig.
9.
— Apex of Pyrula ficus Linn.
Recent.
East Indies.
Smooth stage of about 1.7 whorls.
Greatest diameter = 2.6 mm. "
See Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
New South Wales, 1905, Pt.
II, p. 325, "Notes on Prosobrancliiata.
No.
IV — The Ontogenetic Stages represented by the Gastropod Protoconch," by H. Leighton Kesteven.
On p. 334 he saj's: "The protoconch is to be used in conjunction -vNith other features, and that only wliere the other features, anatomic or conchological, are negative or unkno\vn is it to be used in deciding a systematic position or generic segregation."
THE POLYCYSTID GREGARINES OF THE UNITED STATES (Third Contribution).
BY HOWARD CRAWLEY.
In 1853 Leidy described a gregarine parasite of the common cricket.
To this animal he gave the name of Gregarina achetoe-ahhreviatce, the host being at that time known as Acheta ahbreviata.
The parasite was illustrated by figs.
32-34 of Leidy's plate 11.
In my first communication on our gregarines (Crawley, 1903) I reproduced two of Leidy's figures, and based my description partly upon these and partly upon his text.
A glance at these figures, Nos.
34 and 35 of my paper, will suggest at once that they portray different species of gregarines, and studies which I made during the summer of 1906 show that this is so.
For the animal shown in Leidy's fig.
34, copied in my fig.
35, I have retained the name given by Leidy, while the other is tentatively placed in the genus Stenophora.
I have also considered it advisable to redescribe Gregarina achetce-ahbreviatce, and have given a new figure, a camera outline from a living solitary gregarine.
Gregarina aolietse-abbreviatae Leidy.
(PI.
XVin, fig.
1.)
Gregarina achetoe-abbreviatoe Leidy (1853), p. 238, pi.
11, fig.
34.
Gregarina achetoe-abbreviatoe Crawley (1903), p. 45, pi.
3, fig.
35.
Gregarina achetoe abbreriatoe Crawley (1903o), pp.
639, 641.
Protomerite.
— Hemispherical to globular, broader than long.
Shape modified in the associations.
Deutomerite.
— Ellipsoidal to oval.
Epiajte.
— Thin, delicately striated.
Sarcocyte.
— Thin, but present all over the animal.
Myocyte.
— Easily demonstrated by the use of reagents.
Entocyte.
— Dense, but, following the usual rule, less dense in the protomerite than in the deutomerite.
In most of the specimens which I'encountered, the peripheral part of the entocyte was almost free of granules; this phenomenon being much more conspicuous in the deutomerite than in the protomerite.
Nucleus.
— Not seen.
Size.
— The largest solitary animal I saw was 500 microns long.
Habit.
— Solitary or associated in pairs.
Cysts.
— Spherical, provided with a thick gelatinous envelope Diameter of cyst mass, 225-275 microns.
Thickness of gelatinous envelope, 30-300 microns.
Dehiscence by sporoducts, 2-5 in number, reaching a length of 1,000 microns.
Prior to evagination, the situation of the sporodiicts is ])lainly indicated liy the appearance around the periphery of the cyst of dense discoid masses.
These are yellowish in color, owin^to the presence of oil.
Time required for maturation, 1-4 days.
.Spores.— Cylindrical, with rounded ends to dolifirm.
Dimensions, 4.5 by 2.25 microns.
Host.
— Gn/Uus abbrcviatus Serv.
Locality.— ]^each Haven, New Jersey, and Wyncote, Pennsylvania.
Stenophora erratioa sp.
n. (PL XVIII, flg.
5.)
Grcgarina achetoe ahhreviatw Leidy (1853), p. 238, pi.
11, fig.
33.
Gregarina achetce abbreviatoe Crawlej^ (1903), p. 45, pi.
3, fig.
34.
The general form of this gregarine is shown in fig.
5, which was drawn from a young individual, 150 microns long.
In the older animals, while the protomerite is much as here shown, although at times relatively shorter, the deutomerite varies considerably in shape.
In some its outline is an elongated ellipse, while in others it is broadest near the posterior end, tapering slowl}^ and gradually forward to the septum.
The largest animal seen was 500 microns long.
The epicyte shows distinctly a double contour, and is 1.5 microns thick.
The sarcocyte is present all over the animal, and reaches a thickness of 2.5 microns.
At the anterior tip of the protomerite, the ectosarc is often thickened to form a low papilla, wathin which are traces of a pore.
It is this character which led me to place the gregarine in the genus Stenophora.
The entocyte is dense, except in the anterior third of the protomerite, where it is almost free of granules.
These gregarines are not at all polymorphic, but almost constantly display the progressive movement.
They are by no means infrequent in crickets, but always present in small numbers.
The suggestion is permissible that this form is actually the common Stenophora julipusiUi Leidy, somewhat altered in appearance from being in the wrong host.
Crickets and Julida?
frequently occur in the same environment, and the former might readily swallow spores derived from the feces of the latter.
This done, the spores might readily develop, although producing slightly atypical gregarines.
There is an excellent field here for experimental work.
In addition to the two forms considered above, the cricket harbors a third, a true Gregarina, which is herewith described.
Gregarina kingi' sp.
n. (PL XVIII, ligs.
10-12.)
Protomerite.
— In the primites, the protomerite, as seen in fig.
10, ' To Dr. H. D. King.
is sometimes saddle-shaped.
While this peculiarity of contour is not always so striking as here shown, the protomerite is always broad and swollen in front, and much narrower behind.
This serves to separate this species from Gregarina achetoe-ahhreviatoe.
In the satellites, the protomerite is subspherical to compressed.
Deutomerite.
— Cylindrical, generally somewhat broader in front.
Outlines often irregular.
Epicyte.
— Very delicate.
Sarcocyte.
— Feebly developed, except in the anterior part of the protomerite, where there is a conspicuous crescentic thickening.
According to my observations, this character was more marked in the younger than in the older animals.
Entocyte.
— Not dense.
Nucleus.
— Moderate in size.
Size.
— Largest pair seen, 350 microns long.
Habit.
— Nearly always associated in pairs.
Satellite generally slightly and sometimes considerably smaller than the primite.
When the connection between a pair is broken, the anterior sm^face of the protomerite of the satellite shows a slightly raised ring.
Thus the posterior end of the primite fits into a very shallow saucer on the anterior end of the satellite.
Movements.
— The gregarines seen were more or less constantly bending and contracting, but showed little or no disposition to progress.
Cysts.
— Round, occasionally oval.
The cyst mass varies from 90110 microns in diameter.
There is a cuticular wall 6-7 microns thick, outside of which a gelatinous envelope develops.
In newly formed cysts, taken from the mid-gut of the host, the gelatinous envelope is so diaphanous as to appear merely as a halo round the dense central mass.
But in cj^sts taken from the feces in the hind-gut, the gelatinous envelope is much more evident.
This change in appearance is doubtless merely due to the accumulation of detritus.
Of the cysts found in the host intestine, some are uniformly opaque, with a clear space just inside the cuticle.
Others are less opaque, sometimes mottled; sometimes with an irregular dense central mass and a clear periphery.
These different aspects represent different developmental stages, and indicate that maturation is rapid in this species.
This was confirmed by the behavior of cysts placed on slides in a moist chamber.
A considerable number, many of which had just formed, were so isolated on July 2, and all were found to have dehisced on July 4, no observation having been taken on July 3.
The period is thus 1-2 days, which is in close agreement with that of Gregarina achetoe-ahhreviatoe.
1'.>U7.]
XATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PIIILAUKLPHIA.
223 Dehiscence is by a single sporoduct, which may reach a length of 750 microns.
A discharged cyst is shown in fig.
12.
The residuum is a loose mass of granules and debris which nearly fills the cavity within.
The duct is limited externally by a cuticular wall.
Within it is filled by a soft substance, through the center of wliich can be seen the lumen along which the spores had passed.
This lumen, however, shows no definitive membrane, being merely a channel through this soft substance, which is probably of the same nature as the residuum.
In one case observed, the spores still la}' in situ as they had been projected from the duct.
The duct was 600 microns long; the file of spores 2,400.
Hence the leading spore had reached a distance of 3 millimeters from the cyst.
In consideration, however, of the size and activity of the host, it is not easy to see how the scattering of the spores over such an infinitesimal area can cut much of a figure in their dissemination.
Spores.
— Rounded cylinders or barrel-shaped.
Dimensions, 5 by 2.75 microns.
Host.
— Gryllus ahbreviatus Serv.
The gregarines occurred in perhaps 25 per cent, of the crickets opened.
But when present, they are present in countless numbers, compact masses of gregarines as large as peas being found.
It does not seem likely that such extensive infections can be due merely to the chance picking up of stray spores.
More probably we have here to do either with cannibalism or the devouring of dead comrades.
Gregarina melanopli sp.
n. (PI.
XVin, figs.
C-9.)
Protomeritc.
— In the young solitary animals, the protomerite is cubical, with rounded corners, to mammaliform, and often shows in front a low, broad projection.
In the associated gregarines, it has the form of a greatly compressed hemisphere.
Deutomerite.
— In the young, cylindrical to flask-shaped.
There is generally a slight constriction in the middle.
In the pairs, cylindrical, but with a very variable ratio of length to breadth.
Two cases are shown in figs.
8 and 9, which are camera outlines of li\'ing gregarines.
Epicyte.
— Longitudinally striated.
The following measurements of its thickness are taken from a large pair: Primite.
— Anterior tip of protomerite 5 microns.
Sides of protomerite 5 " Sides of deutomerite 1-2 ^ " Satellite.— Anterior corners of protomerite 3 microns.
Sides of deutomerite 1-2 " Posterior end of deutomerite 4 " Sarcocyte.
— Differentiated into an outer hyaline and an inner granular layer.
Its thickness in the various parts of the same large pair from which the above measurements of the epicyte were taken is given in the following table : Primite.
— Front of protomerite 15 microns.
Sides of protomerite 5 " Sides of deutomerite 10 " Satellite.
— Anterior corners of protomerite 16 microns.
Sides of deutomerite 10-12 Posterior end of deutomerite 6 '' It may be noted here that in those parts where the epicyte thickens, the sarcocyte thins.
A like condition has been noted by Leger for Amphoroides polydesmi.
Entocyte.
— Very dense.
Tinged with brownish yellow.
The nucleus shows merely as a lighter area.
Size.
— The solitary animals ranged in length from 200-370 microns.
The lengths of a number of pairs, in microns, are given in the appended list: Priynite.
Satellite.
Total.
675 750 1425 640 710 1350 600 750 1350 600 710 1310 600 700 1300 525 500 1025 420 450 870 The first was the largest pair seen.
In nearly all cases, the primite was the shorter and broader animal.
Habit.
— The gregarines, according to the particular host examined, were either nearly all solitary or nearly all associated.
I examined, however, but very few locusts ; so cannot say if this^be the rule.
In one, in which I found some fifty pairs, they occurred in an almost solid mass in the host's intestine, gradually separating when placed upon the slide.
Movements.
— The animals are somewhat polymorphic, undergoing fairly extensive changes of shape.
Such changes, however, were always effected very slowly.
They also progressed in curves and straight lines, but in a most leisurely manner.
Host.
— Mela nop!
us femoral us (Burm.).
Locality.
— Wyncote, Pennsylvania.
As with his G. achcloe-abbreviatoe, so with his G. locustoe-curolinaz , Leidy (1853) seems to have described two species under one name.
]\Iy observations of the summer of 1906 show that the host in question, Dissostcira Carolina (L.), then known as Locusta Carolina, is infected by two gregarines.
One of these is in all probability a true Gregarina, and I believe Leidy's figs.
35 and 36 to be representations of it.
On the other hand, his fig.
37 is probably a Stephanophora, and it has been placed in that genus by me (Crawley, 1903).
The confusion seems best cleared up by retaining Leidy's name for the true Gregarina, and creating a new one for the Stephanophora.
The two species are defined below.
Gregarina looustae-carolinsB Leidy.
(PL XVIII, fig.
13.)
Gregarina locustoE-carolinoe Leidj^ (1853), p. 239, pi.
11, figs.
35, 36.
Gregarina locustoe-carolinoe Leidy (185G), p. 47.
Gregarina fimbriata Diessing (1859), p. 730.
Gregarina locusfoe-carolina; Labbe (1899), p. 35.
Stephanophora locustae-carolina; Crawley (1903), p. oi.
Epimerite.
— A small rounded knob, cut off from the protomerite by a very short neck.
The epicyte of the epimerite is continuous with that of the protomerite, and does not intervene between the two segments, the boundary between which is formed by the sarcocyte of the protomerite.
A small quantity of entocyte is present.
Protomerite.
— Globular in the cephalonts, and nearly so in the sporonts.
Posterior boundary plane.
Deutomerite.
— Globular to oval or even cylindrical in the cephalonts.
Oval to cylindrical in the sporonts.
Epicyte.
— Shows a double contour.
Sarcocyte.
— In the cephalonts and very small sporonts, well developed, especially in the anterior part of the protomerite.
Entocyte.
— Pale.
This applies to the young animals; my notes being silent as to its condition in the adults.
Nucleus.
— Large, with one large karyosome.
Size.
— The largest animal seen was 350 microns long.
The appearance of this individual, however, did not suggest full maturity.
The cephalonts were 100-110 microns long.
Decapitation takes place early.
Quite a number of small gregarines were seen, all about 100 microns long, the youthfulness of which was plainly indicated by their transparency, and fully half had lost their epimerites.
Host.
— Dissosteira Carolina (L.).
Locality.
— ^Wyncote, Pennsylvania.
Stephanophora pachyderma sp.
n. (PI.
XVIII, figs.
2, 3.)
Grcgarina locustoe-carolinoe Leidy (1853), p. 239, pi.
11, figs.
37, 38.
Gregarina locustoe-carolinoe Leidy (1856), p. 47.
Gregarina fimbriata Diessing (1859), p. 730.
Gregarina locustoe-carolinoe Labbe (1899), p. 35.
Stephanophora locustce-carolinoe Crawley (1903), p. 54.
Epimerite.
— Consists of a cylindrical piece, bearing in front a number of forwardly directed digitiform processes.
Separated from the proto-merite by a mere constriction, no definitive neck being formed.
Protomerite.
— In the cephalonts, consisting of a cylindrical basal portion, narrowing regularly in front to the base of the epimerite.
This anterior conical part, which makes up one-half the length of the protomerite, is composed entirely of ectosarc.
In the sporonts, almost perfectly hemispherical, with its contour continuous with that of the deutomerite.
Deutomerite.
— In the cephalonts, lanceolate, with a blunt posterior end.
Broader than the protomerite, and broadest just behind the septum.
There is scarcely a constriction between the two.
In the sporonts, heart-shaped.
.
Epicyte.
— ^Thickness 2-3 microns.
The thickness is essentially uniform over the entire gregarine, except for a small region at the anterior tip of the protomerite.
Here the epicyte thickens on its inner surface, making a small indentation into the sarcocyte.
Sarcocyte.
— Always very thick.
In the cephalonts, making up onehalf the length of the protomerite.
On account of the change of shape which follows decapitation, the sarcocyte is more conspicuous in the protomerite of the cephalonts than in that of the sporonts.
Yet even in the latter, it here measures 30 microns, which is reduced to 12 microns elsewhere.
Entocyte.
— In the sporonts, black in transmitted light in the deutomerite.
Not quite so dense in the protomerite, and here showing a relatively clear space, as indicated in fig.
3.
Nucleus.— ¥ airly large, with a number of karyosomes.
Size.
— The largest sporont seen was 500 microns long.
Host.
— Dissosteira Carolina (L.).
Locality.
— Wyncote, Pennsylvania.
The perfectly oval shape of this last species, sometimes disguised by their habit of holding the long axis bent, is probably normal.
Yet one balloon-shaped specimen was seen.
The animals are present only sparingly in the infected locusts, and occur in both the mid-gut and p3doric cieca.
One specimen was observed which showed behind it a gelatinous stalk, such as described by Schewiakoff (1S94), and considered by him to furnish the means for the progressive movement.
This stalk, although differing but very slightly in refractive index from the water, could plainly be seen.
Since, however, the stalk was carried about Ijy the gregarine as a mammal carries its tail, the sole influence it could have possibly had upon progression would have been that of a hindrance.
The actual extrusion of the substance of this stalk was not witnessed , but that the gregarines were liberally provided with some kind of a gelatinous matter was demonstrated by killing them with iodine.
Animals so killed showed, on their surfaces, great numbers of small globules.
I have finally to describe a Geniorhynchiis, probably distinct from the European form.
Geniorhynolius aeshnae sp.
n. (I'l.
XVIII, fig.
4.)
Epimerite.
— Consists of an ellipsoidal or globular head, borne on a short neck which may be considerably swollen.
The head is liberally provided with short spines, directed backward.
Protomerite.
— Large, having the form of a truncated cone with slightly curved contours.
Broader than the deutomerite.
Deutomerite.
— Conical to cylindrical, terminating bluntly.
The posterior fourth generally showed, in the cases observed, one or more deep constrictions, which underwent slow changes.
Epicyte.
— Thin, longitudhially striated.
Sarcocyte.
— Well developed.
In the protomerite, it is enormously thickened, occupying the anterior third of the segment as a solid mass, which rapidly thins out behind.
It here contains a few small granules.
Entocyte.
— Not especially dense, and usually thinning out considerably toward the surface.
Nucleus.
— Shows several irregularl}^ shaped karyosomes.
Size.
— 420 microns long.
Host.
— Nymph of JEshna constricta Sa}'.
Locality.
— Southeastern Pennsylvania.
228 proceedings of the academy of [may, Bibliography.
Crawley, Howard.
1903.
List of the Polycystid Gregarines of the United States.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Phila., January, 1903, pp.
41-58, pis.
1-3.
Crawley, Howard.
1903a.
The Polycystid Gregarines of the United Sates.
(Second Contribution.)
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Phila., October, 1903, pp.
632-644, pi.
30.
DiESSiNG, C. M. 1859.
Revision der Rhvngodeen.
Sitz.
Wien Akad., Bd.
37, pp.
719-782.
L.\BBE, A.
1899.
Das Tierreich; 5 Lief., Sj^orozoa.
Berlin, R. Friedlander und Sohn, 1899.
Leidy, Joseph.
1853.
On the Organization of the genus Gregarina of Diifour.
Trans.
Amer.
Phil.
Society, Vol.
10, N. S., pp.
233-241, pis.
11, 12.
Leidy, Joseph.
1856.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Phila., Vol.
8, p. 47 (verbal communication).
ScHEWiAKOFF, V. 1894.
Ueber die Ursache der fortschreitenden Bewegung der Gregarinen.
Zeitschr.
/.
iviss.
zooL, Bd.
58, pp.
340-354, Taf.
20, 21.
Explanation of Plate XVIII.
Fig.
1.
— Gregarina achetoe-abbreviatoe (p. 220).
Camera outline of sporont.
Fig.
2.
— Stephanophora pachyderma (p. 226).
Cephalont.
Fig.
3.
— Stephanophora pachyderma (p. 226).
Sporont.
Fig.
4.
— Geniorhynchus oeschnoe (p. 227).
Cephalont.
Pig.
5.
— Stenophora erratica (p. 221).
Young sporont.
Figs.
6, 7.
— Gregarina melanopli (p. 223).
Young solitary sporonts.
Figs.
8, 9.
— Gregarina melanopli (p. 223).
Camera outlines of two pairs.
Figs.
10, 11.
— Gregarina kingi (p. 223).
Paired individuals.
Fig.
12.
— Gregarina kingi (p. 221).
Discharged c^'st.
Only the basal oortion of the sporoduct is shown.
Fig.
13.
— Gregarina locustoe-carolina (p. 225).
Cephalont a new species of athleta and a note on the morphology of athleta petrosa.
by burnett smith.
Introduction.
■ Though the present paper is intended primarily to show some of the variations and mutations exhibited by one of our Eocene Volutoid stocks, recent work in nomenclature has necessitated certain changes of generic names, and therefore a brief explanation of these changes is essential to a proper understanding of the forms here considered.
In April, 1906, Dr. DalP called attention to the fact that the type of Swainson's genus Volutilithes is not Voluta spinosa (which had been previously accepted by most authors), but Voluta muricina Lam.
A similar observation was made by Mr. R. Bullen Newton^ in June, 1906.
Taking Voluta muricina as the type for the genus Volutilithes, it is plainly evident that such forms as Voluta spinosa of Lamarck and Vohita petrosa of Conrad must be furnished with a separate generic designation and not included in the genus Volutilithes.
In selecting a name for these forms the writer has followed the suggestions of M. Cossmann^ and revived Conrad's Athleta.
* The type of Athleta is the European Athleta rarispina.
The forms studied in the present paper are all either specifically identical with or else closely related to Conrad's Voluta petrosa, which for so many years has been familiar to American palaeontologists as Volutilithes petrosus.
As the author has recently stated,^ the study of large and carefully collected series from the Gulf States has convinced him that the forms described as Athleta tuomeyi by Conrad are nothing but races of his Voluta petrosa which have been subjected to an unfavorable environment.
"They are of one genetic stock, and the differences can in no sense be regarded as generic; in fact they are not even specific."
' The Nautilus, "Xote on some Names in the Volutidte," p. 143. '
"Note on Swainson's Genus Volutilithes," Proc.
Maine.
Soc.
Land., June, 1906, p. 100. '
Revue Critique de Paleozoologie, p. 222, Oct., 1900.
* "Svnopsis of the Genus Cassidula and of a proposed new genus Athleta," Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sri.
Philn., Vol.
VI, 1852-3.
* The Xautihis.
March, 1907, p. 131.
U) Now AthJeta rarispina certainly has generic affinity with both Conrad's Athleta tuomeyi and Lamarck's Voluta spinosa.
When we compare Lamarck's Voluta spinosa and Conrad's Voluta petrosa, no differences M^hich can be regarded as other than specific are observed.
We have therefore at least four species of Athleta, two American and two European.
The two American are connected by every gradation of intermediate and cannot be considered as specifically distinct.
The European forms are separate species.^ In spite, therefore, of minor morphologic differences, and of discrepancies in the time range and in the geographical distribution, we must regard these forms as belonging to one generic group and apply the name Athleta to them all.
Athleta petrosa would then include both Voluta petrosa and Athleta tuomeyi; the value of the designation tuomeyi should, however, in no case be more than subspecific.
The assemblages which may be grouped under the specific name Athleta petrosa are widely distributed in our Gulf Eocene.
The race from any particular locality or bed usually differs from other races, but nevertheless all of them possess so many characters in common that further specific division would be inadvisable.
Every individual gradation and not a few racial gradations may be found to connect the normal Athleta petrosa with the abnormal Athleta petrosa tuomeyi.
As far as the author knows, it is only at two localities that we find forms associated with Athleta petrosa which, though closely related, must be considered as distinct species.^ The cases in question are at Claiborne,.
Alabama, where the closely related associate species is Athleta sayana, and at St. Maurice, Louisiana, where the closely related associate is here designated as the new species Athleta clayi.
The races of Athleta petrosa and their allies from the AlabamaMississippi region have been considered in a previous paper.
^ In their case, thanks to the work of Prof. Eugene A. Smith and Mr. Lawrence C. Johnson,^ it is possible to arrange the races in chronologic order.
In the present study the races discussed are mostly from the Eocene beds west of the Mississippi River, and unfortunately the ° Dr. Dall {Trans.
Wag.
Inst., Vol.
3, p. 75) says: "In America, however, the deposition of calkis never became normal and regular, though in Europe .4. rarispina and A. ficulina Lam.
exhibit a normal.
Cassis-like expansion around the aperture of what, without it, is a typical Volutilithes."
At this time Dr. Dall regarded Voluta spinosa as the type of Vobitilithes. '
Volutilithes precursor oi Dall and Volutilithes dallioi Harris.though in the same genus with Athleta petrosa, are not very nearly related to it.
*"Ph}4ogeny of the Races of Volutilithes petrosus," Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., May, 1906, p. .52.
* Bull.
43, U. S. G. S., "Tertiary and Cretaceous Starta of the Tuscaloosa, Tombigbee, and Alabama Rivers," Eugene A. Smith and Lawrence C. Johnson.
stratigraphy of the minor divisions is there only poorly understood.
The researches of Prof. Gilbert D. Harris have, it is true, done much to make clear the succession in Louisiana and Texas; but it is still impossible to ascertain the relations of the less important beds with each other or with their time equivalents in the standard sections of Alabama.
In this western Gulf region we have three well defined formations in which Athleta petrosa and its allies occur.
These are the Lignitic, Lower Claiborne and Jackson.
Morphology.
As with the races from the Alabama sections, we find that the Athleta petrosa assemblage from any one locality or horizon is apt to differ more or less from that found at another locality or horizon.
Not infrequently certain individuals of a race will depart to some extent from the racial norm, but these make usually but a small minority of the assemblage.
"In other words, the majority of specimens from any one locality or horizon show a certain stage of evolution."
Throughout the present paper the author has used the same terms which were employed in dealing with the Alabama forms.
As before we have the smooth stage, curved rib stage, cancellated stage, spiny stage and senile stage.
The senile and spiny stages may be separate or associated together in the same whorl.
Rib, spiral, tubercle, spine, etc., are all used in the same sense, and the end of the fu'st whorl is again placed (arbitrarily, of course) in the same position.
Athleta petrosa tuomeyi.
Sabinetowui Race.
Locality.
— Sabinetown, Texas.
Horizon.
— Lignitic beds.
This series is small and the individuals are poorly preserved.
There are no very young ones, and the shelly overgrowth produced by the protruded mantle is very extreme in the old individuals.
This, together with the poor state of preservation, renders detailed morphologic work impossible.
These forms are typically senile, the most marked feature being the monstrous shelly overgrowth which results from the protrusion of the mantle onto the preceding whorl.
In addition they arc very small and dwarfed.
They resemble closely the Hatchetigbee forms of Alabama, but are even more extreme and dwarfed.
If they are members of the same senile phylogenetic series which we find in Alabama they are indeed descendants of the Hatchetigbee Bluff Race.
They may, however, be synchronous with any one of the Alabama senile groups, and be merely the expression of conditions which were much more unfavorable than those influencing the more eastern assemblages during Lignitic time.^'' Athleta petrosa.
Lower Claiborne Races.
In the Alabama sections we find forms representing in a general way the Athleta petrosa main stock at a date as early as the Nanafalia Lignitic.
In the western Gulf region no such normal types are known to the author from below the horizon of the Lower Claiborne beds.
In other words the Lignitic forms from Texas, etc., are (as far as observed) abnormal, and even these senile representatives are rare.
No evidence of the presence of these abnormal members has yet been presented by the sediments found above the Lignitic beds of this region.
The Lower Claiborne races of Athleta petrosa, then, may all be grouped as members of the Athleta petrosa main stock.
As a rule each locality is characterized by a single, comparatively homogeneous race, the great majority of whose individuals differs more or less in certain minor characters from the races of other localities.
Exceptionally, however, we find two very slightly different strains in the assemblage from a given place.
These insignificant peculiarities may sometimes, be important in locating the probable ancestry of later forms.
iVgain, in a few places we find a well-defined race of Athleta petrosa accompanied by a very closely allied derived form, which has departed enough from its parent stock to be described as a distinct species.
The Lower Claiborne of Ijouisiana and Texas furnishes many good collecting grounds which afford excellent material for exhibiting the variations and mutations of Athleta petrosa.
Nine localities which offer large series of well-preserved specimens have been selected, antl the developmental shell stages of their races have been arranged in tabulated form.
With the exception of Moseley Feny all the localities chosen have comparatively homogeneous races of Athleta petrosa.
At iMoseley Ferry there are, howfever, two well-marked strains of Athleta petrosa.
These two strains are very close, but one is of interest as foreshadowing the characters of the Jackson and Montgomery races of • later time.
It is greatly to be regretted that our knowledge of the stratigraphy will not permit us to arrange the Lower Claiborne races in chronologic order. '"
The Sabinetown beds have usually been correlated with the Wood's Bluff beds of Alabama.
See Gilbert D. Harris and A. C. 'S'eatch, Geol.
Surv.
La., Rep. V, 1899, p. 67, and also A. C. Veatcli, Geol.
Surv.
La., 1902, p. 125. i9o: 233 In the following tables the figures stand for the whorl, while the letters are used for the different ontogenetic stages as follows: A — Smooth stage.
D— Spiny stage.
B — Curved rib stage.
E — Senile stage.
!
C — Cancellated stage.
I — Individual variation.
1 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 Mount Lebanon, La.
Lewis House, two miles east of Alto, Tex.
Nine miles southeast of Jewett, Tex.
Smithville, Tex.
Hurricane Bavou, Hou>tonCo.,Tex.
Alabama Bluff, Trinity River, Houston Co., Tex.
Shipp's Ford, Bastrop Co., Tex.
Moseley Ferry, Tex.
Moseley Ferry (Jackson Strain).
St. Maurice, La.
A A A A A A A A A gB li II B B B -H^ B B -HD D II D D D D D a D Table I.
— Showing variability in the Icnjith of tlie smooth stage and relative constancy in the beginning of the spiny stage in the Loavcf Claiborne races of .1 .
pdrosa .
234 [May, AtWeta petrosa.
Montgomery Race.
Locality.
— Montgomery, Louisiana.
Horizon.
— Jackson beds.
The Montgomery race is, from a geological standpoint, cotemporaneous with the Jackson race of Jackson, Mississippi.
In its early whorls it is perhaps a little less accelerated than the Jackson race.
The following table will serve to illustrate its relations with the Mississippi forms and with the probable Lower Claiborne ancestor.
1 2 o 4 5 G 7 8 9 10 11 12 Moseley Ferry (Jackson Strain).
Montgomery, La.
Jackson, Miss.
Table II.
— Showing slight acceleration of the curved rib stage and the beginning of the cancellated stage in the A. petrosa races of Jackson time.
The Lower Claiborne ]Moseley Ferry form is introduced as a probable ancestor.
Athleta clayi n. s." Locality.
— St. Maurice, Louisiana.
Horizon.
— Lower Claiborne.
The more important morphological features of this species may be summed up as follows : Whorl 1.
— Smooth and rounded.
Whorl 2.
— Smooth and rounded at first, but soon a very few untubercled but nearly straight ribs appear.
These probably represent a somewhat suppressed and condensed clu•^'ed rib stage.
They are followed by the straight tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
At first the suture tubercle is the larger, but a shoulder angle soon forms and the shoulder tubercle becomes dominant.
Whorls 3, 4.
— Characterized by the cancellated stage.
Much as in A B 1 1 C 1 D 1 A 1 1 B 1 1 C 1 D A 1 1 B 1 1 c D 1 1 '' This species has been named in honor of Mr. Randolph Clay, of Philadelphia.
loo: 235 the latter part of whorl 2, but the ribbing above the shoulder grows weaker.
Whorls 5, G. — Characterized by the cancellated stage, but toward the entl of 6 the ribbing above the shoulder is gone and the suture tubercles are weak.
The shoulder tubercle strengthens and the ribbing below it is well developed.
Whorls covered with fine spirals from the shoulder downward, but they are stronger below on the branchial siphon.
Whorl 7.
— Still characterized by the cancellated stage.
The suture tubercle and the spirals immediately below the shoulder both disappear.
The spirals are well developed, however, on the branchial siphon.
Fig.
1.
Fig.
2.
Fig.
1.
— Apex of Athleta dayi.
St. j\Iauricc, Louisiana.
In the second whorl the short and ahiiost suppressed curved ril) stage is seen passing into the tui^ercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
Length about 1.2 mm.
Fig.
2.
— Athleta dayi.
St. Maurice, Louisiana.
Mature individual exliibiting in its last whorl the features of the spiny stage.
In the mature sculpture it is practically indistinguishable from the adult specimens of A. petrosa.
Length = 27.5 mm.
Toward the end of the whorl the ribbing below the shoulder disappears and the shoulder tubercles become spine-like, so that the cancellated stage ends with the close of whorl 7.
Whorl 8.
— Characterized by the spiny stage.
Shoulder spines sharp.
Spirals on the branchial siphon only.
Shelly smoothing of the preceding whorl is slight.
Remarks.
— This form is distinguished from the St. iMaurice race of 236 [May, Athleta petrosa by its large and swollen apex; by its smooth stage which occupies little more than one whorl ; by its more or less suppressed curved rib stage, and by the earlier decline of the spirals immediately below the shoulder.
The following table will serve to compare Athleta cJayi with its associate, the St. Maurice race of Athleta petrosa, and also with a probable descendant, Athleta sayana, of Claiborne, Alabama.
A. petrosa.
St. Maurice, La.
A. clayi.
St. Maurice, La.
A. Kayana}Claiborne, Ala. A 1 1 C D 1 A B 1 1 C 1 D A c 1 D irtdl 1 1 Table III.
— Showing the greater amount of acceleration in .4. dayi and A. sayana.
The less accelerated A. petrosa is introduced for comparison.
In Table I the compared races of Athleta petrosa are all from one geological formation, the Lower Claiborne.
As stated before it is not possible, with our present knowledge of the stratigraphy, to arrange them in the order of their geological succession.
This is most unfortunate, for it can be seen at a glance that the races differ to a considerable extent in the acceleration of their shell features.
These races may and undoubtedly largely do represent certain episodes in the time range of the stock, but we cannot say which ones are mutations and which ones variations.
There appears to be no relation between geographical distribution and degree of acceleration, and even if there were it would mean nothing in view of our ignorance of the stratigraphy.
Any attempt at a phylogenetic arrangement of these assemblages, having as its basis the degree of acceleration, is very inadvisable.
Such an arrangement would be founded on the assumption that an accelerated form must always and invariably occujDy a higher horizon in the rock series than an unaccelerated form. "
During 6, 7 and 8 many secondary riblets appear, and these with the spirals produce a secondary cancellation which must not be confused with the primary.
1907.]
XATIHAL SCIIONCES OF IMU LADKLI'lllA.
237 In these ten Lower Claiborne races it is evident that the early stages vary more than do the later stages.
The end of the cancellated stage comes very constantly toward the close of whorl 8.
The end of this stage is not as distinct as its beginning, and it is true that the table exaggerates slightly the sharpness of this termination of the cancellated stage.
Though the change from the cancellated to the spiny stage is gradual it is usually accomplished within half a whorl, and this transformation takes place with great regularity during the latter part of whorl 8.
To sum \\p, the table may slightly exaggerate the sharpness of the change, but it in no way exaggerates the fact that the end of the cancellated stage occupies in this series of forms a much more definite place in the ontogeny than does its beginning.
Table II shows that in the Athlda petrosa races of Jackson time the beginning of the cancellated stage is on the whole earlier than in the forms of the Lower Claiborne, In some cases this acceleration is quite marked, as is seen when we compare, for example, the Jackson or Montgomery races with the ^It.
Lebanon race of Table I.
The Lower Claiborne St. Maurice race of Athleta petrosa.
seems to have attained about the same degree of acceleration as the later races of Table II.
The Lower Claiborne ^loseley Ferry race, which exhibits the tendencies of the later Jackson time races, has been introduced into Table II as a probable ancestral f(rm.
In Table III the Lower Claiborne race of Athleta petrosa from St. Maurice and ihe Athleta clayi, also of St. Maurice, are compared.
Athleta sayana from the later Claiborne beds is shown as a probable descendant of ^4.
clayi.
Taking all three tables into consideration, it is evident that the smooth stage is by far the most variable stage in Athleta petrosa and its derivatives, .4. clayi and A. sayana.
Still another remarkable fact is brought out by these tables when we examine the changes of the smooth stage in relation with the changes in the later stages; It is only in Athleta sayana.
a form where the smooth stage has been restricted to a little over one whorl, that we find any marked modification of the characters of the spiny stage.
Again, it is only in .4. sayana that we find the spiny stage beginning at such an early point in the ontogeny as the sixth whorl.
In Athleta clayi and .4. sayana the smooth first whorl is much larger than in any of the assemblages of .4. petrosa.
The apex of -4. sayana is larger than the apex of A. clayi, and in addition the later stages of A. sayana are markedly different from those of A. petrosa.
On the other hand, the later shell characters of .4. clayi are almost identical 238 [May, (except for acceleration) with those of some of the Texas Lower Claiborne races of A. petrosa.
In this particular respect A. clayi more closely resembles all the races of A. petrosa than it does A. sayana.
Athleta clayi is similar, then, to A. petrosa in its later stages, but similar to A. sayana in its smooth and curved rib stages.
^^ It may be reasonFi Fig.
3.
Fig.
4.
Fig.
.5.
3.
— Apex of Athleta petrosa Con.
St. Maurice, Louisiana.
Showing the small first whori and the relatively long smooth stage.
In whorl 3 the curved ribs are seen passing into the tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
Length about .75 mm.
Fig.
4.
— Apex of Athleta clayi.
St. Maurice, Louisiana.
Shows the large and smooth first whorl.
The tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage are displayed in whorl 2.
Length about .8 mm.
o.
— Apex of Athleta sayana Con.
Claiborne, Alabama.
Shows the large smooth whorl and the smooth stage which is restricted to a little over one whorl.
Li whorl 2 the almost suppressed curved ribs are seen passing into the tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
Length = 1.8 mm.
Fig.
ably regarded as an intermediate between the Athleta petrosa main stock and Athleta sayana.
\ One more ciuestion is worth considering before we leave the discussion of the morphology.
Wliat is the meaning of this restriction of the smooth stage to a little over one whorl ?
If the size of the apex remained the same it would be best explained as an example of acceleration.
The size of the first whorl, however, is not the same as in Athleta petrosa, but is larger in A. clayi and still larger in A. sayana.
May not this change then represent only an enlargement of the veliger, rather than a case of true acceleration?
The wTiter feels that with present data he is unable to solve this particular part of the problem.
Though '^ The author realizes perfectly that the proprietj^ of separating .4 .
claiji from .4. petrosa may be questioned by some workers.
Those who object to his arrangement will probably bring up the frequently cited case of Sturany's Fusus bijrons (Gastropoden des Rothen Meeres).
Judging from the figures it would seem, however, that Sturany is dealing with what would be regarded by most sj'stematists as two distinct species.
1907.]
XATLRAL SCIKN'CES OF PIIILADKLPHIA.
239 the cause of this chan<2;e may be unknown the chansje itself is unquestionable, and in the probable phylogen}of this particular series of forms it precedes the modification of the later shell stages.
Probable Phylogenetic Relations.
The Lower Claiborne races of Athleta petrosa show not a little racial variation especially in the smooth stage.
They are nevertheless typical examples of the main stock.
The later Claiborne race of Alabama probably ow^es its origin to some such assemblage as the first strain from the Lower Claiborne of Moseley Ferry.
The second strain from INIoseley Ferrj^ — that is the one which shows such marked Jackson tendencies — is a probable ancestor which, through acceleration and the multiplication of plaits, passed into the Montgomery and Jackson races of Jackson time.
Fig.
6.
Fig.
7.
Fig.
S. Fig.
6.
— Athleta peti-osa Con.
St. Maurice, Louisiana.
Immature indi\-idual exhibiting the sculpture of the cancellated stage.
Lengtli = 10 mm.
Fig.
7.
— Athleta clayi.
St. Maurice, Louisiana.
Immature individual exhibiting the sculpture of the cancellated stage.
Length = 12 mm.
Fig.
S. — Athleta sayana Con.
Claiborne, Alabama.
Mature indi\idual showing in the sculpture of its later whorls marked departures from the A. petroso main stock.
The secondary cancellation is shown in the last whorl.
Length = 48 mm.
Athleta clayi is almost identical with the examples of A. petrosa main stock in everything except its smooth stage.
In its smooth stage it approaches Athleta sayana of the later Claiborne beds of Alabama.
We are reasonably safe in concluding that A. sayana was derived from the A. petrosa main stock through the Lower Claiborne A. clayi.
In 240 [May, this case the first change was a modification of the apical characters {A. clayi), and the second change was modification in the featm'es of the spiny stage (.4. say ana).
The following table probably comes reasonably close to the phylogeny of these forms.
Tv.
Claihonio ('lail-)orno Jackson.
.4 .
petrosa main stock Jackson and L. Claiborne Races Montgomery Races It will be seen that in the above scheme the Claiborne race of Athleta petrosa is placed in a position which indicates a slight divergence from the main stock.
This change in its characters is attributed to the local nature of the Claiborne Sands environment.
** The Claiborne race of A. petrosa is the type of the species, and this is just one example of w^hat is frecjuently encountered in dealing with large series of races or individuals, namely, that the specific type may not be the most typical expression of the actual specific group.
^'^ The races of Athleta petrosa which are displayed in the Lower Claiborne deposits of Texas and Louisiana appear to constitute a veritable metropolis.
In this Lower Claiborne metropolitan assemblage was evolved Athleta clayi.
The Claiborne race of A. petrosa and A. soyana of the Alabama Claiborne Sands represent local conditions, and clearly " See A. C. Veatcli, Geol.
Surv.
La., 1902, p. 140.
'* Prof. Henry S. Williams has observed that "species are often described for the extreme form rather than the central stock."
He also lays stress on "the necessity of distinguisliing the real specific group from the species as understood in literature."
l'.)()7.]
XAITKAI, SriKXCES OF PHI LADKI.I'f 1 1 A .
241 show their oriuiii to ha\'e 1)C(mi among the more generalized forms of the Lower Chiih()rn(\ The Jackson and Montgomery races are unquestionably the descendants of the Jackson strain in the Lower Claiborne metropolis and are not derived from the Claiborne forms.
Summary.
In this study of Athlda petrosa and its allies from the western Gulf region we find the geological series of the races less complete than in the Eocene beds east of the Mississippi River.
The Texas Lignitic yields little material, but that little is quite similar to the senile forms of the later Lignitic of Alabama.
Texas, however, gives us no such increasingly abnormal series as we find in the Alabama Lignitic.
These abnormal forms are considered as derived (1) by migration aritl (2) by senile evolution from a theoretical metropolis situated farther seaward in a more typically marine environment than obtained in the waters of the Lignitic Cnilf.
With the end of the Lignitic this metropolis is believed to have encroached northward.
The Athleta petrosa races of the Texas and Louisiana Lower Claiborne represent this metropolitan assemblage.
Among these Lower Claiborne forms we find foreshadowed the Jackson, IMontgomery and Claiborne races of later time.
Li addition Athleta claiji has in this Lower Claiborne diverged from its parent stock, and illustrates one stage of that evolution which finally results in the Claiborne Athleta sayana.
The Claiborne forms of Alabama indicate an adjustment to rather local conditions, while the succeeding Jackson is a widespread limestone which bears a clear water facies of the old metropolitan assemblage.
In dealing with the e\-olution of shell features in fossil gastropods it is necessary to select a group which exhibits change, but at the same time is certainly of one genetic stock.
The forms considered in this paper fulfill both of these conditions.
No one can doul)t the common origin of the races and species in question, while the morphologic changes are evident.
It was shown in another paper that tlie Lignitic forms diverged from the main stock by an exaggeration and not by an acceleration of the marks of senility.
Their peculiar evolution was attributed to uncongenial conditions.
It was a violent reaction to an unfavorable environ'ment.
The morphologic modifications of the post-Lignitic forms are perhaps still more interesting as casting some light on the laws of gastropodjevolution.
Taking the normal species and races of Lower Claiborne, Claiborne and Jackson time, we find that on the whole there is much more variation in the smooth stage than an}'T\'here else in the shell.
Among the Lower Claiborne races of Athlcta petrosa the only changes worthy of notice are in the length of the smooth stage, while ^4.
clayi has departed from .-1.
petrosa only by a modification of its apical features.
The later shell characters of .4. clayi are almost identical with those of A. petrosa.
In the Claiborne Sands we have the Claiborne race of Athleta petrosa and A. sayana.
The writer suggests that in the first case (.4. petrosa) the local conditions produced a modification in the later stages of a form with a primitive apex — in other words a member of the A. petrosa main stock.
In the second case (.4. sayana) it is believed that these similar external conditions acted on a type such as .4. clayi, and that this form with its already' modified apex reacted more readily, so that the characters of its later shell stages departed to a considerable extent from those of .4. petrosa.
In the more widely extended conditions of Jackson age the apices are not greatly changed in form, but the smooth stage is simply shorter.
In other words the curved rib stage and the beginning of the cancellated stage are more accelerated.
From the data furnished by Athleta clayi and .4. sayana it appears that in the normal races of Athleta petrosa and its normal allies marked modifications of the later shell stages are preceded liy marked modification in the apex.
In addition we can say for this restricted normal group at least that the apex is not only a variable feature, but the most variable feature which the shells furnish."
1^ Tlie author is thoroughly convinced that the features of the apex must be used in classification wth great caution.
For this group at least Grabau's generalization does not hold.
He says: "The smaller the taxonomic group tlie more nearly identical must be the earlier stages, since in a small group the members have not become widelv separated from their common ancestor."
(.4;/;.
Nat., Vol.
36, p.
922.)
