ON THE SYNONYMIC HISTORY OF THE GENERA CLAVA MARTYN AND CERITHIUM BRUGUIiiRE.
15Y WILLIAM HEALEV DALL.
The syiioiiyinic history of these genera is quite complicated especially if one takes into consideration the minor subdivisions.
Most writers have hesitated to undertake revision of the Cerithiacea on account of the difficulties involved.
During recent years the suljject has been recalled to attention bj the elucidation of the true dates of the volumes of Martvn's Universal Conchologist and by the publication of Part VII of yi.
Cossmann's Essais de PaleoconcJwlogic Comparee which included a review of the Cerithiacea.
The conclusions in regard to the validity of certain generic names established by Martyn which resulted from my determination as to their correct date has been dissented from by M. Cossmann in his Essai and he sipports his arguments by statements of fact which if uncontroverted.
would establish his case.
The difference is.
in the main caused by a different viewpoint as to the reformation of nomenclature his argimients for which are supported b' inaccurate citations.
In 1830 systematists considered it entirely proper to ignore little known names to alter names which did not suit the Latinity or the taste of the person writing to neglect more or less completely the early history of names and to cite prelinnean and polynomial writers for systematic synonymy.
These ideas as we all know were but slowly modified since they aipealed to the common preference for what is familiar as well as to the indolence and carelessness of the hasty or amateur writer.
As all know who have had occasion to use his ver' useful summaries .M.
Cossmaim has not so far entirely freed himself from these prepossessions and has even on more than one occasion intimated that the acceptance of one or the other name of two in conflict should depend on the eminence of the author originating the name rather than on the priority of publication  while his indignation at the resurrection of obscure names seems both sincere and profound.
One cannot but feel some sympathy with the regret that familiar if erroneous names nuist be eliminated from general use.
 For some years I urged the maintenance of the first British Association rules which required a diagnosis to alidate a new genus or subgenus.
But these views not being acceptable to the majority of zoologists and the International Congresses having formulated a series of working rules in which this principle was not enforced and believing that a stable nomenclature can only result from the general impartial rigidly exact enforcement of the rules adopted I have proceeded in my work on that basis.
That it has resulted in necessary changes was the fault of the illogical and inaccurate methods of the early part of the nineteenth century wdiich M. Cossmann and those who sympathize with him seem to desire to perpetuate.
One cannot argue on such a question unless from a common standpoint which being wanting I have left unanswered munerous criticisms of my work by M. Cossmann recognizing his right to his own standpoint and the futility of argument under the circumstances.
But if one admits perfect freedom in selection of principles one does not necessarily waive the right to have the facts in the case accurately stated by the critics.
In this direction M. Cossmann's writings leave much to be desired.
Lest I should be supposed to acquiesce in them I have thought it best to select a concrete case that of M. Cossmann's treatment of the history of Martyn's genus Clava afterwards named ' Cerithiiim by Bruguiere which M. Cossmann has had occasion to notice in his account of the Cerithiacea in the publication alluded to.
In order to clear up the subject it is necessary to enter into the history of the genus Ccrithium.
This name was first applied by Fabio Colonna in his treatise De aquatilibus to a shell afterwards named Ccrithium adansonii by Bruguiere.
The name was adopted by Adanson for a group containing Cerites and Turritellas one of which Le Cerite p. 155 he identified with Colonna's shell.
These authors were prelinnean and except historically not entitled to be cited in synonymy.
In 1792 Bruguiere adopted the name and for the first time introduced it into binomial nomenclature naming no type but dividing the genus into three unnamed groups the first of which corresponds to Vertagus Klein the first species being C. obeliscus Bruguiere.
In 1799 Lamarck published his Prodrome ''' in which he cited as type Murex aluco Linne.
Two years later however in his Systhne he ' De aquatilibus aliisque nonullis animalibus Roma 1616 pp.
53 57  Senegal pp.
152160 1757.
 Enajcl.
Math. I pt.
2 1792 p. 467.
Not issued in 1789 as stated by Cossmann and various other authors.
 Prodr.
noiiv.
class. p. 73 1799.
 Syst.
des an.
s.
vert. p. 85 1801. mentions as example C. ncdvlosinn Bnigniere which was by the latter as by Ad anson supposed to be Colonna's original species.
Roissy adopted the genus in Bruguiere's sense his first species was a Veriagus Klein.
In 1S07 TJnk followed Lamprck's Prodrome and put under Ccrithiufn Lam.
his species resembling VirkKjus Klein beginning with C. duco which type was not then discriminated from the others and gave to Bruguiere's second group of true Cerites the name Aluco with Ccrithium adansonii Bruguiere as his first species.
Montfort in 1810 had also followed the lead of Lamarck in 1799 and figured Murex vcrtagus as the type of Cerithium s. s. after eliminating 2'lcscopium and Pyrazus   hercidca Martyn.
Schumacher''' in 1817 has three groujjs under Ccrithium corresponding to Ptras'us Montfort C. faluslre Lam.
 Cerithium Lamarck 1801 C .
nodidosum Brug.
and Ccrithium Lamarck 1799 C. aluco Linne.
He also adopts Klein's name Vcrtagus with two groups the first typified by Murex vertagus Linne and the second by Murex asper Linne which differs only by rougher sculpture.
In referring to species I have corrected the synonymy which is often complicated but refrain from inserting the details here.
To return to the parallel nomenclature in 1753 Klein who was one of the worst of the polynomialists proposed the name Vcrtagus his first species being Murex vertagus Linne.
This name of course had no standing.
Link in 1807 used Vertagus for a totally different group containing species of Tercbra and Schumacher's return to Klein's type was necessarily too late to remedy matters.
lartyn's name Clava was first publishednot later than 1784 as elsewhere proved beyond any doubt.
Ihe fom species published in that year may be identified as follows  1.
Clava rugota lartyn  M urcx asper Linne.
2.
Clava herculea Martyn  CfnYzmm eheninum Brug.
3.
Clava maculata MsiTtyn  Cerithium clava Brug.
4.
Clava ruhus MsLY.yn  Cerithium echinatum Lam.
 Hist.
nat.
Moll. VI.
p. lOG 1S05. '
J5e.scir.
Rostock Samml. p. 130 1807.
 Coich.
Syst. II p. .51 1 1810.
 Essni pp.
2234 and 2278 1817.
' Beschr.
Rostock Sa7riml. p. 128 1807.
 Essai p. 227 1817. 
Universal Concholoqist I table Xns.
12 13.
In the second series of forty plates sometimes called by Martyn Vol.
II tips.
57 and .
'iS represent respectively Clnra macidala and C. nibus Martyn.
The species in Vol.
Ill date only from 1786 and need not be considered in selecting a type though of interest as showing that Martyn 's conception of his genus Clava was practically the same as Bruguiere's conception of his genus Cerithium eight years later.
 These are referable to the following groups  3.
Cerithium Lamarck 1799 type C. aJuco L. Pseudovertagus Yignal 1904.
4.
CeriYimm Lamarck 1801 type C. nodulosum Brug.
Aluco Link.
1807.
2.
Pyrazus Montfort 1810 type C. ebcnimim Brug.
1.
Vertigus Klein Schumacher 1817 not of Link lS07C7am Martyn 1784  Rhinoclavis Swainson 1840.
It thus appears that whether we adopt the first species  rule or the method of elimination Martyn's first species becomes his type.
Pseudovcrtagus aluco is in my opinion generically distinct from Clava and much more nearly related to the true Cerites of Adanson and Lamarck 1801.
This conclusion is essentially the same as that reached by Pilsbry. The date of Gmelin's volume is of general interest to those working in systematic Malacology so that I have given the details but for our present purpose it is sufficient to say that Martyn's work the first 80' plates is cited throughout Gmelin's volume and some of his specific names are adopted by Gmelin. This conclusively shows that whatever the date of either work Martyn precedes Gmelin and Clava Gmelin non Martyn becomes a synonym.
M. Cossmann further suggests that a genus Clavus precedes and reduces Clava Martyn to synonymy.
But in this case he has obviously forgotten the fact patent in any Latin lexicon that Clava a club is a feminine substantive not identical with the masculine Clavus a naiL The two are as distinct as Pica and Picus.
In 1884 Jousseaume proposed to apply the name Clann to the group' represented by Martyn's Clava tcssellata a species which is No.
97 in his third volume.
This course is inadmissible because tessellata is not one of the original species of 1784 but at earliest dates from 1786.
The name Clava in Martyn's sense appeared subseciuently among the early writers only once.
In the anonymous Museum Calonnianum it is used practically as Martyn used it for the whole group of Cerithimnin the Lamarckian sense.
But as I have hitherto maintained that a work with no ostensible author or publisher is not entitled to be cited as valid in systematic synonymy I do not consider that this incident ' Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
for 1901 p. 392.
Such as Buccinum scutulatum Martyn Gmelin and Patella cahptra Martyn Gmelin.
See also pp.
3483 3490 3498 3690 3691 3697 3702 and 3712 and many others for citations by Gmelin of Martyn's figures. 
Bull.
Soc.
Zool.
de France IX p. 23 1884. adds any strength to the case for the ailoption of 'lava Maityn as a systematic name.
Gmelin's use of the word C'Utra in a generic sense for a Coelenterate animal though citetl by Cossmann as of 1789 is really not earlier flian 1791. and until very recently has been regarded as of 1792.'
On the twentysixth page of part l of imelin's work j.
o056 No.
19 there is a reference to a paper of Rraun pviljlished in the tenth vohmie of the Scliriftcn der GescUschajt Naturforschcndc Freunde zu Berlin page 58.
This pajx'r has been stated to have been issued in 1792 and if so the volume in which it is cited cannot be of earlier date.
' Lately M. 'ignal who has made a specialty of the Cerithiida proposed the name' Pseudovertagus for forms allied to C. aluco Linue which have an external appearance more or less like those of the type of Murcx nrtagus Jiune but want the strong spiral plication on the pillar.
After examining the specimens in the Museum 1 am of the opinion that this searation is absolutely justified.
The fossil forms in Europe according to M. Cossmann are of this latter type and so are most of the American species  but we have at least one species in the Chipola Oligocene which is unmistakably of the type of C. vertagus so far as the plicate axis is concerned.
There is also a recent species resembling C. kochii Philippi at Barbados.
The absence of the IndoPacifie type from the European Tertiaries may therefore be due to its absence from that region faunally and not to any ancestral character of the Pseudovertagus.
We are now in a position to review the facts above cited .
We may judge from the aggregate of the data that disregarding preiinnean polynomialists the fust binomial author to recognize the  Gmelin's Vol.
TI of his edition of the Sistema Nnturcc bears no date on the title.
  The paper referred to is M. Ikaun Beitr.
zur Gesch.
d. Enifeveidervurmer.
See Cams and Ensleniann Bild.
Zool. I p. 362 where the date of Hraun's paper is given as 1792.
.Vlso H. C. Bolton Cat.
Sci.
Periodicals second edition p. 1023 where the date of Vol.
X above referred to is given as 1792.
It is possible that Braun's paper was issued earlier in separate form lut u that case we should not expect that Gmelin would cite the page of the completed volume instead of the page of the separate issue.
Possibly some part of Y'.
may have appeared earlier than the date of tlie completed vohnne.
Ant.
 olhn discusses the question in the Zool.
Anzeiier for January lcS99 pp.
4 5 and comes to the conclusion that at least a portion of Gmelin's part 'I aipeared between August 21 1790 and Mav 11 1791 probably in one of the early months ol 191.
I have for some time followed Garus and Englemann and Bolton in using the date 1792 for this volume of Gmehn instead of 1790 as used by Sherborn in the Index Aninialiiim p. 221 .ince the latter does not give detailed data in his prehniinary bibliograpliv  but after GolHn's discussion called to my attention by Dr Stiles recently it seems reasonable to compromise on 1791 as the most probable date.
 Biill.
Mas.
Hist.
Xal.
Paris X. p. 3.S 1904. group commonly called Cerithium in nomenclature was MartTi.
who named it Clava.
haing two species in his first publication of which the first was a ' Vertagus and the second a Pyrazus.
The next author was Bruguiere.
who habilitated Cerithium Adanson without mentioning a tpe and with limits as M. Cossmann expresses it.
which ne repond a rien de bien precis.
Lamarck's first effort to select a type fell on a species of Pseudovertagus.
In this he was followed by Link 1807.
Montfort ISIO and Cuvier 1817.
Lamarck's second effort reverted to the antique t'pe represented by C nodulosum.
In this he was followed by Schumacher 1817.
who included the aliico group under Cerithium Lam.
proper and separated the Clava group with phcate axis under the untenable name of Vertagus.
Most modern authors have in a general way followed Schmnacher.
Bruguiere Lamarck and Deshayes were famihar with Martjn's work referred to it with high praise and cited his names in sTiommy the loose practice of changing specific names to suit the fancy of the author without reference to prioritj being still in vogue.
M. Cossmann's criticisms have been made ith such an air of confidence and so much particularity of detaU that the incautious reader might well suppose they were founded upon an accurate determination of the facts.
Yet in the present case it has been shown that of three dates essential to a right decision those of MartTi.
Bruguiere and Gmelin as printed by I.
Cossmann each and ever one is sTong.
Only because they are incorrect is he able to arrive at a decision different from mine first published in 1892 and elaborated by PUsbry in 1901.Since an analysis of my previous paper on Martn appeared in M. Cossmann's Revue de Paleozoologie.
shortly after its pubhcation it seems difficult to account for the presence of the false date 1789 for Martyn's first volume in the last number of the Essais.
and one would expect after Sherbom and Woodward's elucidation of the dates of the several parts that a French author of M. Cossmann's standing would have informed himself of the dates of pubhcation of the Encydopedie Methodique when they bore directly upon the subject he was discussing.
Whatever iew may be taken of MartTi's work nothing can prevent  T ertagus and Pseudovertagus beins at that time not differentiated.
Essais de PaUoconch.
Comp. Tirpp.
65.
84.
1907. 
Trans.
Wagner Inst.. III.
part II.
p. 290 1892.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila.
for 1901. p. 392.
 Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1S93 pp.
582.58i.
the recognition of Lamarck's type of 1799 as the type of the genus Ccriihium provided one accepts the international code of rules governing zoological nomenclature. The rejection of Clara Martyn would not alter this fact.
But in any case this system of nomenclature of the Cerithiidoe laboriously built up by M. Cossmann on an insufficient knowledge of the nomenclatorial histor of the family must submit to profound modifications before it can be approved by those who accept the international rules.
 Regies iniemationales de la nomenclature Zoologique adoptees par les Congres Internationales de zoologie.
Paris Rudeval 1905 8 p. 57.
ORTHOPTEEA OF THE FAMILIES TETTIGONID.E AND GRYLLID.E FROM SAPUCAY PARAGUAY.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
This paper completes the study of the Sapvicay collection of Orthoptera made by William T. Foster and now the property of Mr. Morgan Hebard .
Five of the families of the order were treated in a recent paper in these Proceedings to which the reader is referred for the titles of previous papers on Sapucay Orthoptera.
The asterisk is used here as in the previous paper to designate species not previously recorded from Sapucay.
In previous papers fortyone species of the two families here treated were recorded from Sapucay thirtysix are here recorded but of this number six are new species and twelve previously known species are recorded from the locality for the first time.
The author wishes to thank Mr. Hebard for the privilege of studying this valuable collection.
TETTIGONID.
PHANEROPTERIN.E.
ISOPHYA Brunner.
1878.
Isophya Brunner Monogr.
der Phaneropt. pp.
13 59.
Type.
 7. hrasiliensis Brunner.
Isophya borellii GigUoTos.
1894.
Isophya Borellii GiglioTos BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino IX No.
184 p. 37.
Province of San Pedro and Asuncion Paraguay Santa Rosa Salta Argentina.
March 1905 two males ten females.
These individuals are clearly referable to borellii the males having the cereal tooth distinctly before the apex the females having but the apical third of the dorsal margin of the ovipositor crenulate.
Isopliya hamata GiglioTos.
1894.
Ilsophya hamata GiglioTos Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino IX No.
184 p. 37.
Province of San Pedro Asuncion and Colonia Risso on the Rio Apa Paraguay.
August 1901  one male. '
Prec.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1907 pp.
151192.
100 371 The apical cereal tooth and the more transverse plicate vein readily xlistinguish the males of this species from those of horellii.
The range of this species is from Conimba Matto Grosso Brazil south to Sapiicay.
HYPEROPHORA IJiunncr.
1S7S.
Iliipcrophora Brunnor Monogr.
der Phancropt. pp.
10 125.
Type.
 .
hrasilicnsis Brunner.
Hyperophora brasiliensis Brunner.
1S7S.
IIiperopliora Brasilicmis Brunner Monogr.
dor Pliancropt. p. 126.
Brazil.
December 1904 March 1905 three males two females.
There is considerable variation in these individuals in the depth of the coloration of the tegmina in several specimens the green being very much richer and deeper than in the others.
The male eercus of this species is represented by fig.
1.
This species ranges from Brazil to Buenos Ayres Argentina.
Hyperophora cerviformis n. sp.
Type o  Sapucay Paraguay.
February 27 1905.
William Foster.
Hebard Collection.
Figs.
15.
 Male eercus of species of Hyperophora viewed from the dorsum.
1.
.
fercsiVensis Brunner.
2.
H .
cerviformis n. sp.
3.
.
woor lirunner.
4.
.
gracilis n. sp.
5.
H. minor Brunner.
X 8.
Allied to .
brasiliensis but differing in the slenderer form the more elongate teginina and the shorter cerci which are moderately recurved distad and with the proximal portion of the median process elongate andspined.
Size medium form distinctly elongate slender compressed.
Head short and deep ver' considerably broader than the pronotum occiput rounded vertex moderately declivent fastigium narrow compressed low margins elevated depressed mesad at the extreme apex not touching the frontal fastigium which is trigonal  eyes ovate prominent antennai rather thick fragile not perfect in the type proximal joint about as broad as the eye.
Pronotum with the disk subdeplanate slightly sellate lateral margins siibparallel acute the width of the disk contained about once and a half in the length cephalic margin moderately concave caudal margin moderately arcuate a distinct rectangulate impressed line mesad  lateral lobes distinctly longitudinal the greatest depth wdiich is caudad contained once and a half in the length cephalic margin slightly sinuate oblique ventral margin slightly emarginate over the coxse and very slightly angulate caudad of this caudal margin with a distinct rectangulate humeral sinus otherwise rounded.
Tegmina reaching about to the tips of the caudal femora narrow lanceolate the greatest width contained about six and a half times in the length costal field well rounded proximad otherwise the margins taper almost imperceptibly to the rounded apex  discoidal vein with three rami which are connected by diagonal suppleFig.
0.
 Hyperopnora cerriforinis n. sp.
Lateral view ol' male type.
X 22 mentary veins anterior ulnar vein fusing slightly distad of the apical third and with two principal rami  tympanum distinctly longer than broad.
Wings with apex acute exceeding the tegmina by a length equal to that of the head and pronotum together.
Terminal dorsal abdominal segment produced mesad into a subtrigonal process which is somewhat bullate cerci produced moderately tapering apex blunt somewhat depressed narrowly recurved dorsomesad median process strongly produced in a proximal direction parallel with the shaft acute no development distad subgenital plate with a rotundatoangulate emargination lateral apical angles rather blunt ventral surface with three subparallel carine.
Cephalic femora but slightly shorter than the head and pronotum together median femora twice as long as the pronotum.
Caudal femora once and onethird the length ot iliL' lly sliMider faulal til'up sliglitly longer than the femora.
General color apple green turning to oliveyellow and naples yellow on the head pronotiun and limbs.
Eyes irovits' brown a weak narrow postocular line and the more distinct continuation of the same on the angle of the pronotum liver brown the tympanum very broadly margined lateratl with the same tibiie oil green the caudal becoming olivegreen disad.
Measurements.
Length of body 17 mm.
Length of pronotum 4  Length of tegmcn 27.5 Length of caudal femur 22.7  The type is the onh' specimen seen by the author.
Hyperophora major Brunner.
ls7s.
ijcrnjira major Bninner Monogr.
der Phaneropt. p. 126 tnl.
II fig.
24.
Buenos Ayres Argentina.
March and .May 1902 two males two females.
These specimens are slightly smaller than the measurements given for this form by Brunner but as far as can be determined from his brief description they represent this species.
The measurements of a Sapucay male and female are as follows  c 9 Length of body exclusive of ovipositor .
.
20 mm.
22.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 4.6  4.6 Length of tegmen 29.5  30.5 ' Length of wing beyond tegmen 6.5  6.1 Length of caudal femiu 24  24.5 Length of ovipositor apex to ventral base .
5.5  The male cercus of this species is represented in fig.
3.
This species has been recorded from Buenos Ayres and Santa Rosa Salta Argentina and L'rucum latto Grosso Brazil.
Hyperophora gracilis n. sp.
Types  6 and 
 Sapucay Paraguay.
February 27  9  and March 7  1905.
William Foster.
Hebard Collection.
In a way this species connects certain previously known species of the genus but in the form of the ovipositor it appears to be close to H. angustipennis Brunner.
while the strongly lamcUatocarinate ninth dorsal abdominal segment of the male is apparently peculiar to the new species.
In possessing lateral lobes of the pronotum of equal depth 25 374 Aug. and in having the mediastine vein by no means as well marked as in the majorperuviana group it occupies a rather intermediate position.
Size medium form elongate slender somewhat compressed.
Head distinctly broader than the pronotum the occiput rounded vertex declivent fastigium narrow longitudinally sulcate apex llunt and in contact with the blunt apex of the facial fastigium eyes subovate strongly exserted antenna
elongate proximal joint as broad as the eye.
Pronotum with the dorsum deplanate slightly sellate lateral Hypcrophora gracilis n. sp.
Lateral view of male type.
X 2J.
margins subparallel angulate subcarinate the breadth of the disk contained about once and a half in the length cephalic margin very slightly emarginate caudal margin arcuate a distinct but low median carina present on the extreme caudal section of the disk cephalad of this there is an indication of the same but no carina rectangulate impressed pattern slightly caudad of the middle lateral lobes with the greatest depth contained nearly twice in the length caudal margin subsinuate with a faint trace of a supracoxal emargination humeral sinus distinct rectangulate the remainder of the caudal margin slightly arcuate and the ventrocaudal angle rather narrowly rounded.
Tegmina exceeding the length of the body ly alout that of the pronotum the greatest width contained about seven times in the length margins approximating little except in the apical fifth where the costal margin arches distinctly to the narrowly rounded apex discoidal vein with four rami all of which are distinctly sublongitudinal in their middle course diagonal in the remainder anterior ulnar vein with no distinct rami in the male one to two in the female the vein itself being connected by a short vein with the proximal rami of the discoidal vein.
Wings exceeding the tegmina by nearly twice the length of the pronotum the apex tapering and acute.
Terminal dorsal abdominal segment of the male with a short acute process over the base of each cercus and a larger median trigonal process bearing a hith rounded lamellate ridge cerci elongate see fig.
4 moderately robust in the proximal section slender in the distal section which is strongly curved mesad with the apex blunt and somewhat recurved median process on the distal side of its internal face with only a minute spine the proximal side with a slender recurved appendage with a slightly expanded emarginatotruncate apex subgenital plate moderately produced apex rectangulate emarginate.
Ovipositor of the female about half the length of the tegmina slightly but regularly curved rather broad taper.
sp.
Lateral view of oviing very slightly except toward the impositor.
x 3.
mediate apex dorsal margin slightly and ventral margin distinctly crenulate in the distal third subgenital plate of the femora very slightly produced with a narrow median emargination.
Cephalic femora as long as the pronotum and half of the head  median femora about a third the length of the tegmina.
Caudal femora very slender reaching to the apex of the tegmina.
General color apple green becoming greenish yellow on the proximal portion of the tegmina pronotum and head  postocular line and angles of the pronotum brick red the male tympanum marked laterad not very strongly with the same color eyes chestnut caudal tibiae becoming purplish brown distad.
Measurements.
6 9 Length of body 21 mm.
 mm.
Length of pronotum 3.7     Length of tegmen 23.8  25.5  Length of caudal femur 21  22  Length of ovipositor 11.5  Three paratypic males taken in February and March 1905 have also been examined.
These specimens fully agree with the type in all essential characters.
From these specimens it is seen that the male in some cases possesses at least a single ramus to the anterior ulnar vein of the tegmen.
v...  Hyperophora minor Brunner.
isdl.
Uijprrophora minor Brunner Verliuull.
K.K. Zool.bot.
Gesell.
.
Wien XLI p. 59.
Paraguay Cordoba Argentina.
February and March 1905  fourteen males thirteen females.
 Tlie head and cephalic jKjrtion of the pronotum is mi.ssing in the femaletype.
The cercus of the male of this species is represented by fig.
5.
There is an appreciable amount of variation in size in this species the extremes of the present series measuring as follows  Length of tegmen .
.
24 mm.
25.5 mm.
23.8 mm.
27 mm.
Length of caudal femur 2L2  23 '' 22  23.6  Length of ovipositor 7.2  7.8 LIGOCATINUS Rehn.
187S.
Amaura Brunner Monogr.
der Phaneropt. pp.
25 247.
Not of MoUer 1842.
1901.
Ligocatinus Rehn Canad.
Entom. XXXIII p. 272.
Type.
 Amaura spinata Brunner.
Ligocatinus olivaceus Brunner.
1891.
Amaura olivacea Brunner Verhandl.
K.K. Zool.bot.
Gesell.
Wien XLI p. 123.
Rio Grande do Sul Brazil.
February 1903 and 1905 three females.
Terminal spines are present on the external dorsal margin of the cephalic tibise in all tlu'ee specimens. HOMOTOICHA Brunner.
1891.
Homotoicha Brunner Verhandl.
K.K. Zool.bot.
Gesell.
Wien XLI pp.
17 124.
Type.
 H. minor Brunner.
Homotoicha fuscopunctata Caadel.
1906.
Homotoicha fuscopunctata Caudell Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mas. XXX p. 236.
Sapucay Paraguay.
March 1905 one male.
This specimen has been examined by Caudell who states there is no doubt in his mind but that it represents the male of his species.
As the appendages are undescribed a few notes ma be of interest.
Terminal dorsal abdominal segment with the apical Fig.
9.
 H onomargin broadly subtruncate.
Cerci with the proximal mmctcUa Cauthird very stout scabrous and bearing ' on the interdell.
Lateral nal margin a lamellate ridge developed into a falciform of  male abdo process.
Curving dorsad the base broad apex acute men.
 X 5.
and normally touching the base of the opposite cercus  median third of the cercus compressed  apex thickened obliquely truncate and with a small spine placed in the middle of the truncation beyond the proximal third the cerci are curved inward.
3 Vide Caudell Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXX p. 236.
Subgenital plate produced tapering bent considerably dorsadnear the base deeply antl narrowly divided short style.s present.
CERAIA Brunncr.
1891.
Ceraia Brunncr Verliandl.
K.K. Zool.hot.
Gesell.
Wicn XLI.
pp.
18 127.
Type.
 C. tibialis Brunncr.
Ceraia cornutoides Caudell.
lti. Ceraia cornuloidcs Caudfll I'roc.
U.
.S.
Nat Mu.s. XXX p. 237.
Sapucay Paraguay.
January 1903 rarch 1905 two females.
SCAPHURA Kirby.
1825.
ScapJtura Kirby Zool.
Journ. I p. i'V2.
Type.
 S. vigorsii Kirby.
Scaphura nigra Thunberg.
1824.
Tr  . niger Thunberg I'ni.
I'Acail.
Imp.
de.s Sciences St.
Petersb.
 IX p. 41.5.
Brazil.
January and March 1903 and 1905 one male three females.
These specimens do not fully agree with any of the numerous color forms of this species being closer to vigorsii Kirby and chalyhea Marschall than to the others.
From the former they differ in the absence of pale markings on the median femora and in the more brownish wings these latter being distinctly redbrown with a preapical portion infuscate.
From chalyhea they differ in the chaljbeous proximal portion of the antennae comprising eight to thirteen joints instead of only reaching the third.
However they are closer to chalyhea than to the type called vigorsii by Kirby.
I have provisionally considered all the nominal species as forms of nigra which is the oldest name the probability being that the various forms are geographic and restricted to definite areas.
The variation noted in the four specimens in hand is slight and from this one may infer that variation in one locality is generally no greater.
The resemblance of this species to a Sphegid wasp is very striking as has already been noticed by Westwood the similarity to species of the genus Pepsis being particularly true of the specimens examined.
GRAMMADERA Brunner.
1878.
Grammadera Brunner .MMigr.
der Plianeropt. pp.
27 297.
Type.
 G. clara Brunner.
Grammadera albida Brunner.
1S78.
Grammadera albida Brunner Monogr.
der Plianeropt. p. 298.
Brazil.
November and December 1904 two males one female.
378 Aug. As the ovipositor was mutilated in the female type I have described the appendages of the available female.
Ventral length of the ovipositor two and onehalf times that of the disk of the pronotum slightly falcate greatest width immediately distad of the middle and contained about four times in the length apex acute both margins crenulate for about a third their length.
Subgenital plate small apex broadly emarginate.
Graininadera rostrata n. sp.
Type 9  Sapucay Paraguay.
February 10 1905.
WilUam Foster.
Hebard Collection.
Allied to G. clara and alhida differing from the former in the more arcuate ovipositor the less quadrate lateral lobes of the pronotum Fig.
10.
 Grammadera rostrata n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
X 2J.
and the slenderer limbs.
From G. alhida it differs in the smaller eyes the more produced and subecjual fastigium the more distinctly distomedian insertion of the median vein and the less cuadrate lateral lobes of the pronotum.
From G. hastata Brunner and pcllucida and rosea GiglioTos it is separated by a number of characters the chief of which is the sulcate fastigium not sulcate in hastata and the emarginate subgenital plate entire or rotundate in pellucida and rosea.
Size medium form moderately elongate distinctly compressed.
Head with the occiput vertex and fastigium on much the same plane fastigium considerably produced the margins slightly converging the apex blunt and extending distinctly beyond the facial fastigium reaching to the margin of the proximal antennal joint when that portion is in a vertical position dorsum of the fastigiuni broadly but not very deeply sulcate facial fastigium acute distinctly separated from the fastigium of the vertex eyes subglobose prominent antennae about three times the length of the body exclusive of the ovipositor filiform proximal joint rather large.
Pronotum with the disk flattened only in the caudal section the cephalic and median sections being rounded into the lateral lobes with a scarcely perceptible median angle the greatest caudal width being continued about once and a half in the length cephalic margin of the disk and lateral lobes truncate caudal margin of the disk arcuate lateral lobes about as long as deep humeral sinus broad shallow the remainder of the caudal margin gently arcuate cephalic section of the ventral margin sinuate with the ventrocephalic angle obtuse.
Tegmina about once and a half the length of the body exclusive of the ovipositor extending beyond the caudal femora by about the length of the pronotum lanceolate the greatest width contained nearly four and a half times in the length costal margin very slightly arcuate sutural margin straight in the distal threefourths apex rounded median vein diverging twofifths the length from the base and furcate with the rami reaching the sutural margin.
Wings extending beyond the tegmina a distance nearly equal to the length of the pronotum.
Supraanal plate trigonal acute ovipositor about twofifths the length of the tegmina and slightly more than half that of the caudal femora moderately arcuate in the distal twothirds straight in the proximal third the ..  ' f f . '
tg. 11.
 Gramgreatest width at about the distal third dorsal madera rostrata margin not sinuate ventral margin slightly sinuate  P  
''j fe J   J  view of head in the proximal half apex acute distal half with the and pronotum.
dorsal margin very slightly crenulate ventral margin X 4.
distinctly crenulate subgenital plate short slightly inflated tlie margin with a broad shallow triangular'emargination.
Cephalic femora about equal to the pronotum in length armed on the distal section of the ventrocephalic margin with three spines median femora slightly longer than the head and pronotum together armed on the ventrocephalic margin wdth three spines.
Caudal femora equal to the body in length considerably inflated distad ventral margins armed with one or two spines near the apex tibiae exceeding the femora by near the length of the pronotum.
General color maize yellow washed with greenish on the head pronotum pleura and limbs  a distinct gamboge yellow line extends from 3S0 Aug. the apex of the fastigium to the caudal margin of the pronotuni and is also indicated on the distal portion of the sutural margin of the tegmina  pronotum regularly sprinkled with redbrown dots eyes vandyke brown antennae greenish proximad yellowish greenish and llackish distad.
Tegmina and wings pale chromiiun green.
Ovipositor with the distal twofifths paris green the apex and margins narrowly redbrown.
Caudal femora ochraceous on the inflated portion lined dorsad on the same and with distal section buffy the whole speckled with redbrown as on the pronotum caudal tibiae greenish much stronger distad.
Measurements.
Length of body exclusive of ovipositor 19 mm.
Length of pronotum 5  Length of tegmen 29.5  Length of caudal femur 18.3  Length of ovipositor 11.5  The type is unique.
Grammadera forcipata n. sp.
Type c
 Sapucay Paraguay.
February 27 1905.
William Foster.
Hebard Collection.
Fig.
12.
 Grammadera forcipata n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
X 3.
AlHed to G. pellucida GiglioTos agreeing in the sulcate pronotum and the long slender incurved cerci but differing in the aljsence of mucronations on the apex of the cerci in the longer strongly divided subgenital plate and the subequally broad as high lateral lobes of the pronotum.
There is hardly any possibility of this species being the male of G. rostratd as the venation is much more irregular the fastigium is longer and the limbs shorter and weaker.
Size medium form considerably compressed.
Head with the fastifiium much narrower than the proximal joint of the anteniuc.
subecjual.
apex blunt mcxlerately sulcate dorsad the apex when viewed laterad distinctly exceeding the margin of the proximal antennal joint when the latter is in a vertical position facial fastigium produced into a slender projecting process directed dorsocephalad and touching the ventral surface of the apex of the fastigium of the vertex eyes subglobose moderately prominent antennae slender broken in the type.
Pronotum with the disk as in G. roslrata except that the median section bears a distinct longitudinal sulcus more apparent caudacl than cephalad while a rectangulate imiressed pattern is placed slightly caudad of the middle  lateral lobes as in rostrata.
Tegmina about three and a half times as long as the combined length of the head and pronotum moderately lanceolate the greatest width contained nearly four times in the length costal margin regularly but slightly arcuate sutural margin straight except where it curves to the narrowly rounded apex median vein diverging very slightly clistad of the middle and reaching the sutural margin well before the apex discoidal vein bearing three rami in the distal section  the whole venation is peculiar in character the principal veins irregular ..  Zmmmaand connected by numerous adventitious veins.
dcra forcipaia n Wings extending beyond the tegmina a distance Jl'  '  about equal to the length of the cephalic femora aljdomen.
x 7.
apex moderately acute.
Terminal abdominal segment truncate supraanal plate hastate slightlj constricted mesad cerci simple tapering apex acute the distal section moderately incurved and also with a distinct dorsal curve subgenital plate strongly produced reaching about to the end of the cerci hoaring three converging ventral carinte narrowly incised distad with the lateral portions of the apex of the plate moderately long sharp and tapering.
Cephalic femora slightly shorter than the pronotum unarmed ventrad median femora slightly less than half the length of the caudal femora unarmed ventrad.
Caudal femora very slightly shorter than the body not strongly inflated proximad armed with several small spines on the ventrolateral margin caudal tibiae exceeding the femora by nearly the length of the head.
General color pale chromium green touched with yellowish on the abdomen and proximal portion of the tegmina and somewhat hoary on the pleura coxae and lateral lobes of the pronotum.
Eyes hazel tympanum of the tegmina with the principal veins strongly marked with bistre.
 Measuretnents.
Length of body 17 mm.
Length of pronotum 4.9  Length of tegmen 27  Length of caudal femur 14.5  The type is the only specimen of this species seen by the author.
PHYLLOPTERA Serville.
1831.
PhyUoptera Serille Ann.
Sci.
Nat. XXII p. 142.
Type.
 As designated by Kirby P. cassinoefolia.
PhyUoptera alliedea Caudell.
1906.
PhyUoptera alliedea Caudell Proc.
U. S.
Nat.Mus. XXX p. 238.
Sapucay.
Paraguay.
February 1902 and 1905 May 1902 two males one female.
PhyUoptera spinulosa Brunner.
j'.
J 1878.
PhyUoptcra spinulosa Brunner Monogr.
der Phaneropt. p. 314.
Ypamena Sao Paulo Brazil.
February 1905 one male one female.
The female individual has the tegmina with an ocellus as mentioned by Caudell.
In neither specimen are the cephalic tibiae sulcate dorsad.
The ovipositor of this species is very short and robust the apex rectangulate the distal half of the margins crenulate and the faces of the same portion tessellatogranulate.
The ventral length of the ovipositor is six millimeters.
Subgenital plate small very strongly produced divided to the base.
HYPERPHRONA Brunner.
1878.
Hyperphrona Brunner Monogr.
der Phaneropt. pp.
28 315.
Type.
 H. angusta Brunner.
Hyperphrona signata n. sp.
Types j and 
 Sapucay Paraguay.
December 19 1904 d February 24 1905  9 .
WiUiam Foster.
Hebard Collection.
Allied to H. binotata Brunner from the upper Amazon agreeing with it in the coloration of the proximal joints of the antennae the proportions of the tegmina and the point of contact of the median vein but differing in the absence of black from the remainder of the antennae the spiniform apex of the male cerci the shorter ovipositor and the peculiar 190 383 occUifonn inarkiiig ut the margin of the tympanal field of the male tegmina.
. Size rather small form somewhat compressed.
Head with the occiput very slightly rounded vertex slightly declivent fastigium trigonal the margins slightly concave and the apex roundly tuberculate the proximal portion having the margins roundly elevated and the middle sulcate when viewed laterad the fastigium is seen to be strongly depressed mesad with the apex somewhat elevated and not extending Hyper phrona siijnuta n. sp.
Lateral view of male type.
X 3.
cephalad of the proximal joint of the antenna facial fastigium acute eyes subglobose antennae half again as long as the greatest length slender.
Pro.notum with the disk subdeplanate laterad with the angles rounded and the greatest caudal width contained once and a half in the length cephalic margin slightly cmarginate caudal margin strongly arcuate lateral lobes slightly longer than deep cephalic margin slightly sinuate ventral margin rounded obtuseangulate caudal margin moderately arcuate with the humeral sinus moderately deep and broad.
Tegmina slightly more than three times as long as the head and pronotum together ovatelanceolate the greatest width contained about three and a third times in the length costal and sutural margins regularly but not strongly arcuate apex rounded  median vein diverging slightly proximad of the middle simple or furcate reaching the sutural margin shortly proximad of the apex anterior ulnar vein almost straight tympanum of the male with the stridulating vein very stout.
Wings extending beyond the tegmina a very short distance narrowly rounded  In the types furcate only on the left teginen of the female.
' .
 3S4 Aug. at the apex.
Terminal dorsal abdominal segment of the male with a very slight and broad median emargination  supraanal plate reflexed roughly semicircular cerci stout at the base short tapering the tips moderately hooked acute subgenital plate moderately produced the apical portion much narrower than the base apical margin truncate false styles short and dentiform.
Ovipositor about as long as the pronotum and half of the head bent arcuate broad apex moderately acute distal half of the dorsal margin distinctly crenulate of the ventral margin obsoletely crenulate subgenital plate small rectangulate with the apex minutely rectangulate emarginate.
Cephalic femora but little shorter than the head and pronotum together unarmed dorsocaudal margin of the tibiae with four to five spines one of which is placed at the distal extremity of the proximal inflation.
Median femora equal to about half the length of the caudal femora armed on the ventrocephalic margin with two to three small recumbent spines.
Caudal femora slightly shorter than the length of the body moderately inflated distad and with spines none or one on the ventrocephalic margin caudal tibiae distinctly exceeding the femora.
General color buffyellow becoming apple green on the tegmina exposed portion of the wings and limbs.
Eyes chestnut  antennae very broadly and irregularly annulate with dragon's blood red.
Pronotum with the disk regularly and the lateral lobes sparingly dotted Fig.
15.
 Hyper phrona signata n. sp.
Dorsal view of head  pronotum and tympanum of . male type.
X 5.
Fig.
16.
 Hyperphrona signata n. sp.
Dorsal iew of apex of male abdoFig.
17.
 Hyperphrona signata n. sp.
 men.
x 6.
Lateral view of opositor.
X 5.
with dragon's blood red the margins being rather regularly checked with the same.
Tegmina sometimes with an ochraceous premedian desiccated spot On the left tegmen of the female type.
maruined on all but the caudal face with brown tympanum of the male with an irregular median blotch of very pale greenish surrounded by a vvvy irregular ring of liver brown  sutural margin narrowed touched mesad with liver Ijrown.
Measurements.
Length of body exclusive of ovipositor .
.
17.3 mm.
18.3 mm.
Length of proiiotum 4.3  4.3  Length of tegnien 23.2  21  Length of caudal femur 17  16  Length of ovipositor 5.5  A series of four male and six female paratypic individuals have also been examined.
The months represented in the series are December 1904. and January February and IMarch 1905.
In size there is an appreciable amount of variation in addition to which there also appears to be two forms irrespective of sex one wdth the tegmina short as in the female type the other with the tegmina longer and correspondingly slenderer as in the male type.
The series also shows that the forking of the median vein is piuely a variation not even individual one tegmen in a number of specimeiLS having the unbranched type the other the reverse.
The female type is the only specimen with the premedian tegminal spot while the tympanal spot of the male with its surrounding ring is also seen to vary greatly in depth though always present in that sex.
In a number of specimens the tegmina are distinctly yellow proximad and in one male the whole tegmina are of that color.
TURPILIA stai.
Turpilia paraguayensis n. sp.
Types d and 
 March 12  9  and 21 cJ 1905.
William Foster.
Hebard Collection.
Closely allied to T. mexicana Brunner from Oaxaca and T. linearis Rehn from Costa Rica.
From mexicana it differs in the general smaller size the spined dorsal margin of the median femora and the acute subgenital plate of the femora.
From linearis it differs in the lateral lobes of the pronotum being as long as deep the tegmina slightly shorter and the cerci with a distinct apical spine.
Size moderately large form elongate.
Head with the occiput slightly rounded fastigium strongly compressed narrowly sulcate apex blunt separated from the blunt apex of the acute angulate facial fastigium by a very shght space eyes large subglobose moderately 381 Aug. prominent  antennae probably exceeding the tips of the mngs shghtly defective in the types fiUform.
Pronotum with the disk strongly deplanate slightly expanding in width caudad the greatest caudal width contained slightly less than once and a half in the length  cephalic margin truncate caudal margin arcuate lateral angles distinct but narrowly rounded a fine impressed longitudinal median line present on the disk lateral lobes about as long as deep ventrocephalic angle very broadly rounded humeral sulcus marked but shallowly the caudal margin ventrad of this with a rounded obtuse angle from which the ventrocaudal margin is diagonally subtruncate.
Tegmina elongate lanceolate about four times as long as the combined length of the head and pronotum the greatest width contained nearly five times in the length  costal and sutural margins slightly approximating the Fig.
18.
 Turpllia paraguayensis n. sp.
Lateral view of male type.
X 2.
apex rounded  discoidal vein with two rami in the distal section both of which reach the apical margin  median vein diverging twofifths the distance from the base furcate.
Wings extending beyond the tegmina a distance very nearly equal to the length of the pronotum immediate apex rectangulate.
Terminal dorsal abdominal segment of the male broadly and shallowly emarginate mesad and also on the lateral faces cerci short stout at the base tapering with the immediate apex sharply narrowed hooked and spiniform internal margin slightly before the middle provided with a thick llunt peglike process subgenital plate of the male produced narrowed with a median ventral carina and lateral thickened rods which extend to the base of the short slender styles narrow distad margin of the plate with a rounded Vshaped emargination.
Ovipasitor as long as the head and half of 1907.1 387 the pronotum coiisidorably lont proxiinad very sliihtly curved distad the greatest widtli iiiesad and contained two and onehalf times in the length dorsal margin nearly straight and entirely crenulate ventral margin considerally arcuate and crenulate in the distal fourth apex slightly narrowed rounded subgenital plate of the female produced trigonal with slightly concave sides apex narrowly truncate.
Cephalic femora about equal to the pronotum in length unarmed ventrad  the proximal inflation of the tibia supplied with a distal spine on the caudal margin.
Median femora as long as the head and pronotum together unarmed ventrad.
Caudal femora about equal to the body in length moderately inflated proximad ventrolateral margin with three to five spines distad internal margin with six to seven spines caudal tibiae slightly longer than the femora.
Fig.
19.
 TurpUin ixintgumjcnsis n. sp.
Dorsal view of upcx of male atirlomen.
X 6.
Fig.
20.
 Turpilia paragnaijensis n. sp.
Lateral view of ovipositor.
X 5.
General color dull greenishyellow the tegmina and wings apple green.
Head with the eyes chestnut antennae with all except the two proximal joints vinaceouscinnamon  pronotum with the caudal section of the disk apple green the lateral angles sometimes marked with vinaceous tegmina with the anal vein and sutural margin more or less distinctly marked with buffpink tibial foramina marked with dark brown distal extremities of the tibise and the tarsi ochraceous buff ovipositor orangerufous.
Measurements.
Length of body 20 mm.
22.7 mm.
Length of pronotum 5  5.5  Length of tegmen 31  31.2  Length of caudal femur 20.8  21.8  Length of ovipositor 6.5  A paratypic series of five males and five females taken in .March 1903 have also been examined and found to differ in no important characters from the type.
MICROCENTRUM Scudder.
Microcentrum lanceolatum Burmeister.
1S3S.
PhyIlopiera lanceolata Burmeister Handb.
der Eiitom. II Abth.
II pt.
I p. 692.
Brazil.
March 1905 one female.
This individual is rather smaller than the Brazilian or Surinam material measured by Brunner' but otherwise it is perfectly typical of the species.
Measurements.
Length of pronotum 6.5 mm.
Length of tegmen 42  Greatest width of tegmen 13.5  Length of caudal femur .
22.2  Length of ovipositor 6  This species has been recorded from ''illa Rica Paraguay and Urucum latto Grosso Brazil by GiglioTos.
PSEUDOPHYLLIN.E.
DASYSCELTIS Brunner.
1895.
.Dasyscelus Brunner Monogr.
der P.seudopliyll. pp.
15 118.
Type.
 D. atrifrons Brunner.
Dasyscelus normalis Brunner.
1895.
Dasyscelus 7iormaUs Brunner Monogr.
der Pseudopln'll. p. 119.
Uruguay Buenos Ayres.
November December and January 1903 and 1905 April 1903 six males twelve females.
This species appears to have as a synonym D. demigratus Brunner over which normalis has line priority.
The differences cited are in the color of the face and in the length of the tegmina and limbs.
The former of these characters is at once discredited by the fact that two types one with a black face and the other with a pale face are present in this series the two extremes being connected by a number of intermediates.
The length of the limbs varies with the general size and the present series shows more difference in size in the extremes than the typical measmements of normalis and demigratus although the Sapucay individuals average larger than Brunner's material which came in part at least from Buenos Ayres.
The original localities given for demigratus are Gabun Buenos Ayres but the former is unquestionably erroneous.
Monogr.
der Phaneropt. p. 330.
COXOCEPHAI.IX.i.
LAMNICEPS Bolivar.
1903.
LamnicepsBoMvar Revista Chilena de Hist.
Nat. l.
mini.
3 p. 144 Tyie.
 L. gigliotosi Bolivar.
Lamnicep8 gigliotosi Bolivar.
1903.
Lamniceps GiglioTosi Bolivar Revista hilma do Hi.st.
Xat. VII num.
3 p. 115.
Central Paraguay.
November and December 1904 February 1905 four females.
These individuals are perfectly typical of Bolivar's genus and species which is clearly as stated by him intermediate in position between Copiphora and Lirometopum.
One specimen is slightly smaller than the others but otherwise no differences are noted.
The description of Copiophora borellii GiglioTos appears to be that of a form closely related to this species.
CONOCEPHALOIDES Perkins.
1S99.
Conocephnloides Perkins Fauna Ilawaiiensis Orth. p. 13.
Type.
 C. hawaiiensis Perkins  Conocephalus remotus Walker.
Coiiooeplialoides ichneumoneus Bolivar.
1884.
Conocephalus ichneumoneus liolivar Art6pod.
Viaje al Pacffico Neuropt.
y Ort6pt. p. 90 Idin.
2 fig.
10.
Apiahy Brazil.
December 1904 two females.
This specimen fully agrees with Bolivar's description except that the pronotum and tegmina are very slightly longer and the ovipositor slightly shorter.
The type locality in the State of Sao Paulo and this record constitute the known localities for the species.
Conocephaloides pioliinclise Bolivar.
1881.
Conocephalus Pichinchce Bolivar.
Anales Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Xat. X p. 498.
Pichinolia Kcuador.
November 1904  one male.
This individual is referred here with considerable doubt but it is clearly related to this species and guttatus with a number of which ' Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Camp.
Torino IX No.
184 p. 40.
Luque Paraguay.
 The author is compelled with considerable reluctance to adopt this name based on an aberrant form of the genus in preference to the familiar application of Conocephalus Thunberg.
After examining tlie literature involved it is evident as has been shown by Kirby Synonym.
Catal.
Orlhopt. II pp.
241 274 and 279 that Thunberg's hemipterus is identical with Gryllus conocephalus Linnaeus which by the rule of tautonomy is the type of Conocephalus Thunberg.
The latter genus  Jiowever is not cancelled by the fact that it is based on a speeifie name as Kirby so treats it but instead it replaces Anisoplera Latreille and Xiphidion Serville.
26 latter species it has been compared.
From the original description of pichinchoE it differs in its apparently broader tegmina its unarmed cephalic femora and slightly longer caudal femora.
The tibiae bear the very apparent distal blackishfuscous markings originally described.
Conocephaloides pustulatus Redtenbacher.
1S91.
Conocephalus pustulatus Redtenbacher Verliandl.
K.K. Zool.botaii Gesell.
Wien XLI p. 395.
Theresopolis Brazil.
November and December 1904 January 1905 seven males five females.
This series shows a moderate amount of variation in size chiefly in the length of the tegmina.
Both color phases are in the series at hand the green however predominating.
Kir by has recently applied the name exaltatus Walker to this species but Walker's description does not agree in several details with the material before us and Redtenbacher's diagnosis perfectly characterizes the species.
In consequence we prefer to use Redtenbacher's name for the Paraguayan and south Brazilian form until its relationship to Walker's species is more clearly understood.
Conocephaloides maxillosus Fabricius.
1794.
Locusta maxiUosa Fabricius Entom.
Syst. II p. 37.
America.
March 1905 one female.
The range of this species to the south now appears to be limited by southern Brazil Rio Janeiro Theresopolis Paraguay and Bolivia.
Conocephaloides maculosus Redtenbacher.
1891.
Conocephalus maculosus Redtenbacher Verhandl.
K.K. Zool.bot Gesell.
AYien XLI p. 396.
Lages Santa Catharina Brazil.
December 1904 one male.
This individual differs somewhat in its measurements from the original female type but such differences may be sexual and as far as can otherwise be determined from the original description it represents this species.
The measurements may be of interest  Length of body 27.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 8.1  Length of tegmen 37.5  Length of caudal femur 21.5  Conocephaloides saturatus Griffini.
1891.
Conocephalus infuscatus Redtenbacher not of Scudder 1875 Verhandl.
K.K. Zool.bot.
Gesell.
Wien XLI p. 398.
Medellin 8t.
Vincent Lesser Antilles Cuba Venezuela Sunnam Cayenne Brazil Rio Grande and Theresopolis Brazil Peru.
1899.
Conocephalus saturaius Griffini Miscell.
Entom. 'II p. 5.
 Synon.
Catal.
Orth. II p. 243.
' Catal.
Derm.
Salt.
Brit.
Mas. II p. 31 1.
Venezuela.
March.
100 threo foniales.
In these .
Specimens the length of the tegniina varies from S'S to 3S millimeters the caudal femora from 24 to 25.5 and the ovipositor from 34 to 34.5.
The ovipositor is appreciably longer than the measurements given by Redtenbacher 2028 mm.
 but otherwise the secimens are perfectly typical.
Conocephaloides brachypterus Redtenbacher.
1891.
Conoccphalus brachypterus Redtonbacher Verliaiull.
1.K. Zoul.bot.
Gesell.
Wien XLI p. 400.
Brazil.
February 1903 one female.
This individual has several spines on each of the cephalic and median femora but otherwise it fulh' agrees with the original description.
Conocephaloides rugosicoUis Bolivar.
ISSl.
Conoccphalus rugosicoUis BoUvar Auales Soc.
Espafi.
Hist.
Nat. X p. 496.
Huasco Chile November and December 1904 January February and IMarch 1905 seven males six females.
As far as can be determined from the several published descriptions of this species the Paraguayan series before us is referable to rugosicoUis.
In the degree of contiguity of the vertex and frontal fastigium there is however considerable variation ranging from individuals with the two distinctly touching to others in which they are slightly but appreciably separated.
In no other character however can the material be separated and the majority of the series is rather intermediate between the two.
The figiu'e of the tegmen given by Redtenbacher is not exactly as seen in the Paraguayan specimens as the obliquely truncate apex of the tegmen is not sinuate in the latter series.
As the female of this species has never been described a few notes may be of interest.
Ovipositor less than half the length of the tegmina slightly bent proximad straight otherwise thick distad the greatest width at about a fourth the length from the apex latter acute subgenital plate with a deep median sinuate 'shaped emargination.
Measurements.
Length of body exclusive of ovipositor 31 mm.
Length of pronotum 7.9 '' Length of tegmen 41  Length rf caudal femur 24.2  Length of ovipositor IS.
3   Verhundl.
K.K. Zool.bol.
Ucscll.
U'icn XLI Uu.
Ill lig.
44 AGR.ffiCIA ServiUe.
1831.
Agroecia ServiUe Ann.
Sci.
Nat. XXII p. 152.
Type.
 Locusta 'punctata ServiUe.
Agraeoia maculata Redtenbacher.
1891.
Agrcecia maculata Redtenbacher Verhandl.
K.K. Zool.bot.
Gesell.
Wien XLI p. 455 taf.
IV fig.
63.
Theresopolis Brazil.
November and December 1904 nine males eleven females.
These individuals are perfectly typical of the species except for their smaller size.
Considerable variation in size is noticed in the female sex but no specimen is as large as the measurements given by Redtenbacher.
The cerci of the male are short stout and with the apex abruptly tapering subgenital plate with the apex broad truncate and with considerable sized lateral false styles.
The measurements of an average male and the extremes of the female sex are here given  Length of body.
.
Length of pronotum Length of tegmen .
Length of caudal femur Length of ovipositor .
XIPHELIMUM Caudell.
1906.
Xiphelimum Caudell Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXX p. 241.
Type.
X. amplipennis Caudell.
Xiphelimum amplipennis Caudell.
1906.
Xiphelimum amplipennis Caudell Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXX p. 241.
Sapucay Paraguay.
March 1905 seven males.
These specimens fully agree with the original description of this beautiful species.
CONOCEPHALUS Thunberg.i 1815.
Conocephalus Thunberg M6m.
I'Acad.
Imp.
Sci.
St.
Petrsb. V pp.
214271.
Type by tautonomy C. hemipterus Thunberg  Locusta conocephalus Linnseus.
1831.
Xiphidion Serville Ann.
Sci.
Nat. XXII p. 159.
Conocephalus longipes Redtenbacher.
1891.
Xiphidium longipes Redtenbacher Verhandl.
K.K. Zool.bot.
Gesell.
Wien XLI p. 505 taf.
IV fig.
81.
Buenos Ayres Argentina Montevideo Uruguay Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catharina Brazil Peru.
'' See note on page  under Conocephaloides.
c
9 9 .
.
.
26 mm.
28.5 mm.
33.5 mm .
.
.
7  7 7.6 '' .
.
.
31  30.5  36.5  .
.
.
16.5  17.2  18.5  14.5  15.7 '' 1907.
VATIHAL StIKMKs OF IMI I I.ADKLl'HIA.
393 Marcli 1905 uiic male.
This specimen has been comparcil with a pair from C'arcarana Argentina.
Conooephalus saltator Saussure.
1859.
Xiphiliuti sollalor Saiissuro Reviio ct Magasin de Zonlojiii' 'ie s'r XIp.
20S.
Guiana.
March.
1905 one male four females.
The ovipositor is practically straight in all the females and alout thirteen millimeters in length.
The species ranges from Cuba to Montevideo Uruguay.
Conooephalus strictoides Caydell.
1900.
Xihilliii strictoklcs Caudoll.
Tnic.
I'.
S. Xat.
Mus. XXX p. 212.
Sapucay.
Paraguay.
April 1902 one female.
This specimen has the tegmina.
caudal femora and ovipositor somewhat smaller than in the type measurements but in all other characters the individual agrees perfectly with the original description except that the dorsmn of the abdomen is marked in urplish brown with a pattern resembling that of C. striduni.
WW  A. WWW.
v.. CAMPTONOTUS Ihler.
1864.
CaiiiptonoliiK I'liler Proc.
Entnin.
Soc.
Pliila.. 11. p. .5I.
Type.
 C. scuddcri Uhler  GnjUacris caroline7isis Gerstaecker.
Camptonotus australis n. .p. Types c and 
 Sapucay.
Paraguay.
November 10 o and December 19  
 1905.
William Foster.
Hebard Collection.
Allied to C. corolinensis Gerstaecker and affimsHehn.
but differing from both in the very robust caudal femora and the heavy more regularly arcuate and less attenuate ovipositor.
Size medium form as usual in the genus surface glabous.
Head with the occiput well arched longitudinally and transversely vertex very broad and evenly rounding into the front  face somewhat flattened  eyes elongate reniform  antenntc about four times as long as the body.
Pronotum with the dorsal length slightly shorter than the greatest width the tlorsal outline when viewed laterad slightly conex cephalic margin of the disk truncate caudal margin very broadly and shallowly triangular emarginate lateral lobes broadly rounding into the disk longer than deep ventral margin truncate ventrocophalic angle obliquely rounded ventrocaudal angle obliquely subtruncate.
Mesonotum anil metanotum with their caudal margins very slightly 394 Aug. arcuate.
Abdomen somewhat comjiressed  terminal dor.sal alxlominal segment of the male moderately inflated the apical margin rotundate emarginate a median longitudinal carina present on the distal half Cumptonotus m.tniJis n. sp.
Lateral view of male type.
X 4.
male cerci simple terete acute the length about equal to that of the terminal abdominal segment subgenital plate of the male short apical margin obtuseangulate emarginate ovipositor nearly equal to half the length of the body regularly arcuate moderately stout proximad and regularly tapering to the acute apex subgenital plate of the female broad trigonal apex narrowly and shallowh emarginate.
Cephalic and median limbs moderately rolust.
Caudal femora nearly two and a half times the length of the pronotum strongly inflated the greatest width contained nearly two and a half times in the length ventrolateral margin with three tt four spines internal margin armed distad with two spines  tibiie ntt exceeding the femora in length.
General color ochraceous becoming bufty on the limbs particularly the caulal tibia whicli also have a faint wash of green distad.
Eyes bistre.
Fig.
22.
 CoDiptflnotus tiustnili n. sp.
Lateral view ol oi posit or.
X o.
Measurcniaitfi.
d Length of ldy l.''.5mm.
Length of jwonotum o.2  Length of caudal femur 7.o ' Tjength of ovipositor 9 IG mm.
3.3  S.9  A paratypic series of four males and three females taken November 1U04 liave also been examined.
Aside from a considerable amount of variation in size no differences worthy of note are apparent.
GRYLLID.
luvi.i.oTAi.rix i.
SCAPTERISCUS Scu.l.ler.
Soapteriscus camerani liiglii'Tn..
1894.
Saitcrisciis Cdinerinti GiglioTos BolkU.
Mus.
Zool.
Aiiat.
Coiup.
Torino IX No.
184 p. 45 plate figs.
13 and IG.
Province of rian I'edro Asuncion Paraguay.
January 1903 one female.
This individual is sliohtly smaller than the original measurements for the same sex.
but otherwise is perfectly typical.
CrliVIJ.IX.i.
GRYLLUS LinnKus.
Gryllus assimilis FMbriciu.
177.5.
Achetn a'simili' Faljricius Syt.
Entom. p. 2S0.
Jamaica.
February 1905 one male three females.
These specimens are much paler than Mexican individuals of this species three of them being especiall' light in color.
Gryllus argentinus Saussure.
1874.
Grijllus Arqentinuf Saus.sure Miss.
Scientif.
au Mex.
et I'Amer.
Cent. Orth. p. 399.
Southern Brazil Argentine Republic the north of Patagonia Bueno.s Ayres Bahia Blanca Rio Xegro of Patagonia.
July 1902 February and March.
1905 two males two females.
These specimens agree qvx well with an authentic pair of this species from Buenos Ayres and Rio Grande do Sul Brazil received from Dr.
.aussure.
EXEOPTERIX.E.
ENEOPTERA Bunneister.
1S3S.
Eneoptera Burmeister.
Handb.
d.
Entom. II .bth.
II pt.
I p. 736.
Type.Acheta hrasiliensis Falrieius  Griillus siirinamensis De Geer.
Eneoptera surinamensis De Geer.
1773.
Grifllns Surlmmensis De Geer.
Mem.
Ins. Ill p. IIO pi.
43 ft.
I Surinam.
March.
1905 three males two females.
THE ANATOMY OF CALIFORNIAN HALI0TID5.i BY CLAYTON F. PALMER.
The past few 5ears have witnessed great additions to our knowledge of the anatomy of mollusks and in this phylum probably no group has received more attention than the prosobranchs.
And it is equally true that Avhile the bibliography relating to this last named division has assumed large proportions the results are often of a conflicting nature.
Even the comparatively limited family of the Haliotidoe have received their share of consideration and unfortunately a proportionate amount of confusion as well.
It is thus apparent that the anatomy of Haliotis merits more study especially on account of the position this mollusk occupies among archaic forms.
Something over a year ago while studying in the zoology department of Stanford University Dr. Harold Heath suggested to me that the anatomj' of Haliotis deserved further investigation.
The western coast of North America is the habitat of several species of this mollusk and two of these are readily procurable from the university.
Therefore material was never lacking and as it was of relatively giant size the following results are Ijelieved to be correct.
The material consisted of specimens of Haliotis rufescens Swn.
and H. cracherodii Leach the red and black abalone respectively.
These were taken of various sizes and were examined both by gross dissection and in section.
So far as I know no anatomical details have ever been published concerning any species of Haliotis foimd in this part of the world.
Hence the following may serve to corroborate to some extent certain facts relating to the genus and to correct certain misstatements as well.
Upon opening the mantle cavity of Haliotis one first sees the two well developed ctenidia of the distinct bilamellate type the left being somewhat the larger.
Near their bases and against the ventral wall of the rectum may be seen the papillalike openings of the right and left ureters text fig.
A. RU LU  the right aperture generally has the  The present paper was completed over four years ago and was intended to form a division of a more extended work relating to the anatomy of various mollusks from the western coast of the United States.
Owing to other duties it is impossible to carry out the proposed plan at least wthin the near future and the results in tlioir original form are herewith presented.
1907.
397 more tumid lips of the two.
The left duct leads directly into the main cavity of the excretory organ while the one of the other side opens into a kind of vestibule which in turn communicates with the main body of the organ.
The left kidncn in IJaliotis fi.
1 PI.
XX..
LK has become greatly reduced and highly modified it is now known generally as the papillary sac a term applied to homologous organs in other members of the group.
It lies against the left side of the rectum R and extends backward and to a certain extent over the anterior and left surface of the pericardial wall P.
With the exception of its right or inner side where it is contiguous with the rectum its walls are produced into well developed jjapillae.
A Fig.
A.
 Diagram showing relations oi nephridia poricardium.
gonoduct etc.
For lettering see explanation ol' plate.
Just what functions are sustained ly this organ is not clear though several theories have been advanced.
I'elseneer '96 believes it is phagocytic in character.
Its walls and papillae are richly supplied with the purest blood  the organ seems to be the principal excuse for the existence of the pectiliar interauricular sinus fig.
A 7.4 described by other writers for this genus.
This blood sinus connects the right and left auricles coursing along the outer edge of the wall separating the pericardium and left kidney.
In sections a coimection may be traced between the wall of the papillary sac and the basibranchial sinus.
Its blood supply is similar therefore to that in European species of Haliotis as described by Perrier '89 Wegmann '84 and other workers.
Whatever function is served by the papillie it is very evident judging from their appearance that they are actively secretory by nature.
The right kidney fig.
A RK RK' is the jDrincipal excretor organ in Haliotis.
It is well developed and occupies in the species under discussion a position very similar to that described for the European species H. tuherculata and H. glabra Haller.
From the small chamber IC immediately behind the lobe RU serving as a mouth to the ureter tliere is a species of vestibule opening posteriorly into larger cavities at the right RK and left RK'.
The junction of these is under the forward inner corner of the pericardium P the vestibule C corresponding in position to the papillary sac.
The last named organ and the vestibule of the right kidney are separated by the rectimi which is supported between them by a thin dorsal and ventral partition shown to some extent in fig.
3.
PI.
XXX although this section is too far posterior to indicate clearly their true relations.
Bouvier '88 recorded an interrenal communication in A7npuUaria but this is emphatically denied by Pelseneer '96.
Haller has reported such a state of affairs in Haliotis '' glabra and Trochus gibberosus but very little acceptance has been accorded to the statement.
Communication may possibly exist in certain mollusca but it is doubtful if such a connection is present in the genus Haliotis.
By referring to figs.
1 35 it will be seen that in addition to the close contact of the two nephridia as just explained they are in close proximity at the bottom of the chamber IC.
However a careful examination of several series of sections through these regions gives no hint of any definite connection.
From its junction with the vestibule the cavity of the posterior part of the kidne'' RK' extends beneath the pericardium and around its inner and posterior surface.
The lumen of the anterior portion RK is directed forward toward the columellar muscle.
Xear the latter it enlarges considerabl' in a dorsoventral direction and becomes in shape and size like an almond seed in specimens of a'erage size.
The outlines of the walls of the kidney itself correspond closely with the cavities just described and accordingly are similar in all essential regards to the species described b Wegmann '84 Totzaur '02 and others.
The tissue of the right kidney is nowhere verj'thick it is disposed more as an intervisceral packing material.
The division RK' in the region of the pericardial cavity is a ciu'ved mass of spongy tissue lying under and about the inner side of the pericardium and ending iuuuetliutely bchiml it.s po.
'ilerolatt'ral corner.
Tlie iiitL'stiual lobe RK is somewhat strapshaped and extends well forward toward the head.
In color the rilit kidney is of a grayiih brown tint varying to M buff shade llistolouically the tissue consists of minute pouches or acini which open into small channels these into larger ones and so on to the main ducts.
The cells are of the usual culical form and are crowded with igmented waste products of granular appca.ance.
1 have seen nolhing in my material that seems to warrant any further discussion of the tissue which has been well described by others.
The reproductive sistc7n in Ilaliotis is interesting among other things because of the lateness of its development and the rapidity of the same when once beguiL Careful microscopical examination of small specimens reveals at best only the slightest development or not even a trace of a germinal epithelium.
Even in specimens 3 cm.
long the latter is demonstrated with difhculty.
In averagesized individuals and larger the gonad is well developed especially at the height of the breeding season which occurs earlj in the rear.
The testis is of a cream color the ovary a slaty green.
There is practically no difference in size between the glands of the two sexes very nearly the entire surface of the main visceral mass being covered 1' the organ.
In small specimens of H. cracherodii of about 2 cul in length the whole of the visceral mass to the right of the pericardium except one small area a portion of the stomach is of a brownish color.
This is due to the extensive liver which forms the hornshaped portion of the visceral mass extending along the right posterior curve of the columellar muscle.
At the left of the caecum the stomach is in contact with the body wall and projecting through the lier forms the i regular whitish area noted above.
Examined externalh' specimens fully 5 cuL in length show no clianges from the condition just described.
From this time forward however the development of sexual products commences to manifest itself.
The first outward indication is a grayish tinge at the tip of the horn of the visceral mass which gradually extends itself over the remainder of the liver.
Individuals 6 or at most 7. cm.
in length possess a grayish coating entirely investing the horn.
This thickens and in specimens S cm.
long there is a well established gonad extending to some extent over the main visceral mass.
As may be supposed the thickest part is at the tip of the horn where it measures about 3 mm.
in depth.
The males and females of this size exhibit practically no difference in gonad coloration.
Sections through the gonad of males and females etween 7 and 8 cm.
long revealed sperms or ova that while innnature are in well advanced stages of development.
The ova were of oval form and the heads of the sperms were bacillusshaped.
Even under very high powers no filaments could be detected though themay probably have been destroyed by reagents.
The material it should be added was collected early in October while the breeding season does not begin until some time in January or February.
From the above it is evident that II.
cracherodn does not commence to breed until it is more than 9 cm.
in length and it is certain that sexual activity begins at a somewhat earlier period with the males than the females.
In large specimens the gonad may attain as much as half an inch in thickness along the posterior border of the columellar muscle.
And the cavity only potentially present in early stages becomes now very clearly defined and of considerable size.
Tracing it posteriorly and then to the left one may discover the fimnelshaped gonoduct GO'  figs.
2 3 4 5 text fig.
A.
It bends somewhat to the left and narrows to a flattened tube from 3 to 6 mm.
in diameter.
This opens into the cavity of the kidney at the left border of the gonad and the mouth is provided with a flexible valvelike flap which may serve to prevent the entrance of any sulistances from the kidney.
I have found ripe eggs and sperms in the gonoducts of specimens taken the last of December.
Perrier '89 states that the gonoduct of IlaJiotis is closed except at the breeding season but this is certainly not the case in the two species studied by me.
In all stages the duct has been open and there was a free passage from the gonad to the kidney.
There was no organic obstruction even in specimens 2 cm.
long.
Fleure '02 found ova in the pericardial cavity of H. tuhcrculata but this is probably an accidental occurrence since in the western species the sex products pass from the kidney directly to the exterior.
The renopericardial canals of prosobranchs have of late been the subject of much controversy and at the present time the results of various authors are decidedly conflicting.
Working upon the European species Wegmann '84 Perrier '89 and Erlanger '92 besides other investigators found a left renopericardial canal only.
Fleure 02 examined the same species very carefully but curiously could find no left canal though he did demonstrate the existence of a right canal.
About the same time Totzaur '02 found both canals but neither of these investigators has given us any figures nor a detailed account of these much discussed organs.
Some time previous to the reports of the above named authors Haller stated that he had found both canals in H. glabra and was thus so far as I am aware the first to report such a state of affairs for any species of Haliotidoe.
Ilaliolis uiulouljtedly possesses two renopericardial canals.
I have been able to demonstrate their presence in the two species under discussion in this paper both macroscopically and microscopically.
They may be seen readily in material from upwards of 0.5 cm.
in length the smallest specimens I had to that over 13 cm.
long.
For a study of these canals it will be well to commence with a consideration of sections through specimens about 1.5 cm.
long.
The first five figures should give one a fairly clear idea of the relations of the renopericardial canals pericardium kidneys and gonoduct. Neither of the canals is very long and both may be regarded as funnellike outgrowths of the pericardium.
The left canal RE is however much the wider and can be followed far more readily in material properly prepared.
The left renopericardial canal originates as a wide tube opening into the pericardial cavity somewhat ventral to the point where the rectum pierces the front wall of the same.
Fig.
2 RE' shows the mouth of this duct at the left lower corner of the pericardium and that of the right canal RE at the opposite corner.
The former takes an oblique course along the side and floor of the papillary sac LK into which it opens between the papillae Throughout practicalh' its entire extent it is lined with epithelial cells of moderate height apparently totally devoid of cilia.
The right renopericardial canal RE is a more slender duct extending towards the gonoduct GO from the inner forward angle of the pericardium.
Its inner opening is relatively narrow and is situated immediately beneath the right branchial sinus fig.
2 S.
At the right of the pallial sinus a branch of the branchial sinus it may be seen entering the side of the gonoduct fig.
3.
In fig.
5 which is six sections farther forwards the gonoduct may be seen opening freely into the cavity of the kidney at the point GO.
In this connection it is to be noted that the ventral wall of the gonoduct is very thin and extends for some distance over the cavity of the kidney unsupported by anything except the body wall above it.
The right renopericardial canal in specimens of this size 1.5 cm.
discharges into the left side of the gonoduct very close to the mouth of the latter  more so in fact than is shown at GO in fig.
A.
An examination of large specimens of Haliotis by gross dissection did not at first appear to confirm the results given above.
Accord The sections showii in figs.
1 2 3 4 5 of PI.
XXX were made parallel with the Une AB of fig.
A. ingly similar sections were made throueh the same region in individuals of both species and neglecting individual variation the series showed some interesting relations of organs decidedly unlike those just noted.
From the study of specimens of smaller size it was found that between 1.5 and 3 cm.
in length the renopericardial canal and gonoduct undergo a considerable amount of displacement.
By referring to fig.
4 representing a section through an individual 3 cm.
long it will be seen that the right renopericardial canal and gonoduct have their apertures facing each other.
Material of this size gave very satisfactory results with both species and a study of sections of animals from 1.53 cm.
longmade it readily possible to trace where these organs go in assuming the adult condition.
In individuals 1.5 cm.
long the renopericardial canal which opens into the gonoduct near its end gradually shifts forward to open by the latter by a common lipped mouth.
From this stage on the common mouth of the canal and duct appears to change its position very little if at all.
At the same time the gonoduct in some inexplicable way.
forms for itself a second outlet into the kidney a short distance away from the original mouth.
It is this last named opening that is shown in fig.
4 and the one that in the adult serves for the discharge of the sex products.
The above statements are interesting not only in themselves but they appear to me to explain certain other statements lately made.
Tobler '01 reported a second communication between the gonoduct and kidney in Parmophorus and was followed by Totzaur '02 with the statement that he had found a similar state of affairs in Haliotis.
Neither of these investigators gives the point any explanation  nevertheless I believe both cases may come under the above interpretation.
Blood System.
 In the following discussion of the organs of circulation an attempt has been made to explain certain apparently incorrect statements regarding this genus.
Generally speaking the broader features of the system are already known.
The work of Milne Edwards '47 Lacaze Duthiers and especially Wegmann '84 have done much to advance our knowledge along this line.
Briefly reviewing their work in the light of the California species it may be said that the heart is situated on the left posterior side of the visceral mass a little behind the mantle cavity.
The two auricles open into the ventricle pierced Vy the rectum and ventricular valves prevent the backward flow of blood.
A small anterior aorta fig.
D. Ao supplies blood to a portion of the mantle on the left side.
The first part of its course is upon the dorsal wall of the rectiun.
1U7.1 XATUKAL SCIENCES OF I'llILAUELPHIA.
403 The lower iostcrior end of the ventricle orifrinates the short common aorta which at its first branch bears a memlranous valve.
The visceral aorta arising posteriorly bends beneath the posterior end of the visceral mass supplying blood to the stomach liver gonad and that portion of the right kidney immediately behind the pericardium.
The main artery continues anteriorly coursing along in the wall of the body just above the epipodium.
It soon develops the genital aorta which proceeds towards the columellar muscle giving off branches to the alimentary canal right kidney liver and gonad.
It continues along tlie hornLivet urtcleS Fig.
B.
 Diagram of Haliodft circulation.
shaped portion of the visceral ma.
's branching freely through the liver and gonad.
The main or buccal aorta bends in a gentle ciu've to the buccal mass developing as it courses forward branches to the viscera.
The radula and its sheath lie freely in its lumen figs.
C. D BAo.
and more anteriorly it originates a branch of moderate size which owing to the fact that it supplies the great adductor muscle may he known as the columellar artery fig.
D Co.
Reaching the head the buccal aorta increases in calilre to envelop the buccal mass thus forming the buccal sinus 'entrally this sinus passes into the junction of the two pedal 404 Sept. arteries fig.
D Lpa with which by three short canals the sinus about the pleuropedal gangha is brought into connection.
The foot is thus suppHed by the abovementioned vessels and by the neural arteries surrounding the ventral nerve cords.
The fact that so important a portion of the nervous system literally floats in a blood sinus gives an excellent clue to this portion of the system in Haliotis.
By referring to fig.
C it will be seen that the blood having once gained the sinus about the pleuropedal ganglia is free to work its way about the intestines and to some extent the remainder of the viscera.
The path is not so unobstructed as one might imagine from the figure but even though a considerable amount of connective tissue does surround the gut it is nevertheless penetrated by numerous fairly well defined channels.
M.t Aid Fig.
C.  Section passing through front end of cohnnellar muscle and pleuropedal ganglia.
Aps anterior pedal sinus Apn nerves to front end of foot Lpa lateral pedal artery Mn mantle nerves CE oesophagus Pal.a pallial artery Pl  p pleuropedal ganglia Ps pallial sinus Rr radula muscle Sub Sup suband supraintestinal nerve.
For explanation of other letters see plate.
Following back along the cerebropleural and pedal connectives the blood finds its path readily into the head cavity.
This surrounds the buccal cavity and lies between its wall and that of the head.
In it the cerebral ganglia are situated together with the salivary and sugar glands.
It is somewhat indefinitely bounded but it may be said that it extends posteriorly beyond the hinder border of the sugar glands.
Its wall is of a spongy nature permitting the blood to ooze out of the head cavity into the visceral cavity.
The latter is a true hsemocele as reported by Woodward for Pleurotomaria.
At the left upper and posterior end of the head cavity there arises by two or three roots the main pallial artery.
Passing along the left side of the neck in the body wall fig.
C Pal.a it turns somewhat to the left and enters the 1907.
405 extrcnu v odiiv of tlio mantle.
Sendinga lraiich anteriorly it bends sharjily posteriorly and follows the mantle horder arunnd the visceral mass and up the riht side.
The sections show figs.
C D Pal.
a this vessel on lioth sides of the body.
The artery becomes difficult to trace at the forward left side of the mantle which borders the columellar muscle.
This is the vessel which Milne lulwards and AVegmann dscribe as a vein but tliis is certainly an error as it does not connect with the visceral cavity but with that of the head.
The foot of Ildliotis varies somewhat from that of the Old World species so far as the circulation is concerneil.
The single lateral pedal artery of each side of the epipoilium in .
rufcscens figs.
C D Lpo is curiously enough represented in .
tuhcrculata according to Wegmann by two arteries termed 1y him the suierior pedal and inferior external pedal arteries.
The foot is pierced freely by blood sinuses Fig.
D.  Transverse section through middle of cohunellar muscle ot .
rvfescenn.
Ao anterior aorta Cn cohunellar muscle G P fnonad K anterior portion of rifilit kidney.
I'or other letters see explanation of plate.
and injections pass with ease throughout its entire extent even from arteries into veins or vice versa.
It is therefore readily seen that the blood of the foot is collected into a large median sinus of which two sections may be seen in fig.
D PS.
At the front end of the foot this makes a gentle bend upward immediately behind the pleuropedal ganglia and turning to the left along that side of the columellar muscle proceeds posteriorly.
Throughout the remainder of its coiu'se this sinus is partially imbedded in the anterior lobe of the right kidney fig.
D PS which it drains while en route to the basibranchial sinus.
Its lumen is of more than average size and may be readily followed.
It is therefore with questioning that one considers Wegmann's statement to the effect that anteriorly this sinus in .
tubercidata empties into the visceral cavity.
Can there be such a radical difference between two 27 species of the same fjeiius
Here again it is interesting to note that Pleurotomnria and Haliotis rufescens agree although Woodward who had very Uttle material was not entirely sure of his ground.
The basibranchial sinus PI.
XXX fig.
6 Si is in reality but the branchial end of the median pedal sinus that receives also a few veins NV from the right kidney.
It is provided with a membranous valve F which like the aortic valve has not been hitherto described so far as I am able to learn.
The former suggests a like structure found in the Cephalopoda that likewise prevents a backward flow of blood from the ctenidia.
Reaching these lastnamed organs through the afferent sinuses A Aj' the blood is collected by the efferent vessels figs.
C D Ef and with that of the pallial sinuses passes to the auricles together with blood brought by several minor veins.
Here as in H. iuberculata and some other prosobranchs there is a welldeveloped sinus connecting the two auricles.
Though difficult to demonstrate it appears that the main venous sinus mentioned in the preceding paragraph also partially drains the visceral cavity and portions of the intestines.
The kidney especiall the anterior portion probably aids to a considerable extent in the operation.
But the larger part of the blood passing through this organ is that distributed to the viscera etc. by the visceral and genital arteries.
This is carried to the right kidney by a prominent sinus that is seen lying at the border of the liver immediately behind the columellar muscle and above the genital artery.
The blood is distributed through the tissue of the kidney by means of a meshwork of fine vessels.
In conclusion it may be said that the blood from the papillar' sac drains into the basibranchial sinus.
Bibliography.
BouviER E. L. ltude sur I'Organization des Ampullaires.
Mem.
publ.
par la Societe Philomathique.
Erlanger R. 1S92.
On the Paired Nephridia oi' Prosobranchs.
Quart.
Jour.
Mic.
Sci. Vol.
33.
FleureH.
J.
1902.
Notes on the Relations of the Kidnejin Haliotis fuhcrculata.
Ibid. Vol.
46.
Haller B.
1885.
Beitrage zur Kenntnis der Xiere die Prosobranchier.
Mar ph.
Jahrb. Bd.
11. .
1894.
Studien iiber Docoglosse und Rhipidoglosse Prosobrancliier etc.
Leipzig.
Lankester E. R. 1881.
On the Originally Bilateral Character of the Renal Organs of Prosobranchs etc.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 5 Vol.
7.
Pelseneer p. 1898.
Recherches morpholog.
et phylog.
sur les Molhisques archaic.
Mem.
I'Acad.
ray.
des sci.
de Belgique T. 57.
Thiele J.
1897.
Beitrage zur Kenntnis der Mollusken.
Zcit.
f. w. ZooL Bd.
32.
1907.
NATUUAT.
SCIENCES OF IMII LADKM'III A.
407 TuuLKU M. IDUl.
Zur Aualoinir Mm I'anuopliorus iiitfrnnilius Uocvc.
Jcn.
Zeit.
.
Naturw. lid.
30.
ToTZ.vuKR R. J.
1902.
Xicronund iouadvcrliiiltiiissc un Ualioti.s.
Zoul.
Anz.Bd.2ry.
Wegm.wn II.
ISSI.
Cdiitril.
a riiistoin naturcll' drs Ilalintidcs.
ArcJi.
ZooL cvprr.
2 T. 11.
Woiv.HD M. F. 1901.
Tlie Anatomy of Plrunitoinaria licrichii.
Juart.
Jour ic.
Sri. Vol.
44.
EXPLAXATIOX OF FIGURES.
The loUowinir IcIUt liavc boon used in tho oxplaiiation of tlic ijiures l antorior aorta.
LI blood sinus of lot't kitlnev.
.40 main aorta.
W vestibule of right kidney.
BA buccal aorta.
L liver.
COL cohnnellar muscle.
LU left ureter.
EF loft efferent branchial sinus.
PAL right pallial .sinus.
GA gnital aorta.
R rectum.
GO' gonoduct.
RE RI' renopericardial canals.
GO gonoduct optuiing into right kidRK RK'  kidney lobes.
ney.
RU  right ureter.
 intestine.
VL aortic valve.
EXPL.NATI0X OF PlATE XXX.
Fig.
1.
 Section through both kidneys of specimen of Ilaliolis rufescens 1.5 cm.
long viewed posteriorly.
F hypobranchial gland IC right kidney cavity RD end of radula ST stomach.
Fig.
2.
 Portion of .
rufescens showing pericardium left kidney sinus and gonoduct.
COL columoUar muscle  0 gonad.
Fig.
3.
 Seventh section anterior to fig.
1.
E right efTerent branchial sinus P' right pallial sinus.
Fig.
4.
 Section through right renopericardial canal and gonoduct of H. cracherodii 3 cm.
long.
Fig.
5.
 Sixth section anterior to that shown in fig.
3 showing opening of gonoduct into right kidney.
Fig.
6.
 H. rufescena dorsal wall of mantle reflected and basibranchial sinus opened.
Af Af right and left afferent branchial sinuses HyG hypobranchial gland LCt left ctenidium LU left ureter MC mantle cavity XV veins from right kidney R rectum Si branchial sinus V valve.
NOTES ON THE CIRRIPEDE GENUS MEGALASMA.
r.Y HEXRY A. PILSBRY.
The genus Megalasma was instituted by Dr. P. P. C. Hoek for a pentaspidian barnacle dredged by the Challenger in the Philippine Archipelago  which was said to differ from Poecilasma by having the umbo of the scutum situated on the occludent margin above the basal angle whereas in Pcecilasma the umbo is at the basal angle as in all other LepadirKv.
In my work on the cirripedes of the U. S. National MuseumI had occasion to show that Poecilasma as understood by Hoek and Gruvel consists of two series of species 1 those with the sides of the carina narrow  Pmcilasma Darwin and 2 those with the sides notably widened towards the base.
Moreover this second group differs from Megalasma only by having the base of the scutum nearly at a right angle with the occludent border while in the type of Megalasma the basal margin has rotated through an arc of about 90 bringing it in line with the lower part of the occludent margin.
The position of the umbo is morphologically the same in Megalasma and Poicilasma  that is at the base of the occludent margin proper where this joins the peduncular margin.
The alleged elevation of the umbo on the occludent margin in Megalasma does not exist.
It is merely apparent on account of the continuity of the occludent and peduncular margins as shown in fig.
2a where the umbo is at u the margin of the peduncular orifice at po.
In my opinion therefore the genus Pcecilasma should be restricted to species like those included by Darwin while all forms with the sides of the carina wide and the internal plate well developed must be transferred to Megalasma.
The mere change in the shape of the scutum at the borders of the peduncular foramen is insufficient for the separation of genera.
Megalasma in the limits here assigned is distinguished from Poecilasma by the structure of the carina which has wide sides near the base and a welldeveloped oblique plate or septum within the base bridging across the cavity of the carina and terminating above in two projections or teeth.
The species of Poecilasma chiefly live upon the cara' Challenger Report VIII Cirripedia p. 50 1SS3.
2 Bulletin of the U. S. Nat.
Mtis. No.
60 p. 82 1907.
1907 XATriJAI.
SriF.NCES OF PHir.ADKI.l'iriA.
409 paces of crabs while Mcnalasnid has been t'ouiid uKiiiily on seaurdiin spines and upon otlier cirripohs.
Megalasina carinodcutaliDn Weltner' was describecl from a single example and derived its name from the projection or tooth on the roof of the carina.
Tliis rojection however may very likely be pathologic consequent upon an injury at the end of th carina when half iirown.
CdMPAUISOX OK M. IJKLLU.M AND M. MIXUS.
.1.
helium Pils.'
is closely related to M. minus Annandale.'''
The receipt of specimens of tlie latter which 1 owe to the courtesy of Dr. N. Annandalc of the Indian Museum enables me to compare the two species more thorougiily tluui has hitherto been possible since the Fip.
1.
 Megaliisma minus Annaiid.
a lateral and b entral view X 7.
po margin of tlie peduncular orifice.
Fig.
2.
 M. helium Pils.
a lateral and b ventral view X 4. u umbo of the scutum.
published figures show onh' the external aspect of the capitulum and the internal features have not been described or figured.
Megalasnm minus and M. helium are alike in' general shape and in sculpture but differ in size and in various details of the scuta and ' Silzungftherichte der Gesellschaft naturforschender Freunde zu Berlin Jahrg.
1891. p. 84.
 PftcUasma bellum Pilsbry Bulletin of the Bureau of Fisheries XXVI p. 183. pi.
IV fig.
6 June 29 1907.
This paper was prepared in 1905 hence before I knew of the existence of .1.
minus.
 Megalasmn striatum subsp.
tninus .nnandale .1 tnials and Magazine of Natural Historii SOT.
7 XMT p. 399 April 1906 Illu.strations of the Zoology of the Royal Indian Marine Svuev Ship Investigator Entomostraca pi.
1 fig.
8 1907.
410 Sept. carina.
M. minus is slightly narrower than M. helium throughout.
The dimensions of the type were not given by Dr. Annandale in his original account but the name implies that it is smaller than M. striaium which has a capitulum 11 mm.
long.
The figure of his type subsequent
 published is said to be enlarged six diameters which would make the capituhun about 9 mm.
long.
The largest specimen I have seen a 9 bearing a large mass of eggs measures 6.5 mm.
in length of capitulum.
M. helium attains a much greater size.
The type is 14.5 mm.
long and I have seen a great number of specimens from many localities with capitula from 12 to 15 mm.
long.
Fig.
3.
 a internul view of the left scutum and tergum of M. minus X 10 and 6 M. helium X 5.
The lateral borders of the peduncular foramen in a lateral view of the capitulum are nearly straight in M. helium fig.
2 po but in M. minus these margins arch outwards more or less strongly fig.
1 po.
The primitive valves visible at the umbones are convex densely cellular in both species irregularly trapezoidal in outline with subparallel occludent and dorsal borders the latter much the shorter.
The anterior basal end is squarely truncate the posterior end oblique.
In M. minus the primitive valves measvtre 0.66 mm.
long 0.25 wide pl.31  1907.
411 fig.
9.
Ill .1.
helium the valves are a little wider nieasurinp 0.75 x 0.3 mm.
Ill hotii species a ritlge or angle close to the occludent bonier of the scutum defines a narrow and nearly flat ventral area and towards the base a smooth sunken area separates the primitive valves and the sculptured portions of the scuta as shown in figs.
b 'lb.
The scuta when removed are seen to differ in various respects.
The occludent border is more bowed in .1.
bdlum and the basal portion below the umbonal tooth is wider than in .1.
minus.
In oth species the umbonal tooth is stout and higii in ltli valves.
There is no socket in the carinal margin for the reception of tiie tooth of the carina such as Hoek described and figured in M .
striatum see fig.
3.
h m Fig.
4.
 M. minus carina in i'entral Fig.
.5.
 M. helium carina in ventral and lateral views.
and lateral views.
The carina in M. minus fig.
4 has much narrower sides which are more expanded at the basolateral angles.
The basal margin has a rounded median projection and the articulating teeth are larger.
In M. bdlum fig.
5 the basal margin is simply arcuate.
In other respects the carinas are similar.
The shape of the base of the carina affects the shape of the peduncular foramen as viewed from the ventral side see figs lb and 26.
The difference of shape is equally pronounced if M. minus is compared with young specimens of M. helium of equal size.
In M. minus the basal angles of the carina are more produced and spread apart farther than in M .bdlum.
The septum across the cavity is situated.
412 Sept. higher than in species of the subgenus Glyptelasma lut otherwise the carina is very similar to that of G. subcarinatum etc.
The carina of M. minus ilhistrated fig.
4 is 4.8 mm.
long that of M. bellum fig.
5 is 7.8 mm.
long.
The terga are similar in general shape in M. minus M. bellum and M. carinodentatum.
In the former two there is a small acute tooth on the scutal margin near the occludent end.
In M. striatum the terga are much higher and are pointed at the carinal end.
The peduncle is slightly longer in M. helium than in M. minus though it is very short in both species.
In M. helium the first cirrus has rami of 8 segments the outer ramus broader with the segments conspicuously convex and profusely spinose Fig.
G.  M. minus 7th and Stli sc raents of einis '.'
Fig.
7 A.
bellum lOtli and lltli .segments of cirrus '.
on both marigns.
The inner face is also profusely spinose.
It is very like the first cirrus of M. striatum as figured by Hoek.
The inner ramus is narrower only the distal segments projecting laterally.
The posterior margins and inner face of each segment is spinose.
The other cirri are slender with 16 to 19 segments.
Except the basal and distal segments they have four pairs of large and one pair of small spines on the anterior border of each segment and a tuft of three or four unequal small spines at the distal posterior angle of each segment fig.
7 lOth and 11th segments of cirrus V. '
Challenger Report VIII Cirripedia pi.
2 fig.
9. '
In this figure the cirri of M. minus are represented on a hirger scale than those of M. helium.
Thej are actually very much smaller.
1007.
XATIUAL SCIENCES OF I'll I LADKIJ'IIIA.
413 111 .1.
tNinits the lirst ciiii arc foniietl about as in .1.
bcUiini.
Tlie other cirri are eoinparatively more slender with only three pairs of loufi spines on the front niariin of each senu'nt.
and a fourth very minute pair below them.
Tlie posterior distal angle of each segment lias one long spine a shorter one and usually one or two minute spines fig.
.
7tii and 8th segments of cirrus V.
The cirri of .1.
hcUum resemble those of .1.
striatuin.
and M. cariinittni.
while those of .1.
viinus are like tlu cirri of M. gracile as lescried 1lloek.
It will he understood that in comparisons of the cirri the intrnieliato segments are described unless otherwi.se stated riu distal and proximal segments generally have fewer pairs of spines on the front margin.
'Vhr socimkI cirrus usually has additional spincv.
variously arranged.
In .1.
minus the mandible pi.
31 figs.
7 8 has four acute teeth counting the lower point.
The space between the upper and second teeth is double that separating the other teeth.
Below the lower tooth there is a slender spine representing the lower point developed in most species of Megalasma and Pcecilasma and shown enlarged in fig.
8.
Both upper and lower borders of the mandible have delicate spiny fringes the spinules in art arranged in pairs.
The two mandibles are alike in the example dissected.
The maxilla pi.
31 fig.
6 has a deep notch below the upper pair of arge spines.
Below the notch the edge projects and is closely spinose as usual.
The upper and lower borders are delicately fringed.
In M. bellum the mandibles pi.
31 figs.
1 2 3 4 resemble those of M. minus except in having the lower point split into two teeth figs.
3 4 on one side of the individual examined there being therefore five teeth in all.
The other mandible of the same individual has the lower point split into foiunarrow teeth figs.
12.
Part of the spines on the surface near hv lower points stand in groups of two or three as shown in the detail figs.
2 and 4.
They also are in groups on the upier edge of the mandible but elsewhere stand singh The surface spines are drawn with camera in figs.
2 4 and S but in the other figures only the general effect is given.
The maxilla pi.
31 fig.
5 resembles that of M. minus except for the somewhat greater protrusion of the lower part of the spinose edge.
The hermaphrodite form of .1.
bellum has a long penis sparsely hairy with a more profuse bmich of hairs at the distal entl.
The individual of .1.
minus dissected contained a large eggmass.
The eggs are ovatepiriform 0.23 mm.
long pi.
31 .
fig.
10.
It will be seen from the above descriptions and figures that while related M. minus antl M. helium differ in many details of structure the scuta carina cirri and mandibles all being diverse in the two forms which must be held specifically distinct.
M. striahmi Hoek is related to M. helium by the cirri and mandibles but differs in the terga and the sculpture of the bases of scuta and carina etc.
It differs from M.ininus by the same characters of the plates and also by the armature of the cirri and to some extent in the mandilles.
MeGALASMA GR AGILE AND M. GRACILIUS.
Megalasma gracile Hoek was originally described as Pcccilasma gracile from a Challenger station off Sydney New South Wales.
I have elsewhere called attention to the doubt attaching to material from this station owing to the mixture therein of molluscan species otherwise kno'n only from the Atlantic with others known to be Australian.
 That Megalasma gracile was really from the Australian station is rendered more probable by the discovery of several specimens in the Indian Ocean by the Indian Marine Survey as recorded by Dr. Annandale. The western Atlantic M. g. gracilius may prove to be identical with Hoek's form yet in view of the wide geographic separation and of several minor differences in the plates I have thought best to segregate it as a subspecies.
This course is likely to prove less injurious to science than an inconsiderate lumping of forms from widely separated areas without actual comparison of specimens.
Dr. Ploek has written well on this topic.
 The cirri of M. gracilius differ somewhat from those of M. gracile as described l3y Hoek. He states that the posterior pair of cirri have segments bearing as a rule four pairs of spines the lowest pair of which is very minute the second pair minute.
In M. gracilius the posterior cirri have five or six pairs of spines the lower pair minute on the 6th to 10th segments beyond that point there are four pairs then decreasing to three and finally one or two on the outermost segments.
Cirri iii to vi are practically alike.
Cirrus ii has many additional spines partly disposed in a row parallel to that on the anterior border partly arising along the distal border of each segment.
The inner ramus is mucli the longer comiosed of 15 segments the outer having 13 segments.
 Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. o.
60 p. S9.
 Rexords of the Indian Mufieum I pt.
1 p. S1 ' ChaUengcr Report VIII Cirripedia p. 145. 
CJiidlfiKjtr Report Cirripedia p. 47.
1007.
XATfUAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA.
415 The inaudible of M. iniciliu.s is similar to lloek's liune of that of M .
iracilc.
the lower point being minutely iMfiil.
Key to Species of Megalasma.
a.
 Pchuicular margins of scutum and carina continuous with the occludent margin in the same direction the umlxj of the scutimi therefore aliove the basal angle of the plate.
IndoPacific province Megalasma s. sir.
b.
 A pedimcular area on each side defined by a semicircular ridge on the bases of scutum and carina roof of the carina very wide width of scutum about twothirds its length tergum triangular the occludent margin about half the length of the scutal.
rapituluni 11 mm.
long.
Philipine Archipelago 1.
striatum Irloek.
h'.
 Peduncular area defined by a semicircular groove width of scutum slightly more than half its length tergum cjuadrangular the occludent margin about onefourth as long as the scutal margin.
Capitulum 6.5 mm.
long.
Indian Ocean M. carinodcntatum Weltner.
h .
 Xo distinctly defined pedimcular area on the liases of scuta and carina scutum nearly twice as long as wide occludent margin of tergun about onethird the length of the scutal margin.
c.  Basal margin of carina straight with a rounded median projection the sides narrower than in P. helium lateral margins of the peduncular orifice arched forward.
Capitulum 6.5 to mm.
long.
Segments of the cirri w4th 3 pairs of large spines 1 pair of ver' small ones.
Andaman Sea .
.
M. minus Annandale.
c'.
 Basal margin of carina convex deeply arched the sides wide lateral lorders of the peduncular orifice straight.
Capitulum 12 to 15 mm.
long.
Segments of cirri with 4 pairs of long spines 1 pair of small ones.
Hawaiian Islands M. helium Pilsbry.
a'.
 Peduncular or basal margin of scutum making about a right angle with the occludent margin the umbo of the scutmn at the basoventral angle of the plate.
.
subgenus Glyptelasma Pilsbry.
h.  Umbo of the carina projecting beaklike behnv the base of the scutum and making an angle with it.
c.  Basal margin of carina as long as the basal margin of the scutum internal basal plate long lozengeshaped sides wide in the lower half.
d.  Peduncle about onethird the length of the capitulum  basal margin of scutum half the width of carina near its base.
Capitulum 7 nun.
long.
Off Australia Indian Ocean.
.
.
.
.1.
fracic Hoek.
d'.
 Peduncle extremely short basal margin of scutmn about equal to the width of the carina posterior cirri with more numerous spines.
Capitulum 11 to 12.7 mm.
long.
Off eastern United States 71.
g. gracilius Pilsbry.
c' .
 Basal margin of carina shorter than that of the scutum internal plate short wdder than long sides wide in the lower third.
Capitulum 19 mm.
long.
Off eastern United States .... M. annandalei Pilsbry.
h'.
 Umbo of the carina not produced elow the basal margin of the scutum.
c.  Occludent margin of scutum nearly straight carina with rather narrow sides abruptly spreading and auriculate at the base the basal margin a straight line.
Capitulum 15.5 mm.
long.
Off eastern United States M. rectum Pilsbry.
c'.
 Occludent margin arched carina with wide sides and a large internal basal plate its basal margin Vshaped as seen from below.
d.  Jjength of capitulum three times its breadth the base narrow scutum almost smooth.
Length 14 mm.
Off Culebra and Ascension Islands M. carinaium Hoek.
d'.
 Length of capitulum twice its breadth  scutum sculptured wdth spaced concentric grooves and fine radial impressions.
Capitulum 16 to 25 mm.
long.
Off eastern Lnited States M. suhcarinatum Pilsbry.
Explanation of Plate XXXL Figs.
14.
 Megalasma hdlum Pils..
Mandille.s and more enlarged lower points of same.
Fig.
5.
 M. helium.
Maxilla.
Fig.
6.
 M .
minus Annand.
Maxilla.
Figs.
7 8.
 M. minus.
Mandible and its lower point more enlarged.
Fig.
9.
 M. minvs.
Outline of primitive shell and adjacent margin of the scutmii.
Fig.
10.
 M. 77inus.
iioup of ova.
PLATE X.V.
M OORE.
NEW SPIONIFORMIA.
PLATE XVI.
MOORE.
NEW SPIONIFORMIA.
PLATE XVll.
Kr BURNETT SMITH ON PYRULA.
CRAWLEY ON GREGARINES PLATE XIX.
PILSBRY.
JAPANESE WHELKS.
PLATE XX.
  I PILSBRY.
JAPANESE WHELKS.
PLATE XXI.
VANATTA.
LEAF HAIRS OF LESQUERELLA.
PLATE XXIIl CONKLIN.
EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR.
PLATE XXIV.
CONKLIN.
EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR.
PLATE XXV.
CON KLIN.
EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR.
PROC.
ACAD NAT.
SCl.
PHILA.
1907.
PLATE XXVI.
CONKLIN.
EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR.
PLATE .X.XVII.
CONKLIN.
EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR.
PLATE XXVIII.
CONKLIN.
EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR.
PROC.
ACAD NAT.
SCI.
PHILA.
1907.
PLATE XXIX.
I'ilsbrv flel.
PILSBRY.
PACIFIC CIRRIPEDES.
PLATE XXX.
E RE O O ' iiikiiy MO L Ct. C.FPJel PALMER ON HALIOTIDE PLATE XXXI.
6 8 mW 10 PILSBRY ON THE CIRRIPEDE GENUS MEGALASMA October 1.
Arthur Erwin Brown D.Sc VicePresident in the Chair.
Fifteen persons present.
The Secretaries Librarian and Curators reported on the work of the summer.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication since the last meeting   Notes on the Leaf Hairs of Lesquerella by E. G. Vanatta May 23.
Notes on Serranidae by Ilemy W. Fowler May 25.
Orthoptera from Northern Florida by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard June 12. 
Bertramia bufonis a new Sporozoan Parasite of Bufo Icntiginosus by Helen Dean King June 12.
Moundville Revisited by Clarence B. Moore July 11.
Crystal River Revisited by Clarence B. Moore July 11.
Mounds of the Lower Chattahoochee and Lower Flint Rivers'' by Clarence B. Moore July 11.
Notes on the Ten Thousand Islands Florida by Clarence B. Moore July 11.
The Embryology of Fulgur A Study of the Influence of Yolk on Development by Edwin G. Conlvlin July 12.
Notes on some Pacific Cirripedes by Henry A. Pilsbry July 16.
The Anatomy of California Haliotidae by Clayton F. Palmer July 23.
On the Synonymic History of the Genera Clava 'Martyn and Ceritliium Bruguiere by William Healy Dall July 26.
Orthoptera of the Families Tettigonidse and Gryllidai from Sapucay Paraguay by James A. G. Rehn August 14.
Notes on the Cirripede Genus Megalasma by Henry A. Pilsbry September 25.
A Collection of Fishes from Victoria Australia by Henry W. I'owler October 1.
28 The four papers by Mr. Clarence B. Moore will constitute the third number of Volume XIII of the Journal of the Academy.
The deaths of Joseph E. Gillingham 1906 and Angelo Heilprin July 17 1907 members and of Sir Joseph Fayrer M.D. a correspondent were announced .
October 15.
Arthur Erwin Brown D.Sc VicePresident in the Chair.
Sixtysix persons present.
The death of Anna T. Jeanes a member September 24 1907 was announced.
Dr. Henry Leffman made a speculative communication on life in other worlds considering some of the data on which the assumption of life elsewhere might be based.
No abstract.
Dr. F Creighton Wellman and Edgar T. Wherry were elected members.
The following was ordered printed  1007.1 NAITHVL SCIENCES OF I'l 1 1 1  DIChPlHA.
419
