A NOTE REGARDING THE CHINESE ALLIGATOR.
BY THOMAS BARBOUR.
The existence of a true alligator in China is one of the most interesting and remarkable facts which has ever been brought to the notice of zoogeographers.
Specimens are rare in collections and it is probable that the example which has led to this note is the first one to be received by an American Museum.
The Museum of Comparative Zoology received a few days ago a most excellent mounted specimen with skull of an alligator which was brought from the region near the mouth of the Yangtse River by Captain Thomas Golding.
and given to Dr. W. T. Hornaday who had it in his private collection for seven years.
Dr. Hornaday very kindly gave it to the writer and it is a great pleasure to thank him most heartily for what has proved an extremely welcome addition to the reptile collection of the Museum.
To the average American naturalist the fact that our American alligator has a close congener in the Yangtse in China is unknown.
and for that reason I am presenting here a short history of our knowledge of this most interesting creature.
In 1870 Mr. Swinhoe a wellknown authority on Chinese zoology wrote in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London p. 410 the following In February 1869 some Chinese were exhibiting in the native city of Shanghai what they called a dragon which they declared had been dug out of a hole in the province of Shense.
It was a young crocodile about four feet long which they kept in tepid water.
They made so much money by showing it that they refused to sell it.
I can not of course guess its species but I nevertheless think the fact worth recording as evidence that a species of this group does occur in China.
Nine years later Mr. A.
A. Fauvel of the Imperial Chinese Maritime Customs and the Honorary Curator of the Shanghai Museum wrote a long description and historical account 1 of the Yangstze alligator.
As this publication is not always easily obtainable it may be well to note briefly some of the interesting points which Fauvel brings out.
It apparently has been known since the earliest times in Chinese Jour.
No.
China Br.
Roy.
Asiat.
Soc XIII 1879 pp.
l36f. 3 pi.
literature and there is mention of its growing to over ten feet in length and that its skin was formerly much used for drumheads.
It is however generally spoken of as being from five to six feet long.
It may have existed formerly in various parts of China and we are told that the Canton Annals say that the head can be cut off and dried before the animal dies the muzzle can be broken into pieces and all the teeth pulled out and still it lives the Cantonese having a remarkable belief in the creature's great tenacity of life the scales of the dragon are used as medicine.
The are supposed to cure diseases of the heart and intestines fevers and female disorders diseases arising from fear nosebleeding and toothache.
They are also valued as a vermifuge as a remedy for goitre and skin diseases.
Fauvel notes its history in Chinese literature since the Wu dynasty or from about 22227 A.D.
Curiously enough it has been very little mentioned in foreign works on China.
Marco Polo and Father M. Martini both knew of it but the former spoke only from hearsay while the priest derived his information from native literature Martini Atlas Sinensis Amsterdam 1656.
In Martini we find the following Ad urbis ortum est lacus parvus Go in quo olim Rex Pegao decern aluit crocodilos quibus ut devorarentur objicere solebat reos et sceleratos ab iis innocentes numquam laesos fuisse narrant adeoque quos crocodili non occiderent liberi eo ipso tanquam vacantes omni culpa abire jubebantur.
Martini also tells us that at Chingkiang they infested the river to the great terror of the people.
Morrison in his monumental Chinese dictionary states positively that crocodiles occur in the Yangtse River and Wells Williams in The Middle Kingdom also speaks of its occurrence  but his information also may have been derived from his studies of Chinese literature.
The Shanghai Evening Courier for March 17 1869 contains a humorous account of several Englishmen who went to see a crocodile exhibited in the native city of Shanghai.
The Chinese who had it said that it came from the mountains of Kiangsi.
The Europeans presumed that it had been brought from Siam however and vaguely suggested that they might possibly be looking at a new species little realizing that they actually were.
Fauvel has collected much other data.
He states for instance that he received a letter from Mr. Reynolds also in the Customs service who saw a tame one in a temple pool near Nanking in April 1853.
Several were reported seen in the Yangtse near Chingkiang by officers of gunboats and river steamers while others were said to have been kept alive in temples thereabouts.
It seems that it has been considered an act of merit for Buddhist priests to buy the creatures from their captors whenever possible and free them.
Fauvel got his first specimen in April 1879 and he published an account of it in the North China Daily News on the 9th of May.
This specimen was dug from the mud of the river bank near Wuhu.
He later obtained a second specimen from Chingkiang and later still got a skull in the native city of Shanghai.
He mentions two beingkept alive by Herr von Mollendorff German Consul at Shanghai who got his from Poyang Lake.
Fauvel discusses the fact that the creature is also spoken of in Korean literature and seems rather to incline toward the belief that it will ultimately be found in rivers or lakes of southern Korea.
This however is extremely unlikely and it has only been definitely proved to exist in the lower Yangtse River and its affluents.
Fauvel sent his type to Paris.
We next hear of it in Yaillant.
2 This was simply a condensed digest translated into French of Fauvel' s original description.
Von Mollendorff himself published a note 3 on the specimens which he procured.
In 1888 Dr. Oscar Boettger 4 published a note regarding the history of the discovery of the species by Swinhoe and Fauvel and regarding the living specimens belonging to von Mollendorff.
In 1890 Dr. G. A. Boulenger 5 published a paper entitled Remarks on the Chinese Alligator a specimen having been received at the British Museum and two others alive at the Gardens of the Zoological Society.
He contributed some notes regarding variations among characters previously supposed to be diagnostic but which were really inconstant.
His figures are excellent.
Boettger mentions it again in the collection of Dr. Schmacker in  Materialien zur herpetelogischen Faune von China III.
6 In 1898 Yaillant 7 contributed an excellent account in his Contribution a l'etude des Emydosauriens.
Up to the present time in these various publications but ten specimens altogether appear to have come to the collections of museums in the Old World.
As a considerable number of specimens lack definite data it is impossible as yet to limit its range with any degree of certainty.
Most of the specimens have been taken near the two towns 3 Ann.
Sc.
Nat. 6th IX Art.
8 1880.
3 Sitz.
Ber.
Niederrhein.
Ges.
Bonn 1880 p. 32.
4 Ber.
Offenbach.
Ver.
f.
Nat. 1889 1888 p. 111.
5 Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London p. 619 pis.
51 52 8 Ber.
Senck.
Nat.
Ges. 1894. p. 142.
 7 Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
Paris 3 X 1898 p. 206 pi.
13. of Wuhu and Chingkiang though records exist for Poyang Lake and Nangking.
Thus it will be seen that the distribution is peculiarly circumscribed.
Gadon states that alligator remains have been found in European fluviatile deposits of the Upper Chalk age.
In fact they did not completely disappear from Europe until as late as the Pliocene.
The Chinese alligator is a survivor in a limited area as is our alligator of some form which once had a holarctic distribution.
The present specimen agrees very closely with Fauvel's original description and has the regular three pairs of nuchal plates.
It is just fortyeight inches long of which the head takes up onesixth.
Fauvel's adult specimen was five feet eight inches in length.
Thus it will be seen that this might almost be spoken of as a dwarf species.
Since the above was written I have heard that Dr. Wolterstorff of Magdeburg has a specimen no data given 145 cm.
in length.
NOTES ON BATOID FISHES.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The raylike fishes contained in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia are listed in this paper.
1.
Some Preoccupied Names.
In looking over the literature on this subject a number of names were found to be preoccupied which are not represented in our collection by specimens and for them I have substituted the following Raja montagui nom.
sp.
now For Raia maculata Montagu Mem.
Wern.
Soc II 181116 p. 426 preoccupied by Raja maculata Shaw Gen.
Zool. VII 1803 p. 16 which is identical with Raja torpedo Linnaeus.
Raja brachyurops nom.
sp.
nov. For Raja brachyura Gunther Rep.
Challenger Zool. I 1880 p. 20 PL 6 preoccupied by Raia brachyura Lafont Act.
Soc.
Linn.
Bordeaux XXVIII 1871 p. 503 PI.
28.
Raja bon.espeiexsis nom.
sp.
nov. For Raja capensis Miiller and Henle Syst.
Besch.
Plag. 1838 p. 151 preoccupied by Raja capensis Gmelin Syst.
Nat.
Linn. 1788 p. 1512 which is identical with Narke Kaup.
Raja steindachxeri nom.
sp.
nov. For Raja chilensis Steindachner Zool.
Jahrb.
Suppl.. IV 1898 p. 332 preoccupied by Raia chilensis Guichenot Gay's Hist Chile II 1848 p. 367.
This species appears close to Raja lima Poeppig.
Raja agassizi ribeiroi nom.
sub.
sp.
nov. For Raja agassizi var.
picta Ribeiro A Lavoura Bol.
Soc.
Agric.
Rio Janeiro 1904 p. 19 preoccupied by Raja picta Lacepede Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IV 1803 p. 676.
Discotrygon nom.
gen. nov.
Type Discobatis marginipinnis Maclay and Macleay.
For Discobatis Maclay and Macleay Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
N. S. Wales X 1885 p. 676 type Discobatis marginipinnis Maclay and Macleay preoccupied by Garman Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1881 p. 523 for Discobatidce type Rhina sinesis Schneider.
Maxos disk rpuywv Trygon.
1910.
469 2.
List of Species in the Collection.
PRISTID.
Pristis perotteti Mailer and Henle.
Several saws most likely this species from Bahia Gulf of Mexico and Surinam.
Pristis pectinatus Latham.
Many saws from near Matamoras Essequebo River West Indies and Atlantic Ocean.
RHINOBATIDJ.
Rhynchobatus djeddensis Forskal.
One from Padang Sumatra.
Rhinobatos rhinobatos Linnaeus.
Rhinobatus columnceBonaparte Icon.
Faun.
Ital. Pesc.
Ill pt.
2 XIV XVII 183536 descr. PI.
Italy.
Cotypes of R. columnce and dried example from Beirut Syria.
Four examples.
Rhinobatos leuoorhynchus Gunther.
One from Panama.
Rhinobatos productus Girard.
One from Santa Barbara.
Fig.
1.
 Platyrhinoidis triseriatus Jordan and Gilbert.
Cotype of Platyrhina triseriata Jordan and Gilbert.
Platyrhinoidis triseriatus Jordan and Gilbert.
Fig.
1.
Platyrhina triseriata Jordan and Gilbert Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1SS0 p. 36.
Santa Barbara Cal.
Cotype of P. triseriata and two young from Monterey Cal.
RAJID3.
Kaja erinacea Mitchill.
Ten examples from Castine Me.
 Wood's Holl Mass.
 Sea Isle City and Green Creek N.
J..
Eaja ocellata Mitchill.
Five examples from same localities as last.
Raja radiata Donovan.
Four eggcases or purses from Manasquan N. J. may in part refer to this species.
All contain embryos two having very long tails thus seeming to agree with Goode and Bean's suggestion.
1 Three of eggcases agree in having tendrils entire and these contained longtailed embryos.
The other egg had the tendrils coarsely corrugated and contained a shorttailed embryo which I cannot determine.
The eggs are of nearly equal size their bodies measuring about 2 inches.
Another egg labelled Corsica from Rev.
R. H. Mossam contained a fullydeveloped embryo unquestionably close to if not identical with the present species.
It differs from Goode and Bean's figure chiefly in the absence of spines on the posterior pectoral regions.
If my determination be correct the occurrence of this species on the New Jersey coast is interesting as this will prove the first record.
The New Jersey eggs were received from Dr. H. C. Everts.
Eaja eglanteria Lacpede.
Four examples from Atlantic City Sea Isle City Grassy Sound and Green Creek N.
J..
Raja binoculata Girard.
Two from Pacific Grove Cal.
Kaja stellulata Jordan and Gilbert.
Raia stellulata J. G. Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1880 p. 133.
Monterey Cal.
Cotype of R. stellulata.
Eaja oxyrinchus Linnseus.
Five from Italy.
Raja macrorynchus Rafinesque.
Five from Italy.
1 Ocean.
Ich. 1895 p. 25.
Raja batis Linnaeus.
One from Italy.
Raja rostrata Lacpede.
Six from Italy.
This is R. marginata Bonaparte.
Raja clavata Linnaeus.
Seven from Italy.
Raja brachyura Lafont.
One from the Mediterranean in the Bonaparte Coll.
This seems to be Lafont's species and possibly Raia blanda Holt may be identical.
Raja punctata Risso.
Four from Italy.
Wrongly identified by Bonaparte with R. batis L Raja rhomboidalis Tilesius.
Nine examples from Italy.
Following Blainville's suggestion 2  the account by Tilesius is very likely identical with that of Delaroche Possibly R. osbeckii Walbaum 3  R. machuelo W. 3  R. hispanica Schneider 4 may be older synonyms
Raja miraletus Linnaeus.
Twelve examples from Italy.
Raja quadrimaculata Risso.
Two from Italy.
Raja circularis Conch.
R. falsavela Bonaparte Icon.
Faun.
Ital. Pesc.
Ill pt.
2 XXVI 1839 descr. PI.
Italy.
Type of R. falsavela in poor condition.
Raja radula Delaroche.
One from Italy.
Raja meerdervoortii Bleeker.
Two from Hakodate.
Psammobatis brevicaudatus Cope.
Fig.
2.
Proc.
Am.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XVII 1877 p. 48.
Bav of Pecasmavo Peru.
Type of P. brevicaudatus.
2 Faun.
Franc Vert. 1825 p. 26.
3 Pet.
Arted.
Gen. Pise III 1792 p. 532 based on O.beek.
Syst.
Ich.
Bloch. 1801 p. 369 based on Osbeok.
472 May 1 .
 ' X I I  HI J Fig.
2.
 Psammobatis brccicaudalus Cope.
Type.
NARCOBATIDJ.
Narcobatus torpedo Linnaeus.
Ten from Italy.
EUNAB.CE subgen.
nov.
Type Torpedo narke Risso.
Differs from subgenus Narcobatus in having the spiracle fringes as rudimentary papillae while in subgenus Tetronarce they are entirely absent.
Eu  genuine vapxq i Narce the ancient name of the typical species.
Narcobatus narke Risso.
Nine from Italy.
In this case Risso and Rafinesque are synchronous and I allow the former's name as it is on an earlier page besides having gamed usage.
Narcobatus nobiliana Bonaparte.
Torpedo nobiliana Bon. Icon.
Faun.
Ital. Pesc.
Ill pt.
2 XII 1835 descr. PI.
Italy.
Cotypes of T. nobiliana.
Twentythree examples.
Narcobatus occidentalis Storer.
Four from Pacific Grove and Soquel Cal.
Storer's figure shows a very large first dorsal and its origin about over first fourth in entire ventral length so that hind margins of both fins are on a line.
His description says  it is situated at the posterior portions of the pectorals one half of its base being posterior to those fins.
Goode's figure shows an example from Wood's Holl with first dorsal origin well posterior or about opposite posterior basal fourth of ventral.
Jordan and Evermann pointed out differences between Atlantic and Pacific forms from North America stating the former to be nearly uniform black rarely spotted and having the first dorsal over middle of ventrals all of which can be found in my examples noted above from the Pacific.
At the same time they reproduce Goode's figure and my Soquel specimen the former certainly more in agreement with some of my Pacific examples and the latter approaching nearer that of Storer.
The question of spotted coloration does not seem to me reliable.
Narcine brasiliensis Olfers.
One from Key West.
DASYATIDJE.
Urolophus halleri Cooper.
One from San Pedro Cal.
Urolophus nebulosus Garman.
One from San Diego Cal.
Urolophus jamaicensis Cuvier.
Two from Florida and Cuba.
Urolophus mundus Gill.
Three young from Panama.
Taeniura lymma Forskal.
One from Padang Sumatra.
Dasyatis uamak Forskal.
Three from Padang Sumatra one now in Stanford University.
Dasyatis centroura Mitchill
Young without data most likely this species.
Dasyatis aldrovandi Risso.
Three tails probably this species from the Mediterranean.
Dasyatis akajei Mailer and Henle.
Four young from Onomichi Japan.
Dasyatis say Le Sueur.
Four from Delaware Bay off Green Creek wrongly thought by me to be D. centroura.
5 The rediscovery of the present species in New Jersey is of considerable interest as it has not before been correctly 5 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1909 p. 407. identified from there since Le Sueur's time.
In 1S38 Miiller and Henle report one from New York  and in 1882 Garman notes it from the same locality with others from Florida and Brazil.
The differences pointed out by the latter in separating this species from Trygon hastata De Kay do not seem to me to be altogether conclusive that the latter is really a species distinct from the present.
My examples seem to cover the alleged points of difference to a great extent.
Small examples seem to be entirely smooth and others have three short rows of spines on middle of disk when large.
In the summer of 1907 I first thought these rays were most likely the present species but the variation seemed to confuse them with T. hastata.
The character of a broad fold above and below on the tail may be reliable but my examples also show three series of tubercles on shoulders at least the large ones.
Others with broad tail folds also show the median vertebral row of thorns distinct and becoming enlarged posteriorly besides a roughened tail.
In fact.
I have noted examples which agree with Le Sueur's figure of Raja say and De Kay's and Storer's of Trygon hastata and that these are individual variations due to age and sex I have no doubt.
Dasyatis sabina Le Sueur.
Two from Bayport Fla. and another without data.
Dasyatis pastinaca Linnams.
Ten from Italy and one from Beirut Syria.
Dasyatis ujo Rafinesque.
Trygon brucco Bonaparte Icon Faun.
Ital. Peso.
Ill pt.
2 VI 1S3J.
descr. PI.
Italy.
Cotypes of T. brucco two examples.
PTEROPLATYTRYGON subgen.
nov.
Type Trygon violaceum Bonaparte.
Disk width much greater than length front margin broadly convex.
No upper tail fold after caudal spines.
From Hemitrygon Miiller and Henle this differs in the broad disk obtuse in front and suggesting Pteroplatea.
The small snout tip is within a slight emargination of the front edge of the disk.
Ihepov fin karu broad rfuyu y Trygon.
Dasyatis violaceus Bonaparte.
Trygon violaceum Bon. Icon.
Faun.
Ital. Pesc.
Ill pt.
2 I 1832 descr. PI.
Italy.
Cotypes of T. violaceum Bon. two examples.
Pteroplatea altavela Linnaeus.
One from Italy.
Pteroplatea marmorata Cooper.
One from San Diego Cal.
MYLIOBATIDJE.
Myliobatis bovina G. St. Hilaire.
One from Italy.
Myliobatis aquila Linnaeus.
M. noctula Bon. Icon.
Faun.
Ital. Peso.
Ill pt.
2 II 1S33 descr. PI.
Italy.
Cotype of M. noctula three examples.
Myliobatis freminvillii Le Sueur.
Four from Newport R. I. and Sea Isle City X. J.
One has two caudal spines.
Myliobatis californicus Gill.
Young from San Diego Cal.
Aetobatus narinari Euphrasen.
One without data.
Rhinoptera bonasus Mitchill.
Beaufort N. C and Ocean City N. J. two examples.
MOBULIDiE.
Manta birostris Walbaum.
Eye of large example from Stone Harbor N. J.
476 May
