SOME ARACHNIDA FROM NORTH CAROLINA.
BY NATHAN BANKS.
The material upon which this article is based was collected by Prof. J. H. Emerton Mr. William Beiitenmiiller and the writer mostly in the mountainous western part of the State.
Prof. Emerton during a collecting trip in the South in 1903 stopped at a number of localities in North Carolina.
His itinerary was about as follows Durham 8 and 9 July Chapel Hill 10 July Salisbury 12 July Moiganton 12 July Pineola 14 July Road to Roan Mt. 15 July Roan Mt.
Summit 15 to IS July Lmville 19 July Blowing Rock 19 July Paint Rock 20 July Asheville 23 July Balsam 24 July and Black Mt. Aug. 1 to 3.
Mr. Beiitenmiiller collected for several seasons in the valley of the Black Mountains for the American Museum of Natural History.
The spiders were sent to me for identification.
The writer spent the last two weeks of May 1910 in the same valley visited by Mr. Beiitenmiiller.
This valley is on the north fork of the Swannanoa River about five miles from Black Mountain Station.
The altitude is about 2.500 or 2600 feet and most of the collecting was done below 3000 feet.
Some specimens were taken on the summit of Mt.
Graybeard a neighboring peak 5548 feet high.
The spider fauna of these western mountains is similar in many respects to that found in New York and New England.
Some few species such as Hypochilus and Nemastoma indicate the remnants of a fauna once connected with that of the Northwestern United States and China or Mongolia.
Why these few forms so long resident in these mountain valleys have failed to spread will doubtless longbe a puzzling question.
There is apparently nothing in their habits to justify such a restricted habitat.
HYPOCHILIDBJ.
Hypochilus thorelli Marx.
Paint Rock Balsam Swannanoa Valley up Sugar Fork hanging under rocks near stream.
SCYTODIDJE.
Scytodes thoracica Latr.
Durham.
PHOLCIDJ.
Pholcus phalangoides Fuessl.
Chapel Hill Salisbury.
DYSDERID.
Ariadne bicolor Htz.
Paint Rock.
DRASSIDJE.
Sergiolus variegatus Htz.
Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller.
Sergiolus cyaneoventris Simon.
From Southern Pines Manee.
Zelotes atra Htz.
Roan Mt.
Summit Swannanoa Valley.
Zelotes depressa Emer.
PI.
XXXIV fig.
1.
Swannanoa Valley.
Zelotes frigida Banks.
Swannanoa Valley.
Callilepis femoralis n. sp.
PI.
XXXV fig.
11.
Cephalothorax pale redbrown margin darker mandibles redbrown  sternum and coxae pale yellowishbrown  abdomen deep black  legs pale but femora and tibiae I and II black and densely blackhaired.
Eyes about as in C. imbecilla the rows very short and the S. E. perhaps a little larger than in C. imbecilla sternum a little longer than broad abdomen truncate at base depressed legs long and slender the metatarsi and tarsi longer than usual in the genus tibia I and II with three pairs of spines below the last apical two pairs below these metatarsi tarsus I only a little shorter than metatarsus I.
Length 10 mm.
From Mt.
Graybeard N.
Car. 23 May 1910.
Differs from C. imbecilla in longer legs and darker femora and tibiae I and II.
Callilepis imbecilla Keys.
Balsam Swannanoa Valley among dead leaves.
Drassus robustus Emer.
Swannanoa Valley among leaves.
CLUBIONIDJ.
Clubiona abbotti Koch.
Balsam Mt.
Graybeard Swannanoa Valley in dead leaves of Rhododendron.
29 Clubiona crassipalpis Keys.
Swannanoa Valley in curled Rhododendron leaves.
Clubiona pallens Htz.
Swannanoa Valley one female.
Clubiona canadensis Emer.
Linville.
Chiraoanthium inclusum Htz.
Chapel Hill.
Trachelas tranquilla Htz.
 Swannanoa Valley one female.
Castianeira pinnata Emer.
Blowing Rock one female.
Phrurolithus alarius Htz.
Swannanoa Valley common under stones this is P. palustris Bks.
Phrurolithus sp.
One female from Balsam this is the form that Emerton figured as female of P. alarius he will describe it as new.
Phrurolithus formica Banks.
Swannanoa Valley under stones I have seen this species from Missouri.
Gayenna pectorosa Koch.
Mt.
Graybeard Swannanoa Valley in dead leaves.
Gayenna saltabunda Htz.
Durham.
Micaria agilis Bks.
Chapel Hill road to Roan Mt. Pineola.
Scotinella a. gen. Clubionid maxillae rather short inclined over the lip lip broader than long eyes similar to Liocranum posterior eyerow straight the P. M. E. slightly elliptical dorsal groove present spinnerets short legs slender without spines except two on anterior femora and a double series of long ones beneath tibiae and metatarsi I and II no spines on hind legs claws long not much curved with small teeth near base.
Differs from Scotina Liocrannum Agrceca and Apostenus in absence of spines on the hind legs.
Scotinella pallida n. sp.
PI.
XXXIV fig.
7.
Cephalothorax uniform  T ellowish sternum and legs paler abdomen whitish all clothed with short hairs dense on abdomen sparse on cephalothorax.
Cephalothorax a little longer than broad broad in front groove distinct eyes as figured mandibles moderately stout each with a prominent erect bristle on middle of front abdomen truncate at base rather slender sternum nearly as long as broad broadest behind coxse II somewhat 7sided rounded at tip.
Legs slender with short hairs spines only as follows two long erect ones on middle of femur I a double row of six each under tibia I a double row under metatarsus I 4 on inner side 3 on outer side beneath tibia II 5 pairs and under metatarsus II 3 pairs none of these are apical and all very long.
Last joint of palpus densely clothed with short spinelike bristles.
Length 2.3 mm.
From Black Mt. north fork of the Swannanoa River May under dead leaves in forest.
AGBLENIDJE.
Agelena nsevia Htz.
Morganton Linville Murphy Blowing Rock Pineola Durham Black Mt. Swannanoa Valley not common.
Tegenaria derhami Scop.
Roan Mt.
Summit Salisbury Paint Rock Swannanoa Valley.
Cybseus giganteus Bks.
Balsam Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Coras medicinalis Htz.
Balsam.
Coelotes oalcarata Keys.
Mt.
Graybeard one female male and female from Swannanoa Valley Black Mts. Sept. Beutenmuller.
Cicurina arcuata Keys.
Balsam Swannanoa Valley.
Cicurina brevis Emer.
Roan Mt.
Summit Black Mts. Sept. Beutenmuller.
Hahnia agilis Keys.
Roan Mt. Chapel Hill Swannanoa Valley.
DICTYNID.
Dictyna foliacea Htz.
Pineola Mt.
Graybeard Swannanoa Valley common.
Dictyna sublata Htz.
Morganton Durham.
Bictyna armata n. sp.
PI.
XXXIV fig.
9.
Male cephalothorax reddishbrown rather paler on the head with white hairs abdomen reddishbrown through the middle of dorsum blackish on base and sides the posterior dorsum often broken up by blackish bands sometimes dorsum mostly all dark with a pair of pale spots in front one on each side before middle and a row of pale spots behind in middle legs very pale venter and sternum pale.
Female cephalothorax pale yellowish through the middle sides brownish almost black on lower sides of head  abdomen pale yellowish a faint dark spearmark on base two rows of brown spots behind and the sides with dark marks venter and sternum wholly pale unmarked legs very pale and very slender the abdomen rather short broad and flat.
The male palpus has a very long tibial spur which is faintly bifid at tip and bears two bristles.
Length cJ 1.5 mm.
 9 1.4 mm.
From north fork Swannanoa River Black Mountain N.
Car.
 the webs were found in dead curled Rhododendron leaves lying on the ground.
Amaurobius bennetti Blackw.
Roan Mt.
Summit Blowing Rock.
THERIDIIDJE.
Theridium tepidariorum Koch.
Paint Rock Linville Pineola Chapel Hill Swannanoa Valley.
Theridium rupicola Emer.
Paint Rock Swannanoa Valley quite common under stones.
Theridium punctosparsum Emer.
Balsam Swannanoa Valley beating Rhododendron leaves.
Theridium spirale Emer.
Swannanoa Valley only one taken sweeping.
Theridium differens Emer.
Durham Road to Roan Mt. Balsam Swannanoa Valley.
Theridium atramontanum n. sp.
Pi.
XXXV fig.
12.
Cephalothorax yellowish with a brown median stripe from eyes to tip sometimes broken up near eyes.
Legs yellowish c
 in 9 whitish with the femora I yellowish near tip.
Abdomen grayishwhite reticulate above with a basal median brown mark one on each lower anterior side and two rows of three or four dark spots on the posterior middle of the dorsum sometimes these dark marks outline a pale median stripe venter and sternum pale unmarkedOf the general structure and shape of T. differens the male abdomen rather low the female Epeirashaped.
Legs long and slender.
Length 9  2 to 2.5 mm.
 d 2 to 2.3 mm. femora I 
 2 mm.
 tibia plus patella 2.1 mm.
 metatarsus 1.9 mm.
From north fork Swannanoa River Black Mountain N.
Car.
 usually found under the leaves of the lowland Rhododendrons.
Theridium murarium Emer.
Linville Durham.
Theridium blandum Htz.
Blowing Rock Swannanoa Valley sweeping.
Theridium frondeum Htz.
Road to Roan Mt. Pineola Blowing Rock Swannanoa Valley.
Theridium globosum Htz.
Swannanoa Valley one.
Theridula sphaerula Htz.
Morganton Durham Murphy Blowing Rock Pineola Swannanoa Valley.
Euryopis funebris Htz.
Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Dipoena nigra Emer.
Swannanoa Valley sweeping.
Pedanostethus riparius Keys.
Road to Roan Mt.
Steatoda borealis Htz.
Linville Murphy Pineola.
Enoplognatha marmorata Htz.
Pineola Roan Mt.
Summit Swannanoa Valley under stones.
Teutana triangulosa Walck.
Chapel Hill.
Crustulina guttata Reuss.
Swannanoa Valley among dead fallen leaves.
Asagena americana Emer.
Linville one.
Lathrodectes mactans Fabr.
Morganton Swannanoa Valley Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Epesinus amoenus a. sp.
PI.
XXXV figs.
13 15.
Cephalothorax pale with a broad dark stripe over head and back to near the tip a more or less distinct dark streak near or on the sides eyes surrounded by black.
Dorsum of abdomen grayish or blackish as far back as the humps the sides and hind margin of this dark is edged with white behind paler but darker again toward tip venter blackish on the sides pale in the middle sternum dark with a pale median streak.
Legs pale broadly marked with brown or reddishbrown femur I mostly brown others near tip patellae mostly dark tibiae brown at each end broader at tip and hardly distinct on legs II and III metatarsi narrowly marked with brown at base and tip and the tips of the tarsi usually darker.
The cephalothorax is broad and rounded the head distinctly elevated the eyes as usual but the hind row is scarcely recurved the abdomen is flat truncate at base widened to the humps at the posterior third and then tapers to tip.
Length 3 mm.
From north fork Swannanoa River Black Mountain N.
Car. May obtained by beating Rhododendron bushes.
Spintharus flavidus Htz.
Paint Rock.
Argyrodes trigonum Htz.
Linville Swannanoa Valley.
Argyrodes cancellatus Htz.
Chapel Hill Durham.
Ariamnes fictilium Htz.
Durham one specimen.
Ceratinella fissiceps Cambr.
Roan Mt.
Summit.
Ceratinella minuta Emer.
Swannanoa Valley among dead leaves.
Ceratinella brunnea Emer.
Black Mts. Sept. Beutenmiiller.
Ceratinella laetabilis Cambr.
Black Mt.
Beutenmiiller.
Notionella interpres Cambr.
Morganton Chapel Hill Linville Pineola Swannanoa Valley Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller very common.
Ceratinopis nigripalpis Emer.
Swannanoa Valley among dead leaves.
Ceratinopis alternatus Emer.
From Balsam.
Maso frontata Banks.
PI.
XXXV fig.
17.
Swannanoa Valley under fallen leaves.
Lophocarenum moestum Banks.
PI.
XXXV fig.
10.
Swannanoa Valley sifting fallen leaves.
Diplocephalus rostratus Emer.
Black Mts. Sept. Beutenmiiller one male.
Diplocephalus carolinus n. sp.
PI.
XXXIV fig.
2.
Cephalothorax chestnutbrown legs yellowbrown abdomen black sternum yellowishbrown black on margins.
Head elevated into a median lobe which is truncate in front and bears the P. M. E.. which are over two diameters apart  A. M. E. small scarcely diameter apart farther from the larger A. S. E. the P. S. E. close to A. S. E. Inner edge of front of the mandibles with two small teeth  sternum fully as broad in front as long rather rounded between hind coxae which are separated by more than their width.
Length 1.5 mm.
From Black Mt. N.
Car. Swannanoa Valley sifting fallen leaves.
Gonglydium atramontensis n. sp.
PI.
XXXIV figs.
5 8.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish legs still paler abdomen blackish above and below sternum blackish.
Cephalothorax broad mandibles with three teeth on outer side and a large median one on the inner edge palpi long and slender the basal hook large a sharp straight simple stylet at tip the sternum as broad at base as long triangular sharppointed behind legs long and slender.
Length 1.1 mm.
From north fork of the Swannanoa River Black Mountain N.
Car. May under fallen leaves.
Hypselistes florens Cambr.
Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller.
Grammonata ornata Cambr.
Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller.
Cornicularia indirecta Cambr.
Black Mts. Sept. Beutenmiiller.
Erigone autumnalis Emer.
Swannanoa Valley among leaves.
LINYPHIID.
Linyphia phrygiana Koch.
Roan Mt.
Summit in balsam trees Swannanoa Valley Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller common.
Linyphia maculata Emer.
One from Swannanoa Valley.
Linyphia grandaeva Keys.
Roan Mt.
Summit one female.
Linyphia communis Htz.
Linville Chapel Hill Road to Roan Mt. Balsam Durham Swannanoa Valley very common.
Linyphia marginata Koch.
Paint Rock Linville Murphy Chapel Hill Balsam Pineola Swannanoa Valley common.
Neriene clathrata Sundv.
Swannanoa Valley on ground in the cherry orchard.
Linyphiella coccinea Htz.
Morganton Chapel Hill Durham.
Tapinopa bilineata Banks.
Black Mts. Sept. Beutenmiiller.
Lepthyphantes minuta Blackw.
Black Mt.
Bathyphantes zebra Emer.
Mt.
Graybeard Swannanoa Valley among dead leaves.
Bathyphantes micaria Emer.
Swannanoa Valley in grass.
Bathyphantes galbea Keys.
Swannanoa Valley one specimen.
Bathyphantes unimaculata Banks.
Swannanoa Valley in old meadow.
Bathyphantes nigrina Westr.
Roan Mt.
Summit.
Microneta cornupalpis Emer.
Black Mts. Sept. Beutenmiiller one male.
MIMETIDiE.
Mimetus interfeetor Htz.
Chapel Hill Swannanoa Valley on low branches of trees.
TETRAGNATHIDS.
Pachygnatha tristriata Koch.
Blowing Rock.
Tetragnatha laboriosa Htz.
Morganton Pineola Black Mt. Linville Durham Murphy Blowing Rock Swannanoa Valley common.
Tetragnatha grallator Htz.
Durham Murphy Linville Paint Rock Swannanoa Valley common.
Eugnatha straminea Emer.
Linville Swannanoa Valley.
EPEIRID.
Epeira displicata Htz.
Swannanoa Valley common.
Epeira globosa Keys.
Linville.
Epeira foliata Koch strix Htz..
Road to Roan Mt. Blowing Rock Linville Swannanoa Valley on porch.
Epeira vulgaris Htz.
Salisbury in stables.
Epeira infumata Htz.
Swannanoa Valley young.
Epeira domiciliorum Htz.
Asheville.
Epeira ocellata Clerck.
Roan Mt.
Summit on balsam trees.
Epeira sanguinalis Htz.
Durham one female.
Epeira juniperi Emer.
Black Mt. Paint Rock.
Epeira sericata Clerck.
Black Mt. also Beutenmuller.
Epeira gigas Leach.
Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Epeira nordmanni Thor.
Linville Swannanoa Valley young.
Epeira trifolium Htz.
Linville.
Epeira trivittata Keys.
Morganton Linville Black Mt. Blowing Rock Durham.
Epeira prompta Htz.
Paint Rock Linville Murphy Black Mt. Durham Swannanoa Valley sweeping meadow.
Epeira catawba n. sp.
PI.
XXXIV fig.
4.
Cephalothorax dark brown paler in eyeregion two pale median spots behind eyes two more elongate near middle and the posterior part under the abdomen is pale.
Abdomen whitishgray above mottled and streaked behind and on the sides by greenishwhite  underside pale mottled with brownish and with dark streaks radiating from the spinnerets  sternum pale with faint dark spots on the sides  legs pale marked with .dark brown two or three spots on femora the patella mostly dark and two spots on tibiae less distinctly on the metatarsi.
Abdomen short and broad and high about as broad behind as long the base at middle with a pair of small approximate humps at each outer corner a double hump not elevated the tip seen from below shows tw r o other humps not far from the spinnerets sternum with four humps each side and one behind finger of epigymira quite long transversely wrinkled on basal part.
Length 3 mm.
From Asheville July.
Plectana stellata Htz.
Morganton Durham.
Metepeira labyrinthea Htz.
Morganton Durham Pineola Linville.
Acacesia foliata Htz.
Morganton Paint Rock Black Mt. Durham Chapel Hill.
Zilla montana Koch.
Roan Mt.
Summit on houses and dead trees.
Singa truncata Banks.
Swannanoa Valley in web near ground.
Mangora gibberosa Htz.
Black Mt. Blowing Rock Durham Chapel Hill.
Mangora maculata Keys.
Black Mt. Chapel Hill.
Mangora placida Htz.
Paint Rock Linville Durham Chapel Hill Mt.
Graybeard Swannanoa Valley very common.
Cyclosa conica Pallas.
Linville Durham Black Mt. Blowing Rock Balsam Chapel Hill Pineola Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Theridiosoma radiosa McCook.
Swannanoa Valley not uncommon sweeping low plants Pineola.
Gea heptagon Htz.
Chapel Hill one male.
Argiope trifasciata Forsk.
Durham Road to Roan Mt. Linville.
Argiope aurantia Lucas.
Raleigh.
Leucauge hortorum Htz.
Linville Black Mt. Road to Roan Mt. Durham Chapel Hill Swannanoa Valley Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Acrosoma gracilis Walck.
Asheville Swannanoa Valley Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Acrosoma spinea Htz.
Chapel Hill.
ULOBORIDE.
Uloborus plumipes Lucas.
Morganton Swannanoa Valley Black Mts.
Beutenmuller web on dead branches.
Hyptiotes cavatus Htz.
Paint Rock Durham.
THOMISIDJ.
Misumena vatia Cleick.
Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Misumena oblonga Keys.
Morganton Balsam Pineola Durham Roan Mt.
Summit BlowingRock Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Misumessus asperatus Htz.
Morganton Durham Swannanoa Valley mostly young.
Runoinia aleatoria Htz.
Morganton Pineola Durham Chapel Hill.
Xysticus ferox Htz.
Pineola.
Xysticus triguttatus Keys.
Pineola Blowing Rock.
Xysticus formosus Banks.
Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Xysticus gulosus Keys.
Morganton Chapel Hill Swannanoa Valley.
Coriarachne versicolor Keys.
Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller.
Tmarus caudatus Htz.
Durham Chapel Hill Swannanoa Valley on dead branches.
Philodromus rufus Walck.
Swannanoa Valley Black Mts.
Beutenmuller common.
Philodromus ornatus Banks.
Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Philodromus oarolinus n. sp.
PI.
XXXV figs.
14 16.
Cephalothorax whitish with several short brown streaks in eyeregion one each side on clypeus and three brown spots on each side of the cephalothorax.
Legs yellowish or brownishyellow the femora whitish femora I and II with a broad brown stripe on anterior side beneath behind mostly brown femora III and IV with a dark brown stripe on the anterior side beneath one behind and a less distinct one above rest of legs not plainly striped although tibia
Ill and IV are darker in front below than elsewhere.
Abdomen white with a pattern of rich brown marks as in the figure venter and sternum whitish.
Cephalothorax moderately broad eyes all small and wide apart legs II a little longer than I femora II longer than the cephalothorax tibiae and metatarsi I and II each with two pairs of long spines beneath the second pair at the middle of joint femur I with three bristles on front and two above.
Length 3.5 mm.
From Durham N.
Car. 8 July Emerton.
PISAURID3.
Pisaurina undata Htz.
Morganton Murphy Chapel Hill Swannanoa Valley Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Dolomedes urinator Htz.
Swannanoa Valley near stream.
Dolomedes fontanus Emer.
Lower part of Roan Mt. Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Dolomedes vernalis Emer.
Swannanoa Valley in a bush.
Dolomedes sexpunctatus Htz.
Swannanoa Valley by side of stream.
LYCOSIDiE.
Pardosa retrorsa n. sp.
PI.
XXXIV figs.
3 6.
Cephalothorax nearly black on the sides black on eyeregion and there traversed by a narrow median line of white hair extending down to the front eyerow behind with a broad median reddish stripe much constricted before the dorsal groove some pale spots on the sides and some white on the sides of clypeus.
Mandibles reddishbrown maxillae pale lip black sternum blackish abdomen pale above blackish on anterior sides and with some scattered black marks above most noticeable behind venter pale.
Legs pale the front femora black and other femora and hind tibiae more or less distinctly banded with dark basal joint of palpus black rest pale.
Of general shape of P. lapidicina but legs perhaps a little longer all with long stout spines.
Length 6 mm.
 hind legs 15 mm.
From Linville N.
Car. July Emerton.
Related to P. lapidicina but the palpus quite different and the white line on eyeregion is peculiar.
A female apparently of this species sent by Prof. Emerton was taken at Coles Creek Notch 20 miles north of Bloomsburg Pa. 19 Sept. by Mr. Lutz.
Pardosa minima Keys.
Swannanoa Valley in meadow.
Pardosa canadensis Blackw.
Morganton Balsam Roan Mt. Murphy Linville Pineola Asheville Durham.
Pardosa moesta Bks.
Linville one female.
Pardosa lapidicina Emer.
Roan Mt. Swannanoa Valley in field.
Lycosa carolinensis Walck.
Asheville.
Lycosa helluo Waick.
Asheville Swannanoa Valley.
Lycosa frondicola Emer.
Swannanoa Valley amongdead leaves.
Lycosa aspersa Htz.
Linville Durham BlackjjJVfts. Sept. Beutenmiiller.
Lycosa lenta Htz.
Morganton.
Lycosa pulchra Keys.
Swannanoa Valley one female.
Lycosa avida Walck.
Roan Mt. Blowing Rock Linville Pineola Swannanoa Valley under stones.
Lycosa ocreata Htz  Pineola Balsam Linville Swannanoa Valley very common Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller.
Lycosa gracilis Bks.
Paint Rock Swannanoa Valley common.
Lycosa punctulata Htz.
Chapel Hill.
Lycosa rabida Walck.
Morganton Asheville Swannanoa Va'ey young.
Pirata minuta Emer.
Blowing Rock Pineola.
Pirata montana Emer.
Linville Balsam Asheville Swannanoa Valley very common in a woods near stream.
Geolycosa missouriensis Bk.
Chapel Hill.
Trochesa cinerea Fabr.
.Morganton.
Allocosa funerea Htz.
Swannanoa Valley common.
Allooosa sublata Montg.
Swannanoa Valley a few specimens.
OXYOPID.
Oxyopes salticus Htz.
Morganton Paint Rock Linville Blowing Rock Pineola Durham Roan Mt. Chapel Hill Swannanoa Valley.
Peucetia viridans Htz.
Durham.
ATTIDiB.
Phidippus andax Htz.
Swannanoa Valley young Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller.
Phidippus podagrosus Htz.
Asheville Mt.
Graybeard.
Phidippus insigniarius Koch.
Swannanoa Valley one specimen sweeping.
j Phidippus rufus Htz.
Durham.
Dendryphantes octavus Htz.
Durham Swannanoa Valley very common.
Dendryphantes castaneus Htz.
Balsam Swannanoa Valley among dead leaves.
Philaeus militaris Htz.
Swannanoa Valley not common on trees.
Pellenes borealis Bks.
Mt.
Graybeard one male in grass.
Pellenes peregrinus Peckh.
Swannanoa Valley one female under leaves.
Habrocestum pulex Htz.
Durham Swannanoa Valley common on fallen trees stones etc.
Habrocestum parvulus Banks.
Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller.
Thiodina sylvanus Htz.
Durham.
Phlegra leopardus Htz.
Swannanoa Valley one specimen among dead leaves.
Maevia niger Htz.
Blowing Rock Durham Mt.
Graybeard Swannanoa Valley very common on bushes and herbage.
Wala palmarum Htz.
Blowing Rock Swannanoa Valley on trees.
Wala mitrata Htz.
Swannanoa Valley also on trees.
Marpissa undata DeGeer.
Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller.
Hyctia pikei Peckh.
Durham.
Icius canadensis Blackw.
Blowing Rock.
Fuentes lineata Hentz.
Paint Rock.
Tutelina elegans Htz.
Asheville Durham Swannanoa Valley Black Mts.
Beutenmiiller.
Zygoballus sexpunctatus Htz.
Swannanoa Vallev in old field.
Zygoballus parvus Htz.
Swannanoa Valley Durham Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Neon nelli Peckh.
Swannanoa Valley among fallen leaves.
Sassacus papenhcei Peckh.
Blowing Rock.
Synemosyna formica Htz.
Swannanoa Valley on plants.
PHALANGIDE.
Liobunum grande Say.
Swannanoa Valley.
Liobunum ventricosum Wood.
Swannanoa Valley common.
Liobunum fiavum Banks.
Black Mts.
Beutenmuller.
Liobunum crassipalpis Bks.
Roan Mt.
Oligolophus pictus Wood.
Roan Mt.
Scotolemon brunnea Banks.
Collected by Mr. Beutenmuller at Black Mt.
Caddo agilis Banks.
Swannanoa Valley under leaves.
Nemastoma dasycnemum Crosby.
Swannanoa Valley under leaves.
Explanation of Plates XXXIV XXXV.
Fig.
1.
 Zelotes depressa. 
2.
 Diplocephalus carolinus. 
3.
 Pardosa retrorsa. 
4.
 Epeira catawba. 
5.
 Gonghjdium atramontensis. 
6.
 Pardosa retrorsa. 
7.
 Scotinella pallida. 
8.
 Gonglydium atramontensis. 
9.
 Dictyna armata. 
10.
 Lophocarenum moestum. 
11.
 Callilepis femoralis. 
12.
 Theridium atramontanurn. 
13.
 Epesinus amaenus. 
14.
 Philodromus carolinus. 
15.
 Epesinus amoenus. 
16.
 Philodromus carolinus. 
17.
 Maso frontata.
OBSERVATIONS ON SARCOCYSTIS RILEYI STILES.
BY HOWARD CRAWLEY.
On March 22 1911 there was received at the laboratory of the Zoological Division of the Bureau of Animal Industry Washington D. C a piece of the breast of a Mallard duck in which were Sarcosporidian cysts.
A preparation of the spores of this parasite made for purposes of identification showed it to be Sarcocystis rileyi Stiles.
This form is by no means rare in Mallards Shoveller ducks and domestic ducks.
The preparation however showed certain morphological details in the socalled spores which do not appear to have been described.
In consequence a number of preparations were made the study of which brought to light the facts set forth below which are believed to be of considerable interest and of some theoretical importance.
The duck from which the material was obtained had been shot near the mouth of the Illinois River probably very shortly before March 20.
The specimen was handed to one of the veterinary inspectors of the Bureau of Animal Industry at Chicago and by him forwarded to Washington.
The meat had merely been sprinkled with borax and reached Washington in good condition.
It was quite liberally parasitized.
The cysts were confined mainly to the more superficial portions of the breast of the duck a good many lying immediately beneath the connective tissue covering the muscle.
It is believed that the parasites were still alive or if not had been dead for so short a time that they had not suffered any degeneration.
Examined fresh they presented a picture characteristic of livingorganisms.
They fixed well and gave good stained preparations.
On the other hand attempts to stimulate them to display movement failed.
Mounts were kept for several hours in the incubator and brought at once under the microscope.
Others were kept for a considerable period over the dark field illumination since this procedure heats the preparation.
But in no case were any of the spores 1 seen to move.
1 The propagative bodies found in the cysts of Sarcosporidia are' conventionally designated spores and hence that term is used here.
It is much more likely however that they are the homologues of the sporozoites of Gregarines Coccidia and Hremosporidia.
30 This does not prove that the spores were no longer living as it is by no means easy to get Sarcosporidia spores to display movements.
Some years ago at the Pathological Laboratory of the Medical School of the University of Pennsylvania some experiments were made with the spores of Sarcocystis muris.
It was found that if these were kept in the incubator in some appropriate medium and then examined at a temperature of 32 C very lively movements were displayed.
These movements however were not maintained for any length of time even at this temperature and at ordinary room temperature quickly ceased.
It is evident that the organisms are sensitive to any fall of temperature below the socalled blood heat.
Methods.
Both fresh and prepared material were studied.
The latter was either smears or paraffin sections.
The smears were prepared as follows A cyst was removed from the muscle placed on a slide with a small drop of salt solution and broken into several pieces with needles.
These pieces were then smeared over the slide thus scattering the spores and the preparation fixed before it had dried.
Three methods were used the best results being obtained with fixation in vapor of osmic acid.
For this a widemouthed glassstoppered bottle was used in which was placed a small quantity of a 4 per cent solution of osmic acid.
The wet smear was left in this bottle ten to thirty seconds sometimes more and then transferred at once to absolute alcohol.
The air in such a bottle is saturated not only with osmic acid vapor but with water vapor as well and the smears do not dry.
It may be noted that any osmic acid solution which adheres to the slide after removal from the fixing bottle must be wiped off before immersion in alcohol.
Other smears were fixed by dropping on them while still wet a quantity of fixative.
Two of these were used Hermann's fluid and an alcoholic corrosive acetic mixture made up as follows 95 alcohol 50 parts.
Sat.
sol.
of HgCb in water 50 parts.
Glacial acetic acid 5 parts.
Both of these fluids caused the parasite to swell and to become relatively very much broader than it was in the fresh state.
Nor were the structural details preserved anything like so well as with fixation in osmic acid vapor.
Three stains were used  1.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
2.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
3.
Wright's stain.
The two former were used in the usual way.
With Wright's stain r the conventional procedure was slightly varied.
The smear kept in absolute ethyl alcohol was first washed in absolute methyl alcohol.
It was then stained in the usual way but after being washed in water it was dehydrated with alcohol and transferred to oil.
It could therefore be brought into balsam without ever becoming dry.
The material for paraffin sections was fixed in Hermann's fluid.
Observations.
Fresh Material.
The Cysts.
 As already stated the cysts were mostly aggregated in that portion of the muscle lying beneath the skin.
As is usual with Sarcosporidia their long axes lay in the same direction as the long axes of the muscle fibres.
Stretching of the muscle caused the cysts to lengthen and become narrower they being in all cases very soft and flexible.
They were very easily teased out from the surroundinghost tissue and could be obtained free of all such tissue and wholly intact without the least difficulty.
Both in situ and when free on the slide the form was that of a cylinder with rounded ends.
That is the diameter was sensibly uniform throughout although when the muscle surrounding a cyst was stretched the cyst became somewhat narrower at the ends.
The length varied from 2.756.5 mm.
 the diameter from .61.0 mm.
There was however no constant relation between length and thickness and indeed the shorter cysts were frequently the thicker.
Four selected at random and measured while in position gave the following  6.0 by .60 mm.
5.5 by .75 mm.
4.0 by 1.00 mm.
6.5 by .60 mm.
It is probable that the ratio of length and breadth depends a good deal on the pressure exerted on the cyst by the surrounding tissue.
Obviously also in the living bird the parasites are subjected to very violent stresses and strains.
The Spores.
 Preparations made by teasing the cysts in salt solution were examined under the microscope.
The spores varied a good deal in size and shape.
Some were short broad ovals others had somewhat the outline of a fish.
The long narrow spores Plate XXXVI figs.
13 1012 which were in the great majority sometimes tapered regularly from the broad to the narrow end.
In others however the contours were not smooth there being little irregularities and swellings along the periphery of the body.
The short broad individuals as will be shown later were probably degenerate.
A vacuole near the centre could generally be seen.
At times also a second vacuole could be made out very close to the broad end.
In a number there could be seen a dark refractive body rounded or rod shaped.
It was sometimes near the centre in other cases nearer the broad end.
A few of the long forms were slightly curved but as a rule the longitudinal axis was sensibly a straight line.
In a few the cytoplasm contained granules.
Measurements of several individuals taken at random gave Long.
Short.
13.8 x 2.6 microns.
8.3 x 4.1 microns.
13.8 x 3.1 8.3 x 4.1 14.5x2.1 8.3x3.1 14.5x2.6 9.4x2.6 15.0 x 2.6 9.4 x 2.6 14.5 x 3.1 Hence the length varies from S.315j the breadth from 2.64.1.
Excluding however the short forms believed to be degenerate it is found that the spores are about 1415 long by 23 broad.
Fixed Material.
Cysts.
 In cross section the cysts show a differentiation into what Stiles has termed central core and peripheral layer or zone.
This differentiation while quite evident when the cross section is viewed with low powers has no morphological significance.
The peripheral zone is that portion of the cyst in which the spores are still alive the central core that portion wherein they have died and degenerated.
This was pointed out by Stiles.
In the case of one of the mounted specimens the cross section was oval measuring 1.05 by .84 millimeters.
The central core was roughly .71 x .57 while the peripheral shell varied in thickness from .105 to .194 mm.
Presumably in the living cyst the central core will occupy the geometrical centre of the cyst.
Hence in this particular case there had been distortion which was also indicated by the fact that where the shell was thin it was quite dense and where thick very loose and open.
The distortion was probably due to exigencies of fixation but as already indicated the cysts must be subjected to great distortion during the flight of the bird.
There was the meshwork characteristic of sarcosporidian cysts the meshes being coarser at the periphery and finer in the centre.
In the former position they measured from 1020 p. across in the latter they were as small as 12.
In the material on which this study is based the cysts being mature lie between the muscle fibres and not within them.
Stiles studying the parasites of five ducks found intermuscular cysts alone in four but in the fifth specimen both intermuscular and intramuscular stages were seen.
He states that in the latter the cysts were thinner and showed no nonstaining central core.
Although Stiles suggested that they were only developmental phases of the same form he followed Blanchard's classification calling one Balbiania rileyi and placing the other in the genus Sarcocystis.
It is now known that the distinction between interand intramuscular positions is only a question of development.
The young stages lie within the muscle fibre but as they grow they become too large to be contained within it.
According to Minchin the originally parasitized fibre is ruptured and the cyst escapes.
It seems more probable however that the fibre is merely almost wholly destroyed its remnants remaining around the parasite as an adventitious cyst.
However this may be in the present case the parasites were inclosed within a tightly stretched membrane showing a considerable number of long narrow nuclei.
This was derived from the host.
The actual cyst membrane is very thin homogeneous and part and parcel of the net work.
The compartments as we have seen grow progressively smaller from without inwards.
Within them are the spores.
These in the peripheral compartments are seen to be elongated elements radially arranged.
That is as seen in the cross section of the cyst the spores are in more or less definite files directed along the radii of this cross section.
In the central portion of the central core the meshes of the net are filled with debris which stains only with the plasma stain.
Further out however it is frequently possible to see that this debris is more or less well divided up into little aggregates doubtless each such aggregate standing for a spore which has died and disintegrated.
In such situations chromatin masses are also frequent following the wellknown rule that chromatin does not break clown so quickly as cytoplasm.
In general the line of demarcation between the normal and degenerate spores was abrupt.
The same compartment might be filled partly with normal spores and partly with debris.
The degenerating spores differ from the normal spores in beingshorter and broader even at times round.
As the spore changes in shape the cytoplasm becomes very loose and to a large extent loses its ability to stain the spores frequently taking on the form of a chromatin mass lying in an empty shell.
It is on account of these observations on the sectioned cyst that the short broad spores found in the fresh preparations are believed to be degenerate.
The relative extent of central core and peripheral layer in the make up of the cyst is merely a question of its age.
Thus Stiles found the small intramuscular cysts to be without a central core.
Further in his description of the intermuscular form Stiles gives .48 mm.
for the thickness and in his figures the central core is relatively very much smaller than it is in my material where the diameter is as much as 1 millimeter.
It is merely a matter of evolution.
The cysts herein described are older than those studied by Stiles and spore degeneration has proceeded much further.
Smears.
 The description which follows is based wholly on material fixed in osmic acid vapor and absolute alcohol the other fixations giving obviously bad results.
The three different stains mentioned above were all used and all were good.
They gave however quite different appearances which will be noted as the description proceeds.
Yet although the appearances were quite different it was perfectly easy to correlate them.
No one of the three stains showed any structural details not shown by the other two.
The distinction between them had to do primarily with the chemical composition of the different parts of the spore.
As was to be expected the sharpest pictures were obtained with iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
This method was best for the detection of the presence and form of the figured elements.
But iron hsematoxylin does not distinguish between different grades of chromatin staining that containing much nucleic acid the same as that which contains little.
Differences of this sort were however brought out by thionin and Wright's stain.
The observations were made with a 2 mm.
apochromatic oil immersion lens with a No.
12 or No.
18 eyepiece.
These give respectively 1500 and 2250 diameters.
The light was obtained from an incandescent gas lamp and no trouble was experienced in getting excellent definition.
The spore in the fixed smears shows distinctly a differentiation into a broad and a narrow end.
As in the fresh material the broad end is rounded the narrow end tapering and sometimes almost pointed.
The cytoplasm is either homogeneous staining solidly or there can be made out a poorly defined spongioplasm.
This latter is mostly confined to the broad end of the spore where there can often be seen minute vacuoles.
In this part also rather coarse granules are frequent which take the chromatin stain.
It was not possible however to say whether these belong to the cytoplasm or to the nuclear apparatus of the spore.
They were usually in association with the nucleuslike body in the centre of the parasite and may belong to the class of the socalled metachromatic granules which have been described as present in sarcosporidian spores.
In the narrow end of the spore the cytoplasm nearly always stained homogeneously and in many cases was so solid near the extremity as to suggest a differentiation such as occurs in the anterior end of Telosporidian sporozoites.
In these the cytoplasm is greatly stiffened and forms a sort of beak which enables the parasites to bore into the cells of the host.
This is the only indication obtainable as to which is the anterior end of these spores of Sarcocystis rileyi.
The cytoplasm takes the usual stain being red in acid fuchsin and blue in Wright's stain.
A distinct periplast is present which stains the same as the rest of the cytoplasm.
It could easily be seen in all of the smears and was well demonstrated with those fixed in Hermann's fluid where as a consequence of the violent invasion of the cell by the fluid it was frequently torn loose from the entoplasm.
Measurements show that there is quite a little shrinkage during fixation.
The fresh spores measured 1415 microns long by 23 broad.
Those free in the smears range from 913.4 long by 1.72.3 broad.
In a number of cases however there were present in the smears portions of the cysts showing the spores still lying within the compartments.
Measurements of such spores showed them to be 11.413.0 long by 1.62.3 microns wide and gave a mean of 12.2 by 2 microns.
In these fixation is probably a trifle slower and hence there is not so much shrinkage.
Internally counting from the broad to the narrow end the spores show 1 A vacuole.
2 A chromatin body.
3 A vacuole.
4 A chromatin body.
These four elements are normal constituents of all of the spores although it is often difficult to see them all in any given spore.
The chromatin bodies are probably nuclei but this point will be considered later.
The vacuoles are not to be confounded with the small vacuoles frequently present here as in all other protozoa but are clearly morphological entities.
For convenience the vacuoles will be referred to as vacuole No.
1 and vacuole No.
2 the chromatin bodies as chromatin body No.
1 and chromatin body No.
2 the count being made from the broad to the narrow end of the spore.
Vacuole No.
1.
 This when distinct appeared as a very narrow ring inclosing a clear space.
In other cases it was not nearly so sharply differentiated appearing only as a vague poorly defined region while very often it could not be seen at all.
The space within the ring was sometimes colorless but more often faintlv stained and at times took 7 7 7 much the same stain as the surrounding cytoplasm.
Occasionally it contained a faintly staining granule or irregularly shaped mass staining a trifle more deeply than the ground substance.
In spores still in situ within the compartments of the cyst the vacuole was often very conspicuous presenting the aspect of a hole in the cytoplasm.
The vacuole was usually nearly or quite round.
It was sometimes at the extreme end of the spore  in other cases some distance from the end.
It varied a good deal in size at times being large enough to fill the entire width of the cell again quite small.
The appearance is shown in figs.
13 10 12.
The different stains used made little or no difference in the appearance of this element.
It is possible that this is the socalled striated body said to be present in sarcosporidian spores and interpreted as the homologue of the polar capsule of the spores of Myxosporidia.
Chromatin Body No.
1.
 The appearance of this element is shown in figs.
13 5 6 8 and 1012.
Viewed under a magnification of some 700800 it appeared as a solid deeply stained spherical oval or roughly demilunar body frequently broken into two equal or unequal parts.
Plate NNNVI.
figs.
13 5c Sd e 10 11.
Under higher powers however and with an intense light it was frequently possible to make out that it was more or less lobulated and apparently composed of several masses closely compacted together fig.
5a b h.
Much more rarely it consisted of an aggregate of large granules rather than lobes figs.
5d f 6b.
Sometimes the appearances suggested division into two figs.
13 Sd e.
Generally speaking this body took a dense chromatin stain but frequently it did not stain homogeneously one part taking the chromatin the other the plasma stain.
Thus the case shown by fig.
13 shows two heavily stained demilunes with between them some plasmalike substance.
Figs.
6c and 8a b c show elements which are solid but which stain partly like chromatin and partly like plasma.
It is by no means unlikely that in cases where the element appears double fig.
8c e the conditions really are as in fig.
86 the plasmic portion having failed to stain.
Further in the case of such a body as is shown in figs.
6c 8a b c an alteration in the chemical composition of the central portion or overstating would give elements such as are shown in figs.
1 and 2.
The data just given suggest that this element is a nucleus of the massive or compact type such as the macronuclei of the ciliate Infusoria.
It has ordinarily the aspect of a solid mass but is composed rather of several closely compacted masses.
Under certain conditions a larger or smaller portion of it changes in chemical composition and stains like albumin.
In smears fixed with Hermann's fluid this body frequently lay in a vacuole but it is believed that such an appearance is the result of a too violent fixation.
In smears stained with ironhsematoxylin the color is sensibly black.
In thionin it is deep blue while in Wright's stain it is a nearly black garnet precisely like the kinetonuclei of trypanosomes.
Vacuole No.
2.
 In general this is more distinct than vacuole No.
1 .
Usually it showed as a distinct ring which was frequently irregularly thickened.
At times this vacuole has the appearance of a hole in the cytoplasm and this was always the case when the spores were in situ either in sections or in cyst compartments in the smears.
But in many cases it is inconspicuous see figs.
13.
Here it is seen to be irregularly shaped and quite small.
More probably this is an accident of fixation.
This vacuole in the spore lies between two chromatin bodies and hence can easily be pressed upon during fixation.
In the spores in the cysts it is always very conspicuous and it was also quite evident in the fresh spores.
Chromatin Body No.
2.
 This apparently consists of a nuclear membrane nuclear sap and chromatin which is typically in the form of a rounded karyosome.
The appearances however vary to a very great extent.
The chromatin is very often in the form of a rod figs.
46 d 7e  g.
It may also consist of two or more separate bodies figs.
4c lb c g h.
At times the chromatin mass is irregular in shape and appears to send out strands which unite with the membrane fig.
4e.
In a large number of cases the membrane cannot be demonstrated at all the chromatic mass apparently lying free in the cytoplasm figs.
4c lb d e f g.
In iron hematoxylin the karyosome or karyosomes take a deep chromatin stain and as a rule stand out sharply.
With thionin or Wright's stain the chromatin reaction is given but the stain is pale.
This element obviously comes within the category of vesicular nuclei.
Summarizing the above observations it is seen that the spores of Sarcocystis rileyi show two chromatic elements and two vacuoles.
The latter although rather curious possessions offer no difficulties of interpretation.
The young stages of certain haemogregarines for examples Lankesterella and Karyolysus typically show two vacuoles although it is not known what their function may be.
It is not so easy however to explain the significance of these two chromatic elements.
The one the chromatin body No.
1 is typically a rounded solid element belonging to the massive type of nucleus.
It takes an intense chromatin stain and is clearly an element high in nucleic acid.
The other chromatin body No.
2 consists of a nuclear membrane inclosing a clear space within which is one or more karyosomes.
These stain like chromatin.
This vesicular type of nucleus is widespread in protozoa.
With iron hematoxylin there is no choice between the staining reactions of these two elements.
Sometimes the one is more deeply stained sometimes the other but in general both are black and the spores are seen at a glance to be binucleate.
On the other hand with Wright's stain chromatin body No.
1 is larger and more conspicuous than it is with iron hematoxylin while chromatin body No.
2 may at first glance be overlooked.
The appearance here is of a uninucleated element.
There is here very nicely illustrated the advantage of the use of more than one staining method and the contention of the English School of protozoologists that ironheematoxylin should be used in the study of trypanosomes receives emphatic support.
It is impossible to establish a correlation between the spores of Sarcocystis rileyi and those of other Sarcosporidia.
Concerning the latter the most noteworthy feature of published figures is a lack of clearcut details.
In one of the most elaborate studies that of Erdmann the figured spores show vague differentiations but to the present writer no exact correlation can be established.
The granules figured by Erdmann may be the same as those sometimes seen in Sarcocystis rileyi or they may stand for the ordinary sarcosporidian nucleus.
There is a general consensus of opinion that sarcosporidian spores show a vesicular nucleus and this probably corresponds with the vesicular nucleus of S. rileyi.
As already suggested vacuole No.
1 may correspond to the supposed homologue of the polar capsule of myxosporidian spores.
But neither chromatin body No.
1 nor vacuole No.
2 appears to be represented in any sarcosporidian spores other than S. rileyi which have hitherto been described.
Conclusions.
1 The spores of Sarcocystis rileyi are 1415u long and 23 wide.
2 One end is broad and rounded the other narrow and tapering.
3 The cytoplasm is spongy in the central portion nearly or quite homogeneous in the narrow end.
4 Within counting from the broad end the spore shows a vacuole a chromatin body a vacuole a chromatin body.
5 Vacuole No.
1 lies in or near the broad end.
It is not usually very conspicuous.
6 Chromatin body No 1 is next in order to vacuole No.
1.
It is apparently a nucleus of the massive or compact type and stains like the kinetonuclei of trypanosomes.
7 Vacuole No.
2 lies roughly in the middle of the spore.
It is usually more conspicuous than vacuole No.
1.
8 Chromatin body No.
2 is usually nearer the narrow end than the broad end.
It is apparently a nucleus of the vesicular type the chromatin of which is typically aggregated into a single large karyosome.
9 The spores of Sarcocystis rileyi being apparently binucleate are very different from any other sarcosporidian spores hitherto described.
Bibliography.
Erdmann Rh. 1910 Beitrage zur Morphologie und Entwickelungsgeschichte des Hammelsarkosporids in der Maus.
Centralblatt filr Bakteriologie etc. 1.
Abth. Orig.
Bd.
53 Heft 5 pp.
510516 Taf.
1.
Kern und metachromatische Korper bei Sarkosporidien.
Arch fiir Protistenkun.de Bd.
20 Heft 3 pp.
239250 Taf.
15.
Minchin E. A. 1903 Protozoa.
The Sporozoa in a Treatise on Zoology edited by E. Ray Lankester.
Stiles Charles Wardell 1893 On the Presence of Sarcosporidia in Birds.
Notes on Parasites 18.
Bulletin 3 Bureau of Animal Industry United States Department of Agriculture.
Explanation of Plate XXXYI.
Figs.
13 1012 are made from camera outlines drawn on the table with a 2 mm.
objective and No.
18 eyepiece.
The balance are freehand sketches of the two chromatin bodies.
The published figures are copies made by Mr. Haines artist of the Bureau of Animal Industry from pencil drawings made by the author.
Figs.
13 612 are from smears stained with hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Figs.
4 and 13 from smears stained with Wright's stain.
Fig.
1.
 Spore.
All the elements large except vacuole No.
2.
All further from the broad end of the spore than is usual.
Fig.
2.
 Spore.
Vacuole No.
1 small other elements large.
This spore is typical for the positions occupied by the vacuoles and chromatin bodies.
Fig.
3.
 Spore.
Vacuole No.
1 small vacuole No.
2 almost obliterated.
Karyosome of chromatin body No.
2 sending out strands toward the nuclear membrane.
Fig.
4.
 Chromatin body No.
2. a is taken to be the typical appearance but b and d are very frequent e is not so often seen.
Fig.
5.
 Chromatin body No.
2. a b c g and  are frequent appearances d e and  are not so often seen.
Fig.
6.
 Chromatin body No.
2.
Compare a with h of fig.
5.
In c the element stains partly like chromatin and partly like plasma.
Fig.
7.
 Chromatin body No.
2. a c and h show the entire nucleus in b d e f and g only the karyosomes can be seen.
This condition occurs frequently.
Fig.
8.
 Chromatin body No.
2.
In a b and c the bodies stain partly like chromatin and partly like plasma.
In d and e it is apparently double.
Fig.
9.
 Chromatin body No.
2.
Appearances frequently presented by the karyosome.
Fig.
10.
 Spore.
Vacuole No.
1 contains a granule.
Chromatin body No.
2 has here the typical appearance of a vesicular nucleus with one karyosome.
Fig.
11.
 Spore.
The vacuoles are obliterated.
Fig.
12.
 Spore.
Chromatin body No.
2 shows three karyosomes.
Fig.
13.
 Chromatin body No.
1.
The element is here cleft into equal parts.
NOTES ON THE ANATOMY AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE GENERA OMPHALINA AND MESOMPHIX.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
In the course of studies on the shells of large Zonitidce of the Southern States Mr. George H. Clapp reached the conclusion that the species referred to Omphalina are divisible into two genericgroups one having 'the embryonic whorls of the shell smooth the other having these whorls radially costulate or sharply striate.
His results being communicated to me an anatomical study of all the species was undertaken.
I found that two genera are clearly indicated by the soft anatomy and that these coincide with the groups based upon the sculpture of the embryonic shells except that the species inornata Say and andrewsce Pils.
have smooth embryos yet their soft anatomy is like the group with striate embryos.
Hoping to find time for a revision of the species with full illustration of the shells I laid aside the notes made in 19056 but as opportunity for the preparation of adequate illustrations of the shells has not appeared the anatomical and taxonomic data are now published.
W. G. Binney in the Terrestrial Mollusks vol.
V has figured the genitalia of inornata PI.
XI fig.
C friabilis fig.
D. and laevigata fig.
E.
In the latter figure the penis is lettered d.s. and its flagelliform gland and retractor or both marked r. Omphalina friabilis is figured with a vaginal gland marked p.p.
The fact is that Binney took the distal end of the penis for an appendage or dartsack and did not recognize the true nature of the epiphallus.
The resulting inaccuracy of the figures and descriptions deprives them of value.
He has however done much useful work on the dentition the shellcharacters and in the elucidation of the older species the synonymy of which had become intricate.
Genus OMPHALINA Rafinesque.
It is proposed to restrict this genus to species having the embryonic whorls of the shell smooth and the penial retractor muscle terminal on the penis which does not extend beyond it in a flagelliform blind sac.
The type is 0. cuprea Rafinesque fuliginosa  Griffith  Binney .
The Mexican species lucubrata Say PL XXXVII fig.
8 genitalia caduca Pfr. zonites Pfr. belong to this genus.
Zonyalina jalapensis and Patulopsis carinata according to Strebel's figures are very closely related and might be retained as subgenera of Omphalina as von Martens has done.
Both Omphalina and Mesomphix have a collarlike gland usually chocolatecolored around the base of the vagina.
A similar gland has been noticed in Zonites algirus Zonitoides nitida and excavata Rhysota brookei etc.
Its apparent absence in some dissections may be due to imperfect preparation or to imperfect development or pigmentation.
The external features of the soft parts are similar in the two genera.
In both the orifice of the genitalia is posterior under the pneumostome as shown in fig.
2 C. The dentition is not greatly varied in the Omphalinas of the United States and probably the radulse of 0. pilsbryi 0. cuprea and 0. friabilis could not always be distinguished.
0. kopnodes has more lateral teeth than the other species.
The number of teeth in radulse counted is as follows Central.
Lateral.
Marginal.
0. kopnodes 1 7 66 Huntsville Ala. 1 9 57 Binney.
0. pilsbryi 1 5 or 6 49 or 50 Wetumpka Ala. 0. cuprea 1 5 54 Emporium.
Pa.  1 5 45 Pennsylvania. 
1 4 60 Binney.
0. c. ozarkensis 1 6 54 Magazine Mt. Ark.
O. friabilis 1 7 54 Wyandotte I. T. immature.
1 5 65 San Marcos Tex.
1 5 55 Mablevale Ark.
1 6 51 Binney.
a The position of the epiphallus on the penis is a character of importance in distinguishing species but it fails with immature individuals in which the epiphallus is probably always inserted very near the end of the penis.
The swollen or slender shape of penis and epiphallus is variable individually and probably related to functional activity.
The measurements of the organs in specimens figured follow Length of kopnodes.
cuprea.
pilsbryi.
friabilis.
friabilis.
Mablevale.
San Marcos.
Penis 10.5 12 9 5 6 Epiphallus 21 15.5 16 5.5 15 Vagina 7.5 6 4 8.5 Spermatheca and its duct 19 15 11 8 13.5 A Miocene species O. laminarum has been described by Professor Cockerell from the Florissant shale but the fragment obtained leaves the generic reference in doubt.
Omphalina cuprea Rafinesque.
Helix fuliginosa Griffith of Binney and other authors.
The tail is flattened the caudal pore a small slit not reaching the end as figured for 0. friabilis from San Marcos.
The mantle over the lung has some irregular scattered spots and some of the branches of the vena cava are diffusely pigmented in places.
The pulmonary vein and its branches are not pigmented.
The collar usually has a black patch or several spots.
Specimens from many localities examined.
In two examples of 0. c. polita from Cades Cove I found a few spots near the branches of vena cava and on the collar in one the other being without pigment spots.
The genitalia of an individual from York Furnace Pa. have been figured in these Proceedings for 1894 p. 14 PI.
I fig.
5.
In other specimens opened the penis and epiphallus are less swollen but otherwise similar.
The base of the vagina is swollen and white not chocolatecolored as in the Arkansan form.
The retractor muscle of the penis is rather short.
The epiphallus arises near the end of the penis but not quite so near as in 0. kopnodes.
I have examined several radulse.
One from Emporium Cameron County Pa. has 54 5 1 5 54 teeth PI.
XXXVIII fig.
1 the central and laterals with side cutting points.
The decrease of the marginals to the outer edge is very gradual as usual.
Another radula from Pennsylvania has 45 5 1 5 45 teeth.
Binney found 60 4 1 4 60 teeth in one 57 1 57 in another radula.
The number of teeth and of laterals is variable in different colonies but apparently neither reaches the number found in 0. kopnodes.
The ectocones are a little better developed than in 0. friabilis but it is doubtful whether some radulse could be distinguished.
Rafinesque's description is as follows Omphalina differs from Helix by no lips but an umbilic.
0. cuprea suboval four spires smooth brittle diaphanous coppery shining opening very large.
In Kentucky.
While this definition leaves much to be desired it is excellent as far as it goes.
It will apply to no other Kentucky shell to my knowledge.
The adjective coppery is especially good.
Binney years ago recognized cuprea as identical with fuliginosa but he continued to use the later name either being opposed to change or perhaps considering Rafinesque an outlaw undeserving of recognition.
This view seems to have been prevalent with the early American conchologists.
472 July Binney states that he never received this species from west of the Mississippi River south of Iowa.
I never saw it in Iowa nor do I know of any record from Iowa Minnesota or any northern State west of the Mississippi.
Omphalina cuprea ozarkensis P. and F. Omphalina fuliginosa ozarkensis Pilsbry and Ferriss Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1906 p. 562.
Shell similar to that of 0. cuprea.
Soft parts differing by having the branches of the vena cava in the lung intensely blackpigmented showing through the shell in life.
Epiphallus inserted midway on the penis not distally as it is in 0. cuprea.
B Fig.
1.
 0. cuprea ozarkensis.
A pallial region of individual from Magazine Mountain.
B the same as seen in an unopened specimen removed from the shell the pigmented blood vessels showing through the mantle.
Petit Jean Ark.
Petit Jean Mountains south of Magazine Mountain Arkansas.
Cotypes No.
91348 A. N. S. P. collected by Ferriss and Pilsbry April 1 and 2 1903.
Also on the north side of the summit of Magazine Mountain Logan County Arkansas March 28 to April 2 1903 and Sugarloaf Mountain on the Oklahoma boundary.
I can find no differential characters in the shells of this race though the microscopic striation and obscure granulation may be a trifle more distinct than in cuprea but the anatomical characters seem so diverse that a special race is indicated.
In the field it was at once recognized by Mr. Ferriss and myself as unlike any Omphalina we had seen on account of the black lines of the lung showing through the shell.
As usual in this genus it lives on moist wellshaded hillsides buried in the leafcovered humus up to the apex which alone is exposed.
The external characters of foot and body are substantially as in 0. friabilis from San Marcos Texas except that the last half of the last whorl as seen through the shell in life shows a few irregular sharply defined black lines on a pale or in life creamwhite ground.
The pallial tract when opened fig.
1 A shows a short subtriangular brown kidney the ureter projecting well forward from its apex.
The secondary ureter is closed throughout.
The pulmonary vein branches somewhat freely near its anterior end and there are two slender weak branches of the pericardial vein.
All of these veins are colorless like the pale wall of the lung.
Most of the branches of the vena cava are intensely black and show on the outside as black lines.
This marking renders the subspecies easy to recognize in the field or when handling alcoholic specimens.
The genital system PL XXXVII fig.
3 is practically identical with that of 0. friabilis from San Marcos Tex. but differs in the following points the base of the vagina is not swollen the penis is more slender and the muscle controlling the epiphallus is inserted at the distal third of the latter instead of near its end.
The epiphallus is inserted about midway on the penis whereas in 0. cwprea it inserts near the distal end.
The organs of the individual drawn measure Length of penis 7.5 mm. 
epiphallus 14  vagina 6.3    spermatheca and duct 13  Two radulae examined agree essentially with 0. cwprea.
Formula of teeth about 54 6 16 54.
Two shells measure Alt.
15.0 diam.
25 mm. 
13.3  22  The jaw is yellow with truncate ends the median projection either low or strong.
31 474 July Omphalina cuprea polita Pils.
Omphalina fuliginosa polita Pils. Nautilus XII p. 86 Dec 1898.
Ferriss Nautilus XIV p. 56 Pilsbry Proc.
A. X. S.
Phila. 1900 p. 134.
Has not been dissected.
It is characteristic of the mountains along the Tennessee  North Carolina boundary.
Omphalina pilsbryi Clapp.
Omphalina pilsbryi Clapp Nautilus XVIII p. 30 July 1904.
The foot has a wide double margin the upper groove obsolete near the end of the tail as usual fig.
2 C.
The tail is elevated not flat as in cuprea.
The caudal pore is a short median slit surrounded by concentric grooves fig.
2 A.
The mantleedge bears a very large right lobe and smaller left both being conspicuously larger than in other known Oniphalinas.
The lung is irregularly and rather copiously maculate fig.
2 B anterior end from the inside.
The penis and epiphallus are very long and there is a thick chocolatecolored vaginal gland around the base of the vagina.
Other organs as usual in the genus PL XXXVII fig.
6.
Fig.
2.
 Omphalina pilsbryi Clapp.
A end of foot and tail pore.
B anterior end of lung and mantleedge.
C side view of foot contracted in alcohol showing position of genital orifice and double footgroove.
The jaw is pale yellow and has a very strong median projection.
The radula PI.
XXXVIII fig.
7 has 55 1 55 teeth with 5 or 6 laterals.
The basal plates of central and lateral teeth are somewhat shorter than in 0. cuprea and the transition teeth have a more distinct and more acute ectocone.
Otherwise the teeth do not differ materially from those of 0. cuprea.
Omphalina kopnodes W. G.
Binn..
Zonites capnodes W. G. B. Terrestr.
Moll. V p. 9S pi.
2 f. K teeth.
Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci.
I 357 pi.
14 f. C genitalia of specimen from near Knoxville Tenn. Also first supplement to Terr.
Moll. V p. 137.
The foot has the usual double margin.
The tail pore is in form of a median slit with some short converging furrows on each side fig.
3.
The mantle has the same profuse maculation figured for 0. pilsbryi.
The mantlelobes are not quite so large as in 0. pilsbryi but larger than in any other Omphalina.
In genitalia PI.
XXXVII fig.
1 it resembles 0. pilsbryi but the proportions of penis and epiphallus differ and the latter is inserted much nearer to the distal Fig.
3. end of the penis than in 0. pilsbryi only 1.5 mm.
from the end being more nearly terminal than in any other Omphalina.
The epiphallus passes without abrupt contraction into the vas deferens.
The vagina is enveloped in a large chocolate vaginal gland.
The jaw is pale yellow with a strong median projection.
The radula PI.
XXXVIII figs.
3 5 has 66 7 1 7 60 teeth.
There are distinct outer cuttingpoints on the central and lateral teeth the change to the marginal t T pe is very abrupt.
A group of marginals from the middle of the marginal field is figured.
The teeth decrease in size very gradually towards the outer margin of the radula.
The specimens examined and figured were collected at Monte Sano near Huntsville Ala. by Mr. H. H. Smith.
type locality is  Alabama.
Binney found 66 1 66 57 9 1 9 57 teeth in one 46 1 46 teeth in another radula.
I doubt whether the latter radula was from an adult individual.
He describes it as with no side cusps but having cuttingpoints on the lateral and central teeth thus agreeing with the radula I examined in the shape of the teeth but the number of laterals was 9 in his preparation 7 in mine.
The genitalia as figured by Binney agree well with my dissection except in one important particular he figures the epiphallus as arising near the base of the penis whereas I found it to spring from near the distal end.
The lower part of the epiphallus is bound to the penis as shown in my figure and it is probable that Binney did not determine its real point of insertion.
The number of lateral teeth in 0. kopnodes exceeds that of any others of our species examined except immature 0. friabilis from Wyandotte Okla. which has teeth of a quite different shape.
Omphalina friabilis Binney.
The type locality of this species is banks of the Wabash River and in Illinois.
It ranges southwest to San Marcos Tex. and is a common snail in suitable stations in Arkansas and northeastern Oklahoma where Ferriss and I collected in 1903.
1 Specimens have been dissected from Mablevale Ark. Wyandotte Okla. and San Marcos Tex.
As they show some variation notes on all are given.
At Mt.
Carmel 111. the shells are typical.
They lack spiral striae.
The Arkansas shells are more depressed and have spiral striation.
Moreover the apices are sometimes slightly worn.
In Texas the shells are very globose with spiral striae and perfect apices.
Mablevale Ark.
PL XXXVIII fig.
4. The foot has the usual double margination.
Caudal pore as in friabilis from San Marcos Tex.
The mantle over the lung shows a few irregular scattered small black spots and flecks and an oblong black spot marking the position of the refiexed ureter but the veins are not pigmented.
The epiphallus is swollen and not much longer than the penis.
The vagina is longer than usual white to the base which is not swollen.
As the specimen was very hard from preservation in strong alcohol it is possible that a vaginal gland was present and much contracted or possibly torn off in dissection.
PI.
XXXVII fig.
4.
The jaw is yellow with truncate ends and a rather low median projection.
Wyandotte Okla.  Two specimens dissected.
In one the radula is normal for 0. friabilis.
In the other an immature example with a shell 16 mm.
in diameter the radula PL XXXVIII fig.
2 has about 61 1 61 teeth with 7 laterals.
Both cusps and basal plates are decidedly shorter than in any other Omphalina.
The marginal teeth also have remarkably short cusps.
All of the teeth are separated more than usual in this genus.
The number of lateral teeth is greater than in any other of our species except 0. kopnodes which has much longer teeth.
The jaw is pale yellow with a strong median projection.
The epiphallus is almost terminal on the penis a position which I think must be due to immaturity PL XXXVII fig.
5.
The pedal grooves are double as usual caudal pore a simple slit.
There is some sparse blackish streaking on the lung fig.
4.
1 Specimens reported in these Proceedings for 1906 p. 562 as O. fuliginosa from Wyandotte in the Wyandotte Nation Oklahoma are young 0. friabilis.
1911.
477 Fig.
4.
 0. friabilis from Wyandotte removed from the shell showing pigmentation of mantle.
San Marcos Tex.
 The pedal lines are double as usual the deeper ones meeting in a curve over the tail.
No distinct caudal mucus pore is discernible in some alcoholic specimens but the margin is less deeply grooved near the end of the tail than elsewhere.
Other individuals have a simple slit.
There are no specialized dorsal or facial grooves.
The mantle margin has a short right bodylobe but no shelllobes.
The sole is tripartite.
All the veins and arteries of the lung are outlined with black pigment causing it to appear much darker than the lung of Arkansas examples dissected.
The atrium is excessively short only reaching through the integument.
The penis is stout and short with terminal retractor muscle inserted distally in the lung floor.
About in the middle of the penis a long stout epiphallus enters.
It tapers distally into the vas deferens and near the end receives a very slender muscle which is inserted in the connective tissue Fig.
5.
 0. friabilis around the base of the penis.
The vagina g  f is chocolate colored and much swollen with tailpore below.
The spermatheca is very large oblong on a slender duct about as long as the vagina PI.
XXXVII fig.
2.
The organs measure as follows Length of penis about 6.0 mm. 
 epiphallus about 15.0   vagina 8.5    spermatheca and duct 13.5  The jaw is pale yellowishgray with a median ridge and strong projection sides distinctly striate.
The raclula of a San Marcos specimen PI.
XXXVIII fig.
6 has 65 5 15 65 teeth the cusps especially of the centrals being longer and narrower than in any other of our species of Omphalina.
Two radulae examined.
In an individual from Mablevale Ark.
PI.
XXXVIII fig.
4 there are about 55 5 1 5 55 teeth the centrals somewhat less lengthened.
Counted in another place I found 53 5 1 5 53 teeth on the same raclula.
Binney records 57 1 57 teeth with 6 perfect laterals.
The locality of the snail he examined was not stated.
Except in having somewhat longer cusps the radulse I prepared differ very little from 0. cuprea.
Genus MESOMPHIX 'Eaf.'
Beck.
Beck Index Molluscorum p. 7 1837 for M. virginalis B.
undescribed M. fuliginosa Griff. M. ivalkeri Gray M. Icevigata Raf. M. elliptica Mich and M. olivetorum Gm.
Herrmannsen Inclicis Generum Malacozoorum Primordia II p. 40 typus Helix laevigata Raf.
July 17 1S47.
The shell is like Omphalina except that it is more depressed with a much smaller umbilicus and the embryonic whorls are ribbed or striate radially in most species.
External anatomy as in Omphalina.
Genitalia differing from Omphalina by the development of a flagelliform gland terminal on the peiis.
The epiphallus is distinctly differentiated from the vas deferens.
Vaginal gland wanting.
Jaw reddishbrown or black very opaque with a small median projection.
Radula with the basalplate of the central tooth contracted in the middle lateral teeth few to 4.
Marginal teeth as in Omphalina.
Type M. Icevigata.
This genus is well differentiated from Omphalina by the presence of a flagelliform penial gland a very unusual structure in American Znnitidce.
This gland is long and slender in M. subplana PI.
XXXVII fig.
7 p.g.
 shorter and stout in M. Icevigata fig.
10.
The shell often bears a diagnostic feature in its scuptured apex.
The jaw in all the species examined M. Icevigata subplana rugeli andrewsce and inornata is remarkable for its dark or black color.
In Omphalina the jaw is pale yellow so far as observed.
These features are an advance beyond the morphology of Omphalina being as it were superposed upon the Omphalinoid organization.
The radula also is more specialized by the partial or complete elimination of lateral teeth.
In describing the genus Mesomphix Rafinesque mentioned no 1911.
479 species.
Its foundation therefore dates from the memorable Index of Beck who included some species of other groups.
Herrmannsen in 1847 expressly selected laevigata as the type probably because this was known to be a Rafinesquian species.
Gray in the same year names laevigata and olivetorum as examples.
Von Martens and American authors have used the name Mesomphix for heterogeneous assemblages of species but this later usage cannot be upheld against Herrmannsen' s selection of laevigata as type of the group.
The dentition in Mesomphix is varied in the several species.
M. laevigata is quite peculiar in having no lateral teeth the inner ones being transitional to the marginal type and the central tooth is peculiar in the form of the basal plate and the great reduction of its single cusp.
The radula in this species is evidently evolving towards the type of Circinaria.
In the other species the central tooth is well developed and tricuspid with a somewhat hourglassshaped basal plate.
This is least marked in M. rugeli which has teeth much like Omphalina.
The number of teeth is also characteristic as seen in the formulas below in which the transition teeth are counted as marginals.
Cen M. inornata... M. andrewsce.
M. subplana.. M. rugeli M. laevigata.... ltral.
Lateral.
Marginal 2 2125 3 37 2 34 4 3437 1719 Mesomphix may be divided into three subgenera as follows  .
Embryonic whorls of the shell radially striate.
Subgenus MESOMPHIX.
No lateral teeth central tooth with a single small cusp.
Flagelliform gland of the penis very short.
Type and only species M. laevigata Raf. 
Beck.
Subgenus MICROMPHIX new.
Several two to four lateral teeth central tooth well developed tricuspid.
Flagelliform gland of the penis long about half the length of the penis.
Type M. subplana Binn.
Includes also M .
rugeli.
II.
Embryonic whorls smooth or faintly striate spirally.
Subgenus OMPHIX new.
Radula and genitalia as in Micromphix but embryonic whorls of the shell smooth.
Type M. inornata.
Includes also M. andreivsae Pils.
Mesomphix laevigata Beck.
Beck.
Index Moll. p. 7 based upon Ferussac Histoire etc. pi.
82 f. 6.
Helix laevigata Pfr. not of Pennant 1777.
Bland Ann.
Lye.
N. H. of N. Y. VII p. 120 identity of laevigata with inornata Say affirmed.
Omphalina laevigata Raf.
Beck Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1900 p. 134.
Beck gives the locality as North America in South Carolina but he gave no description basing the name solely upon Ferussac's figures of specimens sent by Rafinesque from Kentucky hence the type locality is in the latter State.
The common form of laevigata from Kentucky south to northern Florida Alabama and southwest to Lake Charles Louisiana is rather a capacious shell rarely entirely green usually russet above green beneath.
The striae are very fine close and deeply cut covered with a beautiful sculpture of minute papillae in close spiral lines.
A lafrge specimen from Alabama measures alt.
16 diam.
26.5 mm. umbilicus about 1.8 mm.
wide.
While there are local differences in size color and minute sculpture it seems doubtful whether any definable races exist except in the southern Alleghanies where several forms have been differentiated.
A very small race occurs in Florida.
Mesomphix laevigata monticola n. subsp.
Omphalina laevigata specimens from Great Smoky Mountains Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1900 p. 135.
The shell is more glossy on the upper surface than M. laevigata the striae less deeply cut and less regular covered with a much more minute less distinct microscopic granulation.
Smaller than typical laevigata and more depressed green throughout.
Alt.
11.5 diam.
20.5 mm.
 4f whorls.
Sugar Cove type locality and Cades Cove at the western foot of Thunderhead Mountain and also on Thunderhead nearly to the summit Blount County Tennessee collected by Messrs. Ferriss Walker Clapp Sargent and Pilsbry 1889.
Types No.
71367 A. N. S. P. The same form has also been collected by the late Mrs. George W. Andrews in the same neighborhood and it was also taken on the Little Tennessee River near Tallassee Ford by Mr. Ferriss.
The socalled laevigata from southwestern Pennsylvania is much closer to this race than to typical laevigata and for the present they may be placed here.
The shells differ from those of the southern mountains chiefly by being rather strongly chestnut or reddish1911.
481 brown tinted.
Those seen are from Somerset and Fayette Counties Pennsylvania.
Vf I Fig.
G.  Mcsomphix laevigata monticola.
End of foot and tailpore of two individuals from Cades Cove Tenn.
The penis is fusiform slender at its distal end terminating in a stout fingershaped gland and with a very short and strong retractor muscle.
Epiphallus somewhat longer than the penis.
The lower portion of the oviduct is much convoluted.
Vagina short whitish not swollen basally and no vaginal gland was seen PI.
XXXVII fig.
10.
Length of penis 8.5 mm. 
epiphallus 10.0   vagina 3.0    spermatheca and duct 10.0  The caudal gland is an irregular curved fissure partly surrounding a median areole fig.
6.
Fig.
7.
 Teeth of M. I. monticola Cades Cove Tenn.
The radula of a specimen from Cades Cove has 19 1 19 teeth fig.
7.
The central tooth has a very narrow cusp with a minute cutting point.
There is no trace of side cusps.
The inner side teeth are transition teeth with short oblique conic cusps no ectocones.
They are of the aculeate rather than the quadrate form.
Further out the cusps are strictly aculeate but short and stout.
Binney records 19 1 19 and 17 1 17 teeth in specimens of laevigata he examined.
His figure shows rudimentary side cusps but no cutting points on the central and a welldeveloped ectocone on the first lateral tooth.
The locality of his specimen is not stated.
Mesomphix laevigata perlaevis Pils..
Omphalina laevigata perlcevis Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1900 p. 135.
Ferriss Nautilus XIV p. 56.
a The radial strise on the embryonic 1 whorls are coarser than in kevigatus weak or wanting on the first half whorl.
The typical form from Tallassee Ford Monroe County Tenn. has irregular wrinkles on the last whorl with a spiral sculpture of very faint close smooth lines often nearly or quite obsolete.
The largest shell of the type lot measures alt.
10 diam.
17.5 aperture alt.
9 width 10 mm.
 whorls 4.
A few shells not quite adult from Lawrenceburg Dearborn County Ind.
A. C. Billups do not appear to differ from perlcevis.
6 Three lots from Macon County Ga. and Black Mountains N. C collected by Hemphill and from Burnside Ky. collected by Ferriss differ by having the last whorl closely striate above but under the microscope only very fine smooth spiral lines are seen.
A specimen from Macon County measures alt.
12 diam.
19.5 aperture 9x11 mm. with 5 whorls.
c Another form related to perlcevis is densely striate above but the aperture is wider less rounded.
The upper surface is often russettinted as in M. kevigata but the microscopic spirals are faint fine and smooth not granulose.
The aperture is more oblique than in the preceding race.
Alt.
12 diam.
21 aperture 9.3 x 12.7 mm. whorls 5.
This form is from Cheoah River at the junction of Yellow Creek Graham County N. C. Some shells not quite mature but apparently the same were taken by Rhoads at Sawyer Spring Walden's Ridge Hamilton County Tenn. at an elevation of about 2300 feet.
Forms b and c may eventually be separated as distinct subspecies.
Mesomphix laevigata latior Pils.
Omphalina kevigata latior Pils. Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.
1900 p. 135.
Ferriss Nautilus XIV p. 56.
The sculpture of the embryonic 1 whorls is coarser than in laevigata then 1 finely striate whorls follow after which the striae weaken to low irregular wrinkles.
The last 1 whorls have fine granules in spiral lines as in the Great Smoky Mountain monticola.
The soft anatomy has not been examined.
It has been found at Tallassee Ford of the Little Tennessee River Monroe County Tenn. and at Chambers Creek Church Swain County N. C. Mesomphix 
perfragilis Wetherby.
Zonites perfragilis A. G. Wetherby Notes on American Land Shells Journ.
Cincinnati Soc.
Nat.
Hist. IV p. 326 1881 undescribed.
Same journal for 1894 p. 215.
On principle I oppose the introduction of MS. or provisional names into print because any name not fully defined entails labor and waste of time upon others.
Since this name has been printed it may be well to give what information I can.
I quote from a letter received from Wetherby years ago date not preserved.
I tell you about Zonites perfragilis W. MS. so that in case you should go into the limestone region of middle Tennessee you may be on the lookout for it.
It is a species built much on the plan of Z. Icevigatus and varies in size as that does.
All the specimens yet found have a shell thinner than that of Vitrina limpida.
I first found it in a sinkhole in a cedar glade on the Murphreesboro Pike about two miles out of Nashville in August 1875.
Not doubting my ability to clean them with care I plunged them into hot water but the experiment was fatal.
I lost them all.
I next put some in alcohol but before we got back to Cincinnati they were reduced to nothing as to the shells.
It is not uncommon I think in the limestone sinkholes especially in the damper parts.
In 1894 Wetherby gave the following description   As thin and pellucid as Vitrina limpida the shells being extremely fragile and delicate.
They were much flattened and the umbilical opening was much larger than typical Icevigatus.
Rutherford County Tenn.
This description was from memory the specimens having been lost as noted above.
In another letter Wetherby reiterates the opinion that perfragilis is a very distinct species.
It should be easy to find the original locality and to recognize the species from the details given above.
They could probably be cleaned successfully if drowned before boiling.
Otherwise the forcible retraction of the animal in shells so fragile breaks them up.
Mesomphix subplana Binn..
The caudal pore resembles that of Omphalina pilsbryi.
The penis has a long slender flagelliform terminal gland 5 mm.
in length.
Its retractor muscle is long and slender PI.
XXXVII fig.
7.
Epiphallus 12 mm.
long.
The radula examined PI.
XXXIX fig.
1 has 36 1 36 teeth.
The basalplates are very long the cusps arising far backward about the middle of the plates about as in M .
andrewsce and M .
inornatus.
Two or three teeth on each side may be reckoned laterals having welldeve'oped side cusps and cutting points the next is transitional the rest marginals.
The marginal teeth are closely crowded with long slender cusps longer than in other species of Mesomphix and more like those of some Omphalinas.
Binney found 37 1 37 teeth in a Roan Mountain specimen agreeing in form with my figure except that the basalplates are a little shorter.
The large number closely crowded and long cusps of the marginal teeth are characteristic of this species.
Mesomphix rugeli W. G.
Binn..
Zonites rugeli W. G. B. Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci. I p. 357 pi.
15 f. H shell I teeth pi.
14 f. D genitalia.
Type locality Roan Mountain Mitchell County N. C. The individual I dissected was collected there.
The mantle is unpigmented or of a diffuse smoky color darker near the collar.
The male organs PI.
XXXVII fig.
9 do not differ materially from M. subplana.
Binney's figure shows the epiphallus arising too near the base of the penis but its real insertion is not far from the middle.
Length of penis 8 epiphallus 9.5 mm.
The radula examined PI.
XXXIX figs.
2 3 has 41 1 41 teeth of which about 4 or possibly 5 on each side are laterals with welldeveloped cusps and cutting points.
The central tooth has a wider shorter basalplate than in allied species more like that of Omphalina.
The intermediate marginal teeth are rather stout and ungraceful fig.
3 left side.
The outer ones decrease rapidly to the outer edge of the radula fig.
2.
The radula figured has an abnormal row of teeth on one side the second lateral having a double ectocone.
The teeth are all shorter than in M. subplana.
Binney records 38 1 38 teeth with 4 or 5 laterals the form of the individual teeth being as figured by me.
This species is quite distinct by the short form of the central teeth and the comparatively large number of lateral and marginal teeth.
Mesomphix rugeli oxycoccus Vanatta.
Omphalina rugeli oxycoccus Vanatta Nautilus XVI p. 106 January 1903.
Cranberry and Banners Elk N. C. Mesomphix inornata Say.
Cf.
Bland Ann.
Lye.
N. H. of N. Y.  VII 127.
Genitalia as in M. rugeli.
Caudal pore as in 0. cuprea.
The radula PL XXXIX fig.
5 has 24 1 24 teeth.
The tricuspid centrals have an hourglassshaped basalplate and welldeveloped cusps.
There are two lateral teeth the next two teeth being transitional.
Three side teeth have cutting points on the ectocones.
The marginal teeth are less crowded than in M. subplana or M .
andrewscc with shorter cusps than the former.
The number of teeth in a row is much smaller in M. inornata than in any species except M. laevigata.
The cusps of the lateral teeth have a bulging outline on the inner side as in M. andrewsce but they are much longer than in that species.
Mesomphix andrewsae Pils.
The tail pore is like that of M. laevigata.
The mantle is not pigmented over the lung.
The genital system PL XXXVII fig.
11 differs from related forms by the greater length of the spermatheca duct and epiphallus.
The penis is strongly swollen near the base and has a rather long terminal gland p.g..
Its retractor muscle is long.
The very short vagina is somewhat swollen near the base but I can see no vaginal gland there.
Length of penis 3.5 of epiphallus 14 mm.
 of spermatheca and duct 9.5 mm.
The radula PI.
XXXIX fig.
4 has 40 1 40 teeth more crowded than in M. inornata the central and lateral teeth have much shorter stouter cusps.
There are three lateral teeth the next two being transitional.
The marginal teeth are less slender and graceful than in M. inornata.
The radula of M. andrewsce most resembles that of M. inornata but differs by the much shorter cusps and the far greater number of teeth.
The soft anatomy of M .
a. montivaga Pils.
has not been examined.
Explanation of Plates XXXVII XXXVIII and XXXIX.
Plate XXXVII.
 Genitalia of Omphalina and Mesomphix.
Fig.
1.
 Omphalina kopnodes V.
G.
B..
Monte Sano near Huntsville Ala. H. H. Smith.
Fig.
2.
 Omphalina friabilis W. G.
B..
San Marcos Tex.
Pilsbry and Ferriss 1903.
Fig.
3.
 Omphalina cuprea ozarkensis P. and F. Magazine Mountain Ark.
Fig.
4. Omphalina friabilis W. G. B. Mablevale Ark.
No.
SI 115 A. N. S. P. Fig.
5.
 Omphalina friabilis W. G. B. Immature.
Wyandotte Okla.
Fig.
6.
 Omphalina pilsbryi Clapp.
Near Wetumpka Ala. No.
87349 A. N. S. P. Fig.
7.
 Mesomphix subplana Binn..
Thundcrhead Mountain.
No.
58004 A. N. S. P. Fig.
8.
 Omphalina lucubrata Say.
Texolo V. C Mex.
Fig.
. Mesomphix rugeli W. G.
B..
Roan Mountain X. C. No.
70566.
Fig.
10.
 Mesomphix laevigata monticola Pils.
Cades Cove Blount County Tenn.
Fig.
11.
 Mesomphix andrewsce Pils.
Cades Cove Tenn. No.
76821 A. N. S. P. Plate XXXVIII.
 Fig.
1.
 Omphalina cuprea Raf.
Emporium Cameron County Pa. No.
6S481 A. N. S. P. Fig.
2.0.friabilis W. G. B. Wyandotte I. T. No.
91353 A. N. S. P. Figs.
3 5.0.
kopnodes Binn..
Monte Sano near Huntsville Ala.
Fig.
4. O. friabilis W. G.
B..
Mablevale Ark.
Fig.
6. O. friabilis W. G.
B..
San Marcos Tex.
Fig.
7. O. pilsbryi Clapp.
Near Wetumpka Ala.
Plate XXXIX.
 Fig.
1.
 Mesomphix subplana Binn.
Thunderhead Mountain.
Figs.
2 3.
 Mesomphix rugeli W. G. Binney.
Roan Mountain North Carolina.
Fig.
4.
 Mesomphix andrewsas Pils.
Central lateral and transitional and two marginal teeth.
Cades Cove Tenn.
Fig.
5.
 Mesomphix inornata Say.
Pittsburgh Pa.
