DESCRIPTIONS OF NINE NEW EELS WITH NOTES ON OTHER SPECIES.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
All the material treated in this paper is contained in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
ALEBIDJE.
Alebes rufus Macleay.
Two from Victoria Australia.
MONOPTERIDiE.
Monopterus albus Zuiew.
Five from Batu Sangkar and seven from Padang Sumatra.
Of the latter three are now in Stanford University.
SYNBRANCHIDJE.
Synbranchus marmoratus Bloch.
Eleven examples from Peru Pebas Ambyiacu River Surinam Rio Grande do Sul and Sao Joao to Rio Negro and Chapada in Brazil.
ANGUILLIDiE.
Anguilla anguilla Linnanis.
Sweden Lake Lucerne Switzerland Munich Germany Italy Bonaparte 398 399 400 Arno River.
Twentyfour examples.
Anguilla japonica Schlegel.
Yodo River Wakanoura Matsushima and Kurume Japan.
Twentytwo examples.
Anguilla chrisypa Rafmesque.
Boston Nantucket Wood's Holl Massachusetts Noank Connecticut Long Island New York lower James River Virginia mouth of Kentucky River Miami and Bayport Florida San Diego Texas Santo Domingo and St. Martins West Indies.
Besides many examples representing these localities I have listed multitudes elsewhere from the Middle States region.
Anguilla mauritiana Bennett.
One from Padang Sumatra two from Samoa two from Philippine Islands.
Anguilla tricolor McClelland.
One from Padang and two from Batu Sangkar Sumatra.
One of last now in Stanford University.
Anguilla australis Richardson.
One from Victoria Australia.
SIMENOHELYIDJE.
Simenchelys parasiticus Goode and Bean.
One from N. Lat.
42 37' W. Long.
66 55' in 200 fathoms.
SYNAPHOBRANCHIDl.
Synaphobranchus pinnatus Gray.
One from N. Lat.
44 W. Long.
58 30' in 160 fathoms.
LEPTOCEPHALIDiE.
Leptocephalus conger Linnaeus.
Atlantic City Ocean City Beesley's Point and Corson's Inlet Xew Jersey Italy.
Seventeen examples.
Leptocephalus marginatus Valenciennes.
Two from Christmas Island W. H. Jones and two from Hawaii J K.
Townsend
 in Pacific Ocean.
Leptocephalus myriaster Brevoort.
One from Hiroshima and eight from Tokyo Japan.
Leptocephalus nystromi Jordan and Snyder.
Two from Nagasaki Japan.
MICROCONGER subgen.
nov.
Type Leptocephalus caudalis sp.
nov.
Differs from the subgenus Leptocephalus in the welldeveloped caudal fin.
Mjcpds small  Koyypo
or l'yyp n  the ancient name of Leptocephalus.
Loptocephalus caudalis sp.
nov.
Fig.
1.
Head 7k depth 21 head width 3 its length  snout 4 eye 6 maxillary 2f  mouth cleft 2 interorbital 9 pectoral 3 head 1 to dorsal origin head 2 to anal origin.
Body long rather well compressed especially behind and tail tapering long and slender.
Head long greatest width about equals its greatest depth profiles nearly alike.
Snout long not especially cavernous surface convex upper profile nearly straight basal width about equals its length and tip slightly protruding beyond mandible end.
Eye ellipsoid rather large close to upper profile without eyelid centre a little before first third in head.
Mouth rather large wide rictus extending back behind pupil centre though not quite opposite hind eye edge.
Maxillary extends back trifle behind hind eye edge.
Lips rather fleshy broad laterally.
Jaws strong.
Teeth largely uniserial uniform in size conic sharppointed closeset and slightly inclined back along edges of jaws.
In upper jaw front patch of slightly larger premaxillary teeth these conic sharppointed and form continuous area back on front of vomer.
Vomerine teeth similar to premaxillary teeth in somewhat triangular area with apex directed back or towards pharynx and teeth rather sparse behind.
No other teeth on mouth roof.
Teeth in mandible not continuous across symphysis and an outer and inner series of small similar teeth on anterior portion of each ramus.
Tongue smooth elongate rather narrowly triangular and free in front.
Mandible strong shallow Fig.
1.
 Leptocephalus caudalis Fowler.
Typo.
with low rami.
Front nostril in short fleshy tube near snout tip.
Hind nostril simple pore close before front rim of eye.
Interorbital narrowly constricted bony ridge surface convex.
Gillopening begins opposite superomedian pectoral ray bases curves slightly forward in crescent about If in eye.
Pharynx but little swollen.
Skin smooth.
A pair of pores on upper lip at snout tip between nasal tubes and immediately behind though more widely separated at point about first fourth in snout length another pair.
Still closer than either of these pairs a third pair of inconspicuous pores on snout superiorly placed about first third in its length.
A series of 6 pores from close after nasal tube till below lower front eye edge.
Row of 9 pores on lower side of head beginning close behind mandibular symphysis and last one just below opercle front on branchiostegal region.
Vertical series of 3 small pores behind eye short space on side of head.
L. 1. complete a little high at first then midway along tail side and extending short space on tail.
From above pectoral origin about 112 pores in 1.
1. of which 30 before vent.
L. 1. with about 7 pores before pectoral base where continued on head side till its origin above opercle front.
Dorsal anal and caudal continuous first with origin about midway in depressed pectoral length.
Dorsal and anal moderately high radii fine.
Caudal large length 1 in head with numerous fine radii contour elongate and sharply pointed behind median rays longest.
Pectoral small elongate inserted about midway in depth radii fine and fin rather pointed behind.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely dull or uniform russetbrown lower surface of head and abdomen slightly paler.
Snout tip deep brown.
Iris slaty.
Fins all plain pale brown.
Edges of vertical fins narrowly dusky becoming nearly blackish posteriorly.
Lips and gillopening pale.
Length 6f inches.
Type No.
1055 A. N. S. P. Off Lower California.
Dr. W. H. Jones.
Only the type known and apparently distinguished from all other species of the genus by its large caudal fin.
Cauda tail with reference to the large caudal fin.
Congrellus balearicus De la Roche.
Four from Italy.
Congrellus anago Schlegel.
Congrellus meeki Jordan and Snyder Proc.
U. S. Xat.
Mus. XXIII 1901 p. 347 PL 11.
Bay of Tokyo Japan.
Three from.Tokyo Japan.
One of these is typical of Congrellus meeki.
Two others from Wakanoura.
Japan.
Congrellus bowersi Jenkins.
One from Honolulu Hawaiian Islands.
Bathycongrus mystaxDe la Roche.
One from the Mediterranean.
Atopichthys nuttalli sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Head 12 depth 12J head width 2 in its length head depth at occiput 2 snout 5J eye 2 maxillary 2h interorbital 3 muscular segments about 17  143.
Body oblong greatly compressed sides flattened and only tapering at head and end of tail so that long median area of similar great depth.
Tail tapering rather suddenly more acuminate than head.
Head widest part of body little deeper than wide profiles similar.
Snout conic width about f its length and latter slightly projects beyond mandible.
Eye large impinging on upper profile at first third in head slightly ellipsoid.
Mouth large little oblique nearly Fig.
2.
 Atopichthijs nuttalli Fowler.
Type.
straight in commissure and latter reaches about hind pupil edge.
Teeth deciduous
if present as jaws at present entirely edentulous.
Tongue far back little developed.
Mandible shallow rami low as seen from below rather attenuated.
Nostrils small well separated similar anterior near snout end and posterior close before eye.
Interorbital moderately convex.
Gillopening about f in eye inferior nearly vertical or but slightly inclined forward and begins above nearly opposite and close before pectoral origin.
Body naked smooth myomeres distinct.
Vertical fins low continuous around caudal latter very small short and scarcely developed or less than  in eye.
Dorsal begins behind head a space about equal to eye and postocular region of head.
Anal begins about first  in total length.
Pectoral well developed rather high.
Vent not distinct apparently close before anal.
Color in alcohol uniform pale brownish and no dark chromatophores evident now if ever present in life.
Length 51inches 146 mm..
Type No.
1042 A. N. S. P. Hawaiian Islands.
Thomas Nuttall.
Only the type known.
This is evidently a young apodal fish possibly of Leptocephalus or some allied genus.
I have not been able to locate it among any of the numerous forms described as it differs in the combination of characters expressed in the above description.
Named for Thomas Nuttall from whom it was obtained many years ago.
MTJRENESOCIDiE.
Muraenesox savanna Cuvier.
An example 40 inches long from Santo Domingo West Indies.
Also a dried skin without data though likely from the Mediterranean
Bonaparte.
These examples show onl r such minor discrepancies as may be attributed to age individual variation or their preparation as specimens.
EOHELIDB.
Echelus myrus Linnaeus.
Two large examples from the Mediterranean.
One contained the remains of a squill.
Myrophis vafer Jordan and Gilbert.
Two from Panama McNiel.
Chilorhinus suensonii Lutken.
Three from Santa Cruz West Indies.
Muraenichthys devisi Fowler.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1907 p. 421 fig.
2.
Victoria Australia.
No.
33120 A. N. S. P. type.
Muraenichthys ogilbyi Fowler.
L. c p. 423 fig.
3 Victoria Australia.
No.
33121 A. N. S. P. type.
OPHICHTHYID.
Dalophis coecus Linnseus.
One from the Mediterranean.
Holopterura plumbea Cope.
Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. 2 XIV 1871 p. 482.
West Africa.
No.
22964 A. N. S. P. type.
Leiuranus semicinctus Lay and Bennett.
Two from Hawaii.
Chlevastes elaps sp.
now Fig.
3.
Head 17 depth at vent 65 D. about 557  25 A. about 263 head width 3 its length head depth 2f snout 5f mouth 3 interorbital 7 eye 2 in snout gillopening If head 8 to vent about 8 pores in 1.
1. before gillopening and 160 more to end of tail of which 78 between gillopening and vent.
Body extremely elongate subcylindrical or but moderately compressed with convex sides and long tail only appreciably tapering near end.
Head small rather compressed with swollen pharynx and upper profile much more evenly convex than lower.
Snout convex over surface and in profile tip firm basal width It its length.
Eye small 14 Feb. ellipsoid without eyelid or skin of head extending over entirely centre about first f in head.
Mouth small commissure but slightly curved rictus extends well behind eye.
Lips rather broad especially upper fleshy entire.
Teeth all molarlike or rounded upper lateral series distinct from vomerine or premaxillary rather irregularly uniserial begins about midway in snout length and continues back till opposite hind eye edge.
Premaxillary and vomerine teeth continuous former a little large and exposed below in front of closed mandible tip and latter like lateral upper jaw teeth though continued a little further posteriorly.
Mandibular teeth irregularly biserial anterior a little enlarged not continuous across symphysis and extend well back towards rictus.
Tongue not evident.
Manm a Fig.
3.
 Chlevastes daps Fowler.
Type.
dible strong shallow symphysis obtuse.
Anterior nostril in fleshy tube before mandible tip on upper lip.
Posterior nostril large pore with outer cutaneous edge opening downward below lower eye front.
Interorbital evenly convex.
Gillopening small inferior inclined back moderately.
Skin rather thin smooth.
Head with number of fine longitudinal wrinkles though these mostly on pharynx.
Some pores on mandible and lower side of head these inconspicuous.
Dorsal origin nearer snout tip than gillopening by space equal to If eyediameters fin begins high at origin and remains so till well posterior when but little lower.
Dorsal ends about 1 headlengths from tail tip after which a smaller low dorsal still posterior this however only extending back about half way to tail tip.
Anal little lower than dorsal moderately developed and posteriorly ends before end of dorsal.
Tail end compressed pointed tip rather slender and flexible.
Pectoral small base broad short length about half basal width.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely pale or very dull brownish generally.
Broad brownish transverse band over interorbital and down along each side of mandible not continued below.
Second head band about midway in head length wider above than below.
Third brown band of normal and regulation pattern includes gillopening and continued below.
This followed by 10 more on trunk and 12 on tail after vent very few incomplete below.
Alternating with bands 1 to 5 spots or blotches of dark brown in pale interspaces.
Where close to vertical fins both spots and transverse bands continued on them.
All dark blotches and bands with decidedly darker brown edges than their general color line of demarcation between them slight though greatly contrasting with pale color.
Iris pale gray to slaty.
Length 27f inches.
Type No.
1001 A. N. S. P. Philippine Islands.
This form approaches Chlevastes oculatus Bleeker 1 which has the narrow dark transverse bands 3 or more than 3 times narrower than the spotted or blotched interspaces.
Murcena colubrina Boddaert 2 shows 30 dark complete rings the first including snout tip second includes eye and third would apparently include gillopening which is not satisfactorily indicated.
Murcena annulata Ahl 3 and M. fasa'ata Ahl 4 are two species the original accounts of which I have been unable to consult.
For Opkisurus altemans Quoy and Gaimard 5 figure an example with 31 dark and mostly complete rings though only a few spots in a few of the interspaces.
Their figure also indicates the dorsal origin over the gillopening.
Ophichthys naja De Vis 6 is said to 1 Ophisurus fasciatus var.
oculata Bleeker Atlas Ich. IV 1864 p. 64.
East Indies.
Neu.
Nord.
Beytr. II 1781 p. 56 PL 2 fig.
2.
Amboyna.
3 Mur.
Oph.
Thunb. 1789 p 8 PI.
1 fig.
1.
East Indies.
4 L. c p. 9.
East Indies.
5 Voy.
Uranie Zool 1824 p. 243 PI.
45 fig.
2.
Guam.
6 Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
New South Wales 1883 1884 p. 455.
South Sea Islands.
have 27 dark rings and some of the pale interspaces with a large oval spot.
Its teeth are also said to be flat tubercular molars.
Elaps a genus of serpents some of which have a similar colorpattern.
Cirrhimuraena chinensis Kaup.
Two from Padang Sumatra.
One of these is now in Stanford University.
Microdonophis erabo Jordan and Snyder.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXIII 1901 p. S70 fig.
17.
Misaki Japan.
No.
26224 A. N. S. P. paratype.
Myrichthys oculatus Kaup.
One from St. Martins West Indies.
Myrichthys magnificus Abbott.
Pisoodonophis magnified Abbott Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1860 p. 476.
Hawaiian Islands.
No.
1013 A. N. S. P. type of P. magnified Abbott.
Also paratype No.
1014 same data.
The former is 27 inches long though in the original description it is given as 19 inches.
Gunther has recently 7 merged Ophisurus ophis which he says is not Murcena ophis Bloch Lacepede M. tigrina Ruppell M. maculosa Cuvier and Ophichthys stypurus R. Smith and Swain in the synonymy of this species.
However Jordan and Davis long ago 8 pointed out that Ophisurus ophis Lacepede is evidently after Bloch as is shown by the enumeration of fin rays and allow it together with Murcena ophis Linnaeus as questionable synonyms of Ophichthus havannensis Schneider .
Murcena maculosa Cuvier is based on Lacepede's Ophisurus ophis which in turn is also based on M. ophis Bloch from Surinam.
Now Ophisurus guttatus Cuvier is based directly on M. ophis Bloch so both of Cuvier's names are more likely synonyms of the American 0. havannensis Schneider.
Murcena tigrina Rtippell 9 is figured as showing the dorsal origin over the gillopening and the same is also stated in the text.
The dark spots are indicated on the figure as quite large and regular especially on the anal and belly.
The eye is shown a little anterior in the mouth cleft.
Ruppell also says der nicht sonderlich gespaltene Mund und der Gaumen mit mehreren Reihen Hakenzahne  Journ.
Mus.
Godeffroy F. Siidsee XVII 1910 p. 401.
8 Rep. U. S. F.
Com. XVI 18S8 1892 p. 629.
9 Atlas.
Reis.
N.
Af. Zool. 1S28 p. 118 PI.
30 fig.
2.
Mohila Red Sea.
besetzt.
It would seem from this that his fish is not even a Myrichthys.
Myrichthys stypurus Smith and Swain 10 may be identical with the present species but several minor differences may at least be detected such as its hind pectoral edge being lunate dorsal and anal fins persisting almost to the tail tip where quite high and the disposition of the spots.
For these reasons I decline to follow Glinther.
OphichthllS rufus Rafinesque.
Four frcm Italy.
Jordan and Davis state that the description of Echelus rufus fits this species better than Echelus polyrinus Rafinesque 12  but the figure not at all.
This is not true of my examples.
Rafinesque's figure though crude is largely identifiable with the present species.
The position of the dorsal and anal origins are correctly indicated as well as the pectoral though the snout is a little more pointed.
In any case I feel obliged to adopt it also because Bonaparte long ago used it in his MSS.
Ophisurus hispanus Bellotti 13 will then be a synonym.
I may further note that Jordan and Davis give 14 the vomerine teeth as biserial though in my examples they are all uniserial.
Moreau's rough figure of 0. hispanus 15 agrees with my material.
Ophichthus triserialis Kaup.
Herpetoichthys callisoma Abbott Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1860 p. 475.
Pacific Ocean.
No.
38148 A. N. S. P. type of H. callisoma Abbott.
Ophichthus stenopterus Cope.
Ophichthys stenopterus Cope Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila 2 XIV 1871 p. 482.
Japan.
No.
1043 A. N. S. P. type of 0. stenopterus Cope.
No.
1044 same data paratype.
Ophichthus uniserialis Cope.
Ophichthys uniserialis Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XVII 1877 p. 31.
Pecasmayo Bay Peru.
No.
21152 A. N. S. P. type of 0. uniserialis Cope.
10 Ophichthys stypurus R. Smith and Swain Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. V 1882 p. 120.
Johnston I.
11 Rafinesque Car.
Nuov.
An.
Sicil 1810 p. 65 PI.
16 fig.
2.
Palermo.
12 Rafinesque Ind.
It.
Sicil 1810 p. 69.
Palermo.
13 Accad.
Fisic.
Med.
Statist.
Milano Sed.
23 dicembr.
1857.
14 Ophichthus hispanus Jordan and Davis Rep. U. S. F.
Com. XVI 1888 1S92 pp.
624 628.
Palermo.
Hist.
Nat.
Poiss.
France III 1881 p. 584 fig.
212.
Cannes Nice.
2 Ophichthus ocellatus Le Sueur.
One from Catolera South America.
Ophisurus serpens Lacepede.
One from Italy.
MURJNID.
Enchelycore nigrocastaneus Cope.
Gymnothorax nigrocastaneus Cope Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. 2' XIV 1871 p. 483.
St. Martins West Indies.
No.
16032 A. N. S. P. type of G. nigrocastaneus Cope.
Cope says dorsal fin commencing above a point three lengths of the gape behind the end of the muzzle which is not true of his type.
The latter shows the gape 2 to dorsal origin.
The account by Jordan and Davis of E. nigricans 16 varies somewhat from my example as they give the gape 2 in the head mine showing clearly 2.
These writers also evidently had the type of G. umbrosus Poey for comparison and while they state in their description that the tail is slightly longer than the rest of the body Poey states that it is shorter.
Poey's figure shows the jaws equal the gape half way to the gillopening dorsal origin over gillopening and coloration marbled.
Further the specific name notes the animal as black Giinther giving the coloration as uniform black.
17 It would appear likely Cope's species has not been demonstrated as identical with E. nigricans.
Muraena helena Linmeus.
Three from Italy.
Muraena clepsydra Jordan and .Evermr nn.
One from Panama Ruschenberger.
Also five others without locality though likely from the same place.
Muraena myrialeucostictus sp.
now Fig.
4.
Head 1 depth 16 head width 4 its length head depth 2 snout 6 eye 9 mouth 2 interorbital 11 head Z to vent.
Body long rather deep well compressed with surfaces of sides moderately or slightly convex and rather deep tail tapering a little only at end rather suddenly.
Head compressed a little swollen behind and at occipital region just behind eyes so that upper profile at that point rather deeply concave sides rather flattened and scarcely constricted below.
Snout with profile and surface rather evenly convex somewhat conic in general form basal width  its length.
Eye a little ellip16 .Rep.
U. S. F.
Com. XVI 1888 1892 p. 588.
Barbadoes no loc. Cuba.
17 Cat.
F. Brit.
Mus. VIII 1870 p. 135.
Dominica Grenada Barbadoes.
1912.
19 soid about midway in mouth length without eyelid.
Mouth rather large nearly horizontal and not completely closing.
Lips tough rather thin smooth.
Teeth all conic and sharply pointed mostly inclined a little back and edges entire.
Upper teeth in complete uniserial outer row this extending entirely around jaw all erect anterior to eye more strongly convex and robust than behind eye where more inclined back and somewhat compressed.
Anterior to eye in upper outer series several teeth a little enlarged or slightly caninelike one also at upper jaw tip.
In front of upper jaw before eye and inside erect outer teeth about 3 series of 7 enlarged and more or less depressible conic canines.
These arranged as 2 outer series approximating in front with each containing 3 teeth and a median posterior one latter largest of all teeth in mouth and entirely depressible back.
Beginning below eye front inside outer erect Fig.
4.
 Murcena myrialeucostictus Fowler.
Type.
teeth series of 6 rather slender and larger depressible palatine teeth each side of vomer.
Latter with irregular biserial row of short conic strong teeth smaller than upper lateral teeth.
Mandibular teeth mostly uniserial like upper outer erect teeth.
Anteriorly in mandible about 3 pairs of subdepressible conic and slightly enlarged teeth first pair begins close behind or at symphysis.
No tongue.
Mandible shallow curved surface convex tip equal in front with snout tip rami low and profile a little more inclined than that of snout.
Front nostril in short tube above front eye edge in interorbital space.
Latter evenly convex.
Gillopening little below median axis of body nearly horizontal length a little more than eye.
Pharynx well swollen and with few obsolete shallow grooves.
Skin smooth tough.
Four pores on each upper lip first close behind nasal tube second midway in snout third below front eye edge and fourth below hind eye edge.
Pair of pores at snout tip another pair between nasal tubes and third pair about midway in snout length above.
Mandible pores inconspicuous apparently 4
on each ramus.
L. 1. not evident.
Dorsal origin about midway between front eye edge and gillopening fin high and continuous with small caudal.
Length of rounded caudal If in eye.
Anal similar though lower than dorsal.
Vent.
close before anal.
Color in alcohol deep chocolatebrown head body and fins marked everywhere with minute pointed dots very numerous of much paler tint than general color and all rather distinctly defined.
Towards end of tail and on caudal fin dots become whitish and a little larger.
Inside mouth color very pale brownish.
Angle of mouth brownish though not darker than general coloration.
Iris pale slaty with narrow pale circle around pupil.
Gillopening edged with blackish.
Edges of fin similar to general color and also with similar dots.
Length 16 inches.
Type No.
16031 A. N. S. P. St. Martins West Indies.
Dr. R. E. Van Rijgersma.
Only the type described above is known.
It differs from the related Murcena melanotis as described by Jordan and Davis from South American examples in the profusely dotted coloration the absence of both pale and dark mandibular blotches near the rictus and in having the mouth not completely closing.
From Murcena augusti Kaup it differs in the partly biserial uniform vomerine teeth and the body being entirely dotted minutely with whitish.
Muptas  myriad huM  white rTixTds  spotted.
Eabula panamensis Steindachner.
A single example without data evidently from Panama.
Evenchelys macrurus Bleeker.
One from Padang Sumatra.
I may here mention Murcena thyrsoidea Richardson is the type of Thyrsoidea Kaup by tautonomy and thus Bleeker's restriction of T. longissima Kaup as the type is invalid.
Evenchelys Jordan and Evermann has priority over Rhabdura recently proposed by Ogilby.
Gymnothorax aquaedulcis Cope.
Murcena aquwdulcis Cope Rep. U. S. Geol.
Surv.
Hayden 1871 1872 p. 474.
Rio Grande near fan Jose Costa Rica.
No.
14925 A. N. S. P. type of Murcena aqucedulcis Cope.
18 I may here state that the dorsal origin begins well before the gillopening Cope's statement to the contrary evidently erroneous in locating the exact origin of the fin or near last twofifths in space between latter and hind eye edge.
Gymnothorax eurostus Abbott.
Thyrsoidea eurosla Abbott Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1860 p. 478.
Hawaiian Islands.
No.
984 A. N. S. P. type of T. eurosta Abbott.
This species appears distinct from G. meleagris Shaw with which Gunther has united it.
The vomerine teeth are partly biserial and short or bluntly convex nearly molarlike.
Gymnothorax laysanus Steindachner.
Lycodontis parcibranchialis Fowler Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1900 p. 494 PL 18 fig.
1.
Hawaiian Islands.
No.
16483 A. N. S. P. type of L. parvibranchialis Fowler.
Two without data probably from Hawaii
evidently this species.
Gymnothorax stellatus Lacepede.
Three from Padang Sumatra of which one is now in Stanford University.
One also from Apia Samoa.
Gymnothorax undulatus Lacepede.
Two from the Hawaiian Islands.
One of these from J. K. Townsend I wrongly identified with Murcena pseudothyrsoidea Bleeker.
Gymnothorax kaupii Abbott.
Thyrsoidea kaupii Abbott Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1860 p. 477.
Hawaiian Islands.
No.
916 A. N. S. P. type of T. kaupii Abbott.
I also confused an example from the Hawaiian Islands W. H. Jones with M. pseudothyrsoidea Bleeker.
This species seems to differ from G. stellatus in the presence of 18 I may note that Jordan and Davis identify an eel from San Diego Cab with Cope's species and as they do not explicitly designate Cope' fish the former must be taken as the type of their genus Rabula.
Therefore the Gymnothorax aquwdulcis nee Murcena aquwdulcis Cope Jordan and Davis requires a new specific name.
Rabula davisi nom.
nov. Gymnothorax aquwdulcis nee Cope Jordan and Davis Rep. U. S. F.
Com. XVI 1888 1892 p. 598.
Named for Mr. B. M. Davis joint author with Dr. D. S. Jordan in the review of the Apodal Fishes of America and Europe.
three enlarged depressible canine teeth below the eye as seen in the inner series in the upper jaw.
Gymnothorax flavimarginatus Ruppell.
Three from Padang Sumatra.
Of these one now in Stanford University.
They all agree with Ruppell's description to some extent.
They differ from his figure in having only pale or dulledged fins posteriorly.
The figures by Bleeker have sharppointed teeth and may be different.
Ruppell says of M. flavimarginata that it is very large both jaws have a row of strong wedgeshaped teeth and the throat equally with similar teeth.
The palatine teeth are said to be four long curved depressible teeth each side.
Gymnothorax batuensis Bleeker.
One from Apia Samoa.
Apparently not identical with Murcena flavimarginata Ruppell as thought by Jordan and Seale.
Gymnothorax kidako Schlegel.
One from Tokyo Japan.
Gymnothorax moringua Cuvier.
Two from Bermuda Islands one from New Providence Bahamas one from St. Kitt's West Indies one from St. Thomas West Indies three from St. Martins West Indies.
Gymnothorax funebris Ranzani.
One from Santo Domingo West Indies.
Another without data.
Gymnothorax concolor Abbott.
Thyrsoidea concolor Abbott Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1860 p. 479.
Vera Cruz Mexico.
No.
970 A. N. S. P. type of T. concolor Abbott.
I have allowed this as a distinct form Abbott's name having priority over Murcena erebus Poey 19 which is said to have uniserial vomerine teeth.
M .
infernalis Poey 20 is said to have biserial vomerine teeth and also be identical with G. funebris Ranzani though the latter does not describe the vomerine teeth.
Jordan and Davis remark there is no doubt of the identity of funebris concolor castanea and infernalis though later Jordan and Evermann suggest castanea as probably distinct.
Gymnothorax unicolor De la Roche.
One from Italy.
Gymnothorax carcinognathus sp.
nov.
Fig.
5.
Head 7f  depth at vent 6 head width 3 in its length head 19 Mem.
Hist.
Nat.
Cuba II June 1861 p. 426.
Cuba.
20 L. c II June 1860 pp.
347 354.
Cuba.
1912.
23 depth 2 snout 4 eye 8J mouth 2 interorbital 11 head 3f to vent.
Body long slender well compressed sides but slightly convex and tapering in long slender tail after vent.
Head well compressed little swollen behind sides a little approximated below and profiles similarly inclined in front to form long conic slender muzzle.
Snout conic surface and profile convex basal width half its length.
Eye a little ellipsoid about midway in mouth length without eyelid.
Mouth large jaws curved like forceps and exposing most of dentition thus not closing completely  .
y.i.ifi 5.  '' .
'''' .
5'i' A ''''iV a VV'
'' 'vi .
 ' 4.''f V ''AvV'' iOV''ii' Fig.
5.
 Gymnothorax carcinognathns Fowler.
Type.
or with only their tips approximated.
Lips rather thin lower scarcely developed posteriorly on sides.
Teeth conic greatly acuminate edges entire and with slender sharp tips.
An upper outer series of erect conic teeth these with a distinctly smaller or shorter number most all their extent all very slightly inclined back though after eye more so.
Before eye in upper outer series of teeth 3 pairs of erect enlarged conic canines alternating with 2 pairs of depressible conic canines latter bend inwards.
A depressible though shorter conic canine bends back towards vomer between first pair of anterior upper erect canines.
This followed by 3 very longslender and slightly curved depressible canines graduated from anterior to last in length which longest of all teeth or but slightly less than horizontal eyediameter.
Below eye in outer upper series of erect teeth 2 canines a little larger than most of teeth in their series though not so large as anterior canines.
Below front rim and close to 2 erect canines below eye though directly inside one or two canines each side of palatine area depressible towards vomer and conic.
Vomerine teeth regularly uniserial begins about opposite front pupil rim first few a little larger than others which graduate much smaller behind all conic and sharp pointed also a little inclined posteriorly.
Mandibular teeth uniserial conic rather compressed inclined well posteriorly mostly equal in size except in front and all rather smaller than upper lateral teeth.
On left symphyseal portion of mandibular ramus 2 enlarged erect and slightly curved conic canines and on right symphyseal ramus same number.
Between all these erect teeth a similar depressible canine as one at symphysis one between each erect pair and a second on right ramus after second erect one.
No tongue.
Mandible slender slightly curved and a trifle shorter than snout tip shallow and surface convex.
Front nostrils each in rather slender cutaneous tube each side of snout tip and each about half of horizontal eyediameter.
Hind nostril simple pore above eye front in interorbital space.
Latter depressed medianly slightly convex.
Gillopening a little below median axis nearly horizontal and about equals eye.
Pharynx rather swollen and forms greatest body depth.
Skin smooth tough.
Under surface and lower side of pharynx with several deep longitudinal grooves about a dozen in number.
Upper lip with 4 pores each side first below nasal tube third and fourth below eye and second about midway in snout length.
A pair of wideset small pores at snout tip another pair between nasal tubes and third pair a trifle nearer snout tip than eye.
Each mandibular ramus with at least 4 inconspicuous pores.
L. 1. not evident.
Dorsal origin about midway between mouth corner and gillopening fin rather high continuous behind with rather short and acuminate caudal.
Latter about I3in eye.
Anal like dorsal only lower.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol rather light brown with numerous indistinct mottlings and marblings of paler especially on back and fins.
Edge of dorsal with very narrow and at first marginal though posteriorly or on tail submarginal dusky line.
On tail behind this replaced by still narrower and entirely marginal creamy edge.
Latter continues around tail and whole length of anal also becomes much wider and distinct on front of anal.
Latter apparently without any distinct submarginal dark streak.
A deep brownish blotch at rictus or corner of mouth.
Gillopening pale.
Head rather uniform brownish above and below paler and immaculate like abdomen.
1912.
25 Length 2 If inches.
Type No.
38163 A. N. S. P. St. Martins West Indies.
Dr. R. E. Van Rijgersma.
Only the single example described above.
It differs from the other West Indian species in its dentition slender forcepslike jaws and coloration.
h'dpzro 
forceps yvadosj jaw.
Gymno thorax pictus Ahl.
One from the Hawaiian Islands.
This shows the posterior nostrils with a small or low cutaneous fringe which in combination with the molarlike teeth likely allow it to enter Sidera Kaup as a valid subgenus.
AHYNNODONTOPHIS subgen.
nov.
Type Gymnothorax stigmanotus sp.
nov. No vomerine teeth.
Other teeth entirely uniserial except three on premaxillary region of upper jaw.
This group differs from all the other subgenera included under Gymnothorax chiefly in the absence of or in having deciduous vomerine teeth.
J without owis  vomer ddous tooth opi snake with reference to the absence of vomerine teeth.
SSSBSeSwBSBi . Fig 0.
 Gymnothorax stigmanotus Fowler.
Type.
GymnothoTax stigmanotus sp.
nov.
Fig.
6.
Head 6f  depth at vent 13f  head width 3 in its length head depth If snout 5f eye 12 mouth 2 interorbital 9 head 3f to vent.
Body long well compressed trunk rather deep sides flattened and tail tapering in rather long slender point from vent.
Head large compressed rather deep with slightly swollen pharynx flattened sides scarcely constricted below attenuated in front and upper profile indented above eye.
Snout conic tip and surface convex basal width If its length.
Eye rounded closer to upper profile than mouth about midway in gape of latter and without eyelid.
Mouth large horizontal and completely closing.
Lips rather tough and fleshy minutely papillose.
Teeth conic mostly erect subequal strong edges entire uniserial in jaws posteriorly or laterally a little inclined backward.
In upper jaw each side 5 large erect conic canines before eyes and 2 below latter though these a little smaller.
Medianly on premaxillary region or well before eye series of 3 enlarged conic depressible canines last largest.
Mandible with uniserial teeth 4
enlarged erect conic canines each side in front followed by mostly equal row of closeset backwardly directed and rather compressed teeth.
No vomerine teeth now but depressions or little concavities which would indicate that if teeth occur they are deciduous.
No tongue.
Mandible equal with snout tip in front surface convex rami low and strong.
Front nostril in short fleshy tube length 2 in eye.
Hind nostril simple pore little before eye front.
Interorbital space convex.
Occipital region well swollen and bulging rather abruptly down to interorbital in profile.
Gillopening a little below median axis in body but little inclined from horizontal length about If in snout.
Pharynx with about a dozen deep grooves longitudinally each side and below.
Skin smooth tough and thick especially along bases of dorsal and anal.
Along each upper lip 5 pores well above lower edge first close before nasal tube second close behind nasal tube third little before middle in snout fourth a little before front eye edge and fifth below hind eye edge.
On snout above a pair of wideset pores between nasal tubes and another a little before third upper labial pair well superior on snout.
About 5 pores on each mandibular ramus.
L. 1. not evident.
Dorsal origin apparently near last fourth in space between hind eye edge and gillopening fin high especially behind where continuous with caudal.
Latter rounded length about If in eye.
Anal like dorsal only lower.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol deep chocolatebrown mostly with this groundcolor entirely uniform and belly and head below scarcely paler.
On back and most of trunk posteriorly inconspicuous pale or minute grayish dots like pinpoints rather sparsely distributed.
These not extending on belly or head though on dorsal fin becoming more numerous than on body.
Dorsal also with numerous oblique narrow lines of darker shade than body color sloping up from back towards edge.
Anal with several more or less complete darker longitudinal lines than groundcolor of fin.
Iris brownish.
Mouth brownish inside.
Rictus not darker than groundcolor of bod'.
Gillopenings similar.
Teeth pale.
Length 27 inches.
Type No.
16705 A. N. S. P. No data.
This specimen was in a jar received from E. D. Cope labelled Texas and may have been secured somewhere in the West Indies.
In many respects this species resembles the larger examples of G. funebris in the collection but it has no vomerine teeth and the lips are densely papillose.
Its dorsal is also more posteriorly inserted and the coloration is entirely different.
Iriytja spot euroy back with reference to the dorsal spots.
Subgenus PRIODOXOPHIS Kaup.
Gymnothorax ocellatus Agassiz.
One from Santo Domingo West Indies.
This seems to agree better with Agassiz's figure than the other examples listed below which I formerly identified with it.
Agassiz shows the white spots of uneven size some of which about equal to pupil and others smaller and dorsal and anal with many various white spots of which some small and others much larger than eye black interspaces often equally large.
Gymnothorax ocellatus saxicola Jordan and Davis.
One from New Jersey and another from Pensacola Florida.
Eurymyctera acutirostris Abbott.
Murcena acutirostris Abbott Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila. 1860 p. 476.
Hawaii.
No.
998.
A. N. S. P. type of M. acutirostris Abbott.
Echidna zebra Shaw.
One from Muscat Cove Philippine Islands.
Echidna peli Kaup.
Three from West Africa.
28 Feb. Echidna nocturna Cope.
Pcecilophis nocturna Cope Rep. U. S. Geol.
Surv.
Hayden 1871 1872 p. 474.
Rio Grande at San Jose Costa Rica.
No.
14926 A. N. S. P. type of P. nocturnus Cope.
Echidna chionostigma sp.
now Fig.
7.
Head 8 depth 15 head width 3 in its length head depth If snout 6 eye 9 mouth 2f interorbital 8f  head 3f to vent.
Body moderately long well compressed trunk of about even depth belly with lower surface rounded and long tail tapering back in rather acuminate tip.
Fig.
7.
 Echidna chionostigma Fowler.
Type.
Head well compressed upper profile rather swollen above with depression above eye otherwise like convex lower and more or less flattened sides not especially converging above or below.
Snout surface and profile convex basal width 1 its length.
Eye rounded without eyelid trifle nearer mouth corner than snout tip.
Mouth nearly horizontal not completely closing moderate.
Lips thick fleshy minutely papillose.
Teeth mostly molarlike upper anterior to eye largest in same jaw these in a continuous outer series and median gradually larger series of 3 all erect and obtusely conic.
On vomer teeth continued back from anterior upper teeth as an irregular double series of smaller shorter ones.
In upper jaw from below front of each eye backward a somewhat irregular double series of rather slender sharply pointed conic depressible teeth.
Mandibular teeth rather short obtuse mostly somewhat pointed and biserial anteriorly where approximated to upper jaw when mandible closes.
No tongue.
Mandible powerful well curved rami rather low symphyseal tip trifle shorter than snout tip.
Front nostril in short pale tube each side of snout tip.
Hind nostril in slightly elevated cutaneous rim above front eye edge.
Interorbital convex.
Gillopening inclined moderately below median body axis about equals eye in length.
Pharynx well swollen though not conspicuously so.
Skin smooth tough.
Along each upper lip 5 pores.
On snout above 2 pairs of pores between front nasal tubes and another pair placed about midway between front and hind pairs.
Along each mandibular ramus 5 pores.
No 1.
1.
Dorsal origin last  in space between hind eye edge and gillopening fin well elevated and continuous around tail with small rounded caudal.
Latter about equals eye.
Anal like dorsal only lower.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol deep chocolatebrown generally marked with small white points well scattered numerous rounded and none larger than pupil.
These white spots not extending on median line of abdomen or head below.
Labial pores of head each situated in a white spot.
Mouth corners and gillopenings pale or like surrounding coloration.
Inside mouth pale.
Iris pale slaty.
Whitish dots on fins similar to those on body.
Length 13 inches.
Type No.
14519 A. N. S. P. Probably from the Gulf of California.
Also No 14520 same data paratype.
Head 7 depth 17 snout 5 in head  eye 8   mouth 3  interorbital 8  head 4to vent.
Mouth completely closing.
Anterior upper median enlarged teeth depressible.
Neither of my examples show the pale dots with blackish margins.
This species resembles Echidna nocturnus but differs in the longer anal.
The example supposed to have been taken at Cape San Lucas by Xantus and referred to E. nocturnus by Jordan and Davis may probably be identical with the present species.
Xtwv snow rriyij.a spot with reference to the spotted coloration.
Echidna catenata Bloch.
Three from St. Martins West Indies.
Another very young largely agrees with the largest in its dentition.
In color many of its bands are alternately irregular so that but few nearly complete saddlelike blotches form.
Length 6 inches.
30 Feb. Echidna nebulosa Ahl.
Three from Samoa one from Hawaii and another without data likely from the last locality.
Echidna polyzona Richardson.
One from Hawaii.
Eohidna zonata Fowler.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1900 p. 495 PI.
18 fig.
2.
Hawaii.
No.
16484 A. N. S. P. type.
Echidna sauvagei sp.
nov.
Fig.
8.
Head 7 depth 13 head width 3 its length head depth If snout 6 eye 9 mouth 3 interorbital 8 J  head 3 to vent.
Body long well compressed or sides with but slightly convex surfaces trunk of about uniform depth and tail tapering back behind moderately slender to tip.
Fig.
8.
 Echidna sauvagei Fowler.
Type.
Head well compressed rather swollen behind lower profile more evenly convex than upper which depressed slightly over eye and sides not converging above or below.
Snout convex over profile and surface basal width  its length.
Eye large slightly ellipsoid without eyelid little behind middle in upper jaw length.
Mouth nearly horizontal commissure but slightly curving down though showing it not completely closing.
Lips thick fleshy smooth rather broad and largely free.
Teeth all coarse rather large obtuse.
Upper teeth little longer than others anterior to eye latter more conic though tips not sharp pointed forming an erect outer series and a median series of 3 larger and partly movable broadbased ones.
All vomerine region from about opposite beginning of eye backwards with series of 3 and in widest portion of area 4 of broad low convex molarlike teeth.
Surface of this whole area also convex.
Along sides of upper jaw also extending well forward though rather irregularly two rows of small and rather slender obtuselypointed teeth these also in places partly movable.
Mandibular teeth low molarlike biserial largely uniform in size closeset and only anterior inner series more enlarged with outer series decreasing in size.
No tongue.
Mandible strong convex curved so that only symphyseal region approximates front of upper jaw and tip a little shorter than slightly protruding snout.
Front nostril in fleshy tube each fide of snout tip length 2 in eye.
Hind nostril simple pore over eye front edge hardly elevated.
Gillopening short and nearly horizontal slit about midway in axis of body length about equals eye.
Pharynx well swollen surface smooth and but few slight lateral longitudinal short grooves.
Skin tough smooth.
Along each upper lip laterally 4 pores and along each mandibular ramus 6 pores.
On snout 3 pairs of pores first at tip second between nasal tubes and third midway hi snout length.
No 1.
1.
Dorsal origin little nearer gillopening than mouth corner fin high and continuous with caudal.
Latter rounded length 1 in eye.
Anal like dorsal only lower.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol rich brown generally a trifle darker above on trunk than below though tail more unicolor.
Along back about 24 transverse obscure illdefined and slightly darker bars or bands these not continuous across belly or only after vent.
Through eye and passing over forehead and mandible median ly a deep brown transverse band though not continuous on lower surface of mandible.
Another illdefined band though leaving a quite dusky blotch or tinge at rictus passes similarly behind latter though including it in its course.
Transverse bands also reflected on dorsal and anal.
Body most everywhere on trunk tail and fins with more or less swarthy appearance.
End of muzzle largely whitish surface of snout above and symphyseal region of mandible slightly tinged with brownish.
Edges of fins not darker except where bands extend more or less completely.
Eye pale slaty.
Inside mouth whitish.
Length 15 inches.
Type No.
38164 A. N. S. P. No data though taken from a jar containing an example of Echidna nebulosa and two examples of Gymnothorax laysanus thus likely from Hawaii.
This example resembles Poecilophis tritor Vaillant and Sauvage but differs in the throat not having some horizontal black lines the tail a little longer than the body the gillopening not surrounded by a more or less distinct blackish spot and the dentition.
Named for Dr. Henri E. Sauvage author of numerous contributions to Ichthyology.
Echidna delicatula Jordan and Seale.
One from Apia Samoa.
Uropterygius macrocephalus Bleeker.
Three from Apia Samoa.
MOBJNGTJID.
Aphthalmichthys gangeticus sp.
nov.
Fig.
9.
Head 10 depth about 53 head width about 5 in its length head depth about 4 snout 7 eye about 1 in snout mouth 3f in head interorbital about 2 in snout head 9 to vent.
   ' '  '  j.
.
'.
   ''.vfc.ii.' .
  ..'.
..CLL1 .'  5SSS35i Fig.
9.
 Aphthalmichthys gangeticus Fowler.
Type.
Body slender subcylindrical of more or less uniform depth anteriorly and only tapering gradually behind.
Tail short slightly compressed and attenuated.
Head with rather swollen appearance surface convex attenuated in front.
Snout conic pointed basal width about 1 its length and tip slightly projects damaged but restored in figure beyond symphysis of mandible.
Eye a little ellipsoid a little nearer rictus than snout tip without eyelid.
Mouth horizontal rather small.
Teeth small conic rather slender biserial around edge of upper jaw and uniserial in mandible.
No other teeth clearly distinguished.
No tongue.
Jaws completely closing and rami low in mouth.
Anterior nostril.
Posterior nostril simple pore close before eye on side of snout.
Interorbital slightly convex.
Gillopening small lateral about size of eye in length
damaged.
Skin smooth.
Dorsal and anal developed as low cutaneous folds former beginning about opposite vent and latter close after.
Both obsolete behind and in height scarcely equal to half of bodydepth at that point.
End of tail simple point without any trace of caudal fin.
Vent little before last eight in total length.
Color faded dull or uniform pale brownish.
Eyes slaty.
Length about 5f inches.
Type No.
1086 A. N. S. P. Ganges River India.
Dr. M. Burrough.
This species differs from the only other Indian species of the genus A. macrocephalus in having the vent much more posterior.
Named for the River Ganges somewhere in the estuary of which the species was likely secured.
