REPTILES COLLECTED BY THE YALE PERUVIAN EXPEDITION OF 1912.
BY THOMAS BARBOUR.
Dr. Hiram Bingham has sent me two small lots of snakes nine specimens in all from Machu Pichu 900010000 feet altitude Department of Cuzco Southern Peru.
They were collected by Dr. George P. Eaton and Mr. EUwood C. Erdis.
Four species are represented of which two are new.
The types of the new species have been studied by Dr. A. G. Ruthven and the description of one of them appears under his name.
The other he returned since he had no material of the genus Drepanodon for direct comparison and since the Yale specimen had its teeth badly broken he was loath to describe it.
I have however a specimen of D. anomalus Jan. which I obtained in Bolivia and am enabled to make quite sure I think that the second specimen represents an undescribed species of this genus.
The fact that Dr. Ruthven was leaving for South America on a collecting trip and the desirability of reporting on this material at once has led me to describe one species myself with Dr. Ruthven's consent and to include his description of the other with my own.
Dr. Bingham has kindly added these specimens to the Reptile Collection of the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Atractus badius Boie.
Boie Isis 1S27 p. 540.
Boulenger Cat.
Sn.
B. M. 2 1894 p. 308.
Four specimens from Machu Pichu.
In squamation these all fall within the limits indicated by Boulenger I.e..
In coloration however they do not agree quite so well.
It is also noteworthy that these four examples from the same locality are exactly alike in pattern and shade of color.
They are pale reddishbrown above with more or less irregular darker blotches above which have a tendency to fall into alternating series upon the dorsal region.
The ventral surface is covered with blotches of brownishblack many of which are often confluent.
This coloration combines some of the characters described by Boulenger for what he calls var.
B. and C. Nevertheless it is quite different and may be confined to specimens from this part of Peru.
If this turns out to be the case it will be advisable to name this race.
34 Drepanodon erdisii sp.
nov.
Type Mus.
Comp.
ZooL No.
8829 from Machu Pichu Peru 1912 collected by the Yale Peruvian Expedition of that year.
Head rather distinct from neck eye moderate with vertically elliptical pupil.
Body quite strongly compressed scales smooth no apical pits in nineteen rows ventrals 198 rounded anal undivided subcaudals in 64 pairs.
Rostral broader than high just visible from above  nostril in the suture between two nasals  frontal longer than broad almost triangular the apex being directed backward loreal not conspicuously small almost a rectangle one prseand two postoculars temporals 23 eight upper labials of which the fourth and fifth enter the eye  four lower labials in contact with the anterior chin shields which are alOut equal in length to the posterior pair.
In color the head is black with an incomplete collar interrupted on the nape red in life undoubtedly and white in spirits.
The body is crossed by twentyseven broad black bands which are about twelve scales wide dorsally and much more narrow ventrally usually covering but four ventrals.
The result is an equal number of interspaces wide below and narrow dorsally which are white in spirits probably also red in life.
There are numerous black spots in the white red
areas dorsally and a few in the lateral interspaces.
Ten black rings upon tail including the tip which is black the interspaces being very narrow.
Named for Mr. Ellwood C. Erdis who with Dr. Eaton collected these specimens.
Drepanodon eatoni Ruthven sp.
nov.
Type.
Mus.
Comp.
ZooL No.
8831 from Machu Pichu Peru 1912 collected by the Yale Peruvian Expedition of that year.
There are 1213 small maxillary teeth subequal or slightly increasing in length followed after a short interspace by two enlarged and compressed teeth.
Mandibular teeth subequal.
Head distinct from neck eye moderate with vertically elliptic pupil.
Body a little compressed scales smooth and without pits in fifteen rows throughout ventrals 165 rounded.
Tail moderate subcaudals in 32 pairs anal plate entire.
Rostral normal just visible from above two nasals frontal slightly broader than long with an obtuse angle posteriorly loreal very small and low preoculars 1 and 2 postoculars 2 temporals 12 and 22 upper labials 7 third and fourth beneath the eye 7 lower labials four in contact with the anterior chill shields which are of about the .same length as the posterior pair.
Anteriorly the back is crossed by black bars about 4 scales broad which are imperfectly continued on the sides of the belly and mostly interrupted on the median line.
Toward the middle of the body the lateral parts of the bars tend to become displaced to form a pattern of alternating blotches which are sometimes connected on the lower part of the sides.
Near the tail the black markings are again united into cross bars and on the tail again broken up into alternating spots.
The interspaces are about 3 scales wide and scales are mostly pale reddish in life
 relieved by small pale brown lines or spots and generally a poorly defined dark brown spot or line.
There is an irregular light collar from which a poorly defined continuation extends on the temple.
Sides of head with pale mark chin much spotted with black.
It will be noted that the characters of this snake are not exactly the same as those ascribed to the genus Drepanodon.
The principal differences from the other species are the slightly greater number of maxillary teeth and the shape of the body but the writer believes that the forms have enough in common to make it advisable to refer the species tentatively to this genus.
The collection also contains a single paratjje of this species.
Named for Dr. George F. Eaton who with Mr. Erdis collected these specimens.
Lachesis lanceolatus Lacpede.
Lacpede Serp. 2 1789 pp.
80 121 pi.
5. fig.
1.
Boulenger Cat.
Sn.
B. M. 3 1896 p. 535.
Two tTical examples of this dangerous and wideranging species.
Explanation of the Plate XVII.
Fig.
1.
 Dorsal view of head of type of Drepanodon eatonii Ruthven.
Four times natural size.
Fig.
2.
 Lateral view of head of same specimen.
Similar enlargement.
Fig.
3.
 Dorsal view of head of type of Drepanodon erdisii Barbour.
Four times natural size.
Fig.
4.
 Lateral view of head of same specimen.
Similar enlargement.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SYNONYMY OF SERPENTS IN THE FAMILY ELAPIDa.
BY JOSEPH C. THOMPSON SURGEON U. S. N. In Mr. Ruthven's epochmaking monograph Variations and Genetic Relationships of the Gartersnakes one reads An examination of the systematic work that has been done upon the snakes shows as might be expected that it is largely analytical in its nature being for the most part descriptive of the existing diversities and a little further along he adds After analysis therefore as has been said comes the need of a larger synthesis.
The first step in the synthetic work is the reexamination of specimens that have been made the types of new species.
This note calls attention to five that should be stricken from the list of valid species.
Described as New.
Correct Status.
Naja tripudians samarensis Peters Naja tripudians Merrem.
Naja morgani Mocquard.
Walterinnesia mgyptica Latastc.
Callophis boettgeri Fritze.
Calliophis japonicus Guenther.
Calliophis swinhoei Denburgh.
Calliophis macclellandii Reinhardt .
Flaps heterochilus Mocquard.
Elaps spixii Wagler.
Naja tripudians Merrem.
Type.
 Naja tripudians Laur. nova var.
Samarensis Peters. Berlin Museum.
Loquilocun Samar Philippine Islands.
The subspecies of Peters which was later promoted to the rank of a species is based upon a cobra that is normal in every respect with the exception that the supralabials are reduced from seven to six.
This is brought about by the fusion of the normal third and fourth shields.
As the result of this two more characters become altered there is but one labial the fused shield entering the eye and the rostral shield becomes a trifle wider.
Four specimens from Samar have been examined at the United States National Museum and at the Senckenberg Museum.
In these specimens the rostral and the supralabial shields were normal the scale count averaged twentyone 1 1908 Btdletin 61 U. S. National Museum p. 1.
Loc.
ciL p. 2.
3 1861 Mon.
Berl.
Akad. p. 690.
1913.1 509 rows on the neck and nineteen on the body the gastrosteges one hundred sixtynine the urosteges fifty and the total two hundred nineteen.
In the Catalogue of the Snakes in the British Museum there is a full page of synonymy for Naja tripudians followed by the remark This species as here understood varies very considerably and the forms enumerated hereafter might be regarded as distinct species but for the absence of any sharp demarcationlines between them.
Instead of this serving as an object lesson of the futility of the endeavor to divide a complex and variable species such as the cobra into endless subspecies labor is still being expended.
The present vogue is to arrange the cobras in an arithmetical series calculated from the number of ventral and subcaudal shields or from the sum of both.
Where a gap in the series is discovered which gap is regularly due to lack of sufficient material  there to boldly draw a line between this and that subspecies.
On one occasion no demarcationlines whatever were needed to reestablish a subspecies.
We learn  that the variety leucodira comes from Sumatra and sputatrix from Java.
The distinguishing characters of the two are presented in tabular form Variety.
Locality.
Scales.
Gastrosteges.
Urosteges.
Neck.
Body.
leucodivw  Sumatra Java 252321 2523 211917 232119 174193 163183 4655 4453 In other words this table shows Sumatran specimens to be characterized by having at times two scale rows less on the neck two less on the body ten more gastrosteges and two more urosteges than some Javan specimens.
Javan specimens to be distinguishable bj occasionally having two more scale rows on the body eleven gastrosteges less and two urosteges less than some Sumatran specimens.
As a matter of fact when two groups of animals require to be defined in terms of this nature it really means that they belong to the same species and that the only tangible difference between them is to be found on the locality label.
Walterinnesia aegyptica Lataste.
Type.
 Naja morgani Mocquard. Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat. No.
04562.
Arabistan Persia.
n912 Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool Vol.
XLIV No.
1 pp.
135 136.
5 190.5 Bull.
Mm.
Paris XI p. 78.
Squamation.
 Scales in 23 rows on the neck and 22 rows on the anterior part of the body gastrosteges 184 anal divided urosteges 44 pairs the first to the ninth entire.
Rostral deeper than broad portion visible from above measuring threefourths its distance from the frontal frontal longer than wide 7 mm.
by 5 mm.
 one preocular two postoculars and one subocular two anterior and three posterior temporals seven supralabials the third and fourth entering the eye.
third the deepest fifth touches the inferior postocular on the right but not on the left side  anterior geneials longer than the posterior.
Anatomy.
 Head 34 mm.
long snout 10.6 mm. projecting 4 mm.
beyond the tip of the lower jaw diameter of the eye 3.5 mm. its distance from the mouth 4.8 mm.
Maxillary bone extending forwards beyond the palatine and bearing in addition to the fangs two small grooved teeth.
CoTYPEs.
 Naja morgani Mocquard.
Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat. No.
04563.
Arabistan Persia.
Squamation.
 Scales in 24 rows on the neck gastrosteges 182 the 182d shield is divided anal divided urosteges 46 pairs the second partly divided the third entire.
Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat. No.
04564.
Arabistan Persia.
Total length 562 tail 70 mm.
Squamation.
 Scales in 25 rows on the neck and 23 on the anterior part of the body gastrosteges 196 urosteges 40 pairs the first to the third entire.
Rostral broader than deep portion visible from above threefourths as long as its distance from the frontal frontal longer than broad 4.7 mm.
by 3 mm.
 one preocular two postoculars and one subocular two anterior and three posterior temporals.
Anatomy.
 Head 23.5 mm.
long snout 7.5 mm.
 diameter of the eye 2.6 mm. its distance from the mouth 3 mm.
 pupil oval.
Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat. No.
04565.
Arabistan Persia.
Total length 650 tail 92 mm.
Squamation.
 Scales in 25 rows on the neck and 23 on the anterior part of the body gastrosteges 186 anal divided urosteges 45 pairs the second to the ninth entire.
Internasals 3.2 mm.
long prefrontals 3.3 mm.
long frontal 5.6 mm.
long and 4.1 mm.
broad its distance from the rostral 4.2 mm.
Anatomy.
 Head 23 mm.
long and 16 mm.
broad snout 8.5 mm.
long diameter of the eye 3 mm. its distance from the mouth 3.6 mm.
Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat. No.
04566.
Arabistan Persia.
Squamation.
 Scales in 23 rows on the neck and 21 on the anterior part of the body gastrosteges 193  anal divided  urosteges 43 pairs the second to the sixth entire.
Rostral 3.3 mm.
long 2.3 mm.
broad portion visible from above equals 1.5 mm. its distance from the frontal 2.5 mm.
 internasals 2 mm.
long prefrontals 2 mm.
long parietals 5.2 mm.
long two preoculars two postoculars and one subocular two anterior temporals two posterior on the right and three on the left side.
Anatomy.
 Head 15 mm.
long snout 5 mm.
long diameter of the eye 1.8 mm. its distance from the mouth 1.8 mm.
Calliophis japonicus Guenther.
Type.
 Callophis boettgeri Fritze.
 Mus.
Senckenbergianum No.
9395.
Tokuchimura Okinawa Loo Choo Islands.
Male total length 384 tail 37 mm.
Squamation.
 Temporals one anterior one median and two posterior on the right and one anterior two median and two posterior on the left side.
Coloration.
 Five longitudinal stripes broader than the intervals the lateral pair terminate at the base of the tail.
Body with nine tail with one crossband.
The records of the color pattern show that the longitudinal markings vary in number and width from a single narrow vertebral line to five stripes that are broader than the intervals.
Furthermore between the extremes there exist the following unbroken series of intermediate designs A median stripe.
A median stripe with trace of the intermediate pair.
A median stripe and the intermediate pair.
A median stripe the intermediate pair and a trace of the lateral pair.
A median stripe the intermediate and the lateral stripes narroAver than the intervals.
A median stripe the intermediate and the lateral stripes broader than the intervals.
Specimens possessing these various color patterns do not have associated with them the slightest diversity in structure.
The serpents with five stripes that are broader than the intervals have been elevated to specific rank as C alio phis boettgeri Fritze.
The name has been correctly assigned to synonymy and should be allowed to remain there.
6 1894 Zool.
Jahrb. VII p. 861.
7 1896 Boulenger Cat.
Sn.
Brit.
Mus. Ill p. .39.5.
Major Wall mentions two specimens as having tiie last ventral shield divided.
This condition seems to be prevalent to a marked degree in Asiatic Elapidse.
The local name akamata signifying ''reddeath is a simple reference to the color and the dangerous nature of the beast.
The mata element of the phrase is the MalayoPolynesian root form meaning death and is used in this connection from Madagascar in the west to Hawaii in the east.
Calliophis macclellandii Rcinhardt.
Type.
 Calliophis swinhoei Denburgh. California Acad.
Sci. No.
14978.
Suishako Central Formosa.
Female total length 220 tail 20 mm.
This synonym is based upon a specimen that was purchased from a dealer in Japan.
The description or the type does not mention any character by which it may be distinguished from a normal Calliophis macclellandii the diagnosis which is an epitome of the description reads Similar to Calliophis macclellandii but with more numerous gastrosteges and urosteges the sum of the gastrosteges and urosteges always more than 256.
The distribution of Calliophis macclellandii is from northern India to Formosa.
It belongs to a group in which a particularly wide range in the number of vertebrae frequently occurs in the same species.
If the records be tabulated one may see at a glance the following data Gastrosteges Range in 17 specimens .'
182240 Range in 12 from mainland 182231 Range in 5 from Formosa 219240 Overlapping of mainland and island specimens In terms of gastrosteges 12 In percentage of range 20.6 Urosteges  Range in 17 specimens 2541 Range in 12 from mainland 2536 Range in 5 from Formosa 3241 Overlapping of mainland and island specimens In terms of gastrosteges  5 In percentage of range 30 S1912 Proc.
Cal.
Ac.
Sci. 4 Vol.
Ill p. 255.
Sum of the gastrosteges and urosteges Range in 17 specimens.
210274 Range in 12 from mainland 210250 Range in 5 from Formosa  200274 Gap between mainland and island specimens In terms of gastrosteges 4 In percentage of range  6i If this data be plotted on squared paper due regard being taken of the gastrostege and the urostege count an instructive diagram will result.
The solid dots represent mainland and the circles island specimens where the sex has been recorded there is added the conventional sign.
Su ra irin   fro MO 5A IFO UEN d RM OSA fsi KIM Jfi CHI lA IRM A  fllN ff OAR JEE LIN   EEL f 
25 VkL .S2  190 200 210 220 230 240 n h 1               gg  r MO    BB a J   L 
1 Observations along these lines are of interest when carried out as studies in geographical variation but when thej become the basis of new species nothing but confusion will eventually result.
The point that these tables really make clear is that the island specimens differ from those of the mainland in having an increased number of vertebrae.
This is a wellknown phenomenon and it occurs in almost all the species of Colubrinse Najidse and Crotalinae that inhabit both the mainland of Asia and the adjacent island arcs.
To estallish C. swinhoei involved the following procedure From the records of twelve mainland and five island specimens seventeen in all certain additions and subtractions were made and a difference of four vertebrae in a range of sixtyfour equivalent to Gj was discovered.
This Gj variation in a single character was added to the locality label and the sum was a new species.
Where the same species inhabits the mainland and an adjacent island and where but a few examples are studied from each locality it is but the application of the most elementary arithmetic to demonstrate that a small gap exists betAveen the two groups.
Where these two groups are recognized in taxonomy and where the series increases and the gap disappears then but one criterion is left by which the determination of a specimen may be accomplished  namely the locality label.
Elaps spixii Wagler.
Type.
 Elaps heterochilus Mocquard. Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat. No.
87122.
Brazil.
Total length 553 tail 43 mm.
Squamation.
 Scales in 15 continuous rows gastrosteges 209 anal entire urosteges 29 pairs the 3d to the 8th and the 24th entire.
One preocular and two postoculars six supralabials the third and fourth entering the eye.
Coloration.
 Thirtysix subequal black rings distinct arrangement in triads is present only in the first three sets posteriorly the interspaces between the sets are distinguished by being a trifle wider and by having the red scales with a slightly smaller black spot at the tip.
Anatomy.
 Diameter of the eye 1.6 mm. its distance from the mouth 2 mm.
There are nearly forty species of Elaps and all have seven supralabials.
There is no genus of anything like this size with so uniform a count.
The reduction to six supralabials seen in this specimen is caused by the fusion of the normal first and second this fused shield shows on its lower margin an indenture and a very short suture extending upward.
The reduction in the number of infralabials is due to the fusion of the normal first and second the right shield has a short incisure from the oral rim.
These dents and short sutures indicate the position of the normal line of separation.
The temporals are irregular  the anterior shield on the right side being fused with all the lateral cephalic shields as far back as the last labial the posterior temporal on the left side is fused with the shield that normally intervenes between it and the azygos plate lehind the parietals.
E. heterochilus has been based upon a specimen having a number of the normal shields fused and others not completely divided.
M. Mocquard suggested that these conditions might be abnormal when he wrote La disposition observes ici pourrait done n'etre qu'une simple anomalie.
U. S. F. S. Albatross July 6 1913.
9 1887 Bull.
Soc.
Philom. 7 XI p. .39.
October 7.
Ir.
Charles Morris in the Chair.
Twentyone persons present.
The Publication Committee reported that since the last meeting papers under the following titles had been accepted for publication in the Proceedings  ''A revision of the species of the genus Nemobius Orthoptera Gryllidse found in North America north of the Isthmus of Panama by Morgan Hebard June 5.
''Reptiles collected by the Yale Peruvian Expedition of 1912 by Thomas Barbour June 23.
Two collections of Pleistocene fossils from the Isthmus of Panama by Amos P. Brown and Henry A. Pilsbry June 26.
A study of the species of the genus Dichopetala Orthoptera Tettigoniidse   by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard July 18.
Contributions to the synonymy of serpents in the family Elapidse by Joseph C. Thompson July 21.
New species of the genus Mohnia  by William Heah' Dall July 29.
Fishes from the Madeira River Brazil by Henry W. Fowler August 15.
The land and freshwater mollusks of the Stanford Expedition to Brazil by Fred Baker September 25.
A paper entitled Evolution of the color pattern in the microlepidopterous genus Lithocolletis  by Annette Frances Braun September 22 was accepted as a contribution to the Journal.
The deaths of the following members were announced William S. Grant June 18 1912.
Charles H. Cramp June 6 1913.
Philip P. Kelly June 13.
Lucy H. Baird June 19.
Horace F. Jayne July 8.
Orlando Crease July 30.
Anna Blanchard August 2.
The deaths of the following Correspondents were also announced Lord Avebury May 26 1913.
Philip L. Sclater June 27.
Joseph H. Corson July 24.
Igino Cocchi August 18.
516 proceedings of the academy of oct. October 21.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Ten persons present.
Clarence E. McClung Ph.D. and Edward B. Krumbhaar were elected members.
The following was ordered to be published FISHES FROM THE MADEIRA RIVER BRAZIL.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The fishes described in the present paper were collected by iMr.
Edgar A. Smith in 1912 and 1913.
They were secured at various localities along the Madeira River or in its tributaries during jVIr.
Smith's last trip to Brazil.
As natural history was but an incidental feature of the journey and opportunities for collecting being very hmited Mr. Smith was fortunate in securing an interesting collection.
The specimens are all small.
A number of the species appear to be undescribed or possibly hydrographical forms of their allies.
As very few species have previously been recorded from the Madeira River the present account is offered as a contribution to Brazilian ichthyology.
The Academy is indebted to Mr. Smith for the gift of the collection to its museum.
The accompanying figures are all drawn to scale the line given with each one expressing millimeters.
CHARACID.
CURIMATIX.E.
Curimatus cyprinoides Linnaeus.
Fig.
1.
Two examples 125 and 135 mm.
long from about 20 miles north of Porto Velho in the Madeira River October 1912.
Fig.
1.
Curimatus cpyrinoides Linnaeus.
Young.
Eighteen young examples of which one is figured from tributaries of the Madeira River near Porto Velho.
January and February 1913.
In color they are pale uniform brownish without spots or other markings.
The singular pectoral fin of these specimens first attracted my attention as it is composed of a rather long basal fleshy lobe surrounded by the rays which are given out from all sides except in front.
That these specimens are identical with the present species appears to me unquestionable.
This is of importance as two recently proposed genera are therefore very likel parallel cases.
I refer to Archecheir Eigenmann and Dermatocheir Durbin.
Archeicheir is thus doubtless a synonym of the earlier by page priority Poecilohrycon Eigenmann and Dermatocheir is synonymous with Hijphessobrycon Durbin.
Curimatus tigris sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Head 2 depth 2f  D. ii 8 A. ii 8 P. i 10 V. i 8 about 38 scales in median lateral series from shoulder to caudal base about 19 scales in transverse series between dorsal and ventral origins about 15 predorsal scales head width 2 in its length measured from mandible tip head depth at occiput If first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray If upper caudal lobe lyV least depth of caudal peduncle 2 length of pectoral 2f  ventral 2 snout 3f in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3 mouth width 3 maxillary 4 interorbital 3.
Body elongately ovoid well compressed predorsal slightly constricted postdorsal with slight median groove pre ventral rounded convexly and postventral constricted.
Body deepest at dorsal origin.
Caudal peduncle well compressed and measured from last anal ray base about long as deep.
Head large compressed broader above more or less flattened sides constricted below and profiles similar.
Snout nearly straight in profile convex over surface and length about f its width.
Eye large rounded high placed near first f in head.
Eyelid free not adiposelike.
Pupil moderate.
Mouth with short commissure broad opens superiorly and broadly in front.
Lips broad rather fleshy smooth.
Maxillary not very distinct scarcely free and extends back to hind nostril.
Each jaw with a row of small flexible weak conic teeth.
Mandible with broad rami slightly protrudes beyond snout tip elevated and swollen in mouth and fitting in corresponding large cavities in upper jaw on each side posteriorly.
Tongue not evident.
Nostrils together anterior simple pore and posterior in crescent both faUing close to eye near last fourth in 1913.1 519 snout length.
Interorbital broadlj convex.
Suborbital chain narrow and leaves cheek broadly exposed.
Preopercle with ridge nearly vertical.
Opercle large smooth.
Gillopening forward nearly opposite hind pupil edge.
No rakers.
Gillfilaments 1 in eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted slender and surface with rather narrow lengthwise groove.
Branchiostegals moderately long and slender.
Scales of more or less uniform size cycloid well exposed in longitudinal parallel series.
No axillary scaly flaps and no scales on bases of fins.
L. 1. onlj' slightly developed as 4 simple pores at shoulder.
Fig.
2.
 Curimatus ligris Fowler.
Type.
Dorsal inserted anteriorly or about midway between snout tip and end of adipose fin first branched ray longest and depressed fin reaches about If to caudal base.
Adipose fin small placed just behind anal base.
Anal inserted a little nearer ventral origin than caudal base first branched ray longest extends well beyond rest of fin or till opposite caudal base and lower edge of fin nearly straight.
Caudal moderate well forked with equal pointed lobes.
Pectoral with rather long fleshy base surrounded on all its free edges by rays of which upper a little longer than others.
Ventral inserted about midway between pectoral and anal origins and fin extends back I to anal.
Vent close in front of anal.
Color in alcohol largely pale brownish more or less uniform generally.
Back with about 14 lateral vertical dark or dusky streaks all narrower than their interspaces and last few broken up into spots.
Fins all pale.
Dorsal Avith large jetblack blotch anteriorly at basal half of fin and distal portion with three transverse pale dusky streaks uppermost terminal.
Anal with 3 transverse pale dusky streaks.
Iris slaty.
Length 30 mm.
Type No.
39156 A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
January or February 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also Nos.
39157 to 39186 A. N. S. P. same data paratypes.
A number of these show Head 2 to 2f  depth 2f to 3 D. ii 8 or II 9 A. ii 8 or ii 9 scales 38 to 40 in lateral series to caudal base and sometimes 1 or 2 more on latter 18 or 19 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins 12 to 16 predorsal scales snout 3f to 3f in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3i to 3 mouth width 3i to 3J interorbital 3i to 3 length 26 to 30 mm.
This species is apparently related to Curimatus vittatus Kner though that species is without the black dorsal blotch and has the scales much smaller 56.
Tiypt tiger with reference to the dark stripes on the back.
PROCHILODIN.E.
Prochilodus pterostigma sp.
nov.
Fig.
3.
Head 3f depth 3 D. iii 9 i A. iii 7 i P. i 12 V. i 7 scales 44 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter 7 scales above 1.
1. 6 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 5 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 16 predorsal scales head width IfV in its length head depth at occiput 1 snout 3 eye 3 mouth width 3 maxillary 4 interorbital 2f first branched dorsal ray lyV first branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  pectoral If ventral If.
Body moderately long and compressed deepest at dorsal origin back slightly elevated and edges all more or less convex.
Posterior half of predorsal with slight median keel extending to dorsal origin.
Upper and lower surfaces of caudal peduncle with slight median keel.
On each side of preventral a slight or obsolete keel extending to origin of fin.
Caudal peduncle moderately compressed least depth about 1 its length.
Head moderate compressed lower profile a little more inclined and convex in front than upper and nearly level sides not con1 Curimatus Anodus mltatus Kner Denk.
Ak.
Wiss. Wien XVII 18.5.5 p. 139 PI.
1 fig.
1.
Rio Guapore and Rio Negro.
stricted above or below so that these surfaces equally broad and convex.
Snout convex over surface and in profile length about f its width and as viewed from above broadly convex.
Eye large rounded high centre falls about first f in head.
Pupil large.
Adipose eyelid large and covers good portion of eye.
Mouth broadly transverse with shallow horizontal commissure extending about opposite front nostril.
Snout tip protrudes well beyond upper jaw edge.
Jaw edges rather trenchant cartilaginous firm and without lips.
No teeth.
Mandible shallow broad with slight symphyseal knob fitting in depression in upper jaw.
Inner buccal folds narrow.
Tongue broad as transverse cartilaginous truncate keel in front Prochilodus pterostigma Fowler.
Type.
otherwise fleshy or thick and its extent ill defined.
Maxillary small extends down obliquely in short fleshy point below until opposite front nostril.
Nostrils together anterior simple pore and posterior exposed in crescent placed at last third in snout length.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Suborbitals broad well developed infraorbital entirely covering cheek and its surface with a few obsolete striae.
Four large mucous tubes on preopercle and its hind edge very slightly inclined back.
Opercle large with a few obsolete radiating striae.
Occipital fontanel quite long extends from just behind posterior nostrils to end of occipital process and widens gradually from in front backward its entire length.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite posterior edge of pupil.
Rakers about 1020
short weak points uniform in 35 length and at least  or more in filaments latter If in eye.
Isthmus broadly convex.
Branchiostegals large subequal.
Scales moderately large well exposed edges entire of mostly uniform size and disposed in series parallel with 1.
1.
Striae on scales concentric or obscure.
Scales on caudal base slightly smaller than elsewhere.
Ventral with free pointed axillary scaly flap its length about 3 in fin.
Front base of adipose fin scaled.
L. 1. complete midway along side of body very slightly curved.
Tubes simple anteriorly less exposed than behind where they reach over first half of scale exposure at least.
Dorsal origin slightly nearer snout tip than caudal base first branched ray longest extends back beyond all of others though fin depressed back reaches a little less than half way to caudal base.
Adipose fin inserted slightly nearer caudal base than last dorsal ray base texture of fin somewhat raylike above.
Anal inserted slightly before adipose fin origin first branched ray longest and depressed fin reaches back  to caudal base its lower or hind edge slightly emarginate.
Caudal well forked with long slender pointed and equal lobes longer than head.
Pectoral low rather small upper rays longest and depressed fin reaches f to ventral origin.
Ventral inserted a little nearer pectoral than anal origin and depressed fin reaches f to anal.
Vent placed nearly opposite tips of depressed ventrals or well before anal origin.
Color in alcohol pale grayishbrown generally lower surface scarcely paler.
A narrow underlaid pale slaty streak begins at shoulder close over or one scale above 1.
1. extends concurrently with 1.
1. till after dorsal fin when it falls closer so that 1.
1. marks rest of its lower boundary and on caudal base it forms small dusky spot which rather obscure and about size of pupil.
Dusky caudal spot or lateral streak not reflected out on median caudal rays.
At median branched dorsal rays basally a dusky blotch about size of pupil.
No humeral blotch.
Fins otherwise than mentioned pale grayish lower ones slightly paler.
Iris deep slaty.
Length 85 mm.
Type No.
39187 A. N. S. P. Madeira River about twenty miles north of Porto Velho Brazil.
October 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Only the type known.
Characteristic of this species is the dark spot at the base of the dorsal fin medianly spot at caudal base medianly and the underlaid lateral streak.
In these respects it differs from almost all the species of the genus.
Ihepov fin ntYJ.a spot with reference to the spots on the dorsal and caudal fins.
1913.
523 NANNOSTOMIX.E.
Nannostomus stigmasemion sp.
nov.
Fig.
4.
Head 3 depth 3 D. ii 9 A. ii 8 P. i 10
 V. i 7
 scales 20 in median lateral series from shoulder to caudal base 6 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins 14 predorsal scales head width about If its length head depth at occiput If depressed dorsal fin 1 depressed anal fin If least depth of caudal peduncle 2f caudal fin lyV pectoral 1 ventral If snout 4j in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2 mouth width about 8 interorbital about 2f .
Body moderately long well compressed fusiform with greatest depth about ventral origin and edges all convexly rounded.
Caudal peduncle compressed moderate and least depth about If in its length.
Fig.
4.
 Nannostomus stigmascnnon Fowler.
Type.
Head rather robust conic profiles more or less similar and convex sides not constricted above or below these surfaces also widely convex.
Snout short nearly triangular as viewed from above though with rounded tip and length less than width.
Eye large slightly ellipsoid anterior without adipose or free eyelids.
As seen from below eyes quite lateral protrude out convexly on each side of head area across mandible appearing much narrower than interorbital space.
Mouth small terminally superior with short commissure.
Teeth not evident.
Lips apparently not free though fleshy.
Mandible protudes slightly in front beyond snout tip.
moderate and with rami but little elevated inside mouth.
Iaxillary oblique well inclined reaches back nearly opposite front eye edge.
Nostrils small inconspicuous on upper sides of snout.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Cheek without distinct suborbitals.
Preopercle edge nearly vertical.
Opercle rather large smooth.
Slight fontanel at anterior junctions of parietals with frontals medianly.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite preopercle edge.
Rakers moderate in number lanceolate on both branches of gillarch and a little shorter than filaments.
Gillfilaments about  of eye.
Gillmembranes united form free fold across isthmus which convex and constricted.
Scales large cjcloid broadly exposed in nearly even longitudinal series apparently' without striae and of nearly uniform size.
No scales on fins no 1.
1. and no axillary scaly flaps.
Dorsal inserted posteriorly its origin a little nearer caudal base than hind edge of eye first branched ray longest and depressed fin extends If to caudal base.
No adipose fin.
Caudal forked lobes pointed free and equal.
Anal inserted below last branched dorsal rays basally first branched ray longest and depressed fin extends 1 to caudal base.
Pectoral low rounded moderate and reaches 14 to ventral.
Ventral inserted well before dorsal or nearly midway between pectoral and anal origins fin extends 1 to anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol pale strawbrown back slightly dusted with minute dark dots mostly formed closer along edges of scales above.
Lower surface of body immaculate.
Including mandible tip then over preorbital across iris preopercle and lower side medianly to bases of median inferior caudal rays a blackish band made up of closeset dusky dots.
This band narrow on head though widens over costal region to contract slightly along caudal peduncle laterally.
On caudal base dark lateral band reflected out on some of rays.
Iris slaty and orbital boundaries well defined on lower surface of head where their dark color strongly contrasts with white of mandible.
Dorsal with large conspicuous black blotch extends vertically over fin from upper front edge to near bases of last branched rays.
Except for markings noted above fins otherwise pale or whitish.
Length 15 mm.
Type No.
39188 A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
January or February 1913.
Edgar A Smith.
This species differs from all of the others in the genus in the black dorsal blotch.
Only the type known.
IriyiJ.a spot Trjiitwv banner with reference to the dark blotch on the dorsal fin.
1913.1 525 Poecilobrycon digrammus sp.
nov.
Fig.
5.
Head 3f  depth 4 D. ii 9 A. ii 9 P. i 9 V. i 6 scales 25 in median lateral series from gillopening to caudal base 6 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins 10 predorsal scales head width If in its length head depth at occiput If snout 3f  eye 3 mouth .width 4j interorbital 3 first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 3 upper caudal lobe 1 pectoral 1 ventral If.
Body elongate slender fusiform moderately compressed deepest at ventral origin edges all convex and profiles similar.
Caudal peduncle well compressed rather long and least depth 2x in its length measured from last branched anal ray base.
Fig.
5.
 PoEcilohnjcon digrammus Fowler.
Tpe.
Head conic elongate profiles similar broadly depressed above convex sides slightly constricted below.
Snout conic depressed tip obtuse as seen from above and length about f its basal width.
Eye large rounded or slightly ellipsoid placed slightly anterior with free edge and no adipose eyelid.
Pupil rounded moderatehlarge.
Mouth small terminal transverse with very short commissure.
Lips thin.
Maxillary small inclined not reaching back to anterior nostril.
Teeth uniserial in jaws compressed broad with five serrae or points equally along edge.
Mandible shallow even with snout tip when closed broad.
Nostrils well separated anterior simple small pore near first f in snout length and posterior larger simple pore close before upper eye edge.
Interorbital broad and slightly convex.
Preorbital large.
Infraorbitals and postorbital well developed cover cheek entirely though firstnamed mostly inclined inferiorly.
Edge of preopercle behind slightly inclined anteriorly.
Opercle large and smooth.
Upper surface of head smooth broad parietals without fontanel.
Gillopening extends forward slightly before hind eye edge though not so far as hind pupil edge.
Rakers moderate in number lanceolate a little shorter than filaments and latter about 2 in eye.
Isthmus broad constricted in front and surface convex.
Branchiostegals large subequal.
Scales large well exposed of nearly uniform size striae not evident and arranged in even longitudinal series.
No scales on fins except a few on caudal base.
No 1.
1. and no axillary scaly flaps.
Dorsal inserted slightly nearer caudal base than snout tip first ranched ray longest and depressed fin extends 2j to caudal base.
Adipose fin small inserted near last third in space between last branched dorsal ray base and caudal bae its length about 2f in eye.
Anal inserted well behind dorsal base first branched ray longest and depressed fin extending slightly less than half way to caudal base.
Caudal moderate well forked with equal pointed lobes.
Pectoral low upper rays longest and fin extends about If to ventral.
Ventral origin a little before dorsal or about midway between pectoral and anal origins fin large and reaches anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely brownish on back and upper surface of body.
Lower surface of body silverywhite and this color strongly contrasted with color of back by blackish lengthwise streak or band extending from snout and mandible tips through eyes along side a little low to inferior median caudal rays.
Through most of its course blackish lateral band defines middle of side by its upper boundary.
At base of last anal ray it continues out on distal portion of same in contrast with rest of fin and also covers good portion of lower caudal peduncle side.
Upper side of back with dusky streak extending from posterior supraorbital region to bases of uppermost lranched caudal rays and its width much narrower than lower band.
Sloping obliquely from just before dorsal origin toward basal region of pectoral a broad area of minute dusky clots.
Above anal base another similar area vertically from back to lower dark band though not extending below.
Fins all pale or grayish to whitish dorsal slightly dusky toward apex.
Iris slaty.
Length 25 mm.
Type No.
39189 A. N. S. P. Madeira River about 200 miles east of W. Long.
62 20' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also Nos.
39190 to 39192 A. N. S. P. paratypes.
From tributary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
January February 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Head 3 to 3f  depth 4 to 4f  D. II 8 or II 9 A. ii 8 or ii 9 scales in median lateral series from shoulder to caudal base 24 or 25 and usually 1 or 2 more on latter 6 or 7 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins 10 predorsal scales snout 3 to 3 in head eye 2f to 3 mouth width 4i to 4 interorbital 2f to 3 length 21 to 26 mm.
This species is related to Poecilobrijcon harrisoni Eigenmann but differs in the presence of a dark dorsolateral lengthwise streak and in the same way P. erythrurus Eigenmann and P. trifasciatus Steindachner will also be found to differ.
fs two ypai'i'i line with reference to the two dark lengthwise streaks.
APHYOCH ARACIN.
Odontostilbe madeirae sp.
nov.
Fig.
0.
Head 3 depth 2 D. iii 9 A. iii 20 i P. i 11 V. i 7 scales 35 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter 6 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin 4 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 5 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 11 predorsal scales head width 2 in its length head depth at occiput Ii snout 4 eye 3 maxillary 3 interorbital 3 first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 upper caudal lobe 1 pectoral  ventral If.
Body moderately elongate compressed greatest depth at dorsal origin contour elongately ovoid edges all convexly rounded with slight median keel just before dorsal or extending nearly for last half in predorsal area.
Caudal peduncle compressed and least depth slightly less than its length.
Head moderate compressed with similar profiles and flattened sides scarcely constricted below.
Snout convex over surface and in profile length  its width.
Eye large rounded or but slightly ellipsoid its centre near first f in head.
Pupil large.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth broadly terminal commissure short and jaws rather thin.
Lips thin little developed.
Maxillary free oblique reaches back opposite front edge of eye.
Teeth uniserial in jaws well compressed broad edges of each with seven denticles of which median largest.
Maxillary with two welldeveloped similar teeth.
Mandible rather broad shallow and rami slightly elevated in mouth.
Tongue broad depressed smooth rounded and 528 Oct. free in front.
Nostrils together near last f in snout length anterior simple pore and posterior exposed in crescent.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Suborbitals well developed entirely covering cheek and smooth.
Hind preopercle edge slightly inclined back.
Opercle large smooth and with broad cutaneous edge to gillcover.
Parietal fontanel rather broad and extends to occiput from frontals.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite first third in eye.
Rakers about 1015 lanceolate slender about f length of filaments and latter about 1 in eye.
Isthmus narrow constricted in front surface convex.
Branchiostegals subequally large moderate.
Fig.
Q.dontostilbe madeiroe Fowler.
Type.
Scales large all well exposed in lengthwise series parallel with I.
1. each with few radiating striae and of mostly uniform size.
Caudal base with scales smaller than elsewhere.
A few scales basally along front of anal.
Free pointed axillary scaly ventral flap and its length nearly 3 in fin.
L. 1. complete slightly inferior along sides though nearly straight.
Tubes simple well exposed though extending about half way over exposures of scales.
Dorsal inserted nearly midway between snout tip and hind edge of adipose fin first branched ray longest and fin reaches If to caudal base.
Adipose fin nearly equals eye in length inserted about last I in space between last dorsal ray base and caudal base.
Caudal rather large well forked and pointed lobes equal.
Anal inserted close behind dorsal base first branched ray longest extends 1 to caudal base and lower edge emarginate.
Pectoral low pointed upper rays longest and fin extends about  to ventral.
Ventral inserted slightly behind dorsal origin and extends to anal origin.
Vent formed at last fourth in space between ventral and anal origins.
Color in alcohol pale brownish paler or more whitish below.
Scales on back with their edges rather broadly dusted with dusky dots.
Also a patch of dusky dots above base of anal.
Upper surface of head with dusky dots lower surface silvery or whitish.
Iris largely silvery though pupil and broad vertical transverse bar slaty to dusky.
Concurrent with vertebral axis a narrow pale dusky line extends from behind shoulder widens a little over anal then contracts and .
ends medianly at caudal base.
Latter with large black rounded spot about size of eye.
Fins otherwise all pale or grayish.
Peritoneum shows through walls of abdomen as whitish though posterior region showing cluster of dusky dots on costal region posteriorly and belly anteriorly.
Length 41 mm.
Type No.
39193 A. N. S. P. Tributary of Rio Madeira near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also Nos.
39194 to 39209 A. N. S. P. paratypes same data.
Head 3 to 3f  depth 2 to 3 D. in 8 i or iii 9 i A. in 21 i to III 23 i scales 32 to 34 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 2 or 3 more on latter 6 scales above 1.
1. 4 or 5 scales below 1.
1. 11 or 12 predorsal scales snout 3 to 4 in head eye 2 to 3 maxillary 3 to 4 interorbital 2t to 3 length 33 to 43 mm.
This species differs from Odontostilbe fugitiva Cope in its deeper body and absence of the darkedged silver lateral band.
From the other known species it differs in coloration and proportions.
Named for the Madeira River.
Odontostilbe drepanon sp.
nov.
Fig.
7.
Head 3i depth 3 D. ii 8 A. in 21 i P. i 11 V. i 7 scales 35 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 3 more on latter 6 scales above 1.
1. 5 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 6 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 9 predorsal scales to occipital process head width 2 its length head depth at occiput U snout 3 eye 3 maxillary 3 interorbital 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f third simple anal ray 1 pectoral 1 ventral 1.
Body elongate well compressed contour elongately ellipsoid deepest at dorsal origin lower profile anteriorly a little more convex than upper postventral slightly trenchant and other edges convexly 530 Oct. rounded.
Caudal peduncle well compressed length about equals its least depth.
Head moderate compressed profiles similar and flattened sides scarcely constricted below.
Snout convex over surface and in profile length f its width.
Eye rounded or slightly ellipsoid scarcely elevated and its centre falls at first f in head.
Pupil moderate vertically ellipsoid.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth terminal broad with short commissure.
Lips moderately fleshy firm.
Maxillary well inclined free short not extending back to front eye edge.
Teeth uniserial in jaws upper more concealed by lips and each one Fig.
7.
 Odonlodilbe drepanon Fowler.
Type.
crenulated or with five to seven points along edge.
Mandibular teeth a little larger.
Maxillary with two rather inconspicuous teeth basally.
Inner buccal folds moderate.
Tongue depressed rounded and free in front.
Mandible shallow included within upper jaw when closed so that latter slightly projects and rami not elevated inside mouth.
Nostrils large together close before eye anterior simple pore and posterior larger crescent.
Interorbital evenl' convex.
Suborbitals well developed smooth and large infraorbital completely covers cheek.
Hind preopercle edge nearly vertical.
Opercle large deep with several weak striae and upper hind edge moderately emarginated.
Occipital fontanel extends from hind division of froiitals to occipital process moderately broad.
Occipital process rather short and narrowly triangular.
Gillopening extends forwards opposite front edge of pupil.
Rakers about 6  12 slender lanceolate about f length of filaments and latter If in eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted its surface largely convex.
Branchiostegals rather long subequal.
Scales moderate well exposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. cycloid and of mostly uniform size.
Caudal base covered with small scales.
Few scales along anterior base of anal disposed in short row.
Ventral with free axillary pointed scaly flap 5 length of fin.
L. 1. complete decurved slightly below middle in greatest depth and extending a little low along side of caudal peduncle to middle of caudal base.
Tubes simple and each one extends over scale exposure well anteriorly though not nearly to its hind edge.
Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and hind edge of adipose fin third simple ray prolonged and filamentous and extends back nearly to origin of adipose fin.
Adipose fin rather large slightly less than eye in length and inserted near last third in space etween dorsal origin and caudal base.
Caudal well forked a little longer than head pointed lobes about equal.
Anal inserted Ijehind dorsal base third simple ray longest from which they gradually diminish posteriorly though form slight lobe in front.
Pectoral low slender pointed reaches ventral.
Latter inserted before dorsal or much nearer anal than pectoral origin and first ray produced into a filament to extend back beyond front of anal.
Yent close in front of anal.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally below paler or whitish.
Back with minute dusky dots mostly arranged along edges of scales.
A rather narrow underlaid silvery lateral streak from shoulder to caudal base.
Caudal base covered with rather large dusky dots to form pale dusky blotch a little larger than eye and not reflected on caudal medianly.
Head dusky above sides and below silvery to whitish.
Jaws pale.
Iris whitish slaty above and below.
No dark humeral blotch.
Fins all pale or whitish.
Peritoneum shows through abdominal walls as pale slaty and on preventral and postventral region pale with rather large rounded dusky closeset dots.
Length 40 mm.
Type No.
39210 A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also Nos.
39211 to 39.216 paratypes same data.
Head 3 to 31 depth 3i to 3 D. iii 9 A. iv 20 i to iv 23 i scales 32 to 35 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 2 or 3 more on latter 6 scales above 1.
1. 5 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 11 or 12 predorsal scales snout 3 to 4 in head eye 3 to 3 maxillary 3i to 3f  interorbital  to 3 length 35 to 39 mm.
Closely related to Odontostilbe fugitiva Copewith which it agrees in many characters.
It appears to differ however in the prolonged dorsal and paired fins.
Apin'avw curved scimetar with reference to the long curved simple rays of the dorsal and ventral fins.
Aphyooharax avary sp.
nov.
Fig.
8.
Avary.
Head 3 depth 4 D. iii 9 i A. iii 14 i P. i 13 V. i 7 scales 38 in median lateral series to caudal base and 4 more on latter 11 tubes in 1.
1. 11 scales transversely between dorsal origin and ventral origin 19 predorsal scales head width If its depth head depth at occiput If first branched dorsal ray l first branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral  ventral If snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3f  maxillary 3 interorbital 2f.
Body elongate rather slender compressed fusiform greatest depth at dorsal origin and edges mostly evenly convex except short and obsolete median keel in posterior half of predorsal and another in same region of preventral.
Caudal peduncle well compressed its least depth  in its length.
Head small profiles similarly convex compressed and flattened sides but slightly constricted below.
Snout short convex over surface and in profile and its length about f its width.
Eye large rounded high and its centre about first f in head.
Pupil large rounded.
Eyelid free and not adiposelike.
Mouth moderate broad.
Lips fleshy firm little free.
Maxillary long slender free well inclined and reaches back opposite front pupil edge.
Teeth in jaws small rather slender conic uniserial and each usually with very small or obsolete pointed basal cusp.
Maxillary with about 4 more or less concealed small uniform simple conic teeth along its upper front edge.
Tongue moderately long rather pointed depressed free in front.
Inner buccal folds rather narrow.
Mandible moderately protruded beyond snout tip in front rather shallow and rami but little elevated inside mouth.
Nostrils large together within last half of snout length anterior simple pore and posterior  Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc Phila. XI 1871 p. 566 fig.
teeth.
Pebas Ecuador.
1913.
533 exposed in crescent.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Preorbital small narrow.
Infraorbital and postorbital large smooth completel' cover cheek.
Hind preopercle edge inclined a little forward.
Opercle rather large smooth.
Parietal fontanel rather well developed extends from hind frontal fusion to occiput.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite first third in eye.
Rakers about 5  11 slender lanceolate about 1 in filaments and latter If in eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted with groove in front longitudinally and convex behind.
Branchiostegals robust rather long subequal.
Scales moderate all well exposed disposed in nearly even longiFig.
8.
 Aphyocharax avary Fowler.
Type.
tudinal series each with a few radiating striae and of nearly uniform size.
On caudal base scales become little smaller than on trunk.
Pectoral and ventral each with pointed free axillary scaly flap former short and latter nearly  length of fin.
A few scales form basal series to anterior anal rays.
L. 1. incomplete only extends anteriorly from shoulder nearly opposite ventral origin.
Tubes simple extend over first half in scale exposures.
Dorsal origin midway between hind nostril and caudal base first branched ray longest and fin extends half way to caudal base.
Adipose fin inserted about last third in space between dorsal origin and caudal base its length little less than eye.
Anal inserted behind dorsal base first branched ray longest and extends about half way to caudal base.
Caudal well forked lobes pointed and subequal.
Pectoral pointed upper rays longest and fin extends  to ventral.
Latter inserted well before dorsal origin and fin extends  to anal.
Vent placed about opposite middle in depressed ventral length.
Color in alcohol pale brownish nearly uniform.
Back with edges of scales dusted with dusky dots also lower sides above anal and along lower surface of caudal peduncle only separated by silvery lateral band which extends from shoulder to caudal base medianly.
A dusky vertical ellipsoid blotch embracing third fourth and fifth scales of 1.
1. and its greater extent above same.
Dorsal with a somewhat irregular transverse or horizontal median streak made up of dusky dots.
Caudal with median rays base and edges of rays sprinkled with minute dusky dots.
Anal broadly whitish in front rest of fin sprinkled with dusky dots and latter forming dark lower edge to fin.
Fins otherwise pale or whitish.
Head Avith dusky dots above sides and below whitish.
Iris slaty with dusky shade above and below.
Length 54 mm.
Type No.
39217 A. N. S. P. Madeira River about 200 miles east of Long.
62 20' W. Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Only the type known.
This species is related to Aphyocharax eques Steindachner but differs in the absence of the black dorsal blotch.
Avary the native name.
PKIONOBRAMA g. n. nov.
Type Prionohrama madeirce.
Body strongly compressed elongately ovoid.
Head small compressed.
Snout short convex rather conic.
Eye large not elevated without adipose eyelid.
Mouth superiorly terminal opens level with upper edge of eye short in commissure broad.
Teeth uniserial simple rather short uniform conic in both jaws.
Entire edge of maxillary toothed.
Maxillary well inclined reaches past front of eye.
Interorbital convex.
Large fontanel from frontals to occipital process.
Gillrakers moderate in number slender longer than filaments.
Scales rather small cycloid.
Caudal scaly basally.
Anal with basal scales.
 1. incomplete.
Dorsal inserted little posterior.
Adipose fin slender.
Caudal forked.
Anal inserted opposite dorsal origin third simple ray prolonged.
Pectoral and  Denk.
Ak.
Wiss. Wien XLVI 1883 p. .37.
Obidos and Villa Bella.
ventral pointed.
Color largely pale.
Obscure or pale humeral blotch.
No caudal blotch.
One species in the Madeira River basin.
This genus appears allied to Holoshesthes Eigenmann and Holoprion Eigenmann in the completely denticulated maxillary.
It differs however in the simple conic teeth and more numerous anal rays.
From Holoshesthes it differs in the incomplete 1.
1.
Coelurichthys Ribeiro I have been unable to consult.
Ilpcw saw za bream in allusion to the superficial resemblance to the bream.
Prionobrama madeirae sp.
nov.
Fig.
9.
Head 4 depth 3 D. ii 8 iii 32 i P. i 12 V. i 7 scales 39 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 4 more on latter 10 tubes in 1.
1. 12 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins 15 scales before dorsal to occipital process head width 2 in its length head depth at occiput 2 mandible 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 1 ventral 1 snout 3 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3 maxillary 2 interorbital 3.
Body well compressed elongate ovoid in contour deepest at dorsal origin lower profile a little more evenly convex than upper postventral trenchant and other edges convexly rounded.
Caudal peduncle well compressed its length about f its least depth.
Head rather small compressed upper profile nearly straight and much less inclined than more convex lower and flattened sides but slightly constricted below.
Snout convex over surface and anteriorly in profile and its length about f its width.
Eye large rounded not elevated its centre about first f in head.
Pupil rather large vertically ellipsoid.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth superiorly terminal broad with short commissure.
Lips firm.
Maxillary free rather slender well inclined beyond front eye edge though not to that of pupil.
Teeth uniserial conic simple small nearly uniform.
In upper jaw teeth continuous along edge of maxillary to its lower extremity.
Mandibular teeth slightly larger and recurved at symphysis also at their anterior termination along sides of mandibular rami and beyond latter point teeth uniformly small and inconspicuous if present.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue depressed free and rather pointed in front.
Mandible convex over surface protrudes slightly and rami not elevated inside mouth.
Nostrils together large level with upper eye edge anterior simple pore and posterior wide crescent.
Interorbital evenly convex.
Suborbitals smooth and large infraorbital completely covers cheek.
Hind 536 Oct. preopercle edge vertical.
Opercle smooth deep upper posterior margin slightly emarginate.
Occipital fontanel well developed from between frontals posteriorly to occipital process.
Latter short forms nearly equilateral triangle.
Gillopening extends forward but slightly behind front edge of eye before that of pupil.
Rakers about 5  12 slender elongately lanceolate a little longer than filaments or about 1 in eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted in front elongate surface anteriorly with groove and posteriorly convex.
Branchiostegals moderate subequal.
Scales moderately small well exposed in longitudinal series Fig.
9.
 Prionohrama madeirce Fowler.
Type.
cycloid of nearly uniform size.
Caudal scaled basally.
Anal with basal scaly sheath to greater anterior portion of fin.
Free pointed axillary ventral scaly flap nearly I length of fin.
L. 1. incomplete begins at.
shoulder and extends over only ten consecutive scales.
Tubes simple and each only about half way over scale exposure anteriorly.
Dorsal origin about midway between eye centre and caudal base first branched ray longest and depressed fin extends If to caudal base.
Adipose fin slender a little shorter than eye inserted about last 7 in space between dorsal origin and caudal base.
Anal origin opposite that of dorsal third simple ray prolonged into a filament SO that it is but little shorter than entire anal basis anterior branched rays soon sloping down and greater part of fin low.
Caudal longer than head well forked lobes pointed and equal.
Pectoral large low broad upper rays longest and fin extends a little beyond ventral base.
Ventral inserted nearer anal than pectoral also extends back a little beyond front of former.
Yent close behind ventral roots remote from anal.
Color in alcohol pale lrownish lower surface scarcely paler.
Back and surface of trunk above anal base finely punctate with minute dusky dots.
Humeral region rather narrow lateral streak medianly abdomen and lower surface of head silverywhite.
Head brownish above.
Iris whitish pupil slaty.
A very pale humeral blotch vertically ovoid and its length in vertical diameter about equals that of eye.
No caudal blotch.
Fins all pale.
Length .53 mm.
Type No.
39218 A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also No.
39219 A. N. S. P. paratype same data.
Head 4 depth 3 D. ii 8 A. iii 32 i scales 38 in lateral series to caudal base and 3 more on latter 11 tubes in 1.
1. 12 scales in transverse series between dorsal and anal origins 15 scales before dorsal to occipital process snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3 maxillary 2 interorbital 3 length 46 mm.
Named for the Madeira River.
TETRAGONOPTERIX.E.
Ctenobrycon rhabdops sp.
nov.
Fig.
10.
Head 3f depth 2 D. m 9 i A. iv 46 i P. i 15 V. i 7 scales 49 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter 12 scales above 1.
1. 13 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 13 predorsal scales to occipital process head width 1 in its length head depth at occiput lyV mandible 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 first branched anal ray 1 pectoral lyV ventral 1 snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2 maxillary 2f  interorbital 2.
Body well compressed general contour deeplj ovoid with greatest depth at dorsal origin upper anterior profile concaveconvex and lower profile rather evenly convex.
Predorsal and post ventral with slight median keels body edges otherwise evenly convex.
Caudal peduncle compressed about long as deep.
Head small lower profile a little more inclined than upper and nearly flattened sides but slightly constricted towards lower surface.
36 538 Oct. Snout short convex in profile and over surface its length about half its width.
Eye large ellipsoid but little elevated and centre near first third in head.
Pupil moderate rounded.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth broad with short commissure superiorly terminal.
Maxillary almost vertical not quite extended to eye or opposite lower edge of eye and free.
Lips fleshy upper firm lower thicker and more free.
Teeth in upper jaw biserial 8 in each series anterior smaller and tricuspid though in an even row parallel Fig.
10.
 Ctenobrycon rhabdops Fowler.
Type.
with posterior and latter larger and mosth' quincuspid No maxillary teeth.
Mandibular teeth a single series of 8 symphyseal pair largest with others moderately graduated smaller on each side posteriorly larger quindentate and smaller tridentate.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue depressed rather broad and smooth pointed and free in front.
Mandible strong protrudes slightly in front and rami little elevated inside mouth.
Nostrils together rather large placed within last half of snout length close before eyes above anterior simple pore and posterior larger crescentic slit.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Preorbital small and infraorbital very large completely covers cheek its surface smooth.
Hind preopercle edge bent well forward.
Opercle deep smooth.
Top of head with rather large fontanel extending from interorbital space well back within occipital process.
Last reaches nearl to dorsal origin.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite front eye edge.
Rakers about 8  12 slender lanceolate about f length of filaments and latter about I of eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted in front with slight median groove and convex over surface behind.
Branchiostegals moderately long subequal.
Scales slightly ctenoid small moderately imbricated disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. and of mostly uniform size.
Along predorsal ridge on trunk along anal base and on caudal base scales all slightly smaller.
A row of one or two small scales extends basally along anal its entire length.
Scales on breast large as those on costal region.
Each scale on body with several radiating striae.
Scales extend completely over body edges.
Broad free axillary pectoral scale and pointed free axillary ventral scaly flap nearly 3 in fin.
L. 1. complete very slightly decurved so that largely median though extends a little low along side of caudal peduncle to caudal base.
Tubes simple all well exposed though not quite reaching edges of scales.
Dorsal origin about midway between mandible tip and hind edge of adipose fin first branched ray longest and a little longer than head and depressed fin reaches about f to adipose fin.
Origin of adipose fin near last third in space between origin of dorsal and caudal base fin about U in eye.
Anal origin slightly before that of dorsal anterior rays a little higher than others and edge of fin nearly straight its long base but slightly curved.
Caudal moderate well forked lobes pointed and lower slightly longer both a little longer than head.
Pectoral low upper rays longest and depressed tip falls slightly before dorsal origin.
Ventral low inserted nearly midway between pectoral and dorsal origins and extends back beyond front anal ray bases.
Vent close in front of anal.
Color in alcohol pale brownish almost everywhere except on abdomen below and lower surface of head dusted with minute dusky dots.
Edge of back and upper surface of head dusky.
A narrow underlaid silvery line or streak extends from shoulder to median caudal base and posteriorly in its course becoming plumbeous or leaden.
Third and fourth scales of I. I. crossed by deep dark blotch above extending well up above head in profile and below a little over half way towards base of pectoral fin so that it appears inchned forward.
It is made up of crowded dusky or blackish dots.
Behind and in front a pale or whitish area more extensive and vaguely defined.
Blackish blotch largely vertical embraces caudal base.
Iris whitish though marked with broad slatydusky vertical streak.
Fins all pale marked with minute dusky dots.
Belly sides and lower surface of head silverywhite.
Length 56 mm.
Type No.
39220 A. N. S. P. Igarape de Candelaria about two miles from the Madeira River into which it empties in Lat.
S. 8 45' Long.
W. 63 54' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also Nos.
39221 to 39223 A. N. S. P. paratypes same data.
Head 3 to 3 depth 2 D. iii 8 i or iii 9 i A. iv 43 i to iv 46 i scales 47 or 48 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter 12 or 13 scales above 1.
1. 13 or 14 scales below 1.
1. 13 or 14 predorsal scales snout 3f to 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2f to 2f  maxillary 2f to 3 interorbital 2 to 2 length 51 or 52 mm.
This species is apparently related to Ctenobnjcon alleni Eigenmann and Ward but that species differs in having a more curved or undulated predorsal profile and much fewer anal rays 4041.
The figure is from a very unsatisfactory photograph and in no way except possibly the general profile portrays the many characters desired but omitted in the brief description.
Characteristic of the present species is the dark vertical streak through the eye.
'a
5o9 streak p eye.
Moenkhausia lepidura madeirae subsp.
nov.
Fig.
11.
Head 3f depth 3f'D.
iii 9 A. iv 19 i P. i 14 V. i 7 scales 34 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 3 more on latter 6 scales above 1.
1. 4 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 4 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 13 predorsal scales 11 to occipital process head width 1 its length head depth at occiput Ij mandible 2 first branched dorsal ray lyV first branched anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  pectoral 1 ventral If snout 3f in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2f  maxillary 2 interorbital 3. .
Body elongate compressed with fusiform contour deepest at dorsal origin profiles alike and a slight median predorsal ridge other edges rounded convexly.
Caudal peduncle compressed about long as deep.
Head moderately small compressed profiles similar and flattened  Tetragonopterus alleni Eigenmann and Ward Ann.
Carnegie Miis. IV 1907 p. 126 PI.
40 fig.
2.
Corumba Rio Otuquis Ascuncion Paraguay.
1913.
541 sides but slightly constricted below.
Snout convex in profile and over surface length about  its width.
Eye large round a little high centre falls about first f in head.
Pupil rather large.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth terminal broad commissure short.
Lips fleshy upper firm lower thick and more free Maxillary well inclined rather long or reaches beyond front eye edge nearly to that of pupil and well exposed.
Upper teeth biserial 8 teeth in each series those in inner series largest and all quindentate.
No maxillary teeth.
Mandibular teeth uniserial quindentate largest at symphysis and 8 enlarged ones in front of jaw.
Along sides of Fig.
11.
 Mcenkhausia lepidura madeirce Fowler.
Type.
rami a single series of small conic simple uniform teeth all much lower than anterior ones.
Inner buccal folds broad especially upper.
Tongue broad depressed rounded and free in front.
Mandible strong slightly protrudes and rather shallow rami of about even and moderate elevation inside mouth.
Nostrils together placed close before eye behind middle in snout length anterior simple pore and posterior exposed in larger crescent.
Interorbital rather broadly convex.
Preorbital narrow.
Infraorbital broad and not entirely covering cheek but leaving very narrow naked strip along ridge of preopercle.
Hind preopercle edge vertical.
Opercle deep and like suborbitals smooth.
Fontanel on top of head large broad extends from front interorbital region back till within occipital process.
Latter extends  of space to dorsal origin.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite front edge of pupil.
Rakers about 8  16 slender lanceolate pointed a little shorter than filaments and latter about 2 in eye.
Is'thmus narrowly constricted with short median groove in front and posterior portion convex.
Branchiostegals moderate subequal.
Scales moderate cycloid rather well exposed each with several radiating striae disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. and in size mostly uniform.
Caudal over greater basal portion covered with small scales though medianly scarcely smaller than on side of body.
Several scales form slight sheath at base of anal anteriorly.
Ventral axil with free pointed scaly flap about 3 in fin.
Scales completely pass over edges of body.
L. 1. complete slightly decurved until falling f in greatest body depth and extends a little low along side of caudal peduncle to caudal base.
Tubes simple and extend well over scales though not quite to their hind edges.
Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base first branched ray longest and depressed fin extending slightly over half way to base of caudal.
Adipose fin slightly behind last third in space between dorsal origin and caudal base its length about  of eye.
Anal inserted slightly behind dorsal base first branched ray longest so that anterior fin elevated in distinct lobe.
Caudal well forked rather broad and pointed lobes about equal.
Pectoral low pointed upper rays longest and when depressed fall a little short of ventral.
Ventral inserted a little before dorsal and extends  to anal.
Vent a little behind last third in postventral region.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally paler or more whitish below as on lower sides and under surface of head and abdomen.
Edges of scales on back all broadly brownish.
Upper surface of head brownish also muzzle.
Iris slaty.
Fins all pale except variegated caudal which with large black blotch basally continued out on middle rays and outer half of each lobe with a large jetblack blotch.
Along side of trunka dusky vertebral streak widening posteriorly to blackish and finally merging with caudal blotch.
In dark lateral streak two scales from head black rounded blotch large as pupil.
Length 57 mm.
Type No.
39224 A. N. S. P. Tributary of Rio Madeira near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also Nos.
39225 to 39227 A. N. S. P. paratypes same data.
Head 3 to 3 depth 3f to 4 D. in 9 A. iv 19 i scales 32 to 34 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 1 or 2 more on latter 6 scales above 1.
1. 4 or 5 scales below 1.
1. 10 or 11 predorsal scales to occipital process snout 3j to 3f in head eye 2f to 2f  maxillary 2 to 2 interorbital 2 to 3 length 52 to 55 mm.
This form seems to be closely related to Moenkhausia lepidura Kner.
It perhaps approaches nearest the subspecies M. lepidura gracilima Eigenmann differing apparently only in color so far as the short account will permit of comparison.
Villa Bella specimens are described as having the color of the caudal faint a duskiness extending upon lower caudal lobe and humeral spot not well defined.
Serpa specimens have middle caudal rays and distal parts of other rays and upper and lower edges of fin dusky.
Named for the Madeira River.
Hemigrammus melanochrous sp.
nov.
Fig.
12.
Head 3f depth 3f D. ii 9 A. iv 18 i P. i 10 V. i 7 scales 32 in median lateral series to caudal base and 2 more on latter 1.
1. of 7 tubes anteriorly from shoulder 10 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins 10 predorsal scales to occipital process head width 2yV its length head depth at occiput 1 snout 3f eye2f maxillary 2 interorbital 2  first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal raj 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f pectoral IJ ventral If.
Body elongately ovoid deepest at dorsal origin compressed profiles more or less similar and edges all convexly rounded.
Caudal peduncle well compressed and its least depth nearly equals its length.
Head moderate compressed lower profile a little more inclined or convex than upper and nearly flattened sides slightly approximating below.
Snout convex over surface and in profile length about f its width.
Eye large rounded rather high and its centre a little anterior in head.
Pupil large rounded.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth large wide commissure rather short.
Lips rather thin and mostly firm.
Maxillary long rather slender well inclined free and extends back opposite front pupil edge.
Teeth in upper jaw biserial those in inner row larger quindentate.
No maxillary teeth.
Mandible with a row of ten quindentate large subequal teeth though no small posterior lateral ones.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue moderate depressed rounded and free in front.
Mandible strong surface convex rami of moderate and uniformly low height inside mouth not elevated and when closed even with snout tip.
Suborbitals well developed infraorbital almost covering cheeks but very narrow naked strip below smooth.
Hind edge of preopercle vertical smooth.
Opercle deep upper hind edge emarginate.
Occipital fontanel broad extends from anterior interorbital 544 Oct. till within occipital process and latter extends about  of distance to dorsal origin.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite front pupil edge.
Rakers about 6  10 slender short little less than filaments and latter about 3 in eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted surface convex.
Branchiostegals rather small subequal.
Scales moderate well exposed in longitudinal series each with a few radiating striae and of nearly uniform size.
Caudal base scaly and a few scales in a row along anal base in front.
Free pointed axillary ventral scaly flap its length about  that of fin.
Fig.
12.
 Hemigram7nus melanochrous Fowler.
Type.
L. 1. incomplete of simple short tubes anterior on scales and its extent not quite so far back as tip of depressed pectoral.
Dorsal inserted midway between snout tip and hind edge of adipose fin first branched ray longest and depressed fin reaches about I to caudal base.
Adipose fin with base over last anal rays fin about  of eye.
Anal inserted slightly behind base of dorsal ray first branched ray longest forms with other anterior rays elevated pointed lobe.
Caudal well forked lobes pointed and equal.
Pectoral long pointed upper rays longest and tip of depressed fin extending slightly beyond ventral origin.
Ventral inserted slightly before dorsal and depressed fin reaches anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol dull brownish generally made up of small dusky dots forming broad nebulous area all along sides and welldefined broad edges to scales on back.
A dark vertebral streak along side of bodj becomes blackish along caudal peduncle side and joins illdefined caudal blotch behind.
Caudal blotch blackish a little smaller than eye and continued out over median caudal rays.
At third scale of vertebral streak also on fourth a nearly cuboid blackish humeral blotch.
Upper surface of head muzzle and side with dusky dots.
Iris slaty.
Isthmus pale.
Fins all sprinkled or dusted with dusk' dots.
Length 33 mm.
Type No.
39228 A. N. S. P. Tributary of Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also No.
39229 A. N. S. P. paratype same data.
Head 3 depth 3 D. ii 9 A. iv 18 i scales 32 in median lateral series to caudal base and 2 more on latter 1.
1. of 8 tubes 10 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins 10 predorsal scales to occipital process snout 3j in head eye 2j maxillary 2 interorbital 2f  length 30 mm.
This species resembles Hemigrammus schmardcv Steindachner in color though differs in the absence of maxillary teeth.
MeXaypoo swarthy with reference to the general color.
Hemigrammus ocellifer Steindachner.
Two examples from Igarape Candelaria about two miles from the Madeira River and into which it flows in S. Lat.
8 45' W. Long.
63 54' Brazil.
September 1912.
Fourteen examples from the Madeira River about 200 miles east of W. Long.
62 20' Brazil.
September 1912.
Hyphessobrycon hasemani sp.
nov.
Fig.
13.
Head 3i depth 3 D. ii 8 A. in 27 P. i 10 V. i 8 scales about 32 in median lateral series to caudal base 10 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins 11 predorsal scales head width 2 in its length head depth 1 at occiput mandible 2 first branched dorsal ray about lyV first branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 3f upper caudal lobe 1 pectoral If ventral 2 snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2f maxillary 3 interorbital 3.
Body elongate compressed upper profile forms broad obtuse angle at origin of dorsal which point deepest part of body predorsal with obsolete median ridge and edges otherwise rounded convexly.
Caudal peduncle compressed small its length from last anal ray base about equal to its least tlepth.
546 Oct. Head moderate compressed lower profile a little more convex than upper and nearly flattened sides only very slightly constricted below.
Snout short convex over surface and in profile length about half its width.
Eye large rounded high centre about first f in head.
Pupil large.
Eyelids free.
Mouth broad terminal short in commissure.
Maxillary free well inclined extends back slightly Ijeyond front eye edge though not to that of pupil.
Lips firm moderate.
Teeth small inconspicuous conic broad basally biserial in upper jaw and uniserial in lower.
No maxillary teeth.
Upper inner buccal fold broader than lower.
Tongue depressed rounded and free in front.
Iandille strong rami scarcely elevated inside Fig.
13.
 Hyphessobnjcon hasemani Fowler.
Type.
mouth and tip in front extends forward slightly before snout tip.
Nostrils together in posterior part of snout before eye anterior simple and posterior crescentic.
Interorbital slightly convex.
Suborbitals well developed and completely cover cheek surfaces smooth.
Opercle with upper hind edge emarginate deep smooth.
Top of head apparently with broad fontanel as upper surface of cranium soft both in parietal and frontal region.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite front pupil edge.
Rakers about 7  12 slender lanceolate a little smaller than filaments and latter about f in eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted convex over surface.
Branchiostegals moderate slender subequal.
Scales large well exposed in lengthwise series and of more or less equal size.
Except several scales on caudal base fins scaleless and no axillary flaps.
L. 1. not developed except on 3 scales anteriorlj' and these interrupted after first by break of two scales.
Dorsal origin about midway between hind nostril and caudal base first branched ray longest and depressed fin extends If to caudal base.
Adipose fin placed over last anal ray bases fin about f in eye.
Anal inserted below anterior dorsal rays first branched ray longest and forms with other anterior rays conspicuous elevated pointed lobe extending back when depressed opposite origin of adipose fin.
Caudal well forked pointed lobes rather slender and equal.
Pectoral low pointed upper rays longest and depressed fin extends opposite ventral insertion.
Latter a little before dorsal origin and depressed fin extends back nearly to base of first branched anal ray.
Vent close before anal origin.
Color in alcohol pale brownish below lighter.
Back with edges of scales narrowly dusky.
No humeral blotch or caudal blotch.
Head brownish above sides and below whitish.
Iris whitish dusky above and below now largeh turned slaty.
Fins all pale anal and caudal dusted with minute dusky dots and dorsal with large blackish blotch above and largely anterior.
Length 28 mm.
Type No.
39230 A. N. S. P. Madeira River above Falls of Guajaramirim approximately in Lat.
S. 10 47' Long.
W. 65 23' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Only the type known.
It is apparently related to Hijphessobrycon minor Darbin but differs at once in the absence of a dark humeral blotch and the longer maxillary.
Named for Mr. John D. Haseman who has explored much of South America and contributed a number of papers to Brazilian ichthyology.
Hyphessobrycon stigmatias sp.
nov.
Fig.
14.
Head 3t depth 3f  D. in 8 A. iii 16 P. i 12 V. i 8 scales 31 in median lateral series to caudal base and 2 more in latter 9 scales transversely between dorsal and ventral origins about 11 predorsal scales head width If in its length head depth Ij at occiput snout 4 eye 2 maxillary 3yo interorbital 2 first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  pectoral If ventral 1.
Body moderately long well compressed deepest at dorsal origin profiles similarly convex and edges all convexly rounded.
Caudal peduncle well compressed its least depth about 1 in its length.
548 Oct. Head moderate compressed profiles similar and flattened sides slightly constricted below.
Snout convex in profile and over surface its length about f its width.
Eye large high rounded its centre about first f in head.
Mouth broad with short commissure terminal.
Maxillary well inclined free and extends beyond front eye edge though not quite to front pupil edge.
Lips firm little developed.
Teeth strong with broad bases simply conic or tricuspid and in latter case usually of larger size.
Upper teeth biserial though series close and outer slightly irregular.
Maxillary with three cusps inside near base.
Mandible with a series of mostly tricuspid teeth but little smaller posteriorly along sides of rami.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue depressed rounded and free in Fig.
14.Hyphessobrycoi stlginatiaa Fowler.
Type front.
Mandible rather strong rami not elevated inside mouth and closed jaws about equal.
Nostrils together posteriorly situated in snout length anterior simple pore and posterior crescentic.
Interorbital moderately convex.
Suborbitals rather broad and infraorbital nearly covers cheek surfaces smooth.
Hind preopercle edge slightly inclined posteriorly.
Opercle deep.
Top of head or cranium soft with broad parietal fontanel though still narrower within frontal region.
Gillopening extends forward nearly opposite front pupil edge.
Rakers about 510 slender lanceolate much shorter than filaments and latter about 3 in eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted surface convex.
Branchiostegals slender subequal.
Scales cycloid well exposed in lengthwise series moderately large and of nearly uniform size.
A few scales on caudal base though none on other fins and ventral axil with short pointed scale.
No 1.
1. developed.
Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than caudal base first branched ray longest and depressed fin not quite reaching half way to caudal base.
Adipose fin rather large its base placed over last anal ray bases.
Anal inserted a little nearer pectoral origin than caudal base below posterior dorsal rays and first branched ray longest so that fin elevated in pointed lobe.
Caudal well forked pointed lobes equal.
Pectoral low not quite reaching to ventral origin upper rays longest and fin pointed.
Ventral inserted well before dorsal or nearly midway between pectoral and anal origins fin reaching anal.
Vent opens about midway in post ventral region.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally lower surface paler.
Scales on back all with dusky edges.
Upper surface of head dusky sides and below paler.
Muzzle and opercle above with dusky dots.
Iris slaty.
Fins all dusted with dusky dots.
At shoulder behind gillopening large cluster of dusky dots though not forming a defined humeral blotch.
A dark vertebral line along sides after humeral clouding extending to caudal base along side of caudal peduncle expanding broadly and becoming black.
On caudal base it narrows suddenly and extends out on median caudal ra3s.
Base of each caudal lobe with pale or whitish area.
Length 23 mm.
Type No.
39231 A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Only the type known.
It is likely related to Moenkhausia cotinho Eigenmann but that species is said to have 20 or 21 anal rays and a very large conspicuous vertically oval black spot on base of caudal bordered behind by milkywhite.
lTtXfiaTca branded person with reference to the black caudal blotch.
Hyphessobrycon agulha sp.
nov.
Fig.
15.
Agulha.
Head 3f  depth 31 D. iii 9 A. iv 19 i P. i 13 V. i 7 scales 32 in median lateral series to caudal base and 2 more on latter  1.
1. of 12 tubes anteriorly extends back and down in gentle curve little beyond front of dorsal 6 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin 3 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 9 predorsal scales to occipital process head width 1 in its length head depth at occiput 1 mandible 1 first branched anal ray Ij least depth of caudal 550 Oct. peduncle 2f  pectoral Ig ventral If snout 3f in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2f  maxillary 2 interorbital 2.
Body moderately elongate well compressed deepest at dorsal origin profiles similar predorsal slightly constricted though not keeled medianly and other edges all convexly rounded.
Caudal peduncle well compressed its least depth trifle less than its length.
Head moderate compressed profiles similar and flattened sides but very slightly approximated below.
Snout convex over surface and in profile short its length about half its width.
Eye large rounded high and hind pupil edge about midway in head length.
Fig.
15.
 Hyphessobrycon agulha Fowler.
Type.
Pupil large circular.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth well inclined broad commissure short.
Maxillary long slender free well inclined extends back about opposite front pupil edge.
Lips firm moderate.
Teeth mostly quindentate.
Upper jaw with 8 teeth in each series parallel and inner lower slightly larger.
No maxillary teeth.
Mandible with 8 large quindentate teeth anteriorly and along each ramus posteriorly row of small conic teeth continued back these all much shorter and contrasted with anterior ones.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue broad depressed rounded and free in front.
Mandible strong slightly protrudes beyond snout tip when closed and rami not elevated inside mouth.
Nostrils together close before eye anterior simple pore and posterior crescentic.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Preorbital long slender.
Infraorbital broad covers cheek all but very narrow strip in lower angle with a few coarse striae.
Hind preopercle edge straight and slightly inclined posteriorly.
Opercle narrow deep emarginate along upper hind edge and surface smooth.
Occipital fontanel well developed in frontal and parietal regions till within occipital process broad.
Gillopening extends forward nearly opposite front pupil edge.
Rakers about 6  12 slender lanceolate a little less than filaments and latter about 3 in eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted in front its surface with slight groove though posteriorly lroader and convex.
Branchiostegals rather large subequal.
Scales large well exposed in longitudinal series of nearly uniform size and each one with few radiating striae.
Row of few small scales along bases of anterior anal rays.
Caudal base with few small scales.
Free pointed axillary ventral scaly flap nearly 3 in fin.
L. 1. incomplete slightly decurved.
Tubes simple only on anterior portions of scale exposures.
Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and hind edge of adipose fin first branched ray longest or little longer than head reaches If to caudal base.
Adipose fin placed over last anal ray bases fin f in eye.
Caudal well forked pointed lobes equal trifle longer than head.
Anal inserted below last dorsal ray bases or a trifle nearer pectoral origin than caudal base first branched ray longest with anterior rays forming an elevated pointed lobe.
Pectoral low slender pointed upper rays longest and fin reaches slightly beyond ventral origin.
Latter slightly before dorsal origin fin pointed and extends slightly beyond front anal rays.
nt close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely dull or pale brownish.
Scales on back all broadly marked with dusksubmarginal wideangled streaks.
Each scale on predorsal postdorsal and scales along base of dorsal with conspicuous rounded dusky or dark spot.
Head brownish above also on lips.
Iris slaty.
Lower surface of head and belly whitish.
Along side from head to caudal base broad area of brownish dots these larger and more sparse on cheek and side of abdomen.
Within this lateral area of dusky dots narrow brownish band extends from shoulder straight to median cau lal base where continued out on middle rays of caudal as blackish streak and streak not quite wide as pupil diameter.
No distinct caudal spot.
Humeral region with elliptical horizontal dusky or blackish blotch a little less in length than eye.
From lower edge a short vertical branch of dusky given off from humeral streak.
Fins pale with very slight dusky tinge distally though all more or less whitish basally.
Length 42 mm.
Type No.
39232 A. N. S. P. Madeira River about 200 miles east of W. Long.
62 20' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also Nos.
39233 to 39289 A. N. S. P. paratypes same data.
One example from the Madeira River above the Falls of Guajaramirim approximately S. Lat.
10 47' W. Long.
65 23' Brazil.
September 1912.
Nine examples from Igarape de Candelaria tributary of the Madeira River about S. Lat.
8 45' W. Long.
63 54' Brazil.
September 1912.
Fiftythree examples from tributaries of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
All the specimens representing this species are smaller than the type and were collected by Mr. Smith.
Changes with age are noticeable in color small or young specimens showing an obscure humeral blotch and usually no black on caudal.
A narrow line of dusky dots extends along parallel with the anal base on lower side of trunk.
The species is related to Hyphessobrycon heUotti Steindachner though differs in the absence of maxillary teeth and the dark humeral blotch not surrounded by a bright ring.
Agulha the native name.
Creagrutus anary sp.
nov.
Fig.
16.
Anary.
Head 3f depth 3f  D. iii 8 A. m 11 i P. i 13 V. i 7 scales 37 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 5 more on latter 5 scales above 1.
1. 3 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 4 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 8 predorsal scales to hind end of occipital process head width If its length head depth at occiput 1 snout 3 eye 2 maxillary 2 interorbital 3 first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 upper caudal lobe 1 pectoral Ij ventral 1.
Body moderately long compressed of robust appearance deepest at dorsal origin back very slightly elevated and edges all convexly rounded though slight constriction just before dorsal origin.
Caudal  Denk.
Ak.
Wiss. Wien XLYI I 1883 p. 34.
Tabatinga.
1913.
553 peduncle well compressed its least depth about H in its length measured from last anal ray base.
Head moderate robust compressed flattened sides not converging and upper profile a little more convex than lower.
Snout well convex in profile and over surface well protruded beyond mandible and its length about  its width.
Eye large rounded high and centre falls about first  in head.
Pupil large rounded.
Eyelids free narrow not adiposelike.
Mouth inferiorly terminal broad with short curved commissure.
Maxillary strong bent slips below preorbital all along its upper edge extends well below and slightly beyond front eye edge.
Lips thick fleshy not free.
Teeth rather Fig.
IG.
 Creagrutus aiiary Fowler.
Type.
large tricuspid or quincuspid.
Upper jaw with.
3 series of large teeth forming considerable dental area.
Mandible with single series of teeth large quincuspid subequal.
Maxillary with several small denticles simple and appear as continuation of upper innermost teeth.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue depressed rounded and free in front.
Mandible obtuse strong and rami short and low.
Nostrils together close before eye anterior simple and posterior crescentic.
Suborbitals broad nearly cover cheek only slight naked strip below.
Hind edge of preopercle straight inclined slightly posteriorly.
Opercle deep narrow upper hind edge notched.
Parietalfrontal fontanel well developed extends to occipital process and latter about  to dorsal origin.
Gillopening extends forward opposite front pupil edge.
Rakers 37 6  16 slender lanceolate much less than filaments and latter about f of eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted in front broad behind and surface convex.
Branchiostegals moderate subequal.
Scales moderate well exposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1 1. each with a few radiating strise and of mostly uniform size.
Caudal covered with a number of small scales over greater basal portion.
Scales large along anterior base of dorsal and form sheath and similar ones on anal.
Ventral with free pointed axillary scaly flap its length nearly  that of fin.
L. 1. complete slightly decurved till about f in greatest body depth and extends a little low along side of caudal peduncle to median caudal base.
Tubes simple moderately exposed anteriorly.
Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and hind edge of adipose fin first branched ray longest and depressed fin reaches 2j to caudal base.
Adipose fin placed over last anal rays basally or about last  in space between dorsal origin and caudal base fin about equals eye.
Anal inserted close after dorsal base first branched ray longest though with other anterior anal rays not forming distinct lobe.
Caudal well forked lobes longer than head broad pointed equal and rudimentary rays well developed.
Pectoral low rounded upper rays longest and extend  to ventral origin.
Ventral inserted slightly behind dorsal origin and extends back to anal origin.
Vent about last f in postventral space.
Color in alcohol very pale brownish generally.
Edges of scales on back dotted with brownish though no median dark streak.
Upper surface of head brownish sides muzzle and lower surface whitish.
Iris slaty.
Above third scale of 1.
1. vertical dusky humeral blotch its vertical diameter about equal to pupil.
Evidently a silvery lateral streak narrow and best defined posteriorly.
A narrow dark underlaid streak made up of dusky dots vertebral along side of body begins opposite tip of depressed pectoral and extends to median caudal base and most distinct in median part of its course.
Slight dusky spot at bases of median caudal rays and lower lobe sprinkled with minute dusky dots.
Upper or apical portion of dorsal sprinkled with dusky dots.
Fins otherwise than noted above pale or whitish.
Length 42 mm.
Type No.
39290 A. N. S. P. Madeira River about 200 miles east of Long.
W. 62 20' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also No.
39291 A. N. S. P. paratype same data.
Head 3 depth 3 D. ii 8 A. iii 11 i scales 36 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 4 more on latter 5 scales above 1.
1. 3 scales below 1.
I. to ventral origin 3 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 9 scales before dorsal to occipital process snout 3f in head eye 3 maxillary 2 interorbital 3 length 34 mm.
It appears related to Creagndus affinis Steindachner'' Creagrutus magdaleiue Eigenmann and Creagrutus hrevipinnis Eigenmann all of which however have no dark caudal spot.
Creagrutus avary has three teeth rather enlarged forming its posterior premaxillary series.
Anary the native name.
Bryconamericus jacunda sp.
nov.
Fig.
17.
Jacunda.
Head 3 depth 3 D. ii 8 A. iii 23 i P. i 10 V. i 8 scales 35 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 3 more on latter 5 scales above 1.
1. 4 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin or to anal origin 12 predorsal scales head width 2 in its length head depth at occiput 1 snout 4 eye 2f  maxillary 2f  interorbital 2 first branched dorsal ray lyV first branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral lyV ventral 1.
Body elongate moderately compressed lower profile a little more convex than upper greatest depth at dorsal origin and edges all convexly rounded.
Caudal peduncle well compressed length about f its least depth.
Head moderately large compressed profiles convex with upper a little more bulging and flattened sides very slightly constricted below.
Snout convex over surface and in profile short and its length half its width.
Eye large rounded though deeper vertically than horizontal width midway inhead depth and hind pupil edge about midway in head length.
Pupil vertically ellipsoid.
Eyelids narrow free not adiposelike.
Mouth small terminal broad very short in commissure.
Lips thick fleshy firm.
Maxillary slender oblique extends back about opposite front eye edge free distally short extent and upper edge largely slips below preorbital.
Teeth quincuspid with median point to each largest.
Upper teeth biserial outer in an irregular row of small ones and inner row of 5 large broad ones.
No maxillary teeth.
Mandible with single series of large teeth in front.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue broad.
6 Denk.
Ak.
Wiss. Wien XLII 1884 p. 27.
Cauca near Caceres Colombia.
 Indiana Univ.
Studies March 1913 p. 8.
Girardot Honda Penas Blancas and Apulo Colombia.
8 L.c p. 10.
Piedra Moler Paila Cartago Colombia.
556 Oct. depressed free and rounded in front.
Mandible robust convex strong rami not elevated in mouth and upper jaw moderately protruded beyond when mouth closes.
Nostrils together large close before eye above anterior simple pore and posterior crescent ic.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Preorbital narrow.
Infraorbital broad smooth completely covers cheek.
Hind preopercle edge vertical.
Opercle deep smooth hind edge above slightly emarginate.
Broad fontanel from between frontals and parietals to occipital process latter short and triangular.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite first  in eye.
Rakers about 59 slender lanceolate much less than filaments and Fig.
17.
 Bryconamericus jacimda Fowler.
Tj'pe.
latter about  of eye.
Isthmus constricted surface convex.
Branchiostegals large subequal.
Scales moderate moderately imbricated disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. those on middle of side little larger than others.
Caudal with greater portion basally covered with small closeset scales.
Anal with bSsal series of scales its whole extent though graduated smaller posteriorly.
Ventral with free pointed axillary scaly flap about I length of fin.
L. 1. complete decurved till about f in greatest body depth and extends a little low along caudal peduncle side till midway at caudal base.
Tubes simple and each one extends anteriorly on scale exposure about f its extent.
Dorsal origin about midway between front eye edge and caudal base first branched ray longest and fin extends back If to caudal base.
Adipose fin elongate its base over last anal ray bases.
Anal well anterior inserted little behind dorsal origin anterior rays elevated with first branched longest though not forming distinct lobe rays being graduated down behind with straight edge.
Caudal longer than head well eraarginated or forked and pointed lobes about equal.
Pectoral long pointed low upper rays longest and depressed fin extends back about f to anal origin.
Ventral inserted about last f in space between pectoral and anal origins and extends back a little beyond front of anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally.
Back and sides sprinkled with numerous dusky dots these also extend over anal basally and over most of caudal.
Area above 1.
1. to about seventh scale of its course pale or not dusted with dark dots except on third and fourth scales a vertical streak equal to vertical eyediameter extends upward slightly inclined posteriorly and this streak made up of dark larger dots.
Head brownish above sides muzzle and below paler or whitish.
Iris slaty.
Except as noted above fins pale.
Median streak of dull brownish dots down back.
Pale lateral vertebral line of dark dots begins on dotted part of side and continues to caudal base where evidence of faded or pale dusky blotch medianly.
Length 31 mm.
Type No.
39292 A. N. S. P. IMadeira River about 200 miles east of W. Long.
62 20'.
Brazil.
September.
1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Only the type known.
Brijconamericus alburnus Hensel differs in the smaller head 4f though agrees in the absence of maxillary teeth scales etc.
Jacunda the native name.
Bryconamericus smithi sp.
nov.
Fig.
18.
Head 4 depth 2 D. ii 7 A. iii 25 i P. i 10 V. i 7 37 scales in 1.
1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter 6 scales above 1.
1. 4 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 5 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 14 predorsal scales head width 1 its length head depth at occiput liV snout 3h eye 2f maxillary 2 interorbital 2 first branched dorsal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 first branched anal ray 1 pectoral 1 ventral 1.
Body moderately long of ovoid contour with lower profile a little more convex anteriorly greatest depth at dorsal origin and edges all convexly rounded except trenchant post ventral.
Caudal peduncle compressed about long as deep.
558 Oct. Head rather small well compressed profiles similarly and slightly convex and flattened head sides slightly constricted below.
Snout convex over surface and in profile length about f its basal width.
Eye large rounded slightly elevated centre about first f in head length.
Eyelid free without adiposelike development.
Pupil rounded.
Mouth broad with short commissure.
Maxillary largely free slender well inclined extends back slightly beyond front eye edge though not quite to that of pupil.
Lips fleshy not free.
Upper teeth biserial outer row of small unevenly arranged teeth in a wavy line and deeply imbedded appearing as single cusps or tricuspid the outer cusps being quite small.
Inner upper row of Bryconatnericus smithi Fowler.
Tj'pe.
t.eth large broadly triangular quincuspid 6 in number.
No maxillary teeth.
Mandibular teeth uniserial quincuspid and .suddenly stopping along front of rami so that posterior teeth if present very small.
Mandible moderate included so snout slightly protrudes beyond closed jaws convex and rami not elevated inside mouth.
Inner buccal folds moderate.
Tongue depressed rounded and free in front.
Nostrils together close before upper front rim of eye anterior simple pore and posterior much larger and broadly crescentic.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Suborbitals large especially infraorbital and completely 'covering cheek.
Hind preopercle ridge nearly vertical entire.
Opercle deep smooth its upper posterior edge not emarginate.
Occipital fontanel broad extends from frontals to occipital process and latter siiort narrowly triangular.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite front edge of pupil.
Rakers about 710 slender lanceolate much less than filaments and latter about  of eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted surface convex.
Branchiostegals rather large subequal.
Scaler moderately small disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. each well exposed cycloid and of mostly uniform size.
Along base of anal on trunk scales become smaller and along base of anal its entire length a series of scales which larger anteriorly and diminishing posteriorly.
Caudal base scaled and lobes of fin also covered with small scales over greater portions.
Free pointed axillary scaly flap to ventral j length of fin.
L. 1. complete slightly decurved till f in greatest body depth extending a little low along side of caudal peduncle 'till reaching caudal base medianly.
Tubes simple extend over first half of scale at least.
Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base first branched ray longest with depressed fin extending half way to caudal base.
Adipose fin slender about 1 in eye its origin about last y in space between dorsal origin and caudal base.
Caudal well forked lobes pointed similar equal.
Anal inserted well forward nearly midway between centre of eye and caudal base first branched ray longest and with anterior rays elevated slightly though not forming distinct lobe and base long and straight.
Pectoral low upper rays longest pointed and depressed fin extends back slightly beyond ventral base.
Ventral inserted well before dorsal reaches anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color pale brownish generally.
Back and trunk above anal finely dotted with dull or pale dusky.
Median pale lateral streak from eye to caudal base less than eye diameter in width.
Shoulder with large pale area within which vertical narrow dusky streak about equal to eye diameter.
A narrow pale dusky vertebral lateral streak posteriorly forms upper boundary of silvery lateral streak.
Fins all pale or grayish.
No caudal blotch.
Head brownish above silvered or whitish on sides and below.
Iris silvery with dusky vertical streak.
Teeth pale.
Length 35 mm.
Type No.
39293 A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also Nos.
39294 to 39298 A. N. S. P. paratypes same data.
Head 3f to 3 depth 3 to 3 D. ii 7 or ii 8 A. iii 24 i to iii 27 i scales 34 to 36 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 2 or 3 more on latter 6 scales above 1.
1. 5 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 12 or 13 predorsal scales snout 3 to 3f in head eye 2 to 2 maxillary 2 to 24 interorbital 2f to 2f  length 24 to 33 mm.
Closely related to the preceding specie though apparently differs in the smaller head and deeper body.
Named for Mr. Edgar A.
Smith.
CHALCIN.E.
Chalcinus angulatus Agassiz.
Five from the Falls of Guajaramirim Madeira River approximately Lat.
S. 10 47' Long.
W. 65 23' Brazil.
September 1912.
One young example from the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
GASTEROPELECIN.E.
.
Gasteropelecus securis Filippi.
One from the Madeira River about 200 miles east of W. Long.
63 54' Brazil.
September 1912.
Five from tributary of Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
These specimens all appear to be identical with Filippi's account. They also agree with examples I have studied from Pebas and the Ambyiacu River as Gasteropelecus stellatus Kner' and thus fall within my subgenus Thoracocharax.
GNATHOCHARAX gen. nov.
Type Gnathocharax steindachneri sp.
nov.
Body elongately ovoid profiles unlike anteriorly upper straight and lower convex.
Preventral with median keel over which scales pass.
Head rather upturned.
Snout short broad.
Eye very large with free eyelids.
Mouth terminal above.
Maxillary very oblique elongate.
Teeth uniserial in jaws none on maxillary and mandible with several canines.
Mandible slightly project.
Interorbital low.
Gillrakers lanceolate 39 long.
Scales large cycloid.
Caudal and anal bases scaly.
Lateral line incomplete only on few scales from shoulder.
Dorsal inserted posteriorly moderate.
Adipose fin placed over last anal rays.
Anal long Rev.
Mag.
Zool 1853 p. 165.
Rio Napo.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1906 p.. 4.52. inserted little before dorsal.
Caudal well forked.
Pectorals large falcate reach back well beyond dorsal base.
Ventrals small.
No humeral blotch.
Caudal with black blotch.
Small fishes of the Amazon basin.
They are remarkable for the simple dentition in this respect differing from the rest of the members of this subfamily.
They also suggest certain Characince as Asiphonichthys though differ in the larger pectorals and conic teeth.
Possibly they are more closely allied with Pseudocorynopoma of the present subfamily but differ in the incomplete lateral line as well as the dentition.
Vacyoc jaw Xafia' Cliarax with reference to the long maxillary.
Gnathocharax steindachneri sp.
nov.
Fig.
19.
Head 3 depth 3i D. ii 6 i A. iii 31 i P. i 15 V. i 7 scales 33 in median lateral series to caudal base and 2 more on latter  10 scales transversely between dorsal origin and that of anal 14 predorsal scales head width 1 in its length head depth at occiput 1 mandible 1 first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray  least depth of caudal peduncle 3 ventral 2 snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2 maxillary 1 interorbital 3.
Body elongate greatly compressed deepest at dorsal origin upper predorsal profile nearly straight and little inclined and lower anterior profile well curved convexly.
Upper edges convex preventral largely convex with slight median keel and postventral constricted.
Caudal peduncle well compressed about long as deep.
Head moderate well compressed upper profile straight and little inclined lower profile well inclined convexly and rather convex sides slope evenly above and below.
Snout short neary straight in profile convex over surface and length about half its width.
Eye large rounded little elevated and centre slightly anterior to middle in head length.
Pupil moderatelj large rounded.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth large superiorly terminal.
Maxillary very long slender slips below preorbital edge most of its length extends down below eye till opposite last  in eye diameter and.
its greatest expan'ion about 5 in eye.
Lips thin firm little developed.
Teeth uniserial in jaws conic somewhat irregular sharply pointed and rather short.
Mandible with 3 pairs of wideset canines anteriorly.
No maxillary or palatine teeth.
Inner buccal folds moderate.
Tongue rather small depressed a little elongate nearly truncate and free in front.
Mandible slightly protrudes when closing strong rather shallow with convex surface and rami not elevated inside 562 Oct. mouth.
Nostrils together large close before eye anterior simple pore and posterior broadly crescentic.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Preorbital narrow.
Infraorbital broad smooth large completely overs cheek.
Hind edge of premaxillary entire well inclined forward.
Opercle smooth rather broad and hind edge scarcely emarginate.
Top of head with large fontanel begins on interorbital nearly opposite front edge of nostril and extends back to occipital process.
Latter short and triangular.
Gillopening extends forward opposite front pupil edge.
Rakers 39 lanceolate slender nearly twice length of filaments or about Fig.
19.
 Gnathocharax steindachneri Fowler.
Type.
 of eye diameter.
Isthmus narrowly constricted surface convex.
Branchiostegals rather short subeciual.
Scales rather large cycloid well exposed in lengthwise series those on predorsal rather oblique and somewhat more imbricated and all of more or less uniform size.
Caudal base scaly.
Row of small scales along base of anal anteriorly.
No axillary ventral scaly flap.
L. 1. incomplete comprises six simple tubes or series of scales from shoulder each tube only extending over first half of scale exposure.
Dorsal origin about opposite eye centre and caudal base first branched ray longest and depressed fin extends slightly over half way to caudal base.
Adipose fin equals about f eye diameter inserted near last fourth in space between hind pupil edge and caudal base.
Anal inserted slightly before dorsal origin first branched ray longest together with anterior rays which elevated forms pointed lobe.
Caudal a little longer than head well forked and lobes pointed upper slightly longer.
Pectoral enlarged about equals length of head and an eye diameter moderately low in its insertion upper rays longest.
Ventral small inserted about midway between mandible tip and origin of adipose fin.
nt close before anal.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally paler on under surface.
Head brownish above whitish below.
Muzzle brownish though only including upper half of mandible.
Suborbitals with rather large wideset brownish dots.
Iris slaty.
Opercles and flanks dusted with brownish and behind dusky narrow lateral vertebral blackish line to caudal base which latter entirely blackish though area included less than eye.
Median streak down back dusky also edges of scales on back sprinkled with minute dusky dots.
Along base of anal and close above on trunk though nearly parallel line of dusky dots.
Fins all pale sprinkled with dusky dots on outer portions.
Adipose fin pale.
Length 33 mm.
Type No.
39309 A. N. S. P. Igarape de Candelaria tributary of the Madeira River and approximately two miles distant in Lat.
S. 8 45' W. Long.
63 54' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
No.
39310 A. N. S. P. paratype Madeira River about 200 miles east of W. Long.
62 20' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
No.
39311 A. N. S. P. paratype.
Tributary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Named for Dr. Franz Steindachner.
CHARACIN.
TYTTOCHARAX gen. nov.
Type Tyltocharax madeirce sp.
nov.
Body oblong well compressed.
Head moderate.
Snout short.
Eye large without adipose eyelids.
Mouth broad short.
Maxillary free oblique with few simple conic teeth.
Teeth in jaws conic in bands and some externally similar ones on lips.
Few symphyseal teeth caninelike.
Interorbital broad.
Occipital process short and triangular.
Gillmembranes free from isthmus.
Rakers minute.
Scales large cycloid well exposed extend on caudal base and form anal sheath basally.
No 1.
1.
Dorsal fin inserted behind middle in body length.
Adipose fin moderate.
Caudal moderately forked lobes equal.
Anal inserted before dorsal origin with moderate basis.
Pectoral long pointed passes ventral base.
Ventral not reaching anal.
Dark lateral streak.
Shoulder and caudal each with dark blotch.
Minute fishes of the Madeira River basin.
They show affinity with certain of the Tetragonopterinx in the large scales but the conical teeth and external toothlike processes are more features of the present subfamily.
One species.
''utOo tiny .A'l Charax.
Tyttooharax madeirse sp.
nov.
Fig.
20.
Head 3 depth 3 D. ii 7 A. ii 16 P. i 9 V. i 7 scale
30 in median lateral series to caudal base and 2 more on latter 10 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins 10 predorsal scales head width 1 in its length head depth at occiput 1 snout 4 eye 2 maxillary 3 interorbital 2f  first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 lower caudal lobe 1 pectoral 1 ventral If.
Body moderately long well compressed lower profile more convex anteriorly than upper postventral trenchant and other edges convexly rounded.
Caudal peduncle compressed about long as deep.
Head moderate compressed lower profile more convex and inclined than upper and its flattened sides slightly constricted below.
Snout short convex over surface and in profile length abqut half its width.
Eye large rounded rather high and hind edge of pupil about midway in head length.
Pupil rounded moderate.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth broad short and inclined in commissure.
Lips firmly fleshy.
Maxillary well inclined slender free extends down opposite lower eye margin and slightly beyond anterior eye margin though not nearly to front pupil edge.
Teeth all conic simple moderately large in bands in jaws and outer mostly with appearance as if imbedded in lips.
Some of teeth at symphyseal region slightly recurved and enlarged a little appearing somewhat caninelike.
On lips a number of denticles or toothlike structures protruded through the integument.
Maxillary with a few irregular small and inconspicuous teeth along upper edge.
Apparently no other teeth.
Buccal fold moderate inside mouth.
Tongue depressed rounded and free in front.
Mandible small strong shallow low rami not elevated inside mouth and when closed very slightly 1913.
565 protrude beyond snout tip.
Nostrils together large anterior simple pore posterior larger crescentic.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Infraorbital broad covers cheek.
Hind preopercle edge nearly vertical.
Opercle smooth deep hind edge rounded.
Fontanel broad extends from frontals to occipital process.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite front pupil edge.
Rakers a few minute points.
Filaments about  of eye.
Isthmus moderately constricted its surface convex.
Branchiostegals modcrate subequal.
Scales large well exposed in lengthwie series cj'cloid and of mostly uniform size along base of anal extending out without Fig.
20.
 Tijltocharaz madeirw Fowler.
Type.
liminution in size or augmented numbers to form basal sheath for fin.
Caudal base scaly.
L. 1. not developed.
Dorsal origin about midway between hind edge of eye and caudal base first branched ray longest and depressed fin extends back 1 to caudal base.
Adipose fin small inserted about last f in space between dorsal origin and caudal base.
Caudal moderate well forked pointed and rather broad lobes subequal.
Anal inserted well before dorsal or nearly midway between mandible tip and caudal base first branched ray longest and with anterior rays longer than others though not forming elevated lobe lower edge of fin being nearly straight.
Pectoral low pointed upper rays longest extends back about first third in length of depressed ventral.
Origin of ventral nearer anal origin than that of pectoral and depressed fin extending back to vent which close before anal.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally paler below.
Head dusky above cheek and opercle dusted with dark dots and lower surface pale or whitish.
Iris slaty.
Lips dusky also dusky blotch on each side of mandible in front.
Median dusky streak down back.
Dusky humeral blotch less than pupil in size.
Lateral vertebral blackish streak becoming more intense behind till it merges with dusky blotch at caudal base latter reflected out on rays of caudal basally so that it appears but little smaller than eye.
Fins all pale.
Length 18 mm.
Type No.
39305 A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Rio Madeira near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
No.
39306 A. N. S. P. paratype same data.
Four examples from Igarape de Candelaria a tributary of the Madeira River though at a point two miles distant in Lat.
S. 8 45' Long.
W. 63 54' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Two examples from the Madeira River about 200 miles east of Long.
W. 62 20' Brazil.
September 1912.
These specimens are all small and agree with the type so far as I can compare them.
Named for the Madeira River.
Charax sardina sp.
nov.
Sardinha.
Fig.
21.
Head 3i depth 3f  D. ii 9 A. iv 31 i P. i 14 V. i 7 scales 70 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 5 more on latter about 12 scales between dorsal origin and 1.
1. 10 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 12 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin about 22
predorsal scales head width 2f in its length head depth at occiput If  snout 3j eye3f maxillary If interorbital 3f first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 3 upper caudal lobe 1 pectoral 1 ventral If.
Body elongate compressed slenderly ovoid in contour deepest at dorsal origin profiles similar postventral a little trenchant and other edges convex.
Caudal peduncle compressed about long as deep.
Head triangular in profile attenuated lower profile little more convex compressed and flattened sides slightly constricted below.
Snout conic somewhat depressed above and a little shorter than broad.
Eye rounded well elevated and its centre near first f in head.
Pupil moderate rounded.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth large well inclined opens in front level with middle of eye completely closing.
Lips thin firm little developed.
Maxillary greatly inclined largely free and expanding below until about 2 1913.
567 in eye also its lower hind end reaches slightly beyond hind edge of eye.
Teeth along jaw edges fine conic in narrow band or irregularly biserial uniform sharply pointed.
Teeth of upper jaw extend along maxillary edge its entire length though mostly uniserial.
Upper jaw with single large conic canine in front medianly and 3 subequally smaller ones on each side anteriorly all placed just inside band of small teeth.
Mandible with 3 pairs of canines symphyseal pair wideset and largest.
No palatine teeth.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue fleshy slenderly pointed and free.
Mandiljle rather broad shallow and rami low inside mouth snout slightly protruding when jaws close.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Preorbital slender.
Infrarjrr0' Fig.
21.
 CJinrnx mnJina Fowler.
Type.
orbital broad its surface slightly papillose and covers about half of cheek which latter with naked skin also slightly asperous.
Preopercle without spine its hind edge entire and sloping slightly back and lower edge with 7 minute denticles.
Opercle deep nearly smooth and its upper hind edge a little emarginate.
Well developed frontal and parietal fontanel extends from internasal region back to occipital process latter narrowly triangular and short.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite middle of eye.
Rakers 34 strong lanceolate about equal filaments and latter a little less than half of eye.
Isthmus narrowly constricted convex over surface.
Branchiostegals moderate subequal.
Scales all small each one roughened with about six minute conic thorns or denticles.
Along predorsal edge of body scales appear a little smaller or more crowded.
On sides of body scales disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1.
Caudal base scaly.
A few small scales along anal base in front.
Ventral with short free pointed axillary scaly flap.
L. 1. complete nearly straight and median along side of body.
Tubes simple extend well over scale exposures or to their hind edges.
Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than caudal base first branched ray longest and reaches back If to caudal base.
Adipose fin moderate about equals eye in length and its origin near last third in space between dorsal origin and caudal base.
Caudal well forked pointed lobes equal.
Anal inserted a little behind dorsal origin first branched ray longest where it forms slight lobe with anterior rays.
Pectoral low upper rays longest and extends back slightly beyond origin of ventral.
Ventral inserted a little nearer pectoral origin than anal and fin pointed extending back slightly beyond anal origin.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally scarcely paler below.
Back and sides sprinkled with minute pale dusky dots becoming larger and less closer on caudal base though no distinct caudal or shoulder spots formed.
Head brownish above paler below.
Iris slaty Fins all pale though origin of adipose fin with dusky dots basally and in front.
Length 40 mm.
Type No.
39307 A. N. S. P. Madeira River about 200 miles east of W. Long.
60 20' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Only the type known.
It is interesting as forming with the following species a transition towards Cyrtocharax which embraces species with very small scales 100 or more in the 1.
1.
Sardinha the native name.
Charax goeldii sp.
nov.
Fig.
22.
Head 2 depth 2 D. ii 9 A. iv 41 i P. i 15 V. i 7 scales 81 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 6 more on latter about 18 scales above 1.
1. 18 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 19 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin about 31 predorsal scales to occipital process head width 2 in its length head depth at occiput If snout 3 eye 3 maxillary 1 interorbital 4 first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 3 lower caudal lobe Ij pectoral If ventral 2.
Body well compressed elongate rather slenderly ovoid in contour and lower profile a little more evenly convex than upper greatest 1913.
569 depth at dorsal origin.
Postventral constricted though not trenchant and predorsal with slight median ridge.
Other edges of bodyconvex.
Caudal peduncle well compressed least depth about equals its length.
Head well compressed rather deep triangular in profile with lower profile slightly more inclined upper profile a little concave and flattened head sides a little approximated below.
Snout with upper profile nearl.y straight surface convex and its length  its width.
Eye rounded a little ellipsoid slightly elevated and its centre about first f in head.
Pupil large rounded.
Eyelids free Fig.
22.
 Charax goeldii Fowler.
Type.
not adiposelike.
Mouth large well inclined opens in front about level with middle of eye completely closes.
Lips thin firm little developed.
Maxillary large well inclined free most of its distal length which extends down below and a little behind posterior eye edge and distal expansion about If in eye.
Teeth in bands in jaws largely irregularly biserial conic sharppointed closeset and mostly uniform.
Maxillary with its entire lower edge furnished Avith continuation of teeth of upper jaw in similar disposition.
Sides of mandible with teeth mostly uniserial and inconspicuous.
Upper jaw with 2 pairs of canines and mandible with 3 pairs ofwhich symphyseal pair wideset.
Each jaw also with several smaller additional canines.
No palatine teeth.
Tongue rather small depressed rather spatulate rounded and free in front.
Inner 38 buccal folds broad.
Mandible large when closed included within upper jaw rather shallow and rami not elevated inside mouth.
Nostrils large together close before eye anterior simple pore and posterior larger crescentic.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Preorbital narrow.
Infraorbital broad its width extends over f of cheek surface smooth or with but few papillae.
Preopercle with ridge and hind edge smooth latter sloping slightly posteriorly.
Opercle deep with few papillae and hind edge slightly emarginate above.
Head with welldeveloped fontanel above extending from between frontals medianly to occipital process.
Latter short and slenderly triangular.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite first  in eye.
Rakers IV 36 II slender lanceolate rather asperous about  of eye diameter and about twice length of filaments.
Isthmus slender and constricted rather narrow and elongate surface smooth.
Branchiostegals slender rather long.
Scales very small well exposed in longitudinal series mostly parallel with 1.
I. each roughened with six or more minute prickles or thornlike denticles.
Along predorsal and on caudal base scales crowded or smaller.
Greater portion of anal base anteriorly with a series of scales becoming inconspicuous posteriorly.
Ventral axil with short free pointed scaly flap.
L. 1. complete straight and nearly median along sides to caudal base medianly.
Tubes simple each well exposed or extend to hind edge of scale.
Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base first branched ray longest and depressed fin extends If to caudal base.
Adipose fin inserted near last third in space between snout tip and caudal base.
Anal inserted a little behind dorsal origin or about midway between front pupil edge and caudal base first branched ray longest and with anterior rays forming slight elevated lobe.
Caudal well forked lobes pointed and subequal.
Pectoral low pointed upper rays longest and extends  to anal.
Ventral inserted trifle nearer anal origin than that of pectoral and extends back slightly beyond front of anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally sides and lower surface paler.
Head above and back above shaded with closeset pale dusky dots and on trunk above anal base and at caudal other similar dots at former region wideset and at latter region comprise an area nearly large as eye.
Above 1.
1. close behind head dusky spot about size of pupil.
Lower surface of head whitish.
Iris slaty.
Fins all grayish lower ones more whitish.
Length 56 mm.
Type No.
39308 A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
Only the type known.
It differs from Charax sardina in the entire lower preopercular edge and presence of a humeral and caudal dark spot.
Named for Dr. Emilio A. Goeldi Director of the Museo Paraense and author of numerous works on the natural history of Brazil.
LORIOARIIDiB.
PLECOSTOMIX.E.
Plecostomus madeirae sp.
nov.
Fig.
23.
Head measured to hind edge of occipital process 3f  depth 5 D. I 7 A. I 4 P. i 6 V. i 5 lateral scutes from pectoral axilla 28 to caudal base and 2 more on latter 5 scutes between dorsal base and that of anal 3 predorsal scutes head width equals its length when measured from occipital process medianly behind head depth at occiput If snout If eye 5 mouth width 4f mandibular ramus 6 interorbital 2f  dorsal spine 1 anal spine 2j adipose fin 2f lower caudal lobe 1 pectoral spine 1 ventral spine If.
Body elongate well depressed deepest at dorsal origin and tapering back to moderate compressed caudal peduncle which has least depth about equal to its length.
Head large well depressed lower surface flattened with sides sloping up for about  greatest width of head leaving wide and slightly convex occipital region.
Snout broad slopes down evenly and slightly convex all around and its length f its width opposite front edges of eyes.
Eye slightly ellipsoid well elevated centre falling about  in head length as measured to occipital process.
Pupil small vertically ellipsoid.
Mouth moderately wide anterior below.
Buccal disk deeply ellipsoid its transverse diameter about equals snout length its posterior edge finely and rather evenly notched its entire extent and its front edge with a row of fleshy papillae.
Inside of jaws and surface of lower lip outside with large and rather conspicuous papilla on latter those median best developedUpper jaw with one large median conspicuous fleshy papilla inside teeth.
Teeth slender uniserial long bent over at ends bifid 20 in upper jaw and 30 in lower one of bifurcations always shorter and smaller than other.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue fleshy 572 Oct. broad.
Each corner laterally of buccal disk ends in slender barbel about equal to eye in length.
Nostrils large together dividing frenum falls about last third in snout socket a little less than that of snout and both falling within confines of interorbital space.
Anterior nostril simple pore with cutaneous flap behind forming valve completely covering slightly larger posterior nostril.
Interorbital broadly and slightly concave thus supraorbital ridges slightly Fig.
23.
 Plecostomus madeirce Fowler.
Type.
elevated.
Very slight median occipital ridge though hind edge of latter broadly triangular.
Opercle large extremely porous.
Gillopening small lateral very oblique and extends forward only opposite last fourth of eye.
Isthmus very broad its width trifle less than combined snout and eye lengths.
Body everywhere minutely spinulose.
Scutes scarcely carinate on back excepting uppermost series extending along each side of dorsal base to adipose fin.
Fourth or inferior lateral row of scutes become well carinate below adipose fin.
Nine scutes between dorsal and adipose fin.
Occipital process bordered by median scute behind and two others on each side.
Edge of gillopening bordered with slightly enlarged spinules.
Lower surface of head and abdomen covered with small granular scales all densely and minutely spinulose.
Fin spines all spinulose those on outer and inner edges of pectoral both larger and forming rather regular rows former enlarged distally.
Outer surfaces of fin rays minutely spinulose.
L. I. evident as 8 simple small pores extending back from opercle.
Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than adipose fin origin and depressed spine extends back about half way in length of last depressed ray.
Adipose fin strong spine If to caudal base inserted near last third in space between dorsal origin and caudal base.
Anal inserted well behind dorsal base or about midway between dorsal origin and caudal base weak spine nearly long as subequal rays and depressed fin extends about half way to caudal base.
Caudal moderate well emarginate behind and lower lobe slightly longer.
Pectoral spine large depressed reaches back slightly beyond ventral origin rays slender.
Ventral inserted just behind first dorsal ray base spine moderate and tapering to flexible point which extends back opposite anal origin.
Vent at last  in space between ventral origin and that of anal.
Color in alcohol brown above lower surface paler or more whitish  faded creamy.
Iris slaty pupil darker and light spot below.
Head above entirely dotted with deep brown dots closeset and numerous.
Back and costal region above marked with rounded deep brown spots all larger than on head several on each of anterior scutes though only one to a scute on body posteriorly.
Dorsal fin with 4 to 6 small rounded blackish spots on each ray these well contrasted or very distinct those on spine less so.
Caudal with about 8 rows of dusky spots on rays.
Pectoral and ventral spotted obscurely with brownish.
Anal whitish.
Posterior sides of body from above ventral origin to lower caudal lobe immaculate and whitish.
Length 105 mm.
Type No.
39312 A. N. S. P. Madeira River about 200 miles east of W. Long.
63 54' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Only the type known.
It appears to be most closely related to Plecostomus cordovce Gtinther differing somewhat in the coloration as all the spots on the fins are on the fin rays in the present species.
11 Anw.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. London 5 VI 1880 p. 11.
Cordova Argentina. '
Regan Trans.
Zool.
Soc London XVII 1904 p. 212 PI.
9 fig.
3.
Cordova.
P. cordovcE has but a single scute bordering the supraoccipital on each side behind while the present species has two.
P. cordovce has the mandibular ramus U in the interorbital while the present form shows it 2.
Named for the Madeira River.
LORICARIIN.
Farlowella smithi sp.
nov.
Fig.
24.
Head measured to hind edge of gillopening 4 depth about 3 in head D. i 6 A. i 5 P. i 6 V. i 5 scutes 34 in lateral series medianly from opercle to caudal base and one more on latter 3 scutes between dorsal and anal origins 7 predorsal scutes to supraoccipital head width 3 in its length head depth at occiput 4 snout 1 interorbital 4 dorsal spine If anal spine If pectoral spine 2 ventral spine 3.
Body slenderly elongate greatly depressed greatest depth at occiput and that at dorsal and ventral origins slightly less.
Caudal peduncle extremely elongate depressed.
Head moderately long depressed as seen from above rapidly tapering into elongate and slender rostrum.
Snout depressed its basal width 2f in its length.
Eye small rounded slightly ellipsoid high well posterior in head and 2 in interorbital.
Mouth moderately broad placed about last third in head width of disk about equals interorbital.
Disk of mouth rounded edge finely and minutely fringed all around.
Surface of lower lip finely papillose.
Within upper jaw medianly large fleshy papilla.
Teeth slender bent over at ends bifid about 50 in upper jaw and 40 in lower.
Upper buccal fold inside mouth broad.
Mandibular ramus about 2f in interorbital.
Nostrils together anterior with elevated cutaneous rim and about half conceals equalsized posterior placed just before eyes with internasal space about half that of interorbital.
Interorbital wide very slightly convex.
Opercle about twice eye diameter surface obsoletely rugose.
Gillopening small very oblique extends forward about opposite middle of eye.
Isthmus broad depressed width about equals that of mouth disk.
Scutes all minutely spinulose.
Down back medianly from occipital to plate just before dorsal origin which entire narrow nonspinulose strip.
After dorsal this narrow naked strip continued to caudal also similar one on lower surface of caudal peduncle from behind anal to origin of lower caudal lobe.
Costal plates form obsolete lengthwise ridges becoming confluent at their fusion below dorsal and resulting single lateral keel extends along each side to caudal.
Lower edges of head and edges of rostrum with elongated clusters of spinules all rather distinct and larger than elsewhere.
Scutes 22 behind dorsal.
Belly with single median series of plates between lateral series.
Between pectoral bases 4 scutes.
L. 1 developed only as series of about 14 pores in sutures one to each of costal plates.
Dorsal inserted nearer snout tip than caudal base by length of snout spine slender minutely spinulose longest of radii.
Anal Fig.
24.
 Farloioella smithi Fowler.
Type.
inserted slightly behind dorsal origin otherwise similar to dorsal.
Caudal moderate deeply emarginate and uppermost and lowermost ray each enlarged and produced into slender filaments but little less than length of trunk.
Pectoral with flexible slender minutely spinulose spine longer than other radii and not quite reaching ventral origin.
Ventral inserted about midway between pectoral and anal origins spine moderately robust and minutely spinulose longer than other rays and reaches f to anal origin.
Vent placed midway between ventral and anal origins.
Color in alcohol pale graybrown generally abdomen belly and lower surface of head more or less whitish.
Rostrum brownish above and below.
Iris slaty.
Along side of head narrow obscure brownish streak extends back from side of rostrum to nasal cavity and another  similar one forks out below eye to opercle.
Fins all largely pale.
or whitish.
Caudal whitish filaments grayish and along upper concurrently blackish streak.
Along side of caudal peduncle at junction of each scute small rounded whitish spot.
Length to caudal base 100 mm. to end of caudal filaments 173 mm.
Type No.
39313 A. N. S. P. Madeira River about 200 miles east of W. Long.
62 20' Brazil.
1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Also No.
39314 A. N. S. P. paratype.
Tributary of the Madeira River near Porto Velho Brazil.
JanuaryFebruary 1913.
Edgar A. Smith.
This specimen is quite small though is apparently the young.
Only the above examples known.
The species is related to Farlowella gladuis Boulenger Farlowella oxyrhynchus Kner' and Farlowella natter eri Steindachner. From the first two it differs in the larger eye and in the shorter pectoral and presence of four scutes between the pectoral origins.
Named for Mr. Edgar A.
Smith.
OIOHLID.
.Equidens madeirae sp.
nov.
Fig.
25.
Head 3yV depth 2 D. xvi 9 i A. in 8 P. i 14 V. i 5 scales 18 in upper branch of 1.
1. 4 scales between spinous dorsal origin and 1.
1. 2 scales between rayed dorsal origin and 1.
1. 6 scales obliquely back from anal origin to beginning of lower branch of 1.
1. 9 predorsal scales head width 1 in its length head depth at occiput 1 snout 3yo eye 3 maxillary 4 interorbital 3 mandible 2f  sixth dorsal spine 2 sixteenth dorsal spine 2 fifth dorsal ray If third anal spine 2 fourth ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 2 caudal 1 pectoral lyV ventral 1.
Body rather ovoid in contour well compressed back well elevated with upper profile more convex than lower profile and greatest depth about opposite tip of depressed ventral spine tip.
Body edges all rounded convexly except very obsolete median predorsal keel.
Caudal peduncle well compressed about long as deep.
Head moderate well compressed upper profile more inclined than lower very slightly concave before eye above and lower profile little inclined.
Sides of head slightly convex and sloping off in  Acestra gladius Boulenger Trans.
Zool.
Soc London XIV 1897 p. 425 PI.
41 fig.
2.
Rio Jurua.
 Acestra oxyrhynchus Kner Denk.
Ak.
Wiss. Wien VI 1853 p. 95 PI.
8 fig.
2.
1 Annul.
Naturh.
Hofmus. Wien 1910 p. 403.
Middle Amazon possibly Rio Negro.
similar convex fashion above and below.
Snout convex over surface and in profile and its length about f its width.
Eye circular well elevated close to upper profile and hind pupil edge about midway in head length.
Eyelid free narrow.
Pupil circular.
Mouth rather small a little broad commissure slightly inclined forward.
Muzzle rather prominent somewhat protruded downward and jaws equal.
Premaxillaries very protractile.
Maxillary narrow extends about f in snout length and largely concealed by preorbital.
Lips moderate fleshy firm at corners of mouth form rather thick Fig.
25.
 Mquidens madeirce Fowler.
Type.
fold.
Jaws with an outer series of slightly enlarged conical curved teeth followed by a moderate inner band of smaller villiform teeth.
No other teeth.
Upper buccal folds present inside mouth moderate lower not developed.
Tongue thick fleshy rather conic end not free.
Mandible shallow rami low surface convex.
Nostrils small anterior trifle larger about last f in snout length and posterior small pore opposite front eye edge above within interorbital.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Hind preopercle edge slightly undulated inclined forward its entire extent minutely serrated.
Membrane along hind edge of gillopening narrow.
Gillopening extends forward about midway in head.
Rakers 17 short weak fleshy stumps about 4 in filaments and latter 2 in eye.
No pseudobranchiae.
Isthmus constricted until extremely narrow in front convex broadly behind.
Branchiostegals rather long narrow subequal.
Scales rather large well exposed finely ctenoid in longitudinal series and slightly smaller on breast than elsewhere on trunk.
Fins scaleless except caudal base and that covered with numerous small scales.
Head largely naked except 4 series of scales on cheek 6 rows on opercular region and scaly occipital region.
No pointed axillary scaly flaps.
Mandible below with 4 pores on each ramus and along preopercular edge 4 more large pores.
L. 1. interrupted below front of soft dorsal begins at shoulder and curves up until level with upper eye edge and then sloping gradually and slightly down rest of its course.
Lower portion of 1.
1. begins opposite end of upper about level with lower eye edge straight or horizontal and extending out on caudal base.
Tubes simple well exposed and mostly extending to hind edges of scales.
Spinous dorsal inserted nearer snout tip than first third of space comprised in combined head and trunk length spines graduated up to sixth after which all subequally a trifle shorter to last.
Edge of spinous dorsal deeply notched tip of each spine with a welldeveloped cutaneous flap.
Rayed dorsal with median rays longest forming rather welldefined point begins before end of upper 1.
1. and edge entire.
Spinous anal inserted opposite fourteenth dorsal spine base or a trifle nearer ventral origin than caudal base spines graduated up to third which longest membranes notched and tip of each spine with a welldeveloped free cutaneous flap.
Rayed anal like rayed dorsal though origin of fin slightly before origin of rayed dorsal.
Caudal with hind edge convex median rays longest.
Pectoral large rather long reaches about  to anal.
Ventral inserted about midway between snout tip and anal origin in vertical entirely behind pectoral base when depressed not quite reaching anal and rather strong spine about If in fin.
Vent placed at last sixth in space between ventral and anal origins.
Color in alcohol with groundcolor brownish above or on back becoming paler below more or less whitish on under surface of head breast and belly.
Head brownish above like back.
Duskybrown bar broader than pupil extends up each side of snout from mouth to eye bordered above and below with paler of which latter most contrasted.
From upper hind eye edge dark streak narrower and continued to suprascapula.
From lower eye edge till down behind nd of maxillary pale brownish streak narrower than pupil in width and also with pale lower border.
Opercle and cheek brownish.
Predorsal scales and those on back above 1.
1. with pale brownish lengthwise streaks over or between upper and lower boundaries of scale exposures.
Back with eight duskybrown saddles gradually smaller until only evident as viewed from above at caudal peduncle though four extend slightly below course of upper 1.
1.
Illdefined dusky streak along middle of side extends to caudal base medianly marked with six duskybrown large blotches through its extent and these alternating with dorsal saddles.
At caudal base median lateral band reflected out on median caudal rays.
Iris slaty though traversed by dark band from snout.
Dorsals grayish spinous fin very obscurely mottled sparsely with paler and on rayed fin 5 or 6 transverse broad whitish streaks form.
Caudal except as noted pale with several series of dark spots on membranes most distinct within dark area distally extending from lateral streak.
Other fins all pale grayish.
Length 68 mm.
Type No.
39315 A. N. S. P. Igarape de Candelaria tributary of the Madeira River approximately two miles distant in Lat.
S. 8 45' W.
Long. 63 54' Brazil.
September 1912.
Edgar A. Smith.
Only the type obtained.
It is related to Mquidens tetramerus Heckel in the 4 series of scales on the cheek and scaleless preopercle characters shared equally with .
rivulatus Giinther and .
geayi Pellegrin.
It differs from all however in coloration.
Named for the Madeira River.
TETRODONTID .
ColomeSUS psittaCUS Schneider.
Three small examples from the Madeira River about 200 miles .east of W. Long.
63 54' Brazil.
September 1912.
November 4.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Nine persons present.
The presentation of a paper entitled  Contribution to the xnatomy of the Ilysiidae by Joseph C. Thompson Surgeon U. S. N. was reported.
The death of Philip R. Uhler a member October 21 was announced.
November 18.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. in the Chair.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under the following titles    On the Orthoptera found on the Florida Keys and in extreme Southern Florida.
II.
By James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard November 7.
Notes on some Costa Rica Arachnida.
By Nathan Banks November 14.
The Chair announced the death of Prof. Arnim Balzer a correspondent November 4 1913.
The following were elected members Harvey Stamp M.D.
Herbert H. Gushing M.D.
J. Ewing Mears M.D.
The meeting was held in association with the Biological and Microscopical Section.
The Collecting and Preparation of Diatoms.
 Mr. T. Chalkley Palmer prefacing his remarks on collection and preparation of diatoms deplored the threatened extinction of the amateur especially in branches of science involving the use of the microscope.
He mentioned illustrious amateurs both living and dead whose work has added greatly to our knowledge of nature.
The abundance of diatoms in clear waters was indicated and apparatus useful in making collections were exhibited and described.
Methods of separating diatoms into pure condition were explained in outline and those depending on motile activity were emphasized as preferable in many cases to chemical treatments and laborious decantations.
Sedentary forms such as Synedra growing on algae etc. may often be separated by exposing the gathering to sunlight when the diatoms fall off the buoyant mass and deposit as a perfectly clean layer on the bottom of the bottle.
Filamentous forms may usually be cleaned by gentle agitation in distilled water exposure to sunlight causing flotation and by other similar means.
Motile forms if in gelatinous aggregates as Cijmbella Gotnphonema are put into a Petri dish with distilled water and permitted to wander out of the unpromising aggregate into thin films or pure groupings on the bottom of the vessel.
Unequal lighting of the dish will generally cause preponderant groupings toward the light.
The clean frustules are transferred to watchglasses of distilled water working with a capillary pipette and lowpower binocular microscope.
Tenacious or leathery layers of Nitzschia on stones in rapid waters are cut off with a knife and after freeing from detachable mud are left in a small flat bottle of distilled water for 24 hours.
The diatoms expand on the upright glass walls especially upon the lighted side into thin coherent films of great purity detachable with a sharp needle or similar instrument.
Larger Naviculse not coherent but aggregated in patches on the bottom of a spring are lifted with as little mud as possible and separated from organic and inorganic flocculence in the same bottle and a separation in course of Pinnularia was exhibited in which the large frustules could be seen with the aid of a pocket lens expanding on the glass.
Distilled water if well aerated and uncontaminated with metals especially copper seems to stimulate the desired activities.
The diatoms having been segregated by such means they are transferred with a capillary pipette to a clean coverglass dried and burned to whiteness.
The glass is supported on a thin piece of platinum which in turn rests on a piece of fireclay ground flat.
The fireclay is heated to bright redness with a gas burner the platinum showing only a faint glow.
In about fifteen minutes the frustules are free from organic matter and the mount may be made in the usual way with Canada balsam or styrax.
The biological method of cleaning apart from its facility in handling sparse or unpromising material gives opportunity for interesting observations on the living diatoms.
On Diatoms of Philadelphia.
 Mr Charles S. Boyer described the diatomaceous fiora of Philadelphia stating that he was able to add seventyone names to the catalogue of species heretofore recorded.
Some are entirely new to the United States while others are quite rare.
Among these may be mentioned Actmocyclus barkleyi aggregatu Rattr. Navicula placenta Ehr. Polymyxus coronalis L. W. Bail Amphiprora conspicua Grev. Nitzschia clausii Hantzsch.
Brackish and marine forms occur in the blueclay deposits in various parts of the city.
Other rare species were described.
The entire flora of the city and immediate vicinity numbers probably three hundred distinct species.
Illustrations of many diatoms were shown including some of those found in the city water supply.
The Critical Point in Liquids.
 Mr. Hugo Bilgram remarked that of the various inclusions found in quartz those of liquid dioxide of carbon are among the most interesting.
Within more or less irregular microscopic cavities are inclosed three distinctly visible fluids water liquid dioxide and within this a bubble of dioxide vapor.
When the temperature is raised the liquid dioxide is turned into vapor and the bubble disappears.
Upon cooling the object the vapor bubble suddenly reappears.
In many cases not a single but a number of bubbles make their appearance making it look as if the inclusion were boiling.
How is this phenomenon to be explained
It is well known that water boils when heated to 100 degrees Celsius but if exposed to a reduced pressure its boiling point is lower and if exposed to a pressure higher than that of the atmosphere the boiling point is higher.
If the relation of the vapor pressure to the temperature is represented by a curve it can be seen that at a point somewhat over 300 degrees the pressure curve extends to infinity.
This shows that above this temperature water cannot exist in liquid form no matter how high the pressure and this degree of heat is termed the critical point.
All volatile liquids show the same peculiarity but the critical point is different for different liquids.
That of dioxide of carbon is in the neighborhood of 28 degrees Celsius and the phenomena above described present the change of dioxide of carbon from the liquid to the gaseous state and vice versa at a temperature which is near the critical point.
From the peculiar features of the phenomena very interesting inferences can be derived.
There is a sharp distinction between fluids and gases as we know them the principal differences being in relation to elasticity cohesion and expansion by heat.
While gases are highly compressible and have a high coefficient of expansion by heat compressibility of liquids is very slight and expansion by heat not very great.
While gases readily expand if the space of their confinement is increased liquids maintain their volume.
In gases there is a total absence of cohesion while in the case of liquids the molecules cohere.
When water or any other liquid is converted into steam the change from the liquid to the vapor state is abrupt.
But the phenomena exhibited by the dioxide inclusions indicate that when a liquid is heated to its critical point and is finally converted into a gas it gradually passes from one to the other state.
A slight rise in temperature causes the inclosed bubbles rapidly to diminish in size indicating a high expansion coefficient of the liquid portion.
After the bubbles have disappeared a further advance of temperature does not burst the walls of the cavity showing the liquid to be compressible.
In cooling the bubble or bubbles suddenly appear of a definite size instead of growing from a mere point.
Before that moment the contents of the cavity are no doubt in a liquid condition otherwise bubbles could not be seen.
By cooling the prevailing high pressure is reduced until it falls below the vapor pressure of the dioxide corresponding to the temperature and there is a tendency to form a small bubble.
But its formation is resisted by the cohesion of the molecules.
Only after the prevailing pressure has been lowered so much that the excess of the vapor pressure is competent to overcome cohesion will a sudden rupture take place attended by an instantaneous reduction of the volume of the liquid due to the sudden increase of pressure.
This accounts for the sudden appearance of bubbles at a definite size.
We can therefore conclude that a liquid when near its critical point is in a state that is intermediate between the liquid and the gaseous states.
Mr. Van Sickle described a method of making detailed labels for microscopic slides by photographic reduction.
The following was ordered to be printed
