NOTES ON SOME COSTA RICAN ARACHNIDA BY NATHAN BANKS.
In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for 1909 pp.
194234 I published a list of Arachnida from Costa Rica kindly sent me for determination by Prof. Tristan and Dr. Biolley.
Since then Prof. Tristan has sent a further consignment of these animals and Prof. Calvert has sent me the Arachnids collected during his trip in that country May 1909 to May 1910 .
The following notes are based on these collections.
The types from the material sent by Prof. Calvert are in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia the others are in the author's collection.
DRASSID.
ZIMIROMUS n. gen. A Drassid eyes as figured both rows strongly procurved A.. M. E. larger than the other eyes lip nearly square maxillae long and impressed a black ridge on the outer tip inner tip with brush of black hairs a short dorsal groove spinnerets similar to Zimiris legs slender with spines trochanter about onehalf the length of the coxa claws distinctly toothed.
Differs from the other Prodidomoid Drassids in the strongly procurved eyerows and large A. M. E. Zimiromus fragilis n. sp.
PL XXVIII fig.
9.
Cephalothorax mandibles and sternum pale yellowish legs very pale femora darker abdomen gray nearly lack above unmarked with stiff black hairs at base.
Legs slender with only a few spines on anterior pairs more numerous on the hind legs the latter much longer than the abdomen.
Vulva large a long cavity containing a pale transversely ridged tongue.
Length 5 mm.
From Turrialba Costa Rica Tristan.
Teminius conjuncta n. sp.
Pl.
XXVIII fig.
2.
Cephalothorax mandibles and sternum dark reddishbrown legs more yellowish blacker on femora above and more redbrown on the tarsi and metatarsi I and II abdomen dark gray with black hair.
Cephalothorax moderately long much narrowed in front legs rather stout tarsi and metatarsi I and II heavily scopulate beneath tibia I with one apical spine beneath tibia II with an apical spine and one near the middle no spines above on tibise III or IV but several below and on sides.
Posterior eyerow barely procurved M. E. scarcely oval slightly more than their diameter apart and about twice as far from the equal laterals.
Anterior eyerow procurved all large M. E. less than their diameter apart .and about half as far from the slightly smaller laterals.
Length 12 mm.
From St. Maria Dota Costa Rica Tristan.
CLUBIONIDiE.
Clubiona tigrina Cambridge.
Near Hacienda Guachipelin Guanacaste 1700 feet.
Jan. 15 1910 Calvert.
Chemmis punctigera Cambr.
PI.
XXVIII fig.
8.
This form may be distinct from C. frederid Simon the figure I give of the vulva agrees better with that given by the elder CamIridge for this species and is quite unlike that given by the younger Cambridge for C. frederici the markings are broken up into small spots.
Turrialba Costa Rica Tristan.
Juan Vifias clearing near Rio Reventazon May 3 1910 Calvert.
Pelayo insignis Bka.
PI.
XXVIII fig.
14.
A female of this species from St. Maria Dota Costa Rica vulva .as shown in figure  the basal median mark of the abdomen is broken up into three spots and the apical mark contains a transverse pale spot.
Anypliaena pretiosa n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII fig.
4.
Pale yellowish a dark stripe each side on the cephalothorax many small dark spots on abdomen in the middle behind they unite to form a series of chevrons a dark spot at base of the tibiae tibiae I and II with four pairs of spines leneath.
Mandibles vertical each with two dark lines in front.
A.
M. E. much smaller than the other eyes.
Vulva as figured.
Length 5 mm.
From St. Maria Dota Costa Rica Tristan.
Anyphaena furcatella n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII fig.
5.
Pale yellowish a faint dark stripe each side on the cephalothorax legs very long and slender and with very long spines coxae all unarmed.
A. M. E. very much smaller than the other eyes mandibles slender vertical the tibia of the male palpus is broad and at tip with two acute projections one of which has a short upper spur.
A female which may belong to the same species is unmarked and has a vulva as figured.
Length 5 mm.
From St. Maria Dota Costa Rica Tristan.
Sillns putUS Cambridge.
Cache March 7 1910 Calvert.
AGBLENIDJE.
Agelsena sp.
Juan Viiias 3200 feet in a bromeliad April 26 1910 a young specimen Calvert.
THERIDIID.
Theridion bioUeyi Banks.
PI.
XXVIII fig.
7.
The palpus of the male previously unknown is shown in figure the markings are similar to those of the female.
Lithyphantes lugubris Cambr.
From Cache March 9 1910 Calvert.
BPEIRID.
Edricus tricuspis Getaz.
Unknown to the Biologia one female from Juan Vinas farther waterfall 29 Sept. 1909 Calvert.
A figure of the dorsum is given the abdomen is shorter than in E. crassicauda.
The length 5 mm. given in the Biologia is wrong as Getaz says the abdomen is 9 mm.
long.
Tetragnatha alba Cambridge.
Santa Cruz Jan. 20 1910 and Quebrada de Panteon de Liberia Jan. 12 1910 both in Guanacaste Calvert.
Tetragnatha antillana Simon.
Cache stream through coffee plantation March 3 1910 Calvert Tetragnatha guatemalensis Cambridge.
Banana River region Nov. 410 1910 Calvert.
Tetragnatha mexicana Keyserling.
Juan Vinas laguna 3300 feet Feb. 18 1910 Calvert.
Tetragnatha tenuissima Cambridge.
Juan Vinas Feb. 15 1910 Calvert.
Leucauge hortornm Hentz.
Juan Vinas laguna Oct. 5 1909 Calvert.
Singa dotana n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII fig.
1.
Cephalothorax wholly pale yellowish also the mandibles palpi and sternum legs with deep black bands on apices of all femora on tips and partly on sides of patellae and a fine dot near middle and tip of tibiae.
Abdomen gray with some irregular blackish patches on the basal part and many silvery white spots above and below each side of the spinnerets is a jetblack spot.
Abdomen much broader than long and concave behind.
Length 3 mm. width of the abdomen 3 mm.
From St. Maria Dota Costa Rica Tristan.
Related to S. abbreviata but distinct by markings and shape of the vulva.
Argiope argentata Fabricius.
Alajuela Sept. 9 1909 Calvert.
Mangora trilineata Cambridge.
Juan Vinas 2500 feet.
May 3 1910 3300 feet Oct. 5.
1909 Calvert.
Mangora picta Cambridge.
Juan Vinas Reventazon Valley 2500 feet in unrolled Heliconia leaves.
May 1 1910 Calvert.
Acrosoma inaequalis Cambridge.
Near Cartago Feb. 1910 Juan Vinas 3300 feet July 27 and Sept. 29 1909 Calvert.
Acrosoma 12spinosa Keyseriing.
Alajuela Sept. 6 1909 Calvert.
Gasteraoantha koohi Butler.
Juan Vinas ''farther waterfall Sept. 29 1909 Calvert.
SPARASSID.
Selenops mexioana Keyseriing.
Pefia Blanca Rio Naranjo Valley near Cache in arboricolous bromeUad March 9 1910 Calvert.
OTENID.
Cupiennius coccineus Cambr.
Described from Panama one from Peha Blanca near Cache in arboricolous bromeliad 19 March 1910 Calvert.
Cupiennius griseus Cambridge.
Juan Vinas April 29 1910 one specimen in house Calvert.
Treohalea oonvexa Cambridge.
Quebrada de Salas east of Atenas Station Pacific Railroad April 8 1910 Quebrada Clara north of Liberia' Guanacaste Jan. 13 1910 immersed itself clinging to rock face Calvert.
Ctenus sp.
Juan Yifias 3200 feet in arboricolous bromeliad April 26 1910 one immature specimen Calvert.
Tinus nigrinus Cambridge.
Rio Liberia and Quebrada de Panteon Liberia Guanacaste Jan. 11 and 12 1910 along the banks wings etc. of Odonata Hetcerina Argia and Perithemis  in its webs one female with its ggball Calvert.
LYOOSIDiE.
Xycosa brevitarsis Cambridge.
Near Hacienda Guachipelin Guanacaste 1700 feet Jan. 15 1910 Calvert.
Pardosa sp.
Crater of Volcano Irazu 10880 feet April 1 1910 one young specimen Calvert.
OXYOPIDiE.
Oxyopeidon molestum Cambr.
Juan Villas near Rio Reventazon May 3 1910 Calvert.
ATTID.
Dendryphantes maxillosus Cambr.
From Juan Vinas July 1909 Calvert.
Cobanus mandibnlaris Peck.
From Banana River region 4 Nov. 1909 Calvert.
Sidusa fulvoguttata Cambridge.'
Juan Vinas 3200 feet in arboricolons bromeliad April 26 1910 Calvert.
Thiodina retarius Hentz.
Juan Vinas 2 .500 feet near Rio Reventazon March 21 1910 Calvert.
PHALANQID.
Hernandria ventralis n. sp.
Black ventral segments with silvery basal band also silvery on sides of the posterior segments.
Eyetubercle smooth with two small granules each side above dorsal scutum divided into three transverse parts each with a pair of pale spots the first part also divided on the middle line  the surface of scutum smooth  posterior segments each with a transverse row of granules a median one on the third segment much larger than the others legs especially the hind pair with rows of granules bearing fine hairs a large spur above on tip of coxa IV tarsal joints 5 6 8 6.
Palpi with long bristles tibia and tarsus each with four on outer side the first and third long the others very short.
Length 6 mm.
From St. Maria Dota Costa Rica Tristan.
The silvery bands on the venter are very characteristic.
Cynorta biputtata Cambridge.
i La Emilia near Rio Santa Clara 980 feet Nov. 1719 and Juan Villas 3300 feet Oct. 1 1909 in bromeliads Calvert.
Cynorta flavornata n. sp.
Dark brown sides reticulate with yellowish and emitting branches to middle of the body two dots on the eyetubercle two large  yellow spots above on the anal segment almost touching each other  a large yellow spot on each hind coxa legs pale densely marked with fine black lines.
Dorsum with a pair of low basal acute tubercles and a pair of long spines behind not onehalf their length apart and with very slender tips surface of dorsum and posterior segments without granules.
Femur IV twice as long as the width of body and plainly longer than length of body tarsal joints six fourteen nine and ten first three of tarsus I enlarged.
Length 6 mm. hind femur 10 mm.
From San Jose Costa Rica Tristan.
Cynorta longispina Cambridge.
La Emilia in epiphytic bromeliad Nov. 16 1909 Calvert.
Cynorta oculata n. sp.
Redbrown legs pale finely maculate with black dorsum with four white rings surrounding the four tubercles venter with two of the basal segments pale on the middle of hind margin last segment with white mark each side white spot surrounding the spiracles and a white stripe above coxae IV.
Dorsum smooth with four humps the basal pair low and blunt the apical pair high but more 1 Mr. Banks has recently reexamined a couple of specimens from the same bromeliad quoted on page 405 of volume XXII of Entomological News as Cynorta sp. and writes The Phalangids are young Cynorta have long palpi when mature palpi are very much shorter.
I cannot be sure of species looks like C. albomaculata Cambr. which is common in Costa Rica.
The locality whence these specimens came was Juan Vinas Oct. 3 and 4 1909.  P. P Calvert.
45 than twice their height apart and each with a rounded tip tarsal joints 6 14 9 10 hind coxae with a few granules on outer side.
Length 5.5 mm. femur II 10 mm.
 femur IV 9 mm.
From Ste.
Maria Dota Costa Rica Tristan.
Cynorta oonspersa n. sp.
Related to C. flavornata with large yellow spot on outer side of each hind coxa and small dots on the eyeeminence and a pair of large spots behind on last segment these last marks however are plainly made up of three spots joined together.
The dorsum has a great number of small rounded yellow dots often marking an elevation these are most numerous on the sides two in front of eyeeminence on the front margin.
The posterior spines are more slender than in C. flavornata and more than their length apart there are no anterior humps.
The tarsal joints are 6 13 9 11  femora II and IV are much longer than the body second joint of mandible scabrous above the palpal joints not as broad as in that species.
.
Length 5 mm.
 femur I 8 mm.
 femur IV 7 mm.
From Juan Vinas 25003000 feet in arboricolous bromeliads March 20 and 21 1910 Calvert.
STYGNOLEPTES n. gen. A Gonyleptid  the hind coxae larger than others and much broader than first segment of abdomen all coxae distinct hind coxae separated by a triangular plate spiracles distinct.
Palpi not onehalf the length of the body rather slender with bristles all legs short and tarsi with few joints eyetubercle broad and low with a little granule above on each side near eyes.
Cephalothorax small compared to the abdomen the basal dorsal scutum of abdomen undivided by grooves or furrows.
Stygnoleptes analis n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII fig.
6.
Body reddish palpi yellowish legs mostly brown the bases and the articulations pale.
Dorsal surface finely granulate.
The cephalothorax not more than onethird as wide nor more than onefourth as long as the abdomen the dorsal.
scutum of abdomen with serrate sides beyond are four posterior segments in one specimen the third and fourth bear a pair of submedian tubercles about twice their length apart on the anal plate is a long spine projecting behind the body.
The palpi have two bristles on outer edge of both tibia and tarsus and near base of the femur are two situate on tubercles.
The coxae are coarsely granulate the legs short none of the femora more than onehalf the width of the body the hind legs are rather longer than the second pair femora I and II have beneath one or two small spines near tip leg IV is heavier than the others and more coarsely granulate the trochanter has a stout spur a row of spurs beneath on the femur one above near tip of the patella the tibia with one above near base and a very large one below at middle and beyond are two smaller ones all the legs are slightly roughened and provided with very fine short hairs tarsus I has three joints II with six joints III with four joints the basal one as long as others together IV with five joints the basal one the longest.
Length 3.5 mm.
From Turrialba Costa Rica Tristan.
Meterginus signatus Banks.
Juan Vinas in epiphytic bromeliad fourth bromeliad ou Rio Reventazon Road Oct. 3 and 4 1909 Calvert quoted in Ent.
News vol.
XXII p. 405 1911.
Liobunum biolleyi Banks.
Cerro Las Pilas west of Santa Cruz Guanacaste a swarm in a dry brook bed Jan. 21 1910 Calvert.
Liobunum foveolatum Cambridge.
Rio Oro Valley near Cache March 8 1910 a swarm Calvert.
PSBUDOSOORPIONIDA.
Chelanops nodulimanus Tomosv.
On the Harlequin beetle Acrocinus longimanus from Juan Vifias Calvert.
Chelanops uniformis n. sp.
PI.
XXIX fig.
16.
Hard parts reddish brown legs paler.
Body rather long the cephalothorax plainly longer than broad behind narrowed and rounded in front minutely granulate with two transverse furrows the first at about middle surface with many short clavate hairs no eyespots.
The abdominal scutse finely granulate each with about seven clavate hairs behind.
Pedipalpi slender longer than the body trochanter femur and tibia finely granulate and with clavate or subclavate hairs hand smooth and with simple hairs femur fully as long as the cephalothorax nearly straight in front slightly convex behind tibia rather shorter than femur strongly convex on inner basal part outer side more convex near tip hand but little broader than tibia twice as long as broad neither side much convex fingers nearly as long as the hand but little curved legs with some clavate hairs near tip of femora and on the tibia above.
Length 3 mm.
 pedipalpi 3.3 mm.
From bromeliads at La Emilia Juan Vinas and Reventazon Valley below Juan Viiias Costa Rica Oct. and Nov. 1909 March and April 1910 Calvert.
The pedipalpi are very similar to those of CheUfer canestrinii Balzan.
SOORPIONIDA.
Centrurus bicolor Pocock.
One specimen taken in the office of Philadelphia South Farm Banana River district Costa Rica Nov. 7 1909 Calvert.
Centrurus margaritatus Gerv.
From Turrucares August 14 and 15 1909 Calvert.
SOLPUGIDA.
Ammotrecha stoUi Pocock.
Atenas Station Pacific Railroad one specimen running about in bed at hotel April 8 1910 9 P.M. AOARINA.
Canestrinia blattophaga Banks.
From Santa Cruz 21 Jan. 1910 Calvert in a vial with various insects including a large cockroach Archimandrita marmorata Stoll identified by Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn.
Trombidium furcipes n. sp.
PI.
xxx fig.
21.
Red.
Body nearly twice as long as broad broadest at humeri constricted behind the humeri and again at insertion of third legs crista metopica or groove reaching to abdomen with a papilla near posterior third two sessile eyes each side the inner one much the smaller.
Body densely clothed with minute short dense fascicles of hair each arising from a pit so close are these as to give the abdomen a pitted appearance from' above legs with short fine hairs leg I longer than body leg IV plainly shorter and all tarsi at end have a long deep slit in which are located the claws each side of slit the hairs are long and dense so that seen from the side the tarsi appear abruptly clavate at tip and from above appear forked tarsi longer than preceding joint palpi quite long with only short hairs the thumb fusiform and hardly longer than the long claw.
Length 2 mm.
From Juan Vinas Costa Rica June 23 to 29 1910 Calvert.
Ehyncholophus stolli n. sp.
PI.
XXX fig.
22.
Red.
Body about one and twothirds as long as broad broadest at humeri slightly narrowed at insertion of third legs broadly rounded behind clothed with very short dense simple hairs dorsal groove long reaching much behind eyes and with a papilla at about onethird way from end one eye each side.
Legs slender first pair about as long as body second pair very short last joint of leg I about onehalf the length of the preceding last joint of leg IV about onethird of preceding joint palpi with large clavate thumb genital aperture about onehalf its length in front of the small anal aperture the latter with a dark strip reaching out each side.
Length 3.5 mm.
From San Jose Costa Rica Tristan.
TJropoda olavisetosa n. sp.
PI.
XXIX fig.
19.
Yellowish.
Body about one and a half times as long as broad broadest behind middle but not narrowed much in front dorsum with many long stout bristles those around the margin about 15 each side are simple some toward tip are very long four in front are close together in pairs on middle of dorsum the bristles are plainly clavate especially in front those behind hardly so legs rather stout all with few simple bristles hind coxte more approximate than others hardly more than diameter apart venter with an oblique ridge behind hind femur anus about its length in front of margin a pair of bristles behind it.
Length .65 mm.
From Juan Vinas Costa Rica Calvert on the Harlequin beetle Acrocinus longimanus.
Uropoda bisetosa n. sp.
PI.
XXIX fig.
15.
Brownishyellow.
Body about once and twothirds as long as broad broadest rather behind the middle broadly rounded behind in front tapering and near tip with concave margins so that there is a prominent process in front which bears two small bristles dorsum smooth without hairs coxae I rather longer than usual all legs very short and all but leg I stout with few hairs a few spinelike bristles on tarsi epigynum of female more than twice as long as broad narrowed behind anus hardly its length in front of hind .margin behind leg II the peritreme bends suddenly outward and then at once back and bends to leg III.
Length .5 mm.
From Juan Vinas Costa Rica Calvert on the Harlequin beetle Acrocimis longimanus.
Celaenopsis angustus n. sp.
PI.
XXX fig.
20.
Reddishbrown.
Body fully twice as long as broad middle sides nearly parallel tapering and almost pointed behind in front rather concavely narrowed to the rounded front dorsum smooth with a few short scattered bristles these bristles not onehalf as long as distance between them a row of curved bristles over front margin sternum about as long as broad behind a bristle in each anterior corner one each side and a submedian pair behind vulva as figured hind coxae not their diameter apart anus nearly three times its length in front of hind margin a pair of bristles behind it toward tip first legs slender with many fine hairs especially at tip other legs thicker and with few bristles hind legs reaching barely beyond abdomen.
Length .6 mm.
On the Scarabseid Dynastes hercules from Costa Rica Calvert.
Hypoaspis distans n. sp.
PI.
XIX fig.
17.
Yellowish.
Body about twice as long as broad broadest at middle tapering each way but most behind dorsum with a number of short hairs set in hyaline dots and on margin longer hairs some of them very long one each side behind is fully onehalf the width of the body sternal shield rather longer than broad epistome very long and slender legs rather long second pair of male stoutest all with bristles some under leg II spinelike a very long bristle on femur IV much shorter one on femur III in female there is also a very long one on femur II.
Length 1 mm.
On the Scarabseid Dynastes hercules from Costa Rica Calvert.
Explanation of Plates XXVIIIXXX.
Plate XXVIII.
 Fig.
1.
 Singa dotana.
Fig.
2.
 Teminius conjunda vulva.
Fig.
3.
 Zimiromus fragilis spinnerets.
Fig.
4.
 Anyphcena pretiosa vulva.
Fig.
5.
 Anyphaena furcalella palpus.
Fig.
6.
 Stygnoleptes analis leg IV.
Fig.
7.
 Theridion biolleyi palpus.
Fig.
8.
 Chetnmis punctigera vulva.
Fig.
9.
 Zimiromus fragilis eyes.
Fig.
10.
 Anyphcena fiMTcaiella vulva.
Fig.
11.
 Singa dotana vulva.
Fig.
12.
 Zimiromus fragilis vulva.
Fig.
13.
 Stygnoleptes analis palpus.
Fig.
14.
 Pelayo insignis vulva.
Plate XXIX.
 Fig.
15.
 Uropoda bisetosa.
Fig.
16.
 Chelanops uniformis.
Fig.
17.
 Hypoaspis distaiis and epistome.
Fig.
18.
 Chelanops uniformis.
Fig.
19.
 Uropoda clavisetosa and hairs.
Fig.
20.
 Ccelenopsis angustus.
Plate XXX.
 Fig.
21.
 Tromhidium furcipes palpus tarsus and hairs on dorsum.
Fig.
22.
 Rhyncholophus stolli palpus.
Fig.
23.
 Edricus tricuspis.
Fig.
24.
 Rhyncholophus stolli.
Fig.
25.
 Rhtjncholophus stolli legs I and IV.
THE ANATOMY OF TWO BRAZILIAN LAND SHELLS ANOSTOMA DEPRESSITM AND TOMIGERUS CLAUSUS.
BY HAROLD HEATH.
Among the many strange species of Brazilian land shells those belonging to the genus Anostoma and Tomigerus present the most unusual characters.
In the first named the last whorl of the shell is straightened turning toward the margin and upward Pilsbry so that the visceral mass is carried upside down.
Pilsbry has suggested that judging by the growth lines the shell is carried at first with the equatorial plane nearly vertical and that as the last whorl is being added the animal falls to the right thus undergoing a twisting process which brings the spire of the shell into a reversed position.
Unfortunately no young living individuals were secured by the Stanford Expedition but in the shell PI.
XXXI figs.
2 4 of one immature specimen the free borders are highly angular and if held in an upright position as Pilsbry suggests would offer the least possible resistance in moving about through the grassy regions where these snails abound.
The specimens of Anostoma on which this paper is based were found in the low hilly country in the neighborhood of Baixa Verde a small settlement between 40 and 50 kilometers to the northwest of Natal.
A fire had swept the region in comparatively recent times and fragments of shells were everywhere abundant in the scrubby underbrush of the rocky hills.
Extended search brought to light a single living individual in a profound state of sestivation Avhich a prolonged stay in a moist chamber failed to terminate.
In addition five dead shells were discovered in a heap of stones and were measured and described in the field.
According to my notes made at the time they vary in greatest diameter from 33 to 37 mm.
 in lesser diameter from 24.5 to 28.5 mm.
 and in altitude from 16 to 17.5 mm.
Also in regard to the number and position of the apertural teeth or lamella
there is considerable variation.
In two specimens there are seven two of them being parietal  in another there are likewise two parietal folds but the columellar lamella is absent in the remaining two there are three parietal folds the middle one curving behind the 1 Manual of Conchology Vol.
XIV.
angle lamella as in A. ododentatum  while of the lip teeth the columellar fold is lacking entirely in one specimen and is almost completely obsolete in the other.
Where the color persisted the peristome was pinkishbrown or flesh tinted and characteristic of the species.
The immature shell measures 21 by 18 mm.
in width with an altitude of 10.5 mm.
 the axis is hollow and the mouth possesses no lamellae.
After the living specimen had been decalcified and sketched PI.
XXXI fig.
3 it was stained and sectioned all the study of the various systems being made from reconstructions.
The head region was highly contracted and was not examined to any considerable extent.
The unusual length of the mantle cavity extending from the pericardium to the external pore is reflected in the great length of the mantle arteries and veins as well as that of the ureter and portions of the reproductive system.
Otherwise there are no especially noteworthy features beyond what are indicated in the figures.
The kidney placed between the pericardial and body walls on the anterior face of the last fold presents the usual saclike appearance.
Evidently the renopericardial opening is minute if it exists at all for a careful study of sections failed to disclose its whereabouts.
The ureter likewise is difficult to trace throughout a portion of its course.
Its external opening is immediately behind that of the alimentary canal and from this point is readily followed to the region of the pericardium where it decreases in caliber and passes into a network of blood vessels.
Furthermore the present specimen was slightly damaged in the region of the columellar muscle thus adding to the difficulty of tracing the connections.
It appears that the kidney is in contact along its inner face with a slender sack or tube with which the ureter communicates.
The digestive system PI.
XXXI fig.
6 requires no especial description.
A highly intelligent native lad of Baixa Verde is responsible for the statement that Anostoma lives solely on vegetable matter at all events several specimens that he kept for several months thrived on garden vegetables and moss.
He had made no observations on the position of the body in young individuals.
The description of the reproductive system of A. ringens as described by Fischer 2 applies in all essential details to A. depressum with the exception of a penis retractor muscle attached to the vas deferens.
In A. depressum the external reproductive pore located Joiir.
de Conchyl 1869 p. 261. on the right side of the head leads into a small atrium with which the penis hermaphroditic duct and seminal receptacle attach.
The first named is a heavy muscular organ accompanied by the usual slender vas deferens their union being effected at some distance from the distal end of the penis which thus forms a flagellum PI.
XXXI fig.
7 f.
As the flagellum thus holds identically the same position as the socalled penis retractor in A. ringeris I am strongl inclined to the opinion that we are actually dealing with flagella in both instances.
In the present specimen the penis and flagellum are both sharply defined and appear to be without muscular attachments though bound to the body wall by delicate connective tissue strands.
In the neighborhood of the outer opening however the penis sheath affords attachment for three or four slender muscle bands that I am inclined to regard as penis retractors.
The hermaphroditic duct a highly glandular duct of comparatively even diameter traverses the greater portion of the first coil of the body to enter the accessory glands.
All of these structures are in a quiescent condition and in size and configuration probably fall far short of their fully developed state in the sexually mature condition.
The same is likewise true of the gonad.
While the duct leading to it from the accessory glands is clearly apparent throughout the first part of its course it gradually approaches the vanishing point and cannot with certainty be traced to a gonad which is accordingly drawn in its hypothetical position.
Two living specimens of Tomigerus clausus were found beneath stones in the vicinity of CearaMirim a town about midway between Baixa Verde and Natal.
Both were in a state of aestivation and failed to revive though kept in a moist chamber for several days.
It is evident from several features of the shell and internal organization that the shell in this genus is carried with its principal axis transverse to the longitudinal axis of the foot that is the spire is directed to the right.
The flattened surface of the outer whorl thus rests upon the dorsal surface of the foot or upon the substratum when the animal is in a state of aestivation a position which they had assumed in both instances.
As each individual was in a highly contracted state with foot and head drawn far within the shell external features are difficult to determine.
It appears certain however that the mantle with more highly thickened margins and more glandular epithelium than in Anosto7na extends throughout the first whorl of the shell to the region adjacent to the aperture.
It thus terminates at the point where the ureter PI.
XXXI fig.
5 u bends abruptly upon itself.
The external openings of the ureter and intestine occupy the usual positions on the right side and from this point pursue a course parallel to the external surface of the body in close contact with the mantle cavity.
As noted previously the ureter bends sharply upon itself at the termination of the mantle cavity and dorsally placed with reference to this chamber proceeds anteriorly to unite with the forward extremity of the kidney.
This lastnamed body is a compact saclike body consisting as usual of highly folded glandular epithelium confined in the posterior half of the organ to the outer face.
As may be seen in the diagram PI.
XXXI fig.
5 the pericardium p is in contact with this glandular section throughout its entire length but is scarcely more than half as extensive.
The renopericardial opening was not observed.
It may be added that the kidney is placed dorsally with reference to the pericardium.
The reproductive system considering that the gonad is in a highly quiescent state is comparatively large and more compact than in Anostoma.
The gonad consists of several slender diverticula probably three times as many as are indicated in PI.
XXXI fig.
1 located in the apical whorls of the visceral mass.
These contain primitive sex cells undifferentiated into sperms and ova.
The hermaphroditic duct extends ventrally close to the columella and shortly before entering the accessory glands attaches to a slender pearshaped organ possibly a seminal vesicle consisting of upwards of ten small diverticula imbedded in a muscular sheath.
These are empty and give no sign of glandular activity.
The accessory glands are volummous though inactive organs whose general extent is indicated in PL XXXI fig.
1 ag though several lobes give them a much greater dorsoventral thickness than can be shown in the figure.
The duct leading from the accessory glands becomes considerably widened near its proximal extremity and possibly functions as a shell gland.
As in Anostoma the duct from the seminal receptacle springs from this point and as a slender canal proceeds to the spacious sack situated in close proximity to the accessory glands.
The vas deferens likewise unites with the penis some distance from its distal extremity thus forming a flagellum PL XXXI fig.
1.
No penis retractor has been discovered in this region.
On the other hand several strands attaching to the penis sheath in the neighborhood of the outer opening may operate as retractors.
The digestive system is sufficiently illustrated PL XXXI fig.
5 to require no further explanation beyond the statement that three distinct bile ducts open into the stomach.
Explanation of Plate XXXI.
Fig.
1 .Reproductive system of Tomigerus clausus dorsal view ag accessory glands f flagellum g gonad r seminal receptacle v seminal vesicle.
Fig.
2.
 Shell of young Anostoma depressum.
Fig.
3.
 Heart and kidney k of A. depressum viewed from underside of spire.
Fig.
4.
 Shell of young A. depressum.
Fig.
5.
 Dorsal view of digestive tract kidney k and pericardium p of Tomigerus clausus.
Contracted specimen.
Fig.
6.
 Digestive tract of A .
depressum viewed from apex of spire.
Fig.
7.
 Reproductive system of A. depressum viewed from apex of shell ag.
accessory glands f flagellum g gonad r seminal receptacle.
The following Reports for 1913 were ordered to be printed REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The past year of the Academy has been tranquil and prosperous.
While nothing of unusual interest has transpired the results of routine work in the increase of the Museum and Library and the issue of the publications are matters of congratulation.
The difficulty of securing desirable attendance at the meetings noticed in my last report continues the committee appointed to look after the interests involved having been active only during the latter part of the year.
Better results may be secured for the coming sessions.
Ten meetings were addressed by F. D. Weidman Edw.
H. Thompson Johii M. Macfarlane Philip P. Calvert H. Newell Wardle William E. Hughes Henry Skinner T. Chalkley Palmer Charles S. Boyer Hugo Bilgram and W. H. van Sickle.
Fortyfour papers have been presented for publication as follows  Henry W. Fowler 7 Joseph C. Thompson 4 A. P. Brown and H. A. Pilsbry 2 Amos P. Brown 2 James A. G. Rehn 2 J.
A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard 2 Nathan Banks 2 Morgan Hebard 1 Will F. Thompson 1 R. A. Speath 1 Francis W. Pennell 1 T. D. A. Cockerell 1 E. G. Vanatta 1 S. Stillman Berry 1 Frederick D. Widman 1 Edgar T. Wherry 1 Witmer Stone 1 Clarence B. Moore 1 Dr. A. Hrdlicka 1 Herbert Campion 1 Philip P. Calvert 1  Henry A. Pilsbry 1  R. W. Shufeldt 1  Thomas Barbour 1 William H. Dall 1 Frederick Baker 1 Annette Frances Braun 1 N. E. Mclndoo 1 Harold Heath 1 and Henry Fox 1.
Thirtythree of these have been printed two have been returned to the authors and nine remain in the editor's hands awaiting publication.
The papers by Mr. Clarence B. Moore and Dr. Hrdlicka constitute the first part of the sixteenth volume of the Journal.
It forms as usual a beautiful contribution to anthropological science.
The expense of publication has been borne by Mr. Moore.
The contribution from Miss Annette F. Braun begins the second part of the sixteenth volume of the Journal.
It will be illustrated by text figures and by two fine plates printed in color and furnished by the author.
The parts of the Proceedings published have amounted to 670 pages and 25 plates.
Mr. Moore's contribution to the Journal embraces 102 pages and two plates beautifully printed in color besides a number of fine halftone illustrations.
Of the Transactions OF the American Entomological Society Entomological Section of the Academy 248 pages and 26 plates have been published and of the Entomological News 432 pages and 14 plates have appeared.
Two numbers of the Manual of Conchology consisting of 112 pages and 27 plates make the total output for the year 1564 pages and 94 plates.
A careful revision of the exchange list has been made by Mr. Fox Letters have been sent to a number of derelict societies asking for a supply of deficiencies and announcing a suspension of correspondence until their indebtedness be cancelled.
This action has been productive of some good results.
Eight members and one correspondent have been elected.
The deaths of sixteen members and six correspondents have been announced.
Resignations of membership have been accepted from Joshua L. Bailey William S. Newcomet and S. Harbert Hamilton.
The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections the Custodian of the Isaac Lea Collections and the Solicitor of the Academy in position last year were reappointed by the Council.
The interest so loyally manifested during his life by the Rev.
Leander T. Chamberlain in the condition and growth of the collection of Eocene fossils associated with the memory of his fatherinlaw Isaac Lea was further shown by a bequest of 5000 for the care and increase of the collection.
Dr. Chamberlain died May 16 1913.
A bequest of .10000 has been received from Miss Anna Blanchard who died August 2 1913.
The Academy formally thanked Dr. Thomas Biddle for the valuable additions he has made to the mammalian collections especially for the skeletons and mounted specimens of anthropoids.
I regret to report that a bill which had passed the Senate and House of Representatives appropriating 90000 to tKe Academy failed to receive the signature of the Governor and was therefore inoperative.
Samuel G. Gordon has been appointed a Jessup Fund student.
Miss Harriet Newell Wardle was reappointed on the female branch of the endowment.
In the Monday evening course of lectures extending from January 6 to May 5 three lectures on problems of bird life were delivered by Dr. Witmer Stone  one on milkborn epidemics of communicable diseases by Dr. B. F. Royer one on a sanitary survey of the Allegheny water shed by Mr. T. Herbert Snow three on anthropology and ethnology by Dr. Spencer Trotter three on entomology' by Dr. Henry Skinner three on studies in local plant life by Mr. Stewardson Brown and three on the natural history of the Hawaiian Islands by Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry.
The afternoon course for students of the Girls' High School began October 8 and was largely attended.
Two lectures each were delivered by the following Dr. Henry Skinner on insects Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry on crustaceans and mollusks Dr. J. Percy Moore on reptiles and mammals Dr. Witmer Stone on birds and INIr.
Stewardson Brown on plants.
There has been a gratifying increase in attendance on all the courses.
Edward J. Nolan Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
The toll of death from among correspondents of the Academy for the year just closed was unusually heavy.
The reported deceased are Professor Robert Collett Lord Avebury Dr. Philip Lutley Sclater Professor Igino Cocchi Dr. Joseph K. Corson Professor Arnim Baltzer and Alfred Russel Wallace.
Colonel Wm.
C. Gorgas U. S. A. was elected a correspondent.
Invitations were received to send delegates or to participate otherwise in the followingnamed projects of scientific interest The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the foundation of the Dumfriesiiire and Galloway Natural History and Antiquarian Society the movement for the establishment of a memorial to Giovanni Schiaparelli  the Twelfth International Geological Congress at which the Academy was represented by Professor Edgar T. Wherry Professor Florence Bascom and Dr. R. A. F. Penrose the bicentenary jubilee of the Imperial Botanical Gardens of St. Petersburg the Ninth International Congress of Zoology to which the Prince of Monaco Professor Ulric Dahlgren and Dr. Edward J. Nolan were appointed delegates the fiftj'year birthday celebration of the Natural Science Society of Braunschweig the one hundred and twentyfifth anniversary of the granting of the first charter to the University of Pittsburgh  the fiftieth anniversary jubilee of the Entomological Society of Ontario which Dr. C. G. Hewitt attended as the Academy's delegate the Ninth International Congress on Hydrology Climatology and Geology the inauguration exercises of the new President of Ursinus College and the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Imperial Society of the Friends of Natural History Anthropology and Ethnography of Moscow.
Letters of congratulation or more formal addresses were forwarded to the executive officers of most of the events named special attention being given to those at which the Academy found it impossible to be represented.
Several communications from individuals or organizations thanking the Academy for courtesies extended were received.
Many letters requesting information were answered or suitably referred and the routine correspondence was conducted as usual as shown in the summary that follows Communications received Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications 455 Transmitting publications to the Academy... 54 Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 3 Invitations to learned gatherings celebrations etc 14 Notices of deaths of scientific men . .
5 Circulars concerning the administration of scientific and educational institutions etc 20 Photographs and biographies of correspondents  2 Letters from correspondents 10 Miscellaneous letters 135 Total received 698 Communications forwarded Acknowledging gifts to the Library 1094 Requesting the supply of deficiencies 112 Acknowledging gifts to the Museum 75 Acknowledging photographs and biographies 1 Letters of sympathy or congratulation addresses etc 16 Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates' credentials 9 Miscellaneous letters 157 Annual reports sent to correspondents 248 Total forwarded 1712 Respectfully submitted J. Percy Moore Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
I am happy to report a gratifying growth of the library during the past year the accessions amounting to a total of 9735 an increase 1913.
697 of nearly 1000 more than the additions of the preceding year.
The sources of accession were as follows Exchanges I. V. Williamson Fund General Appropriation United States Department of Agriculture Authors James Aitken Meigs Fund Editors United States Bureau of Education Dr. W. D. Bayley Geological Survey of Kentucky.. Thomas B. Wilson Fund Government of India Imperial Department of Agriculture British West Indies.. New York Agricultural Experiment Station United States Department of the Interior Imperial Geological Survey of Japan University of Nebraska Agricultural Experiment Station... Government of Costa Rica Dr. W. U.Abbott PanAmerican Union Ministerio de la Agiicultura Argentine Republic Botanical Section of the Academy Trustees of the British Museum.. Tennessee State Board of Entomology Dr. C. W. Richmond Estacion Seismologica de Cartuj a Dr. E. J. Nolan United States War Department.. United States Department of Commerce and Labor WilUam J.
Fox American Iron and Steel Institute Dr. H. A. Pilsbry Colorado Agricultural College Wyoming State Geologist Dr. Henry Skinner Albert I Prince de Monaco University of Wyoming Pennsylvania State Library Comrnission of Conservation of Canada Massachusetts Agricultmal Experiment Station PubUcation Committee of the Academy Maryland Geological Survey 46 4288 1954 1330 1188 192 131 63 52 50 42 40 28 25 Ceylon Marine Biological Laboratory State Entomologist of lUinois... New Mexico College of Agri.
culture Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture Pennsylvania Chestnut Tree Blight Commission Wisconsin Geological and Natural History Survey Victoria Department of Mines.. Rockefeller Sanitary Institute.... Wyoming State Board of Immigration Illinois State Geological Survey Geological Survey of Alabama.. Illinois Bureau of Labor Statistics Geological Survey of New Jersey Ciierpo de Ingenieros de Minas del Peru Commission de la Belgica Washington Geological Survey.. Estate of Caleb J. Milne C. H. Fernald Florida State Geological Survey Iowa Geological Survey University of Pittsburgh Board of Park Commissioners San Francisco Missouri Bureau of Geology and Mines John Laurence Government of Formosa Mrs. W. A. Lemly American Federation of Hygiene Danish Government Mrs. John Marcou French Government National Electric Lamp Association Herbert A. Gill University College London New Orleans Progressive Union Geological Survey of Georgia Geological Survey of Ohio Minnesota Historical Society Miss A. L. Fries Delaware Valley Ornithological Club . Ventura County Horticultural Society Illinois State Museum Louisiana State Museum F. E. Fischer Leipzig United States Brewers' Association Of these 7957 were pamphlets and parts of periodicals 969 volumes and 809 maps.
They were distributed to the several departments of the library as follows  Journals 6193 Mineralogy 33 Agriculture 1297 Encyclopedias 27 Geography 700 Mammalogy 17 Geology 480 Physical Science 11 Botany 240 Bibliography .... 10 Entomology 154 Herpetology 9 General Natural History 134 Ichthyology 4 Voyages and Travels 118 Medicine 3 Anatomy and Physiology 94 Mathematics 2 Anthropology 65 Philology 2 Helminthology 39 Chemistry 1 Ornithology 37 Miscellaneous 47 Conchology 36 Among the serials not before in the collection and secured by subscription purchase or exchange may be named American Ethnological Society Publications.
Apuntes de Historia Natural.
Buenos Aires.
Archives Botaniques du Nord de la France.
Lille.
Comptes Rendus Conferences Internationale de Genetique.
Eugenics Record Office Bulletin and Memoirs.
Fortschritte der Mineralogie etc.
Jena.
Istituto Geologico della R. Universita di Padova Memorie.
Mededeelingen Rijksopsporing van Delfstoffen.
s'Gravenhage Naturwissenschaften Die.
Berlin.
Norsk Geologisk Tidsskrift.
Palaeobotanische Zeitschrift.
Berlin.
Palaeontologische Zeitschrift.
Berlin.
Physiological Researches.
Baltimore.
Studies from Museum of Zoology University College Dundee.
Termeszet.
Budapest.
Zeitschrift f. Pflanzenzuchtung.
Berlin.
Journal of the Polynesian Society 4 vols.
Memoires d'Histoire Naturelle Societe Eduenne.
Autun.
Mitteilungen der Grossh.
Badischen Geologischen Landesanstalt.
Heidelbeig. Zeitschrift f. Geognosie.
Weimar.
Academia Romana Bulletin de la Section Scientifique.
Academie Malgache Bulletin.
Tananarive.
American Museum of Natural History Monographs.
New York.
Bulletin of the University of Colorado.
Boulder.
Dansk Geologisk Forening Meddelelser.
Copenhagen.
Department of Agriculture.
Ceylon.
Journal of the College of Agriculture Tohoku Imperial University.
Minnesota School of Mines Experiment Station.
Bulletin.
Mittheilungen der k. sachsischen forstliche Versuchsanstalt zu Tharandt.
Resources of Tennessee.
Societe Historique et Scientifique des DeuxSevres.
Niort.
Societe Ouralienne des Amis des Sciences Naturelles etc.
Ekaterinburg.
Tennessee State Geological Survey Bulletin.
Verein f. Naturwissenschaften an der Unterweser.
Separate Schriften.
Geestemunde.
Washington University Studies.
St. Louis.
As of special importance may be mentioned Freyer.
Beitraege z. Geschichte europ.
Schmetterlinge.
3 vols.
Freyer.
Neuere Beitraege z. Schmetterlingskunde.
7 vols.
Millais.
British Diving Ducks.
Coal Resources of the World 2 vols. text and folio Atlas.
A specially illustrated copy of the Centenary volume of the Journal bound in two volumes has been presented by the Recording Secretary.
They contain samples of all the documents and cards used in connection with the centenary celebration photographs of and autograph letters from everyone taking part in the meetings or contributing communications to the volume a photograph of the dining hall with seated guests lists of subscribers to the general expense fund and to the dinner fund proof and plates of an omitted paper statistics of distribution text of the secretarj's unpublished Reminiscences and a copy of the printers' bill.
These volumes cannot fail to be of increasing interest as the years go on.
They have been presented on condition that they be kept under lock and key and inspected only in the presence of an officer of the Academy or an attache of the library.
Five hundred and eight volumes have been bound.
The stack has been thoroughly cleaned and the windows so protected as to minimize the access of dust.
We are indebted to Miss A. L. Fries for a collection of one hundred and thirtyone letters addressed by American and foreign naturalists to the Rev.
David Lewis De Schweinitz with his certificates of membership in the Academy and the Linnean Society of Paris.
The letters mostly relate to the work of Dr. De Schweinitz on the fungi.
In compliance with the law 199 duplicate pamphlets and 58 maps have been returned to the U. S. Department of Agriculture.
A proposition to alter the bylaws so as to permit of the loaning of books which had been long under consideration by the Council was reported on negatively.
It gives me pleasure to again acknowledge my indebtedness to my assistants William J.
Fox and Furman Shepherd Wilde for the conscientious and intelligent discharge of their duties.
Edward J. Nolan Libranan.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
During the past year the work of the museum staff has been mainly devoted to completing and improving the arrangement of the study collections which as stated in last year's report had nearly all been moved into new or renovated quarters upon the completion of the building operations in 1912.
A large amount of work along these lines was necessary and the appended reports of the special departments will show in detail the results that have been attained.
In the departments of Entomology Ornithology and Botany which underwent the greatest changes immense improvements have been made in the arrangement of the collections rendering them much more accessible and providing for the accommodation of additional accessions.
Furthermore these arrangements and the acquirement of additional storage cases will permit of the withdrawing of duplicate material now on exhibition especially in the departments of Conchology and Ornithology and facilitate the display of the remainder to much better advantage.
In this connection the preparation of descriptive labels is contemplated while groups illustrative of the life history of the species will be substituted for single mounts.
Comparatively little change has been possible in the arrangement of exhibits this year owing to the crowded condition of many of the cases and the lack of new cases for the north wing.
The former condition will be remedied during the coming year as already explained while it is hoped that enough new cases may be obtained to permit of the reopening of the north wing.
The greater part of the collection of vertebrate fossils has been thoroughly cleansed removed from the old table cases and arranged systematically in trays which have been temporarily placed under the mahogany cases containing the exhibition series of fossil mollusca.
Here they are readily accessible for study until permanent cases can be provided.
The removal of the Wm.
S. Vaux collection of minerals to the old library hall has been completed and Mr. F. J. Keeley has rearranged the specimens while under his direction Mr. S. G. Gordon a student on the Jessup Fund has continued the cataloguing of the collection which was begun some years ago.
The skeleton of the large Sperm Whale secured in 1911 has been placed temporarily in the centre of this hall where it has attracted much attention.
This skeleton together with one of the Mesoplodon makes the Academy's series of the larger Cetaceans almost complete as far as genera are concerned.
Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued his investigations of the Indian mounds of the southern United States and has added a number of valuable specimens to his collection.
The general archaeological collection has benefited as heretofore from the attention of Miss H. N. Warden.
Mr. Henry W. Fowler has as usual cared for the ichthjological collection and has also incorporated all of the additions to the collection of reptiles and amphibians and examined and rearranged the entire series of alcoholic crustaceans.
Dr. J. P. Moore has cared for the collections of worms as in previous years.
Work in other departments is described in the appended special reports.
In addition to the work of the museum staff the Curators are indebted to Mr F. J. Keeley for the care of the Wm.
S. Vaux collection of minerals  to Mr. Morgan Hebard for furnishing an assistant in the entomological department to mount specimens of Orthoptera  to Dr. Amos P. Brown for the identification of many specimens of invertebrate fossils and to Messrs. S. S. VanPelt and Bayard Long for the care of the local herbarium.
Several notable expeditions have been undertaken liy members of the museum staff.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry spent the first three months of the year in the Hawaiian Islands making studies and collections for a monograph of Hawaiian tree snails.
Details of his work will be found in the special report appended hereto.
Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn spent the month of July with Mr. Morgan Hebard investigating the Orthoptera of the Southern States from Virginia to Georgia.
They made a valuable joint collection.
Mr. Stewardson Brown again visited Bermuda in company with Dr. N. L. Britton in September and continued the investigation of the flora of the island.
Many short trips were also undertaken which have added largely to the local collections of fishes reptiles insects moUusks plants etc.
Fiftytwo storage cases and twohundred and two insect boxes have been purchased during the year.
Many valuable additions have been received bj' gift purchase and exchange as set forth in the accompanying list of accessions.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club Philadelphia Botanical Club and Pennsylvania Audubon Society have held their meetings regularly at the Academy during the year and the American Association of Museums convened here for their annual meeting in April.
The attendance in the museum is constantly increasing especially school classes accompanied by teachers.
Outoftown schools have visited the museum in a body while Philadelphia schools notably the High School for Girls have sent the scholars in sections for the study of special departments in regular sequence.
The classes from the School of Industrial Art have also attended regularly for the purpose of sketching the osteological and other exhibits.
Extensive use has been made of the study collections in all departments by visiting specialists while specimens have been loaned to Robert Ridgway W. W. Cooke W. G. Mazyck M. L. Fernald H. W. Henshaw J. H. Ashworth R. H. Howe O. P. Hay R. Southern E. W. Nelson E. S. Shumann F. M. Chapman M. J. Rathbun and H. C. Oberholser.
A series of mounted mammals of Pennsylvania was contributed to the exhibition of the State Forestry Association.
Samuel G. Dixon Executive Curator.
Report of the Department of Mollusca.
Accessions to the collection of mollusks have been received from 66 persons and institutions during the year.
Valuable material has been collected by several expeditions made by members or friends of the Academy.
Mr. J. H. Ferriss spent four months in Arizona exploring the Santa Catalina and White Mountains finding an abundant fauna of land mollusks at elevations up to 13000 feet.
As the localities had not been visited before by a collector of shells and the species are largely local he secured a large number of species newto science and valuable zoogeographic data.
The collections made have been generously shared with the Academy.
Doctor Amos P. Brown gave the Academy a collection of the mollusca of the island of Antigua B. W. I. taken by him during the summer.
It is probably nearly or quite complete for land forms and includes also a considerable number of marine shells.
The Special Curator spent a few days over three months in visiting the Hawaiian Islands chiefly for the purpose of studying land snails of the family Achatinellidm both in the field and in Hawaiian collections.
Over 1000 lots of shells in trays and bottles have been labelled and catalogued and about an equal number remain to be worked over.
Special attention was given to the deposits of fossil land shells and about 20000 specimens of fossils were collected.
So far as studied these collections show that the fossil faunas of the several islands are much more closel related to one another than are the living faunas.
The theory that the islands are portions of a former large landarea now dismembered by subsidence is therefore emphatically supported by the new data obtained.
Collections were made on Oahu Molokai Hawaii and the uninhabited island Kahoolawe.
The success of the expedition was largely due to the generous hospitality of the Bishop Pauahi Museum Doctor C. Montague Cooke Mr. George Cooke Mr. Irwin Spalding Mr. D. Thaanum and others who in many ways assisted the investigation.
The time of the Special Curator since his return has been largely occupied with work on material brought back and with the current work of the department.
Papers have been published on Lower Californian Helices and various other topics and Mr. Vanatta published upon new marine mollusks.
With the assistance of Dr. A. P. Brown who devoted considerable time to the work progress has been made in the arrangement of the invertebrate fossils.
Dr. Brown has presented to the Academy a collection of Oligocene fossils which he made in Antigua and described in the Proceedings of the Academy.
Miss Winchester artist of the department has continued her work throughout the year.
Mr. Vanatta was assigned to work in the Entomological Department on April 1st but since December 1st has returned to the Department of MoUusca.
The Curator has also had the assistance of Miss Ziegler who has spent five months in assorting minute shells from the Hawaiian Islands.
H. A. PiLSBRY Special Curator.
Report of Curator of William S. Vaux Collections.
During the past year the collection of minerals was removed to its new quarters in what was formerly the Library Hall and during the past few months with the assistance of Mr. S. G. Gordon rapid progress has been made on the cataloguing and numbering of the mineral specimens.
Twentytwo specimens have been added to the collection during the year in the selection of which the established precedent of securing quality rather than quantity has been adhered to.
The most important accessions include a suite of aerolites from Holbrook Ariz. tantalum Altai Mountains andorite Oruro enargite.
Morococha monticellite Magnet Cove natrochalcite Chuouicamata diamond in matrix S. Africa ehiastolite California gageite Franklin N. J. delafossite and mottramite Bisbee Ariz. Respectfully submitted F. J. Keeley Curator William S. Vaux Collection.
REPORTS OF SECTIONS.
Biological and Microscopical Section.
The Section held nine regular meetings during the year with the usual attendance.
Various communications were made by Messrs. Morris Palmer Keeley Stewart Van Sickel Schuino Bilgram and Boyer.
At the annual meeting with the Academy the program included addresses by Mr. T. C. Palmer on the collecting and preparing of Diatoms by Mr. Charles S. Boyer on Philadelphia Diatoms by Mr W. H. Van Sickel on the methods of labelling shdes and by Mr. Hugo Bilgram on rock inclusions.
The following officers were elected for the ensuing year Director Dr. J. Cheston Morris.
ViceDirector T. Chalkley Palmer.
Recorder ..
Charles S. Boyer.
Corresponding Secretary Silas L. Schumo.
Treasurer Dr. Thomas S. Stewart.
Curator . F. J. Keeley.
Charles S. Boyer Recorder.
Report of the Entomological Section.
Two hundred and fourteen glasscovered boxes have been purchased to accommodate the growth of the collections.
Nine thousand one hundred and eightyseven specimens have been added by gift purchase and exchange and most of them have been mounted and incorporated.
Thirtyfour drawers of Lepidoptera have been transferred to make room for other insects and one cabinet was emptied and sold.
The families Geometridse and Sphingidse the genera Ornithoptera and Papilio and the lifehistories have been rearranged.
In the Coleoptera the exotic species from CicindeUdse to Scarabeidse have been transferred to the Ridings cabinets.
All the named exotic species that were not incorporated have been added to the exotic collection.
The Zimmerman collection the Poey Cuban collection and the Salle collection of Mexican species have all been labelled.
In the North American series the rearrangement of the Carabidse and the Gyrinidse have been completed and the Hydrophilidie in part.
The Horn types in Carabidse and Elateridse have been labelled also the Curculionidse and some of the smaller families.
The following families have also been rearranged  Rhinomaceridae Rhynchitidse Attelabidae Brysopidse Otiorhynchidse Curculionid8 Brenthidse Calandridae Scolytidae Anthribidse Haliplidse and Dytiscidse.
More than a hundred species undetermined in the Horn collection have been named by specialists and incorporated.
In the order Hymenoptera the family Chalcididae has been rearranged.
In the Diptera the Sapromyzidae and Agromyzidce have been determined and rearranged and the Stratiomyidae Culicidae and SyriphidsB have been put in better order.
The Odonata have all been transferred to glasstopped drawers with the exception of some specimens on which studies are being made.
The work on the order Orthoptera has been as follows The North American and exotic collections of Dermaptera and Blattidee have been rearranged in the large glasstop boxes in which the whole collection of these orders will eventually be displayed.
Some thousands of specimens from numerous exotic localities have been relaxed and mounted and in part permanently labelled preparatory to study.
The series of the genera Dichopetala Insara and Arethcea have been critically studied by Messrs. Rehn and Hebard the latter spending a number of months monographically studying the North and Central American crickets of the genus Nemobius.
To complete these studies all the types in America and certain of those in European collections were examined by one or other of the authors.
A faunistic paper on the Orthoptera of the Florida Keys and extreme Florida was prepared by the same workers based wholly on material collected by the HebardAcademy Expedition of 1912.
Mr. Relm has studied two extensive collections of Argentine Orthoptera the first set of each becoming the property of the Academy while work by him on a large series of Brazilian material is now under way.
During the summer of 1912 Messrs. Rehn and Hebard spent four weeks in the field in the Piedmont regions of the Southeastern States collecting Orthoptera while in October and November Mr. Hebard made collections in Jamaica and Panama which will when studied add greatly to the value of the series of Orthoptera.
Mr. Hebard during the last year deposited the last section of his collection in the Academy.
Numerous specimens have been received from him as distributions of the Bruner Collection material these often of great value on account of their determination by their former owner.
Mr. Hebard has continued to employ help in preparing the series of Dermaptera and Orthoptera secured by field work in which he is interested thus affording material assistance to the department.
The Academy has acquired by purchase a valuable series of Orthoptera from Trinidad British Guiana Peru Ecuador and Colombia.
The Orthoptera collections of German Central African Expedition of 19101911 have been received for study as well as a number of other series from different sources.
There is now assembled in one room in the Academy the largest series of Orthoptera and Dermaptera in America and one of the largest in the world the number of specimens exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand almost entirely an accumulation of the last fifteen years.
The Conservator spent several weeks during the summer collecting in the White Mountains of New Hampshire and succeeded in securing a number of rare species for the collection.
The usual meetings of the Section have been held with an average attendance of eight persons.
Four Associates have been elected.
At the annual meeting held December 8 the following persons were elected to serve as officers for the ensuing year.
Director Philip Laurent.
ViceDirector Henry W. Wenzel.
Treasurer Ezra T. Cresson.
Conservator Henry Skinner.
Secretary James A. G. Rehn.
Recorder Henry Skinner.
Publication Committee E.T.
Cresson and E.T.
Cresson Jr. Henry Skinner Recorder.
Report of the Botanical Section.
During the year following the policy of replacement of the old wooden cases by metal ones further changes have been made in the arrangement of the herbarium.
The Academy has furnished the herbarium during the year twenty additional tins part of which have been installed in the place of the wooden cases formerly occupying the east wall of the north room the balance having been used to relieve the crowding in the central room.
The wooden cases thus removed have been placed on the east wall of the local room relieving temporarily the overcrowding of this rapidly growing section.
The cases taken from the local room have been reerected in the central gallery room and are being used at present for storage.
More than 10000 specimens have been added to the general herbarium during the year the largest accessions being the herbarium of Dr. C. D. Fretz of Sellersville Pa. presented to the Academy.
It numbers approximately 5000 sheets about onethird of which have been assigned to the local herbarium.
A large exchange of several thousand plants has been secured from the Trenton Museum and smaller collections from the New York Botanical Garden Gray Herbarium and University of Pennsylvania with donations from Charles S. WilUam5on and others.
A majority of these plants have been mounted and installed in the collections.
During September the Conservator spent three weeks in Bermuda continuing his studies there in company with Dr. and Mrs. N. L. Britton of the New York Botanical Garden.
On this occasion particular attention was paid to the plants in several of the old gardens in the vicinity of Hamilton and St. George's much assistance being rendered by Mr. E. J. Wortley of the Agricultural Gardens.
Many specimens of interesting tropical plants were collected.
They wall add greatly to the value of our study material.
During the year the Philadelphia Botanical Club has held its meetings regularly in the herbarium rooms and its members as well as many visiting botanists have made much use of the collections.
Mr. S. S. Van Pelt has continued his valued services in the care of the local collection and the Section is indebted to Mr. Bayard Long for important assistance in the same field.
At the annual meeting held November 20 the following officers were elected.
Director Benjamin H. Smith.
ViceDirector Joseph Crawford.
Recorder Charles S. Williamson.
Treasurer and Conservator Stewardson Brown.
Respectfully submitted Stewardson Brown Conservator.
MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Section has held four meetings this year with an average attendance of twelve.
Communications were made by Dr. E. T. Wherry on crystal analysis by Dr. Thomas C. Brown on the geology of the Catskill Aqueduct by Dr. T. C. Brown on a canoe trip in Northern Quebec and by Dr. Florence Bascom on an excursion of the International Geological Congress north of Lake Ontario.
There were alsO' shorter communications and various discussions.
In addition the Section had one meeting in conjunction with the Academy and Dr. E. T. Wherry then reported on the International Geological Congress held at Toronto last August.
The Section had six field excursions with an average attendance of .17.
Visits were made to 1 Crystalline rocks near Glen Mills and Lenni on Chester Creek and at Black Horse Delaware County 2 Crystalline rocks and their minerals near the Falls of French Creek Chester County 3 Crystalline rocks near Holmesburg and Rolandsville Philadelphia 4 New Red Perkasie shales and Pottstown shales and trap near Schwenksville Montgomery County 5 Graphite deposits near Byers Chester County 6 Crystalline rocks and Cambrian near Pennypack Creek Montgomery County.
One new member and tAvo associate members were elected.
The following officers of the Section have been elected for the year 1914 Director Benjamin Smith Lyman.
ViceDirector Frank J. Keeley.
Recorder and Secretary Silas L. Schumo.
Treasurer William B. Davis.
Conservator George Vaux Jr. Respectfully submitted by order of the Section.
Benjamin Smith Lyman Director 1913.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
709 Report of the Ornithological Section.
More progress has been made in the arrangement of the study series of birds during the year just closed than has been possible for many years past.
Mr. D. E. Culver who has occupied a Jessup studentship during the year has devoted nearly all of his time to the relaxing and renovation of the old unmounted specimens.
Many hundreds of these birds have thus been converted into excellent skin specimens while the cases have been thoroughlj cleansed as the work continued.
All of the lower groups of birds comprising those of large size liave been worked over in this way as well as the whole series of Picariae most of the Clamatores and one or two families of the Oscines so that the work will be easily completed early in the coming year.
The Conservator took up each family of the water birds as the relaxing was completed and arranged them systematically reidentifying many specimens and checking them up in Sharpe's Hand List.
He also interpolated in the collection some 5000 specimens that have been acquired during past years but not systematically arranged for lack of cases a need that was met this year by the addition of ten doublesized metal storage cases.
Ironpipe racks were also erected for holding the cases in place of the temporary wooden racks previously in use while the fronts of all the cases have been painted cream color which gives them a much neater appearance and adds materially to the light in the alcoves.
The floor of the room has also been painted with cemitite which has hardened the concrete and stopped the constant wearing away of the surface in the form of fine dust.
The removal of certain old wooden cases will permit the arrangement of the local collection to much better advantage.
A number of additions have been made during the year to the local .exhibition collection and others are in the course of preparation.
No rearrangement or further reduction of the general exhibition collection has been possible but with the acquisition of additional storage cases it is hoped in the coming year to unmount a number of duplicates and arrange the remaining specimens to much better advantage.
There have been a number of very important accessions to the study collection during the year notable among which were two hundred and thirtyseven West African birds obtained from George L. Bates and four hundred and fifty specimens from Santa Marta Colombia.
These added many species not heretofore represented.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and Pennsylvania Audubon Society have held their meetings regularly at the Academy and have done much to stimulate interest in the department while numerous ornithologists from other institutions have made use of the collections.
At the annual meeting of the Section held December 4 1913 the following officers were elected for the ensuing year Director Spencer Trotter M.D.
ViceDirector George Spencer Morris.
Recorder Stewardson Brown.
Secretary William A. Shryock.
Treasurer and Conservator Witmer Stone.
WiTMER Stone Conservator.
The annual election of Officers Councillors and Members of the Committee on Accounts was held December 16 with the following result President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D.
VicePresidents Edwin G. Conklin Ph.D. Sc.D.
John Cadwalader A.M. Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore Ph.D. Treasurer George Vaux Jr.
Librarian Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Curators Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D. Witmer Stone A.M. Sc.D. Henry Tucker M.D.
Councillors to serve three YEARS.Edwin S. Dixon Henry Skinner M.D. Robert G. LeConte M.D. George Spencer Morris.
Committee on Accounts Charles Morris Samuel N. Rhoads John G. Rothermel Thomas S. Stewart M.D. Walter Horstman.
COUNCIL FOR 1914.
ExOfficio.Simuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. Edwin G. Conklin Ph.D. John Cadwalader A.M. Edward J. Nolan M.D. J. Percy Moore Ph.D. George Vaux Jr. Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D. Witmer Stone A.M. Sc.D. Henry Tucker M.D.
To serve three years.
 Edwin S. Dixon Henry Skinner M.D. Sc.D..
Robert G. LeConte M.D. George Spencer Morris.
To serve two ymrs. Philip P. Calvert Ph.D. Thomas Biddle M.D. Frank J. Keeley Thomas G. Ashton M.D.
To serve one year.
 Charles B. Penrose M.D. LL.D. Ph.D. Charles Morris Spencer Trotter M.D. William E. Hughes M.D.
Councillor George Vaux Jr. Curator of Mollusca Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D.
Curator of William S. Vaux Collections ' Frank J. Keele3 Custodian of Isaac Lea Collection Joseph Willcox.
Assistant Librarian William J.
Fox.
Assistants to Curators Henry Skinner M.D. Sc.D. Stewardson Brown J. Percy Moore Ph.D. Edward G. Vanatta Henry W. Fowler James A. G. Rehn Ezra T. Cresson Jr. Assistant in Library Furman Sheppard Wilde.
Aid in Archeology Harriet Newell Wardle.
Aid in Herbarium Ada Allen.
Taxidermist David M. McCadden.
Janitors ..
Charles Clappier Daniel Heckler James Tague Jacob Aebley Adam E. Heckler.
STANDING COMMITTEES.
Finance.
 John Cadwalader A.M. Edwin S. Dixon Effingham B. Morris William D. Winsor and the Treasurer.
Publications.
 Henry Skinner M.D. Sc.D. Witmer Stone A.M. Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D. William S. Fox Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Library.
 George Vaux Jr. Henry Tucker M.D. Frank J. Keeley Thomas Biddle M.D. Witmer Stone Sc.D.
Instruction and Lectures.
 Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D. Charles Morris Henry Tucker M.D. George Spencer Morris and Stewardson Brown.
