NEW NEUROPTEROID INSECTS, NATIVE AND EXOTIC.
BY NATHAN BANKS.
The descriptions of the following new species have accumulated during the past year, based mostly on accessions to my collection, but the types of some (indicated in text) are in other collections.
I have included a table to the genera of Myrmeleonids known from the Indo-Australian region.
PERLIDiE.
Perlodes slossonae n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
17.
Marked much as in P. signata, the pale between ocelli runs back to pronotum; basal joint of antennae dark; pronotum dark, a broad pale median stripe; thorax black; abdomen brown; setae pale, tips of joints dark.
Legs pale brownish.
Wings faintly fumose, venation brownish.
Ocelli as in P. signata; pronotum a little broader than long.
Wings about as in P. signata, the apical cross-veins confined to subcosta, radius or its branches, the costal margin concave at humeral cross-vein.
Female ventral plate with a median excision, and a curved tooth each side.
Expanse 28 mm.
From Mt.
Washington (Mrs. Slosson).
Perlodes tibialis n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
19.
Yellowish, head with faint dark mark back of each posterior ocellus, and dark on clypeus; pronotum dark on sides, and each side of the narrow pale median line, the disk each side mostly pale; thorax dark on sides, pale in middle; legs pale, the femora dark at tips, the base of tibise black, stopping suddenly and beyond very pale, but dark near tip; abdomen dull black, setse pale.
Wings with brownish venation.
Posterior ocelli rather nearer to eyes than to each other; pronotum broader than long, much broader in front than behind.
Wings long, the apical part with cross-veins all over from costa to hind margin; costal area with eight or more cross-veins.
Expanse 37 mm.
From Olympia Mts., Wash. (Kincaid).
Perla georgiana n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
16.
Mostly pale yellowish throughout; bases of the hind femora infuscated; abdomen brown, discolored.
Ocellar triangle broader than long, posterior ocelli much nearer to each other than to the eyes, and the bosses are much nearer to posterior ocelli than to the eyes; the anterior bosses are elongate, oblique, and together form a V. Setae short, the joints for some distance out are broader than long.
Pronotum much broader in front than l)ehind, anterior corners sharp, posterior corners rounded, sides much rugose.
In fore wings there are four crossveins beyond the end of the subcosta; eight or nine costal cross-veins; radial sector with four branches; about seven median and five cubital cross-veins.
Expanse 32 mm.
From Clayton, Ga., 2,000 to 3,000 feet, June (Davis).
Perla xenocia n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, figs.
5, 12.
Head yellow, a large dark brown spot over the ocelli, pointed behind, truncate in front; antennae and palpi black, pronotum dull black, anterior lobe of mesonotum, and two spots on the metanotum black; abdomen pale yellow; setae black; legs black, femora (except tips) pale yellow; sternum yellow.
Wings dark brown, veins dark, except the yellow costa.
Posterior ocelli fully three diameters apart, a little further from the anterior ocellus, and not one diameter from the lateral bosses, latter about their length from the eyes.
Pronotum about one and one-fifth broader than long, barely narrowed behind, the corners nearly square, surface rugose.
Wings rather long, about 17 costals, not far apart, three or four cross-veins beyond end of subcosta, three branches of the radial sector, and a minute apical fork, about 7 or 8 median and cubital cross-veins, in hind wangs 8 or 9 cubital cross-veins, and the anal fork has three branches; in both wings the radial cross-vein is oblique.
Last joint of the maxillary palpi about twice as long as the preceding joint; the third nearly twice as long as the fourth; last ta,rsal joint twice as long as others together.
Expanse 42-45 mm.
From Singla, Darjiling, India, 1,500 feet, April (type in Indian Museum, cotype in author's collection).
Neoperla phantoma n. sp.
Body pale yellowish; margin of pronotum faintly brown, palpi dark brown or black, antennae slightly brown, basal part pale; black mark above on tip of femur, and on tip of last tarsal joint.
Wings faintly brownish, veins (except costal) brown, hind wings all pale, except brown radial cross-vein.
Ocelli not diameter apart, about twice as far from the eyes, ocelli very close to the bosses, latter scarcely their length from the eyes; third joint of maxillary palpi barely longer than the fourth; last tarsal joint hardly twice as long as others together, tibia I ahnost as broad as the femur.
Pronotuin only slightly rugose, broader in front than behind, much wider than long.
Fore wings with about 8 costals, and two or three beyond subcosta, two branches of radial sector, three median and three cubital cross-veins; in hind wings the anal fork has only one branch.
Expanse 20 mm.
From Mallali, British Guiana, March (Parish).
Neoperla plutonis n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
10.
Large black species.
Head yellow, a large, broad, blackish spot over ocelli extending to the anterior bosses, and reaching laterally toward eyes.
Antennae and palpi blackish; pronotum black on sides, pale in middle; thorax brown; abdomen pale on base, dark at tip, setae yellow brown; legs brown, basal tarsal joints pale, blackish at tips of femora and on bases and tips of tibiae.
Wings blackish, veins (except costal) dark.
Ocelli a little more than their diameter apart, not one-half their diameter from the bosses, which are larger, transverse, and not their length from the eyes; third joint of maxillary palpi much longer than the fourth; last tarsal joint fully three times as long as the others together, tibia I not one-half as wide as the femur.
Pronotum much broader than long, sides rounded, surface rugose.
Wings large, about 15 costal cross-veins, four beyond end of subcosta; three or four branches of radial sector; 10 median and 7 cubital cross-veins; in the hind wings the anal fork has four branches; anal plate of female broad, emarginate behind.
Expanse 56 mm.
From La Trinidad, Turricares, and Orosi, Costa Rica (Garlepp).
Neoperla nigriceps n. sp.
Head and pronotum nearly shining black, sides of pronotum very narrowly pale, thorax and abdomen brown, antennae and setae pale yellowish, basal joint of the antennae partly dark; wings brown, veins scarcely darker; legs pale, tibia and apex of femur H brown.
Last joint of palpus long and slender.
Head bent down, eyes very prominent, ocelli very small, about three diameters apart, twice as far from the eyes, lateral bosses no larger than ocelli, much lower down, and fully their length from the eyes and twice as far from ocelli.
Pronotum fully one and a half times as broad as long, much broader in front, corners rounded, surface rugose; last joint of tarsi three times as long as others together.
Wings slender, costals few and weak, radial sector forked once (nearer anastomosis than to tip), 7 median and 7 cubital cross-veins.
Expanse 15 mm.
From Belgaum, India, 2,000 feet, April.
Its small size and blacic head and pronotum distinguish it.
Neoperla bolivari n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
l. Yellowish; margin of pronotum brown; abdomen brown on base; a brown, spot each side on mesonotum; antennae pale brownish; last joint of tarsus, tip of tibia, and mark at tip of femur above black or dark brown.
Wings faintly brownish, veins pale, except radial cross-vein is black.
Ocelli about one and a-half times their diameter apart, only half as far from the bosses,, the latter about their length from the eyes; pronotum about one and a fourth times broader than long, hardly narrowed behind, anterior corners sharp, posterior ones rounded, surface rugose, three ridges near middle.
Third joint of maxillary palpi much longer than the fourth; legs stout, femur I twice as broad as the tibia, last tarsal joint more than twice as long as others together.
Female ventral plate very large, emarginate in the middle behind.
Wings long; about 15 costal crossveins, four cross-veins beyond end of subcosta; three branches ta radial sector beyond anastomosis, 8 to 10 median cross-veins, 6 or 7 cubital cross-veins, in hind wings the anal fork has five branches.. Expanse 54 mm.
From Monte Soccoro, Colombia, 3,600 m. (Fassl).
Isoperla texana n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
3.
Yellowish; a faint dark V-mark connecting the ocelli; palpi yellowish brown, antennae pale on basal fourth, dark beyond; pronotum brown on the sides; abdomen yellow above and below, setae pale yellow, the tips dark; legs yellow, a black streak on outer side of femora and on basal outer part of tibse, and the tips of tarsi dark; wings brownish, veins dark brown, costal area yellowish.
Posterior ocelli a little nearer to eyes than to each other, bosses about half way from ocelli to bases of antennae; pronotum one and a half times as broad as long, hardly broader in front, sides straight, corners right-angled, sides coarsely rugulose; fore wings with two or three cross-veins beyond the end of the subcosta; radial sector forked twice beyond the anastomosis, about six median and five cubital cross-veins.
Expanse 23 mm.
From Kerrville, 19 June; Dallas, 20 May; Victoria, 26 May; and Devils River, 3 May, all Texas.
Type in U. S. Natl.
Museum.
PSOOID^.
Psocus stigmosalis n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
IS.
In general similar to P. semistriatus, but the stigma is more slender and marked with black, mostly behind.
Nasus lineated with black,.
a black spot in front of the ocelli, and the vertex mostly dark in the middle; antennae minutely hairy, the second joint about as long as the distance between the eyes.
Thorax black, a yellow Y-mark in front; legs brownish yellow; wings hyaline, veins dark, vein closing the cell and base of radial fork whitish hyaline, a dark dot at base of the stigma, the stigma very long, much longer than the longest side of the cell, very low and evenlj^ rounded behind, almost wholly blackish, dark dot at end of anal vein.
The cell about once and a-half longer than broad at base, four-sided, tip about one-half ■of base.
Length 4 mm.
From Cambridge, Mass., September, Franconia, N. H., Bear Mt., Salisbury, and East River, Conn. (Ely).
Caecilius posticus n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
15.
Body dark, perhaps discolored; legs and antennae pale yellowish.
Wings hyaline; fore wings mostly dark on basal part, but some pale near base, and on costal area, and behind.
A streak runs down the cubitus to the areola postica; the upper branch of the radial sector is also margined with dark brown, and the three marginal cells also dark brown, the brown extending into the areola postica.
The upper branch of the radial sector runs more vertical than usual, ending just beyond the stigma; the latter long and slender, unmarked.
Hind wings are hyaline.
Length 2.7 mm.
From Sea Cliff, N. Y., in August.
Caecilius umbrosus n. sp.
Yellowish; nasus and clypeus dark brown, a brown, median streak on face and vertex; the antennae pale; legs pale; thoracic notum dark brown; abdomen mostly pale, dark at tip.
Wings pale brown, rather darker near veins and toward tip, stigma also darker; venation brown, the vein at base of anal cell hyaline white.
Second joint of antennae not as long as vertex width in female, in male one and a fourth longer, third joint two-thirds as long as the second.
Wings rather long, stigma large, about three times as long as Avide, nearly angulate behind, the two parts of the pedicel of radial fork subequal in length, anal cell plainly longer than high.
Length 3 mm.
From Hillside, Fulton Co., N. Y.
(Alexander), and Sea Cliff, L. L, N. Y. EPHEMERIDuE.
Anagenesia greeni n. sp.
Grayish yellow; abdomen blackish above, thoracic notum dark; front legs mostly gray, others pale yellowish, setae white, with extremely long' white hair.
Wings gray, veins yellowish, the subcosta and radius dark.
Vein 8 emits two branches from above near base, and then forks below, the branch running to middle of hind margin; between this fork and vein 8 are four longitudinal veins, the third a branch of the second, the fourth a branch of third (in this respect nearer typical Palingenia).
Vein 9 connected several times to fork of 8; vein 9^ unconnected.
Vein 6 forked plainly before middle of wing, one long intercalary in this fork.
Expanse 28 mm.
From Peradeniya, Ceylon, 17 March (Green).
Hexagenia callineura n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
13.
9 .
Yellowish; a broad black band on face from eye to eye through ocelli, facial carina with a black spot; pronotum and thorax with a black stripe each side; a black stripe on each upper side of abdomen, on the tip of each segment the stripe is broader than on base.
Leg I rather reddish, last tarsal joint blackish; other legs paler, tips of femora and tibiae dark.
Wings hyaline; most of veins yellowish, subcosta and radius dark, cross-veins dark, some in base of fore wings narrowly bordered; in hind wings the veins pale, cross-veins dark, in discal part are about 16 or 18 cross-veins black, narrowly bordered with white or hyaline, and outside of this a blackish fusiform mark, giving these veins a strikingly beautiful appearance.
Setse pale, some joints dark at tip.
Expanse 44 mm.
From Call, Colombia, 1,000 m.
(Fassl.).
Ehoenanthus posticus n. sp.
cf.
Yellowish, much marked with dark brown.
A dark mark between eyes; pronotum broadly dark each side, thorax with a faint brown median streak, a dark brown line each side to base of fore wings, below this a large dark spot, a spot on pleura under fore wings.
Abdomen yellow, base brown, each segment, beyond second, with a long dark U-mark each side, leaving a narrow median yellow stripe, last segment pale above; venter pale, each seg-ment with a dark streak or spot; tip of forceps dark; setse pale, tips of joints dark; legs pale, claws dark; leg I more reddish, tip of tibia dark.
Tibia I of male almost twice as long as femur, tarsal joints one and two subequal, third three-fourths of second, fourth about one-third of third.
Wings hardly hyaline, veins brown, apical costal area red-brown, and the subcostal area to base also red-brown; the costals in basal part of wing are margined; beyond middle of wing are four dark spots, the outer three in a transverse row, the other, larger, is on the forking of vein 6.
Hind wings with tip and veins brown, and a brown spot near outer third on the first fork.
Expanse 27 mm.
From Kandy, 4 November, Ceylon (Green).
Leptophlebia assimilis n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
8.
Very close to L. prcepedita, but in male the basal joints of forceps: seen from below are widely divergent, and this basal piece does not extend so far out below the next piece as in L. pnepedita (in L. prcepedita the basal pieces seen from beneath are close together).
Marked much as L. prcepedita, but no trace of color in the costal area of wings, middle segments of the abdomen bordered behind with dark, ventral segments with a blotch on each side.
Leg I of male with about same proportions as in L. prcBpedita, but whole leg shorter; no costals in apical part of wing crossed.
Expanse 14 mm.
From Black Mt., north fork Swannanoa River, N. C, May.
Ephemerella vernalis n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
11.
(^.
Size and appearance of E. excrucians, but in leg I of cf the tarsi are fully one-fourth longer, the third joint being over threefourths as long as second (in E. excrucians much shorter).
Markings of body, legs and setae as in E. excrucians, venter shows no marks, the last two segments being dark.
Venation about the same, the costals in apical part are crossed.
In.
the male forceps the next to last joint is plainly swollen.
Expanse 22 mm.
From Black Mt., north fork Swannanoa River, N. C, May.
Habrophlebia jocosa n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
14. cf .
Head and thorax dark brown; abdomen dark on base and tip, segments 3 to 6 each with a very large median triangular pale mark occupying most of these segments, segment 7 with a pale basal band.
Venter mostly pale, dark at base and tip; setse white, legs whitish, femur I nearly black, tip of tibia I dark; in tarsus I the first joint is nearly one-half of the tibia, second joint almost as long as first, third fully one-half of second ; mid and hind legs very slender.
Wings hyaline, unmarked, veins pale, indistinct, five costals in the swollen apical part; hind wings about twice as long as broad, angulate on the middle of costa.
Expanse 10 mm.
From Asheville and Black Mt., north fork of the Swannanoa River, N. C, in May.
H. americana has hind femora banded twice, and dorsum of the abdomen darker.
Callibsetis semicostata n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
7. cf.
Brownish; many parts, especially venter, finely dotted, some of the thoracic sutures are whitish; legs pale, darker on tips 'Of the tarsi, setse white.
Wings hyaline, veins pale, a light brown 'Or reddish l)rown streak extending from middle of base one-half way out to tip, it is bounded in front by the subcosta and behind by the fourth vein, it contains two or three pale dots, sometimes a few dark marks in costal area.
Two rows of cross-veins, the outer not much more than their length from the margin; marginal intercalaries in pairs.
Hind wings fully twice as long as broad, angulate in front.
Expanse 17 mm.
From Stony Mt., Manitoba, 16 September (Wallis).
Callibaetis pretiosa n. sp.
Brown; thoracic notum with two narrow white stripes above; abdomen with darker spots on sides; legs pale, tips of tibiae and tarsal joints dark; setse wh^te, the joinings dark.
Wings hyaline, veins and cross-veins mostly white, except where there are dark marks; five or six faint irregular clouds along the hind border, a fairly broad, brown stripe from base to tip on costa, its hind border sinuate with four projections, four hyaline spots in the subcostal area before middle, about five pale spots on costal area before middle, and several more or less connected beyond.
Outer row of crossveins not twice their length from margin.
Marginal intercalaries single, except toward tip of wing.
Expanse 14 mm.
From Great Falls, Va., 11 September.
Heptagenia coxalis n. sp.
d^.
Pale yellowish, carina of face dark each side above, antennae pale, thoracic notum with indistinct median darker streak, base of abdomen dark above, beyond pale, segments not plainly marked, but last two are dark; legs pale, a black line, wider at each end, at base of the hind coxa, femora faintly dark at tips, and tip of tibia I dark; claspers pale; setae pale, dark at tips of joints.
Wings hyaline, veins brown, apical costal area brownish yellow, some of the costals faintly margined; 8 costals before bulla, 14 beyond, all simple.
Tarsus I of male has first joint about one-third of second, the third equal second, fourth twice as long as first, fifth fully as long as first.
9 .
Mostl}' yellow throughout, black line on hind coxa as in cf ; some costals margined.
Expanse 21 mm.
From Clear Creek, Colo. (Oslar).
Heptagenia subeequalis n. sp.
cf .
Head and thorax rather reddish yellow, a shining black ring at base of each ocellus, antennae pale, thoracic notum rather dark behind, abdomen pale, segments dark on apical one-third or onehalf above, last three segments brownish, claspers pale, setae faintly dark ; legs pale, a black dot at tip of femur and tibia I ; wings hyaline, veins and cross-veins mostly brown, apical costal portion brownish yellow, no costals nor radial cross-veins margined; hind wings not dark at tip, in fore wing about five costals before bulla, fourteen beyond, a few near the middle are crossed.
In the tarsus I of male the first joint is fully two-thirds of second, the third equals second, the fourth scarcely longer than first, the fifth not one-third of first.
Expanse 17 mm.
From Black Mt., north fork Swannanoa River, N. C, May.
Heptagenia Carolina n. sp.
cf .
Head and thorax pale yellowish or reddish yellow, no distinct marks on either head or thorax, basal joints of antennse pale, rest black.
Abdomen pale, more grayish, 'each segment with a narrow apical dark ring of even width all around, penultimate segment rather darker, claspers brown, setae brownish.
Legs pale, femora I and II with mechan and apical dark bands, hind femur dark near tip, tibia and the tarsal joints narrowly dark at tips.
Wings hyaline, rather brownish yellow in apical costal part and extending around to the tip, venation brown; the costals, or most of them, with a dark spot at costal end, the first three or four radial cross-veins narrowly margined, then one or two broadly margined with dark; tip of hind wings slightly fumose.
In fore wing only about six costals before bulla, about ten beyond.
Tarsus I of male has the first joint a little more than one-half of second, third equal second, fourth longer than first, fifth not one-half of first.
Expanse 24 mm.
9 .
Yellow or reddish yellow throughout, the abdominal segments narrowly dark at tips above, setae faintly dark, darker at tips of the joints, femora faintly dark in middle and tip, apical part of tarsi dark.
Wings as in the male, two or three radial cross-veins broadly margined.
Expanse 30 mm.
From Black Mt., north fork Swannanoa River, N. C, in May.
ASCALAPHID^.
Phalascusa cruciger n. sp.
Yellowish; tips of lateral fringe of face gray; vertex with gray and black hair; antenna) black; thorax yellow above; a brown mark near base of fore wings, a brown median line on anterior lobe and behind this is a brown cross; metascutellum with median brown mark.
Abdomen of female short, swollen in middle, white-haired at base, above with two rows of yellow spots, separated b}' black line as in P. hildcbranrlti; pleurse pale, with a brown stripe which is furcate in front; lej^>; i)ale yellow, tarsi faintly brown.
Wings hyaline, much more slender than in P. hildehrandti, each wing with two brown spots, one at base, another larger over origin of radial sector and ol)liquely back to margin, some cross-veins between spots are margined, and some costals also with yellowish brown.
Expanse 58 mm.
From River Errer, Abyssinia, Africa (Kristensen) .
Suhpalasca orsedice n. sp.
Blackish; face below yellowish, gray hair below antennse, above darker or even black, club of antennae wholly dark, antennae reaching about four cells from stigma; thorax hardly paler in the middle; abdomen of female dark, in male rather yellowish above, black streak on sides, venter pale; legs black, femora yellowish, at least near base.
Wings hyaline, venation dark, stigma nearly black, in fore wing scarcely longer above than high, with four veinlets, in hind wings a little longer, with five veinlets, two rows of cells beyond stigma.
In fore wing the radial sector arises much beyond the cubital fork, four cross-veins before it, in hind wing only two crossveins before radial sector, in both wings five branches to the radial sector.
Expanse 58 mm.
From Singla, Dargiling, India (Type in Indian Museum; cotype in author's .collection).
MYRMELEONID^.
Dendroleon javanus n. sp.
Head pale, a large black band between eyes extending above and below the antennse, vertex darker, darker across posterior part; palpi wholly pale; pronotum dark in middle, and irregularly on the sides, thoracic notum dark, with a few pale spots on sides; abdomen dark, paler on base; legs pale, tips of femora and tibia dark, tibiae I and II with broad dark band before middle, femur I with a dark streak above, coxae I with dark spot in front.
Wings hyaline, veins pale and dark, subcosta with dark dots, the radius and cubitus with long dark streaks, many cross-veins entirely dark, an oblique line up from end of anal vein in fore Avings, a recurved line (extending tow'ard the first one) from middle of hind margin, another dark line or streak on cross-veins up from union of median and cubitus, a short dark streak and spot just before the tip of wing, and outer margin with many dark patches; in hind wings the apical and outer marginal marks are present as in the fore wings.
Pronotum longer than broad, narrowed in front; legs very long and slender, the tarsi very long, the basal joint ^s long as the apical, and each as long as other three together, spurs long and slender, nearly straight, except at tip, covering two joints; tibia as long as femur.
Wings rather broad at stigma, the hind pair plainly longer than front pair, and narrower; a few costals forked before stigma, in fore wings three cross-veins before radial sector, one in hind wings, in both the anal stops soon after cubital fork, ten branches of radial sector, about 25 radial cross-veins before the black-margined one.
Expanse, fore wings, 75 mm.
From Java (Berlin Museum).
Acanthaclisis hesperus n. sp.
Similar to A. fallax Rbr.
The pronotum shows a dark median stripe, forked In front, lateral margins black, and between is a dark stripe reaching to the transverse groove.
Abdomen above distinctly striped with pale; male appendages yellowish; venter black.
Wings with many small spots by veins, dark spots between subcosta ,and radius, but not between median and cubitus; hind wings without marks; forks of axillary vein of fore wings connected by several cross-veins.
Larger than any A. fallax I have seen.
From Eureka, Utah, 15 July, and Jemez Mts., N.
Mex., 28 July and 4 August (Spaldings, Woodgate).
Separated from A. fallax by black venter.
A. texana Hagen, I take to be A. fallax.
I have this latter species from Phoenix, Ariz., as well as Mexico.
From A. americana these forms may be separated thus: 1.
Forks of axillary vein in fore wings not connected by cross-veins; a spot in apical part of hind wings; dark between median and cubital vein of fore \\dngs; male genitalia black; venter black, the abdomen not striped above americana.
Forks of axillary vein of fore wings connected by one to three cross-veins; no spot in hind wings; abdomen more or less plainly striped with pale above; male appendag(5s mostly yellowish : 2.
2.
Venter yellowish fallax.
Venter black hesperus.
Jlyrmeleon agriope n. sp.
Very similar to M. crudelis Walk., but the vertex shows a transverse row of four large pale spots, the submedian pair being longitudinal, the lateral ones transverse and extending to the eyes; behind -on the vertex are pale spaces in middle and on the sides.
The pronotum shows pale mark in middle of anterior part, the sides largely pale, -with a narrow dark stripe reaching as far as the transverse furrow.
The wings are similar to that species, with clotted veins, and longer dark spaces on subcosta, radius and cubitus.
In fore A\nngs are about seven cross-veins before radial sector, in the hind wings about four such cross-veins, in both pairs eight branches to the radial sector.
Expanse 53 to 55 mm.
From Claremont, Calif., and Nogales and Phoenix, Ariz. Myrmeleon heriocles n. sp.
Face shining black, in front with two submecUan projections, mouth and cheeks pale, tips of palpi dark; vertex black, wdth transverse row of more or less shining rufous spots; antennae black, basal joints pale; pronotum dull black, but lateral half of anterior part pale, and the margin of posterior part also pale; thorax dull black, with pale yellow stripe through the bases of the wings, continuous with the pale margin of pronotum; abdomen dull black; legs pale, broad dark bands on middle of the femora, narrow bands near base and at tip of tibiae I and II, most of tarsi black, hind tibia with black stripe within; wings hyahne, veins dotted with dark, the subcosta, radius, and cubitus with longer dark spaces,, stigma dark.
In fore wings about nine cross-veins before radial sector, in hind wings six or eight such cross-veins, ten branches to radial sector in each wing, in fore wings three cross-veins between anal and cubital fork, in both pairs the tips are acute.
Expanse 70 to 73 mm.
From Southern Pines, N. C, in May; also occurs in Florida.
I had considered this as probably the M. tectus of Walker, but a view of the type shows that it is a different species.
Macronemurus darwini n. sp.
Face pale yellowish, with a median vertical dark mark, a dark spot below each antenna, vertex mostly dark, but usually pale each side near eye; antennae pale, darker at tip; palpi pale; pronotum pale, with a pair of submedian brown marks, sometimes faint; thorax yellowish brown, indistinctly marked, but usually with a pale median line; abdomen dark, often pale at base and some segments pale at base above, legs pale, unmarked, spines black, spurs equal two tarsal joints on front legs.
Wings with the longitudinal veins spotted with dark, and most of the cross-veins dark at one or both ends ; in both wings is a long dark brown streak from near end of median and cubitus out toward tip, and usually a series of spots beyond the stigma to near the tip.
In fore wings six cross-veins before the radial sector, eight or nine branches to the radial sector 41 in each wing; in fore wings the anal is connected three or four times to cubital fork.
Expanse 40-46 mm.
From Port Darwin, N. Australia.
Acratoleon n. gen.
Similar to Paraglenurus, but claws not as long and more curved; spurs about as long as four tarsal joints.
Legs slender, the tibia about as long as the femur.
Antennae long, hardly diameter apart at base ; palpi very short.
Wings moderately Inroad at stigma, outer margin not sinuate, hind wings a little longer than front pair, one cross-vein in hind wings before the radial sector, about seven such cross-veins in the fore wings; the radial sector arises much before the cubital fork.
Acratoleon flavum n. sp.
Pi.
XXVIII, fig.
6.
Pale yellowish; a dark mark each side under antennae, a dark spot each side on vertex; palpi all pale; antennae pale yellow, tip dark; pronotum pale, a dark interrupted stripe near each margin, broader behind; thorax pale, dark streak over bases of wings, pleurae with large dark spot under fore wings, a smaller spot under hind wings.
Abdomen pale, tips of segments dark.
Wings hyaline; veins pale yellow, those behind radius marked with dark at ends of the cross-veins, cross-veins nearly all dark and mostly margined with dark, a dark mark above in front of stigma, outer margin to the outer forkings mostly faintly dark, and dark cloud over end of anal; in hind wing venation similar to fore wing, and with two dark streaks near tip of wing, one on the anterior margin.
Legs pale yellow, with black liristles, spurs and claws pale.
Pronotum one and onehalf times as long as broad, a little narrowed in front; legs slender, spurs very long and nearly straight, almost reaching to last joint, basal joint much shorter than the fifth; hind wings longer than fore wings and a little more narrow; fore wings broad at stigma and rather short beyond, costals mostly simple, seven cross-veins before radial sector, about eight branches of radial sector, 28 radial crossveins, anal connected four times to cubital fork in fore wings, only twice in hind wings.
Expanse, fore wings, 65 mm.
From Salamo Archipel., Shortlands Island (C. Ribbe).
Type in Berlin Museum.
This new genus is placed in the following table of the genera of the IndoAustralasian region.
In this table a hitherto unused character, the condition of the anal veins in the fore wings, is considered of prime importance.
(PI.
XXVIII, figs.
20, 21, 22, 23, 24.)
1.
Four separate anal veins in the fore wing; in hind wings the anal is not connected directly to the hind margin, but to the second anal by a series of cross-veins (Palparini) 2.
Two or three anal veins in fore wing; in hind wings the anal is connected by cross-veins directly to the margin 4.
2.
Two or more series of costal cells near to base of wing Stenares.
But one series of costal cells until near the stigma 3.
3.
Antennae not their diameter apart at base; the basal joint with long bristles Palpares.
Antennae more than their diameter apart at base Tomatares.
4.
In the fore wings the second and third anal veins are separate, but connected by a short crossvein; a line in apex of the fore wings (Dendroleonini) 5.
In the fore wings the second and third anal veins are united for at least one point 11.
5.
In the hind wings the anal vein runs parallel to the cubitus for a long distance, finally curving to the margin beyond the middle of wing Echthomyrmex.
In hind wings the anal runs to margin in a normal manner 6.
6.
Legs very slender, spurs very long and nearly straight, the first tarsal joint about as long as the last Dendroleon.
Spurs and legs shorter; first tarsal joint much shorter than the last 7.
7.
Outer margin of wings barely sinuate 9.
Outer margin of wings sinuate or excised 8.
8.
Many radial cross-veins are crossed; the venation very dense; outer margin of wings sinuate Episalus.
Radial cross-veins not crossed; outer margin of wings excised, Periclystus.
9.
Many of the costals crossed; abdomen about as long as wings; cubito-anal crossveins longer than anal crossveins, Epicanthaclisis.
Few of costals crossed; abdomen much shorter than wings 10.
10.
Cubito-anal cross-veins shorter than anal crossveins; venation irregular Layahima.
Cubito-anal cross-veins longer than anal cross-veins; venation fairly regular Glenoleon.
11.
One cross-vein before radial sector in the hind wings, (Macronemurini) 12.
Three or more cross-veins before the radial sector in the hind A\dngs; antennae wide apart at base (Myrmeleonini) 20.
12.
No spurs to tibiae 13.
Spurs distinct 14.
13.
Many costals forked; two series of anal cells for part of the way Chrysoleon.
Costals simple; one series of anal cells; wings rather narrow, Compsoleon.
14.
In fore wings the anal vein runs parallel to the cubitus for a long distance '.
15.
In fore wings the anal vein does not parallel the cubitus; a divergent cubital fork present 16.
15.
First tarsal joint much shorter than the fifth Creagris.
First tarsal joint about as long as the fifth Protoplectron.
16.
Legs rather short and stout 17.
Legs very slender, tibia about as long as the femur; no line in apex of fore wings 18.
17.
Spurs about as long as first two joints of tarsus together, Macronemurus.
Spurs as long as three or four tarsal joints together.
Distoleon.
18.
Radial sector arises much before the cul^ital fork; spurs as long as three or four tarsal joints Acratoleon.
Radial sector arises much beyond the cubital fork; spurs hardly more than two tarsal joints 19.
19.
Claws very long, little curved, half as long as last tarsal joint; pronotum rather short Paraglenurus.
Claws not one-half as long as last tarsal joint; pronotum long and slender Indoleon.
20.
Legs short and stout; spurs much longer than basal joint of tarsus, which is short 21.
Legs more slender; spurs but little longer than basal joint of tarsus 24.
21.
Larger species; legs very stout and hairy; spurs much curved or even bent 22.
Smaller species; legs not very stout; spurs but little curved; costal area with but one series of cells Myrmec^lurus.
22.
Hind Avings with a double series of costal cells; antennae very long; veinlets before origin of radial sector in fore wing are crossed Stiphroneura.
Hind A\angs with but one series of costal cells 23.
23.
Second and third anal veins in fore wing form a closed cell, Onclus.
Second and third anal do not form a closed cell ..Acanthaclisis.
24.
Branches of radial sector are bent to form a line or groove in apical part of the wing Nesoleon.
No such lin(> of bent veins in apical part of wing 25.
25.
Fore wings with a double series of costal cells in middle of length; a single series at each end Weelius.
A double series of costal cells only near the stigma 26.
26.
A series of (ionnecting veinlets just before the stigma; wings very broad at stigma Hagenomyia.
No such series, perhaps one or two veinlets connected to others, several may be forked 27.
27.
Some crossveins before radial sector crossed; wings broad at stigma Callistoleon.
No crossveins before radial sector crossed; wings narrow throughout > Myrmeleon.
CHRYSOPID^.
Allochrysa boliviana n. sp.
Y(41()wish green; palpi unmarked; basal joint of antennae with a red stripe on outer side; pronotum unmarked, longer than broad, narrowed in front; thorax and legs pale; abdomen marked with reddish on the middle of some segments towards tip.
Wings hyaline, venation green; stigma not distinct in fore wings; in hind wings is a dark spot; no dark spots on union of cubitus and median near margin of wing; in fore wings the outer gradates are brown, outer ends of costals,' middle of first few radials, origin of radial sector, and one or more cross-veins behind it dark.
Wings rather long, fore ones not acute, hind ones plainly acute, in fore wings 9 outer and 14 or 15 inner gradates, reaching far up toward the base (as in A. Colombia); in hind wings 7 outer and 11 inner gradates.
Expanse 38 mm.
From Rio Longo, Bolivia, 750 m. (Fassl).
Alloclirysa nigrilabris n. sp.
Yellowish green; labrum jet black, a black V-mark between and above the bases of the antennae, basal joint of antennae with a red spot outside; pronotum pale, hardly longer than broad; thorax above with large black spots as in A. Colombia and A. varia and black spots above on some segments of the abdomen toward the tip; legs pale.
Wings hyaline, venation green, gradates dark, a dark spot in stigma, and in fore wings one on the union of median and cubitus near margin, many radials at each end, the origin of radial sector, several anals, the lower part of end of second cubital cell, and the upper part of end of third cubital cell dark.
In fore wings 7 outer and 10 inner gradates; in hind wings 7 outer and 8 inner gradates.
Expanse 38 mm.
From St. Antonio, Colombia, 1,800 m., December (Fassl).
Allochrysa riveti Navas.
Described from Ecuador, occurs in Colombia and Panama.
Allochrysa titan n. sp.
Body large and heavy.
Pale yellowish or greenish, palpi mostly black, a faint red spot each side at base of clypeus, vertex with a red triangle, red stripe on outer side of basal joint of antennae, joints beyond for about one-third way out blackish on outer side.
Pronotum with two red marks each side, almost making a stripe, rest of thorax, abdomen, legs, and wings unmarked, latter with some black veinlets, some of the radial cross-vein partly black, and some of the gradates near end of the series black; stigma indistinct.
Antennae but Uttle longer than wings, pronotum much broader than long, but little narrowed in front; abdomen short, the tip of the last ventral segment roundedly produced in the middle.
Wings long, barely acute, costal area not very wide; about 18 radial crossveins before stigma; radial sector arises nearer base than usual, the second cubital cell is fully as high, as long on upper side, the third oblique, and very obliquely divided, about 13 gradates in each series, wide apart, the inner series curving up and getting near the radial sector, in the fore wings between the two series are two or three gradates of an intermediate series; many of the outer forks fully four or five times as long as wide.
Expanse 65 mm.
From Limon, Costa Rica, 24 May, Schaus.
The largest species of the genus.
Type in U. S. National Museum.
Allochrysa torquatus Navas.
Similar to A. nigriceps, but larger, and the pronotum pale, and longer, and narrowed in front.
Head, basal joints of antennae, and thoracic notum black.
Wings marked as in A. nigriceps, but the stigmal spot does not extend so far inward, and that at the end of the cubitus is larger and does not extend out along the gradates; in hind wings there is no spot at end of the cubitus.
Expanse 45 mm.
From Alajuela, 9 April, Trinidad River, 2 May, Panama (Busck).
In U. S. National Museum.
Navas has lately described this species from Guatemala under the name "Gonzaga torquatus.
'^ There is not the slightest need of a generic name for this section of the genus Allochrysa, which also includes A. nigriceps and A. paUiceps.
Leucochrysa cinctipes n. sp.
Rather grayish yellow; last joint of palpi black, faint marks on face, faint line on the outer side of basal joint of antennae; legs with faint dark bands on tips of femora, near base and tip of tibia, and the extreme tip of tarsi black.
Wings hyaUne, with gradates gray, many cross-veins brown at ends; stigma whitish, with dark spot at each end, in hind wings there is a faint cloud over the end of cubitus, near the margin, ends of veins on all of margin brown; fore wings with gradates 6 7; in fore wings the radial sector has no connecting cross-vein near its base to the third cubital cell, but there is a cross-vein b(>fore the radial sector to the third cubital cell.
Expanse 30 mm.
From Corazal, Canal Zone, Panama, 11 June (Busck), Type in U. S. National Museum.
A very remarkable species on account of venation, and will go in the genus Berchmansus of Navas.
Leucochrysa apicalis n. sp.
Pale yellowish, a brown clot under each eye; pal]:)i with dark on penultimate joint; antennae very long, pale, basal joint with a large brown spot above at tip; pronotum much narrower in front, with a dark reddish side line; mesonotum with a dusky spot each side above the fore wings; abdomen and legs pale.
Wings with green venation; stigma with dark spot in hind wings, in fore wings indistinct; in hind wings the radial sector is dark for a short distance before stigma, not in the fore wings.
In fore wings the gradates, most of the crossveins in part, origin of the radial sector, divisory veinlet in part, and vein at base of the third cubital cell dark.
In hind wings the gradates and some radial cross-veins near stigma dark.
Gradates 6 and 7 in fore wing, 4 and 5 in hind wing; the inner series as near to radial sector as to outer series.
The third cubital cell very much longer than the second; marginal forks two and a half to three times longer than broad.
Expanse 28 mm.
From Rio Pacaya, Peru, August.
Leucochrysa marginalis n. sp.
Similar to L. azevedoi Navas, but the gradates all pale, no dark marginal forks, the hind margin of hind wing is dark for most of length, the radial sectors are black for a short distance in both wings and the veinlets above the black portion are also black, the stigma with black basal spot, outer ends of costals, some radial cross-veins, and others in basal part of wing are black, also the origin of the radial sector.
Head with a red band under antennae, red stripe on basal joint, and red spot each side on the vertex, basal part of antennae with black line on lower side, pronotum with red band near base, and spots each side, two red spots on front of mesothorax, and two on the scutellum, metathorax marked in the same way, abdomen with red spots on most of the segments above.
Venation about as in L. azevedoi, 13-14 gradates, the inner series as near to radial sector as to outer series, and extending basally, the median vein running into the outer series; in hind wings 10-10 gradates.
Expanse 50 mm.
From Rio Longo, Bolivia (Fassl).
Several of the species placed by Navas in his table of South American Leucochrysa belong to Allochrysa; such are nigriceps, palliceps, and internata.
Allochrysa vigoi appears to be the same as A. palliceps.
Leucochrysa submacula nsp.
Pale yellowish, face with a dark or reddish spot each side under antennae and close to the eyes, second and third joints of the maxillary palpi with black spots, antennae pale, basal joint with a dark streak on the outer side, vertex rather reddish in front part of the elevation; pronotum narrowed in front, and with a reddish spot near each anterior corner, thorax with a dark spot over base of the wings; abdomen pale, with dark spot near base and another beyond the middle.
Wings hyaline, stigma short, black, many cross-veins black at ends, gradates (5-6 fore wings, 4-4 hind wings) black, eight radial cross-veins before stigma, inner gradates nearer to radial sector than to outer series.
Expanse 27 mm.
From Bartica, British Guiana (Parish).
Leucochrysa callota n. sp.
Pale yellowish; a dark spot each side at base of the clypeus near the eyes, two dark dots on front of vertex above the antennae, basal joint of antennae with dark dot near tip; pronotum with a red-brown spot each side near middle of the side margin; thorax with a large spot each side above base of Avings, second segment of abdomen and some other segments marked with dark.
Wings hyaline; veins pale, many cross-veins dark at ends, gradates dark, stigma dark in both wings.
Pronotum hardly longer than broad, narrowed in front, 14 radial cross-veins, 7 inner, 8 outer gradates in fore wings, outer series as near inner as to margin, outer forks fully four times as long as broad; hind wings with six gradates in each series.
Expanse 33 mm.
From Austin, Texas (McClendon).
Chrysopa chacranella n. sp.
Similar to C. nosina Navas.
Black mark on cheek, reddish divergent mark on vertex, and sides of thorax with two blackish stripes, but here they are practically connected and not widely separated as in C. nosina.
The antennae are wholly pale, no mark on basal joint, there are no spots on the face under antennae, and the venation is not black at juncture of veins, the entire venation being pale.
Gradates 6-6 in both wings, the outer series as near to margin as to inner series.
Expanse 26 mm.
From Chacra di Coria, Argentine, 26 February ( Jensen-Haarup) .
Chrysopa figuralis n. sp.
Green; face with a rather broad red streak across it, palpi and antennae pale, basal joint of latter more yellowish, vertex with two broad red stripes near middle, narrowed in front and united just above antennae, a red line each side near eyes; pronotum a little broader than long, with a very broad reddish stripe, containing a darker red median line, the red extending back on the anterior lobe of mesothorax.
Venation green, costals, gradates, radials, and divisory all l^lack, other veins and branches dark in part; in hind wing the gradates and costals, and endings of veins on radial sector black; 18 costals, 3-6 gradates in each wing, inner series much nearer outer than to radial sector; marginal forks hardly twice as long as broad; divisory ends beyond the cross-vein, the third cubital -cell barely broader at tip.
Expanse 29 mm.
From Chosica, Peru, 2,800 feet, 10 June (Parish).
Chrysopa incalis nsp.
Deep green; palpi and antennae pale, unmarked, no marks on head or rest of body except that the pronotum has a faint yellowish stripe on each side a little distance from margin.
Pronotum about ^s broad as long.
Venation green, gradates, costals, except at costal end, radials on middle and a few other veins near base in part black; in hind wings some costals and the gradates scarcely dark.
Wings rather broad, hind pair acute at tips, 21 costals, 5-7 gradates in fore wing, 3-7 in hind wing, the series parallel, inner series twice as near outer as to the radial sector, divisory ends beyond cross-vein, marginal forks about three times as long as broad.
Expanse 30 mm.
From Matucana, Peru, 7,780 feet, 14 June, and Chosica, Peru, 2,800 feet, 10 June, both from Mr. Parish.
•Chrysopa asoralis n. sp.
Green, a pale yellow median stripe on thorax and abdomen, face with red stripe each side on cheeks, sometimes a red dot on vertex each side near eyes, otherwise unmarked, palpi and antennae pale.
Pronotum much broader than long.
Wings with green venation, ■gradates and origin of racUal sector dark, costals, radials and a few other veins dark at ends; in hind wings gradates, ends of costals, and some radials dark; 22 costals, 6-8 gradates in fore wing 5-7 in hind wing, the series parallel, inner one-half way from radial sector to outer series, many marginals two or more times longer than broad, the divisory ends at or just before the cross-vein.
Expanse 28 mm.
From Chosica, Peru, 2,800 feet, 7 June, Matucana, Peru, 7,780 feet, 14 June, and La Cumbre, Colombia, 6,600 feet, May, all taken by Mr. Parish.
It is related to Ch.
losva Navas, which I have from Monte del Eden, Ibaque, Colombia, 9,000 feet (Fassl), but the inner gradates do not extend basally.
Chrysopa hesperina n. sp.
Pale greenish; thorax with a pale median stripe; head with red stripe on cheeks, an oblique spot under each antenna, and vertex with a line each side near eyes, red; last joint of palpi black; antennae pale, unmarked, rest of body also unmarked.
Pronotum about as broad as long.
Wings scarcely acute at tips, with green venation; costals, radials, cubital and median cross-veins wholly dark, as also the gradates, branches of radial sector, and forkings of marginals dark in part, origin of radial sector, and tip of divisory vein dark; 14 costals, third cubital cell not very long, divisory ends beyond cross-vein, gradates 5-6, inner series scarcely nearer to outer than to radial sector, marginal forks not twice as long as broad.
In hind wings costals and gradates black, and also the ends of veins ending in middle portion of radial sector black; gradates 4-6.
Expanse 22 mm.
From Caldras, Colombia, May, 4,400 feet (Parish), and Call, Colombia, May, 500 feet (Parish).
Chrysopa breviata nsp.
Pale greenish or yellowish, head unmarked, palpi marked with black, antennae pale, more yellowish on base; pronotum about twice as broad as long, a large red spot on each anterior side; rest of body and the legs pale, unmarked.
Wings with green venation, costals, radials, gradates, some other cross-veins, bases of radial branches, origin of radial sector, part of divisorius, and marginal forks black.
In hind wings a few costals and the gradates black.
Wings short, almost rounded at tip, about 16 costals, third cubital cell one-half as wide at base as at tip, divisory ending a little beyond cross-vein; in fore wing 3 to 5 outer, and 2 or 3 inner gradates; in hind wing 4 to 6 outer, and 1 or 2 inner gradates; the inner nearly twice as close to outer as to the racUal sector; marginal forks not twice as long as broad.
Expanse 18 to 20 mm.
From Guayaquil (Parish) and Quevedo, Ecuador.
Chrysopa azygota n. sp.
Pale yellowish or greenish, a Ijlackish stripe on each cheek, a dot on middle of face, and second and third joints of antennse blackish, a dark stripe on outer side of basal joint, and tips of palpi dark; rest of body and legs pale, unmarked.
Wings with pale venation, much marked by brown, at ends of costals, radials, and other crossveins, origin and branches of radial sector in part dark; gradates, lower base of third cubital and several basal cross-veins wholly dark; hind A\angs with gradates wholly and some costal and radial cross-veins partly dark, stigma not distinct.
Wings narrow, acute at tips, gradates subparallel, nearer to each other than to outer margin or radial sector; 5 to 7 in fore wing, 2 to 4 in hind wings, each much farther than its length from the next; 15 costals in fore wing; divisory ends beyond cross-vein, third cubital cell twice as wide at tip as at base, the marginal forks little more than twice as long as wide.
Pronotum plainly broader than long.
Expanse 21 mm.
From Mt.
Makiling, Philippines (Baker).
Chrysopa ilota n. sp.
Pale yellowish or greenish; a dark stripe on each cheek; palpi lightly marked ^vith dark, no other marks except sides of pronotum rather darker; pronotum a little longer than broad and narrowed in front.
Wings moderately broad, acute at tips; venation pale, gradates and some basal cross-veins wholly dark, costals dark at lower end, radials at upper end, a few other crossveins partly dark; in hind \vings gradates, costals, and radials marked with dark.
Gradates subparallel, inner series as near radial sector as to outer series, latter nearer to margin than to inner series, 5 to 7 gradates in fore wing, 3 to 5 in hind wings, each more than their length apart, 20 costals in the fore wings before the stigma, latter long, faintly dark; marginal forks scarcely twice as long as broad; divisory ends much before cross-vein, third cubital about one-half as wide at base as at tip.
Expanse 25 mm.
From Mt.
Makiling, Philippines (Baker).
Chrysopa morota n. sp.
Pale yellowish or greenish, unmarked; palpi and antennae unmarked, margins of pronotum more greenish; wings long, acute at tips, venation green throughout, unmarked, the stigma long, brownish; gradates subparallel, but inner series is nearer to the radial sector than to outer, and latter nearer to margin than to inner series; 6 to 7 gradates in fore wings; 4 to 7 in the hind wings, each hardly a length apart; 17 costals before stigma in fore wing; the divisory ends just before the cross-vein, the third cubital cell at base not one-half as wide as at tip; marginal forks little more than twice as long as broad ; pronotum a little broader than long, much narro wedin front.
Expanse 23 mm.
From Mt.
Makiling, Philippines (Baker).
The species of Chrysopa now knoAvn from the Philippine Islands can be tabulated as below: Philippine Chrysop.e.
1.
Wings with some dark clouds .faceta Navas.
Wings not clouded 2.
2.
Second joint of the antennae dark, a dark median spot on face below antennae azygota.
Second joint of antennae pale 3.
3.
Venation partly dark, gradates dark ilota.
Venation pale, gradates pale 4.
4.
Gradates divergent; inner series at upper end very close to the radial sector tagalica.
Gradates subparallel 5.
5.
Inner gradates few (3 or 4), each much mora than its length from the next one; divisory veinlet ends beyond the cross-vein, isolata.
Inner gradates (6 or 7) scarcely their length apart; divisory veinlet ends before the cross-vein morota.
HEMEROBIID^.
Sympherobius intervenalis n. sp.
Yellowish, head without definite spots except one each side on vertex near the eyes; antennae pale, with three or four dark segments about one-third way out; palpi brown.
Pronotum brown, thorax with lobes at base of wings dark; abdomen brownish; legs pale.
Wings yellowish hyaline, with pale venation; the forkings of veins, costals at base, and some anal veins dark brown, the four gradates dark and bordered with dark brown, the two posterior disjointed from the two anterior by more than their length; a large dark brown spot in the subcostal area between subcosta and radius near base of Avings; behind it the cubital cross-vein is heavily dark, and the median and radial cross-veins near base are also dark.
The costal area is quite broad, about four times as broad as the subcostal area.
In the hind wings the stigma at tip and some of the outer forkings are dark; the entire margin of both wings with dots between veins.
Expanse 11 mm.
From Call, Colombia, 500 feet (Parish).
Sympherobius modestus var.
connexus n. var.
This is similar to the typical form, with the same markings more heavily developed; the four dark spots across the face are connected into a streak each side; the spots on upper and lower clypeus are connected; the front tibiae are plainly banded near base and at tip* the head and thorax with pale median stripe ; the wings very heavily marked with dark on plan of S. modestus, but the wings are about one-fourth longer than in that species, making the cells more elongate; the four outer gradates in pairs.
Expanse 14 mm.
From Chosica, Peru, 2,800 feet, 9 June (Parish).
I have received 5. modestus from Matucana, Peru (Parish Coll.).
TRIOHOPTERA.
CEcetina parish!
n. sp.
Yellowish, with yellow and gray hair; palpi densely gray-haired; antennae with tips of joints plainly blackish.
Wings yellowish gray, darker at tip, black along the outer margin, but here interrupted three times with pale, a tuft of black hair on anal margin toward base, surface with about ten black spots or marks; two near base, one above the tuft on anal margin, one on fork of radial sector, two or three at anastomosis, one beyond, one at end of radius, one at end of subcosta and one near arculus.
Hind wings with gray fringe, much longer than width of the wings.
In fore wings the discal cell is nearly as long as its pedicel, strongly convex above, fork 1 twice as long as its pedicel ; both wings acute at tips.
Expanse 12 mm.
From Mallali and Bartica, British Guiana (Parish).
Macronema fragilis n. sp.
Face yellowish, with whitish hair; antennae pale, faintly marked at tips of the joints; vertex brown; thoracic notum brown, abdomen pale on base, dark at tip; legs pale yellowish, hind tarsi darker; fore wings a nearly uniform brown, veins darker, an elongate pale spot over stigiiial area, broader on basal part, reaching to discal cell, apical part usually containing a dark spot, beyond this and half way to tip is a yellowish white spot extending from costa to fork 2, in base of second apical cell, just beyond discal cell, is a pale spot; hind wings gray, fringe black.
In structure extremely similar ta M. parvum, and venation practically the same.
Expanse 14 mm.
From Bartica, British Guiana, December (Parish).
Macronema picteli n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
9.
Similar to M. lineatum and M. argentilineatum, and probably the species referred to by Ulmer (Selys, Trich.
pt.
2, p. 69) under M. argentilineatum from British Guiana in Leyden Museum.
It differs from M. lineatum in small eyes, and longer, more pointed wings,, and the apical marks are a little different.
It differs from M. argentilineatum, in having fork 1 to hind wings, and in the position of the <5ostal cross-vein in fore wings, and the apical marks of fore wings.
The wings are long, dark brown; there is a transverse band of white in stigmal region, a crescentic white mark over tip of wing, and pale ;spots on outer margin in the cells.
Between the apical and stigmal marks is a large patch of golden hair, which when rubbed shows hyaline streaks in the bases of several apical cells.
Expanse 26 mm.
From Mallali, British Guiana, March (Parish).
Phylloicus brevior n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, figs.
2, 4.
Body yellowish, with yellow hairs; anterior part of the thorax blackish, and tip of abdomen dark; antennae black-haired, and sometimes a black spot over base of each antenna; a row of black Jiairs each side of face under the antennse; legs pale, most of fore and mid tarsi, all of hind tarsi and part of tibia black, three spurs on hind tibia, four on mid tibia.
Wings nearly evenly dark reddish brown, darker on costal area and on apex; hind wings also dark, more blackish.
Fore wings with venation much like that of P. ■abdominalis — that is, the first fork extends one-half way back on ■discal cell ; in the hind wings, however, the apical forks are longer, and there is no closed median cell; the male genitalia are exposed.
Expanse 19 mm.
From Bartica, British Guiana, December (Parish).
F F: F: F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F r F F F F F Explanation of Plate XXVIII.
g. 1.
— Neoperla holivari, ventral plate.
g. 2.
— Phylloicus brevior, genitalia of male.
g. 3.
— Isoperla lexana, ventral plate.
g. 4.
— Phylloicus brevior, tip of hind wing.
g. 5.
— Perln xcnocia, side and dorsal view cf genitaliia.
g. 6.
— Acraioleon flavum, tarsus I. g. 7.
— Callibcetis semicostata, clasper.
g. 8.
— Lepiophlebia assimilis, clasper and last dorsal segment.
g. 9.
— Macronema picleli, tip of fore wing.
g. 10.
— Neoperla pkdonis, ventral plate.
g. 11.
— Ephemerella vernalis, clasper.
g. 12.
— Perla xenocia, ventral plate.
g. 13.
— Hexagenia callineura, part of wing.
g. 14.
— Habrophlebia joco.sa, clasper.
g. 15.
— Ccecilius posticus, fore wing.
g. 16.
— Perln georgiana, ventral plate.
g. 17.
— Perlodcs dossotice, ventral plate.
g. 18.
— Psocus stigmosalis, fore wing.
g. 19.
— Perlodes tibialis, ventral plate.
g. 20.
— Pericli/dus, anal ar(>a fore wing.
g. 21.
— Indoleoii, anal area fore wing.
g. 22.
— (Jleitoleoii, anal area fore wing.
g. 23.—Distoleon, anal area fore wing.
g. 24.
— Mtjrmclcon, anal area fore wing.
g. 25.
— Paraxjlcnurus, tarsus I. g. 26.
— Perlodes signala Hagen, venter.
December 15.
The President, Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, in the Chair.
• Twenty-nine persons present.
The Publication Committee reported the receipt of a paper entitled "Miocene fossil insects," by T. D. A. Cockerell (November 30).
The deaths of the following members were announced: Horace Magee, January 10, 1912; George L. Knowles, October 27, 1914; William Redwood Wright, December 3, 1914.
The following was ordered to be printed: MIOCENE FOSSIL INSECTS.
BY T. D. A. COCKERELL.
The miocene insect beds at Florissant, Colorado, continue to furnish numerous undescribed species, and the time is still distant when it will be appropriate to bring all the data together in a single monograph.
To illustrate the wonderful richness of the Florissant shales, it is sufficient to mention Professor H. F. Wickham's collection made in 1912 at the Wilson Ranch.
In an excavation about 20 feet long and 6 feet deep he obtained over 90 species of Coleoptera, of which at least 40 were new.
In addition to this.
Professor Wickham, my wife, and I secured various species of other groups in this same excavation, so that probably there will be in all not less than 60 new species.
This particular spot had been looked over several times in previous years by University of Colorado expeditions, but had yielded nothing of particular value, because only the surface was examined.
On digging into the hill, the remarkable collection just mentioned was secured.
There can be no doubt that the Florissant shales are practically inexhaustible; but it is unfortunately true that many good fossils, some doubtless of species which will never be found again, have been collected and lost or placed where they are unlikely to fall into the hands of competent students.
Even in the larger museums there are still many undescribed Florissant species, and it will be some years before we have a complete account of the materials already gathered and in safe custody.
In Europe, the locality which we naturally compare with Florissant is ffiningen in Baden.
The beds, which I have examined so far as their present condition permits, are not, strictly speaking, at CEningen, but above the village of Wangen, on the Rhine.
They are doubtless extensive, and would yield much of value if reexcavated, but they have been neglected for many years.
Various European museums contain CEningen insects, but by far the richest collection is that of Heer at Zurich.
Heer estimated that he knew 844 species of fossil insects from ffiningen, but only 464 ever received published scientific names.
Of these no less than 250 were Coleoptera, but Professor Wickham records 494 described beetles from Florissant.
Eighty Hemiptera are from CEningcn, hut Florissant has about 230.
The Hymcnoptera from (Eningen numl)er 60, but those of Florissant are about 220, with only one of the many ants as.
yet published.
Thirty Diptera come from ffiningen, over 100 from Florissant.
(Eningen has only one recorded Trichopteron, Florissant 29.
The ffiningen list could be considerably increased if we added a number of species cited by their generic names or even less exactly, but not described or given specific names.
Experience shows that such records are too unreliable to be of much value, ffiningen has more species than Florissant in each of the following groups, as the lists stand at present.
(0.
= QCningen; F. = Florissant.)
Odonata^ — Libellulidse : O.
9, F. none.
However, the (Eningen species are simply a lot of nymphs; one, L. perse, is doubtfully from (Eningen.
Specimens of L. eurynome and L. doris are in the University of Colorado Museum.
Thysanoptera — Thripidae: 0.
2, F. none.
Orthoptera — Gryllotalpini3e : O.
1, F. none.
The (Eningen species is stated to be long and narrow, but we have no other details.
Coleoptera — Carabidse: O.
35, F. 33.
Dytiscidae: O.
9, F. 8.
Gyrinidse: 0.
2, F. none.
Scaphidiidse: 0.
2, F. none.
Histeridae: O.
9, F. none.
Elateridse: O.
10, F. 4 (but many more Florissant species await description) .
Buprestidse: 0.
31, F. 15.
Hydrophilidae: O.
17, F. 8.
Trogositidae: O.
7, F. 1.
Coccinellida : 0.
7, F. 3.
Scarabseidffi : 0.
34, F. 28.
Florissant especially outranks (Eningen in CurcuUonidffi (0.
24, F. 95) and Staphylinidse (0.
7, F. 45).
The most striking feature is the absence of Histerldai at Florissant.
It is curious that the lists contain no Cicindelidse.
Hymenoptera — Cephidse: O.
2, F. 1.
Sphecidse: 0.
4, F. 2.
(Eningen has 34 described species of ants, Florissant only one, but very numerous ants from the latter place await description by Dr. Wheeler.
Lepidoptera — Psychidae: O.
1 (a case), F. none.
Diptera — Bibionidse: O.
14, F. 4.
Chinonomidse: O.
3, F. none good enough to describe.
Tachinidse: O.
1, F. none.
Hemiptera — Reduviidse: O.
11, F. 3.
Naucoridse: 0.
2, F. none.
Belostomatidse: O.
2, F. 1.
Nepidse: 0.
1, F. none.
This enumeration is of interest mainly as a statement of the present condition of our knowledge, but some of the features indicated probably will be confirmed or amplified by fuller data.
The new species described below have, with few exceptions, been collected by Professor Wickham.
42 ORTHOPTERA.
Amblycorypha (?)
perdita nsp.
(Locustidse).
Tegmen 30.5 mm.
long, 12 mm.
broad, the broadest part about 11 mm.
from the very broadly rounded and obtuse apex; costal region not enlarged, the subcostal nervure about equally distant from costa and stem of radius until 5 or 6 mm.
from base, where it is nearer costa than radius, and so continues; radius straight, the radial sector coming off at a rather wide angle near Amblycorypha (?)
perdita.
the middle of the tegmen; apical field irregularly reticulated throughout.
The lower margin of the tegmen can be distinctly followed to near the base, and there appears to be no anal lobe, but it seems exceedingly probable that this is illusory, the apparent margin near the base being the sharp line of demarcation found in the modern species, limiting the anal area above.
Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham).
I have wondered whether this could be Scudder's Orchelimum placidum, but it is certainly not an Orchelimum, and beyond a general similarity, there is nothing definite to indicate its identity with Scudder's species.
It is provisionally placed in Amblycorypha, to which it is presumably allied, and from which, without better preserved materials, it does not seem worth while to separate it.
Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn kindly examined my sketch of the venation, and reported that it was not quite like any modern genus; as he observed, if the anal area is truly absent, the tegmen is quite peculiar; but if it is present, the insect is not very remarkable.
Except for the shape of the tegmen, there is a rather close resemblance in structure to Pycnophlebia speciosa (Germar) from the lithographic stone of Solenhofen.
HEMIPTERA.
PSYLLITES n. gen. (Psyllida;).
The distinctive characters are in the venation, as follows: (1) The radius leaves the radial sector a little before the middle of the wing, and passes obliquely to the costa, where it ends, as in Psylla astigmata.
(2) The stem of the radius is in a straight line with the radial 1914.]
637 sector, which is nearly straight, with only a slight curvature, practically as in Psylla caudata.
(3) The mediocubital fork is some distance basad of the separation of the radius from its sector, as in Psylla.
(4) The separation of the radius from the radial sector is at practically the same level as the separation of the branches of the cubitus, the cell between the cubital branches being long, the arrangement herein practically as in Pachypsylla venusta.
The cell in the forks of the media is, however, as in Psylla.
Except for the shape of the cell in the forks of the cubitus, the insect could go in Psylla; herein it is less specialized than Psylla.
The outline of the wing, as figured, is only approximate.
Psyllites crawfordi n. sp.
Leng-th about 2 mm., anterior ^ving less than 1.5 mm.
; wdngs clear, ■without markings.
The following measurements are in microns: length of upper wing, about 1,440; radial fork to base of wing, about 690 ; radial fork to end of radial sector, about 752; medio-cubital fork to branching of cubitus, 224; medio-cubital fork to branching of media, 624 ; cell between Psyllites crawfordi, wing, cubital branches on wing-margin, 320; fork of media to level of radial and cubital forks, about 416; fork of media to nearest point on anterior branch of cubitus, 208.
Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham).
On the same piece of shale as the type of Heteromyiella miocenica and very close to it.
Dedicated to Mr. David L. Crawford, whose monograph of the Psyllidse of the New World has been of great use in the study of the fossil species.
HYMENOPTERA.
PAL^OTELEIA n. gen. (ScelionidiB).
Elongate, with the same form as Chromoteleia semicyanea Ashmead, except that the abdomen is broader, fully twice as broad at base, broadest about the end of the second segment, and with the apical 1 mm.
or more conspicuously narrower than the part before.
Antennae inserted very close to the middle (vertical) line of face, perhaps on a frontal prominence; scape apparently short; flagellum rather long and of uniform width, not at all moniliform.
Head broad.
eyes prominent.
Thorax long and narrow, the parts indistinct, but there is a cordiform metathoracie area or depression, and just in front of this a transverse series of little ridges or pleats, presumably on the postscutellum (compare Macroteleia) .
Hind femora unusually stout.
Wings with a very well developed submarginal vein, but no marginal at all; stigmal vein short but distinct, ending in a round knob; postmarginal vein long; a shadowy oblique vein going from the postmarginal toward the stigmal knob, as in Chromoteleia.
Palseoteleia oxyura n. sp.
Length nearly 7 mm.
; anterior wing nearly 4 mm., the stigmatal knob 2.25 from base.
Elongate, narrow, black, antennae and legs ferruginous; thorax narrow, about .75 mm.
in length anterior to wings; abdomen narrow and tapering, sessile, rather broad at base, its length a little over 4.5 mm., its width a very little over 1 mm.
; thorax same width as abdomen.
Wings ample, clear, faintly reddish, with a small ferruginous cloud in stigmatal region.
The following measurements are in microns: length of postmarginal vein, about 640; length of stigmal vein, including knob, 256, without knob, 192; diameter of flagellum, 128; width of hind femur, 352; length of hind tibia, about 1,120.
Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch {Wickham).
This is fully as specialized as the modern genera.
Polistes kirbyanus u. sp.
Osmia kirhyana Heer MS. Stout bodied, with rather short abdomen, the basal two segments of which are pallid and the other parts dark brown.
Wings ample, dusky.
Length of body 13 mm., of wings about 11 mm.
; first discoidal cell almost 5.5 mm.
long.
Most of the venation of the anterior wings can be made out, showing that it is nearly normal for Polistes, except that the first t.c, instead of being straight, has a double curve like the second.
The third s.m.
is much broader above than the second.
As in Polistes, the b.n.
goes basad of t.m.
; the second s.m.
receives both recurrent nervures (the cell is very broad, broader than in modern Polistes); the first discoidal cell is very oblique at end; the marginal cell has an elongated triangular form.
The great width of the second s.m.
and the long very oblique apical end of the first discoidal agree better with Monobia (M. quadridens L., Rito de los Friioles, New Mexico, W. W. Rohhins; det.
Rohwer) than with Polistes.
On the other hand, the third s.m.
agrees with Polistes, not with Monobia.
Miocene of Wangen, Baden; described from Heer's type specimen in the University Museum at Zurich.
Heer named a PoUstes primitiva from CEningcn (Wangen), but as no description appeared, it cannot be recognized.
It may be useful to add that Heer's Vespa atavina from Moudon is not the same species as his much earlier Vespa attavina from Parschlug; Handlirsch treats them as identical, spelling the name atavina.
Odynerus percontusus nsp.
Leng-th about 8 mm.
; black, including legs; wings hyaline, the nervures pallid, darker basally; length of anterior wing about 5 mm., reaching at least to end of third abdominal segment; head and thorax strongly but irregularly punctured; abdomen very broad at base, second segment large, about 1.65 mm.
long and 2.40 broad; apex of stigma broad and obtuse, only moderately oblique; end of marginal cell squarely (not obliquely) truncate; second s.m.
not narrowed to a point above.
The following measurements are in microns : basal nervure on first discoidal, 1,472; first submarginal (s.m.)
on first discoidal, 928; first s.m.
on marginal, 528; second s.m.
on marginal, 128; third s.m.
on marginal, 368; width of truncate end of marginal, about 128; second s.m.
on first cUscoidal, 192; distance between ends of recurrent nervures on second s.m., 272; end of second r.n.
to lower end of second t.c, 80; lower side of third s.m., 448, The general structure is essentially as in the living 0. tuberculocephahis Sauss.
(Boulder, Colo., W. P. Cockerell; det.
Rohwer); but the abdomen is more as in 0. capra Sauss.
(Colorado Springs, Colo., T. and W. Cockerell, at flowers of Rihes aureum; det.
Rohwer).
The measurements readily distinguish this from the other species fossil at Florissant.
Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham).
Odynerus wilmattae n. sp.
(Eumenidae).
Black, apparently with light bands on abdomen; length of head and thorax 3 mm., of abdomen about 4.5 mm.
in bent position, but would be about 6.5 straightened out, of anterior wings 4.5 mm.
; first abdominal segment rather small, in lateral profile only about 1 mm.
deep, whereas the abdomen in middle is fully 2 mm.
; wings dusky reddish, venation ordinary, marginal cell very narrowly obliquely truncate at end; third t.c.
arched inward; second s.m.
greatly narrowed above, receiving first r.n.
a little before middle and second very near end (very much nearer end than in the living 0. tuherculiceps, 0. capra and 0. parietum); second r.n.
at right angles to lower side of third s.m.
The following measurements are in microns: second s.m.
on marginal cell, 64; third s.m.
on marginal, 256; lower side of marginal beyond third s.m., 384; lower side of third s.m., 384; end of first r.n.
to end of second, 176.
Station 14, Miocene shales of Florissant {Wilmatte P. Cockerell).
Very easily known from other fossil (as well as living) species by the remarkably short wings.
It has also been examined by Mr. S. A. Rohwer, who cannot find any reason for regarding it as a distinct genus, notwithstanding its peculiar appearance.
The anterior wings reach only a little beyond end of second abdominal segment.
The wings, as preserved, are not longitudinally folded.
Palseovespa wilsoni n. sp.
(Vespidse).
9 .
Length about 15 mm., anterior wing about or hardly 9 mm., first discoidal cell 4 mm.
; robust, head and thorax black, abdomen paler, probably yellow in life, as also the legs; wings clear, veins nearly colorless (costo-apical region lost) ; first discoidal cell slightly oblique at end; second recurrent nervure ending more than twice as far from first as from end of second s.m.
The following measurements are in microns: basal nervure on first discoidal cell, 2,550; first discoidal on first submarginal cell, 1,760; first discoidal on second submarginal, 144; third discoidal on second submarginal, 480; lower side of second s.m.
beyond third discoidal; 192; lower side of third discoidal 1,840; lower side of third submarginal, 640; third discoidal on second discoidal, 512; outer side of second discoidal below third discoidal, 288.
Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham).
Named after the owner of the ranch where the fossils were collected, who did everything in his power to aid the work.
Nearest to P. gillettei Ckll., but differing in the venation too much to be regarded as a variation.
^ndrena percontusa n. sp.
(Andrenidae).
9 .
Length 12 mm., anterior wing about 8 mm.
; head and thorax black, abdomen pale; antennae ferruginous; wings clear, venation ferruginous; basal nervure falling short of the very oblique transversomedial; stigma large; first r.n.
joining second s.m.
near end.
The following measurements are in microns : depth of stigma, 320 ; first s.m.
on basal nervure, 368; lower side of first s.m., 1,040; second s.m.
on first discoidal cell, 480; second s.m.
on third discoidal, 64; lower side of third s.m., about 800; distance between lower end of b.n.
and upper end of t.m., 64.
Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham).
Apparently a quite typical Andrena.
It is easily known from A. grandipes Ckll.
and A. hypoUtha Ckll.
by the venation.
The venation is like that of A. sepidta Ckll.
and A. clavula Ckll., but these are much smaller species, and clavida is also separated by the form of the abdomen.
Cladius petrinus usp.
(Tenthredinidse).
9.
Length 7.5 mm., robust; antennae 3.65 mm.
long, simple, rather slender; width of head 1.85 mm.
; head and posterior half of thorax apparently black, rest of thorax and abdomen probably reddish in life; wings clear, with very pale nervures; 4.25 mm.
from base of wing to middle of stigma.
The end of the best wing is lost, so that it is impossible to determine from it whether the marginal cell has a cross-vein.
The other wing is over the body and it is hard to see the details, but the marginal nervure is sufficiently plain, and I am confident that there is no cross-nervure.
This accords with Cladius, with which the rest of the wing closely agrees.
The insect runs in Rohwer's table {Bidl.
Amer.
Mus.
N.
Hist., XXIV, p. 521) to 20, and runs out on account of the character of the lanceolate cell.
If it had a marginal cross-nervure, it would run to Hemichroa eophila Ckll., which is larger and otherwise dilTerent.
There is no particular resemblance to any more recently described species.
Compared with MacGillivray's figure of Cladius pectinicornis, the anterior wing differs as follows: first s.m.
longer; second t.c.
bowed inward; t.m.
much beyond middle of second part of lanceolate cell ; end of second r.n.
only a very short distance beyond second t.c.
It agrees in the sides of the first discoidal cell being not at all parallel, the long and narrow second discoidal, the very short upper side of first discoidal, etc.
The separation of the two parts of the lanceolate cell by a single (coalesced) nervure is very short indeed, only 128 microns.
The following measurements are in microns: length of first submarginal cell (s.m.
), 240; second s.m.
on marginal, 928; first discoidal on first s.m., 288 (the thickness of the nervures explains the difference from the inside measurement of first s.m.
); second s.m.
on first discoidal, 432; second s.m.
on third discoidal (not allowing for the strong curve), 1,040; third s.m.
on third discoidal, 96; third s.m.
from second r.n.
to end (apparently, from the obscurely preserved wing), 656; first discoidal on basal nervure, 1,200; lower end of basal nervurs to upper end of the very oblique t.m., 640; first discoidal on second discoidal, 704; first discoidal on third discoidal, 368; length of t.m., 480; submedian cell on second part (beyond the interruption) of lanceolate cell, 1,280; second discoidal on lanceolate (anal) cell, 768; lower side of second discoidal beyond lanceolate cell, 400.
Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham).
Eriocampa Celata n. sp.
(Tenthredinidae).
Length 8 mm., abdomen 4, anterior wing 6 mm.
; ferruginous, with the head, posterior half of thorax and apex of abdomen apparently black; legs ferruginous; anterior wings reddish hyaline, nervures pallid; antennae ordinary, not clavate, width at about 1,600 microns from base 208 microns; insect, as preserved, so like Cladius petrinus that I assumed it to be the same until I examined the venation.
The venation appears to agree well with Eriocampa.
In Rohwer's table the insect does not agree with Eriocampa because the first r.n.
is not parallel with the b.n., the upper end of the r.n.
being about 208 microns too far apicad; but nearly the same thing is true of E. ovata, as figured by MacGillivray {Nortonella has the same feature, but is otherwise quite different).
Characteristic features of E. celata are the oblique, gently arched cross-vein of marginal cell, which joins the stigma 208 microns below the costa; the produced lower apical corner of first s.m.
; the two sides of first discoidal cell (on basal and recurrent nervures) nearly equal; the second s.m.
receiving only one r.n.
; the very narrow (112 microns) top of first discoidal cell.
The lanceolate cell is contracted, but not closed; the cross-nervure, which ought to be present, is obliterated, but I think I can see the stump of the upper end (this, however, is not positive).
The following measurements are in microns: first s.m.
on marginal, 288 ; second s.m.
on marginal (not allowing for curve) , 800 ; end of second t.c.
to lower end of marginal cross-vein, 608; lower end of marginal cross-vein to upper end of third t.c, 368; first s.m.
diagonally, 448; first discoidal on first s.m., 480; first discoidal on second s.m., 416; basal on first discoidal, 832; first discoidal on third, 800; lower end of b.n.
to upper end of t.m., 288 on one side, but 208 on opposite wing; upper end of t.m.
to lower end of first r.n., 512.
Known from the Florissant species of Eriocampa by the colors and the venation — • e.g., from E. synthetica, pristina and wheeler i by the measurements of the first discoidal cell ; from scudderi and bruesi by the comparative measurements of the first two submarginals.
Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch {Wickham).
DIPTERA.
Protolomatia antiqua Cockerell (Bombyliidae).
The reverse of the type has been found antl shows some of the details of the venation better than the original specimen.
It shows, in particular, that the upper basal corner of second submarginal cell has a short accessory nervure pointing directly basad; consequently, in my table in Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., XXXIII, p. 233, the genus runs straight to Alepidophora.
The insect is, however, very distinct from Alepidophora pealei in a variety of ways, such as the more widely open first posterior cell, the quite different shape of the second posterior, and the shape of the end of the marginal cell.
The end of the marginal cell in A. pealei is like that of Paracosmus morrisoni, whereas in P. antiqua it is as in Paracosmus insolens.
In the original account of A. pealei, it appears that the prsefurca is practically obsolete, but a new study of the type shows that this is an error of interpretation, owing to the condition of preservation; the prsefurca is actually 880 microns long in A. pealei, while the first basal cell on the first submarginal is 2,240 microns.
In the reverse of P. antiqua the abdomen appears reddish, conspicuously lighter than the thorax; it is not banded like that of A. pealei.
A new and much more complete set of measurements (in microns) of P. antiqua is offered.
Length of prsefurca, 592; width (depth) of marginal cell near end, 480; first submarginal on wing margin (not allowing for curve), 850; squared basal end of second submarginal, 272; second submarginal on first posterior, 1,184; first basal on first submarginal, 1,472; first posterior on first submarginal, 1,280; length of anterior cross-vein, 288; discal cell on first basal, 1,360; discal on first posterior, 608; width (depth) of discal cell at level of anterior cross-vein, 304; discal cell on second basal, 224; first posterior on wing-margin, 304; second posterior on discal, 280; second posterior on wing-margin, 800; second posterior on third, 992; third posterior on wing-margin, 720; fourth posterior on second basal, 128; greatest width of anal cell, 352; anal on wing-margin, 400.
Geron C?)
platysoma n. sp.
(Bombyliidae).
Length about 10.5 mm.
; thorax about 3 mm., the dorsum in lateral profile flat for about 2 mm.
; length of wing, 7.5 mm.
; abdomen with dorsal region alternately banded dark and light, the dark twice as broad as the light (as Becker figures for Heterotropus glaucus).
Wings clear, with light ferruginous nervures; venation as in Geron gibhosus, with anal cell closed well before wing-margin, but the discal cell is produced apically above and the anterior cross-vein is oblique; all the venational characters agree exactly with a Geron from Colorado.
The following measurements are in microns: first submarginal cell on wing margin, 608; length of prsefurca, 400; first submarginal cell on first posterior, 1,664; first submarginal on first basal, 1,456; second submarginal on first posterior, about 1,920; first basal on discal, 1,184; first posterior on discal, 960; lower side of discal cell (on third posterior), 1,392; discal on second basal, 192; third posterior on second basal, 288.
Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch {Wickham).
The venation absolutely agrees with that of certain species of Geron, but the long, flattened thorax (perhaps partly distorted by pressure?)
is very unlike that genus.
The antennEe and proboscis cannot be made out.
I suppose that the ancestors of Geron got the venation of the modern flies before they got the abbreviated form and humped thorax.
The fossil should probably constitute a distinct genus, but it may provisionally remain in Geron, pending the discovery of better preserved material, Heteromyiella miocenica n. sp.
(Helomyzidas).
Length 5 mm., wing 4.5 mm.
; head, thorax and legs black; abdomen reddish, with scattered coarse bristles; wings reddish hyaline, without markings.
Oral vibrissse very large; anterior (or middle?)
tibia with straight spu-r and curved preapical — _ ^ ^ bristle.
Venation normal; costa with many -^^^'^ "~~ very short black bristles (practically as in '■--;,„^)^>' !
;^^ Heteromyiella senilis = Heteromyza senilis Scudder), but no long ones; auxiliary vein ^Teierog^yZJa^mjocenim.
distinct, complete and separate; anterior cross-vein below end of first vein; first posterior cell broadened in middle, the third vein distinctlj^ arched upward (as in Helomyza limhata); second basal cell minute but distinct, anal cell also distinct.
The following measurements are in microns: humeral cross-vein to end of first vein, 1,520; end of auxiliary vein to end of first vein, 400 ; second vein from point below end of first vein to wing-margin, 1,920; submarginal cell on wing margin (not allowing for curve), 592; submarginal cell on first posterior, 2,080; width of first posterior cell at level of end of discal, 448; first posterior on discal, 800; first posterior on second posterior, 1,120; discal cell on second posterior, 544; second posterior on third posterior, 320; first basal on discal, 1,250; second basal on discal, 112; anal on third posterior, 208.
Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham).
It is rather remarkable that the Heteromyiella type, with only short bristles on the costa, should apparently (as shown by fossils from two or three localities) have been prevalent in North America in Tertiary times, whereas in the modern fauna it has given way to the genera with long as well as short bristles.
Empis miocenica nsp.
(Empididae).
Length 5.5 mm., -vving a little over 5.5, middle leg about 5; head about 1 mm.
long, beak evident, but its length cannot be ascertained.
Whole insect, as preserved, light ferruginous, the abdomen with dusky bands; wings reddish, ^vith a very dilute stigmatal cloud.
Only the upper part of the wing shows the venation clearly, but this appears to be quite normal for the genus.
The following measurements are in microns : end of first vein from base of Aving, about 3,440; end of first vein to second (vertically) at same level, 144; end of first vein to end of second, about 1,600; separation of second and third veins from base of wing, about 1,120; the two branches of third vein are about equally long (1,120), the upper branch almost straight, with a very faint downward curve.
The auxiliary vein can be seen very close to the first, but extremely weak and not reaching costa.
The hind femora are large and stout, ■udth a row of short, stiff, black spiniform bristles on the lower side.
The anterior legs are lost.
Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham).
Considerably larger and more robust than E. florissantana, with the head much smaller in proportion to the thorax.
Empis florissantana nsp.
(Empididse).
9 .
Length about 4.50 mm.
; wings 3.25, hyahne, except for a brown stigmatic cloud; middle legs about 4 mm.
Face not hairy; head in lateral profile broad-oval; proboscis stout and stiff, much longer than head; thoracic dorsum dark; venation ordinary; hind femur reaching end of fifth abdominal segment.
The following measurements are in microns: length of head, about 640; leng-th of proboscis, about 1,040; anterior femur, about 1,040, its tibia about the same ; end of second vein to end of anterior branch of third, 272; length of anterior branch of third, 320; length of 646 [Dec, posterior or inferior branch of third, 672 ; apical width of first posterior cell, about 336; apical width of second posterior, about 320.
Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham).
This appears to be a quite ordinary species of Emyis.
These are the first Empididse to be described from Florissant.
Empis florissantana.
Costo-apical region of wing.
Empis florissantana.
Discal cell and adjacent parts.
Plecia axeliana n. sp.
(Bibionidae).
9.
Length about 8.
.5 mm., wing 9 mm.
; thorax black with the mesothorax apparently red; abdomen banded dark and light, the light bands wider than the dark; wings reddish hyaline, suffusedly darker in costal region; head small, about 1.25 mm.
diameter; venation normal.
The following measurements are in microns: depth of marginal cell at level of anterior cross-vein, 480; depth of submarginal cell at level of end of second vein (so-called anterior branch of third), 480; distance from end of second vein to end of third, about 1,760; distance in a straight line from base of marginal cell to separation of second vein from third, 2,880; length of the rather oblique anterior cross-vein, 272; lower end of anterior cross-vein to fork of fourth, 752.
Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham).
Much larger than P. melanderi Ckll.
(d^), with the abdomen quite differently marked; but in view of the sexual dimorphism in this family, it may be the female of melanderi.
I have given it a name derived from Professor Melander's given name, to serve as an indication of this probability.
It seems inadvisable to assume identity, as it is improl^able that it can be proved, and since the insects appear different, it is desirable to know which is referred to in any particular citation.
When describing P. melanderi I remarked on the lengthening of the stem of the fourth vein, between the anterior cross-vein and the fork.
In P. plagiata Wied.
(det.
Knab) from Quirigua, Guatemala (W. P. Cockereir),it is exactly as long (752 microns) as in P. axeliana.
P. plagiata, however, differs radically from P. axeliana and melanderi in having the second vein (or upper branch of third) directed vertically upward, so that it looks like a cross-vein.
Bibio wickhami n. sp.
(Bibionidse).
9 .
Length about 12 mm.
; wing 6.75 ; proboscis 2 mm.
; hind femur 3 mm.
; second posterior cell slightly over 2.5 mm.
long.
Head, thorax and legs black; abdomen dark brown, the sutures colorless; wings clear, the costal region slightly brownish, veins pale reddish.
The stem of third vein, before the cross-vein (following the usual interpretation) , is 576 microns long, while the cross-vein is only about 80.
The cross-vein leaves the fourth at a slight angle, and is in a straight line with the part of the third (2 + 3) beyond it, the third being abruptly bent at the cross-vein.
This is nearly as in the living Bibio alhipennis, but is very different from the Florissant fossil B. atavus, in which the stem of fourth before the cross-vein is only about 320 microns, while the oblique cross-vein is about 1,040, being almost as long as the stem of fourth vein between the cross-vein and the fork (basal corner of second posterior cell).
Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham).
Mycomya lithomendax n. sp.
(Mycetophilidse).
Length nearly 5.5 mm., abdomen 4, wing 4 mm.
; anterior tibia about 1.5 mm., its tarsus 2.5; microscopical measurements give the following in microns: anterior tibia, 1,392; its basitarsus, 1,120; length of antennse, 1,920.
Dorsum of thorax and abdomen dark brown, the abdominal sutures rather broadly pallid; tibiae and tarsi brown, femora pallid; hind femora with a row of short black bristles on under side; wings redcUsh hyaline, without markings.
The thorax (seen in lateral profile) is much more elevated or humped than in M. cockerelli Joh.
The venation nearly agrees with that of M. cockerelli, but differs in some small details.
The subcosta (I follow Johannsen's nomenclature) ends on the costa as usual, its upwardly directed end, beyond the cross-vein, is 128 (all measurements in microns) long; the cross-vein to radius is 192 beyond base of the small cell Ri, and is about the middle of that cell, which is quite long, as in M. ohliqua (Say).
The apical end of cell R has its upper face (above separation of lower branch of radius from radiomedial cross-vein) 128 microns long, and the lower face (radio-medial cross-vein) 192 and more oblique; this is almost as in M. maxima Joh.
Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham).
Larger than the fossil M. cockerelli, and differing in coloration, details of the venation, and the proportions of the legs.
It appears to be very close to the living M. mendax Joh., a species of the Pacific coast region.
Asilus wickhami n. sp.
(Asilidse).
Length 18.5 mm., of which 13.25 is abdomen; wings about 11 mm.
; middle femora 3 mm., hind femora 4.
Antennae normal; the head and thorax were apparently black, the abdomen paler, somewhat darker dorsally than ventrally; legs without conspicuous bristles, tarsi thick;, wings clear, nervures ferruginous.
Bristles on the legs can be seen with the compound microscope, but they are pale or reddish, not black as in most species, and so are easily overlooked.
As in A. peritulus Ckll., the veins at the end of the second basal and fourth posterior cells form a cross; but in some other respects the venation differs from that of A. peritulus as follows: (1) Marginal cell not so narrow at end.
(2) Sides of second submarginal beyond base parallel until near apex, when they gradually diverge; in A. peritulus the sides have a gentle double curve.
(3) Second posterior cell broader at base.
(4) Anterior cross-vein about middle of discal cell ; i.e.
, 1 ,440 microns from base and 1,330 from apex.
Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham), The following annual reports were referred to the Publication Committee : REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
1914.
Ten meetings have been held during the year with an average attendance of thirty.
Thirty-three papers have been presented for publication, as follows: E. G. Vanatta, 4; Henry A. Pilsbry and Amos Brown, 3; Henry W. Fowler, 2; N. E. Mclndoo, 2; Howard Crawley, 2; Henry Fox, 1; F. J. Keeley, 1; John H. Lowell, 1; Edward P. Poulton, 1; Witmer Stone, 1; H. Newell Wardle, 1; Henry A. Pilsbry, 1; Charles S. Boyer, 1; Albert M. Reese, 1; Roy Chapman Andrews, 1; Harold Heath, 1; Phil and Nellie Rau, 1; D. N. Barringer, 1; Burnett Smith, 1 ; Stanislas Meunier, 1 ; Joseph C. Thompson, 1 ; Charles P. Alexander, 1; Nathan Banks,' 1; T. D. A. Cockerell, 1; James Chester Bradley et ah, 1.
Five of these communications were returned to the authors and two await publication.
The others have all appeared in the Proceedings.
Of the Proceedings 794 pages and 41 plates have been published.
413 pages, illustrated by 16 plates, have appeared of the Transactions of the American Entomological Society (Entomological Section of the Academy).
The Section has also issued 480 pages and 18 plates of the Entomological News.
357 pages and 36 plates have been added to the Manual of Conchology by Dr. Pilsbry.
This is an increase of 480 pages and 17 plates over the total output for last year.
Seven members and eleven correspondents have been elected.
The deaths of fifteen members and five correspondents have been announced.
Resignations of membership have been accepted from William W. Keen, M.D., Edward Anthony Spitzka, M.D., and C. Hartman Kuhn.
Four members were dropped for non-payment of dues.
A final report of the Centenary Celebration was read at the meeting of December 2, 1913.
A resolution expressive of the Academy's appreciation of the work of the Committee having charge of the celebration was adopted and duly recorded in the published Proceedings.
George Vaux, Jr., was reappointed by the Council the Sohcitor of the Academy; Frank J. Keeley was also reappointed Curator of the William S, Vaux Collections, and Joseph Wilcox Custodian of the Isaac Lea Collections.
By authority of the Council, the securities of the Academy have been transferred from the Trust Company of North America to the Girard Trust Co.
The manuscript history of the Academy, prepared by the Recording Secretary in connection with the Centenary proceedings and accepted for publication in 1912, has been for some time ready for the printer, but awaits the necessary appropriation for its issue in proper form with desirable illustrations.
The requisite amount is beheved to be $1800 for an edition of, say, 500 copies.
The Hayden Memorial medal was presented to Dr. Henry Fairfield Osborn for his distinguished work in palseontology at a special meeting held November 24.
The presentation address was made by the President and responded to by the recipient of the award.
The lectures delivered to the pupils of the Girls' High School, referred to in the last report, were continued with gratifying results until April 15.
During the current season so far two lectures of a similar course have been delivered by Dr. Skinner, two by Dr. Pilsbry, and one by Dr. Moore.
The regular course to the public was delivered on Monday evenings from January 5 to April 27 as follows: Three by Dr. Witmer Stone, on local bird life; one by Dr. B. Franklin Royer, on plagues, their transmission and prevention; one by F. Herbert Snow, on dangers of bad water; three by Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, on the scientific explorers of America; three by Dr. Henry Skinner, on entomology; three by Dr. Spencer Trotter, on anthropology; three by Dr. Witmer Stone, on local wild flowers, substituting for Mr. Stewardson Brown, who was unable because of illness to deliver his appointed course.
The Delaware Valley Naturalists' Union, the Pennsylvania Library Club, the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, the Philadelphia Botanical Club and the Philadelphia County Medical Society have held meetings in the Academy.
Edward J. Nolan, Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
In the foreign relations of the Academy during the past year the most noteworthy circumstance was the marked decrease in the volume of incoming correspondence as a result of the diminished activities of European scientific institutions since the out))reak of the war.
Correspondents reported deceased during the year were Albert Guenther, Carl Chun, Edward Suess, Frederick W. True, Theodore Gill, August Weismann and Charles Sedgwick Minot.
Those elected were Edgar A. Mearns, Frank M. Chapman, Charles W. Richmond, Edmund Heller, Gerrit S. Miller, Nathaniel Charles Rothschild, Marie Curie, Charles T. Ramsden, Shibasaburo Kitasato, Frank Dawson Adams and Alfred Werner.
While a large number of scientific congresses in which the Academy was invited to take part had been scheduled for the year, all of those of an international character were either abandoned or postponed.
In those cases in which the Academy was asked to express an opinion upon the advisability of so doing, our vote was cast in favor of postponement, as conditions in Europe seemed likely to preclude the attendance of a representative body of foreign delegates.
In cases where delegates had been already appointed they were requested to allow their names to stand as the representatives of the Academy until the postponed meetings shall have convened.
At the Atlanta meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science held in the early part of the fiscal year.
Dr. Henry Skinner and Dr. Philip P. Calvert were the Academy's delegates.
Dr. John Mason Clarke served as a delegate to the exercises inaugurating John Huston Finley as President of the University of the State of New York, and Professor J. G. Hidalgo was appointed to a like position in connection with 150th anniversary of the National Academy of Sciences and Arts of Barcelona.
As usual, a considerable number of requests for information were replied to by the Corresponding Secretary or referred to other members of the Academy staff.
Statistics of the correspondence follow: Communications received: Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications 154 Transmitting publications to the Academy 67 Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 6 Invitations to learned gatherings, celebrations, etc L5 Notices of deaths of scientific men 16 Circulars concerning the administration of scientific and educational institutions, etc 21 Photographs and biographies of correspondents 11 Letters from coiTespond^nts IS Miscellaneous letters 90 Total received 398 43 Communications forwarded: Acknowledging gifts to the library 1,308 Requesting the supply of deficiencies 134 Acknowledging gifts to the Museum 73 Acknowledging photographs and biographies 6 Letters of sympathy or congratulation, addresses, etc 10 Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates' credentials 23 Miscellaneous letters 152 Annual reports and circulars sent to correspondents 257 Total forwarded 1,963 Respectfully submitted, J. Percy Moore, Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
1914.
The additions to the library since the last annual report amount to 8,325.
Of these 7,244 were pamphlets and continuations of periodicals, 929 volumes and 152 maps.
They were received from the following sources: Exchanges I. V. Williamson Fund General Appropriation United States Department of Agriculture Pennsylvania State Library Authors Editors • J.
A. Meigs Fund United States Bureau of Education Connecticut State Library Nebraska State Board of Agriculture Imperial Department of Agriculture, British West Indies T. B. Wilson Fund New York Agricultural Experiment Station Pennsylvania Department of Health..... Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning University of Nebraska United States Department of the Interior Pan-American Union Intcirnational Institute of Agriculture ,727 ,938 American Iron and Steel Institute 11 827 Government of India 11 5911 Estacion Sismologic'a de Cartuja q 324 157 United States Department of Commerce and Labor s 121 111 48 44 Edward J. Nolan Henry Skinner Publication Committee of the Academy Argentine Government 8 8 7 7 31 28 23 Michigan Fish Commission Thoreau Museum of Natural History Government of Costa Rica Lowell Observatory Caleb J. Milne, Jr University of Tennessee ... 7 6 6 6 6 6 21 20 Trustees of the British Museum.. Commission of Conservation, Canada Topographic and Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 6 5 5 15 15 Mi(-higan Geological and Biological Survev 5 13 New Mexico College of Agri■ culture 4 12 11 Geological Survey of India Department of Trade and Customs, Australia 4 4 1914.]
653 Geological Survej' of New Jersey United States War Department.. Danish Government University of Wyoming New York State Board of Charities lUinois State Geological Sm-vey.. Geological Sm-vey of Alabama.... Albei't I., Prince de Monaco French Government Missouri Bm-eau of Geology and Mines Rockefeller Sanitary Commission Station Seismique de Ire Calsse d'Irkoutsk K. Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Charles Hedley J. G. Whiteman Witmer Stone Washington Geological Sm-vey... Iowa Geological Sm-vey Family of Dr. Constantine Hering United States Brewers' Association Geological Survey of Victoria Det Kgl.
Frederiks Universitet... Chester County Historical Society Illinois Bm-eau of Labor Statistics Pennsylvania Forestry Association Commission Polaire International 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 Government of Formosa Delaware Valley Ornithological Club Joseph Willcox John M. Clarke Cuerpo de Ingenieros del Minas de Peru Pennsylvania Society Ontario Department of Agriculture Delaware County Institute of Science Louisiana State Museum Hawaii Agricultural Experiment Station Geological Survey of Georgia Seismological Station ler Ordnung, Ekaterinburg Mrs. S. L. Oberholtzer , John C. Branner Department of Fisheries, Bengal, Bihar and Orissa Henry A. Pilsbry North Dakota Agricultural Experiment Station James A. G. Rehn Rice Institute of Liberal and Technical Training Wisconsin Geological and Natural History Survey J. G. Vail Trustees of Amherst College George F. Kunz National Academy of Sciences.
.
.
.
Pennsylvania Water Suppty Commission These additions were distributed to tlie departments of the Library as follows: Journals 5,748 Agriculture 1,062 Geology 411 Botany 222 Geography 146 General Natural Historj^ 108 99 95 70 59 44 40 28 Entomology., Anatomy and Physiology.
Voyages and Travels Ornithology Anthropology Encyclopedias Conchology Mammalogy Physical Sciences.
Ichthyology Mineralogy Helminthology Bibliography Chemistry Mathematics Herpetology Medicine Philology Miscellaneous 27 20 17 17 14 13 12 12 8 8 1 44 Among the more important general works secured by purchase are : Falck, Mycologische Untersuchungen und Berichte, Heft 1.
Keibel, Normentafeln z. Entwicklungsgeschichte d. Wirbelthierein, 1911.
Krusenstern, Reise um die Welt, 1803-1806.
Linne, Genera Plantarum, Ed.
5, 1754.
Valmont de Bomake, Dictionnaire Raisonnee Universel d'Histoire Naturelle, Editions of 1768, 1768-69, 1776, and 1791.
Willkomm et Lange, Prodromus Florae Hispanicse, 1861-1893.
The following additions have been made to the collection of Journals and Periodicals: Academie des Sciences, Paris, Proces-Verbaux, I-IV.
American Breeders' Association, Reports, I, III, IV, VI-VIII.
American Breeders' Magazine, I-IV.
American Jom-nal of Botany, I, 1.
Archivio de Anatomia e de Antropologia, Nos.
1-2.
Art and Archaeology, I, 1.
Australian Zoologist, I, 1.
Beitrage zur Krystallographie und Mineralogie, I, 1, 2.
Bios.
Rivista di Biologia Sperimentale e Generale, I-II, 1.
Brooklyn Botanical Garden, Bulletin; Circular; Contributions, I-III.
Bulletin des Neuesten und Wissenswiirdigsten aus der Naturwissenschaft, I-XV.
Canada Department of the Interior, Bulletin of Forestry Branch, 1912, 1913.
Connecticut State Board of Agriculture, Annual Reports, 1866, 1869, 1871, 1906, 1909, 1912.
Conseil Permanent International pour I'Exploration de la Mer.
Rapports et Proces-Verbaux, I-XX.
Contributions a la Faune des Indes Neerlandaises, I, 1.
Copeia, Nos.
1-10.
Department of Agriculture, Trinidad, Circulars, Nos.
1-7, 10-16.
Department of Colonization, Mines and Fisheries, Quebec, Report on Mining Operations, 1910, 1911, 1912.
Preliminary Statement on Mineral Production, 1913.
Durban Museum, Annals, I, 1.
Gardens (The) Bulletin, Singapore, I, 6, 7.
Geographisches Jahrbuch, I-XXXVI.
Hastings and East Sussex Naturahst, I, 4, 5, 6; II, 1, 2, 3.
Hastings and St. Leonards Natural History Society, Reports, 1910-1913.
Internationale Zeitschrift f. physikalisch-chemische Biologie, I.
Journal of Heredity, V. K. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Institut.
Ergebnisse aerologischer Beobachtungen.
No.
1.
Meddelelser om Danmarks Antropologi, I, II, 1.
Mueller Botanic Society, Journal and Proceedings, I, 7-11.
Museo Nacional de Arqueologia, Historia y Etnologia, Auales, I, 13; III, 3, 6, 7, 8; IV; V, 1, 3.
Museum des Neuesten und Wissenswiirdigsten aus dem Gebiete der Naturwissenschaft, I-XV.
Natural History and Science Society of Western Australia, Journal, III, 1, 2; lY.
Naturwissenschaftliches Museum der Stadt Crefeld, Mitteilungen, 1909, 1910, 1913.
Nebraska Academy of Sciences, Publications, I-VIII.
Nebraska State Board of Agriculture, Transactions, 1879-1891, 1893-1913.
Petrographical Institute "Lithoga>a, " Publications, III, IV.
Seismological Society of America, Bulletin, I-III, IV, 1, 2, 3.
Seismis(;he Station ler Ordnung, Ekaterinburg, Wck'hentliches Bulletin, I. Sociedade Portuguesa de Sciencias Naturals, Meniorias, I. Societa di Etnografia Kaliana, Lares Bolletin, I, II, 1, 2, 3.
Soci6te Zoologique de Geneve, Bulletin, I, II, 1, 2, 3.
Universite de Jassy, Annales Scientifiques, VIII, 1, 2.
University of Michigan, Occasional Papers of tlie Museum of Zoology, I, 1-4.
University of Minnesota, Contributions from Department of Anatomy, I, II.
Victoria Memorial Museum, Bulletin, I. Webbia, Raccolta di Scritti Botanici, I-III, IV, 1.
West Australian Natural History Society, Journal, 1-6.
Zeitsclirift f. ansowaudte Entoniologic, I, 1, 2.
Zeitschrift f. Oologie, I-XV.
Zeitschrift f. \iilkanoloo;ie, I, 1, 2.
Zoolofiiska Bidrag fnm Uppsala, I, II.
The decrease in the number of accessions as compared to the groAvth of last year is partly owing to a curtaihnent of appropriations and partly to the interference of the war with the publication and transmission of foreign periodicals.
The issue of German journals, at first interrupted, has now been resumed, and they, just at present, are being received with tolerable regularity.
Scarcely anything, except the Comptes Rendus of the Academy of Sciences and the Society of Biology reaches us from France, and these curtailed in size.
Needless to say, nothing has come from Belgium since the invasion.
The fine annual package from the Catholic University of Louvain will probably never be received again.
The amount at the disposal of the Library Committee has permitted of the binding of only 218 volumes.
The Card Catalogue is being thoroughly revised by Mr. Fox and information secured regarding incomplete sets, many of which, it is found, are in their present condition because of the death of the authors or the discontinuance of publication.
A proposition to amend the By-Laws so as to permit of the loaning of books from the Library, on which adverse action had been taken last year, was again referred to the Council and will probably be reported on favorably.
Final action on this and other propositions will not be taken by the Academy until the third Tuesday in January.
They will be more particularly dealt with in next year's report.
The Librarian was granted leave of absence to attend the International Exposition of Book Industries and the Graphic Arts in Leipzig and subsequently the meeting of the British Library Association at Oxford.
On the breaking out of the war all idea of reaching Leipzig had to.
be abandoned and news of the postponement of the Oxford meeting soon followed.
In the intermediate tin).e between the first mobilization of troops and the beginning of actual fighting the journey from Milan to London was made with no disaster and the minimum of inconvenience.
Earlier and later efforts to make the passage were much more serious matters.
During the Librarian's absence the routine business of the library was carried on with characteristic efficiency by his assistants, William J.
Fox and Furman S. Wilde, to whom he is glad to again make deserved acknowledgment.
Edward J. Nolan, Librarian.
IV.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The year just completed has been marked b}^ important progress in the arrangement and study of the collections and by the accession of much valuable material.
The Museum has been visited by a large number of persons and there has been a constant increase in the schools and classes which have come, under the guidance of teachers, to study the collections.
Classes in sketching from the School of Industrial Art have made use of» the Museum every week during the winter months, and students from the natural history department of the Girls' High School have studied the collections regularly throughout the school year.
The Department of Health of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has continued to occupy the quarters in the building allotted to it by the Academy some years ago.
The movement of the centre of the city westward has been distinctly noticeable in the increased number of visitors to the Museum, and the completion of the Parkway, which will pass the front of the Academy, will have a still greater influence in this direction.
In the builcUng, necessary repairs to the roof and heating plant have been made during the year.
The marble wainscoting in the entrance hall has been moved out and backed by brick to form a support for the larger Icthyosaurus fossils which have been mounted thereon, adding greatly to the appearance of the hall.
A number of large palms in tubs, gift of Mrs. Curwin Stoddart, Jr., have been placed in the entrance halls and the mineralogical room.
Seven plate-glass exhibition cases have been purchased during the year, three for the mammal and four for the archaeological hall, while plate-glass frames have been provided for covering the large fossils in the entrance hall.
Twenty-six metsfcl-covered storage cases have been purchased for the study series of mammals and shells, as well as 102 insect boxes and 450 trays.
Mr. Clarence B. Moore conducted two explorations among the Indian burial mounds along the Tennessee River, adding some valuable material to the Clarence B. Moore Collection in the Archseological hall.
While the results were not so rich as heretofore in the matter of specimens, the information obtained is of the greatest importance.
Leave of absence was granted to several members of the Museum staff during the year for the purpose of conducting collecting expeditions in the field.
Dr. Henry Skinner spent the month of Februar}V in Cuba as the guest of Mr. Charles T. Ramsden and collected extensively for the Academy, receiving valuable assistance from Mr. Ramsden.
Dr. Witmer Stone spent two weeks in May collecting in central South Carolina, while Mr. Stewardson Brown made another trip to Bermuda.
Both secured valuable material.
Other members of the staff carried on considerable local field work, which yielded valuable results.
Details of museum work and important accessions in the various departments follow.
Mammals.
For the exhibition series the taxidermist, Mr. David McCadden, has devoted considerable time to the mounting of a number of East African Antelopes, a Giraffe and an African Forest Pig, collected by Messrs. A. M. Collins and E. M. Scull.
A very fine Buffalo bull, obtained a few years ago from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, was also mounted for exhibition.
Some time was also devoted to the mounting of the skeleton of the large fin-back Whale obtained at Ocean City, N. J., in 1891.
This specimen has been erected in the north hall of the Museum and presents a very fine appearance.
Mr. McCadden was assisted in tnis work by Mr. Edw.
W. Stucke, whose services were secured for part of the year.
Seventeen mammals were received from the Zoological Society and have been variously prepared for mounting, skins, or osteological specimens.
Most important of these was a skeleton of the Indian Elephant.
The entire mammalian osteological collection has been assembled during the year in the mammal room on the fourth floor, where metal-covered cases have been provided for its reception.
As soon as the collection is thoroughly rearranged it is thought that it will offer as good facilities for the study of mammalian osteology as can be found in any museum in America.
Mr. Childs Frick spent considerable time in the department studying the Donaldson Smith collection in connection with his report on the material obtained by him in Africa.
Mr. Vernon Bailey also visited the Museum for the purpose of studying the series of Thomomys, and specimens have been loaned for study to Dr. J.
A. Allen, Messrs. R. C. Andrews, E. W. Nelson, G. S. Miller, Jr., and W. H. Osgood.
Dr. Witmer Stone made a critical study of the mammals collected by Mr. S. N. Rhoads in Ecuador and prepared a report on them, which has been published in the Proceedings.
Birds.
Additions to the exhibition series consist of several local specimens received from the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, a group of Swallow-tailed Kites from Texas, presented by Mr. George B. Benners, and a group of Heath Hens from Marthas Vineyard, the gift of Mr. Frederick H. Kennard, which have been recently mounted.
A large series of beautifully mounted birds, mainly from Texas and Pennsylvania, has been presented by Mr. Benners, which will be substituted for less desirable specimens in the general exhibit just as soon as cases can be secured for storing the duplicate material that must be withdrawn from exhibition before this collection can be rearranged.
The renovation of the study collection has continued without interruption.
Mr. D. E. Culver, student on the Jessup Fund, has proceeded with the relaxing of the old unmounted specimens and has completed all of the Tanagridse, Icterida, Ploceidse, Dicruridse, Oriolidse and Turdidse.
The fronts of the trays have been painted with white enamel and all the cases and trays have been relabelled and lined with sheet cotton, from the Psittacidse to the beginning of the Passeres.
Dr. Stone has also rearranged the Pigeons and Birds of Prey and has reidentified the entire collection of Humming-birds.
The type specimens have likewise been relaxed and relabelled.
A number of specimens have been identified for the Zoological Society and for correspondents, and a card catalogue of all new species of birds described since 1911 has been compiled for use in the study room.
A valuable series of bird skins from Santa Marta, Colombia, was received by purchase and a small number from West Africa.
Mr. Gregory M. Mathews spent two days at the Academy studying the Gould types in connection with his great work on the birds of Australia, and Prof. W. W. Cooke examined the collection for Texan specimens.
Many local students have al^o made use of the study material, and specimens were loaned to Messrs. E. W. Nelson, Frank M. Chapman, Harry C. Oberholser and Dr. E. A. Mearns.
Reptiles and Batrachians.
Mr. Henry W. Fowler has looked after this department during the year and has identified and prepared for preservation all the new material received, numlKn-ing several hundred specimens, of which about 100 have been catalogued.
The stuffed reptiles of the old collection, as well as the reptilian osteological material, have been gathered together in a room on the fourth floor, where they are readily accessible.
Specimens have been loaned to Dr. L. Stejneger for study.
Fishes.
The ichthyological collection has also been under Mr. Fowler's care.
He has examined the main alcoholic collection and prepared, identified and labelled all the specimens obtained during the year, cataloguing some 2,600 individuals.
Numerous local trips that he has taken have added large series of Pennsylvania and New Jersey fishes to the collection.
He has also studied critically the large group of catfishes and related forms contained in the Museum and has a report on them now in preparation.
Papers have been published on Greenland, British Guianan, and local fishes in the Academy's Proceedings.
MOLLUSKS.
Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, special curator of this department, reports that accessions have been received during the year from 69 persons and institutions.
No small part of his time, as well as that of Mr. E. G. Vanatta, has been taken up in determining specimens for correspondents, and while this work is rendered freely by the Academy, as a service it owes to the public, it is abundantly repaid by the gifts of desired specimens.
Although no expeditions have been undertaken during the year for this department, Messrs. Ferriss and Daniels have shared the results of their summer's collecting in Arizona, covering a district not before worked for mollusks, and local collecting trips by members of the Museum staff have added some valuable material.
Considerable progress has been made in determining and labelling the Hawaiian material collected by Dr. Pilsbry in 1913; the assorting of mixed lots having been completed, so that all species not yet determined are available for convenient study.
The study and arrangement of the Achatinellidce have been completed.
The series of American land shells and of land operculates have been cleaned and catalogued by Miss Caroline Ziegler, who has also been occupied with assorting material received from various sources.
Dr. Pilsbry has completed the publication of a monograph of the Hawaiian tree snails, Achatinsllidx, together with a supplement describing new material collected in 1913.
The preparation of a monograph of the family Tornatellinidce, also largely Hawaiian, is well advanced.
Insects.
Dr. Henry Skinner, head of the department of Entomology, reports that he and Mr. E. T. Cresson, Jr., have rearranged the families Gyrinidae, Hydrophihdse and part of the Scarabseidse among the Coleoptera and the exotic and American Syntomidse, Uranidae and the genus Catagramma among the Lepidoptera.
Considerable time has also been devoted to a study of over 8,000 Acalyptrate Diptera.
Dr. Horn's types of Coleoptera in the families Throscidse, Malachidse, Cleridse, Ptinidae, Lucanidse and Scarab2eida3 have been located and numbered, as well as many of Grote's types of Moths.
The local collection is being entirely rearranged in cabinets in the Entomological rooms, where it is easily accessible and can be added to from time to time.
The arrangement of the Odonata, Orthoptera, Lepidoptera, Rhopalocera, and part of the Heterocera and Coleoptera has been completed.
In the Orthoptera Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn has rearranged the Blattidse and Dermaptera, the exotic Mantidae and a considerable portion of the North American Tettigoniidae.
He has been engaged more or less regularly throughout the year, in conjunction with Mr. Morgan Hebard, in studying the Orthoptera collected by them in the southeastern United States, together with material from the ^ame area loaned by Cornell University, the State of Georgia and individual collectors.
In this connection six genera were critically revised, and papers on them are in press or in process of completion.
Mr. Rehn has also made considerable progress in the study of Brazilian Orthoptera received from various sources and has started upon the determination of African collections submitted by the Berlin Museum and German National Entomological Museum, from which the Academy will receive a duplicate series.
A collection of Phasmidae from New Guinea, sent by the Royal Zoological Society of Amsterdam, is to be worked up on the same terms.
Mr. Hebard, who has spent much time studying his private collection, which is deposited at the Academy, has presented many specimens originally in the Bruner collection and has continued to maintain a preparator whose services have been given libci-ally to the Academy in connection with the Orthoptera collection.
Through his liberality also, Mr. Rehn was enabled to accompany him to Boston and Washington to study type material.
The Entomological department has received many valuable accessions during the year.
A series of 5,296 moths and other insects, the collection of the late Charles S. Welles, was presented by Mrs. Welles, while Mr. C. C. Deam presented 892 Lepidoptera from Florida and Guatemala.
Dr. Witmer Stone collected 612 insects in central South Carolina, and Dr. Skinner some 1,500 specimens from eastern Cuba, one-third of which were Lepidoptera.
Numerous local specimens were also collected or presented.
IVIany specialists have availed themselves of the opportunity of studying the collections, among whom were Messrs. A. N. Caudell, W. T. Davis, Charles T. Ramsden, W. P. Comstock, F. E. Lutz, R. A. Leussler, C. T. Alexander.
Other Invertebrates.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry has spent considerable time in the study of the Cirripeds of the Academy and the National Museum Collections, upon which he has prepared a report.
With the addition of' duplicates from the National Museum received in return for this work, the collection of the Academy is now believed to be the third in the number of species represented.
Mr. Fowler has cared for most of the other alcoholic Crustacea and lower invertebrates received during the year and has been instrumental in securing a large number of local specimens, so that the collection is now fairly representative of the local fauna.
He cleansed the entire series of local Arachnida and Myriapoda, placing them in nev/ vials, which were then arranged in large jars and flooded with alcohol.
Invertebrate Fossils.
Mr. E. G. Vanatta has catalogued and labelled the collection of British Crag Fossils.
Little has been accomplished in the rearrangement of the palaeozoic material which is badly in need of study.
The recent accessions have been studied, identified, and arranged by Dr. Pilsbry, notably the Vickers-Oberholtzer Collection of Oeland fossils and various small lots of tertiary and cretaceous.
Dr. Amos P. Brown has also continued, as opportunity arose, to render generous assistance in this department.
A fine group of siliceous sponges from the Upper Devonian of New York has been presented by Dr. John M. Clarke.
662 • proceedings of the academy of [dec, Vertebrate Fossils.
Much progress has been made in bringhig the collections in this department into order.
Mr. J.
A. G. Eehn has cleansed and catalogued the entire series of mammalian and avian remains and finished the systematic arrangement of all the smaller specimens in trays under the cases on the gallery of the north wing.
Mr. Henry W. Fowler has done the same for the fishes which are arranged in drawer cases on the fourth floor.
He has also catalogued the entire series of reptiles.
Dr. Stone has temporarily arranged the reptiles and larger mammalian specimens in old cases in the north wing which have been renovated for the purpose.
This brings the material all together, but new cases will be required before it can be systematically displayed.
Material has been loaned during the yesiv to Drs.
R. W. Shufeldt and L. Hussakof.
Herbarium.
Mr. Stewardson Brown, who has had charge of the collections of plants, was absent for nearly half the year on account of severe illness, but the department was looked after by Messrs. S. S. Van Pelt and Bayard Long, who have generously devoted almost their whole time to the care and development of the local collection of plants.
The work in the general herbarium has been mainly devoted to caring for the numerous accessions.
Miss Ada Allen has continued to do the mounting and Mr. Brown has labelled, catalogued and distributed the sheets as well as identified many specimens for correspondents.
Through an arrangement with the trustees of Lafayette College, the herbarium of the late Dr. Thomas C. Porter has been deposited in the Academy.
It is conservatively estimated to contain 30,000 sheets of plants, among which is the series of the Pennsylvania flora which served as the basis of Dr. Porter's State list.
The herbarium of the late Charles S. Williamson, containing some 10,000 sheets, has been presented by his sister, Miss Williamson.
Through the assistance of Mrs. Beulah M. Rhoads and the Botanical Section, it was possible to purchase the valuable collection of 1900 ferns and fern allies made by Mr. W. A. Poyser, which adds greatly to the completeness of this section of the Academy's herbarium.
The Botanical Section also presented 800 sheets of California plants.
Dr. Witmer Stone collected 500 sheets in South Carolina and Mr. Brown 200 in Bermuda; 1,300 others were received from various donors.
Messrs. Long and Van Pelt have voluntarily assumed care of the local herbarium, and some 4,000 specimens were added during the year.
Mr. Van Pelt has devoted his time to poisoning and mounting the material, while Mr. Long has done much local field work, critically studied the material and identified and lal)elled it.
Dr. Stone spent some time in arranging and sorting the lower orders in the Porter herbarium preparatory to having the specimens mounted.
Specimens have been loaned for scientific study to Messrs. K. K. McKenzie, J. K. Small, Harold St. John, C. S. Sargent and M. L. Fernald.
Minerals and Rocks.
The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections, Mr. F. J. Keeley, reports that Mr. Samuel G. Gordon, a student on the Jessup Fund during the year has completed the cataloguing of the minerals.
Thirteen additions have been made during the year.
The collection now numbers 8,193 specimens.
The catalogue of the general Academy collection has also been brought up to date and comprises 8,508 entries.
This collection has been rearranged by Mr. Gordon in trays under the cases in the archaeological hall, in accordance with Dana's classification (sixth edition) , and is thus easily accessible for study or consultation.
The local collection of minerals was thoroughly cleansed and rearranged geographically.
While lacking a number of local minerals, it is good representative collection.
All the rocks stored in various parts of the north museum building have been brought together and arranged in temporary cases of drawers by Mr. Gordon, following Rosenbusch's system, so that they may be easily consulted.
Archeology and Ethnology.
In this department the material obtained by Mr. Clarence B. Moore's expeditions has been placed on exhibition under his direction.
Two cases were procured for the display of portions of the Wm.
S. Vaux Collections, which have been withdrawn from exhibition for several years, owing to changes in the hall during alterations.
Two other cases were installed for exhibiting portions of the Pueblo pottery and basketry contained in the Gottschall Collection.
This collection, comprising about 5,000 specimens, was presented by Mr. A. H. Gottschall, of Harrisburg, Pa., who gathered it together from 1871 to 1892.
It forms an exceedingly valuable collection of ethnographic and archaeological material, which strengthens the Academy's department where it was weakest.
The greater part of the collection is still of necessity preserved in storage; but beside the exhibit mentioned.
Miss H. N. Wardle, who superintended the packing and unpacking of the collection, has -picked out, labelled and catalogued some 350 pieces of Eskimo and northwest coast material.
Miss Wardle has had to rearrange a large part of 'the ethnographic exhibition to make room for these accessions.
A series of 89 European Stone Age artefacts found among the Fourier Collections of fossils were turned over to Miss Wardle and have been cleansed, catalogued and labelled.
Another valuable addition to the department has been a gift of numerous pieces of basketry, etc., from Mrs. Curwin Stoddart.
Wither Stone, Chairman.
Samuel G. Dixon, IM.D.
Henry A. Pilsbry.
Henry Tucker.
REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS.
Many of the statements heretofore found in the reports of the Sections are now included in the Curators' Report.
Biological and Microscopical SECTioN.^Eight stated meetings have been held during the year.
The following communications were made: Mr. F. J. Keeley described various species of diatoms, including, specimens he had collected in Florida.
Mr. T. C. Palmer, besides other communications, described species of diatoms he had collected in Yellowstone Park.
Mr. Hugo Bilgram exhibited certain varieties of Myxomycetes, which appeared to be new.
Mr. C. S. Boyer exhibited a new species of Chcetoceros, a description of which was published in the Proceedings.
Dr. T. S. Stewart exhibited various pathological slides.
Other communications were made by Messrs. S. L. Schumo, J. W. Palmer, W. H. Van Sickel, William B. Davis, and several visitors.
The following officers were elected for the ensuing year : Director Dr. J. Che.ston Morris.
Vice-Diredor T. Chalkley Palmer.
Recorder Charles S. Boyer.
Corresponding Secretary Silas L. Schumo.
Treasurer Dr. Thomas S. Stewart.
Curator F. J. Keeley.
Charles S. Boyer, Recorder.
Entomological Section.
— The regular monthly meetings have been held during the year and communications of interest have been made.
The proceedings have been published in Entomological News and are therefore permanently recorded.
At a meeting held December 14th the following persons were elected officers to serve for the coming year: Director Philip Laurent.
Vice-Director Henry W. Wenzel.
Treasurer Ezra T. Cresson.
Conservator Henry Skinner.
Secretary J.
A. G. Rehn.
Recorder Henry Skinner.
Publication Committee E. T. Cresson andE.
T. Cresson, Jr. Henry Skinner, Recorder.
Botanical Section.
— Satisfactory progress has been made in the mounting and distribution of specimens in the herbarium, notwithstanding the absence of the Conservator, through illness, during the first half of the year.
Additions, which are enumerated in detail in the report of the Curators, have agregated approximately 50,000 specimens, of which 2,700 were purchased.
At the annual meeting of the Section, held on November 25, the following officers were elected to serve for the ensuing year : Director Benjamin H. Smith.
.
Vice-Director Joseph Crawford.
Recorder John W. Eckfeldt, M.D.
Treasurer and Conservator Stewardson Brown.
Respectfull}^ submitted, Stewardson Brown, Conservator.
MiNERALOGiCAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
— The Section held four meetings this year, with about the usual average attendance.
A communication was made by Dr. Florence Bascom on Kaolin, and other communications on various subjects by different members.
At an additional meeting of the Section, in conjunction with the Academy, on March 23, Miss Mary M. Vaux made a communication on British Columl^ia Glaciers.
There were five field excursions, with an average attendance of over fifteen.
The parties visited: (1) The crystalline schists and limestones between Alton and Glen Hall, in Chester County; (2) The crystalline rocks and their minerals between Hockessin, Delaware, and Kennett Square, Chester County, Pa.; (3) The eastern graphite deposits of Chester County; (4) The crystalline rocks and their minerals on the East Branch of the Brandywine, below Downingtown, Chester County; (5) The gneiss and limestone near Kennett Square and Avondale, Chester County.
The following officers of the Section have been elected for the year 1915: Director Benj amin Smith Lyman.
Vice-Director F. J. Keeley.
Recorder and Secretary S. L. Schumo.
Treasurer William B. Davis.
Conservator George Vaux, Jr. Respectfully submitted by order of the Section.
Benjamin Smith Lyman, Director.
Ornithological Section.
— The Section has continued to take an active interest in the development of Ornithology at the Academy.
The Pennsylvania Audubon Society and Delaware Valley Ornithological Club have been encouraged to hold their meetings at the Academy, and many persons interested in bird study have thus been brought into closer relation with it.
At the annual meeting of the Section the following officers were chosen for the ensuing year: Director Spencer Trotter.
Vice-Director George Spencer Morris.
Recorder Stewardson Brown.
Secretary William A. Shryock.
Treasurer and Conservator Witmer Stone.
Respectfully submitted, Witmer Stone, Conservator.
The annual election of Officers, Councillors, and Members of the Committee on Accounts was held December 15, with the following result: President.
Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D.
Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Sc.D., John Cadwalader, A.M. Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Corresponding Secretary.J.
Percy Moore, Ph.D. Treasurer George Vaux, Jr.
Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Curators Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D.,' Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., Henry Tucker, M.D.
Councillors to serve three YEARS Charles B. Penrose, M.D.
, LL.D., Ph.D. Charles Morris, Spencer Trotter, M.D., WiUiam E. Hughes, M.D.
Committee on Accounts Charles Morris, Samuel N. Rhoads, John G. Rothermel, Thomas S. Stewart, M.D., Walter Horstman.
COUNCIL FOR 1915.
Ex-Officio.—^Simue\ G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., John Cadwalader, A.M., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., Henry Tucker, M.D.
To serve three years.
— Charles B. Penrose, M.D., LL.D., Ph.D., Charles Morris, Spencer Trotter, M.D., William E. Hughes, M.D.
To serve two years.
— Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Robert G. LeConte, M.D., George Spencer Morris.
To serve one year.
— Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., Frank J. Keeley, Thomas G. Ashton, M.D.
Solicitor of the Academy George Vaux, Jr. Curator of Mollusca Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D.
44 668 proceedings of the academy of [dec, Curator of William S. Vaux Collections Frank J. Keeley.
Custodian of Isaac Lea Collection Joseph Willcox.
Assistant Librarian William J.
Fox.
Assistants to Curators Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Stewardson Brown, J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., Edward G. Vanatta, Henry W. Fowler, James A. G. Rehn, Ezra T. Cresson, Jr., Harriet Newell Wardle.
Assistant in Library Furman Sheppard Wilde.
Aid in Herbarium Ada Allen.
Taxidermist David M. McCadden.
Janitors Charles Clappier, Daniel Heckler, James Tague, Jacob Aebley, Adam E. Heckler.
STANDING COMMITTEES.
Finance.
— John Cadwalader, A.M., Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham B. Morris, William D. Winsor, and the Treasurer.
Publications.
— Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J.
Fox, Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Library.
— George Vaux, Jr., Henry Tucker, M.D., Frank J. Keeley, Thomas Biddle, M.D., Witmer Stone, Sc.D.
Instruction and Lectures.
— Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles Morris, Henry Tucker, M.D., George Spencer Morris, and Stewardson Brown,
