COLPICHTHYS THYRINOPS.
AND AUSTROMENIDIA New Genera of Atherinoid Fishes from the New World.
BY CARL L. HUBBS.
COLPICHTHYS new genus.
Genotype.
 Atherinops regis Jenkins and Evermann Gulf of California .
Colpichthys regis is related to the species of Atherinops with which it has heretofore been considered congeneric.
But the Gulf species differs in so many ways from the typical species from the outer coasts of Lower California and from California and Oregon that a new genus may be erected for its sole reception.
Compared with Atherinops Colpichthys may be distinguished as follows.
The head is depressed although the body is deeper and more strongly compressed than in Atherinops.
The mouth is subinferior being on a level with the lower margin of the eye the upper lip is thickened.
The uniserial teeth are Yshaped but the inner fork is usually much the shorter.
The gillrakers 16 to 18 in number along the lower limb of the outer arch are strongly compressed curved serrate on their inner margins and relatively short being about onefourth as long as the eye.
In typical Atherinops the gillrakers are rather more numerous 20 to 25 and they are slender terete straight nearly smooth and about twofifths as long as the eye.
The scales of Colpichthys differ markedly from those of Atheriiiops although constructed on a similar plan.
The posterior or exposed field of the scale is marked outward from the focus to the first annulus or seasonal ring by circuli similar to those of the anterior field but beyond this mark the circuli assume a sharply and irregularly undulate course paralleling the posterior margin of the scale.
In Atherinops proper A. affinis the circuli of the po.sterior field throughout maintain a nearly even course and are all greath crowded while in Colpichthys only those in the annuli or year checks are closely approximated.
In Colpichthys there are about six basal radii within the first annulus beyond which the number is abruptly decreased.
In Atherinops on the other hand the radii are often absent but on some scales 1 2 or even 3 are in' evidence and these radii are not 22 modified at the first annulus.
In Colpichthys further the scales are rather thicker and larger than in Atherinops the number of transverse series 47 to 51 instead of 52 to 72.
Colpichthys a fish of the bay or gulf.
THYRINOPS new genus.
Genotype.
 Atherinichthys pachylepis Giinther 1864   Menidia pachijlepis Jordan and Evermann 1896  Thyrina pachylepis Jordan and Evermann 1898 and Regan 1907  Kirtlandia pachylepis Gilbert and Starks 1904.
Thyrinops pachylepis the only species of the genus occupies a position almost exactly intermediate between Kirtlandia and Atherinella agreeing with both of these genera as well as with Menidia etc. in the posterior position of the anal fin which is not advanced as in Thyrina and Eury stole.
Thyrina closely resembles Thyrinops and is probably a freshwater derivative from some such form.
This conclusion is strengthened by the fact that some species of Thyrina especially T. sardina have the scales on the sides more or less laciniate.
Thyrinops may be diagnosed as follows form moderately slender contracted ventrally as in Thyrina.
Head rather pointed gape strongly arched downward posteriorly jaws forming a semicircular curve when viewed from above maxillary not reaching to below front of orbit.
Teeth in villiform bands rather wide in the upper jaw but narrow in the lower outer series of premaxillary teeth spaced and a little enlarged entire palate toothless.
Scales thickened rather deeper than long the free margin rounded but the dorsal ventral and basal margins nearly straight circuli absent from the apical field which is crossed by numerous fine subparallel radii between which the scale is produced so as to form a border more finely laciniate than in Membras Kirtlandia  basal field usually crossed by a line or two along which the circuli are curved inward basal radii usually absent on the trunk scales or only a few shallow ones developed whereas on the tail the scales are deeply sculptured with well developed radii  The number of scales is about 40 in lateral series.
Fin rays dorsal IV or VI 6 to 8 anal I 20 to 23.
Anal base decidedly longer than head as in Thyrina soft dorsal and anal fins scaleless falcate in outline origin of spinous dorsal well behind that of the anal about an orbital length separating the two 1 This variation has been entii'ely too much neglected in recent studies of fish scales not so much in this family as in other groups.
verticals pectorals falcate and elongate reaching nearly to or even beyond the tips of the pelvic fins.
Two specimens of T. pachylepis are at hand they were collected January 5 1908 by Anastasio Alfaro in the Estero at Tivives near Puntarenas in Costa Rica.
Lengths to base of caudal 88 and 113 mm.
The socalled annuli or seasonal rings on the scales are well developed and resemble those of California Atherinids the scales .show respectively 2 and 3 of these rings probably indicating the age in years of the two fishes.
Dorsal rays IVI 7 both specimens  anal I 20 and I 21 pectorals reaching a little past tips of pelvics their length being contained 3.4 and 3.6 times in the total.
Scales 409 and 429.
AUSTROMENIDIA new genus.
Athcnnichlhys in part Giinther Cat.
3 p. 402 not Atherinichthys Bleeker  Ckirostoma Swainson.
Basilichthys of authors not of Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1854 p. 198 microlepidotus  regia hence Basilichthys  Gastroplerns Cope  Pisciregia Abbott see Thompson Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 50 1916 pp.
4G3466.
Genotype.
 Basilichthys regillus Abbott.
Austromenidia is used to replace Basilichthys of authors and not of Girard whose original type belongs to the genus later called Gastropterus and Pisciregia.
The fishes of this genus referable to several species inhabit both coasts of southern South America.
They are of comparatively large size and are of commercial importance.
The scales are notably small numbering from 67 to over 100 in lateral series.
Both jaws are strong and arched downward posteriorly the premaxillary is dilated distally.
The teeth are disposed in narrow lands along the jaws and are usually absent from the vomer although a few teeth or even a small patch may be present on that bone.
The first dorsal fin begins well before the anal at a point about midway between base of snout and base of caudal.
It will be noted from the foregoing diagnosis that Austromenidia resembles Menidia very closely differing from it in the larger size the stronger jaws and the much finer scales.
The species of Chirostoma confined to the fauna of the Lerma River System in Mexico form a large series with diverse extremes.
The scales are usually larger 37 to 75 than in Austromenidia the 2 Regan's extreme count for diazi the number probably includes the scales on the base of the caudal fin..
The scales are usually larger in Chirostoma.
lower jaw stronger projecting beyond the upper at least at the symphysis and forcing the gape into an oblique direction.
Species of  Atherijiichthys have been recorded by Gtinther and others from Australia and Tasmania but they cannot be congeneric with any New World genera. The same is true of Atherinichthys nouhuysi Weber from New Guinea.
The original type of Atherinichthys is identical with that of Chirostoma an earlier name.
Two genera related to Ausiromenidia Odontesthes and Kronia have been described from the east coast of South America.
Odontesthes Evermann and KendalP has a peculiarly pikelike form produced by the strength of the jaws and by the positions of the dorsal and anal fins which are inserted much farther back than in Ausiromenidia the spinous dorsal originates nearly opposite the anal.
The scales are of medium size about 50 to 70 transverse series.
The teeth on the jaws are in two series and there are 2 or 3 groups of vomerine teeth.
Kronia recently described by Ribeiro is said to have 3 linear groups of vomerine teeth large sublaciniate scales in 54 series and the dorsal origin directly over the anus.
Perhaps Kronia is synonymous with Odontesthes but it is not the same as Ausiromenidia. '  The species have all been reexamined as regards this character the single exception is C. promelas in which the upper jaw has secondarily become hooked over the lower somewhat as in the breeding male of Oncorhynchus.
 See McCuUoch Proc.
Rov.
Soc.
Queensland 24 1912 p. 49.
5 Notes Leyden Mus. 32 1910 p. 229.
6 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 31 1906 p. 94. '
Arch.
Mus.
Nat.
Rio de Janeiro 17 1915 Fauna Brasiliensis Peixes Trematolepides p. 9.
 Aiheriua argentinensis Cuvier and Valenciennes Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. 10 1S35 p. 472 seems to be referable to Odonicsthes.
It is described as having scales in ten longitudinal series they being smaller than in Menidia brasiliensis but larger than in Ausiromenidia laliclavia and as having the spinous dorsal opposite the anus.
1917.
309 MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII.
IVVII.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Since the publication of the first paper of this series' the writer has been able to study part of the important collection of Hawaiian marine shells made by Professor Wm.
Alanson Bryan and Airs.
Bryan which they had brought to the Academy for identification.
It is very rich in the shells of Kauai Oahu and Molokai also several of the islets of the northwestern group as far as Laysan.
The present paper treats also of shells collected by Mr. D. Thaanum minutise picked out of shellsand sent many years ago by Mr. Frederick Stearns and material collected by the author.
IV.
EULIMID.
Melanella bryani n. sp.
Fig.
l. Laysan Island Wm.
Alanson Bryan 1902.
Type No.
117595 A. N. S. P. paratypes in Bryan collection.
The shell is obliquely conic the upper half rather strongly curved to the right and backward smooth white the later whorls having Fig.
1.
 Melanella bryani.
Fig.
2.
 Melanella mimus.
a broad gray border below the suture which is somewhat impressed.
A single series of well impressed linear varices runs up the right side receding to a dorsal position in the upper whorls.
The whorls are slightly convex.
The aperture is small subvertical.
The columella  Marine Mollusks of Hawaii IIII these Proceedings pp.
207230 August 1917.
310 Dec is deeply concave parietal wall rather heavily calloused.
The outer lip in profile view is almost straight not arching forward.
Length 10 diam.
5 length of aperture with peristome 3 mm.
Melanella mimus n. sp.
Fig.
2.
Kailua Oahu W. A. Bryan.
Type No.
117593 A. N. S. P. paratypes in Bryan coll.
The shell is rather slender the spire having a distinct double curvature smooth white the suture linear not impressed.
A series of linear varices runs up the right side spirally receding to the dorsal side as usual.
The whorls are almost flat the last being very obtusely subangular.
The aperture is ovate columella moderately concave parietal callous thin.
The outer lip arches strongly forward.
Length 5.3 diam.
2 length of aperture 1.5 mm.
Melanella kanaka n. sp Fig.
3.
Kailua Oahu W. A. Bryan.
Type No.
117594 A. N. S. P. paratype in Bryan coll.
The shell is very small conic attenuated and recurved in the upper third smooth whitish the suture linear superficial broadly gray margined below the margin defined by a whitish line.
A continuous series of impressed linear varices runs up the right side receding but little upward.
The whorls of the spire are scarcely I'lg.
3.
 Melanella kanaka.
convex the last being moderately convex.
The aperture is small subovate the inner margin much less curved than the outer.
The outer lip arches very strongh' forward as seen in profile.
Length 4.2 diam.
1.62 lenglh of aperture 1.45 mm.
 about 10 whorls.
1917.
311 E.. infiexa Pse. from the Paumotus is similar in sha but far larger.
A form from Kahala Oahu right fig.
 collected by s. A. F. Letson differs by being a little more conic the last whorl mce ample in the peripheral region.
Length 4 diam.
1.7 mm.
Melanella ima n. sp.
Fig.
4.
Pamnalu Oahu W. A. and E. L. Bryan.
Type No.
11592 A. N. S. P. paratypes in Bivan coll.
The shell is small slender the upper half curving strongl to the right smooth whitish the linear suture rather narrowly brdered with gray.
The whorls are very slightly convex.
The sries of linear varices on the right side recedes to the dorsal side above.
A Fig.
4.
 Melanella ima.
The aperture is shaped as in M. kanaka and as in that specie the outer lip arches forward strongly.
Length 4.3 diam.
1.35 length of aperture 1.05 mm.
More slender than M. kanaka and curved for a greater prt of its length.
The shape of the last whorl distinguishes it froi .1.
mimus.
Melanella letsonae n. sp.
Fig.
5.
Mokapu Point Oahu.
Type No.
117633 A. N. S. P. collet ed by Mrs. A. F. Letson.
Also in Bryan collection.
The shell is very slender white moderately curved to the ight somewhat solid.
There is a row of varixlines on the right ide becoming dorsal in the upper part of the spire.
The whorlae nearly flat the suture superficial having a broad gray border bow.
Last whorl is obtusely subangular above the middle the base tapeing 312 Dec. slightly fcnvex.
The aperture is small ovate.
The outer lip curves forward fery strongly in the middle.
Lengtl 4.5 diam.
1.6 length of aperture 1.2 mm.
 10 whorls.
Melanellalunata n sp.
Fig.
6.
Mokii Point Oahu.
Type No.
117634 A. N. S. P. collected by Mrs. Aw.
Let son.
The nell is rather slender somewhat solid white very strongly curved o the right and a little backward above.
The whorls are nearly ftat and marked with varixlines on the right becoming dorsal bove.
Suture superficial distinctly but shortly descending to eaclvarixline and to the aperture broadly bordered below with gray.
The aperture is small ovate.
The outer lip moderately archedforward in the middle.
B Peas 'ig.
5.
 Melanella letsonce.
Fig.
. Melanella lunata.
Legth 6.6 diam.
2.3 length of aperture 1.75 mm.
 10 whorls remaning the apex being imperfect.
its strong curvature this species resembles Subularia distorta  but there is no ridge or keel on the left side of the base as in tb species of Subularia.
Subuiria delicata n. sp.
IVkapu Point Oahu.
Type No.
117632 A. N. S. P. collected by Its.
A. F. Letson.
Te shell resembles S. metcalfei but differs by being smaller and deciedly more slender.
It is thin pellucid showing the internal colum and partitions through the shell.
The spire is straight.
1917.
313 whorls slightly convex having varixlines on both sides the last whorl having a short keel below characteristic of the genus.
Length 4.3 diam.
1.3 length of aperture 1.4 mm.
 9 whorls.
This species will be figured in connection with material on Subularia in the next paper of this series.
V. THE PYRAMIDELLIDiE.
Further species of this family are to follow when illustrations can be prepared.
Turbonilla Chemnitzia obleotamentum n. p.
Fig.
8.
Haleiwa.
Oahu.
Type Xo.
116543 A. N. S. P. coll.
y H. A. Pilsbr  1913.
Also Haena Kauai W. A. and E. L. Bryan.
The shell is turrited diameter contained slightly less than three times in the length.
Nuclear shell of at least two whorls tilted towards its spire which is low and half immersed.
First postnuclear whorl having vertical ribs the rest moderately convex with sculpture is H  s ' f Fig.
7.
 Turbonilla kauaiensis.
Fig.
8.
 Turhonilla obledamentum.
of rather large rounded protractive ribs about 17 on the last whorl parted by intervals slightly wider than the ribs.
On the last Avhorl the concave intervals stop abruptly at the periphery yet very slight continuations of the ribs or part of them are visible on the base.
The suture is deeply impressed almost channelled.
The aperture is ovate the columella thick barely perceptibly sinuous almost straight.
Length 2.45 cliam.
0.85 length of aperture 0.6 mm.
 6 postnuclear whorls.
Turboniila Chemnitzia kahoolawensis n sp.
North shore of Kahoolawe.
Type No.
116179 A. N. S. P. coll.
by Pilsbry 1913.
The shell is similar to T. oblectamentum except in the following characters.
It is relatively narrower.
The ribs are similar but more numerous about 30 on the last whorl and as wide as the intervals.
The suture is very deeply impressed a little more channelled than in the other species.
The nuclear whorls are too much worn to show the shape well.
The lateral outlines of the spire are distinctly convex.
Length 3 diam.
0.85 mm.
 7 postnuclear whorls.
Turboniila Turboniila kauaiensis n. sp.
Fig.
7.
Haena Kauai.
Type No.
117626 A. N. S. P. coll.
by W. A. and E. L. Bryan paratype in Bryan coll.
The shell is slender the diameter contained about 3 times in the length nuclear whorl elevated smooth.
Subsequent whorls are slightly convex sculptured with smooth straight rounded vertical ribs equal to their equally smooth intervals and 24 in numler on the penult whorl.
On the last wiorl the ribs extend upon the base but weaken there.
Aperture is rhombic the columella stout very weakly sinuous.
Length 2.75 diam.
0.8 aperture 0.6 mm.
 7h postnuclear whorls.
This very minute species differs from T. kahoolawensis by the simple suture the extension of the vertical ribs upon the base and the nearly straight outlines of the spire.
Turboniila Chemnitzia tbaanumi Pils.
and Van.
1908.
Turboniila Chemnitzia thaanumi P. and V. Nautilus vol.
22 p. 58 fig.
3.
Hilo Hawaii D. Thaanum.
This minute shell differs from the preceding by the abrupt termination of the intercostal valleys on the last whorl.
Turboniila Evaletta elizabethae n. sp Fig5.
9 9o.
Waianae Oahu.
Type and paratypes No.
117596 A. N.' S. P. coll.
by W. A. and E. L. Bryan paratypes in Bryan coll.
Also from Waikiki beach Stearns Honolulu Harbor Paumalu Mokapu Point Bryan and Kahala Mrs. Letson Oahu.
Haena and Hanalei River Kauai Bryan Kailua Kona coast of Hawaii Bryan Laysan Island Bryan.
The shell is subulate the upper third or half pink the rest white.
1917.
315 The initial whorl is low with iiiturned tip following whorls are convex regularly increasing very densely microscopically striate spirally.
The suture is narrowly channelled.
The slopes of the spire are nearly straight.
The aperture is ovate oblique.
The columella bears a small fold visible in oblique view in the mouth but so far immersed that it is not seen in direct front view.
Length 6.7 diam 1.65 length of aperture 1.65 mm.
 10 whorls type.
Length 7.6 diam.
2 length of aperture 1.7 mm.
largest specimen seen .
Fig.
9.
 Turbonilla dizabelhcE.
9a.
 A young specimen from Honolulu length 2.8 mm.
Fig.
10.
 Turbonilla laijsanensis.
This pretty delicately colored shell is named for Mrs. W. A. Bryan.
The nuclear whorl is so far immersed that it resembles that of Odostomia.
By Dr. Bartsch's kej it runs nearest to the subgenus CareJiopsis MOrch but that differs by the characters of the nuclear shell.
T. eUzabethce is here made the type of a new subgenus to be called Evaletta characterized by the low inturned nuclear whorl and the evenly convex whorls microscopically striate spirally.
The lengthened form and numerous whorls separate it from Odostomia wherein it approaches the subgenus Evalina somewhat.
Turbonilla Evaletta laysanensis n. sp.
Fig.
10.
Laysan Island.
Type No.
117627 A. N. S. P. collected by W. A. Bryan.
Shell similar in color and shape of the whorls to T. elizahethce but of decidedly broader form and of fewer whorls in a shell of greater length.
The type has lost the nuclear whorl.
Length 8.7 diam.
2.2 mm.
 8 postnuclear whorls.
Turbonilla Lancella varicosa AAd.
PiXXII figs.
5 6 7.
1853.
Chemnitzia varicosa A.
Ad. P. Z. S. p. 181 PI.
20 fig.
15.
1860. 
Turbonilla decussata Pease P. Z. S. p. 438.
Off Honolulu in 68 fathoms dredged by Mr. D. B. Kuhns.
Also in the ThaanumKuhns collection.
Some young specimens were taken at Haena Kauai Iw Prof and Mrs. Bryan.
The shell is slender turrited with long attenuate spire cinnamon colored or nearly white with cinnamon bands.
Nuclear shell of one smooth elevated whorl the spire exposed low.
Postnuclear whorls are moderately convex with sculpture of close rounded axial ribs their intervals deep and equal to the ribs on the upper whorls about half as wide as the ribs on the last four whorls.
There are also swollen white varices as wide as three to five ribs at irregular intervals more numerous in the lower whorls in all 8 in the specimen shown in fig.
5.
The axial ribs and varices are crossed by rather strong spiral cords about 10 between sutures the fourth from above being a little larger than the others.
The last whorl is rounded peripherally and has a short convex base.
The aperture is trapezoidal angular at the base of the columella.
Columella vertical with a sharp very oblique spiral fold at the base.
Parietal callous scarcely noticeable.
Length 22 diam.
4.7 length of aperture 4.2 mm.
 15 postnuclear whorls.
Chemnitzia varicosa was described from the ''Eastern Seas.
The description and figure agree well with Hawaiian specimens.
I have not seen T. cornelliana Newc from Honolulu.
The subgenus Lancella Dall and Bartsch was founded by W. H. Pease under the preoccupied name Lancea for large varicose Turbonillas having conspicuous vertical and spiral sculpture a prominent nucleus tilted towards its very low spire and a small spiral fold emerging near the base of the columella.
In this last feature it differs from all other Turbonillas and perhaps the group should be ranked as a genus.
Besides the species described or mentioned below the following belong here T. elongata Pease name preoc  T. peasei D. and B.
 the genotype from Paumotus.
T. bella D. and B. of Japan.
Also apparently T. cornelliana Newc from Honolulu and possibly T. grandis Chemnitzia grandis Ads.
and Rve. neither of which I have seen.
Turbonilla Lancella vitiensis n sp.
PI.
XXII fig.
4.
The shell is turrited white embryonic whorl on edge but leaning towards its spire which is low.
Subsequent whorls with sculpture of low rounded vertical ribs somewhat unequal and parted by narrow furrows there are about 24 such ribs on the penult whorl also very few swollen varices in the type three on the left side of the last whorl on the third and on the sixth whorls above the last.
Over ribs intervals and varices there are seven low spiral cords much wider than their intervals on each whorl to the last which has 17 the lower cords being narrower there.
The aperture is trapezoidal outer lip simple columella straight vertical having a small steeplj ascending spiral fold near the base.
It joins Avith the basal margin in a rather small curve but there is no angle at the junction.
Length 15.5 diam.
4 mm.
 aperture 3.3 mm.
long 13 postembryonic whorls.
Viti Islands.
Type and 2 other specimens are No.
20046 A. N. S. P. collected by A. J. Garrett.
Several lots sent by Mr. Garrett at different times show this to be rather constant in size and other characters.
There are usually two distinct and often one small varix.
The name vitiensis was used on one of Garrett's labels but I cannot find that he published it.
Turbonilla vitiensis clavus n. subsp.
PL XXII fig.
.3.
The shell is similar to T. vitiensis except that it is more slender penult whorl with 20 vertical ribs.
Length 12.5 diam.
2.9 mm.
 length of aperture 2.5 mm.
 13 postembryonic whorls.
Viti Islands.
Type No.
117597 A. N. S. P. collected y A. J. Garrett.
Odostomia Odostomella patrioia n. spFig ii.
Waikiki beach near Honolulu.
Type No.
93944 A. N. S. P. collected by Frederick Stearns.
The shell is oblong solid white the last whorl encircled with three cinnamon bands two of which are visible on the penult and one on the preceding whorl.
The nuclear whorl is rather well elevated smooth.
Subsequent whorls have rounded axial ribs as wide as their intervals about 20 on the last whorl where they continue over the base though weaker below.
Lender a high power some weak spiral striation is visible on the base.
The suture is narrow and rather deeply impressed.
The aperture is rather narrowly ovate oblique.
Columellar fold small.
Length 1.6 diam.
0.7 length of aperture 0.55 mm.
 4 whorls.
This species is smaller than 0. doliolum with narrower ribs lut much the same coloring.
318 Dec There is a similar pink form with roseate apical whorl which may be called var.
rosa and another form similarly colored with only about 16 larger ribs on the last whorl and having the nuclear whorl larger it may be named var.
rhodocephala.
Fig.
11.
 Odostomia patricia.
Fig.
12.
 Odostomia syrtites.
Odostomia Chrysallida stearnsiella n. sp.
Fig.
n. Waikiki beach near Honolulu Oahu.
Type No.
93931 A. N. S. P. collected by Frederick Stearns.
The shell is ovateconic solid white.
Nuclear whorl regular well raised the apex turned in two or three following whorls have weak axial folds.
All of the postnuclear whorls have narrow spiral furrows on the last whorl there are four above the periphery the upper one widest and after a peripheral smooth zone the base has about 6 weak spiral cords.
The aperture is ovate the columellar fold strong.
Length 3.5 diam.
1.4 length of aperture 1.3 mm.
 5 postnuclear whorls.
Odostomia Miralda syrtites n. sp.
Fig.
12.
Waikiki beach Oahu.
Type No.
93934 A. N. S. P. The shell is ovateconic white.
Nuclear whorl smooth somewhat elevated the apex depressed.
Following wliorls of the spire having a broad raised zone indistinctly bipartite bearing somewhat oblique ribs this is followed by a spiral sulcus and a stout smooth spiral ridge.
On the last whorl the depression dividing the upper zone is deeper there are about 26 oblique ribs.
From the periphery down there are about seven spiral ridges the last three quite weak.
The aperture is ovate oblique.
Columellar fold strong rather thick.
Length 1.7 diam.
0.95 length of aperture 0.65 mm.
4 whorls in all.
There are more basal keels than in 0. scopulorimi Watson and the 1917.
319 shell is broader.
Though larger it has a whorl less than Watson's species.
Odostomia Miralda scopulorum Watson.
Fig.
13.
Odosiomia scopulorum Watson Challenger Rep. Gastrop. p. 485 PI.
31 fig.
5.
Reefs off Honolulu 4 fathoms Challenger.
Hilo Hawaii D. Thaanum .
The original figures are copied.
The specimen measures 1.2 mm.
long 0.5 wide having 5 whorls.
There is  a strong oblique deepset tooth about the middle of the inner lip.
a.
1 Fig.
13.
 Odostomia scopulonim after Watson.
Shell X 35 and apex X 60.
Mr. Thaanum's specimens agree well with the type description and figures.
Odostomia Miralda paulbartschi n. sp.
Fig 1.5.
North shore of Kahoolawe.
Type No.
116163 A. N. S. P. coll.
by Pilsbry 1913.
Also beach east of Honolulu No.
93940.
The shell is taperingoblong white.
The nuclear whorl is smooth convex low with depressed tip.
Following whorls of the spire have two large rounded spiral ridges bearing slightly oblique nodes which are weakly connected across the median depression a narrow smooth cord revolving immediately above the suture.
On the last whorl the postsutural cord continues at the periphery and there are three spiral cords on the base.
The aperture is somewhat oblique.
Outer lip scalloped.
The columella is narrow terminating above in a small fold.
Length 2.3 diam.
0.95 length of aperture 0.8 mm.
 a trifle over 6 whorls.
A single perfect example of this Miralda was found in beach debris on Kahoolawe and two from near Honolulu.
It is obviously distinct from 0. scopulorum Watson the only related species described from the islands.
320 Dec Odostomia Miralda Vi pupu n. sp.
Fig.
16.
Waikiki beach near Honolulu Oahu.
Type Xo.
93943 A. N. S. P. The shell is oblongconic white solid.
Nuclear whorl is rounded rather elevated smooth.
Subseciuent whorls of the spire are sculptured with three smooth subequal strongly raised spiral keels their summits rounded.
The intervals are equal to the keels in width and have sculpture of spaced axial threads.
On the last whorl there are six spirals the anterior two very low.
The aperture is ovate oblique.
Columellar fold is rather strong.
Length 2.4 diam.
1.05 length of aperture 0.75 mm.
 5 whorls.
Fig.
14.
 Odostomia  stearnsiella.
Fig.
1.
 Odostomia paidbartschi.
Fig.
16.
 Odostomia pupu.
Odostomia fEvalinaj waikikiensis n. sp.
Fig.
17.
Waikiki Oahu.
Type No.
117624 coll.
by Pilsbry 1913.
The shell is oblongconic white.
Nuclear whorls subglobose uptilted half immersed.
The next two whorls appear to be smooth except for some fine vertical .striation.
Last three whorls have sculpture of numerous very Ioav axial folds crossed by rather coarse impressed lines of which there are 15 on the penult whorl.
On the last whorl the axial folds Aveaken as they approach the periphery and do not pass upon the base.
The whorls are rather convex the suture deeply impressed.
The aperture is ovate.
There is a small immersed columellar fold visible in an oblique view but not in front.
Length 2.8 diam.
1 mm. length of aperture 0.8 mm.
 5 postnuclear whorls.
1917.
321 Odostomia Evalinai haleiwensis n. sp.
Fig.
19 Haleiwa Oahu.
Type and a smaller specimen No.
116546 A. N. S. P. collected by Pilsbry 1913.
Paumalu coll.
by Mrs. A. F. Letson.
The shell is imperforate oblong.
The nuclear whorls are depressed.
Axial sculpture consists of numerous extremely low plications which become still weaker on the last whorl.
These are crossed by fine impressed spiral lines of which there are about 10 on the penult whorl.
The whorls are rather convex parted by a deeply impressed almost channelled suture.
Aperture is ovate.
Columellar fold low but distinct scarcely visible in a direct front view.
Length 3 diam.
1.05 length of aperture 1 mm.
 5f whorls.
It is closely related to 0. gracilis Pse. yet much smaller in all its parts less densely striate spirally and less attenuated near the summit.
Odostomia Evalina gracilis Pease.
Fig.
is.
Odostomia gracilis Pease Amer.
Jom.
of Conch.
Vol.
Ill p. 292 PI.
24 fig.
20 Hawaii.
Pease confused two species under gracilis.
His description was evidently framed to cover both but the figure was drawn very Fig.
17.
 0.
Fig.
18.
 0.
Fig.
19. 0.
Fig.
20.
 0.
Fig.
21.waikikigracilis.
haleiwene. nematoecleda ensis.
sis.
derma.
badly from the stouter shell and I have selected this as the type fig.
18.
It is No.
19967 A. N. S. P. The surface is inconspicuously and very weakly plicate and densely striate .spirally.
The lateral outlines are distinctly convex.
23 The suture is narrowly channelled.
Length 3.85 diam.
1.45 length of aperture 1.1 mm.
Odostomia Evalina eclecta nsp.
Fig.
21.
Haena Kauai.
Type No.
117599 A. N. S. P. coll.
by W. A. and E. L. Bryan.
Paratypes in Bryan coll.
Also from Oahu at Paumalu and Honolulu Harbor W. A. and E. L. Bryan and Kahala Mrs. A. F. Letson.
The shell is subulate slender white.
Nuclear whorl globose.
Succeeding whorls are rather convex separated by a narrowly channelled suture having axial sculpture of very low scarcely noticeable plications crossed by very numerous spiral threads which are a little unevenly spaced.
The suture is deeply impressed and crenulated by the axial folds.
The aperture is ovate oblique.
There is a low columellar fold.
Length 4.15 diam.
1.1 length of aperture 1.1 mm.
 6 postnuclear whorls.
This slender species has the contour of Turho7iilla.
It was confused by Pease with his 0. gracilis.
Some of the specimens taken at Kahala Oahu have two cinnamon bands Odostomia eclecta nematoderma n. subsp.
Fig.
20.
Waikiki beach Oahu.
Type No.
93953 A. N. S. P. The shell is turrited resembling 0. eclecta except that the form is constantly stouter tapering more rapidly.
Sculpture of crowded unequal spiral threads.
There is scarcely any trace of axial plication though there are some impressed lines.
The type is white but several smaller specimens in the lot have two cinnamon bands one at the periphery of the last whorl the other midway between that and the suture.
Length 4.2 diam.
1.2 length of aperture 1.2 mm.
 6 postembryonic whorls.
Odostomia Cyclodostomia suta n. sp.
Fig 22.
Waikiki beach near Honolulu.
Type No.
93942 A. N. S. P. collected by Frederick Stearns.
The shell is oblongconic with obtuse worn summit.
Subsequent whorls of the spire are concave in the middle with large elevated spiral cords contiguous to the suture above and below.
In the upper whorls the cords are closely pressed together across the suture.
The last whorl has three cords one subsutural another peripheral 1917.
323 and the third smaller below the periphery.
The aperture is ovate columellar fold deeply immersed.
Length 1.9 diam.
0.9 mm.
Four specimens of which the most perfect has been selected for type and figure.
The largest is more than twice the size of this one but the base and aperture are broken.
It belongs to the subgenus Cydodostomia  apparently.
Odostomia suta.
Fig.
23.
 Odostomia lelsonce.
Odostomia letsonae n. sp.
Fig.
23.
Paumalu Oahu.
Type No.
117600 A. N. S. P. collected by Mrs. A. F. Letson.
The shell is oblongconic white Nuclear whorls are worn.
The rest of thewhorls of the spire have two broad rounded contiguous spiral ridges in the upper part.
In the last whorl the ridges are more separated the lower one being narrower and median on the whorl there is also a third and smaller ridge around the axial region.
Over the whole surface there is a dense microscopic spiral striation.
The aperture is oblique the outer lip irregular.
The columella is very thick but shows no fold.
Length 2.6 diam.
1.1 length of aperture 0.85 mm.
 8 whorls.
The subgeneric position of this strongly sculptured little Odostomia is not clear to me.
In Dr. Bartsch's key it comes nearest to Cydodostomia.
It was picked from beach debris by Mrs. Letson whose work on the minute shells of this locality has brought many interesting species to light.
Odostomia Odostomia kahoolawensis n. sp.
Fig.
24.
Northern shore of Kahoolawe.
Tpe No.
116166 A. N. S. P. coll.
by Pilsbry 1913.
The shell is imperforate conic grayish white with some opaque 324  Dec white spiral bands.
The nuclear whorl is rather large moderately elevated the tip turned in.
Subsequent whorls are smooth moderately convex separated by a deeply but narrowly impressed suture.
The aperture is ovate oblique.
Columellar fold strong and sharp.
Within the outer lip there are several spiral lirse which show through the shell as white bands visible externally.
Length 1.5 diam.
0.9 length of aperture 0.75 mm.
 4 whorls.
Odostomia Odostomia loxocephala  sp.
Fig.
26.
Haena Kauai.
Type No.
117598 A. X. S. P. coll.
by W. A and E. L. Bryan.
.
The shell is conic whitish entirely smooth.
The nuclear whorl is large subglobose set excentrically at the summit.
Following whorls are moderately convex with a few white axial lines but no Fig.
24.
 Odostomia kahoolaicensis.
Fig.
25.
 Odostomia gulicki.
Fig.
2Q. Odostomia loxocephala.
striae.
The aperture is large ovate and oblique.
The strong columellar fold emerges.
Length 1.85 diam.
0.95 length of aperture 0.8 mm.
 4 whorls.
The initial whorl is more elevated than in 0. kahoolawensis.
Odostomia Odostomia gulicki n. p.
Fig.
25.
Waikiki near Honoluhi Oahu.
Type No.
93949 A. N. S. P. Also Haena Kauai Bryan.
The shell is rather thin white slowly tapering to the obtuse summit.
Initial whorl well elevated smooth.
Following whorls are rather strongly convex smooth except for very faint growthlines no microscopic .striation visible.
The suture is deeply impressed.
The aperture is oblique broadly oval.
Columellar fold weak and low.
Length 2.2 cliam.
0.85 mm.
 5 whorls in all.
This small smooth species appears to belong to the section Brack stomia.
Odostomia iNesiodostomiai prima n. sp.
Fig.
27.
Mokapu Point Oahu.
Type No.
117622 A. N. S. P. collected by W. A. and E. L. Bryan.
Paratypes in Bryan collection.
The shell is cylindricfusiform strong glossy white with a broad gray margin below the suture and a broad tawny zone in the middle of the last whorl its upper edge showing as a band above the suture on two or three whorls preceding.
Sculpture of indistinct spiral impressed lines rather widelj' spaced and a few irregular axial lines.
The nuclear whorl projects somewhat nipplelike its tip turned in.
Subsequent whorls are nearly flat parted by a narrowly but deeply cut suture.
The aperture is narrowly piriform.
The outer lip is thin and arches slightly forward.
The inner margin is covered with a heavy callous which spreads well forward.
It is straight except near the base where it passes into the narrow deeply concave columella.
Internally there is a spiral fold which does not emerge to the aperture and is visible only on breaking the shell.
Length 7.4 diam.
2.2 length of aperture 3.2 mm.
 7 whorls.
This species may be considered the type of the subgenus Nesiodostomia characterized by the straightened inner lip covered with a heavy spreading callous the columellar fold deeply immersed.
The aperture is shaped much as in Siihularia.
Odostomia Nesiodostomia secunda nsp.
Fig.
28.
Mokapu Point Oahu.
Type No.
117620 A. N. S. P. collected by Mrs. A. F. Letson.
Paratypes in Bryan collection.
The shell resembles 0. prima in form.
It is chamois colored imperfectly transparent having a wide gray sutural margin.
The surface is glossy and shows some impressed axial striae.
The last whorl descends shortly to the aperture.
Length 4.2 diam.
1.3 length of aperture 1.6 mm.
 5 post nuclear whorls.
While this is evidently adult by the descent of the suture just preceding the aperture it is much smaller in all its parts than 0. prima and quite unlike young shells of that species of the same length.
Odostomia Nesiodostomia tertia n. sp.
Fig.
29.
Paumalu Oahu.
Type No.
117621 A. N. S. P. collected by W. A. and E. L. Bryan.
The shell is aculeate the upper half of the spire attenuated lateral 326 Dec outlines distinctly concave chamois colored with a wide more grayish border below the suture and an illdefined cinnamon zone around the middle of the last whorl the base below it almost white.
The surface is glossy with weak sculpture of spiral impressed lines and slight coarse axial striae.
The summit is broken.
Remaining whorls of the spire nearly flat the last long weakly convex.
The suture is but slightly impressed and descends rather alruptly but shortly to the aperture.
The aperture is very narrowly piriform.
The outer lip arches gently forward.
The inner margin is convex covered with a spreading callous.
Columella is narrow deeply concave and very short.
Length 7.7 diam.
2.3 lenglh of aperture 3.3 mm.
 7 whorls remaining the summit broken.
Fig.
27 .Odostomia Fig.
28.
 Odostomia Fig.
29.Odostomia prima.
seciinda.
terlia.
Fig.
30. Odostomia quarto.
Odostomia Nesiodostomia quarta n. sp.
Fig.
30.
Waikiki beach Oahu.
Type No.
93927 A. N. S. P. coll.
Iy F. Stearns.
The shell is cylindrictapering smooth very glossy cinnamonrufous.
A wide subsutural margin is defined by a rather indistinct line in the color.
Outlines of the spire are barely convex nearly straight.
The nuclear whorl is large on edge hemispherical subsequent whorls are nearly flat separated by a narrowly impressed suture the last whorl tapering below.
The aperture is subpiriform.
The inner margin is straight rather heavily calloused.
Columella is very short and concave.
The outer lip arches well forward in the middle.
Length 3.4 diam.
0.9 length of aperture 1mm.
 5 postnuclear whorls.
The slender figure the narrow form of the aperture and the glossysurface give this little shell a superficial likeness to the genus Stromhiformis.
VI.
THE OSTREID.
Of the four species of Ostrea known from the islands two are apparently extinct.
The existing species are quite small oysters.
0. sandvichensis is common on stone and shell bottom in Pearl Harbor.
0. hanleyana appears to inhabit open shore and reefs.
Professor Bryanhas recorded the unsuccessful attempts to introduce eastern and Californian oysters.
It could not reasonably be expected that oysters from waters so much colder would thrive and so far as is known they have died out completely.
There is a large valve of the Virginia oyster in the Bryan collection picked out of material dredged in Honolulu Harbor probably a ballast shell.
Ostrea sandvichensis Sowerby.
PL XXI figs.
4 to 8.
1871.
Ostrea sandi'ichensis Sowerby Conch.
Icon.
Vol.
18 PI.
27 fig.
66 Sandwich Islands.
1916.
Ostrea rosacea Bryan Natural History of Hawaii p. 457 PI.
104 fig.
8.
Oahu Eastern Lech Pilsbry Ford's Island and Waipahu Bryan in Pearl Harbor fossil at the latter place.
Honolulu Harbor Bryan.
Kauai Lualualei ba.sin Milolii fossil Bryan.
Molokai Kainalu Bryan.
This fluted oyster is abundant in Pearl Harbor.
It rarely exceeds a length of 35 or 40 mm. and is usually smaller.
It varies from rounded to subtriangular in contour.
The attached valve is generally strongly plicate at the free edge.
The other valve may be strongly plicate but is often nearly smooth.
In color it varies from dull purple to pale fleshy with or without purple rays or clouds.
The nterior is whitish or olive.
There is more or less minute crenulation near the hinge.
The valves are of the same size or the lower one may project very slightly beyond the other.
The specimens growing on Trochus sandwichensis imitate the sculpture of the gastropod fig.
8 Ford's Island.
Figs.
4 and 5 are from examples taken in the Eastern Loch.
A fossil form from Ford's Island Pearl Harbor is heavier and in The Natural History of Hawaii p. 445. the average larger than sandvichensis there is rarely any trace of corrugation and the beaks are often very long.
This form may prove to be a distinct species when perfect specimens come to hand.
It may temporarily be called 0. sandvichensis margaritce PI.
21 fig.
9.
According to Bryan the native name of this oyster is pioeoe.
It is too small to be of econonic value.
Ostrea hanleyana Sowerby.
PI.
XXI fig l. 1871.
Ostrea hanleyana Sowerby Conch.
Icon.
Vol.
18 Pi.
28 fig.
72 Sandwich Islands.
Oahu Mokuoloe Island Kaneohe Bay Kuhns and Thaanum  Mokapu Point Paumalu Bryan Molokai Kainalu Bryan.
Hawaii Hilo Thaanum.
This is a rounded or oval oyster usually showing slight traces of fluting or in others this is scarcely noticeable creamy white outside white within or having vinaceous stains.
The attached valve generally projects broadly beyond the other.
The adductor scar is small shortly oval.
There is some minute crenulation of the inner edges near the beaks which are alwaj's very short.
The usual length is 35 to 60 mm.
Ostrea retusa ' Pease' Sowb.
P.
XXI fig.s.
2 3.
1871.
Ostrea retusa Pease Sowerby Conch.
Icon.
Vol.
18 PL 19 fig.
42 Sandwich Is..
1916.
Ostrea retusa Pse. Bryan Natural History of Hawaii p. 115 Pearl Harbor fossil.
Pearl Harbor Oahu Bryan Kuhns Pilsbry.
This oyster has not yet been found living the specimens being from deposits believed to be pleistocene on the shores of Pearl Harbor.
I found it in abundance in a railroad cut about onefourth mile east of Waipio where a section of the ancient oyster bed is exposed.
It has been taken by Prof and Mrs. Bryan at Waipahu and by Kuhns and Bryan on the southern border of Ford's Island.
The extinction of the species may have been due to an inflow of hot water from one of the tufa cones northward as Prof. Bryan suggests to me or possibly a heavy fall of volcanic ash was blown over Pearl Harbor and the shell fish were smothered by the turbid water.
At all events the species has not been found elsewhere in the islands either recent or fossil.
We may infer that it had been remarkably restricted in distribution for sometime previous to its extinction.
It is always a long narrow oyster.
The lower valve is frequently somewhat fluted distally though not often so much as in fig.
2.
The flat upper valve is generally smooth except for the usual rough growthlines.
Both have crenulated inner edges when young as shown in the figures but this feature is generally indistinct or lost in old shells.
The lower valve varies from having a rather deep beakcavity to none.
A large specimen measures 14 cm.
long B wide others apparently adult are 10 cm.
long.
Ostrea bryani n sp.
PI.
XX figs.
i.
2.
Waianae Oahu from an excavation about 20 ft. below the surface of a reef elevated 60 to 80 ft. above sea level.
Collected by Wm.
A. Bryan.
The shell is very large ponderous oblong extremely thick.
The more convex valve has a strong sculpture of rounded radial ridges some of which branch at the lower edge there are about 15.
Inside the beak occupies nearly half the total length.
The flat valve has a thin layer of calcareous material over most of the outside but it does not appear to be ribbed towards the distal border where it is not encrusted some coarse concentric laminae appear.
Neither valve shows any crenulation of the inner borders.
Length of flat valve 210 width 140 mm.
Weight of both valves 5 lbs.
9 oz.
This huge oyster differs from 0. hyotis by its thick shell long beaks and far smaller corrugations.
The associated shells are recent species so that the deposit is probably pleistocene.
VII.
VARIOUS GASTROPODS AND PELEOYPODS.
Strombus hawaiensis n. sp.
PI.
XXII figs i 2.
Pearl and Hermes Reef.
Type collected by Lt. W. H. Munter.
Kauai at Haena and Milolii Oahu at Paumalu and Waianae and INIolokai at Moomumi all collected by W. A. and E. L. Bryan.
The shell is turrited speckled or mottled and on the back of the expanded lip banded with white.
The last 4 or 5 whorls are angular midway between sutures on the spire and at the shoulder of the last whorl.
The earlier whorls are rounded.
Nucleus smooth three following whorls having many low narrow axial folds crossed by spiral threads on the subsequent whorls the folds weaken above the angle and become nodular upon it the slope above the angle becomes concave.
On the last two whorls the axial folds disappear and the nodules become stronger.
The spiral cords on the last whorl are strong and subequal below the nodules weak above them.
A lump precedes the anterior sinus of the outer lip.
The lip expands and is produced 330 Dec upward in a long straight process as in S. aratrum.
The aperture is white within striate especially above and below the strise being weaker in the middle.
The thick outer lip is tinged with brown at the edge.
The callous of the inner lip and ventral face is white with a faint brown tint on the convexity but no chestnut blotch.
Other characters about as in S. aratrum.
Length 75 diam.
about 41 mm.
 10 whorls.
While this shell has much in common with Strombus aratrum Martyn it differs in color of the aperture and ventral callous and in the far stronger spiral sculpture.
It appears to be widely spread in the islands but is nowhere common.
Phasianella variabilis Pease.
Fig.
.31.
 In a peculiar colorvariety of this species which may be called mutation trizonalis the pattern is reduced to three spiral bands.
Fig.
31.
 Phasianella variabilis mut.
trizonalis.
Fig.
32.
 Nerifina hryance.
It is from Kailua Hawaii collection.
Illustrated in fig.
31 from the Brvan Neritina bryanae n. sp.
Fig.
.32.
Paumalu Oahu.
Type No.
117631 A. N. S. P. coll.
by W. A. and E. L. Bryan.
Paratypes in Bryan collection.
The shell is very small semiglobose polished pale gray having four principal spiral bands of oblong opaque white spots and two zones composed of fine reddish longitudinal lines.
The spire is very short whorls about 2.
The aperture is very oblique.
The callous is not extensive bluish or grayish white.
Columellar edge straight having two or three teeth and notches barely indicated.
In profile view a strong tooth may be seen at the upper third of the columellar edge.
The operculum is unknown.
Length 2.1 diam.
2.2 mm.
1917.
331 Tellina Arcopagia elizabethae n. sp.
PI.
XXII fig.
8.
Flint Island coll.
by C. D. Voy.
Type No.
80253 A. N. 8.
P. Also Haena Kauai W. A. and E. L. Bryan.
Hilo Hawaii D. Thaanum.
The shell resembles T. scobinata L. but differs by the somewhat more produced beaks the slopes in front and behind them straight and inclined to form a smaller angle.
The basal margin is less deeply curved.
The posterior angle of the right valve is more prominent and there is a broad concave depression before it.
The scales of the surface are about half as large as in T. scobinata much lower and thicker being lengthened granules rather than scales in the lower parts of the valves.
Between the scales there are fine concentric striae as in the other species as in that also the scales are noticeFig.
33.
 Surface of Tellina scobinata X 3.
Fig.
34.
 Surface of T. elizabethce X 3. ably larger in the right valve than in the left.
The right valve is slightly larger projecting above the left.
The shell is white wath a few rays of irregular cinnamon spots which photograph abnormally dark.
The interior does not differ materially from T. scobinata.
Length 60 alt.
57 diam.
27 mm.
Comparative views of the sculpture of T. scobinata fig.
33 and T. elizabethce fig.
34 are from corresponding parts of the right valves of each.
Two valves from Haena are 61 and 81 mm.
long.
The specimen from Hilo is young 32 mm.
long.
At this stage the processes of the .surface are more scale like.
This species was recorded from Flint Island under the name T. scobinata in these Proceedings for 1905 p. 292.
Its distinctness from that species was brought to my attention by Mrs. Bryan for whom it is named.
It has been compared with a long series of T. scohinata from the Loochoo Islands various East Indian localities and the Fiiis.
V A section Scutarcopagia with T. scohinata as type may be formed for the Arcopagiae having scaly or granose sculpture.
Tellina exculta hawaiensis n. subsp.
Honolulu Harbor Oahu Bryan.
Midway Isl. Mrs. D. Morrison.
Ocean Island Capt.
J. H. Brown.
Differs from typical T. exculta bj having the threadlike striae of both valves continuous over the posterior end not interrupted in front of the posterior ridge and weakened behind it as in exculta.
The posterior end is also a little wider.
Length 48.3 height 20.3 diam.
10.5 mm.
Codakia thaanumi n. sp.
PI.
XXII fig.
9.
Hilo Hawaii.
Type No.
1 15958 A. N. S. P. collected by Mr. D. Thaanum.
The shell is subcircular rather convex the diameter over half the height white.
Sculpture of unequal rounded radial ribs.
On the anterior slope these ribs are narrower than their intervals on the median segment they are decidedly wider and at the posterior end they abruptly become much smaller.
There are 38 ribs exclusive of the fine posterior group.
Over all there are fine obtuse subregular concentric threads and a number of impressions denoting growtharrest.
The beaks are moderately prominent.
The lunule is cordiform small and rather deeply impressed.
The interior is white tinted with sulphur yellow at the adductor scars the toothplate and pallial line straw yellow.
It has either very few or rather numerous punctures hi the cavity.
Teeth are substantially as in C. punctata L..
Length 53 alt.
52.5 diam.
28.3 mm.
This handsome clam is somewhat related to C. punctata L from which it differs by the greater convexity and by the stronger narrower ribs.
It is also relatively higher with more prominent beaks.
Some specimens have the whole interior sulphur yellow.
Explanation of Plates XX XXI XXII.
Plate XX.
Ostrea hryani n. sp.
External and internal views of the valves of the holotype.
Plate XXI.
 Fig.
1.
Ostrea hanleyana Sowerby.
Mokuoloe Island Kaneohe Bay.
Figs.
2 3.
 Ostrea retusa Sowerby.
East of Waipio Oahu.
Two views of the same specimen a lower valve growing upon an upper.
Figs.
4 5.
 Ostrea sandnchensis Sowerby.
Eastern Loch of Pearl Harbor No.
116680.
Figs.
6 7.
 Oslrea sandvichensis.
External and internal views of a specimen from Ford's Island.
Fig.
8.
 Ostrea sandvichensis growing on Trochus sandwichensis.
Ford's Island Pearl Harbor.
Fig.
9.
 Ostrea sandvichensis margaritoe.
Ford's Island Pearl Harbor.
Plate XXII.
 Figs.
1 2.
Sirombus hawaiensis n. sp.
Two views of the type.
Pearl and Hermes Reef.
Fig.
3.
 Turbonilla vitiensis clavus n. subsp.
iu Is.
Fig.
4. Turbonilla vitiensis n. sp.
Viti Is.
Xo.
20046 A. X. S. P. Figs.
5 6 7.
 Turbonilla varicosa A.
Ad.
Honolulu.
Fig.
8.
 Teliina elizabethce n. sp.
Flint Island.
Fig.
9.
 Codakia thaanumi n. sp.
Hilo Hawaii.
