ON MOSCHITES VERRUCOSA Verrill AND ITS ALLIES.
BY S. STILLMAN BERRY.
Striking instances of anomalous distribution of Cephalopoda are not frequently encountered during a perusal of the literature especially among the less active bottomloving forms most of which so far as known are prone to inhabit each its own definitely circumscribed district or faunal area.
It therefore becomes of especial nnportance to subject such apparent exceptions as we do find to the most careful scrutiny to ascertain whether they really exist and then if they seem so to do to discover a reason.
One of the most interesting and frequently quoted cases of this sort is that of Verrill's Moschites   Eledone verrucosa originally described from 466810 fathoms off the coast of southern New England again reported from considerably deeper water off Delaware Bay and since recorded from 630 fathoms off the Kermadec Islands and from 1020 fathoms in the Gulf of Panama by Hoyle 1886 1904.
So far as we know now the Atlantic records for verrucosa are unimpeachable and in any case they fail to offer such zoogeographic peculiarities that they need concern us here.
That the case with the Pacific citations is altogether otherwise it is the aim of the present paper to show.
The first of these is based upon a single male specimen taken by the Challenger ExpecUtion in 1874 reported upon by Hoyle in 1886 and now preserved in the British Museum Natural History at South Kensington.
Though Hoyle's remarks are brief 1886 p. 104 they show that he fully appreciated not only the specimen but the peculiar interest which his identification gave to it.
He wrote under  Eledone verrucosa as follows The agreement between the Challenger specimen and the admirable drawings and description of Professor Verrill is so close that there can be no doubt as to the correctness of this identification.
The only differences appear to be that in the American specimens the cirri round and alove the eyes are a little more prominent than in that from the Pacific while the latter has the extremity of the hectocotylized arm formed like that of an Octopus rather than like that of an Eledone as shown in Verrill's figure.
The Challenger specimen moreover has the second pair of arms the longest the first come next while the third and fourth are subequal and still a little shorter but as appears from Verrill's measurements loc.
cit.
 these proportions are liable to variation.
The point of greatest interest in connection with this specimen is its capture so far away from the original habitat of the species but this as will appear in the sequel is not without parallel see p.
223.
Believing that Hoyle's own notes more particularly the observations on the hectocotylus are a selfevident disproof of his identification I recently 1916 p. 49 expressed my dissent from his conclusions and proposed the name Moschites chaUe7igeri for the Kermadcc Island species.
By way of more completely establishing the point in question I have obtained photographs both of the type specimen of Eledone verrucosa Verrill in the Museum of Comparative Zoology and of the Challenger specimen which is now the type of M. challengeri. From these it would appear that wiile the general f acies of the two species is indeed quite similar the differences between them are none the less well marked.
At the time the Challenger report was written the great importance of the hectocotylus in classification was not so fully realized as at the present time but reliance need not be had upon this alone.
The curious stellate tubercles which occur scattered over the dorsal surface of both forms and which undoubtedly furnished the principal cause for their confusion are in the case of M. challengeri much more numerous more closely placed and have a more general distribution over the body than in the Atlantic species.
Where with M. verrucosa one counts but 13 or 14 of these tubercles in a line running transversely across the middle of the back in the Kermadec species there are easily twice as many and where in verrucosa the tubercles extend only slightly past the boundary between the head and umbrella see Verrill's second figure leaving most of the outer surface of the arms and umbrella smooth in M. challengeri the tubercles extend down over the entire upper portion of the umbrella and even well out upon the basal portions of the arms.
I think there is no doubt that a direct comparison of the specimens themselves would reveal other and doubtless more farreaching differences but those 1 For the photographs of Eledone rerrueosa I am indebted to Mr. Samuel Henshaw of the Museum of Comparative Zoology for those of M. challengeri to Mr. G. C. Robson of the British Museum Natural History South Kensington.
enumerated above should be sufficient to prevent a further confusion of the species.
Miss A. L. Massy has suggested in correspondence that M. challengeri may be identical with the M. charcoti Joubin of the Antarctic but in the absence of better evidence than that afforded by the literature I am unable to arrive at the same conclusion. The remaining Pacific record of verrucosa Hoyle 1904 p. 21 is admitted as doubtful by Hoyle because of the inadequate preservation of his material so I am sure can on a priori grounds be rejected without hesitation.
Quite possibly the specimens represent an undescribed species.
In any case M. verrucosa must now be eliminated from our lists of the Pacific fauna.
Omitting from consideration the Antarctic members of the genus several of which possess stellate tubercles somewhat resembling those of the species described we arrive at the following summary of this group of Moschites as it has appeared in the literature to date 1.
Moschites verrucosa Verrill 1881.
PI.
I.
1881.
Ehdone verrucosa Verrill Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. v. 8 p. 105 pis.
o 6.
1881a.
Eledonc verrucosa Verrill Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci. v. .5 p. 380 pl..
52 5.3.
1882.
Eledone verrucosa Verrill.
Rep. U. S. Fish Com.
1879 pp.
393 435 183 225 pi.
44 figs.
3 3a.
1884.
Eledone verrucosa Verrill Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci. v. 6 p. 248.
4661255 fathoms New England region Blake Fish Hawk Albatross.
2.
Moschites challengeri Berry 1916.
PI.
II.
1886.
Eledone verrucosa Hoyle Challenger Rep. p. 104 not of Verrill 1881.
1915.
Eledone verrucosa Oliver Trans.
N. Z.
Inst. v. 47 p. 559 merely noted.
1916.
Moschites challengeri Berry Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. v. 68 p. 49.
630 fathoms off the Kermadec Islands Challenger.
3.
Moschites species .
1904.
Moschites verrucosa Hovle Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. v. 43 p. 21 not of Verrill 1881.
1020 fathoms.
Gulf of Panama Albatross .
The foregoing history well illustrates how much more apt to lead to erroneous theories of distribution and how much more difficult finally to rectify is the improper union of species than if we have  As this paper is in final proof I am informed that Miss Massy has just published some fuither observations on this group in her report on the Cephalopoda of the Terra Nova Expedition though the paper itself has been delayed in reaching me.
It was in deference to this that consideration of the Antarctic forms was omitted from the present paper 1917.1 Fig.
l.Moschites verrucosa.
Distal portion of right third arm of type showing hectocotylus enlarged about four diameters.
Fig.
2.
 Moschites challengeri.
Distal portion of right third of arm of type showing hectocotylus enlarged about two diameters.
but the two evils to choose from their undue separation in the first place.
With specimens from widely separated geographical areas the presumption is that greater knowledge will generally increase rather than diminish the dependable differences.
Literature Cited.
BtRRY S. S. 1916.
Cephalopoda of the Kermadec Islands.
Proceedings Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia v. 68 pp.
4566 text figs.
122 pis.
69 March 1916.
HoYLE W. E. 1886.
Report on the Cephalopoda collected by H. M. S. Challenger during the years 187376.
Voyage of the Challenger v. 16 pt.
44 pp.
ivi 1246 pis.
133 10 text figs and map 1886.
  1904.
Reports on the dredging operations off the west coast of Central America .... carried on by the U. S. Fish Commis.sion Steamer Albatross etc.
Reports on the Cephalopoda.
Bulletin Museum Comparative Zoology v. 43 pp.
171 7 figs in text pis.
112 March 1904.
JouBiN Loxjis.
1906.
Cephaiopodes.
Documents scientificjues.
Expedition Antarctique Frangaise 19031905 pp.
112 text figs.
13 pi.
1 Paris December 1906.
Olivek W. R. B.
1915.
The Moliusca of the Kermadec Islands.
Transactions New Zealand Institute v. 47 pp.
509568 pis.
912 July 1915.
YiERRiLL A. E. 1881.
Reports on the results of dredging .... by the  Blake etc.
X.
Report on the cephalopods and on some additional species dredged by the IT.
S. Fish Commission Steamer Fish Hawk during the season of 1880.
Bulletin Museum Comparative Zoology v. 8 pp.
99116 pis.
18 March 1881.
 1881a.
The Cephalopods of the northeastern coast of Ameiica.
Part II.
The smaller Cephalopods including the Sqiuds and the Octopi with other allied forms.
Transactions Connecticut Academy v. 5 pp.
259446 pis.
2650 June 1880December 1881.
 1882.
Report on the cephalopods of the northeastern coast of America.
Report II.
S. Commissioner Fish and Fisheries 1879 pp.
211455 1245 pis.
146 Washington 1882.
 ' 1884.
Second catalogue of Moliusca recently added to the fauna of the New England coast and the adjacent parts of the Atlantic consisting mostly of deepsea species with notes on others previously recorded.
Transactions Connecticut Academy v. 6 pp.
139294 pis.
2832 AprilJuly 1884.
Explanation of Plates I and II.
Plate I.
 Moschites verrucosa Verrill.
Dorsal view of type specimen approximately natural size.
Plate II.
 Moschites chaUengeri Berry.
Dorsal view of type specimen a little less than f natural size.
NOTES ON SALAMANDERS.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER AND EMMETT REID DUNN.
All annotated list of the tailed amphibians contained in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is given in this paper.
In some cases pertinent notes and remarks are added and in the Plethodontidse as now understood some taxonomic relations are suggested and one new species is described from western Pennsylvania.
AMPHIUMID.
Amphiuma means Garden.
Thirteen examples six without data others from South Carolina Dr. J. E. Holbrook Georgia Dr. Jones and Mobile Alabama Dr. Nott.
All have two toes.
Amphiuma tridactyla Fitzinger.
Four examples without data all threetoed.
Also one labelled 'Colorado Springs Tatnall.
SIRENID.
Siren lacertina LinnS.
Nineteen examples four without data and others from Alton Illinois Savannah Georgia Dr. Egghng Alabama Pecos Dr. A. E. Brown and San Diego W. Taylor Texas Volusia and Argo Pasco County Florida.
Pseudobranchus striatus Le Conte.
Four from Georgia Major Le Conte and Dr. W. L. Jones.
Five from Argo Pasco County Florida G. Pine.
PROTEID.
Proteus anguineus Laurenti.
Five from Adelsberg Dr. H. H. Smith and Dr. Folz Styria Capt.
McClellan Carniola M. Van Schraiber and Ulyria.
Also five without locality C. L. Bonaparte.
Proteus anguineus var.
carrarae Fitzinger.
One without locality Bonaparte.
Necturus maculosus Rafinesque.
Ten without data and fifteen from New York and Ithaca Dr. A. E. Brown Essington J. T. Gardiner on March 2 1900 and Indiana R. W. Wehrle Pennsylvania Ohio J. Speakman Wabash River Indiana Dr. Blackwood and A. C. Hill  Michigan and Portage Lake Mr. Hoopes and W. E. Dickinson and Lansing.
Necturus punctatus Gibbes.
One from Ogden South Carohna.
Possibly its characters maybe due to growth.
CRYETOBRANOHID.
Megalobatrachus maximus Schlegel.
Two large examples from Japan.
Cryptobranchus alleganiensis Daudin.
Fortytwo examples sixteen without data from Pennsylvania Pittsburgh Beaver Two Lick Creek Yellow Creek and Newton Hamilton Maryland Allegany County Tennessee Knoxville.
The Knoxville material four examples shows the hind toes free as in our regular series.
As Cope had but one example we do not admit C. fuscus Holbrook to specific rank.
AMBYSTOMID.
Ambystoma tigrinum Green.
Plate III.
Salamandra ingens Green Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. VI pt.
2 1830 p. 254.
In freshwater stream near New Orleans.
No.
1309 A. N. S. P. type.
Siredon lichenoides Baird Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1852 p. 68.
Lake at head of the Santa Fe Creek in New Mexico.
Nos.
1375 and 1376 A. N. S. P. topotypes.
Col.
Abert.
Ambystoma nebulosum Hallowell Rep. Exped.
Zun.
Sitgreaves 1853 p. 143 PI.
20.
San Francisco Mountain New Mexicb.
No.
1294 A. N. S. P. type.
Dr. S. W.
Woodhouse.
Ambystoma bicolor Hallowell Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1857 p. 215.
Beesley's Point New Jersey.
No.
10584 A. N. S. P. type.
A large series of examples all ages from New York Long Island New Jersey Nesco Beesley's Point and Crosswicks Georgia Texas Staked Plain north of Staked Plain and south of Clarendon Mexico Lakes Chalco and Xochimilco and Sierra Madre near Colonia Goreia in Chihuahua New Mexico Sapello Canyon in San Miguel County and Santa Fe Oklahoma Fort Supply and North Fork of Canadian River Ohio Columbus Michigan Kalamazoo and Ann Arbor Wisconsin Kansas Fort Harker Platte River 300 miles from Fort Riley and Fort Washakee  Colorado Colorado Springs Wyoming Bridger Pass and Como Montana Yellowstone Park California McCloud River and spring at 1500 feet elevation in Coast Range of Humboldt County.
Also examples from Pou Creek and Rocky Mountains besides others without data.
No 1300 A. N. S. P. may be type 
of Ambystoma maculata Hallowell New Mexico Dr. McClelland.
As the allied Lingucelapsus Cope has been merged with Ambystoma it is also likely that the intermediate Chondrotus Cope is also a sjnonym.
This salamander is extremely variable in color.
The newly developed axalotl is largely dark brownish above from nearly uniform to finely speckled dotted spotted or marbled with darker.
Some examples show the upper surface largely of uniform tint though with a number of rather large dusky to blackish spots on the sides and fewer on the tail second figure from bottom.
The lower surface of the axalotl is uniform brownishyellow.
The yellow spots then appear and with complete metamorphosis are often quite pronounced.
Sometimes the yellowish predominates and the darker brownish becomes black or the dark color may be of greatest extent.
As the yellowish predominates it often leaves the darker color as narrow reticulating irregular lines fourth figure from bottom.
Often along the sides the reticulations may form numerous crowded rounded spots or blotches frequently variable in size.
On the back they are usually not so crowded.
As the dark color predominates usually the yellow is restricted rather narrow and regular transverse bands uppermost figure.
Sometimes some examples appear to retain the dusky blotches of the axalotl along with the yellow and dusky markings of the adult second figure from bottom.
We have not seen examples uniform brown above yellow below sides darker brown as mentioned by Cope. A Mexican example from near Colonia Goreia is remarkable for having a few yellow spots above and but a few along the sides the dark color greatly predominating.
Ambystoma punctatum Linn.
Fortyone examples New Hampshire Franconian Notch in White Mountains  Rhode Island Slocum New York West Chester County and Racquette Lake Pennsylvania Philadelphia York County Ardmore Clifton Indiana and Chambersburg  North Carolina Mitchell County Kentucky Mammoth Cave Ohio Indiana Hanover College Illinois Chicago Missouri Lake Superior.
Ambystoma opacum Gravenhorst.
Salamandra fasciata Green Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. I 1818 p. 350.
No locality.
Nos.
1420 to l423 A. N. S. P. types.
Twentyeight examples  Massachusetts Berkshire Hills 
 New York Catskills New Jersey Medford Staffords Forge Hanimon1 Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
34 1889 p. 71. ton Atlantic City Beesley's Point Delaware Newark Virginia North Carolina Lake Waccamaw  Tennessee Raleigh Indiana Hanover College Georgia Louisiana Texas Wichita River.
Six examples represent the material from Lake Waccamaw obtained in 1908.
This is the only record for North Carohna.
The Catskills example is small and uniform in color.
Ambystoma talpoideum Holbrook.
One from Henderson County North Carolina.
The hind foot has two tubercles on the sole.
Ambystoma conspersum Cope.
Amhl'jstomn conspersum Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1859 p. 123.
Londongrove Chester County Pennsylvania.
No.
10589 A. N. S. P. type.
Also four other examples South Carolina Charleston and Georgia.
Ambystoma jefFersonianum Green.
One example in very poor condition from near Philadelphia received from Dr. E. Hallowell.
Seven from Brookville Indiana E. Hughes.
Ambystoma jefFersonianum fuscum Hallowell.
Ambystoma fuscum Hallowell Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 2 III January 1858 p. 355.
Indiana near Hanover College.
No.
1379 A. N. S. P. type.Prof.
King.
Ambystoma jefFersonianum platineum Cope.
Amblystoma platineum Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1867 p. 198.
Cleveland Ohio.
No.
1299 A. N. S. P. type.
Dr. J. P.
Kirtland.
This is a much more slender form than the preceding otherwise and in its color appearing much the same.
The appressed toes of the hind and fore limbs meet.
Ambystoma jefFersonianum laterale Hallowell.
Ambystoma laterale Hallowell I.e. p. 352.
Borders of Lake Superior.
No.
1377 A. N. S. P. type.
Dr.
Le Conte.
An example from the Green collection received through Dr. Bache and like the type in poor preservation.
Ambystoma macrodactylum Baird.
Five examples from Hatzic British Columbia Dr. Bodington.
Dr. Ruthven says A. stejnegeri is with little doubt most nearly related to A. macrodactylum.
It may easily be told from the latter by the longer and more compressed tail.
The anterior digits also appear to be larger in macroclactylum.
In the specimens of the 2 Proc.
V. S. Nat.
Mus. 1912 pp.
517519. latter examined the distance from the wrist to the tip of the longest finger is contained in the length of the head and body 12.6 to 12.7 times as compared with 9.27 9.7 10 and 10.6 times in A.
stejnegeri.
Our specimens of the present species show the same measurements as about 8 or 9.
Possibly A. macrodactylum A. epixanthum and A. stejnegeri may represent simply variations of one wideranging species.
Also an example in the collection from La Grande in Union County Oregon M. Hebard and J.
A. G. Rehn on August 15 1910.
Ambystoma altamirani Duges.
Amhlydoma altamirani Duge' La Naturaleza 2 II 1896 p. 459 PI.
li.
A 3100 metros de altura  en la serramla de las Cruces perteneciente al Valle de Mexico.
Nos.
10562 and 10563 A. N. S. P. topotypes.
These examples both in the axalotl stage larger nearly transformed gills gone and mouth in the larval stage.
Ambystoma epixanthum Cope.
Aitihhjsloma epixanthum Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1883 p. 16.
8wamp near the head of the South Boise PLiver on the south .side of the Sawtooth Mountain Range Idaho.
Nos.
3880 to 3883 A. N. 8.
P. types.
Ambystoma tenebrosum Baird and Girard.
Five examples from Body Bay and Felton California.
Ambystoma microstomum Cope.
Amblystoma microstomum Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1861. p. 123.
Ohio  Wabash River Indiana.
No.
1285 A. N. S. P. tyi.
Wabash River Indiana.
Dr.
McMurtrie.
Nine examples Ohio Columbus Missouri St. Louis Texas Houston and Dallas.
Two examples from St. Louis show two or three costal spaces in one case two on each side and three or four in the other between the fore and hind limbs when appressed to the sides.
The Columbus specimen has about three on one side and four on the other.
A specimen without locality has but a single costal space and of small size.
The type contains about two or three .spaces so far as may be determined as it is soft.
In most of the examples probably three costal spaces would be the average.
As the type locality appears wrongly quoted the following is explanatory.
The original account says ''another specimen of an Amblystoma on the table from Ohio Mr.
Cope observed had been regarded as belonging to the Sal.
porphyritica of Green.
Prof. Baird having shown that that species is the S. salmonea of Storer or Pseudotriton salmoneus Baird he would call the Ohio .species Amblystoma microstomum.
This refers to a description  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1856 p. 8. of Ambijstoma porphyriticufn Hallowell which Hallowell wrongly confused with Salamandra porphyritica Green.
Now Hallowell's material is based on One specimen in Mus.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc presented by Dr. McMurtrie and Prof. Green's specimens were found in French Creek near Meadville Crawford County Pennsylvania. 
As we have the McMurtrie example labelled Wabash River Indiana' we assume Ohio mentioned in 1861 to be erroneous.
PLETHODONTID..
The present state of our knowledge of the genera of this family will not permit us to advance any new rules though Moore in abolishing the family Desmognathidse renders it imperative that the generic relationships be revised.
The value of the characters which can be used must always remain more or less doubtful.
Sometimes the same character in one group may not be of the same value in limiting the genera as in another.
Nevertheless it appears to us that the boletoid tongue characterizes a very natural group i.e. Spelerpes and allied genera.
All the species of this group of genera display that tendency towards opisthoccelous vertebrae which led Cope to place Thorius in the Desmognathidse.
Most if not all have an acjuatic larval stage in some cases as Spelerpes ruber and Gyrinophilus porphyriticus of long duration.
Separate premaxillaries compel us to place G. porphyriticus and Geotriton fuscus at the bottom of the list.
These forms are generically separated by the very doubtful character of webbed toes in Geotriton Spelerpes follows Gyrinophilus both with free toes Manculus with only four toes Edipus and Edipina with webbed and united digits respectively and Thorius with webbed toes and extremely large nostrils.
It may be here stated that the young of Geotriton fuscus also have extremel' large nostrils.
Probably further studies may reduce some of the above to subgenera and even create a new subgenus for Spelerpes ruber which seems sufficiently distinct from S. longicaudus the type of the genus.
Manculus Oedipus and CEdipina may be derived from Spelerpes which in turn may be derived from Gyrinophilus probably through Spelerpes ruber.
The direct relations of Thorius and Geotriton are less certain but that they are closely allied is unquestionable.
Next to the freetongued group would come Stereochilus a littleknown form which in color and dentition approaches Spelerpes ruber.
The tongue is more free than in any of the other remaining genera.
The cranial structure is comparatively unknown.
Cope's statement that it lacks the premaxillary fontanel and that in the only skeleton I have examined the prefrontal is present one side and wanting on the other would bring it near Leurognathus.
The next group Desmognathiis and Leurognathus agree in the absence of prefrontals poorly developed vomerine teeth and in a peculiar collar on the atlas where the temporal muscles originate.
But the absence of a premaxillary fontanel in Leurognathus and the presence of welldeveloped vomerine teeth in some male and all female Desmognathiis prevent us dividing one genus from the other.
All the preceding genera have typically aquatic larvae.
Desmognathus seems to tend towards terrestrialism in that one species lays eggs on land and the aquatic larva of another is unknown and may not exist.
Typhlotriton and Autodax stand between this group and the Plethodon group but there is some uncertainty as to the actual relations.
Both have prefrontals and one premaxillary with a fontanel.
Autodax is a Pacificcoast form with absolutely terrestrial existence.
Typlotriton is a blind cave form from Missouri with an aquatic larval stage.
In both the vertebrae become opisthocoelous with age.
Both according to Cope have the temporals originating on the atlas.
Typhlotriton whose cranial structure Ave recently examined has not the transverse dorsal ridge on the atlas which characterizes Desmognathiis and Leurognathus.
Whether Autodax has it is not known but the tendency of the temporal muscles to originate on the atlas is accentuated in these forms as Cope pointed out.
Geographical probabilities and life histories suggest Typhlotriton as next of kin while the hooked jaw of the most terrestrial species of Desmognathus ochrophea would indicate Autodax.
The next group is Plethodon and its two derivatives Hemidactylium in the east and Batrachoseps in the west is so far as known entirely terrestrial.
The vertebrae appear to remain amphicoelous throughout life.
Plethodon with two premaxillaries stands at the ase.
Hemidactylium differs in the loss of a toe Batrachoseps in the loss of prefrontals the consolidation of the premaxillaries and the loss of a toe.
Heptoglossa known only from one specimen has the tongue attached the toes webbed and opisthocfielous vertebrae.
Beyond this it is unknown.
Probably it should stand betweenPlethodon and Autodax.
Typhlomolge is a permanent larva of some plethodont.
More cannot be said of its relation other than its affinities are more likely at the aquatic Spelerpes end of the series rather than at the terrestrial Plethodon end.
14 Jan. There are several examples of independent and parallel evolution in these genera.
The most obvious is the loss of a toe which has been undoubtedly independent in the three reduced genera.
.
The loss of the prefrontal in Batrachoseps and the Desmognathus group is another case.
The consolidation of the premaxillaries has probably been independent likewise the acquiring of terrestrial habitat.
A scheme is here added followed by a key to the genera which may show more clearly the relationships as understood by us.
No aquatic larval stage An aquatic larval stage 1 1 Leurognathus . cu7s. No premaxillary fontanel ' Balrac hoseps Desmognathus  Temporal muscles at tach to atlas '.
Geotriton 1 No prefrontal 5 toes 4 toes   Autodax bUnd TypMotrifon
 1 Thon OSdipina T CEdipus J us 1 iiemaxiilary 5 toes iSpelerpes Manculus 4 toes Pleth Hemida 1 odon dylium Haptoglossaf blind permanent larva Typhlomolge
Gyrinophilus 2 premaxillaries 5 toes 4 toes Never opisthocoelous Old animals opisthocoelous Tongue attached Tongue free Key to the genera.
a.
 Permanent larvae blind Tyyhhmolge aa.
 Larva not permanent develop eyed adults.
b.
 Tongue free.
c.  Premaxillaries two Geotriton d.  Toes 5 webbed Gyrinophilus dd.
 Toes 5 free.
cc.
 Premaxillary single.
e.  Toes 5 free ..Spelerpes ee.
 Toes 5 webbed.
.
 Nostrils small QUdipus ff.
 Nostrils large Thorius eee.
 Toes 5 fused '.
Qdipina eeee.
 Toes 4  Manculus hh.
 Tongue not free.
.
 No premaxillary fontanel.
g.  Vomerine teeth present  StereocMlus gg.
 No vomerine teeth Leurognathus ff.
 Premaxillary fontanel present.
h.  Toes 5. i.
 No prefrontal Desmognathus a.
 Prefrontal present.
j.
 One premaxillary.
k.  Blind Typhlotriton kk.
 Eyes functional Autodax jj.
 Two premaxillaries.
I.
 Toes fused 
Heptoglossa II.
 Toes free Plethodon hh. Toes 4. m.  Prefrontal present Hemidactylium vim.
 No prefrontal Batrachoseps  It seems useful to add a few remarks on the larvae of some members of the present as well as allied families.
Ambystoma larvae have the dorsal finfold extending forward to the head.
The larvae of the various species of the same genus seem difficult to separate and are rare in collections as with the exception of the western species they remain larvae only a few months.
 The larvae of Diemictylus are according to Banta and McAtee maculate at an early age have a dark line through the eye and when of fair size show the red lateral spots.
 In many cases the larvEe of species of the Plethodontidce are unknown and larvae have been seen which could not be identified.
The species in the northeast present no great difficulties.
The  B. G. Smith Bull.
Wiscon.
N. Hist.
Soc IX April 1911 pp.
1427 6 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXX 1906 pp.
6783. following tentative key of the genera Plethodon Hemidactylium Desmognathus Gijrinophilus and Sjjelerpes follows with the reservation that so far as known the first two do not have aquatic larvae.
a.
 Gills unpigmented presenting a glistening white appearance legs stout Desfnognathus fusca aa.
 Gills pigmented legs slim.
h.  Dorsal surface lighter than sides.
c.  Dorsal surface immaculate save slight pigmentation along median line a black lateral band Spelerpes longicaudus cc.
 Median dorsal surface immaculate a lateral row of dark spots S. bislineatus 66. Back and sides alike.
d. Head short  S. ruber dd.
 Head long Gyrinophilus porphyriticus D. fusca length of largest larva 44 mm.
 smallest adult 27 mm.
S.
longicaudics    42    49.5  S. bislineatus    70    47  S. ruber    110    74  G.porphyriticus    100      S. ruber and G. porphyriticus are seldom met with in the same locality.
The final color pattern of the plethodont salamanders is the result of the gathering of pigment on the sides of three rows of unpigmented spots.
These spots vary with the species in number size and date.
In D. fusca the dorsal series is quite large and the two series are confluent at an early age and form the light dorsal area so characteristic of the young of that species.
In S.
longicaudus at 30 mm.
smallest larva seen the dorsal areas have merged along the back and the pigment forms a definite lateral line.
At this stage the lateral spots are not noticeable.
In S. bislineatus at the earliest stage 17 mm.
the dorsal areas are very noticeable and the others are not evident.
Up to the age of about a year 30 mm.
the dorsal areas retain their shape.
As they break up the lateral areas appear and these sometimes last after transformation.
The dorsal areas attract pigment which forms the lateral line at transformation.
Until transformation however this line is much broken and very irregular more resemliling a chain than a band.
This difference as a chain and a band connected with the lightness of the dorsal surface serves to differentiate between this species and S. longicaudus.
Furthermore 8. longicaudus has a shorter development than S. bislineatus as it is a oneyear instead of a twoyear species.
In examples of the same size 30 to 40 mm.
the dorsal areas have completely disappeared in S. longicaudus while they are still quite distinct in S. bislineatus.
The dorsal region of S. longicaudus has only a faint stripe down the median line.
The larvae of S. bislineatus have the dorsal region either uniform or darker towards the sides.
In S. ruber the dorsal series is formed of a few very small areas and is only distinct in smaller larvae 40 mm..
This forms no part in the development of the colorpattern.
The lateral series is of many small areas which form a dotted line down the side of the larva.
It disappears before transformation and also plays no part in the formation of the adult pattern or rather the early disappearance of the larval series is responsible for the lack of pattern in S. ruber.
The same may be said of G. porphyriticus and D.quadrimaculata .
It is interesting to note in this connection that the pattern of D. ochrophea is certainly the result of the development of the dorsal areas from their insignificance in D. quadrimaculata their late coalescence in D. monticola their early coalescence in D. fusca to a coalescence in D. ochrophcea which takes place so early that even in the smallest examples seen no trace of it has been observed.
This suggests the absence of an aquatic larval stage and indeed D. ochrophcEa is the most terrestrial of the species of Desfnognathus.
The color pattern of the redback stage of the entirely terrestrial Plethodon erythronotus is almost exactly like that of D. ochrophcea.
The cinereus phase is certainly not to be explained in the same way and the coloration of the species of Plethodon presents a different problem.
It has been stated that the dark pigment underlies the red in P. erythronotus.
Now the bleachment and the color pigment usually red or yellow in Spelerpes and Desmognathus are distinct the black pattern being the result of the change in the larval areas already referred to while the color pigment appears at transformation and usually is not localized.
A possible suggestion of the coloration in the genus Plethodon is that the dark color is uniformly over the animal and the color pigment is localized or in scattered spots.
Thus there would seem to be no trace in Plethodon of the influence of any larval areas on the coloration which would be correlated with the apparent absence of any aquatic larval stage.
In order to make clear the relations of several recently described species and a new species of Plethodon described later on in these pages the analysis below is given.
Species marked f are restricted to the southern AUeghanies and those marked  are northeastern in distribution.
Key to Eastern Plethodotitidce.
a.
 Tongue free in front.
6.
 Toes 5. c.  A line from eye to nostril.
d. Line from eye to nostril black and ight...Gyrinophilus danielsi dd.
 Line from eye to nostril light only G. porphyriticus cc.
 Xo line from eye to nostril.
e.  Tail short color red Spelerpes ruber and allied forms ee.
 Tail long.
  Color orange tail spotted S. maculicaudus ff.
 Color yellow.
g.  Tail barred S. longicaudus gg.
 Tail banded.
h.  Two lateral stripes but no dorsal stripe S. hisUneatus hh.
 Two lateral stripes and a dorsal stripe S. guttolineatus 66. Toes 4. i.
 Yellow with dark lateral stnpe...Mancidus quadridigitatus ii.
 Black M. reniifer aa.
 Tongue not free in front.
j.
 Toes 5. k.  Internal nostrils very inconspicuous and twice as far apart as external nostiih.. Lewognathus marmoratus kk.
 Internal nostrils conspicuous about far apart as external nostrils.
.
 Light line from eye to angle of jaw.
711.
 Tail keeled.
n.  Belly plain black Desmognathus quadrimaculata nn.
 Belly plain light D. monticola 7inn.
 Belly mottled lighter D. fusca nnnn. Belly mottled dark D. fusca auriculata 7nm.
 Tail cylindrical.
0.
 Belly light D. ochrophwa 00.
 Belly dark D. caroli7iensis II.
 No light line from eye to angle of jaw.
p.  Vomerine and parasphenoid series of teeth continuous Stereochilus 7narginatus pp.
 Vomerine and parasphenoid series of teeth not continuous.
q.
 Body color uniform plumbeous.
r.  Legs red Plethodo7i sherma7ii' rr.
 A yellow stripe from eye to gular fold P. jorda7ii rrr.
 No marldngs.
.s.
 Belly plaincolored.
t.  Costal grooves 14 P. 77ietcalfi tt.
 Costal grooves 17 P. wehrlei ss.
 Belly mottled costal grooves 19 P. erythroTiotus qq.
 Body color not uniform plumbeous.
u.
 Costal grooves 19 red stripe down back P. erytkronotus uu.
 Costal grooves 14 numerous white spots present P. ghdinosus uuu.
 Costal grooves 13 a yellowishgreen network P. mneus jj.
 Toes 4 Hemidactylium scutatum Typhlomolge ratlibuni Stejneger.
Three from an artesian well 152 feet deep at San Marcos in Hays County Texas Dr. H. A. Pilsbry in 1903.
Geotriton fuscus Bonaparte.
Four from Piedmont and Italy.
Gyrinophilus danielsi Blatchley.
Four from North Carolina Roan Mountain Tennessee Roan Mountain and Georgia.
This species has divided premaxillaries and seems to be representative of the genus Gyrinophilus in the southern Alleghanies rather than a Spelerpes as so located originally by Blatchley.
It differs from G. porphyriiicus in that its color is.
lighter and finely dotted with darker while in G. porpkyriticus the color is more uniformly marbled.
Also there is a black line as well as a light line from eye to nostril in G. danielsi while in G. porphyriiicus the dark line is obscured in the general dark color of the head.
Gyrinophilus porphyriticus.
Thirteen examples Chenango County and central New York Pennsylvania near Philadelphia Round Island Altoona  Warren County Indiana Port Allegany Maryland Jennings.
Spelerpes ruber Daudin.
Pseudolriton flavissimus Hallowell Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 18.56 p. 130.
Liberty County Georgia.
No.
576 A. N. S. P. type.
Major Le Conte.
A very large series of all ages New York Staten Island New Jersey Camden Staffords Forge and Cape May County at Petticoat Bridge and Crooked Creek  Pennsylvania Philadelphia Fairmount Park Germantown Holmesburg Naylor's Run Gladwyne Devon Woodbourne Monocacy Chester County Round Island Diamond Valley Newton Hamilton Brush Mountain in Blair County Pine Grove in Cumberland Count' and Pine Creek in Indiana County Delaware Wilmington Maryland Jennings Bacon Hill Bohemia Manor Elk Neck Ohio North Carolina Cranberry and Henderson County Tennessee Sawyer's Springs Alabama Auburn.
The variation in this species is wide and excessive and we find all degrees in the vomerine dentition from extremely obtuse to quite acute and from widely separated to fairly close together.
The color varies from rather light or clear and with small welldefined widely scattered spots to almost unicolor in which spots have run together somewhat to very thickly welldefined prominent large spots covering the whole upper surface.
A larva from Roan Mountain Tennessee of uncertain determination differs in the presence of a narrow dark vertebral line.
The example from Henderson County North Carolina has a long tail and lacks the black spot on the head.
The specimen from Auburn Alabama in common with the type of P. flavissimus and the Henderson County specimen all have the series of teeth very closely approximated in the median line.
Further they have very small scattered spots.
The Alabama specimen has the back covered by a dark groundcolor not caused by spots running together.
In this it thus differs from the dark color of the usual old of ruber where the spots are very numerous and crowded together.
No specimen which could be classed as S. montanus or S. schencki are in the collection.
From the descriptions schencki appears a rather local race of ruber.
S. montanus appears to be a different matter.
Our only approach to the dentition described for montanus is found in the tjpe of P. flavissimus and the two other specimens last mentioned.
No approach to the color of montanus has been seen in our material.
In this connection the junior author has examined the types of montanus and schencki in Washington.
Spelerpes maculicaudus Cope.
GyrinophUus maculicaudus Cope Amer.
Nat. XXIV 1890 p. 966 fig.
Brookville Indiana.
Nos.
10579 to 10581 A. N. S. P. types.
A. W.
Butler.
Also an example from Mammoth Cave Kentucky S. N. Rhoads.
Spelerpes longicaudus Green.
Thirty examples New Jersey Atlantic City and White Pond Pennsylvania Wissahickon Brandywine Summit Valley Forge Lancaster County Cresson Huntingdon Round Island Ohiopyle Newton Hamilton Indiana Two Licks Creek Two Licks Hills Altoona Maryland Jennings Virginia Giles County Georgia.
Spelerpes bislineatus Green.
Salamandra bislineata Green Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. I 1818 p. 352.
No locality.
Nos.
695 to 698 A. N. S. P. types.
Dr.
Bache.
Also a large series of all ages Massachusetts Nantucket and Berkshire Hills New York Casanova and Catskills New Jersey Morris County Swartswood Lake Atlantic City and White Pond  Pennsylvania Philadelphia Germantown Holmesburg GladwjTie Falls of Schuylkill INIonocacy Brandy wine Summit Dingmans Ferry Newton Hamilton Brooklyn Port Allegany Maryland Jennings and Bacon Hill North Carolina Roan Mountain Black Mountain Henderson County and Cranberry Tennessee Roan Mountain.
Spelerpes melanopleurus Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1893 p. 383.
RUey's Creek one of the head tributaries of the White River southwest ISIissouri.
Nos.
10456 to 10460 A. N. S. P.
types.
Spelerpes multiplicatus Cope.
Four examples from Little Rock Arkansas.
Dr. A. E. Brown.
Spelerpes guttolineatus Holbrook.
Salamandra gutlolineata Holbrooli N. Amer.
Herp. Ed.
2 V 1842 p. 29 PI.
7.
Greenville CaroUna.
Nos.
716 and 717 types.
Also thirtythree examples from Henderson County North Carolina and Mobile Alabama.
Spelerpes belli Gray.
Seven examples from Mexico Jalapa Zacualtipan and Mex.
Cientif.
Com.
1885.
Edipus variegatus Gray.
Geotriion carbonarius Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1860 p. 373.
No locahty.
Nos.
503 and 504 A. N. S. P. types.
Jalapa Mexico.
Also another example labelled Mexico.
Thorius pennatribus Cope.
Amer.
Nat. 1869 p. 222.
Mexico.
No.
1269 A. N. S. P. cotype
Orizaba Mexico.
Another labelled Mexico Duges.
Edipina lineolus Cope.
Spelerpes lineolus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1865 p. 197.
Table Land of Mexico.
No.
735 A. N. S. P. type.
Manculus quadridigitatus Holbrook.
Salarnandra quadridigitata Holbrook I.e. p. 65 PI.
21.
Middle section of our State Georgia and Florida.
No.
490 A. N. S. P. tj'pe.
South CaroUna.
Also thirteen examples Georgia Thomasville and Florida Enterprise.
Stereochilus marginatus Hallowell.
Pseudotriton uiaryinatus Hallowell Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1856 p. 130.
Liberty County Georgia.
No.
514 A. N. S. P. type.
Major Le Conte.
Leurognathus marmoratus Moore.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 316 PI.
14 figs.
46 10.
In a large clear rocky pool beneath a waterfall of a stream on the south flank of Grandfather Mountain North Carolina and at an elevation of about 3500 feet.
No.
19610 A. N. S. P. paratype.
Another example obtained at the same locality by Mr. S. N. Rhoads was wrongly determined by him as Desmognathus nigral 6 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1895 p. 400.
Desmognathus quadrimaculata Holbrook.
Seventeen examples Pennsylvania Virginia Giles County North Carolina Henderson County  Tennessee Doe Run on Roan Mountain.
Of this series two specimens without locality.
Desmognathus brimleyorum Stejneger.
One from Little Rock Arkansas Dr. A. E. Brown in 1902.
Desmognathus fusoa Rafinesque.
A very large series New Brunswick St. Johns River Massachusetts Berkshire Hills New York Haines Falls in Catskills New Jersey Swartswood Lake Morristown Trenton Big Timber Creek Clement's Bridge Pennsville Salem  Delaware Brandywine Creek and Greenville Maryland Dove Run Jennings Piney Creek and Conowingo Alabama Auburn Tennessee Walden Ridge  Indiana Hanover College .
The very large Pennsylvania series from the following counties Allegheny Pittsburgh Berks Monocacy Blair Altoona Bucks Langhorne Chester Clinton Tamarack Swamp Delaware Naylor's Run Wawa and Whetstone Run Green  Waynesburg  Indiana Brick Pond Indiana Marsh Run Lucus Pond Saltgiver Run Two Lick Creek and Two Lick Hills Juniata Tuscarora Lancaster Paradise and Peters Creek Lehigh Lehigh Gap McKean Port Allegany Mifflin Newton Hamilton and Sugar Valley Run Montgomery Devon Gladwyne Mill Creek Overbrook opposite Lafayette Northampton Belfast Perry Fox Hollow Potter Brooklyn and Seven Bridges Philadelphia Schuylkill River Fairmount Park Olney Frankford Holmesburg La Grange Bustleton Susquehanna Broad Top Mountain Warren White Pond and York Peach Bottom.
Desmognathus fusoa auriculata Holbrook.
Twentytwo examples North Carolina Lake Waccamaw South Carolina Manning Georgia Florida Miami.
Three specimens are without data.
Desmognathus ochrophaea Cope.
A large series New Brunswick St. Johns River New York Clinton County Haines Falls Catskills Pennsylvania Tamarack Swamp in Clinton County Indiana Two Lick Creek and Two Lick Hills in Indiana County Ganoga and Harvey Lakes in Luzerne County Port Allegany in McKean County Brooklyn Gold and Seven Bridges in Potter County Eagles Mere in Sullivan County Broad Top Mountain in Susquehanna County Warren in Warren County Maryland Jennings and Garrett County The further study of the allied species of Desmognathus fusca has convinced us that this species is valid contrary to the views set forth by AUen and later by Fowler. Typhlotriton spelaeus Stejneger.
Three from Marble Cave in Missouri E. D. Cope in 1893.
Autodax lugubris Hallowell.
Salamandra lugubris Hallowell Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1848 p. 126 Monterey California.
No.
1257 A. N. S. P. type.
Dr.
Townsend.
Also twelve other examples from California San Francisco Santa Barbara and San Jose eight of which without localit Autodax iecanus Cope.
Plcthodon iecanus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1883 p. 24.
Near the United States fishhatching establishment on the McCloud River in Shasta County California.
No.
14061 A. N. S. P. paratype.
Plethodon metcalfi Brimley.
Thirteen specimens collected by Mr. Rhoads on Roan IMountain at 4000 to 5000 feet elevation in Tennessee.
They were wrongly identified as Amhystotna jeffersonianum. We refer them to the present species as Mr. Brimley states in his description that the dentition is like that of Plethodon glutinosus.
In our specimens the vomerines extend beyond the nares as they do in P. glutinosus while in Brimley 's figure they are shown just reaching the nares.
The dentition of our examples is intermediate between that of P. glutinosus and the species from Pennsylvania we describe as new.
The vomerine series are larger in the Roan Mountain specimens than in the Pennsylvania form but shorter than in P. glutinosus.
Costal grooves 14 or 15 Plethodon wehrlei sp.
nov.
Plate IV.
Dentition about as in P. glutinosus.
No white spots on back or color markings of any kind and belly lighter than in P. glutinosus.
Toes webbed at base.
Body more slender than that of P. glutinosus and with 17 costal grooves.
Vomerine series of teeth scarcely arched extending anteriorly beyond the nares internally far apart and scarcely would cross line drawn forward from outside edge of parasphenoid series.
They contain but 8 teeth.
The series are shorter than in P. glutinosus not ' Proc.
Boston Sac.
N.
Hist. XXIX 1901 p. 73.
8 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1906 pp.
356357 PL 13.
9 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1895 p. 402.
10 Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wn.sh. XXV 1912 p. 138 PL 6.
Sunburst Haywood County North Carolina.
extending so far inward and contain fewer teeth.
Parasphenoids in an incompletely divided patch as in P. glutinosus.
Costal grooves 17 counting axillary and inguinal.
Appressed limbs fail to meet by 4 interspaces compared with 3 in P. glutinosus.
The whole form of the body is much more slender or slimmer than that of P. glutinosus the tail longer and the head and body cylindrical throughout.
Toes webbed and with 2 joints free.
Color bluishplumbeous above and unmarked.
Below brownishplumbeous occasionally with a few small white spots along midlateral line where dark dorsal color fades into lighter ventral color.
Legs colored like body.
Throat lighter than the belly and mottled with white.
Type No.
19123 A. N. S. P. Adult female 138 mm.
long.
Two Lick Hills Indiana County Pennsylvania.
September 1911.
R. W. Wehrle.
Also paratypes all A. N. S. P. as follows No.
4799 Tuscarora Juniata County Pennsylvania September 1896 S. N. Rhoads No.
17231 Port Allegany McKean County Pennsylvania June 9 1906 T. D. Keim and Henry W. Fowler No.
19066 Indiana Indiana County Pennsylvania fall 1908 R. W. Wehrle Nos.
19114 and 19115 Two Lick Hills Indiana County Pennsylvania September 1911 R. W. Wehrle Nos.
19118 and 19124 same data as last.
This new salamander appears to be closely related to P metcalfi Brimley except that it is slimmer and with more costal grooves.
It is probably a northern offshoot of that form.
Further it appears isolated and with the present state of our knowledge necessary to admit it as distinct.
Quite remarkable is the fact that it should have remained so long unnoticed or confused with P. glutinosus.
The maximum length of our examples is 139 mm. and the minimum length 44 mm.
Named for Mr. R. W. Wehrle who collected most of our examples and also presented many local collections of coldblooded vertebrates to the Academy.
Plethodon erythronotus Green.
Salamandra erythronota Green Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. I 1818 p. 356.
New Jersey.
Nos.
1227 to 1238 A. K S. P. types of this and the following.
Dr.
Bache.
Salamandra cinerea Green I.e. New Jersey.
A very large series of both color phases examined from  Quebec Lac Aux Sables Massachusetts Nantucket New Jersey Sussex County Swartswood Lake Cedar Lake in Warren County Bordentown Cape May Dias Creek and Higbee's Beach Delaware Brandywine Creek between Du Fonts and Rockland Greenville Newark and Seaford Maryland Bohemia Manor Chestertown The Rocks Willards Jennings North Carolina French Broad River Tennessee Rock Creek Roan Mountain and Bellevue Missouri Chadwick Arkansas Roger and Magazine Mountain.
Very many from the following counties in Fennsylvania Berks Monocacy Bucks Woodbourne and Langhorne Delaware Cobbs Creek Chester Heights Langford's Run Wawa Chadds Ford Fayette Ohiopyle Luzerne Ganoga Lake McKean Port Allegany Indiana Indiana Two Lick Creek and Besnham Run Monroe Saylor's Lake and Bartonville Montgomery Valley Forge Gladwyne Centerville and Devon Philadelphia Wissahickon Creek Fairmount Park Philadelphia Germantown Frankford Holmesburg Rowlands La Grange Pike Dingmans Ferry Potter Gold and York York Furnace.
Plethodon glutinosus Green.
A large series from  New York Casanova  New Jersey Kingwood and Swartswood Lake Pennsylvania Broad Top Mountain at Altoona New Hope Ohiopyle Diamond Valley Indiana County at Two Lick Hills Two Lick Creek Burnhamer Run and Indiana Bartonville Pike County Eagles Mere Franklin Warren and York Furnace Maryland Jennings South Carolina Georgia Chickamauga Alabama Uniontown Ohio Tennessee Chattanooga Raleigh Sawyers Spring Murfreesboro Samburg at Reelfoot Lake and Knoxville Missouri Chadwick Arkansas Blue Mountain Station Petit Jean Mountain and Magazine Mountain.
Plethodon aeneus Cope.
Am.
Nat. XV 1881 p. 878.
Nickajack Cave Tennessee.
No.
10461 A. N. S. P. type.
Also three examples from Sawyer's Spring Tennessee S. N.. Rhoads on May 29 1895.
The type shows the parasphenoid with an imperfect median division as teeth occur at several intervals in the line of division.
In the largest example from Sawyer's Spring the parasphenoid patch is complete and the smallest specimen is 31.5 mm.
long.
Plethodon intermedius Baird.
One from Willamette Valley Oregon 0.
B. Johnson.
Plethodon crassulus Cope.
Two without locality E. D. Cope.
Plethodon oregonensis Girard.
Six examples from California Sausalito and Russian River.
Three also from the Northwest Exploring Expedition.
Hemidactylium scutatum Schlegel.
Thirteen from  New Jersey Cape May and Swartswood Lake  Pennsylvania Fallsington  Indiana Brookville  Illinois Chicago .
Batrachoseps attenuatus Eschscholtz.
Fifty examples from California Russian River Oakland San Francisco Santa Cruz and Santa Barbara.
There is considerable variation in this series.
Specimens from San Francisco and Santa Barbara are smaller and darker than specimens from the Russian River and Oakland.
The proportions seem about the same though the tails are longer in the Oakland lot than in any of the others.
Batrachoseps pacificus Cope is said by Van Denburgh to be restricted to the islands off the coast and thus Santa Barbara is not the type locality as he points out very clearly.
Our two specimens from Santa Barbara though in rather poor condition are certain
 not this form agreeing best with B. attenuatus.
A specimen from Pasadena California H. N. Rust represents B. major Camp.
The legs are stouter than in any of our large series of B. attenuatus.
There is also no trace of the lateral stripe usually so prominent in that species.
Batrachoseps nigriventris Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1869 p. 98.
Ft. Tejon California.
Nos.
481 and 482 A. N. S. P. types Dr. G. H.
Horn.
We cannot see that these two specimens differ in any way from small and dark examples of B. attenuatus.
The fore limb does not reach to the angle of the mouth much less nearly to the orbit and the hind limb extends over only four costal interspaces instead of six.
SALAMANDRID.
Salamandra perspicillata Savi.
Fourteen from Italy C. L. Bonaparte and four from Dalmatia.
Salamandra salamandra Linn6.
Twenty examples Europe Italy C. L. Bonaparte Taurus Mountains in Asia Minor Drs.
S. A. S. and D. G. Metheny.
Salamandra atra Laurenti.
Three from Europe. 
Proc.
Cat.
Acad.
Sci. 3 IV No.
1 1905 pp.
67.
Hemisalamandra cristata Laurenti.
One hundred and eight from German Austria Vienna France Paris Italy C. L. Bonaparte England Hampton and Middlesex.
Triturus marmoratus Latreille.
Six examples from Portugal France Nantes in Bretagne  Italy C. L. Bonaparte.
Triturus italicus Peracca.
Two from Potenzo Bosilicata.
Triturus alpestris Laurenti.
Fifty examples from Brussels in Belgium and Switzerland C. L. Bonaparte.
Triturus crocatus Cope.
Neurergus crocatus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1862 p. 343.
Oorcmiah Persia.
No.
1480 A. N. S. P. type.
M.
Amherst.
This is undoubtedly a Triturus as subsequently stated by Cope.
Triturus vulgaris Linnd.
Seventyeight examples Europe England London Italy C. L. Bonaparte.
PLEURODELID.
Diemictylus viridescens Rafinesque.
A very large series from New York Catskills Haines Creek Adirondacks and Rockaway Beach on Long Island New Jersey Lake lashipicong and Round Island in Sussex County  Delaware Newark  Maryland Oakland in Allegany County and Jennings  'irgima Franklin County North Carolina Henderson County and Cranberry South Carolina Georgia Florida Jacksonville Tennessee Samburg at Reelfoot Lake Ohio Indiana Brookville  Kentucky Mammoth Cave  Indian Territory  Wister .
Also large series from the following counties in Pennsylvania Berks Douglassville Blair Altoona Bradford Minequa Springs Cameron Emporium Carbon Mauch Chunk Chester Clinton.
Delaware Whetstone Run Fayette Ohiopyle Lehigh Lehigh Gap Luzerne Ganoga and Harvey Lakes Indiana Two Lick Hills Two Lick Creek Simpson's Run and Indiana Monroe Saylor's Lake Tunkhanna Creek and It.
Pocono Montgomery Valley Forge McKean Cole Grove and Port Allegany Northampton Hellertown Pike Rocky Hill Pond Potter Sullivan Shady Nook York York Furnace.
Diemictylus viridescens meridionalis Cope.
Four from Texas Helotis and San Diego.
Diemictylus torosus Eschscholtz.
Fortysix examples from  British Columbia Victoria and Hatzic  Washington Tacoma Oregon Willamette Valley and Astoria California Sausalito San Francisco Body Bay McCloud and Russian Rivers and Pasadena.
Diemictylus montandoni Boulenger.
Six from Brosteni Moldania.
Diemictylus palmatus Schneider.
Fortyseven from Europe France Paris England Epping Forest in Essex Italy C. L. Bonaparte.
Diemictylus rusconii Gen6.
Seven from Italy and Sardinia both C. L. Bonaparte.
Diemictylus vittatus Jenyns.
Two labelled France likely from Syria 
Diemictylus asper Duges.
Two from the Pyrenees.
Diemictylus pyrogaster Boie.
Thirtyeight from Japan.
Pleurodeles waltlii Michah.
Three from Portugal and Spain C. L Bonaparte.
Explanation of Plates III and IV.
 Plate III.
 Ambystoma tigrinum Green.
Showing extremes of variation.
All slightly reduced.
Plate IV.
 Pleihodon wehrlei Fowler and Dunn.
Type.
February 20.
Henry Skinner M.D. Sc.D. in the Chair.
Fiftysix persons present.
The Pubhcation Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication Hunting Mollusca in Utah and Idaho in 1916.
Part II by Junius Henderson and L. E. Daniels.
January 19 1917.
Notes on the anatoni' of Oreohelix.
II by Henry A. Pilsbry.
January 19.
The reproductive organs of Epiphragmophora callistoderma  bj' Henry A. Pilsbry.
January 19.
The anatomy of an Eolid Chiorgera daUi  b Harold Heath.
February 8.
Mollusca of the Southwestern States.
VIII The Black Range New Iexico by H. A. Pilsbry and J. H. Ferris.
February 12.
Notes on fishes from New Jersey Pennsylvania and IMaryland  by Henry W. Fowler.
February 21.
A second collection of fishes from the Panama Canal Zone by Henry W. Fowler.
February 21.
The deaths of Edwin A. Barber December 12 1916 and of Andrew C Craig Jr. January 18 1917 members were announced.
The death of H Emile Sauvage a correspondent January 1917 was also announced.
On the unanimous nomination of the Committee on the Hayclen Iemorial Geological Award and with the approval of the Council the gold Hayden Memorial Medal was conferred on William Morris Davis Ph.D. Emeritus Professor of Geology in Harvard University in recognition of his distinguished work in geological science.
William Morris Davis was born in Philadelphia on February 12 1850.
He was educated at Harvard University where he received the degree of B.S.
in 1869.
He received the honorary degree of Sc.D.
at the University of Cape of Good Hope at Cape Town in 1905 the degree of Ph.D. at the University of Greifswald in 1906 and the same degree at Christiana in 1911.
He is a Chevalier de la Legion d'Honneur.
Dr. Davis has conducted many geological investigations and in his work has travelled widely in the United States and foreign countries.
His published writings show a remarkable versatility and diversity in scientific interest for he has become prominent not only in pure geology but in geography meteorology and other allied subjects.
His early geological efforts were devoted largely to structural geology as seen in his work in Montana in 1883 and his later work on the Triassic Formation of Connecticut published by the United States Geological Survey.
Such researches led him into physiographic geology which he aptly describes as the relation of structure process and stage in determining surface form and from physiographic geology he branched out into physical geography which in later years has occupied much of his time and in which he is recognized as one of the foremost authorities in the world.
His conception of the relation of geology and geography is clearly brought out in his presidential address to the Geological Society of America 191112.
In the meantime however he had not confined himself altogether to geology and geography.
He was assistant at the Argentine National Observatory Cordoba Argentina from 1870 to 1873 while later on at Harvard University he taught at different times geology meteorology and geography.
At Harvard he was successively Assistant 18767 Instructor 187885 Assistant Professor 188590 Professor of Physical Geography 189099 SturgisHooper Professor of Geology 18991912 and Professor Emeritus 1912 to the present time.
Notwithstanding his many years of teaching at Harvard University he found time to travel widely and write numerous scientific books and papers.
In 187778 he toured the world in scientific study in 1903 he was a member of Pumpelly's Carnegie Institution Expedition to Turkestan in 1895 he visited South Africa as the guest of the British Association for the Advancement of Science.
He was Visiting Professor at the University of Berlin in 19089 and at the University of Paris in 191112.
Among some of the most important contributions of Dr. Davis to science are his work in structural geology in Montana and Connecticut already mentioned his work on the evolution of form and drainage as seen in his studies of the River Valleys of Pennsylvania in 1889 the River Valleys of Northern New Jersey in 1889 the Grand Canyon in 1890 and the Seine Meuse Moselle in 1896 his work on the nature of mountain forms as seen in his studies of the Great Basin Ranges in 1903 and in the Turkestan Expedition in 1904.
Glacial geology the nature of arid regions in America and Africa volcanoes and coral reefs are also subjects on which Dr. Davis has spent much time and thought and published numerous papers.
Thus the total contributions of Dr. Davis to science cover a wide field.
His numerous textbooks relate to various geological and allied subjects and are widely used his many papers memoirs and other contributions to scientific literature include a remarkably broad range of subjects in geology geography meteorology and allied sciences.
Mrs. Arthur R. Iliff made a communication on the Taos Indians of New Mexico finely illustrated by photographs taken by herself.
No abstract.
Ezra Allen was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed
