A NEW CHARACIN FROM PARAGUAY BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Recently the Academy received a small collection from Senor A.
De W. Bertoni secured at Puerto Bertoni Paraguay.
As this contains several interesting fishes  Otocinclus vittatus Regan Parodon paraguayensis Eigenmann Phalloceros caudimaculatus Hensel and the Characin belonging to the Tetragonopterinae described below this note has been prepared.
The Academy is indebted to Senor Bertoni for these interesting gifts to its Museum.
BERTONIOLUS gen. nov.
Type Bertoniolus paraguayensis sp.
nov. Preventral region evenly convex.
Maxillary slips below preorbital or only about half its upper edge shielded.
Upper teeth 5 each side in inner row as in Moenkhausia and outer series in row parallel.
Mandibular teeth uniserial.
Upper lip covers premaxillary teeth.
Gillrakers lanceolate.
All scales cycloid.
Predorsal scales uniform in size.
Preventral with normal scales.
Anal with rather broad basal scaly sheath its entire length.
Caudal base covered with large scales.
Lateral line complete slightly decurved parallel with rows of scales below.
Allied to Moenkhausia Eigenmann and Markiana Eigemnann.
From the former it is distinguished by the second suborbital in contact mth the preopercle below a point in agreement with Knodus.
It differs from Knodus in the 5 teeth each side in the inner upper row a character in agreement with Moenkhausia.
Markiana Eigenmann somewhat resembles it but the anal is more scaly and its unequal short lobed caudal is quite different.
In Bryconamericus the caudal scales are small not large as in this genus.
One species in the Parama basin.
For Senor A.
De W. Bertoni the accomplished naturalist of Peurto Bertoni Paraguay.
Bertoniolus paraguayensis sp.
nov. Head 3 depth 2f  D. ii 9 A. ii 27 P. i 11 V. i 7 scales 43 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 3 more on latter 9 scales above 1.
1. and 10 below about 17 predorsal scales head width 2 in its length head depth over eye center 1 snout 3 eye oh maxillary 21 interorbital 142 May 2 first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 2j upper caudal lobe 1 pectoral 1 ventral If.
Body elongately ovoid in contour deepest at dorsal origin lower profile more evenly convex in front than upper and well compressed.
Predorsal with very slight median ridge otherwise body edges convex.
Caudal peduncle compressed about long as deep.
Head moderate upper profile slightly concave and lower little more inclined and convex.
Snout convex short length half its width.
Eye rounded hind pupil edge little before center in head length.
Mouth moderate horizontal and closed jaws about even.
ip viVL5
i Lips rather tough and upper firm lower broadly free.
Teeth alike in jaws upper biserial with 8 outside and 10 inside former shorter and tridentate and latter quindentate.
Lower jaw with 8 large mostly quindentate teeth and third one each side from front shghtly enlarged.
Apparently no maxillary teeth.
Inner buccal folds thin moderate.
Maxillary slender slightly oblique from vertical extends little below eye and expansion about 3 in eye.
Tongue with free edges elongate smooth.
Mandible moderately deep or rami little elevated in mouth.
Nostrils together close to upper front eye edge.
Interorbital convex.
Suborbitals broad and lowest infraorbital entirely covers cheek.
Preopercle edge entire.
Suborbitals and opercle each with marginal obsolete striai.
Gillopening forward to front eye edge.
Rakers 10  10 lanceolate slender about f of filaments and latter 2 in eye.
Pseudobranehiie about half of gillfilaments.
Isthmus slender.
Scales cycloid rather narrowly imbricated in lengthwise rows parallel with 1.
1. and become slightly smaller along ventral edge.
Caudal with broad basal scaly area also whole basal extent of anal.
L. 1. complete slightly decurved and each scale with short tube exposure about half of each scale exposure.
Ventral with scaly axillary flap about  length of fin.
Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and hind edge of adipose fin first branched ray longest and depressed fin half way to caudal base.
Origin of adipose fin little nearer depressed dorsal tip than caudal base adipose fin about long as eye.
Anal with long base first branched ray highest and fin edge nearly straight so anal origin nearly opposite hind dorsal edge or about midway between hind preopercle edge and caudal base.
Caudal well forked pointed lobes similar with lower slightly longer.
Pectoral low reaches slightly beyond ventral origin though not quite to that of dorsal.
Ventral inserted nearer anal than pectoral origin fin reaching latter.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol faded dull brownish generally though back slightly darker than other regions.
A pale sheen as if silver in life alongmiddle of side though narrowing on caudal peduncle side where giving place to slight dusky tint and then continued out on caudal medianly to liind edge as blackish streak.
Iris pale slaty.
Black ellipsoid spot little smaller than eye at shoulder.
Dorsal slightly tinged with dusky and fins otherwise pale.
Length 97 mm.
Type No.
47 686 A. N. S. P. Puerto Bertoni Paraguay.
Senor A.
De W. Bertoni.
Only the type known quite distinct from the allied species of Bnjconamericus and Markiana etc.
The dentition shown to the left below in the accompanying figure is enlarged a little over twice that of the indicated line of proportion for the profile drawing.
ON A COLLECTION OF OKTHOPTERA FROM THE STATE OF PARA BRAZIL.
iBY JAMES A. G. REHN.
The present study is based on material collected at two localities in the State of Para and all of which is now in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
The localities represented are Igarapeassii and the vicinity of the city of Para.
The former locality is about one hundred and twenty miles east of the city of Para off the main line of the railroad between Para and Branganga and in primaeval forest conditions. The material from this locality was secured by Mr. H. S. Parish of Toronto Canada while that from the vicinity of Para was taken by Prof. C. F. Baker while attached to the Museu Goeldi at Para.
Portions of both series have already been recorded by the present author in connection with studies of other series of Brazihan material a total of fortyeight previously known and seven new species having been reported from the series now completely studied.
These figures are not included in the totals here given.
In the present paper are discussed one hundred and nine species representing seventyone genera of which twentytwo species and two genera are described as new.
The number of specimens represented is four hundred and twentyone.
DERMAPTERA.
FORFICULID.
Doru lineare EschschoUz.
1822.
Forficula linearis Eschscholtz Entomogr. p. 81.
Santa Catharina Brazil.
Igarapeassii.
One female.
ORTHOPTERA.
BLATTID.
Ectobiinse.
Anaplecta replicata Saussure and Zehntner.
1893.
Anapleda replicata Saussure and Zehntner Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. I p. 25 pi.
IV fig.
12.
Pernambuco Brazil.
1 The general features of this region have been entertainingly described by Dr. Emilie Snethlage Director of the Museu Goeldi in a recent number of the Geographical Review IV pp.
41 to 50 1917.
2 The Stanford Expedition to Brazil 1911 J. C. Branner Director.
Dermaptera and Orthoptera I. Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLII pp.
215 to 308 1916.
The Stanford Expedition to Brazil 1911 J. C. Branner Director.
Orthoptera II.
Ibid. XLIII pp.
89 to 154 1917.
Igarapeassu.
Three males.
These specimens fully agree with the description of the species.
The status of three unquestionably related forms i. e. lateralis Burmeister minutissima DeGeer and pumila Stal we are compelled to leave in abeyance for the present although it is quite probable that one at least is the same as the present species.
The original descriptions are so brief that little other than the general relationship of the species can be ascertained from them and the desired more detailed information can only be gleaned from the types or topotypic material.
Anaplecta bivittata Bnmner.
1865.
Anaplecta bivittata Brunner Nouv.
Syst.
Blatt. p. 63.
Brazil.
Igarapeassu.
One male.
This specimen shows some points of difference from the original description but it is apparently the same species.
The head is not wholly rust color as described the interocular region of the vertex being blackish brown while the tegminal maculation does not reach the costal margin of the same but does however border the humeral trunk to the distal squarely truncate margin of the maculation.
This is apparently the first definite locality for the species.
Pseudomopinse.
Pseudomops annulicornis Burmeister.
1838.
Thyrsocera annulicornis Burmeister Handb.
der Entom. II abth.
II pt.
1 p. 500.
Bahia Brazil.
Igarapeassii.
Two males four females.
These specimens fully agree with the description of Walker's Pseudomops deceptura from an unknown locality which is considered a synonym of Burmeister 's species by Shelf ord.
The original description of annulicornis is extremely brief so little can be learned 3 We cannot agree with Shelf ord in his placing this species as a Holocompsa Trans.
Entom.
Soc.
London 1908 p. 464 from the evidence of the alleged type.
The description and figure given by DeGeer are undoubtedly of an Anaplecta and it is not at all difficult to see which species are its closest relatives.
It seems evident that Shelford did not see the material on which DeGeer based his species and ad interim the Holocompsa specimen was probably by accident associated with DeGeer's label.
DeGeer's original description says of the insect Sa couleur est d'un brun noiratre et tres luisant c'est aussi la couleur de la plaque du corcelet qui est arrondie mais dont les deux bords lateraux sont blancs  tres transparents.
This would clearly apply to an Anaplecta of the present group and certain other characters mentioned as the folding of the wings make the identification even stronger.
The redescription of the type by Shelford presents the following features comparable to those quoted above from DeGeer Head with rufous pubescence.
Pronotum fuscous with a recumbent rufous pubescence.
Tegmina with marginal area with rufous pubescence.
Further comment seems unnecessary.
from it.
In all of the specimens the head the two distal joints of the palpi the extremities of the femora and tibiae and the tarsi are black or blackish.
In no case is the usual dark transverse arcuate bar of the pronotal disk strongly marked.
The only previous records of the species are from Bahia Burmeister Para Rehn and Porto Velho Rio Madeira interior Brazil Rehn.
Pseudomops affinis Burmeister.
1838.
Thyrsocera affinis Burmeister Handb.
der Entom. II abth.
II pt.
1 p. 499.
Surinam.
Igarapeassii.
Two females.
December 1911 one.
One Cornell University.
Para and Surinam are the only localities from which the species was ireviously known.
Pseudomops angusta Walker.
1868.
Pseudomops angusta Walker Catal.
Blatt.
Brit.
Mus. p. 81.
Santarem Brazil.
Igarapeassii.
One female.
As in material already recorded by us this specimen differs from the original description in the palpi being entirely black the femora blackish dorsad and the cerci almost entirely black.
Ischnoptera crispula n. sp.
Pl.
I figs.
14.
A species showing certain affinities with the inca group on one hand and with the tnarginata castanearubiginosa group on the other.
It isapparently allied to I. hebes Walker from Santarem Brazil agreeing in the general form the small size the widely separated eyes the setose antennae the thinly pilose pronotum and tegmina and most of the color features but differing in the limbs being in large part fuscous instead of pale testaceous in the abdomen having the fourth ventral segment uniformly dark with remainder of the same surface of the abdomen instead of ''tawny as in hebes while the tegmina have the marginal field and to a lesser degree the costal margin of the tegmina pale ochraceous and sharply contrasted with the remainder of the tegmina.
The genital features of the present species are quite distinctive.
We are able to give only color differences to separate the species as all the structural features mentioned by Walker for hebes are shared by the present species but our experience with the species of this section of the genus indicates that beyond certain permissible fluctuations color features are well fixed.
An  Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soe. XLII p. 224 1916.
6 Catal.
Blatt.
Brit.
Mus. p. 122 1868.
examination of the original material of hebes will in all probability show the older species possesses characteristic genital features.
Type o  Para State of Para Brazil.
C. F.
Baker.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5316.
Size very small form moderately depressed surface moderately polished of the head pronotum tegmina and limbs with sparse but distinct erect hairs.
Head for its full width visible cephalad of the pronotum the outline of the e3'es and occiput regularly arcuate interspace between the eyes very broad equal to one and onehalf times the depth of the adjacent portion of the eye ocelli elliptical oblique in position the interspace between them subequal to that between the eyes palpi with the third joint slightlj longer than the fourth fifth appreciably longer than the third and moderately inflated excavate face obliquely truncate for the greater portion of the length of the joint antennse faintly exceeding the body in length rather sparsely but regularly setose.
Pronotum subtrapezoid in outline the greatest width which is distinctly caudad of the middle contained one and onehalf times in the greatest length of the same cephalic margin moderately arcuate rounding into the but weakly arcuate diverging lateral margins caudolateral angles well rounded caudal margin moderately arcuate all the margins distinctly though narrowly cingulate in transverse section the disk is flattened dorsad and distinctly and roundly declivent laterad surface unimpressed.
Tegmina lanceolateelliptical the greatest width contained slightly more than three times in the greatest length of the tegmen distal section surpassing apex of abdomen by nearly the dorsal length of the pronotum costal margin moderately arcuate proximad and distad sutural margin in greater portion straight distad regularly arcuate to the broad and well rounded apex which is more costal in position marginal field relatively narrow and abbreviate  anal field elongate pyrif orm reaching to twofifths the length of the tegmen discoidal vein with sixteen costal rami several of the clistal ones of which are bifurcate median vein with four rami made up by bifurcation of two main rami  ulnar vein with three to four rami the number of both median and ulnar rami very difficult to determine owing to the anastomosing of the veins in the proximal portion of the discoidal field anal sulcus regularly arcuate in proximal half straighter distad except for the short distal arcuation near the junction with the sutural margin axillary veins fourteen in number as the usually weak adventitious veins are equal in strength to the usually more pronounced principal veins.
Wings with the costal margin straight oblique proximad very gently arcuate distad with a faint flattening at the middle of the arcuation anterior field very broad broadly rounded distad intercalated triangle distinct but small costal veins eleven in number in general regularly oblique simple and nonclavate mediodiscoidal area in general faintly wider than the medioulnar area divided into moderately regular subquadrate areolse by thirteen crossveins median vein simple direct unbranched medioulnar area with similar but less numerous and more oblong areolae ulnar vein with two complete and seven incomplete rami axillary vein with two rami.
Sixth and seventh dorsal abdominal segments with the structure characteristic of Ischnoptera supraanal plate large semiovate very shallowly arcuatoemarginate mesad slightly sinuate near the cereal bases peripheral margin and its vicinity with scattered erect hairs ventral surface of the plate with a long dextral subchitinous tooth which is directed mesoventrad cerci moderately elongate fusiform depressed apex narrowly blunted subgenital plate moderately asymmetrical sinistral portion of plate arcuateemarginate ventrad of the cercus mesal portion of plate similar the area between obliquely sinuatotruncate the sinistral style situated sinistrad on the same section dextral side of the plate deeply rectangulateemarginate the dextral style situated on the apex of the rounded lobe between the median and dextral emarginations  styles short thick fusiform unequal with distal extremity arcuate aciculate margin of the plate closely haired dorsal surface of the subgenital plate having at the base of the dextral style a lamellate suberect subchitinous process the free margin of which is unequally bilobate.
Cephalic femora armed ventrocephalad with a typical Ischnoptera spine arrangement.''
General color blackish brown the trochanters ventral surface of the femora dorsal surface of the tibiae and flecks on the tarsi ochraceousbuff.
Head with the interocular region faintly reddish eyes black ocelli naples yellow.
Pronotum with the margins except for the median section of the caudal margin narrowly ferruginous.
Tegmina with the marginal field and an evanescent edging of the scapular field light ochraceous buff.
Wings infumate.
Length of body 7.6 mm.
 length of pronotum 2.3 greatest width of pronotum 3 length of tegmen 7.6 greatest width of tegmen 2.4.
The type is unique.
6 See Hebard Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLII p. 339 to 340 pis.
XVI and XVII 1916.
7 See Hebard Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XIJI p. .340 pi.
XVII fig.
1 1916.
Ischnoptera oastanea Saussure.
Pi.
I figs.
13 14.
1869.
Ischnopterd castanea Saussure Revue et Maga.sin de Zoologie 2e ser. XXI p. 112.
Brazil.
Igarapeassu.
One male.
This specimen fully agrees with the original description as far as it supplies characters derived from the female sex.
As the male genital characters have never been described the following notes on the same should prove of assistance.
Supraanal plate moderately transverse the margin broadly arcuate appreciably flattened in the middle and there very weakly bilobate cereal emargination decided regularly concave margin between apex and cereal emargination moderately arcuate surface of plate subdepressed proximolaterad with a distinct broad median impression on distal half distal portion of margin very sparsely haired ventral surface of supraanal plate with patches of short agglutinated hairs on the faint lobes of the distal margin also mesolaterad on the body of the plate while a distinct tuberculiform node is situated immediately mesad of the dextral cercus immediately mesad of the sinistral cercus there projects ventrad a heavy clawlike process which is nearly straight and robust in the proximal twothirds thence sharply bent mesad and straight acuminate from immediately ventrad of the dextral cercus springs an unpaired lamellate articulate process a portion of the internal genitalia the dorsal surface of the same bearing in proximal twothirds a carinate ridge the apical section rotated dorsad and weakly rostrate bearing five distmct teeth genital hook slender bent recurved the apex slightlj' flattened.
Subgenital plate faintly asymmetrical with dextral sinistral and median emarginations between which are short truncate projections of the margin of the plate sinistral emargination broad faintly angled mesad median emargination regular dextral emargination small but deep and rectangulate styles unequal in size and development the sinistral large straight proximad acuminate distad distal half decurved dextral style smaller regularly acuminate decurved margin of the plate and styles sparsely haired dorsal surface of the subgenital plate at base of dextral style with an erect laterad directed lamellate lobe bearing at the internal angle of the apex a distinct dentiform spine.
Ischnoptera imparata n. .sp.
Pi.
I figs.
58.
This peculiar species appears to be allied on one hand to I. castanea Saussure and on the other to I. amazonica Rehn but it can be recog8 Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLII p. 225 1916.
nized at once by its distinctive form with tegmina not surpassing the apex of the abdomen and the type of the male genitalia.
Type d Para State of Para Brazil.
C. F.
Baker.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Tje no.
5317.
Size very small form elongate elliptical surface moderately polished sparsely pilose more heavily so on the limbs.
Head exposed cephalad of the pronotum for the greater portion of its width interspace between the eyes moderately broad very faintly less than that between the ocelli which latter are ovate  antennae one and onehalf times as long as the body closely moniliform proximal joint faintly shorter than the interspace between the eyes palpi with the third joint simple the fourth elongate funnelshaped slightly shorter than the third joint fifth joint moderately inflated greatest depth at proximal third.
Pronotum weakly transverse the greatest length contained one and onethird times in the greatest width and the latter placed faintly caudad of the middle general form subtrapezoid  cephalic margin broadly subtruncate rounding laterad into the lateral margins which are moderately diverging caudad faintly arcuate on cephalic twothirds thence sharply arcuate to the obtuse caudolateral angles caudal margin arcuatotruncate  disk moderately deplanate with distinct diverging sulci narrow lateral portions distinctly deflexed.
Tegmina surpassing the apex of the abdomen by less than the length of the pronotum lanceolate costal margin moderately arcuate proximad thence nearly straight to the narrowly rounded apex which is costal in position sutural margin straight except for a short proximal section and distad rounding into the strongly oblique arcuatotruncate distal margin marginal field very narrow in length nearly equal to twofifths of the entire tegmen  anal field elongate pyriform in length equal to about onehalf of the tegminal length costal veins fourteen to fifteen in number discoidal sectors longitudinal six in number with distinct longitudinal intercalated nervures and regularly placed transverse nervures which form rectangulate interspaces anal sulcus sharply curved distad and joining the sutural margin at a right angle axillary veins closely placed with regular intercalated and cross nervures their structure merged to such an extent that a count is not warranted.
Wings falling slightly short of the apex of the tegmina when in repose greatest width contained one and twothirds times in greatest length costal margin regularly arcuate apex broadlj rotundatorectangulate peripheral margin more amply arcuate distad than usual anterior field relatively'' very broad intercalated triangle distinct but small mediastine vein straight in the greater portion of its length bearing eight costal veins remainder of costal veins seven in nmnber all nonclavate discoidal vein almost straight mediodiscoidal area broad divided by sixteen regularly placed transverse nervures into subquadrate areolets median vein arcuatosinuate  medioulnar area narrower than the mediodiscoidal area similarly divided but with veins fewer and less distinct ulnar vein with one complete ramus which is bifurcate close to its origin and three incomplete rami axillary vein biramose.
Dorsal abdominal segments of the type characteristic of Ischnoptera supraanal plate transverse lateral margins regularly converging caudad the distal margin truncate its vicinity with long sparse hairs  when viewed from the caudal aspect there is seen to be dextrad briefly mesad of the cercus a thick curved projection which points mesad and is distinctly tapering distad the whole structure well hidden under the margin cerci relative heavy rather short subequal in width for the greater portion of the length rather abruptly tapering distad depressed dorsad rounded ventrad with a close adpressed coat of short hairs and scattered erect long hairs subgenital plate moderately asymmetrical sinistral margin with a broad deep emargination ventrad of the cercus relatively short median section concavetruncate dextrad of which is a short deeply arcuate emargination with a moderate projection separating it from the oblique subtruncate and then proximad arcuate remainder of the same margin both principal emarginations with their margins somewhat thickened and the plate there appreciably convex in section between them the plate is concave distad styles unequal the sinistral one twice as large as the dextral situated at the lateral angles of the median subtruncate section incrassate tapering with the apex bispinose the distal spine larger decurved the other spine situated slightly proximad of the apex straighter when viewed from the caudal aspect the plate is seen to have an incrassate arm extending mesad from the projection of the dextral margin this arm reaching to the median line of the body supplied at the apex with long hairs and on the cephalic face with a number of spines  genital hook sinistral in position the distal portion sinuate Vshaped narrowed at the bend of the structure slightly thickened and blunt distad.
Cephalic femora with ventrocephalic margin with four large proximomesal spines these followed distad by a regular series of very short fine spines distal spines three in 9 See Hebard Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLII pp.
.339 to 340 pis.
XVI and XVII 1916.
number the extreme distal the larger median and caudal femora with ventral margins regularly and heavily spined genicular spine large caudal tarsi with metatarsus distinctly longer than the remaining joints combined ventral surface strongly biseriate pul villi small.
General color above and on the venter of the abdomen argus brown paling to antique brown on the veins distad on the tegmina.
Head deep blackish fuscous except for the mouthparts labrum and distal half of the clypeus eyes prout's brown cUstal palpal joint weakly washed with mummy browTi ocelli zinc orange antennae blackish fuscous slightly paler proximad and distad.
Pronotum with a relatively broad cephalic and lateral border of ochraceousbuff  the bounding line of the two shades appreciably sinuate laterad.
Tegmina with the general color strongest at the base of the marginal iield this in the same area sharply giving way to ochraceousbuff which passes distad into a weak shade of the general coloration distal section of the tegmina very pale as is the normally covered section of the right tegmen.
Wings weakly infuscate becoming ochraceous distad the veins similarly but more opaquely colored.
Abdomen faintly darker than the general dorsal coloration more deeply infuscate laterad the dorsal abdominal fold ochraceousbuff surrounded by deep fuscous styles deep fuscous.
Limbs ochraceousbuff coxae each with a proximal blotch of fuscous those of the cephalic coxae much smaller than those of the other limbs.
Length of body 7.3 mm.
 length of pronotum 2.4 greatest width of pronotum 2.9 length of tegmen 6.4 greatest width of tegmen 2.2.
The type is unique.
Ischnoptera clavator n. sp.
PI.
I figs.
912.
Allied to .
amazonico Rehn from northern Brazil but differing in the deeper color pattern more inflated distal palpal joint and the radically different genitalia of the male the subgenital plate of which bears a relatively large clublike appendage.
The supraanal plate of the female of clavator is distinctly Uemarginate mesad while that of amazonica is entire.
The species shows relationship to .
ruhiginosa Walker having a similarity in the form of the male .supraanal plate but clavator is a larger species with more convergent eyes a less strongly transverse pronotum more elongate tegmina and wings and decidedly different development of the subgenital plate and styles of the male.
The female of rubiginosa has the 10 Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLII p. 225 1916.
supraanal plate trigonal With the lateral margins sinuateemarginate and the apex well rounded and entire instead of Uemarginate as in clavator.
Type cf  Igarapeassii State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
lAcad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5319.
Size small form elongate elliptical strongly depressed surface glabrous.
Head distinctly projecting cephalad of the pronotum interspace between the eyes very narrow hardly more than half that between the ocellar spots which latter distance is subequal to the greatest length of one of the spots the spots are large subreniform in outline eyes with their greatest cephalic depth equal to about one and onehalf times the interocellar width antennae slightly longer than the body moderately hirsute second and third joints together about twothirds as long as the proximal joint third palpal joint of moderate length slightly arcuate fourth palpal joint twothirds as long as third slightly and evenly enlarging distad fifth palpal joint slightly longer than the third inflated sublanceolate apex subacute.
Pronotum roundly trapezoidal but moderately transverse the greatest length contained one and onehalf times in the greatest width cephalic margin weakly arcuate broadly rounding into the diverging distinctly arcuate lateral margins which pass through the obtusely rounded caudolateral angles into the arcuatotruncate caudal margin all margins finely cingulate and supphed with sparse wellspaced long hairs the cephalic margin however with a series of short hairs  disk of pronotum weakly arcuate in section appreciably declivent laterad the immediate margin slightly reflexed oblique sulci indicated but slightly irregular in impression caudal section of disk weakly depressed.
Tegmina elongate lanceolate surpassing the apex of the abdomen by nearly the length of the pronotum the width at the distal third greater than that at the proximal third costal margin straight except for a short proximal arcuation and a brief distal rounding to the apex which is at the tip of the median vein and very narrowly rounded sutural margin in general straight except at distal third where it regularly and broadly rounds to the immediate apex marginal field narrow its distal extremity not quite reaching to the proximal third of the tegmen scapular field moderately wide subequal in width anal field elongate pyriform costal veins very numerous regular in position discoidal rami longitudinal nine in number aside from the discoidal vein itself intercalated nervures regular and all connected by closely placed and generally regular transverse sectors anal sulcus impressed moderately strongly arcuate distad jointing the sutural margin faintly distad of the proximal third axillary veins and their numerous intercalated accessories regularly placed.
Wings reaching almost to the apex of the abdomen broad their greatest width contained almost t'ice in their greatest length costal margin largely straight oblique proximad gently arcuate distad the apex well rounded rectangulate and entirely in the anterior field peripheral margin of the posterior field regularly arcuate except for the frequent short bulging arcuation at the apex of the axillary vein and rami intercalated triangle very small mediastine vein largely straight oblique discoidal vein straight proximad weakly arcuate distad costal veins including the more distinct ones arising from the mediastine vein twentyone in number oblique nonclavate mediochscoidal area distinctly narrower than the medioulnar area appreciably narrowing distad with the transverse rami rather regularly placed twenty in number the majority weakly bent arcuate the areolets generally subquadrate median vein simple of much the same curve as the cUscoidal vein medioulnar area with the transverse rami less numerous than those of the mediodiscoidal area fifteen in number incomplete costad the areolets more rhomboid than quadrate ulnar vein with two complete and seven incomplete rami axillary vein with two rami cUverging slightly proximad of the middle.
Abdomen with the distodorsal segments having the structure usual in Ischnoptera supraanal plate in general subquadrate very faintly transverse distal margin bisarcuate laterad of a shallow median arcuate emargination the whole margin but particularly these arcuate portions supplied with long bristlelike hairs surface of distodorsal section of the plate with two areas of impression cerci elongate styliform acuminate depressed dorsad rounded ventrad strongly hirsute subgenital plate asymmetrical free margin sinistrad with an arcuate emargination in which is placed the sinistral style mesad with a transverse truncate section in the dextral angle of which is situated the dextral style dextrad of this is a deep acuteangulate emargination in which is visible an acute lamellate projection of the internal genitalia dextrad of this emargination and mesad of the cercus the margin develops an erect lamellate peglike process which projects dorsad of the supraanal plate when the parts are in their normal position the apex of this process is covered with erect  The presence of these areas may not be a normal condition.
agglutinated hairs certain of which appear spiniform the remainder of the margin and a large portion of the ventral surface of the plate with long hairs many of which are bristlelike sinistral style strongly arcuate the apex directed laterad and with a number of distinct but short teeth dextral style very short decurved rounded at the apex with there a number of similar short teeth.
Cephalic femora with the ventrocephalic margin bearing three mechan and three distal spines the latter group increasing in length clistad the area between the two groups with a continuous regularly spaced series of short piliform spinules no cUstodorsal genicular spine present median and caudal femora with a distinct distodorsal genicular spine ventral margins with large wellspaced spines arolia distinct caudal metatarsus faintly longer than the remaining joints combined.
Allotype 9  Same data as type.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
The following features are those of difference from the description of the type.
Interspace between the eyes wider more than twothirds as wide as that between the ocellar spots which area is nearly twice as great as the greatest length of one of the spots ocellar spots somewhat smaller and less conspicuous than in the male  eyes with their greatest depth but faintly greater than the interocellar width.
Abdomen simple supraanal plate moderately transverse arcuate the chitin with a median Vemargination which is filled with a semiopaque membranedorsal surface of the plate with a distal mediolongitudinal carinate fold the free margin of the plate with numerous long bristlelike hairs subgenital plate large distal margin arcuatetruncate between the cerci.
Cephalic femora with the median group of large spines numbering four. General tone of the dorsal surface clear dresden brown to mars brown the venter largely fuscous.
Head blackish fuscous the clypeus and mandibles ochraceousbuff ocellar spots warm buff eyes mars brown to mummy broAai antennae clove brown the proximal joint faintly ochraceous.
Pronotum with the disk blackish fuscous more or less distinctly divided in two by a mediolongitudinal line of kaiser browai to liver brown broad lateral margins a connected and narrower cephalic margin and a detached usually weaker caudal margining of warm buff to ochraceousbuff the dark disk 12 In two paratypic females this membrane is not apparent the margin being distinctly and clearly Vemarginate.
Apparently this soft area is not a permanent structure and may be due to the hardening of exuded body fluids.
1 Two paratypic females agree with the allotype in the number of these spines while the type has but three.
12 appreciably narrower at a point slightly caudad of the middle Tegmina of the general dorsal color very pale on the portion of the dextral tegmen concealed when in repose proximal section of the humeral trunk blackish fuscous marginal field pale ochraceous translucent proximad more or less suffused with the blackish fuscous of the humeral trunk.
Wings clear hyaline except for a slight infuscation of the subcoriaceous region of the costal veins  venation pencilled in prout's brown.
Dorsum of abdomen fuscous paling to bister along the median line supraanal plate of male with a russet tinge the characteristic Ischnoptera fold of the male ochraceousbuff  venter of abdomen becoming ochraceoustawny mesoproxunad.
Limbs ochraceousbuff the coxae fuscous proximad spines tawny.
Male type Length of body 12.6 mm.
 length of pronotum 3 greatest width of pronotum 3.6 length of tegmen 11.9 greatest width of tegmen 3.7.
Female allotype  Length of body 13.5 mm.
length of pronotum 3.2 greatest width of pronotum 3.7 length of tegmen 12.3 greatest width of tegmen 3.3.
In addition to the type and allotype we have examined two paratypic females taken at Igarapeassu.
One specimen while of the body bulk of the others has the tegmina shorter 11.5.
Xestoblatta nyctiboroides Rehn.
1906.
Ischnoptera nyctiboroides Rehn Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1906 p. 266.
Demerara British Guiana.
Igarapeassii.
January 23 1912.
One male.
This specimen the second known of the species fully agrees with the original description except that the ulnar vein of the wings has two complete rami on one wing and but one on the other one incomplete ramus on one wing and none on the other.
Neoblattella conspersa Brunner.
1865.
Phyllodromia conspersa Brunner Nouv.
Syst.
Blatt. p. 106.
Brazil.
Igarapeassu.
December 1911 January 13 to 25 February 6 1912.
Twentytwo males twentyfive females.
Two Cornell University.
This interesting series shows that while the blackish punctulations on the tegmina in this species vary greatly in number and intensity they are never entirely absent and are always placed on thickened Ixodes on the veins.
In the individuals with the greater number of punctulations these are individually larger than in those specimens with a considerably smaller number of the same.
The pattern of the disk of the pronotum varies in intensity and completeness proi Vide Hebard Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLII p. 370 1916.
portionately with the tegminal punctulations in occasional specimens being obsolete or completely absent.
The pale transverse line ventrad of the eyes varies considerably in degree of definition but this is not correlated with the variation in intensity of the dorsal surface.
The ventral surface of the abdomen is always marked by a mediolongitudinal bar of blackish brown this varying individually in width and to a less extent in distinctness.
As one of the females bears an oStheca we know that in the present species the eggcase is carried vertically with the suture dorsad.
Neoblattella titania Rehn.
1903.
Blatella titania Rehn Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XXIX p. 267.
BartJca British Guiana.
Igarapeassu.
One female.
This individual fully agrees with the type.
Neoblattella pellucida Burmeister.
1838.
Blattapellucida Burmeister Handb.
der Entom. II abth II pt.
1 p. 498.
Pard Brazil.
Igarapeassu.
January 13 to 25 1912.
Two males three females.
Cariblatta igarapensis n. sp.
PI.
I figs.
1518.
Closely related to C. fossicauda' Hebard differing in the larger size this species being the largest of the genus more elongate tegmina and in the form of the subgenital plate of the male this of a similar type in which the dextral portion is but weakly produced the sinistral portion alone markedly projecting.
In the female the distal portion of the subgenital plate is less strongly produced than is normal for the genus but the apex is broadly rounded not appearing at all bilobate.
Type cf  Igarapeassu State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5237.
Size relatively large for the genus form as usual in the genus surface moderately polished.
Head for its whole width visible eephalad of the pronotum occipital line when seen from the dorsum straight interspace between the eyes broad the breadth subequal to the greatest depth of the eye and slightly less than the distance between the ocellar spots ocellar spots small oblique ovate third joint of palpi elongate simple faintly arcuate fourth joint very faintly shorter than the third joint regularly though not greatly expanding distad fifth joint slightly shorter than the fourth joint moderately inflated the flexor margin when seen from the side regu15 Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLII p. 177 pi.
XI figs.
13 to 17 pi.
XII fig 17 and 18 1916.
larly arcuate the extensor margin faintly sinuate apex roundly acute when seen from the side antennae slightly surpassing the body in length proximal joint large faintly longer than the second and third joints united.
Pronotum rounded subhexagonal transverse the greatest length contained one and twofifths times in the greatest width which is placed distinctly caudad of the middle cephalic margin weakly arcuate passing by broadly rounded angles into the oblique diverging and appreciably arcuate cephalic portions of the lateral margins which strongly round into the caudal sections of the lateral margins caudal margin arcuatotruncate rounded obtuseangulate laterad broad lateral portions of the pronotum weakly declivent.
Tegmina lanceolate greatest width contained about three and onehalf times in the length of the same when closed they surpass the apex of the abdomen by about the length of the pronotum costal margin in large part straight gently arcuate in the area of the marginal field sharply and briefly iarcuate distad sutural margin in general straight with a distal oblique subarcuate third apex rather narrowly rounded slightly costal in position marginal field reaching about to the proximal third relatively narrow scapular field very broad at proximal third of tegmen equal to onehalf the entire width of the same costal veins elongate straight oblique the distal one of the regular series biramose eleven in number exclusive of the rami of the distal one discoidal vein furcate distad one or both forks again furcate discoidal sectors longitudinal four to five in number exclusive of the median vein itself anal field elongate pyriform anal sulcus with its oblique portion nearly straight reaching the sutural margin at about the proximal third axillary veins five to six in number.
Wings relatively broad costal margin straight oblique in the greater portion of the proximal half straight truncate in the region of the costal veins sharply rounding to the rounded obtuseangulate apex which is situated at the apex of the median vein  intercalated triangle distinct trigonal  mediastine vein simple with a decided costal clavation at its apex discoidal vein bifurcate and its divisions again furcate costal veins ten in number the distal four of a common origin and hardly clavate the remainder heavily clavate mediodiscoidal area narrow dividing into oblong or subquadrate areolets by transverse nervures median vein simple largely straight medioulnar area subequal to or faintly narrower than the mediodiscoidal area distad more or less completely intersected by transverse nervures ulnar vein with two complete rami axillary vein with three rami originating mesad.
Supraanal plate strongly transverse the margin broadly obtuseangulate with the immediate angle broadly rounded the median section of the margin supplied with a group of long bristlelike hairs  cerci missing  subgenital plate very similar to that of fossicauda having a large elongate quadrate peglike projection sinistrad this however being proportionately longer and more compressed than in fossicauda mesad the distal margin is deeply Uemarginate dextrad of which is a projection less than onehalf the length of the sinistral protuberance dextral margin arcuate genital hook resembling that of C. insularis Walker but with the curve of the hook more distad in position.
Spination of the limbs typical of the genus.
Allotype  d  same data as the type.
Differing from the description of the male in the following features.
Occipital line weakly arcuate interspace between the eyes slightly exceeding the greatest depth of the eye and subequal to the distance between the margins of the antennal scrobes.
Supraanal plate transverse with a distinct relatively broad rounded emargination mesad cerci greatly surpassing the subgenital plate tapering moniliform apex sharply acuminate subgenital plate ample the distal section broad when seen from the ventral aspect not emarginate or bilobate weakly channelled when seen from the caudal aspect.
General color above pale old gold the tegmina and lateral portions of the pronotum semihyaline the wings almost colorless hyaline with the veins tinted.
Ventral surface largely cinnamonbuff to ochraceousbuff .
Head of the ventral color the face with bister bands which in disposition combine features of the patterns of C reticulosa and craticula the ventral facial band clearly defined in the allotype but not indicated in the type a detached bister point present at each lateral angle of the clypeal base in the allotype but not indicated in the type eyes kaiser brown thickly mottled with bister antennae old gold becoming bister distad.
Pronotum with a pattern in bister much like that of fossicauda but with the lines more connected and complete the pattern more intensive and therefore more complete in the allotype than in the type.
Wing veins excepting the costal clavations and radiate veins old gold the exceptions bister the clavations rather weakly so.
Dorsum of the abdomen washed with bister laterad leaving however a very narrow pale margin venter of abdomen with a proximal median area of bister and narrow submarginal lines of the same color.
Tibial spines and the larger femoral spines with their bases surrounded by bister rings.
Type Length of body 10 mm.
 length of pronotmn 2.2 greatest width of pronotum 3 length of tegmen 9.8 greatest width of tegmen 2.8.
Allotype Length of body 10 mm.
 length of pronotum 2.3 greatest width of pronotmn 3 length of tegmen 9.2 greatest width of tegmen 2.5.
The type and allotype are all the individuals of the species we have seen.
Nyctiborinae.
Paratropes elegans Burmeister.
1838.
Phoraspif elegans Burmeister Handb.
der Entom. II abth.
II pt.
1 p. 493.
Unknown locality probably Surinam.
Igarapeassu.
One male one female.
This species has been recorded from Surinam Saussure and Pard. Ega and Sao Paulo Brazil Walker Epilamprinse.
Epilampra grisea DeGeer.
1773.
Blatta grisea DeGeer Mem.
Hist.
Ins. Ill p. 540 pi.
44 fig.
9.
Surinam.
1903.
Epilampra lucifuga Rehn Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XXIX p. 271.
Southern British Guiana.
Igarapeassii.
January 2 to 23 1912.
Ten males five females.
The acquisition of this series and the recent redescription of the type of DeGeer's grisea by Shelford enables us to place our lucifuga as a synonym of this variable species.
The material before us exhibits two color forms one similar to the type of lucifuga the other with the castaneous markings slightly larger and more thickly distributed.
In all of the specimens the paired trigonal patches on the pronotum are retained.
In none of the specimens is the humeral trunk marked by a solid line this region having either a series of blotches or almost no infuscation at all.
Apparently this is the only exact Brazilian record of the species.
Epilampra conspersa Burmeister.
1838.
Epilampra conspersa Burmeister Handb.
der Entom. II abth.
II pt.
1 p. 505.
ParA Brazil.
Igarapeassii.
One female.
This individual agrees fully with the description given by Saussure and Zehntner although its identity with Burmeister 's species is not so certain.
The Burmeisterian description is very brief and is considered by Kirby to represent a form different from that studied by Saussure and Zehntner.
Personally we cannot express an opinion but prefer to use Burmeister's name for this handsome species until the type of conspersa has been reexamined.
16 Trans.
Entom.
Soc.
London 1907 p. 462.
1' Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. I p. 64 1893.
Blattinae.
Periplaneta americana Linnaeus.
1758.
Blatta americana Linnaeus Syst.
Nat. X ed. p. 424.
America.
Igarapeassii.
One female.
Periplaneta australasiae Fabricius.
1775.
Blatta australasice Fabricius Syst.
Entom. p. 271.
In nave e mari pacifico et regionibus incognitis revertente.
Igarapeassii.
January 7 1912.
One female.
Panchlorinae.
PancMora exoleta Burmeister.
1838.
Panchlora exoleta Burmeister Handb.
der Entom. II abth.
II pt.
1 p. 507.
Pard and Bahia Brazil.
Igarapeassii.
February 25 1912.
Two males one female.
Panchlora bidentula Hebard.
1916.
Panchlora bidentula Hebard Entom.
News XXVII p. 221 fig.
1.
Igarapeassii State of Para Brazil.
Igarapeassii.
January 17 1912 type no date paratype.
Two males.
OorydiinsB.
Melestora minutissima n. sp.
PI.
I fig.s.
22 23.
This is the smallest form of the genus being decidedly under the size of the three previously known species i. e. adspersipennis and fuscella Stal from Rio de Janeiro SLnd fulvella Rehn from the Misiones Argentina.
Aside from the much inferior size it differs from adspersipennis in the much less transverse pronotum in the nonsulcate character of the median area of the same and in the dark and less varied coloration.
From fuscella the new species also differs in the nonsulcate median section of the pronotum and in the nonpellucid character of the lateral portions of the same.
From fulvella with the type of which the new form has been compared the present species also differs in the less strongly transverse and more ovate pronotum in the tegminal venation becoming obsolete distad in the relatively longer caudal tarsi and in the fuscous coloration.
Type cf  Igarapeassii State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5248.
Size very small form elongate ovate depressed surface moderately polished regularly but sparsely clothed with silky pile.
Head visible cephalad of the pronotum the outline of the occiput and head arcuate interspace between the eyes very broad imiform in width which is subequal to the greatest depth of the eye surface of the inter' For comments on the important characters for diagnostic use in this genus as well as the svnonvmy of many of the nominal species of the same see Hebard Entom.
News XXVII pp.
217 to 221 1916.
space finely rugulose and with regularly placed impressed pits with fine diverging radial lines interspace between the antennal scrobes very faintly narrower than that between the eyes moderately arcuate in section glabrous palpi with the fourth joint very slender proximad regularly expanding distad the apical margin obliquel truncate distal article longer than the fourth joint broad greatest width at proximal third margins regularly converging to the acute apex eyes with facets clearly defined and slightly elevated individually antennae at least as long as the body the proximal segment short moniliform subglobose the joints becoming progressively longitudinal distad regularly pilose.
Pronotum transversely short elliptical the greatest length contained one and onefifth times in the greatest width all margins arcuate the nearest approach to angulation being the weakly suggested laterocaudal angles oblique depressions distinct extending from the mediocaudal section toward the usual position of the laterocephalic angles then turning mesad and extending subparallel to the cephalic margin vanishing caudad Ijefore reaching the middle line the enclosed area moderately bullate with irregularly placed and irregularly indicated slight transverse wrinkles no mediolongitudinal impression lateral sections of pronotum weakly declivent.
Tegmina coriaceous haired as the other portions of the body lanceolateelliptical the greatest width contained three times in the greatest length of the tegmen  costal margin lightly and regularly arcuate sutural margin straight for the greater portion of the pmximal twothirds arcuate distad apex rather broadly rounded the entire costal margin thickened and finely nodulose cingulate marginal field occupying about the proximal twofifths well developed moderately wide six well defined costal veins indicated discoidal field with six definite longitudinal sectors including the discoidal vein itself these sinuate connected by crossveins and forming quadrate to oblong interspaces all obsolete distad becoming lost in the coriaceous shagreenous condition of that region  anal sulcus distinct impressed arcuate proximad straight oblique distad joining the sutural margin near the proximal third anal field elongate pyriform axillary veins three in number poorly defined.
Wings faintly surpassing the tegminal apices when all are in repose.
Supraanal plate transverse the free margin sinuatearcuate cerci moderately long robust subfusiform the apex rather short acute the whole subdepressed  subgenital plate asymmetrical from thesinistral side the margin is developed as follows obliquely arcuateemarginate ventrad of the cercus then developed into an acute peglike process which is narrowly separated from a median rectangulate projection by a distinct but not deep Vshaped emargination dextrad of the rectangulate projection the margin is briefly arcuate then strongly oblique truncate.
Median and caudal femora with ventral margins finely spined caudal tarsi hardly shorter than the caudal tibiae the metatarsus occupying slightly more than onehalf the length of the tarsus aroha present.
General color mummy brown becoming buckthorn broTi distad on the femora and remainder of the limbs and blackishbrown on the head and proximal antennal joint.
Abdomen becoming auburn mesoproximad.
Subgenital plate blackishbrown.
Eyes blackishbrowTi.
Length of body 6.2 mm.
 length of pronotum 1.5 greatest width of pronotum 1.7 length of tegmen 5.3 greatest width of tegmen 1.7.
The type is unique.
Oxyhaloinae.
ChorisoEeura parish
n. sp.
PI.
I figs.
1921.
This is a most peculiar species which we are placing in Chorisoneura chiefl on account of the peculiar structure of the male subgenital plate.
The femora are very weakly spined ventrad while the general form is distinctly suggestive of an Anapleda so much so that we are not at all convinced of the proper generic position of the species the assignment of which is tentative.
The insect does not seem to be closely related to any of the described species of Chorisoneura and we are unable to give a comparative diagnosis for that reason.
Type d  Igarapeassu State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5234.
Size rather small form depressed elongate elliptical surface moderately polished.
Head projecting cephalad of the pronotum when seen from the dorsum  occipital line arcuatotruncate when seen from the dorsum least interspace between the eyes which is ventral in position very broad subequal to the area between the antennal scrobes face moderately bullate palpi with the third joint slender slightly longer than the fifth joint fourth joint faintly shorter than the fifth joint slender proximad and regularly enlarging distad fifth joint somewhat thickened elongate elliptical in outline eyes strongly reniform in basal outline antennae slightly exceeding the body in length third joint nearly twice as long as the second joint proximal joint moderately enlarged slightly longer than the third joint.
Pronotum transverse its greatest length contained one and onehalf times in its greatest iidth cephalic and caudal margins very faintly arcuate subparallel the caudal of greater extent than the cephalic lateral margins lroadly and strongly arcuate laterocephalic angles obsolete laterocaudal angles very faint greatest width situated slightly caudad of the middle  surface of the disk with a faint discontinuous mediolongitudinal impression also with three pairs of poorly defined impressions the caudal pair practically delimiting the disk laterocaudad lateral portions of the pronotum semihyaline weakly deflexed.
Tegmina elongate lanceolate the greatest width contained about three and onehalf times in the greatest length costal margin moderately arcuate in proximal third straight thence to the moderately arcuate distal fourth  sutural margin of similar form but the distal arcuation is somewhat more extensive apex rounded acuminate nearlj median in position marginal field of medium width sharply subdeplanate extending to the proximal third of tegmen scapular field broad comprising but slightly less than half the entire tegminal width anal field subpyriform comprising slightly less than onethird the sutural length costal vein twelve in number obUque somewhat sinuate and irregular discoidal vein bifurcate distad the sutural ramus sending two rami to the distal section of the sutural margin median vein in general parallel to the discoidal vein reaching the sutural margin proximad of the discoidal rami sending two to three strongly oblique rami suturad  ulnar vein bifurcate anal sulcus strongly arcuate proximad straight oblique thence to the apex which is very briefly arcuate axillary veins five in number poorly defined.
Wings with the intercalated field relatively large its axial length about equal to onethird that of the remainder of the wing strongly arcuate distad subrectangulate proximad costal veins eleven in number the three proximal ones springing from the mediastine vein the proximal nine all distinctly elongate clavate discoidal vein straight simple except for the costal veins mediodiscoidal area broad its width at broadest point almost equal to that from discoidal vein to costal margin divided into more or less distinctly quadrate areas by eleven transverse veins median vein straight except for curving costad toward the discoidal vein near its apex simple except for several rudimentary rami distad medioulnar area narrow distinctly less at broadest points than half as wide as the mediodiscoidal area axillary vein biramose.
Subgenital plate of the slightly asymmetrical type with the large compressed 1 The condition of the material is such that we have refrained from making any effort to ascertain the features of the supraanal plate.
type of styles found in a number Of kpecies of the genus form of the plate reading from sinistral portion first an infracereal slightly oblique subtruncate projecting portion this rounding into a relatively deep Ushaped emargination to the base of the styles which are placed in broadly unequally arcuate emarginations between which is a slight acuteangulate projection dextrad of the styles the margin is developed similarly to the sinistral portion but the projection is narrower and more acute styles in length distinctly surpassing the remainder of the subgenital plate distinctly compressed subparallel tapering ventral margin thickened cerci elongate depressed subfusiform distad greatly attenuate.
Femoral margins with a few weak short spines genicular spines stronglj developed on median and caudal femora arolia large.
General color buckthorn brown.
Head dull vinaceousruf ous  eyes cinnamonbrown antennae with the proximal portion of the dorsal surface lined with mummy brown  palpi clay color.
Pronotum dull mars yellow mesad this flanked by a pair of poorly defined broad bars of dark auburn which chverge caudad and fail to reach the caudal margin of the pronotum lateral portions of the pronotum nearly colorless hyaline.
Tegmina with marginal field nearly colorless hyaline humeral trunk and vicinity dark auburn.
Wing weakly washed with buckthorn brown the intermarginal costal region washed and the radiate veins pencilled with mummy brown.
Abdomen on both lateral aspects with indefinite marginal bands of mummy brown.
Length of body 8 mm.
 length of pronotum 1.6 greatest width of pronotum 2.4 length of tegmen 6.6 greatest width of tegmen 18.
In addition to the type we have before us a paratypic male bearing the same data as the type.
This specimen shows no differences excepting a quadriramose condition of the tegminal discoidal vein which has one ramus furcate on one tegmen and biramose on the other.
We take great pleasure in dedicating this interesting and aberrant species to the collector Mr. Parish to whose energy we are indebted for several extremely interesting and important series of tropical American Orthoptera.
MANTID.
Mantinse.
Acontiotliespis eximia Pascoe.
1882.
Callimantis eximia Pascoe Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 5 IX p. 423.
Nazare near Para Brazil.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male.
Igarapeassii.
January 19 1912.
Two males one female.
Kirbyo who examined Pascoe's type considers Saussure and Zehntner's paraensis to be the same as eximia.
The male has not been previously described.
In that sex the general form of the head is similar to that found in the female but the occipital line is weakly concave and the facial scutellum is slightly shallower though of exactly the same general pattern.
The pronotum is of similar form to that of the female but naturally slightly more slender.
The tegmina are entirely hyaline except the marginal field and the vicinity of the humeral trunk which are opaque green.
The wings are hyaline with the costal margin rather narrowly washed with pomegranate purple a longitudinal blotch placed on the caudal twothirds of the radiate field at about twofifths the length of the wing from the internal margin bone brown in color.
One of the Igarapeassu males measures as follows length of body 19.8 mm.
 length of pronotum 4.4 greatest width of pronotum 2.2 length of tegmen 14 length of cephalic femur 5.2.
All the known records of the species are from the state of Para Brazil.
Angela quinquemaculata Olivier.
1792.
Mantis quinquemaculata Olivier Encycl.
Meth. Ins. VII p. 636.
Surinam.
Igarapeassii.
One male.
This specimen has been compared with a male of the species from Bartica British Guiana 11271913 H. S. Parish and agrees in all respects except two.
The folded carination of the distodorsal abdominal segments is well indicated in the Bartica specimen and not apparent in that from Igarapeassii.
The Bartica specimen is more intensely colored having the yellow areas between the purplish bars on the wings brighter but the general weak infuscation of the wings is more extensive in the Brazilian specimen and the distal ferruginous patch on the anterior field of the same is more decided in this individual.
Apparently this is the first Brazilian record of the species.
Macromantis ovalifolia StoU.
1813.
Mantis ovalifolia StoU Natuur.
Afbeeld.
Beschr.
Spooken etc. pp.
58 77 pi.
XIX fig.
72.
No locality.
Igarapeassii.
One male.
This specimen has the marginal field of the tegmina hyaline in the proximal twofifths and viridicoriaceous distad.
Apparently 20 Synon.
Catal.
Orth. I p. 233 1904.
this is the first record of the genus fjom Brazil or from south of the Guianas.
Miopteryginse.
Musonia' major Saussure and Zehntner.
1894.
Musonia major Saussure and Zehntner Biol.
Cent.Amer. Ortli. I p. 165 pi.
X figs.
17 to 19.
South America.
Igarapeassu.
Two males.
These specimens have also been compared with a male of this species from Nouveau Chantier French Guiana recorded by Chopard.The form of the supraanal plate of the male has never been described.
From our material it is seen to be elongate lanceolate with the apex rounded and but faintly surpassing the distal margin of the subgenital plate.
There is present on the plate a distinct precurrent median carina.
This is the first record of the species from Brazil.
Vatinae.
Parastagmatoptera flavoguttata Serville.
1839.
Mantit flavoguttata Serville Hist.
Nat.
Ins. Orthopt. p. 183.
Cayenne.
Igarapeassu.
One male.
This specimen is inseparable from males from Nouveau Chantier French Guiana determined and recorded by Chopard.
ACRIDID.
Acrydiinse.
Eomorphopus granulatus Hancock.
1906.
Eomorphopus granulatus Hancock Genera Insectorum fasc.
48 Tetriginse p. 38 pi.
IV figs.
35 and 35a.
Dutch Guiana.
Igarapeassu.
January 25 1912.
One male.
Allotettix peruvianus Bolivar.
1887.
ParatetUx peruvianus Bolivar Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
Belg. XXXI p. 272.
Pumamarca Peru.
Igarapeassu.
Four males one female.
 The type of this genus was first fixed by the present author in February 1904 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXVII p. 568 as surinama.
Kirby later Synon Catal.
Orth. I p. 276  not earlier than November 1904 indicated major Saussure and Zehntner as the type an unwarranted and untenable designation as it was not one of the originally included species.
As GiglioTos has based his recently proposed generic name Promusonia on surinama Bull.
Soc.
Entom.
Ital. XL VII p. 6 1916 it is evident that his name is a pure synonym of Musonia as properly restricted.
As we have already contended Ibid. p. 567 the generic name Mionyx also becomes a synonym of Musonia although at the date of our previous writing no single type had been selected for it.
Kirby however indicated Ibid. p. 276 as its type lineativentris Stl which is apparently congeneric with surinama in addition being with the latter the original basis of Musonia.
Certain species which have been referred to Mionyx are apparently not congeneric with surinama and these will require a new generic name.
22 Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France LXXX p. 332 1911.
Micronotus caudatus Saussure.
1861.
TcUix caudata Saussure Revue et Magasin de Zoologie 2e ser. XIII p. 399.
Guiana.
Igarapeassu.
Three males five females.
These specimens are typical of this relatively widely distributed species.
It seems to us very probable that Bruner's Tettix gracilis from Trinidad' equals the present species.
Apotettix bruneri Hancock.
1906.
Apotettix bruneri Hancock in Bruner Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXX p. 614.
Paraguay.
Igarapeassu.
One female.
This specimen is inseparable from Paraguayan and Argentinian individuals of the same sex.
The range of the species is much extended to the northward by this record.
Tettigidea hancocki Brunr 1910.
Tettigidea hancocki Bruner Ann.
Carneg.
Mus. VII p. 131.
Corumba Brazil.
Igarapeassii.
One male.
This specimen fully agrees with the description of hancocki but in size it is somewhat smaller showing the following proportions length of body 8.8 mm.
 length of pronotum 9.1 length of tegmen 1.7 length of wing distad of pronotum 2.5 length of caudal femur 5.4.
The two localities from which this species are known are widely separated but doubtless it will be found in suitable situations in the intervening region.
Proscopinse.
Proscopia scabra Klug.
1820.
Proscopia scabra Klug in Nees ab Esenbeck Horse Physicae Berolin. p. 19 pi.
Ill fig.
2.
Pard Brazil.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male.
The male is particularly interesting in having a striking type of coloration a median supraclypeal area on the lower face the ventral section of the gense the cephalic supracoxal plate a wash along each side of the mesoand metapleura and the greater portion of the immediate apex of the abdomen being yellowish.
The species Taxiarchus paraensis described by us from Obidos Amazon River we find to be a synonym of the present species.
The unsatisfactory character of Brunner's generic key and lack of comparable material were largely responsible for the reference of this insect to Taxiarchus.
2' Journ.
N. Y. Entom.
See XIV p. 145 1906.
21 Entom.
News XVII p. 332 1906.
Certain of the genera of the present subfamily do not appear at all natural or if so are not properly defined.
The species is known from as far south as Bahia and inland to the upper Amazonian region.
Acridinae Truxalinoe of authors.
Orphulella punctata DeGeer.
177.3.
Acrydium punclatum DeGeer Mem.
Hist.
Ins. Ill p. 503 pi.
42 fig.
12.
Surinam.
Igarapeassii.
Two males one female.
Para.
W. M.
Mann.
One male one female.
C. F.
Baker.
Three males seven females.
This series exhibits the usual phases and variations of this plastic and widespread species.
But two these females from Para are of the all green phase while the strongly infuscated phase is represented in the Igarapeassii and Para lots.
In a relatively large numler of specimens the lateral carinse of the pronotal disk show a more or less decided tendency to become obsolete between the first and second transverse sulci.
Orphulella boucardi Bmner.
1904.
Linoceratium boucardi Bruner Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. II p. 84.
Rio Sarstoon British Honduras Panama San Diego Department of Magdalena Colombia.
Igarapeassii.
February 1 1912 one specimen only.
Six males two females.
For comments on the synonymy of this species the student is referred to a recent paper by the author. Omtnexechinse .
Ommexecha gigliotosi Bolivar.
1899.
0mmexechn gigliotosi Bolivar Revista Chilena Hist.
Nat. Ill pp.
54 55.
Caiza Aguairenda and San Francisco BoHvian Chaco.
Igarapeassii.
One male.
This specimen is inseparable from individuals of the same sex previously recorded by us from northern Argentina except that the disk of the wing is more glaucous and less azure blue.
Py rgoraorphinae .
Omura congrua Walker.
1870.
Omura congrua Walker Catal.
Derm.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus. Ill p. 504.
Pard Brazil Amazon Region Archidona Ecuador.
Igarapeassii.
One male.
Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLII p. 277 1916.
LocustiDse Acridinoe of authors.
Colpolopha obsoleta Serville.
1831.
Tropinotus obsoletus Serville Ann.
Sci.
Nat. XXII.
p. 274.
Cape of Good Hope.
Igarapeassii.
One male.
This specimen is inseparable from British Guianan males of the species which has been recorded from Santarem Rehn and Para Bruner Brazil.
Tropidacris collaris StoU.
1813.
Gryllus Locusla collaris Stoll Natuurl.
Afb.
Beschyr.
Spooken etc. Trekspringhaanen pp.
39 register 13 pi.
XXIV fig.
SO.
No locality.
Igarapeassii.
One dated January 17 1912.
One male two females.
Stenaoris cylindrodes Stai.
1860.
Opsomala cylindrodes StS.1 Kong.
Svenska Freg.
Eugenies Resa Ins. p. 325.
Rio de Janeiro Brazil.
Igarapeassu.
One female.
This specimen is inseparable from south Brazilian material.
Oxyblepta xanthochlora Marschall.
1835.
Gryllus xanthochlorus Marschall Ann.
Wiener Mus. I p. 215 pi.
XVIII fig.
7.
Brazil.
Igarapeassu.
One dated January 17 1912.
Two males two females.
These specimens are only provisionally referred to this species as the forms of the genus found in northern South America and their relationship is very poorly understood.
Mastusia caeruleipennis Bmner.
1911.
Mastusia caeruleipennis Bruner Ann.
Carneg.
Mus. VIII p. 86.
Benevides state of Para Brazil.
Igarapeassu.
Three males two females.
This species was described from a female apparently unique.
The male sex fully agrees with the important features of the original description except for the genital characters and those features in which the males of this group show some difference from the female i. e. smaller size proportionately narrower interocular space of the vertex more prominent eyes and slightly more distinct median carina of the pronotum.
In size the male specimens before us show the following measurements  Length of body 22.3 mm.
19 mm.
19.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 4.4  4  4.3  Greatest dorsal caudal width of pronotum 2.2  2.1 '' 2.2  Length of tegmen 11  9  10'' Length of caudal femur 13.1  12.1 '' 13.5  The male genitalic characters can be briefly described as follows.
The distodorsal abdominal segment has the distal margin concave mesad the concavity delimited laterad by a short black projecting tooth supraanal plate of the trefoil type found in this genera group the paired lateral sections strongly rounded the median distal section short sublinguiform the dividing emarginations roundly rectangulate proximal half of plate with a median sulcus widening distad cerci developed as broad plates but slightly surpassing the apex of the supraanal plate the dorsal section of the plate strongly impressed and depressed with the apex slightly recurved on the main portion of the cercus the lateral section which is thrown into relief by the impressed and recurved sections being of the subfalciform pattern found in the cerci of other species of this group of genera in which species however the cerci are not at all lamellate but instead show modifications of a simpler cereal type subgenital plate short when seen from the lateral aspect blunted the apex strongly pinched dorsad.
The male sex and to a lesser degree one of the females shows certain color differences from the original description.
The dorsal coloration is appreciably marked off from the darker lateral bars by narrow lines of dull yellow on the head and pronotum which are continued caudad from the pallid lines on the tegmina mentioned by Bruner.
There is also a dark bar which varies in solidity across the ventral sections of the gense lateral lobes and more weakly the pleura bordering ventrad the yellow described by Bruner.
The face is dull pale olivaceous green in both sexes.
The caudal femora are clear oil yellow proximad passing to oil green distad with the distal extremity somewhat infuscated.
The number of spines on the external margin of the caudal tibiae varies from six to seven.
Tetrataenia surinama Linnaeus.
PI.
I figs.
24 and 26.
1764.
Gryllus surinamus Linnaeus Mus.
Ludovic.
Ulric. p. 146.
Surinam.
Igarapeassu.
Five males.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male one female.
This series shows the male sex to have a very great amount of variation in size and apparently to a certain degree locally in the depth of general coloration in the Igarapeassu specimens the dorsal surface of the head and pronotum is fully as dark as the lateral i. e. ventrad of the narrow pale dorsolateral lines areas while the tegmina are more olivaceous instead of the same area 13 on the pronotum and the tegmina being distinctly greenish as in the Para individuals.
The size extremes in millimeters of the Igarapeassu males and the single female Para seen are as follows d' cf 9 Length of body 19.5 mm.
29 mm.
35 mm.
Length of pronotmn 4.2  5.8  6.6 Greatest dorsal caudal width of pronotum 2.6  3.8  4.8 Length of tegmen 17.6  22.7  24.6 Length of caudal femur 13.6  18.6  19 i it sThe species has been recorded from Surinam Brazil Coca Bolivar and Valley of Santiago GiglioTos Ecuador.
The two latter records may not refer to true surinama.
Tetrataenia philae n. sp.
Pi.
I figs.
25 and 27.
Allied to T. surinama Linnaeus but differing in the generally smaller size less strongly bullate occiput narrower interspace between the eyes shorter and proportionately broader fastigium more prominent eyes in the more slender and more regularly arcuate male cerci in the less expanded genicular lobes of the median femora and the small dorsal spine of the same region in the less produced and more robust caudal femora of the male and in the less strongly contrasted coloration.
Type cf Igarapeassu State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5284.
Size small for the genus form in general as in T. surinama.
Head with the occiput regularly buUatearcuate ascending but not as elevated as the dorsal surface of the eyes weakly carinate mesad the vertex and fastigium moderately declivent interspace between the eyes subequal in width to the interantennal section of the frontal costa fastigium nearly twice as broad as long cephalic margin arcuatoobtuse faintly excavate near the apex fastigiofacial angle roundly obtuse when seen from the lateral aspect face gently retreating bounding border of the fastigium well indicated frontal costa not strongly indicated ventrad failing to reach the clypeal suture moderately narrowed dorsad at the fastigiofacial angle and again to a smaller degree ventrad of the ocellus thence subequal in width ventrad surface biseriate punctate dorsad faintly sulcate ventrad lateral facial carinse distinct and gently diverging 2 From lAe a friend.
ventrad eyes prominent distinctly elevated dorsad of the vertex in outline broad ovate in length twice as long as the infraocular portion of the gense antennae almost twice as long as the combined length of the head and pronotum.
Pronotum subsellate greatest width caudad of the disk contained one and onehalf times in the greatest length cephalic margin of disk gently arcuate with a shallow median emargination caudal margin obtuseangulate with the immediate angle narrowly emarginate prozona about one and onehalf times as long as the metazona the latter closely cribrosopunctate transverse sulci deeply impressed median carina faintly indicated on the prozona severed by all the transverse sulci distinct but low and not sharply defined on the metazona lateral angles rounded faintly more evident on the metazona than on the prozona lateral lobes with their greatest depth contained one and onequarter times in their greatest dorsal length cephalic margin straight oblique ventrocephalic angle rounded obtuseangulate ventral margin arcuatoemarginate cephalad obtuseangulate mesad straight oblique ascending caudad ventrocaudal angle rounded caudal margin moderatel concave.
Tegmina reaching to the tips of the caudal femora apex rounded.
Wings reaching to the tegminal tips.
Prosternal spine erect conical acute interspace between the mesosternal lobes quadrate internal margins of the lobes straight internocaudal angles rounded metasternal lobes very narrowly separated caudad.
Furcula present as short spiniform points between which and the cereal bases are placed on each side a single similar point the abdominal segment bearing the same sublamellate expanded over the cereal base supraanal plate elongate trigonal slightly arcuateemarginate on each side mesad apex broadly rounded margins moderately elevated the median line of the plate finely sulcate proximad carinate distad cerci thick at the base thence tapering to the subequal distal half moderately arcuate in form apex blunt moderately incurved subgenital plate considerably produced distal portion strongly compressed with the apex faintly bulbous this faintly elevated when seen from the lateral aspect.
Cephalic limbs as usual in the genus.
Median femora with the dorsal genicular teeth short and blunt the genicular lobes not strongly developed.
Caudal femora slightly more than twice as long as the head and pronotum together rather robust not surpassing the tips of the tegmina genicular lobes acute pattern of the paginse regular moderately impressed  caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora distal twothirds expanded margins there distinctly lamellate lamellar brush on internal margin thick external margin with but a few hairs external margin with six to seven spines internal margin with nine spines caudal tarsi with proximal joint strongly depressed.
Allotype 9  same data as type.
Differing from the description of the male in the following features.
Frontal costa sulcate for but a short distance ventrad of the ocellus plane thence ventrad  eyes elevated but slightly dorsad of the vertex in depth about one and onehalf times that of the infraocular portion of the gense antennse hardly twice as long as the pronotum alone Pronotum not as sellate as in the male the dorsal line not at all concave when seen from the side greatest dorsal caudal width of disk contained about one and onethird times in the greatest dorsal length of the same  prozona about one and onethird times as long as the metazona lateral lobes of the pronotum with their greatest dorsal length very faintly longer than their greatest depth.
Interspace between mesosternal lobes faintly broader than in the male that between metasternal lobes cuneate and at narrowest point about twofifths the width of the mesosternal interspace.
Ovipositor jaws elongate slender compressed margins irregularly denticulate.
Median femora of normal type as usual in females of this genus.
General color of intensive individuals very dark olive on the dorsal and lateral aspects ventral surface and abdomen olive' yellow to yellowish olive mottled in both cases with bottle green metazona of the dorsum of the pronotum washed with ivy green.
The usual four lines on the head pronotum and pleura relatively narrow the dorsal pair quite narrow in color these lines are oliveocher to oliveyellow paling to creambuff or primrose yellow where the ventral pairs are connected on the face pleural spots three in number.
Eyes mars brown to prout's brown antennse of the general color in proximal half weakly subannulate with dull ochraceous tips briefly cream color.
Tegmina with the anal vein lined with the continuation of the dorsal pair of pale lines anal area sometimes weakly washed with bottle green.
Wings with the disk china blue apex and distal half of periphery clouded with fuscous.
Cephalic and median limbs of the ventral color the mottling of bottle green quite marked the tibiae subannulate with fuscous proximal portion of the femora washed with nopal red.
Caudal femora with the external dorsal and internal faces of the general dorsal color triannulate with aniline yellow the proximal annulus incomplete the median one Vshaped on the lateral face ventral face aniline yellow or washed with garnet browni the proximal portion of the femora washed more or less completely with nopal red  caudal tibiae deep slate blue paler along the margins an incomplete proximal yellowish annulus spines yellowish black tipped caudal tarsi dull greenish faintly washed with reddish this probably more extensive and much stronger in life internal margin of the two proximal joints lined with black.
In the single recessively colored incUvidual before us the dorsal pale lines are greatly subdued and the femoral bands particularly the caudal ones are obsolete while the general color is less distinctly greenish and in places more brownish.
The pale antennal tips and the ventral pair of pale bands are however as decided as in the intensively colored specimens.
Measurements in millimeters.
cf 9 Type AUotype Length of body 18.7 25.4 Length of pronotum 4 5.2 Greatest width of dorsum of pronotum 2.5 3.9 Length of tegmen 15.1 19 Length of caudal femur 12.2 15.2 In adchtion to the type and allotjpe we have before us two paratypic females which show structural differences only in the faintly more bullate dorsum of the pronotum of one specimen which is of the recessive type of coloration noted above.
An interesting thing concerning one female paratype is that the left antenna was broken off at the sixth joint some time during the life of the insect and there has been regenerated distad of that joint a terminal joint much longer and appreciably more bulbous than the other segments which terminal segment curiously enough bears a narrow terminal pale marking.
Since writing the above we have had placed in our hands a single female of the species from Albina Surinam collected May 1904 by William Schaus and belonging to the United States National Museum.
This individual is more brownish than the Igarapeassu specimens with the pattern recessive in character.
CHLOROPSEUSTES27 new genus.
A member of the Tetratseniae and allied to Tetratcenia M'astusia and Eumastusia but completely apterous and in general form strongly resembling species of the Coscineutid genus Dellia from which however Chloropseustes can be immediately separated by the expanded ' From i.w3of green ipevar deceiver.
and marginally lamellate distal sections of the caudal tibiae as well as by the character of the genitalia of both sexes.
The more fully the other features of the new genus are examined the more superficial the evident resemblance to Dellia is found to be.
From all of the allied genera Chloropseustes can be separated by its apterous condition its supragenicular spiniform process and its highly polished surface from Tetratcenia also in the broadly emarginate caudal margin of the pronotal disk the more  cf  or less  9  sulcate frontal costa the simpler subgenital plate of the male and the absence of the clavation of the distal extremity of the median femora found in the male of Tetratcenia from Eumastusia the new genus differs in the form of the head and general type of the pronotum as well as sculpture of the same in the noncompressed male subgenital plate and in the linear more exserted ovipositor jaws of the female from Mastusia the new genus also differs in the form and sculpture of the head and pronotum in the emarginate caudal margin of the pronotal disk and in the linear more exserted female ovipositor jaws.
The coloration of the type species is very distinctive.
Description of Genus.
 Apterous.
Glabrous.
Surface of face gense occiput pronotum pleura and proximal abdominal segment with small raised but low callose white areas.
Interspace of vertex narrow fastigium subdeclivent sulcate fastigiofrontal region truncate when viewed from lateral aspect face retreating frontal costa distinctly cf  or weakly  9  sulcate mesad and ventrad plane dorsad eyes prominent in both sexes.
Pronotum with three very deeply impressed transverse sulci no lateral and little trace in male only of median carinae  cephalic and caudal margins of cUsk emarginate mesad mesonotum not equal to onethird the length of the prozona.
Supraanal plate of male subtrigonal cerci of male falciform subgenital plate short broad.
Ovipositor jaws of female elongate straight margins weakly denticulate.
Prosternal spine subcompressed conical acute.
Mesosternal lobes with interspace sHghtly longitudinal  cf  or slightly transverse  9  .
Metasternal lobes contiguous cf or narrowly separated 9.
Cephalic and median femora of male subinflated cephalic genicular lobe larger than caudal lobe on each femur.
Caudal femora with a more cf  or less  9  pronounced supragenicular spine genicular lobes weakly acute caudal tibiae expanded distad with the margins sublamellate external margin with seven spines internal margin with nine spines caudal tarsi elongate second joint subequal to onehalf the length of the metatarsus third joint subequal to joints one and two together.
Genotype C. leucotylus new species.
Chloropseustes leucotylus' n. sp.
PI I fig.
2831.
TjTe cT  Igarapeassu State of Para Brazil.
January 17 1912.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5287.
Size small.
Head slightly enlarging cephalad of its insertion in the pronotum occiput roundly inflated and ascending vertex with interspace between the eyes very narrow less than the width of the third antennal joint caudad of the constriction the vertex is lanceolate sulcatoimpressed fastigium weakly declivent when seen from the lateral aspect distinctly broader than long when seen from the dorsum the greatest width subequal to twice the width of the proximal antennal joint fastigium delicately sulcate mediolongitudinally fastigiofrontal region vertically truncate to between the antennae when seen from the lateral aspect face then strongly retreating weakly concave frontal costa indicated to the elypeal suture narrow weakly narrowed ventrad of junction with fastigium and faintly so immediately ventrad of the median ocellus surface of costa dorsad plane with a few punctures ventrad of ventral margins of antennal scrobes deeply but narrowly sulcate lateral facial carinas well indicated divergent ventrad eyes quite prominent large well elevated dorsad of the vertex in length about twice that of the infraocular portion of the genae antennae about three times as long as the pronotum simple joints elongate very faintly enlarging distad.
Pronotum weakly sellate in general form but dorsal line straight with greatest dorsal length slightly greater than the greatest dorsal width  cephalic margin of disk subarcuate with shallow broad median emargination caudal margin of disk very broadly and faintly emarginate with a more pronounced broad median Vemargination  mecUan carina very weakly and discontinuously indicated on the prozona transverse sulci very deeply impressed the caudal one continuous the others three in number severed by the median carina a supplementary short dorsal sulcus placed between sulci one and two metazona forming no more than onefourth of the dorsal length of the pronotum lateral lobes about one and threefourths times as long as deep ventrocaudal angle rounded caudal margin straight surface of metazona of lobes faintly punctulate.
Mesonotum with caudal margin faintly obtuseangulate emarginate mesad the surface ascending dorsocaudad into a blunt tubercular structure  metanotum with a structure similar to that of mesonotum but the caudal margin is more decidedly obtuseangulate emarginate.
Tegmina 5 From EVKor while rv.or knob.
and wings completely absent.
Abdomen slightly compressed weakly carinate mediolongitudinally dorsad extremity slightly recurved furcula developed as short broad rounded wellseparated lobes lateral sections of the segment bearing the furcula sublamellate and projecting over the lateral face of the cereal base the margin of these lobes arcuate obtuseangul ate supraanal plate moderately produced and constricted trigonal the apex moderately broad rounded lateral margins with the cereal emargination broad moderately deep and regularly arcuate distal section of plate slightly deflected ventrad from the plane of the proximal portion of the same the deflected portion with lateral sulci limiting a median rounded boss cerci falciform short not surpassing the apex of the supraanal plate proximal portion of the cerci very broad then tapering strongh to the relatively slender and moderately acute distal portion the whole cercus placed so as to incline toward the median line of the body subgenital plate very short broad not at all produced when seen from the lateral aspect rounded the dorsal margin broadly Ushaped. Prosternal spine moderately compressed conical acute arising from a broad base.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes subcuneate slightly longer than broad metasternal lobes touching on their caudal half.
Cephalic and median femora moderately inflated appreciably arcuate cephalic genicular lobe of each of these femora larger than the caudal lobe of the same.
Caudal femora about twice as long as the head and pronotum together surpassing the apex of the abdomen by nearly onehalf the femoral length moderately slender external paginae regularly and distinctly sculptured genicular lobes moderately acute median section of dorsogenicular margin with a distinct projecting spine caudal tibiae very slightly shorter than the femora distinctly expanded distad the margins there considerably lamellate marginal hairs few in number but individually long and regularly disposed external margin with seven spines internal margin with eight to nine spines caudal tarsi not quite onehalf as long as the caudal tibise slender the first and second joints together but slightly longer than the third the second joint about onehalf the length of the first joint which is considerably depressed.
Allotype 9  same data as the type.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
The female differs from the male description in the following features.
Interspace between the eyes subequal to the width of the second antennal joint the vertex caudad of the interspace hardly more 29 The type has this plate compressed apparently unnaturally so and we are taking its marginal form from the paratypic male which apparently represents the normal type.
than finel' suleate frontal costa less clearly defined ventrad and with the sulcation weaker and subobsolete ventrad eyes not quite twice as long as the infraocular portion of the gense  antennae about two and onehalf times as long as the dorsum of the pronotum.
Pronotum slightly shorter the lateral lobes about one and onehalf times as long as deep.
Mesonotum and metanotum with marginal form and tuberculiform structure less decided.
Supraanal plate elongate trigonal strongly arcuate in transverse section apex rather blunt surface nonsulcate cerci short blunt styliform ovipositor valves exserted elongate straight compressed apices slightly blunted lateral margins rather finely denticulate dorsal surface of dorsal valves weakl canaliculate.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly transverse metasternal lobes narrowly separated.
Cephalic and median femora more slender.
Caudal femora with dorsal genicular spine less aciculate.
General color calla green to ivy green passing into more or less clear oil yellow on the lateral lobes of the pronotum cf  the gense and lower face cf and rostral region both sexes.
The pale spotting ranges from maize yellow through creamy white to light greenyellow and is distributed roughly as follows  three paired spots on face three to four paired markings ventrad of eyes and on gense a paired series of eight spots following the usual position of lateral pronotal carinse extending from eyes to caudal coxse another paired series extending from mesonotum to and over dorsum of third to fifth proximal abdominal segments ventral section of lateral lobes of pronotum with three paired dashes all these markings placed on strumose tubercles or ridges.
Fastigium of male distinctly of female weakly pale lemon yellow antennse of the color of the face infuscated distad  eyes mars brown to russet.
Abdomen of male occasionally yellowish distoventrad  furcula edge of expansion of distodorsal abdominal segment and tips of cerci of male black.
Caudal femora with distal extremity and adjacent section of tibia
cadmium orange to cadmium yellow strongest on the genicular arches and weakly tinged with the general greenish on the lobes and dorsum caudal tibiae with spines blacktipped caudal tarsi with pulvilli pads scarlet red in some specimens yellowish possibly faded in others.
Measurements in millimeters.
d 9 Type Allotype Length of body 13.6 17.8 Length of pronotum 2.9 3.1 Greatest dorsal width of pronotal disk 2.3 2.8 Length of caudal femur 10.3 1.6 In addition to the type and allotype we have before us a paratypic pair one the male  dated January 17 1912 which show no noteworthy differences from the type material except that the male has the general coloration more olivaceous but this we feel is due to drying.
Bucephalacris falcifer n. sp.
PI.
I figs.
32 33.
Apparently a near relative of B. corallipes Bruner' from Corumba Brazil agreeing in the robust form the closely veined tegmina and the coral red caudal tibiae.
The new form differs however from corallipes in the female sex the only one known of corallipes having the head higher than wide in the eyes being less than twice as long as the cephalic margin of the cheek in the fastigium being distinctly broader than long in the unhanded pronotum and in the longer tegmina.
Type d Para State of Para Brazil.
C. F.
Baker.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5288.
Size small form robust surface of face lower portion of gense pronotum and pleura closely but not very deeply cribrosopunctate occiput very shallowly punctate.
Occiput arcuatobullate well elevated dorsad of pronotal level at highest point faintly flattened interocular portion of vertex very narrow hardly more than onefourth the width of the proximal antennal joint weakly sulcate in caudal section fastigium very faintly declivent the greatest length subequal to the greatest width in general form pentagonal the cephalic margin strongly truncate and appreciably cingulate the surface impressed weakly nodulose and with a short rather fine mediolongitudinal carina frontal costa dorsad four times as broad as the interocular space and subequal in width ventrad to the median ocellus ventrad of which the margins are strongly constricted then diverging an equal amount and obsolete ventrad of this point the interantennal section of the costa is excavatosulcate distinctly punctate surrounding the ocellus the surface is impressopunctate thence faintly sulcate for a short distance and then passing into the punctate face lateral facial carinae indicated but developed only as an angle of the face moderately diverging ventrad punctate as the face  eyes quite prominent more than twice as long as the infraocular portion of the gense in basal outline broad ovate slightly flattened cephalad  antennaelacking.
Pronotum narrower than the caudal width of head faintly constricted mesad the greatest dorsal width of disk 30 Ann.
Carneg.
Mus. VIII p. 93 1911.
very slightly less than the greatest dorsal length  cephalic margin of clisk obtusely produced with a very broad shallow emargination  caudal margin of disk very broadly obtuseangulate  median carina faintly indicated cephalad more distinctly so on the metazona obsolete mesad transverse sulci well impressed metazona slightly more than onehalf of the prozonal length  lateral lobes with the greatest dorsal length subequal to the greatest depth cephalic margin of lobes straight slightly oblique ventrocephalic angle nearly rectangulate ventral margin obliquely concaveemarginate cephalad median angle distinct but obtuse this margin obliquely subarcuate caudad ventrocaudal angle obtuse caudal margin straight vertical.
Tegmina reaching to the apex of the supraanal plate moderately broad distal fourfifths weakly tapering apex rounded venation close particularly proximad.
Wings reaching to the tips of the tegmina very broad the greatest width contained one and twofifths times in the greatest length distal section of anterior and portion of radiate fields subtruncate.
Prosternal spine very robust short rather bltmt faintly transverse compressed interspace between the mesosternal lobes with cephalic width faintly greater than the depth the caudal width very much greater the interspace regularly narrowing cephalad median width of interspace very faintly less than that of one of .the lobes ventrointernal angle of the lobes broadly obtuse  metasternal lobes touching caudad.
Supraanal plate with the greatest proximal width subequal to the greatest length lateral margin suljparallel proximad then moderately and regularly narrowing distal extremity rather broad arcuatotruncate the surface with a pair of shining black tubercles placed mesad at the distal third proximad the same plate has indications of a mediolongituclinal impression flanked laterad by a pair of low rounded ridges margins slightly thickened and elevated cerci robust flattened and broad proximad in general form subfalcate the tip directed dorsad strongly tapering from the broad base to the median section thence weakly tapering to the subacute apex when viewed from the dorsum the general form of the cercus is straight proximad then incurved and last with the chstal fourth straight the arcuate distal margin of the broad proximal portion bears several blunt teeth pallium greatly produced in an erect distad compressed falciform process considerably surpassing the subgenital plate in form this process is gently tapering with a moderately acute apex subgenital plate short well 31 See Scudder Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XX p. 8 1897.
rounded when seen from the side the dorsal free margin Vshaped the apex faintly rostrate produced the proximal section of the Vform of the margin slightly embracing the ventral ridge of the palHum.
Cephalic and median limbs moderately robust.
Caudal femora moderately robust very faintly shorter than the tegmina the greatest depth contained three and onehalf times in the length of the same genicular lobes moderately acute external face regularly patterned caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora armed on the external margin with six spines internal margin with eight spines caudal tarsi very slender and elongate the proximal and second joints subequal in length.
Allotype 9  Igarapeassii State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Differing from the description of the type in the following features.
Size medium.
Interocular portion ofthe vertex slightly wider than the proximal antennal joint weakly sulcate fastigium distinctly but not strongly transverse  frontal costa twice as wide as the interocular portion of the vertex of similar structure to that of the male but the broad portion is plane and nonsulcate roughly biseriate punctate ventracl of the ocellus even more strongly constricted and sulcate than in the male thence obsolete eyes less prominent than in the male one and twothirds times as long as the infraocular portion of the gense in basal outline slightly broader proportionately than in the male  antennae nearly twice as long as the head and pronotum together very slender filiform.
Pronotum with the median carina obsolete except on the metazona where it is weak but distinct lateral lobes with the greatest depth very faintly greater than the greatest dorsal length of the same.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes with its cephalic width equal to about one and onethird times the greatest length of the same the form of which latter expands caudad metasternal.
lobes separated by an interspace which at its narrowest point caudad is subequal to its greatest length.
Ovipositor valves robust short the external margins of the dorsal valves crenulate.
General color of the female saccardo olive becoming weakly mummy brown on the dorsum of the pronotum and faintly so on the face of the male on the head pronotum and pleura dusky olivegreen on tegmina buffy citrine.
Eyes cinnamonbrown d to prout's brown 9 antennae fuscous becoming black distad with the extreme apex narrowly vinaceousrufous proximal joint more cf  or less  9  completely raw sienna.
Wings very weakly washed with fuscous this more apparent along the costal margin and broaclly around the peripherj veins fuscous.
Abdomen dresden brown cf  to brownish olive 9 the ventral surface faintly more greenish distal section of the margin of the male supraanal plate raised points on the same and distal extremity of the cerci black.
Cephalic and median limbs of the general coloration caudal femora hellebore green  9  or light hellebore green cf  the distal extremity english red cT to mahogany red 9 the genicular arches weakly greenish in the female this weakly suffusing the lobes as well caudal tibiae and tarsi nopal red spines black tipped.
Measurements in millimeters .
cf 9 Type Allotype Length of body 17.6 25.8 Length of pronotum 3.4 5 Greatest dorsal width of pronotal disk 2.8 4.4 Length of tegmen 11 14.8 Length of caudal femur 10.5 14 The type and allotype are the only specimens of this species we have seen.
Vilerna seneooculata DeGeer.
1773.
Acrydium ceneooculatum DeGeer Mem.
Hist.
Ins. Ill p. 502 pi.
42 fig.
11.
Surinam.
Igarapeassu.
One male.
This specimen is somewhat smaller than British Guiana individuals of the same sex but is clearly the same species.
This Guianan type is known to range south as far as Chapada Matto Grosso and Rio de Janeiro Brazil.
Abracris dilecta Walker.
1870.
Ahracris dilecta Walker Catal.
Dermapt.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus. IV p. 642.
Santarem Brazil.
Igarapeassu.
January 17 1912 one.
Two females.
These specimens are inseparable from a cotypic female of the synonymous meridionalis from Demerara kindly loaned by Prof. Bruner.
Abracris caeruleipennis Bruner.
1900.
Jodacris ' ccerideipennis Bruner Second Rep. Merchants Loc.
Invest.
Comm.
Buenos Aires p. 68.
Asuncion Paraguay Territory of Formosa Argentina.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male one female.
31 See Rehn Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLII p. 294 1916.
Igarapeassu.
January 17 and February 1 1912.
Three males six females.
These specimens have been compared with a typical pair a female from Asuncion Paraguay and a male from San Bernardino Paraguay loaned by Prof. Bruner from which they show no important differences although they are rather different in coloration.
The Para female has the base color pale ochraceous with no distinct markings on the body and the external face of the caudal femora unmarked.
The male from the same locality has a decidedly varied pattern of the usual contrasted type of the genus and a distinct oblique dark bar on the external face of the caudal femora which marking extends to the base as a fine line.
The Igarapeassu males are duller and darker than the Para male but are much more variegated than the females.
The external femoral bars are present in all of these continued to the base by a fine line in one.
The Igarapeassii females are very dark and dull very little contrasted and with the pale paired thoracic lines completely or nearly completely effaced.
The color wash of the proximal portion of the wings in all the specimens as in the tjTical material is more bottle green than blue as originally described.
The same is true of material from other localities in Paraguay and southern Brazil.
The ventroexternal face of the caudal femora is variable in the extent to which it is suffused with fuscous or blackish.
It is always touched with darker in the punctations of the distal twothirds of the area which tendency becomes more pronounced and extensive until in the extreme condition that section is almost uniformly colored but it is never as sharply defined laterad as solid or as solid to the base of the femur as in nebulosa chapadensis dilecta and obliqua.
This feature is the one referred to by us as showing variability in the coloration of this margin.Osmilia flavolineata DeGeer.
1773.
Acrydium flavolinealum DeGeer Mem.
Hist.
Ins. Ill p. 497 pi.
42 fig.
4.
Surinam.
Igarapeassu.
January 17 1912 one.
Thirteen males twelve females one juv.
male one juv.
female.
These specimens have the disk of the vnng more bluish green than in typical individuals of flavolineata in which the same area is yellowish although with a green tinge the present specimens being 32Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1907 p. 186 1907.
Tlie material there recorded as signatipes as we have shown elsewhere Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLII p. 294 1916 belongs to cceruleipennis and chapadensis.
terreverte as opposed to oliveyellow Ridgway.
The bluish tone however is more nearly that of typical Uavolineata than the dark tyrian blue Ridgway of violacea Thunberg.
We refer the Igarapeassu series to flavolineata but do not consider it tjpical as we do material from lower Amazonia and the Guianas.
It is possible that flavolineata and violacea may be geographic races of the same species and the present series may show a step in the intergradation but until more material from a number of additional localities is in hand this cannot be more than suggested.
The present series shows the usual amount of structural and general brownish color variation in tone and tegminal maculation found in forms of this genus.
We feel that this genus should be placed near Ahracris to which it is undoubtedly close in relationship.
Sitalces ovatipennis Bruner.
1908.
Sitalces ovatipennis Bruner Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. II p. 291.
British Guiana.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male one female.
Igarapeassu.
Three males three females.
This material has been compared with paratypic specimens from Bartica British Guiana.
While they are always minute the tegmina vary greatly in their exact shape and relative size.
There is quite a little variation in the extent to which the blackish of the postocular regions and lateral lobes suffuses the dorsum of the thoracic segments and the proximal abdominal segments.
This is continuous across the dorsum in some individuals except for the pale longitudinal lines and in others is there completely replaced by olivaceous.
This is always correlated with general pattern depth and the two represent intensive and recessive extremes.
The species is here first recorded from Brazil.
Sitalces jugatus n. sp.
PI.
I figs.
34 35.
A striking apterous species belonging to the section of the genus containing S. apterus Scudder debilis Rehn and probably others.
From apterus it differs in the slightly narrower dorsal section of the frontal costa in the female in the larger auditory tympanum more slender shaft of the cercus in the male in the relatively shorter and more robust caudal femora of the male the more slender caudal tarsi of the same sex and in some chfference in the color pattern of  We have examined one male and one female of the original one male and two females of this species which was described as an Ommatolampis Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. XVII p. 273 1875 and find it is a Sitalces.
Its relationship to jugatus can be determined from the above diagnosis.
the male.
The latter feature consists of the pale callose area in jugatus being present only on the pleura while in apterus the ventral portion of the lateral lobes is of similar character.
From debilis the new species can be readily separated by its more finely rugosopunctate surface much more declivent fastigium more prominent eyes less apparent median carina of the pronotum more elongate auditory tympanum less strongly carinate dorsal line of the abdomen stouter female cerci the more acute extremity of the prosternal process the less decidedly serrate character of the ventral margin of the caudal femora and the reddish brown coloration.
As the male of debilis is unknown we cannot compare that sex.
Bruner's nudus from Santarem may be closely related but such information as we are able to secure from his very incomplete and not at all convincing remarks on that species seems to point to their being different.
Type cf Igarapeassu State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci Phila. Type no.
5291.
Size large for the genus form robust surface of head largely of dorsal thoracic and single proximal abdominal segments strongly rugulosopunctate other proximal abdominal segments faintly sculptured dorsad.
Head with the occiput not elevated dorsad of the pronotum distinctly declivent to and including the vertex and fastigium interocular width of the vertex very narrow equal to less than onehalf of the interantennal width of the costa finely sulcate fastigium rather short broader than long cephaKc bounding margin of the impressopunctate surface rectangulate with a fine median continuation of the sulcus of the vertex frontal costa faintly produced between the antennal bases fastigiofacial angle obtuse facial line considerably retreating dorsoocellar section of the costa subequal in width broad wider than the proximal antennal joint nonsulcate thickly punctate surface impressed about ocellus the margins of the costa compressed immediately ventrad of the same briefly sulcate thence costa is obsolete eyes quite prominent ovate in basal outline the length twice that of the infraocular portion of the gense  antennse filiform elongate in length twice as long as the head and pronotum together.
Pronotum subcylindrical moderately expanding caudad the greatest caudal width of the disk subequal to the dorsal length of the same in transverse section faintly tectate dorsal margin ofpronotal disk arcuate produced faintly and broadly emarginate mesad caudal margin subtruncate with a very broad and shallow median emargination median carina faintly and rather irregularly indicated no trace of lateral carinse on shoulders transverse sulci distinct but rather finely and narrowly impressed metazona hardly more than a fourth the length of the remainder of the pronotum lateral lobes with their greatest depth subequal to twothirds of the greatest dorsal length of the same cephalic margin oblique ventrocephalic angle rounded obtuse ventral margin distinctly arcuatoemarginate oblique cephalad median angle rounded obtuse caudal section of the ventral margin oblique arcuatotruncate ventrocaudal angle broadly rounded obtuse.
Tegmina and wings absent.
Proximal abdominal segment with distinct lateral subcircular auditory tympani.
Prosternal spine moderately elongate erect conical acute interspace between the mesosternal lobes quadrate smaller than one of the lobes metasternal lobes narrowly separated caudad surface of mesosternum and metasternum more or less shagreenous the cephalic half of the mesosternum strongly and closely so.
Distodorsal abdominal segment with the furcula represented by a pair of the merest nodes between which the segment is moderately emarginate supraanal plate elongate trigonal apex narrowly rounded lateral margins with a weak shoulder at twofifths the length from the base surface with a broad mediolongitudinal sulcus on proximal half a pair of intermarginal straight converging impressions which on account of the shoulder on the lateral margin are more removed from the latter proximad than distad and the distal area enclosed by the impressions faintly elevated and its surface weakly impressed cerci short rather robust when seen from the dorsum compressed having the proximal half straight and the distal section directed obliquely mesocaudad when seen from the lateral aspect having the proximal half deep and weakly narrowing distad a short blunt tooth present ventrad on the external face at the point of flexure of the cercus the distal half narrowing to the blunt but acuminate apex ventral margin of the distal half with a distinct blunted but acuminate tooth this much like the true apex in character  subgenital tooth simple hardly produced free margin distinctly emarginatotruncate mesad the lateral angles being low nodes.
Cephalic and median femora robust inflated the median ones particularly so.
Caudal femora about twice as long as the head and pronotum together moderately robust the greatest width contained three and onehalf times in the greatest femoral length dorsal carina with a series of distinct spaced serrations and an intercalated series of serrulations ventral carina similarly but more decidedly armed particularly distad pagina evenly and deeply engraved genicular lobes with the distal portion of the 14 ventral margin distinctly concave apex bluntly acuteangulate caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora moderately sinuate faintly expanded distad external margin with seven spines internal margin with nine spines caudal tarsi slender elongate metatarsus and second oint subequal in length to the third joint.
General color of the dorsum of the thoracic and proximal abdominal segments pale morocco red.
General color of the head and abdomen oil yellow on the occiput and postocular region of the head dull blackish green venter aniline yellow cephalic and median femora light cadmium passing to pyrite yellow on the tibise caudal femora sulphine yellow proximad passing regularly to olivegreen distad caudal tibise and all tarsi olivegreen mesopleura with a decided subcircular spot of buff yellow at the base of the median femora.
The clypeal suture and the ventral margin of the gense are lined with black and the antennal fossae washed with the same antennae of the color of the face proximad passing to bay mesad and distad eyes burnt sienna.
Abdomen with the proximal segments margined with black the median segments with paired circular to ovate black spots disposed along the median line distodorsal abdominal segment lined with black next to the supraanal plate the extreme tip of the latter similarly blackened cerci with the points black tipped.
Caudal femora with the genicular arches black and a cloud of similar character crossing the base of the genicular lobes caudal tibiae with the spines black tipped.
Allotype 9  same data as type.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila.
The characters here discussed are supplementary to those given for the male sex.
Form very robust  sculpturing as in the male but more decided on the abdominal segments.
Interocular width of the vertex slightly more than onehalf the interantennal width of the frontal costa weakly sulcate to bisulcate caudad fastigium nearly twice as broad as long cephalic bounding margin of the impressopunctate surface obtuseangulate  frontal costa thickly impressopunctate dorsad faintly narrowed at junction with fastigium eyes slightly less prominent than in the male their length nearly twice that of the infraocular portion of the genae antennae about one and onehalf times as long as the head and pronotum together.
Pronotum with the greatest caudal width of the disk slightly greater than the greatest length of the same in transverse section arched cephalic margin of pronotal disk hardly emarginate caudal margin less distinctly emarginate than in the male transverse carina well indicated but more delicate than in the male lateral lobes slightly deeper in proportion to the length than in the male.
Prosternal spine more acicukte than in the male interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly transverse subequal in width to one of the lobes metasternal lobes separated caudad by a width equal to onehalf that between the mesosternal lobes surface of the sternum punctate instead of shagreenous.
Abdomen distinctly carinate mesad to the penultimate segment supraanal plate subtectate in section elongate trigonal in general form distal section moderately produced caudad with the apex broadly rounded proximal half with a distinct mediolongitudinal impression laterad with distinct carinae which form the proximolateral point of the plate thence strongly converge to the mechan longitudinal section of the plate represented distad by parallel rounded shoulders ventrolaterad of which the plate is subcompressed  cerci short broad at base tapering the apex blunted  ovipositor jaws moderately compressed dorsolateral margins of the dorsal valves faintly and irregularly crenulate.
Cephalic and median limbs normal not inflated as in the male rather short.
Caudal femora as in the male but differing in the ventral carina having smaller but more numerous teeth.
General color of head thoracic and abdominal segments and cephalic Hmbs bay shading to auburn in places the venter passing to mununy brovn.
Fastigium sanford's brown eyes bronzy argus brown antennae of the general color paler proximad clypeal suture black mesad and laterad the paired black spots found on the fourth fifth and sixth segments in the male represented by smaller and weaker dots.
Median limbs paler than the cephalic ones more yellow ocher.
Caudal femora bay with the dorsal face sanford's brown the genicular arches black the lobes blackish with a decided green tinge caudal tibiae and tarsi cedar green the distal portion black the spines black tipped.
Measurements j.n millimeters.
cf 9 Type Allotype Length of body 17 21.4 Length of pronotum 4 4.3 Greatest dorsal caudal width of pronotal disk 3.5 4.7 Length of caudal femur 11.4 12.5 ' In addition to the type and allotype we have examined four male and two female paratjTes.
Of these one male bears an exact date January 21 1912.
The series is quite uniform in coloration shows no noteworthy variation in structure and exhibits but a negligible amount in size.
A single female from Peixe Boi east of Para State of Para Brazil November to December 1907 H. B. Merrill in the collection of the Academy is inseparable from the typical Igarapeassu series.
TETTIGONIID.
Phaneropterinae.
Ceraia capra n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
36 37.
While we have only the female sex of this species its description is justified by the peculiar and unique form of the subgenital plate and also by the ambisexual characters separating it from the allied species known only from the male.
It is apparently nearest to C. punctulata and dentata Brunner but from the former it differs in the annulate antennae in the lateral lobes of the pronotum being roundly inserted cephalad in the greater number of spines on the ventral margin of the caudal femora in the metasternal lobes being rounded instead of trigonal in the ventral margin of the ovipositor being crenulate but a short distance distad in the deeply fissate and bicorniform subgenital plate and in the somewhat greater size.
From deniaia the new form can be readily cUstinguished by the angulate instead of rotundate mesosternal lobes.
Type 9  Igarapeassii State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5310.
Size moderately large form well compressed surface somewhat polished.
Head moderately arcuate weakly elevated dorsad of the general level of the pronotal disk fastigium subhorizontal narrow compressed particularly proximad sulcate the apex faintly bulbous narrowly in contact with the compressed and slender facial fastigium eyes but moderately prominent when seen from the dorsum basal outline subcircular the depth subequal to that of the infraocular portion of the gense antennae broken.
Pronotum with the disk deplanate dorsad greatest caudal width of cUsk contained one and onethird times in the greatest length of the same cephalic margin of disk emarginatotruncate caudal margin strongly arcuate forming more than the quadrant of a circle lateral angles of disk rounded broadly so cephalad more narrowly so caudad surface of disk hardly punctulate cephalad median figure broadly Ushaped deeply impressed lateral lobes with their greatest depth distinctly greater than the greatest length cephalic margin appreciably sinuate ventrocephalic angle very broadly arcuatorotundate ventral margin broadly rounded subrectangulate ventrocaudal section and ventral margin to shortly ventrad of the humeral sinus oblique arcuatotruneate the infrahumeral section of the margin distinct obtuseangulate the humeral sinus rectangulate with the immediate angle rounded.
Tegmina surpassing the apices of the caudal femora by about the length of the pronotal disk in form somewhat elongate lanceolate the greatest width contained three and onethird times in the tegminal length costal margin gently arcuate in distal half nearly straight in proximal half sutural margin distad of the anal field straight except for the oblique arcuatotruncate distal fifth apex rotundatorectangulate situated nearer the costal than the main portion of the sutural margin mediastine vein short irregular ramose humeral and discoidal veins contiguous in proximal twofifths  median vein diverging slightly proximad of proximal twofifths of length bifurcate the rami reaching the sutural margin ulnar vein straight except for brief distal arcuation transverse nervures numerous and regular in discoidal field.
Wings surpassing the tegmina in length by a distance nearly equal to the dorsal length of the pronotum apex moderatelj acute.
Prosternum unspined mesosternum with the lobes rotundatoacuteangulate metasternum with the lobes rounded laterad and caudad hardly any caudomedian production indicated.
Abdomen with the distodorsal abdominal segment faintly tectate in section weakly produced mesad with a distinct but not wide rectangulate emargination which is bordered laterad by low rounded thickened areas of the margin reflexed toward the ventral surface supraanal plate reflexed trigonal cerci simple crassate tapering to delicate apices gently arcuate ovipositor slightly more than half again as long as the dorsum of the pronotum regularly narrowing in depth distad the proximal half moderately arcuate distal half straight the immediate apex obliquely subtruncate the apex distal portion of dorsal margin and apex of ventral valves serrulatodenticulate  subgenital plate elongate compressed fissate for about onehalf its length the resultant lateral lobes diverging and embracing the base of the ovipositor each regularly tapering in width to the subaciculate apex.
Cephalic and median femora unarmed beneath cephalic tibiae with four spines on the dorsocaudal margin median tibiae with five to six spines on the same margin.
Caudal femora slightlj' more than twothirds as long as the tegmina robust in proximal half genicular lobes short bispinose ventroexternal margin of caudal femora with eight short flattened sublamellate spines ventrointernal margin with ten similar spines.
Tarsi without arolia.
General color of the body and femora yellow ocher doubtless changed from green by drying the caudal section of the pronotum tegmina except for yellowish wash proximad and tibiae warbler green Ridgway becoming olivegreen distad on the tegmina.
Eyes chestnut brown antennae multiannulate with fuscous only proximal portion of antennae remaining.
Tegmina with a longitudinally disposed series of small fuscous spots between the discoidal and median and ulnar veins these placed one in each quadrate space and the series weaker proximad distad not reaching the apex a few weak scattered similar spots in the ulnaranal area.
Ovipositor with the margins edged with mummy brown infracereal plates fuscous proximad.
Cephalic tibiae with foramina fuscous tilial spines ochraceous narrowly tipped with black caudal femora with the vicinity of the bases of the ventral spines auburn.
Length of body exclusive of ovipositor 28.6 min.
 length of pronotum 7.2 greatest caudal width of pronotal disk 5.8 length of tegmen 45.5 greatest width of tegmen 10.4 length of caudal femur 32.8 length of ovipositor 11.3.
The type of this species is unique.
Parableta integricauda Brunner.
1878.
Parableta integricauda Brunner Monogr.
der Phaneropt. p. 254 pi.
V fig.
78.
Ecuador Surinam.
Igarapeassii.
One male.
So far as we are able to determine from the description of this species the Igarapeassii specimen belongs here.
The eyes however are not black but auburn while the tegmina show but two groups of purplish bordered spots along the ulnar vein.
Each of these groups is composed of two distinct spots in contact with each other except for the separation of the vein the sutural one in each case larger than the other.
The only previous exact records are from Coca Bolivar and Valley of Santiago GiglioTos Ecuador.
Scaphura sphex n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
3840.
Allied to S. nitida possessing the same polished surface of the body tegmina and exposed portions of the wings the distinctive translucence or even transparency of the tegmina and form of the same as well as the characteristic structure of the pronotum.
The tegminal corrugations are similar in the two species.
From nitida sphex differs in the relatively broader tegmina which are also yellowish hyaline except in the suffused distal fourth in the wings being hyaline in the same proportion when at rest as the tegmina in the less thickly plumose proximal section of the antennae in the more prominent eyes in the more slender limbs and in features of the coloration which need not be emphasized on account of color variability in the genus.
Walker's Aganacris micans may be related but the description does not mention the peculiar hyaline character of the tegmina and Avings the former of which is said to be black with a cupreous tinge the latter blackish.
Type cf  Igarapeassu State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5303.
Size medium form compressed surface highly polished the head ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum venter apex of abdomen and limbs with a greater or lesser amount of whitish pile.
Head with the occiput rather strongly inflated moderately declivent to the fastigium fastigium but slightly produced subcompressed strongly declivent acuminate when seen from the dorsum the apex narrowly but strongly rounded strongly sulcate ventrad rather broadly in contact with the slightly acute fastigium of the face median ocellus large lateral ocelli large ovate separated by the fastigium alone palpi elongate slender fifth joint slightly more than half again as long as the third joint eyes large prominent ovate in basal outline their depth about twice that of the infraocular portion of the genae antennae incomplete proximad moderately plumose.
Pronotum short sellate with the peculiar structural details found in S. nitida when seen from the side the dorsum is strongly concave in cephalic half and deplanate caudad greatest caudal width of the disk equal to about fourfifths the greatest length of the same cephalic margin of the disk subtruncate caudal margin strongly arcuate transverse impression broad rounded its center at about cephalic fourth lateral portions of disk in cephalic half strongly rounded into the lobes caudad are present distinct angles which are chrected mesocephalad these passing into the rounded portion metazona of disk slightly impressed lateral lobes of the pronotum with the greatest depth one and onehalf times in the greatest length of the same the transverse impression of the dorsum strongly continued on the lateral lobes caudad of which the surface is somewhat bullate cephalic margin of the lobes sigmoid concave dorsad convex ventrad ventrocephalic angle rounded obtuse ventral margin arcuate oblique ventrocaudal margin very broadly rounded caudal margin slightly 54 Catal.
Dermap.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus. V p. 41 1871.
oblique sinuatotruncate humeral sinus rectangulate.
Tegmina surpassing the apices of the caudal femora by somewhat more than the length of the pronotal disk of the peculiar crinkled character found in S. nitida this being regular proximad in the discoidal field irregular distad and in the costal field greatest width of the tegmina at the distal fourth contained nearly four and threequarters times in the greatest length costal margin straight arcuate briefly arcuate proximad and in the distal fourth apex well rounded sutural portion of apex oblique subtruncate sutural margin concavotruncate  mediastine vein weak but distinct humeral and discoidal veins not in contact median vein diverging from the discoidal vein at the proximal third bifurcate faintly before its middle ulnar vein bior triramose stridulating field with the free margin but faintly produced at the apex of the stridulating vein distad of this gently arcuate stridulating vein nearly transverse greatly thickened subfusiform speculum greatly elongate narrow proximad of the stridulating vein the field is subcoriaceous.
Wings projecting distad of the tegmina a distance less than the length of the disk of the pronotum the apex narrowly rounded.
Prosternum elevated in a Vshaped structure unarmed mesosternal lobes truncate laterad rounded rectangulate distolaterad  metasternal lobes narrow obliquely arcuate.
Distodorsal abdominal segment arcuateemarginate laterad the distal margin subtruncate mesad a weak mediolongitudinal impression present subgenital plate deflexed trigonal cerci simple tapering arcuate dorsad the apices very briefly spiniform subgenital plate narrow produced attenuate mesad projecting almost to the tips of the cerci the distal margin strongly arcuateemarginate styles short articulate.
Limbs slender cephalic femora subcompressed moderately deep cephalic tibiae with the tympana large reniform caudal femora nearly twothirds as long as the tegmina moderately inflated proximad very slender distad ventroexternal margin with six to nine ventrointernal margin with four spines.
General color shining blue black the pubescence of the body and limbs white the plumosity of the antennae black.
Head with a pair of infraocular lines of hazel the clypeus and labrum marked with the same to ochraceousbuff palpi incompletely lined dorsad with ochraceousbuff eyes cinnamonbrown.
Pronotum with the ventral portion of the lateral lobes narrowly margined with naples yellow.
Tegmina faintly buffy hyaline in the proximal threefourths distal fourth strongly washed with blackish fuscous humeral discoidal ulnar and anal veins and rami prominently lined with walnut brown to blackish fuscous stridulating field similar in tone to the discoidal threefourths of the tegmina stridulating vein broadly black opaque area proximad of same bright mustard yellow bordering veins of speculum lined with fuscous first axillary distad with dragon'sblood red second with black.
Wings with base tint as in tegmina the veins lined with russet.
Metapleura marked dorsolaterad with two points of mustard yellow.
Abdomen with two proximal segments with paired dots of mustard yellow on dorsal surface.
Coxal region marked more or less strongly with the same color.
Venter of abdomen obscurely buffy.
Median femora faintly and brokenly lined with mustard yellow on cephalic surface caudal femora at proximal fourth with sublunate spot on mustard yellow on dorsal face.
Length of body 16.2 mm.
 length of pronotum 4 greatest width of pronotal disk 3.2 length of tegmen 24 greatest Avidth of tegmen 5.2 length of caudal femur 15.5.
The type of this striking and remarkable mimetic species is unique.
The resemblance of it to certain sphecoid wasps is most extraordinary and suggested the specific name.
Stilpnochlora marginella Serville.
1839.
Phylloptera marginella Serville Hist.
Nat.
Ins. Orth. p. 405.
Cape of Good Hope.
Igarapeassu.
One male.
For comments on this species and close relatives see a recent summarj by the author Anaulacomera nodulosa Stai.
1873.
Anaulacomera nodulosa Stl Ofvers.
K. Vetensk.Akad.
Forhandl. XXX p. 43.
Surinam.
Igarapeassii.
January 17 and February 1 1912 two specimens.
Four males four females.
These specimens are referred to Stal's species with some uncertainty as they are all larger than Stal's measurements although certain individuals are comparable with the dimensions given by Brunner for the species.
The species much resembles A. albonodulosa but has the fastigium proportionately shorter and thicker the pronotum shorter the cerci briefer and not completely curved and the tegminal venation coarser.
The species has been definitely recorded from Surinam also Paramaribo and Chapada Matto Grosso Brazil.
Viadana myrtifolia Linnseus.
1758.
Gryllus Tettigonia myrtifolius Linnseus Syst.
Nat. X ed. p. 429.
Surinam.
35Entom.
News XXVIII pp.
107 to 11.3 1917.
Igarapeassu.
One female.
A male from Paramaribo Surinam K. Mayo in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences is specifically identical with the Igarapeassu female.
The species has been recorded from Surinam Cayenne and Para Brazil.
Coelophyllum' coriaceum Pictst.
1888.
Prosagoga coriacea Pictet Mem.
Soc.
Phys.
Hist.
Nat.
Geneve XXX No.
6 p. 9 pi.
1 figs.
2 2a.
Guiana.
Igarapeassu.
January 17 1912.
One female.
This is apparently the first record of the species since the original description.
Coelophyllum rectinerve Brunner.
1891.
Prosagoga rectinervis Brunner Verh.
k.k. zool.botan.
Gesell.
Wien XLI pp.
170 171.
Upper Amazonas.
Igarapeassu.
One male one female.
We have before us another female from Chanchamayo Peru which fully agrees with the Igarapeassu individuals.
The male is faintly smaller than the original measurements for that sex but otherwise the specimens are in complete accord with the description.
The range of the species is now known to extend from the upper reaches of the Amazon to its mouth.
Pseudophyllinae.
Acanthodis aquilina Linnaeus.
1758.
Gryllus TeUigonia aquilinus Linnsus Syst.
Nat. X ed. p. 430.
Indiis.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male.
This specimen is inseparable from an individual of the same sex from Cayenne determined and presented to the Academy by Saussure.
The species is known from localities extending from the mouth to the upper portion of the Amazon north to the Guianas and Venezuela Merida.
Leurophyllum consanguineum Serville.
1839.
Acanthodis consanguinea Serville Hist.
Nat.
Ins. Orth. p. 454.
Unknown locality.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male one immature male.
This species is known to range from southeastern Brazil north to Cayenne west to eastern Ecuador.
Leurophyllum maculipenne Serville.
1839.
Platyphyllum maculipenne Serville Hist.
Nat.
Ins. Orth. p. 447.
Brazil.
3 See Rehn Entom.
News XXVIII p. 152 1917.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male one female.
Igarapeassii.
January 29 1912 one specimen.
Three females.
This striking and beautiful species is well distributed over the Amazonian and Guianan regions.
Bliastes submarginatus Walker.
1870.
Meroncidius siihmarginatus Walker Catal.
Spec.
Derm.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus. Ill p. 4.50.
Para Braail.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One female.
Kirby has placed Bliastes limbatus Brunner described from Para as a synonym of submarginatus  with which action we fully agree.
In the present specimen the caudal genicular lobes of the median femora are spined and the spines on the ventrocephalic margin of the cephalic and median femora numler three instead of four as described bj Brunner.
Teleutias aduncus Stai.
1874.
Teleidias aduncus Stal Recens.
Orth. II p. 88.
Unknown locality.
1 Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male.
This specimen fully agrees with the original description and the later one by Brunner.
This is the first exact locality known for the species which was recorded by Brunner from Upper Amazonia.
Diophanes salvifolium Lichtenstein. 
1796.
Locusta salnfolia Lichtenstein Catal.
Mus.
Hamburg III p.
82.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One female.
This specimen has the wings with a complete but narrow distal and peripheral edging of whitish while the hyaline character of the interspaces of the axillary and radiate fields of the wings is very pronounced.
Copiphorinse.
Copiphora cornuta DeGeer.
1773.
Locusta cornuta DeGeer Mem.
Hist.
Ins. Ill p. 441 pi.
37 fig.
7.
Surinam.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male.
Igarapeassu.
One female.
These specimens are fully typical of the species except that the dorsocaudal margin of the median tibiae bear four to five spines in the Para individual and five in that from Igarapeassu.
The presence of but three spines on this margin has been considered diagno.stic of this species by Karny but reliance cannot be placed on the number of marginal spines in this instance as in many others the material before us showing sufficient variation to nullify the  Synon.
Catal.
Orth. II p. 331 1906.
diagnostic value of this feature.
We have also before us for study a pair from Paramaribo Surinam K. Mayo and a female from Bartica British Guiana March 25 1913 H. S. Parish all belonging to the Academy.
The five specimens show there is a very decided amount of variation in the intensity of the tuberculation of the fastigium but all are clearly referable to the same species.
Both Guianan females have three spines on the dorsocaudal margin of the median tibise while the Paramaribo male has three spines on this margin on one limb and four on the other.
The species has already been recorded from Para by Walker and Bruner.
Acantheremus elegans Kamy.
1907.
Acantheremus elegans Karny Abhandl.
k.k. zool.botan.
Gesell.
Wien IV heft 3 p. 9 fig.
1.
Surinam.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One female.
This specimen fully agrees with the original description of the species differing only in the slightly greater size of the specimen before us.
Neoconocephalus nigropunctatus Redtenbacher.
1891.
Conocephalus nigropunctatus Redtenbacher Verhandl.
k.k. zool.botan.
Gesell.
Wien XLI pp.
380 391 pi.
Ill fig.
32.
Upper Amazon Brazil Surinam Cuba Cayenne.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
Three males one female.
Benevides Parc4.
H. H.
Smith.
Two males.
U. S. N. M. Contamano Rio Ucayali Peru.
October to December 1912.
One male two females.
The Contamano specimens have been immersed in a liciuid preservative and in consequence all have lost their original coloration but they are identical with the Para male and all fully agree with the original description.
Bruner has recorcled the species from Para and Benevides.
Neoconocephalus fratellus Griffini.
1891.
Conocephalus frater Redtenbacher not of Kirby 1890 Verhandl.
k.k. zool.botan.
Gesell.
Wien XLI pp.
381 399.
Cuba St. Vincent Lesser Antilles Trinidad Brazil Upper Amazons.
1899.
Conocephalus fratellus GriflSni Misc.
Entom. VII p. 5.
New name.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male.
The tegmina are appreciably shorter in this specimen than the measurements given for those of the same sex by Redtenbacher otherwise the specimen is typical.
58 Ann.
Carneg.
Mus. IX p. 392 1915.
Homorocoryphus cocanus Bolivar.
1881.
Conocephalus cocanus Bolivar Anale.s Soc.
Espafi.
Hist.
Nat. X p. 497.
Coca Ecuador.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
Three males two females.
Para.
Thayer Expedition.
One female.
M. C.
Z.
These specimens have been compared with a male from Chanchamayo Peru in the collection of the Academy and found to be inseparable.
The species was recorded from Cayenne by Redtenbacher.
Homorocoryphus brunneri Redtenbacher.
1891.
Conocephalus brunneri Redtenbacher Verhandl.
k.k. zool.botan.
Gesell.
Wien XLI pp.
385 423.
Theresopolis Brazil Upper Amazons Buenos Aires and Rosario Argentina Yalapa.
Igarapeassu.
One female.
Listroscelinse.
Phlugis marginata Redtenbacher.
1891.
Thysdrus viarginalus Redtenbacher Verhandl.
k.k. zool.botan.
Gesell.
Wien XLI pp.
534 537.
Upper Amazonia.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One female.
This specimen the first known from an exact locality fully agrees with the original description except that the caudal femora are slightly shorter.
Phlugis chelifera n. sp.
PL II figs.
4143.
Closely related to P. abnorfms Redtenbacher from Retalulen'' but differing in the somewhat smaller size in the male cerci being quite short not a quarter as long as the subgenital plate in the internal projection of the paired processes of the distodorsal abdominal segment of the male being flattened vertical clecurved plates instead of spiniform and in the subgenital plate of the same sex having the expanded distal section proportionately shorter and more sharply expanded the proximal angle of the dorsal margin of the expansion slightly recurved acute and in the vertical margin of the same section when seen from the side being distinctly indented proximad.
Type cf  Igarapeassii State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5321.
Size medium for the genus  form subcompressed.
Head well seated in the pronotum occiput and interocular space moderately 39 Verhandl.
k.k. zool.botan.
Gesell.
Wien XLI pp.
534 538 pi.
IV fig.
95.
 This is apparently an error of transcription for Retahluleu western Guatemala.
Karny was apparently unable to place the locahty quoted and we also have been unable to secure any information concerning it.
We feel confident however that Retalulen is an error for Retahluleu.
declivent cephalad interspace between the eyes equal in width to one of the eyes this area supplied with a median impressed point  f astigium of medium width bilobate and angularly reflexed face moderateh' retreating broadly deplanate ejes as prominent as usual in the genus strongly projecting cephalad when seen from the side the form is ovoid antennse surpassing the body in length proximal joint strongly inflated second joint moderately inflated.
Pronotum of the type usual in the genus distinctly elongate metazona well produced greatest width of the pronotum contained twice in the greatest length of the same cephalic margin of disk shallowly arcuateemarginate caudal margin strongly arcuate principal sulcus deeply impressed  metazona equal to twofifths the length of the whole disk a fine mediolongituchnal impressed line present cauclad on the disk three incomplete transverse sulci indicated on the jrozona lateral lobes two and onehalf times as long as their depth the margin arcuate from the cephalic margin of the disk to the very shallow humeral sinus faintly flattened ventrocephalad caudal margin in general oblique subtruncate from the sinus to the arcuate caudal margin of the disk.
Tegmina with length slightly exceeding that of the body narrow the greatest svidth contained over seven times in the length margins in general straight subparallel apex rather narrowly rounded sutural in position discoidal vein straight oblique joining the costal margin at about its proximal third number of rami in the marginal field sixteen these straight and weakly oblique in trend ulnar vein triramose distad transverse nervures straight weakly oblique in general evenly spaced tympanal field largely covered by the pronotal extension.
Wings surpassing the tegminal apices by half the length of the tegmina moderately acuminate.
Penultimate distodorsal abdominal segment large subcucuUate distal margin broadly arcuatoangulate the mesal portion of the margin with an overlapping transparent bisinuate lamellation visible only under fair magnification distodorsal abdominal segment vertical largely under the penultimate segment roundly depressed mesad roundly elevated distolaterad free margin with a median very deep Uemargination laterad of which are paired Vemarginations of subequal depth the processes between the three emarginations compressed subfalciform with their apices subacute and directed ventrad laterad of the lateral emarginations the segment is produced into subconchate projections which have a thickened ridge along their dorsal margin and are distinctly concave ventrad when seen from the side the projections are spatulate angulatoarcuate dorsad and distad narrowly rounded distoventrad sigmoid ventrad supraanal plate well hidden acuteangulate in form cerci very short simple styliform faintly sinuate apex blunt subgenital plate of the elongate specialized tjDe found in the genus compressed when seen from the side the plate is narrowed at the distal third thence strongly compressed the dorsal margin arcuateemarginate with the dorsal angle acute produced distal margin oblique sinuatotruncate the distoventral angle produced bluntly angulate ventral margin angulatoarcuate when seen from the venter the plate is regularly narrowing distad the proximal half with a distinct median carina the distal half narrowly fissate the apex of the fissure narrowly broadened when viewed from the dorsum the branches of the plate are seen to be thickened and inflated from the basal excavation of the plate to the distodorsal angle or in the section which is arcuateemarginate when seen from the side.
Cephalic femora with three spines on the ventrocephalic margin and four on the ventrocaudal margin cephalic tibiae with five spines on each ventral margin exclusive of the apical ones.
Median femora uhspined on margins median tibiae with two spines on the ventrocephalic margin.
Caudal femora of the usual type with nine very small spines on the ventroexternal margin and six of the ventrointernal margin.
General color honey yellow the wings weakly washed with chamois parts of the head lateral lobes of the pronotum and limbs tending toward clay color.
Eyes walnut brown.
Length of body 12.4 mm.
 length of pronotum 3.3 greatest width of pronotum 1.6 length of tegmen 12.4 greatest Aidth of tegmen 1.6 length of caudal femur 9.1.
In addition to the type we have before us four paratypic males all from Bartica British Guiana H. S. Parish March 6 24 and 26 April 15 1913 in the collection of the Academy.
These specimens are all slightly larger than the type but otherwise inseparable.
The number of rami in the costal field of the tegmina ranges from fifteen to eighteen.
In these specimens the coloration particularly of the exposed portion of the wings and distad on the tegmina is strongly approaching cosse green the limbs also in part washed with weak j avel green.
Phlugiola redtenbacheri Karny.
1911.
Phlugiola redtenbacheri Karny iVbhandl.
k.k. zool.botan.
Gesell.
Wien IV heft 3 p. 20.
Surinam.
Branganza State of Para.
Miss H. B.
Ierrill.
One female.
A. N. S. P. This specimen fully agrees with the original description and figure.
As far as we are aware the two localities given above are all those known for this striking and peculiar genus and species.
AgTOeciinsB.
Paralobaspis personata n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
44 45.
Differing from P. picta from Ecuador the genotype and only previously described species of the genus in the shorter pronotum and shorter and more arcuate ovipositor the much shorter tegmina in the coloration of the mouthparts and the face the latter being solid black in the present species in the face being almost without impressed punctations in the generally unicolorous pronotum in the unicolorous prosternal spines in the more unicolorous limbs and in the fewer spines on the ventrocephalic margins of the cephalic and median femora.
Type 9  Para State of Para Brazil.
C. F.
Baker.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5322.
Size medium form relatively robust subcompressed surface smooth.
Head with the exposed dorsal length slightly less than onehalf as long as the dorsum of the pronotum ventral portion of head quite broad narrowing dorsad fastigium as characteristic of the genus its plane in general continuous with the occipital line the apex with a slightly decurved spine the general chrection of which is cephalad cephalic margin of the fastigium ventrad of the spine distinctly compressed and carinate paired ocelli subtrigonal in form median ocellus small in general circular face with the very faintest and very sparsest type of punctation  eyes moderately prominent irregularly subcircular in basal outline slightly flattened cephalad and even more weakly so ventrocaudad  antennae over twice as long as the body proximal joint with the projection on the distointernal face rounded dentiform.
Pronotum with its dorsal line straight when seen from the side in transverse section moderately arcuate dorsad rounding broadly into the lateral lobes  disk of pronotum quite narrow on the cephalic half of the pronotum moderately expanding on the metazona cephalic margin of disk with the faintest possible arcuate emargination caudal margin of disk regularly arcuate principal transverse sulcus weakly impressed placed mesad prozona crossed at its middle by a more decidedly impressed arcuate sulcus which is weak mesad lateral lobes of the pronotum twice as long as deep cephalic margin of the lobes straight oblique regularly rounding at the ventroBoll.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino XIII No.
311 p. 89 1898.
cephalic angle into the oblique but more nearly horizontal weakly sinuate ventral margin ventrocaudal angle roundly obtuse caudal margin oblique in general straight with a broad though shallow humeral sinus surface of lateral lobes moderately undulate having one center of elevation or boss on the prozona the other in the position of similar structures in the Conocephalinffi.
Tegmina slightly surpassing the apices of the caudal femora subequal in mdth the greatest width contained nearly six times in the length costal margin straight except for short arcuations proximad and distad sutural margin straight apex rounded principal venation simple mecUan vein diverging distad of the middle of the cliscoidal vein reticulations in general irregular the transverse nervures clearly defined only in the proximal portions of the marginal and discoidal fields.
Wings reaching to the apices of the tegmina.
Prosternal spines elongate aciculate Aveakly recurved parallel mesosternal lobes narrow very acute the apices weakly spiniform metasternal lobes weakly obtuseangulate the angle briefly spiniform.
Distodorsal abdominal segment with an impressed mediolongitudinal crease the free margin being produced each side of this into subspiniform projections supracoxal sections of the margin broadly and shallowly arcuatoemarginate cerdi tapering with the apices rather sharply aciculate gently arcuate when seen from the side ovipositor moderately falcate in length almost equal to twice the length of the pronotal disk greatest depth of the ovipositor inesad  dorsal margin of ovipositor very faintly curved in distal twothirds ventral margin of same regularly arcuate apex acute subgenital plate in general trigonal the margin having a distinct angulate sinuation each side of the median Vemargination.
Cephalic femora subequal to the pronotum in length the ventrocephalic margin with two spines distad median femora with three to four spines in the same position on the same margin all genicular lobes spined excepting the caudal ones of the cephalic femora.
Caudal femora about threefourths as long as the tegmina robust proximad narrowed distad ventroexternal margin with eight spines.
General coloration clay color to ochraceousbuff the abdomen approaching buckthorn brown the dorsal aspect of the head and pronotum tinted with the same.
Head with a large solid facial area of moderately shining black which dorsad involves all of the fastigium excepting its dorsal surface the proximal antennal joint and the entire face the black area expanding ventrad from as wide as the space between the ventrocephalic section of the eyes to wider than that 15 between the lateroproximal angles of the clypeus extending caudad as broad Unes along the juxtamandibular portion of the genae and as three distinct dorsoventral bars on the proximal half of the clypeus one median the others marginal mandibles largely zinc orange eyes dresden brown antennae yellow ocher becoming ochraceous tawny distad with wellspaced annuli of mmnmy brown these more closely placed proximad than distad the same section of the antennae with the individual joints marked off by narrow shadow annuli of mummy brown ventral surface of second article barred transversely proximad and distad with mummy brown.
Pronotum with a pair of obliquely disposed spots of mummy broAvn laterad on the rounded shoulder at the cephalic fifth pair of similar but very much weaker spots are placed immediately caudad of the transverse sulcus the four spots having a cruciform disposition area of the median impression washed faintly with mummy brown.
Tegmina with their base color mummy brown the venation primary and secondary forming a mesh work of warm buff to light buff.
Wings infumate.
Ovipositor sanford's brown.
Limbs ochraceousbuff the femoral spines marginal fuscous with a fuscous spot surrounding the base of each apices of the caudal femora infuscate external face of the caudal femora with an oblique patterned area of fuscous consisting of two long lines and portions of a number of generally transverse briefly arcuate lines cephalic tibiae with a fuscous patch on each face immediately distad of the foramina the distal extremity also narrowly infuscate  median tibiae with similar areas in similar positions  caudal tibiae marked with fuscous proximad and distad all tibial spines tipped with fuscous those of ventral surface with fuscous surrounding their bases.
Length of body exclusive of ovipositor 20 mm.
 length of pronotum 6.3 greatest width of pronotal disk 3 length of tegmen 19.8 greatest width of tegmen 3.2 length of caudal femur 14.5.
The type of this most interesting species is unique.
Gryllacrinae.
GryUacris harpistylata n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
46 47.
Allied to G. Icevigata Brunnerbut differing in the paired productions of the distodorsal abdominal segment being closely placed mesad and spiniform the whole segment more produced mesad in the cerci being reduced to brief stjdiform appendages in the subgenital plate being large moderately produced and having greatly 2 Verhandl.
k.k. zool.botan.
Gesell.
Wien XXXVIII pp.
321 344 pi.
VIII fig.
41c.
Upper Amazonia.
1 elongate and recurved hooklike acute styles in the smaller general proportions but actually longer tegmina and wings in the fewer spines on the ventral margin of the caudal femora in the restriction of the infuscation of the head to the occiput and fastigium and in the pronotum being broadly bivittate with fuscous.
Type cf  Para State of Para Brazil.
C. F.
Baker.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Tje no.
5323.
Size medium form as usual in the genus with greatly developed tegmina and wings surface moderately polished.
Head broad strongly transverse the face markedly flattened in fact slightly impressed occiput strongly arcuate transversely in side view regularly rouncUng over the vertex into the face vertex broad about one and onehalf times as wide as proximal antennal joint lateral margins subparallel lateral ocelli ovate rather small median ocellus large elliptical eyes rather prominent weakly projecting dorsad in basal outline elongateovoid antennse imperfect at least surpassing the apices of the tegmina and wings heavy brittle third palpal Joint moderately arcuate when seen from the side fourth joint slightly longer than the third joint straight tapering proximad in the proximal half distal half subequal in width rather narrow fifth joint slightly longer than the fourth joint faintly enlarging distad.
Pronotum transverse in general form strongly rounded transversely cephalic margin of dorsum faintly arcuate produced mesad caudal margin arcuate laterad shallowly and broadly arcuatoemarginate mesad all margins more or less distinctly cingulate transverse sulci two in number the cephalic one placed close to the cephalic margin being intermarginal and deeply impressed on the lateral lobes the caudal one placed a short distance cephalad of the caudal margin on the dorsal surface being broadly obtuseangulate in form on the lateral lobes carried regularly and straight ventrocephalad joining the cephalic transverse sulcus intervening area area of humeral shoulders and caudal section of lateral lobes moderately bullate a mediolongitudinal impressed area is indicated on the middle of the dorsum lateral lobes of the pronotum subrectangulate in general form cephalic margin of the lobes straight dorsad curving through the rounded ventrocephalic angle into the weakly oblique cephalic twothirds of the ventral margin this rounding into the reversed oblique short caudal third of the same margin ventrocaudal angle obtuse caudal margin straight no humeral sinus present.
Tegmina distad becoming coriaceous and pilose about one and twothirds times as long as the body broad the greatest width at distal fourth and contained but slightly more than three times in the greatest tegminal length costal margin strongly arcuate in proximal eighth thence broadly and very shallowly arcuate emarginate to distal third thence regularly and broadly arcuate to the rounded obtuseangulate apex sutural half of distal margin oblique rotundatotruncate rounding into the sutural margin which is broadly arcuate flattened and straight mesad.
Wings faintly surpassing the apices of the tegmina the distal sections as coriaceous and pilose as the tegmina Prosternum unspined mesoand metasternal lobes small rounded laterad.
Distodorsal abdominal segment large half domed dorsal surface with a pair of lateral patches of long pile a mediolongitucUnal impressed cuneiform area placed on the distal half the free margin mesad supplied with a closely placed pair of slender processes which when seen from the side are tapering sinuate with a recurved apex these processes reaching as far caudad as the apex of the subgenital plate and their bases placed on each side of the median impression of the segment cerci simple tapering weakly depressed incomplete in the type sparse pilose subgenital plate strongly produced in median linguiform development which is flattened clothed with long pile and laterad of the base of which spring styles of a most striking type these being greatly produced tapering straight in their distal third thence regularly arcuate dorsad and mesad with the apex moderately decurving and produced in a distinct apical spine the whole of the styles long pilose the right style is simple the left is compound having a dorsal branch forking from the main style near its base faintly more than onehalf as long as the main branch following the principal arm in attenuation and curve but with an unarmed apex.
Cephalic and median femora unarmed beneath cephalic and median tibiae with three spines distad on each ventral margin.
Caudal femora short robust weakly tapering distad ventroexternal margin with four to six spines ventrointernal margin with three large distal and four minute proximal spines caudal tibiae with three external and four internal spines on the dorsal margin.
General coloration between ochraceousbuff and zinc orange a broad Vshaped patch dorsad between the eyes and a pair of broad sinuate bars on the pronotum at the usual position of the lateral shoulders and also covering the dorsal half of the lateral lobes bone brown.
Ejes blackish fuscous.
Tegmina colorless semitransparent proximad on marginal and discoidal fields and translucent washed with pale mummy brown distad venation pencilled with prout's brown except immediately at the base of the tegmina where it is of the general color anal field weakly suffused and venation heavily pencilled with bone brown.
Wings with the venation weakly pencilled with prbut's brown.
Distodorsal abdominal segment ith the paired pilose areas touched with kaiser brown the paired process of the same segment blackish fuscous femoral and tibial spines tipped with chestnut brown.
Length of body 18 mm.
 length of pronotum 3.6 greatest width of pronotum 4.2 length of tegmen 29.5 greatest width of tegmen 9.5 length of caudal femur 9.6.
The ij'pe is unique.
Gryllacris cruenta Brunner.
1888.
Gryllacris cruenta Brunner Verhandl.
k.k. zool.
botan.
Gesell.
Wien XXXVIII pp.
321.
315.
Upper Amazonia.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One female.
This scarce and striking species has been recorded by Griffini on the basis of a male from Paramaribo Surinam. His specimen showed certain differences from the original description but these he considered to be individual.
Our specimen also shows certain differences but these are only in part those noted by Griffini.
Our specimen has the coloration much like that given in the original description less like that given by Griffini as far as the head and pronotum are concerned.
The caudal femora have nine to ten spines on the ventrointernal margin instead of three to four as described and eight as given by Griffini while the external margin has seven to eight spines seven are given in the original description and six by Griffini.
The caudal tibiae have five spines on each dorsal margin instead of five internal and seven external as originally described and six external and five to six internal as described bj Griffini.
It is evident there is considerable variation individually in the number of these spines and their diagnostic value must not be overrated.
The present specimen is slightly smaller than the original measurements of the female except that the ovipositor is of exactly the same length.
GRYLLID.
Gryllotalpinse.
Scapteriscus didactylus Latreille.
1801.
Gryllotaipa didactyla Latreille Hist.
Nat.
Gen. Crustac.
et Ins. XII p. 122.
Cayenne Surinam.
Paramaribo Surinam.
K.
Mayo.
Two females.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One female.
Thayer Expedition.
One female.
M. C.
Z.
Igarapeassu.
January 17 1 and 23 1 1912.
Five females.
 Ann.
Mus.
Nat.
Hangar. XII p. 249 1914.
These specimens all represent the long and narrow headed type of the didactylnscamerani group.
We have no Brazilian material of this species in the collections before us other than those listed above and it seems quite probable that some of the older records of this species particularly those of its occurrence at points far removed from the Guianan region may relate to camerani or other species.
We have material and records showing the occurrence of camerani over the upper and middle Amazonian regions.
The present series shows great size variation the extremes in the Igarapeassu series being very great.
Ripipteryx circumcincta Saussure.
1874.
Rhipipteryx circumcincta Saussure Miss.
Scient.
Mexiq. Rech.
Zool. VI p. 358.
South America.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One female.
Igarapeassu.
December 1911 and January 17 1912 two specimens with dates.
Four males thirteen females.
This series is quite uniform in coloration and size.
The only exact records we have for the occurrence of this species are those of Bruner of material from Benevides and Para State of Para Brazil.
Gryllinae.
Hygronemobius albipalpus Saussure.
1877.
Nemobius albipalpus Saussure Melang.
Orthopt. II fasc.
V p. 257.
Rio de Janeiro Brazil.
Igarapeassu.
January 17 to 23 1912.
Seven males fourteen females.
These specimens have been recorded by Hebard in his study of the genus. Nemobius brasiliensis Walker. 1869.
Argizala brasiliensis Walker Catal.
Dermapt.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus. I p. 61.
Brazil Santarem Brazil.
Igarapeassu.
One male.
This widely distributed and striking species has been recorded from as far south as Paraguay and north to Mexico.
Hemigryllus ortonii Scudder.
1869.
Nemobius ortonii Scudder Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. XII p. 330.
Napo or Maranon Rivers.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One female.
 Entom.
News XXVI p. 198.
 We find that Bruner's Nemobius argentinus recently described from Carcarana Argentina Ann.
Carneg.
Mus. X p. 371 1916 is identical with the present author's Ne7nobius hebardi from Buenos Aires and the Misiones Argentina described over a year previous Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1915 p. 290 figs.
4 and 5.
1915.
Piexe Boi.
east of Para.
November to December 1907.
H. B.
Merrill.
One female.
Igarapeassu.
January 17 and 23 1912 two individuals only with dates.
Two males five females.
We have already resurrected and correctly placed this specific name which antedates Saussure's kreichhaumeri the designation under which this species has been universally reported in the literature.
There is some variation in size in individuals of the same sex but the diagnostic features are always well marked.
Anurogryllus muticus DeGeer.
1773.
Gryllus mulicus DeGeer Mem.
Hist.
Ins. Ill p. 520 pi.
43 fig.
2.
Burinam.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One female.
Igarapeassu.
Two females.
The Igarapeassu specimens are quite different in size but this is not unusual in the species.
The Para individual is appreciably paler than the Igarapeassu representatives being more ferruginous and less fuscous.
The three specimens examined all have caudate Mings.
APHEMOGRYLLUS n3w genu.
Related to MiogryUus Saussure differing in the elongate and slender limbs in the elongate metatarsus of the caudal limbs in the great reduction in size of the ventral pair of distal spurs of the caudal tibise in the striking disposition of the venation of the lateral field of the tegmina in both sexes in the greater cf or lesser 9 strangulate character of the entire pronotum and in the tegmina of the male sex having no speculum present and the stridulating area very simply developed.
Generic Description.
 Head broader than the pronotum interantennal portion of face subequal to greatest width of a single antennal scrobe this area rounded in profile eyes heptagonoidovate in outline little prominent.
Pronotum broader than long distinctly  cf  or appreciably  9  strangulate  lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep the ventral margin obliquely arcuatotruncate.
Tegmina of male with dorsal field but weakly developed as a stridulating area no speculum present  lateral field with two veins in addition to the mediastine vein these diverging from the base and widely spaced tegmina of female with venation of lateral field as in male venation of dorsal field simple.
Cephalic tibiae with a decided  Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc XLIII p. 128 1916.
' From a without V''
' voice and Gryllus.
large external foramen and a small internal one of variable exact size and indication.
Caudal tibiae with each dorsal margin armed with four to five spines distal spurs of caudal tibiae three in number on each side the median the longest in each group ventral spur on each side short the two subequal in length caudal metatarsus elongate over twice as long as the remaining tarsal joints dorsal surface armed the whole length of the external margin and distad on the internal margin internal apical metatarsal spur over onehalf as long as third tarsal joint.
Ovipositor shorter than caudal femora straight apex acuminate dorsal valves surpassing ventral ones.
Aphemogryllus gracilis n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
48.j3.
Type cf Igarapeassii State of Para Brazil.
February 6 1912.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Tvpe no.
5327.
Size small  form much like species of Nemohius surface moderately polished.
Head distinctly broader than the pronotum moderately inflated occiput strongly and regularly declivent from its caudal section to the interantennal protuberance latter region but slightly wider than a single antennal scrobe well rounded when seen from the side its lateral margins faintly converging ventrad ocelli disposed in a broad depressed triangle relatively large palpi relatively short robust compressed forth joint of same subequal to the third slightly expanding fifth joint distinctly compressed mesad gradually expanding distad the apical margin strongly oblique truncate antennae at least as long as the body.
Pronotum strangulate when compared with the head the greatest width about one and onehalf times the greatest length cephalic margin truncate caudal margin feebly bisinuate both margin strongly hirsute the surface of the pronotum with many short adpressed hairs a fine mediolongitudinal sulcus present which becomes weaker caudad lateral lobes subquadrate the ventral margin moderately arcuate ascendent caudad the ventrocephalic angle broadly rounded the ventrocaudal obtuse.
Tegmina well developed but falling slightly short of the apex of the body apex well rounded lateral field relatively broad mediastine vein simple preceded by two free veins these diverging from an identical point near the base of the tegmen the space between the vein itself and the first free vein quite wide humeral and discoidal veins close to one another and at several points coalescing stridulating field relatively simple no speculum present and normal Gryllid venation quite recognizable median vein straight simple ulnar vein short transverse  anal vein following its general direction as the stridulating vein but not thickened and from the general neighborhood of the usually present Grylloid anal node continuing an arcuate but longitudinal course to the apical margin of the tegmen axillary veins three in number the first terminating at the node the second continued following the trend of the anal vein to a point of fusion distad on the sutural margin third axullary vein following the sutural margin distad of the node area between the ulnar and median veins mesad and distad wide with three crossveins and distad a spurious longitudinal vein anal and axillary veins connected by a number of crossveins.
Wings caudate surpassing the closed tegmina by considerably more than the tegminal length.
Cerci very elongate nearly as long as the body tapering.
Subgenital plate moderately produced spoonshaped.
Cephalic tibiae with the cephalic face imperforate but with a smooth elliptical area in the usual tympanal position caudal face with a large elongate ellipticoreniform tympanum.
Caudal femora moderately robust the apex relatively slender caudal tibiae armed on the dorsoexternal margin with four spines the dorsointernal margin with four to five spines external distal spurs relatively short the median one slightly more than a third as long as the metatarsus and half again as long as the dorsal one ventral spur distinctly shorter than the dorsal one internal distal spurs with the median and dorsal subequal in length about onehalf as long as the metatarsus the ventral small and subequal to the ventroexternal spur caudal metatarsus slender moderately compressed distad dorsoexternal margin with seven to nine adpressed spines dorsoexternal spur faintly more than onehalf as long as the internal one the latter reaching to slightly distad of the middle of the third tarsal joint.
Allotype 9  Igarapeassu State of Para Brazil Januarj23 1912.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
The following features are those of difference from the type.
Pronotum faintly less strangulate cephalic margin of same very shallowly arcuateemarginate.
Tegmina slightly shorter than in the male reaching not quite to the middle of the aldomen humeral and discoidal veins well separated slightly diverging distad humeral vein not furcate distad dorsal field with the median ulnar anal and two axillary veins regularly disposed crossveins indicated  At least this is the usual position of the ulnar vein in the GrylhnEe.
' The ulnar vein socalled might be considered another one.
sparsely proximad more frequently distad.
Ovipositor straight robust shorter than the caudal femora apex acuminate ventral valves shorter than the dorsal ones.
Caudal femora with ifour spines on each dorsal margin caudal metatarsus with five to six spines on the dorsoexternal margin.
General coloration of the head pronotum and dorsum of the abdomen ranging from mummy brown recessive type to blackish brown  number one of Ridgway intensive type the limbs and ventral surface buckthorn brown recessive type to mummy brown in those having the darkest dorsal coloration intensive  tegmina buffy hyaline to weak fuscous hyaline the venation of the dorsal coloration.
Head unicolorous with the mouthparts washed with ochraceoustawny to amber brown ocelli ochraceousbuff to mars yellow eyes mottled blackishbrown and dresden brown to mummy brown palpi of the same coloration as the limbs antennae of the general coloration.
Wings whitish hyaline with a brownish tinge in the intensive specimens with a distinct iridescence longitudinal veins colored similarly to those of the tegmina.
Cerci of the dorsal coloration.
Pubescence of the limbs golden.
Caudal femoral washed more or less completely with the dorsal coloration.
Measurements in millimeters Length Length Greatest Length Greatest Length Length Length of body of prowidth of of tegwidth of of wing of caudal of oviexclusive notuni pronomen dorsal distad of femur positor of oviturn field of tegmen positor tegmen Igarapeassu 2pe 8.2 1.2 1.6 4.6 1.5 6.3 4.9 Igarapeassu paratype 7.2 1..3 1.8 4.2 1.4 5.8 5 9 Igarapeassu allotype 8.8 1.5 2.2 4.5 1.6 7.3 5.2 3.9 Igarapoassu paratype 9.5 1.7 2.1 4.5 1.6 7.2 5.5 3.9 Rio Pacaya Peru paratype 8.7 1.9 2.3 4.7 1.6 8.2 5.6 3.5 In addition to the type and allotype we have examined a paratypic series of seven one male and three females bearing the same date as the type one female has no date and three females from Rio Pacaya Peru July 1912 all in the collection of the Academy.
When examined for features of variation we find that the paratypic male has five external and four internal dorsal marginal spines on the caudal tibiae.
The females all have four spines excepting one from Igarapeassu which has four internal on one limb and five on the other.
The spines on the dorsal margin of the caudal metatarsus vary from six to eight in number on the external margin and four to six on the internal margin in the paratypes.
The paratypie male has the ulnar vein of the tegmina more oblique than in the type and the first crossvein between the anal and median veins is also more oblique forming an angle in the anal vein at its juncture the next crossvein obliquely sigmoid while the proximal disposition of the axillary veins of the tegmina is also slightly different.
One of the Rio Pacaya females has the humeral vein forked near the base.
Miogryllus COnvolutUS Johannson.
1763.
Gryllus convolutus Johannson Amoen.
Acad. VI p. 399.
Surinam.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
Two females.
Igarapeassu.
January 17 to February 6 1912.
Four males nine females.
These specimens have already been recorded by Hebard in a study of the genus.
 Miogryllus verticalis Serville.
1839.
Gryllus verticalis Serville Hist.
Nat.
Ins. Orth. p. 343.
Cayenne.
Igarapeassu.
One male.
This macropterous individual has been recorded by Hebard in his study of the genus.
 Miogryllus tucumanensis GlglioTos.
1894.
Gryllus Miogryllus tucumayiensis GiglioTos Boll.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino IX No.
184 p. 41.
San Pablo Province of Tucuman Argentina.
Igarapeassu.
January 17 1912 one.
Two females.
These specimens fully agree with the description of this species except for the presence of caudate wings and having the tegmina slightly longer and overlapping.
They are as far as we can determine representative of the macropterous condition of this species a phase previously unknoTi.
In the two specimens the tegmina measure 8.4 and 8.5 millimeters in length while the other dimensions are as given in the original description.
The reference of the species to Miogryllus is according to the original author and merely tentative as far as we are concerned for its exact relationship to Gryllodes remains to be determined when more is known of the constancy and variation of characters in the latter genus.
 Journ.
N. Y. Entom.
Soc XXIII p. 109 1915. 
Ibid. p. 121 1915.
As far as known the species has been taken only at the two widely separated localities given above.
Gryllus assimilis Fabricius.
1775.
Achela assimilis Fabricius Syst.
Entom. p. 280.
Jamaica.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male one female.
Peixeboi east of Para.
November to December 1907.
H. B.
Merrill.
One male one female.
Igarapeassu.
Two females.
The Para and Igarapeassu specimens have been recorded bj Rehn and Hebard in a critical study of Gryllus as found in America.
 The Peixeboi pair would be represented by the following symbols as previously established by us cf  AVauOl 9  AVbu02.
Oecanthinae.
Lerneca varipes Walker.
1869.
Lerneca varipes Walker Catal.
Spec.
Derm.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus. I p. 72.
Amazon Region.
Igarapeassu.
One female.
This specimen is inseparable from individuals of both sexes of this species from Caparo Trinidad comments on which will be published at a later date.
Trigonidiinse.
Anaxipha esau n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
54 55.
Apparently a relative of .
tibialis Saussure but strongly marked off from any other species studied or known to us in the presence of short curved hairs placed along the veins of the tegmina and also regularly over the intervening areas the exposed portion of the wings the body and the limbs being more decidedly haired than usual.
From tibialis the present species also differs in the shorter and more robust cephalic tibiae the shorter caudal metatarsi in the reduction of the crossveins in the dorsal field of the female tegmina in the distinct sculpturing of the main veins of the same and in the more robust general form.
Type 9  Igarapeassii State of Para Brazil.
February 1 1912.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5342.
Size small form elongate slender subcylindrical wings caudate surface closely and relatively heavily haired on the tegmina the hairs 52 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1915 p. 319 1915.
 For comments on the characters separating Cyrtoxipha and Anaxipha see Rehn and Hebard Entom.
News XXIII pp.
411 and 412 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1916 pp.
300 to 302 are particularly disposed along the longitudinal veins.
Head with the greatest width across the eyes subequal to the greatest width at the caudal margin of the pronotum when seen from the side the interocular section of the head is regularly declivent from the narrowly rounded occiput interantennal protuberance broadly rounded when seen in the same view when seen from the dorsum subcompressed hairs on the rostrum decurved eyes with axis subvertical in basal outline Inroad ovoid prominent when seen from the dorsum slightly projecting cephalad  antennae surpassing the body in length proximal joint large moderately deplanate palpi with the third and fourth joints slender the third subequal in width the fourth faintly expanding distad slightly shorter than the third fifth joint reversed pyramidical about one and onehalf times as long as the distal margin which is straight truncate the joint slightly flattened.
Pronotum transverse its greatest caudal width nearly equal to one and onehalf times the greatest length of the same narrowing cephalad so that the cephalic width is distinctly less than the caudal width and faintly less than the width of the adjacent portion of the head in transverse section the pronotum is regularly rounded dorsad and into the lateral lobes cephalic margin of the dorsum gently arcuate the caudal margin broadly obtuseangulate the immediate angle narrowly rounded both margins faintly cingulate hairs on the pronotum large and chsetiform those along the caudal margin directed dorsocaudad those on the lateral lobes directed cephalad a short cephalomeclian longitudinal sulcus present lateral lobes longer than deep rounding into the dorsal surface ventrocephalic angle broadly rounded ventral margin straight ventrocaudal angle narrowly rounded caudal margin straight surface of the lateral lobes obliquely impressed.
Tegmina reaching to the apex of the abdomen pilosity covering the dorsal surface from the region of the humeral angle the lateral field almost unhaired lateral field with three veins of which one parallels the margin another is very brief the third reaches the costal margin at about the distal fourth of the field mediastine humeral discoidal and median veins of the tegmina subparallel straight ulnar vein arcuate proximad  anal vein bent both proximad and distad straight between joining the axillary vein at the distal third of the tegmen axillary veins two in number these joining and continuing as a single vein.
Exposed portion of the wings projecting distad of the closed tegmina a distance slightly greater than onehalf the length of the tegmina haired similar to the tegmina.
Ovipositor no longer than the head and pronotum together robust dorsal margin nearly straight ventral margin arcuate in distal half apex acuminate subgenital plate narrowly fissateemarginate mesacl.
Cephalic tibiae short broadly fusiform inflated in proximal twothirds subequal and subcompressed in distal third cephalic face with a large ellipticoreniform tympanum caudal face with a much smaller elliptical tympanum.
Caudal femora subequal in length to the tegmina moderately inflated caudal tibiae with three pairs of marginal spurs which are not opposite in their insertion the external series slightly more proximal in their position when compared with their equivalent on the internal series the internal spurs faintly arcuate their dorsointernal edge also faintly thickened knifelike and pencilled with blackish distoexternal spurs small distointernal spurs very much longer the dorsal one about twothirds as long as the metatarsus the dorsointernal margin thickened and pencilled as on the internal marginal spurs metatarsi slightly longer than the remaining tarsal joints combined a single spine present at the distointernal angle the internal spur of the metatarsus large reaching almost to the extremity of the tarsus slightly falcate with the dorsal edge thickened and pencilled as is the case with the other internal spurs.
General color ochraceousbuff the head distinctly and the pronotum faintly washed with weak russet eyes clear russet exposed portion of the wings faintly washed with mummy brown the veins pale at distal fourth the cephalic and median femora bear narrow incomplete annuli of weak mummy brown indications of a similar one are present on the pregenicular section of the caudal femora.
Length of body 4.6 mm.
 length of pronotum 1 greatest caudal width of pronotum 1.3 length of tegmen 3.7 length of exposed portion of wing 2.7 length of caudal femur 3.6 length of ovipositor 1.6.
The type of tliis species is unique.
Anaxipha angusticoUis Saussure.
1874.
Cyrtoxipha angusticoUis Saussure Miss.
Scient.
Mex. Rech.
Zool. VI p. 377 pi.
7 fig.
2.
Eastern Cordillera of Mexico.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male one female.
Igarapeassii.
February 1 1912 two.
Three females.
This striking species which shows great diversity in form between the sexes has the coloration more generally punctate from the present material than previous descriptions would lead one to suppose.
The agreement with the features of the detailed original description is so full there can be no question of the identity or at the most the very close relationship of the present material.
Chopard reported the species from St. Jean du Maroni French Guiana and Bruner refers material from Cacagualito Colombia Sao Luiz de Caceres Matto Grosso Brazil and British Guiana to it while Bugaba Panama is given by Saussure in the Biologia as another loealitj The form of the whole thorax of the male is so remarkable that its isolation from the other members of the genus is quite marked.
Anaxipha conspersa Bruner.
1916.
Cyrtoxipha conspersa Bruner Ann.
Carneg.
Mas. X p. 406.
Las Juntas 250 m. Department of Santa Cruz Bolivia.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male.
We have referred this specimen to conspersa although it shows several features of difference which however we feel are due to individual or sexual variation lack of note or overemphasis in the original description.
In our specimen we see no distinct indication of the ridge which separates this region i. e. depressed section of the vertex from the front.
There is however a slight elevation covering the base of the interantennal protuberance which may be the feature referred to by Bruner.
The other feature is that the whole occiput caudad of the transverse arcuate depression is solidly mars brown.
Anaxipha simulacrum n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
5659.
The slender form the blackish antennae and the shape of the cephalic tibiae and of the ovipositor are quite characteristic of tliis very distinct species which has at a glance a Cyrtoxiphine appearance.
The head and palpi however are Anaxiphine in character.
The species is not closely related to any of the other forms known to us.
Type 9  Igarapeassii State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5340.
Size very large for the genus  form moderatelj' elongate slender terete surface of body moderately shining with numerous hairs the marginal ones of the pronotum particularly laterad elongate and curved.
Head in general vertical its axis slightly retreating ventrocaudad its greatest longitudinal length slightly less than the greatest depth including the mandibles  in lateral view the occiput is well arcuate caudad of and between the eyes thence very strongly arcuatedeclivent to the interantennal region which is rounded obtuseangulate the ventral section retreating to the clypeal suture when seen from the dorsum the occiput is broad very broad behind the eyes the narrowest portion of the interocular section slightly less than half the width of the head at the caudal margin of the eyes the least interocular width subequal to the transverse width of one of the eyes width of the interantennal protuberance hardly more than onehalf that of the interocular space when seen from the dorsum the eyes are moderately prominent when seen in lateral view they are subreniform ovoid antennsje with the proximal joint broad subdepressed the internal margin roundly enlarged remainder of antennae incomplete palpi slender elongate third joint faintly longer than the fifth and distinctly longer than the fourth joint fifth joint trumpetshaped its length about two and onehalf times the distal width distal truncation faintly oblique.
Pronotum slightly longitudinal when seen from the dorsum regularly rounding transversely when seen from the dorsum slightly expanding caudad cephalic margin of the dorsum truncate mesad caudal margin moderately arcuate these margins cingulate dorsum with the mediolongitudinal sulcus indicated on the cephalic twothirds very deeply so in the median region a transverse sulcus weakly indicated mesad lateral lobes longitudinal with a distinct caudoventral trend cephalic margin and ventrocephalic angle regularly and broadly rounded ventrocaudal angle rounded rectangulate caudal margin slightly oblique straight the vicinity of the ventrocaudal angle strongly impressed.
Tegmina slightly surpassing the apex of the abdomen the closed pair cylindrical when seen from the dorsum the outline of the dorsal field narrowing in the distal fifth  venation simple prominent transverse nervures regularly placed separating areas which are regularly oblong lateral field with the discoidal vein straight regularly but weakly diverging from the humeral vein incomplete veins costad of the mediastine vein two in number.
Wings fully developed caudate projecting distad of the tegmina a distance slightly greater than the length of the head and pronotum combined.
Ovipositor moderately elongate relatively slender very faintly arcuate proximad more strongly so distad distal extremity moderately acute weakly crenulate on the dorsal margin almost to the weak swelling which is situated at the distal threefifths subgenital plate slightly broader than long the apex briefly fissate rounding narrowly into the margins of the plate.
Cephalic and median limbs elongate straight moderately tapering cephalic femora subequal to the combined length of the head and pronotum cephalic tibiae subequal to the femora in length the distal half quite slender both faces of the tibiae with elongate reniform tympana those of the two faces subequal in size median femora faintly shorter than the cephalic ones tibiae subequal in length to the cephalic tibiae and distinctly surpassing the median femora.
Caudal femora moderately robust tapering surpassing the apex of the ovipositor and falling but slightly short of the tips of the wings caudal tibiae subequal to the femora in length very slender the dorsal margins armed with three pairs of spurs which are not paired in position those of the external margins being more proximal in position than the corresponding spur on the internal margin the spurs slender slightly falcate or but faintly hooked at the apex their length about two and onehalf times the depth of the tibial shaft distoexternal spurs very short the median one three times as long as the dorsal and nearly twice as long as the ventral one distointernal spurs two in number elongate weakly falcate the dorsal one about onehalf as long as the metatarsus and half again as long as the ventral one caudal metatarsi about onefourth as long as the tibiae straight the dorsal surface with a short recumbent spine on each margin distad the internal distal spur about onehalf again as long as the external one second tarsal joint elongate cordiform the third slender.
Allotype c'  same data as type.
January 26 1912.
Differing from the description of the type in the following features Tegmina relatively narroAv when seen from the dorsum the pair in repose narrowing distad lateral field of the tegmina relatively broad subequal in width mediastine vein diverging regularly from the humeral vein distad the area between with a number of transverse nervures which divide it into rectangulate spaces three free veins are present in the proximal section of the lateral field costad of the mediastine vein humeral vein curving costad at its apex speculum elongate diamondshaped its length about onehalf that of the dorsal field of the tegmen its greatest length slightly more than onehalf its length postaxillary veins three in number axillary veins two in number.
Styles reaching to the apices of the caudate wings.
General color buffyellow the pubescence largely golden.
In the female there is a mediolongitudinal line of raw umber on the closed tegmina which is distinct proximad and weakens distad.
Eyes fuscousblack antennae distad of the proximal joint blackish the proximal one washed distad with fuscous second and third tarsal joints of all tarsi washed with fuscousblack ovipositor rich chestnut bro'vTi.
Measurements in millimeters.
length ot body.
Length ot pronotum.
Length of tegmen.
Length of caudal femur.
Length of ovipositor 6.3 1.5 5.3 5.2 2.5 7 1.4 6 5.5 cf type 6.3 9 allotype The type and allotype are the only specimens known to us 16 Anaxipha smithi Saussure.
1897.
Cyrtoxipha smithi Saussure Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. I p. 236.
Teapa Tabasco Mexico.
Igarapeassii.
One female.
We have assigned this specimen to smithi without having seen Mexican material of either sex but it agrees with the description which was based on the male sex in all features of any importance.
Actual comparison may show the Brazilian material to be distinct but at this time we know of no evidence requiring its separation.
The ovipositor is short and robust much like in imitator but the form of the ovipositor is more robust with a more decided angle to the dorsal line in imitator while the palpi are more slender and the cephalic tibiae less robust in smithi the coloration also being different.
Chopard has reported this species from four localities in French Guiana.
Anaxipha aptera Chopard.
1912.
Cyrtoxipha aptera Chopard Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France LXXXI p. 410 4 figs.
Charvein St. I.iaurent and NouveauChantier French Guiana.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male.
Paramaribo Dutch Guiana.
K.
Mayo.
One male.
A. N. S. P. The wingless condition of the known material of this species may not be a specific character of the form as ciuite a few species are known to be dimorphic in this respect.
The Para individual has four reddish brown longitudinal lines on the vertex and occiput the median pair continued on the interantennal protuberance.
The Paramaribo specimen hias these absent Anaxipha minuta Linnaeus.
1767.
Gryllus minutus Linnseus Syst.
Nat. ed.
XII p. 694.
America Surinam according to DeGeer.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male one female.
Paramaribo Dutch Guiana.
K.
Mayo.
Three females.
There is so little in the literature to enable us to pin this name down to a definite species that we are under the necessity of using it for an insect not disagreeing with the insufficient diagnosis and found in the region from which mimda was supposed to have come.
The Linnean material is probably not in existence as Stal did not feel that he had it before him when preparing the Recensio although part of the basic material of DeGeer's testaceus which is generalh' considered synonymous with minuta was in his hands.
The present  Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France LXXXI p. 407 1912.
species shows no features of difference from the Linnean description which might not be due to discoloration of the original material.
Anaxipha cayennensis Saussure.
1897.
Cyrtoxiphus aztecus var.
cayennensis Saussure Biol.
Cent.Amer.
 Orth. I p. 235.
Cayenne.
Igarapeassu.
H. S.
Parish.
Two males.
We have used for comparison material from British Guiana and found some slight differences chiefly in the relative width of the dorsal field of the tegmina but nothing sufficiently marked or constant to make it advisable to separate the two lots.
Saussure considered this merely a variety of azieca but we prefer to give the name specific rank until more is known concerning its relationship to azteca in this following Chopard and Bruner.
The former author has recorded the species from NouveauChantier French Guiana the latter from Santarem Brazil.
Our material is of similar small size to that reported by Bruner.' Anaxipha nitida Chopard.
1912.
Cyrto.ripha nitida Chopard Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France LXXXI p. 408 4 figs.
XouveauChantier French Guiana.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One female.
This individual is fully typical of the present striking and beautiful species although slightly smaller than the original measurements.
The antennae are broadly white annulate on a fuscous ground at a point about three millimeters from their bases.
The coloration of the antennae is not mentioned in the original description.
Anaxipha variegata Chopard.
1912.
Cyrtoxipha variegata Chopard Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France LXXXI p. 407 4 figs.
St. Laurent and NouveauChantier French Guiana.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male.
This specimen may prove to be distinct from true variegata as it shows certain color features not mentioned by Chopard but at present we prefer to consider these individuals variations or the color features to have been omitted from the description by Chopard.
The antennae are solid blackish proximad then follows a broad creamcolored area which contains two narrow broAvn annuli distad of this the color is pale brownish with regularly placed dark brown annuli.
The occiput is pale yellow caudad broadly blackish brown like the face and between the eyes in the middle of the yellow area is a transverse bar of blackish brown.
The median femora like the cephalic ones have a distal pale area colored like the tibiae and in addition a median annulus of the same.
55 Ann.
Carneg.
Mus. X p. 404 1916.
Anaxipha incompta Walker.
1869.
Eneopt era incompta Walker Catal.
Derm.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus. I p. 67.
TapayosTapajos Brazil.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
One male.
We are identifying this specimen with Walker's species provisionally or at least until we can ascertain more about the type of the species as the description is woefully inadequate.
Anaxipha tibialis Saussure.
1897.
Cyrtoxipha tibialis Saussure Biol.
Cent.
Amer. Orth. I p. 236 pL XI fig.
40.
Teapa Tabasco Mexico.
Para.
C. F.
Baker.
Two males three females.
These specimens show no differences from the description of tibialis and we see no alternative but to record them as that species although comparison with Mexican material is not at present possible.
The two male specimens show differences which demonstrate the presence in males of this species of a broad and a narrow type of tegmina and consequently of the tympanum also in both sexes of recessive and intensive types of coloration.
In the former of these color types the dark lateral bar is quite narrow distinctly dorsad on the lateral lobes and on the tegmina pencils but the immediate vicinity of the mediastine vein in the intensive type the bar is broad and covers all of the lateral lobes except the ventrocephalic portion which is yellow and on the tegmina suffuses a broad belt costad of the mediastine vein.
As we here imderstand the species it is not far removed from imitator Saussure from which it differs in the narrower head and pronotum slightly different shape of the cephalic tibiae and more restricted less solidly infuscate dark areas on the pronotum and tegmina.
Anaxipha paraensis n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
6062.
Apparently related to A. tolteca Saussure described from eastern Mexico but chffering in the broadly rounded lateral shoulders of the pronotum and in the shorter and narrower tegmina which have the speculum more longitudinal.
Doubtless other features of difference exist which will become apparent on actual comparison of the two forms.
Type cf  Para State of Para Brazil.
C. F.
Baker.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5343.
Size relatively large broad tegmina well vaulted  surface of body well clothed with hairs which are bristly on the head and pronotum.
Head trigonal in cephalic aspect faintly deeper than broad occiput moderately declivent to the interanteimal region with numerous bristles which are directed ventrocephalad interantennal protuberance equal to about onehalf the least width of the interocular region eyes very prominent when seen from the dorsum their convexity directed cephalolaterad when seen from the side their basal outline is reniformovoid the narrower portion ventrad antennae reaching at least to the apices of the wings the proximal joint enlarged but simple  palpi slender the third and fifth joints subequal in length the third joint slightly arcuate fourth joint about twothirds as long as the third joint fifth joint trumpetshaped the distal margin very faintly obliquetruncate.
Pronotum transverse strongly and regularly narrowing cephalad the width at the caudal margin about onethird greater than the length of the pronotum the dorsum broadly and regularly rounding into the lateral lobes surface of the dorsum and lateral lobes with scattered curved bristles the margins but particularly the cephalic with a regularly placed series of smaller bristles cephalic margin of the disk faintly arcuate the caudal margin more distinctly but weakly arcuate mediolongitudinal impression distinctly but not deeply indicated on the greater portion of the disk transverse impression distinct median arcuate lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep subrectangular cephalic margin oblique the ventrocephalic angle rounded obtuse ventral and caudal margins each straight the ventrocaudal angle narrowly rounded rectangulate the lobes well inbent ventrocaudad.
Tegmina broad distinctly broader than the body in length slightly surpassing the apex of the body lateral field broad subequal in depth costal margin in greater portion straight very faint intimation of an emargination mesad arcuate distad mediastine vein arcuate proximad and distad straight for the greater portion of its length little distant from and subparallel to the humeral vein in the proximal half the area between these veins crossed by numerous straight transverse nervures  costal section of the marginal field with three incomplete veins the third of which is a ramus of the mediastine vein humeral and discoidal veins closely placed subparallel median vein parallel to the other veins of the humeral trunk sUghtly weaker stridulating vein regularly arcuate ulnar vein regularly sigmoid axillary veins three in number of which the third is strumose  postaxillary veins three in number speculum roughly diamondshaped but slightly longer than broad the sutural angle the only one of the four which is distinctly rounded the figure within the speculum complete ovoidsubcordiform its area coriaceorugulose  apex of the dorsal field of the tegmina slightly acuteangulate.
Wings strongly caudate projecting distad of the tegmina a distance equal to the length of the tegmina the exposed portion of the wings faintly fusiform when seen from the side the dorsal and ventral margins of the same rather thickly hirsute.
Styles elongate slender tapering falling but slightly short of the tips of the closed wings subgenital plate elongate scoopshaped narrowing distad the distal margin narrowly bisarcuate.
Limbs moderately slender elongate.
Cephalic femora moderately tapering cephalic tibiae subequal in length to the femora the proximal fiveeighths moderately bullate the distal threeeighths relatively slender tympana perforating both faces of the tibiae that of the cephalic face relatively large elongate acuteelliptical of the caudal face but little more than half that size and ovoid in form.
Median tibiae slightly surpassing the femora in length but faintly larger in proximal half than in distal half.
Caudal femora subequal to the tegmina in length moderately inflated proximad tapering thence distad genicular region very small caudal tibiae in length subequal to the femora three pairs of marginal spurs present those of the external margin more proximal in position than those of the internal the spurs nearly straight with the immediate apex briefly hooked  distoexternal spurs small the middle one not more than onefifth as long as the metatarsus the dorsal one not more than onehalf as long as the middle one the ventral one about twothirds as long as the middle one  distointernal spurs two in number the dorsal one heavy tapering very faintly hooked at the apex in length slightly more than twothirds as long as the metatarsus the ventral spur about threefifths as long as the dorsal one more slender caudal metatarsi slightly less than a fourth as long as the caudal tibiae each dorsal margin distad with a single spine external apical spur about twothirds as long as the internal one.
General color buckthorn brown the tegmina dresden brovn the head and thoracic bristles fuscous.
The lower face with a weak pattern of liver brown the interantennal protuberance dorsad with a pair of short narrow lines of blackish eyes tawnyolive antennae chamois largely washed on all but the ventral surface with bister.
Pronotum as well as the dorsal surface of the head with a weak pattern of Vandyke brown.
Tegmina with the venation lined to a variable degree with bister those distad on the lateral field with this most evident.
Wings with the exposed portion heavily washed with fuscous the cross veins of the paler general color.
Cephalic and median tibiae weakly marked with fuscous the tarsi of the same limbs with the same color.
Caudal femora with the genicular extremityaside from the arches marked with fuscous the dorsal surface of the caudal tibiae and the marginal spurs Aveakly washed with the same shade.
Length of body 7 mm.
 length of pronotum 1.4 mm.
 greatest width of pronotum caudad 2 mm.
 length of tegmen 6 mm.
 greatest width of dorsum of tegmen 2.5 mm.
 length of wings distad of tegmen 4.6 mm.
 length of caudal femur 5.8.
The type of this species is unique.
Anaxipha fistulator n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
6366.
Allied to A. championi Saussure from Panama but differing in the more elongate palpi the distal joint of which is markedly elongate and obliquely truncate distad in the more sharplj inflated and then narrowed cephalic tibise the differently shaped lateral lobes of the pronotum and in the more slender caudal femora.
When compared with A. strmnenticia described below fistulator is seen to be quite close but the latter differs in its distinctly larger size somewhat differently shaped palpi and cephalic tibiae and has the pronotum more strongly transverse.
Type cf  Igarapeassu State of Para Brazil.
H. S.
Parish.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. TDe no.
5341.
Size quite large for the genus  form subdepressed the tegmina broader than the body wings long caudate surface of the body rather thickly covered with hairs many of those of the head and pronotum chaetiform.
Head broad subcordiform in outline when seen from the cephalic aspect the greatest width across the eyes but faintly less than the length the buccal region quite narrow the occipital outline arcuate transversely in lateral aspect the dorsum of the head is seen to be strongly but uniformly declivent to the interantennal protulDerance which broadly rounds caudad to the clypeal suture eyes moderately exserted and well rounded when seen from the dorsum in basal outline short and broad ovate antennae incomplete the proximal joint broad palpi slender elongate third joint gently arcuate faintly shorter than the fifth joint fourth joint about threefifths as long as the fifth joint the latter trumpetshaped the distal margin obliquely truncate.
Pronotum weakly sellate strongly narrowing cephalad the pronotum distinctly transverse the greatest caudal width more than twice that of the cephalic margin of the disk and equal to one and onehalf times the length of the pronotal disk the dorsum broadly rounding into the lateral lobes cephalic margin of the disk subtruncate rounding into that of the lateral lobes caudal margin of the disk truncate mediolongituchnal sulcus indicated over the greater portion of the length of the disk not reaching either margin more distinctly indicated cephalad lateral lobes subquadrate ventral margin truncate cephalic margin oblique subtruncate ventrocephalic angle rounded obtuse caudal margin straight ventrocaudal angle broadly rounded rectangulate impression of lateral lobes moderately inchcated oblique appreciably in bent ventrocaudad.
Tegmina relatively broad the greatest width of the disk contained about two and onehalf times in the length of the same when in repose the greatest width across the dorsal fields of the tegmina is at threefifths the length of the tegmina the margin of the extremity of the field weakly acuteangulate  lateral field moderately broad subequal in width  mediastine vein moderately but regularly diverging from the humeral vein in proximal half thence subparallel or weakly converging distad two free veins present cephalad of the proximal half of the mediastine vein humeral vein prominent and straight for the greater portion of its length sharply decurved at its apex discoidal vein in general paralleling the humeral vein obtuseangulate at the distal fourfifths stridulating vein strongly but not regularly arcuate axillary veins two in number postaxillary veins three in number ulnar vein stronglj arcuate in proximal threefourths speculum oblique subrectangulate the proximal angle and the distal angle rectangulate the costal angle weakly obtuse the sutural angle rounded the greatest transverse Avidth of the speculum subequal to the length figure of the speculum complete following the costal outline less distinctly than the others.
Wings with the caudate section but slightly shorter than the tegmina well haired along the dorsal and ventral margins.
Subgenital plate relatively small narrowing distad the distal margin rather sharply and deeply bisarcuate styles slightly surpassing the apices of the caudal femora tapering robust proximad.
Cephalic femora moderately robust tapering in length subequal to the head and pronotum combined cephalic tibise subequal to the femora in length the proximal fiveeighths distinctly inflated the distal section relatively slender tympanum of the cephalic face large elongate subelliptical of the caudal face distinctly smaller subelliptical.
Median limbs missing.
Caudal femora faintly longer than the tegmina moderately robust proximad regularly tapering very slender distad  caudal tibise subequal to the femora in length slender the marginal spurs of the same number and disposition as in the other new species of the genus here described distoexternal spurs small the dorsal one very small hardly more than a third the length of the median one the ventral spur faintly more than half the length of the median one  distointernal spurs two in number the dorsal one fiveeighths of the length of the metatarsus the ventral one twothirds the length of the dorsal one caudal metatarsi contained about four and onehalf times in the length of the tilise the dorsal surface armed distad with a pair of spines distal spur of the external side twothirds as long as the internal one.
General color straw yellow the tegmina more clear yellow ocher the head with an indefinite tawny wash the caudate port en of the wings when closed washed with weak buckthorn brol.
Eyes cinnamon brown.
Length of body 7.9 mm.
 length of pronotum 1.2 greatest caudal width of pronotum 1.9 length of tegmen 6 greatest width of dorsum of tegmen 2.5 length of exposed caudate section of wing 5 length of caudal femur 6.
The type of this species is unique.
Anaxipha stramenticia n. sp.
PL II figs.
6770.
This species is apparently more closely related to granadensis Rehn from Nicaragua championi Saussure from Panama and fistulator described above than to the other species known to us.
From granadensis it differs chiefly in the different profile of the head this having the occiput and fastigium very much less deplanate declivent in the distal palpal joint being very strongly oblique truncate distad in the more quadrate lateral lobes of the pronotum in the dorsointernal spur of the caudal tibiae being half as long as the metatarsus and the caudal metatarsal internal spur distinctly surpassing the second tarsal joint in the sparser tegminal venation of the female the only sex known oi granadensis and in the exact shape of the apex of the ovipositor.
From championi the new form differs chiefly in the obliquely truncate distal margin of the distal palpal joint and the more decidedly slender distal portion of the cephalic femora while from fistulator it is distinguished chiefly by its smaller size more sharply narrowed cephalic tibiae less strongly transverse pronotum and less attenuate caudal femora.
Type  Para State of Para Brazil.
C. F.
Baker.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5345.
Size medium for the genus  form relatively elongate the wings caudate body and limbs thickly clothed with short hairs on the head and pronotum many are more elongate and chsetiform.
Head broad cordiform when seen from the cephalic aspect the greatest width across the eyes not exceeded by the depth of the head the occipital line moderately arcuate when seen from the front in lateral aspect the dorsal line of the head is moderately declivent from the occiput to the interantennal protuberance which broadly rounds over the ventral section of the facial line to the clypeal sulcus width of interantennal protuberance not quite equal to onehalf the least width between the eyes  eyes when seen from the dorsum quite prominent full in basal outline broad ovoid flattened caudad palpi slender elongate third joint in length subequal to the fifth joint moderately arcuate fourth joint about threefifths of the length of the third joint fifth joint trumpetshaped flaring quite markedly the distal margin rather strongly oblique truncate antennae incomplete the proximal joint broad distinctly depressed.
Pronotum rather small subselliform weakly enlarging caudad the dorsum rather broadly rounding into the lateral lobes  cephalic margin of the disk sinuatotruncate caudal margin arcuatotruncate mediolongitudinal sulcus distinctly indicated mesad and very briefly cephalad transverse impression weakly indicated bisarcuate lateral lobes subquadrate in form the margins straight the angles well rounded ventrocaudal section moderately but not strongly inbent.
Tegmina but little broader than the body in length but faintly surpassing the apex of the abdomen lateral field broad subequal mediastine vein regularly diverging from the humeral vein the area between with weakly indicated transverse nervures which divide the area into subquadrate areolets accessory veins of the lateral field three in number situated costad of the mediastine vein one simulating and subparalleling the mediastine vein the other two which are costad short and sinuate humeral and discoidal veins straight in general subparallel dorsal field with the greatest width at fiveeighths the length from the base distal margin of the discoidal field rounded obtuseangulate stridulating vein bent arcuate axillary veins two in number not counting the thickened marginal node postaxillary veins three in number ulnar vein moderately sigmoid more so proximad than distad speculum oblique subrectangulate the greatest width of the same between angles equal to about threefourths of the length proximal angle weakly acute distal angle rectangulate costal angle rounded obtuse sutural angle rather broadly rounded figure of the speculum complete unsjanmetrical elongate subelliptical.
Wings with the caudate portion projecting distad of the tegmina a distance equal to threefourths of the length of the tegmina.
Subgenital plate short slightly transverse scoopshaped the lateral margins converging distad the distal extremity with a relatively deep emargination which is made weakly bisarcuate by a median triangular projection styles nearly reaching the tips of the caudate wings.
Cephalic femora subequal to the length of the head and pronotum combined straight tapering cephalic tibiae faintly shorter than the femora strongly inflated in the proximal half subequal and moderately slender distad tympanum of the cephalic face large elongate elliptical of the caudal face smaller subelliptical.
Caudal femora faintly shorter than the tegmina moderately robust proximad tapering distad caudal tibise subequal to the femora in length the marginal spines placed as in the other species here described distoexternal spurs very small the dorsal one minute distointernal spurs two in number the dorsal one half as long as the metatarsus the ventral one twothirds as long as the dorsal one  caudal metatarsi with its length contained about three and onehalf times in the length of the caudal tibiae the dorsal margins each armed distad with a single tooth distal spur of the internal face reaching to about the middle of the third tarsal joint the external spur hardly surpassing the middle of the second joint. '
Allotype  9  same date as the type.
Differing from the description of the type in the following features.
Pronotum relatively heavier than in the male broader in proportion to the width of the head the caudal margin of the disk weakly produced mesad rounded very faintly sinuate laterad of the median production lateral lobes with the cephalic margin more oblique truncate the ventrocephalic angle rounded obtuse.
Tegmina narrow elongate slightly surpassing the apex of the abdomen exclusive of the ovipositor when in repose the lateral margins of the tegmina are subparallel narrowing at the distal extremity to the narrowly rounded apex lateral field with the veins more regularly disposed than in the male straighter and more distinctly diverging dorsal field with the anal and axillary two veins moderately sinuate transverse nervures numerous and irregularly distributed.
Ovipositor in length subequal to that of the head and pronotum combined moderately falcate of medium depth distal extremity of the dorsal margin and the vicinity of the valvular suture in the distal third with fine strumose denticulations apex acute.
General color antimony yellow becoming warm buff on the tegmina the abdomen with a tendency toward ochraceousbuff ovipositor tipped with mars brown the eyes varying from the general color to dresden brown.
Measurements in 7niUimeters .
'Length Length Greatest Length Length of Length of Length of of width of of wings distad of caudal of body.
pronotum.
pronotura.
tegmen.
closed tegmina femur ovipositor.
d'Jype 6.2 1.1 1.9 5.2 4.4 5.5 9 allotype 6 1.3 1.8 5 4 5.5 2.3 In addition to the type and allotype we have before us a paratypic pair bearing the same data as the type.
These specimens show no differences worthy of remark.
Eneopterinae.
Aphonomorphus major Chopard.
1912.
Aphonomorphus major Chopard Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France LXXXI p. 429 3 ..
St. Laurent du Maroni French Guiana.
Igarapeassu.
One female.
This specimen is somewhat damaged and the form of the distal palpal joint is not satisfactorily ascertainable but in all other important ambisexual features our specimen agrees with the description of major which was based on the male.
The dorsointernal margin of the caudal tibiae has one more spine six instead of five than Chopard gives but this is probably a purely individual feature.
Aphonomorphus griseus Chopard.
1912.
A phonomorphus griseus Chopard Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France LXXXI p. 430 2 figs.
La Forestiere French Guiana.
Igarapeassu.
January 17 1912.
One male.
We are assigning this specimen here although it shows at least one point of difference from Chopard's description.
This is in the presence of but two instead of three spines on the dorsoexternal margin of the caudal metatarsi.
Our specimen has the body length slightly greater than Chopard's measurement and the distal palpal joint seems rather elongate to answer the original ''aussi long que large.
Howeverthe features of agreement are so pronounced and the features of difference those of possible individual variation or of exact interpretation of the proportions of a relatively difficult shape to describe that we consider our present course of reference best.
Aphonomorphus surdus n. sp.
PI.
II fig.
7174.
Apparently allied to A. variegatiis and griseus Chopard from Cayenne and A. conspersus Bruner from Bolivia.
From variegatus it differs chiefly in the different spination of the caudal tibiae in the different coloration in the more elongate limbs in the smaller ocelli in the greater general size in the deeply sulcate subgenital plate of the male and in the fewer mediastine rami of the tegmina.
From griseus it differs in the greater general size in the smaller ocelli in the lateral lobes of the pronotum being longer and shallower in proportion in the pronotum being less narrowed cephalad in the more elongate limbs in the deeply sulcate subgenital plate of the male and in the different coloration.
From conspersus the new form differs in the smaller nonattingent ocelli the more fusiform cephalic tibiae the generally less robust limbs the more elongate caudal metatarsal spurs and the less strongly divided subgenital plate of the male and in certain features of the coloration.
Comparison can hardly be made with lividus Burmeister as its diagnosis is so brief and indefinite that the recognition of the species without the reexamination of the type would be purely guesswork.
Type cf  Para State of Para Brazil.
C. F.
Baker.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Type no.
5363.
Size medium form elongate quite slender subcompressed surface of body and limbs rather thickly pilose this generally adpressed of tegmina microscopically adpressed pilose.
Head no wider than the cephalic section of the pronotum depth of the head subequal to the width across the eyes occiput gently declivent cephalad the fastigium plane and nonexcavate when seen in lateral outline the interantennal angle is rounded obtuseangulate  ocelli of medium size placed in an arcuate line the median one rather small elliptical transverse separated from the lateral ocelli by faintly more than the length of the median ocellus fossetted lateral ocelli large subcircular flattened placed longitudinal separated from the eyes by less than their own diameter rostrum with the interantennal width faintly greater than the width of the proximal antennal segment briefly fossulate dorsad eyes moderately prominent in basal outline broad subpyriform  palpi moderately elongate third joint long the fourth somewhat shorter narrow at its base fifth joint as long as the fourth joint produced securiform the distal width slightly less than the length of the joint flexor margin nearly straight with a distal rounding to the arcuatotruncate distal margin extensor margin gently concave antennae elongate proximal joint moderately depressed narrowed proximad.
Pronotum transverse the greatest median length contained one and onehalf times in the greatest caudal width of the same in transverse section arcuate rather broadly rounding into the lateral lobes cephalic margin subtruncate caudal margin strongly bisinuate decidedly produced arcuate mesad lateral borders of disk moderately diverging caudad cephalic and caudal margins cingulate the former with this moderately the latter extremely broad pyriform impressions of the disk large broad lateral lobes of the pronotum one and onehalf times as long as deep somewhat impressed ventrad ventrocephalic angle broadly rounded ventral margin arcuate ventrocaudal angle rounded obtuse and broadly lamellatocingulate the other margins rather narrowly cingulate.
Tegmina surpassing the tips of the caudal femora by about the length of the pronotum when seen from the dorsum the lateral borders of the dorsal fields of the tegmina regularly converge distad lateral field of uniform depth in the proximal third thence regularly narrowing distad mediastine vein with five rami lateral field with five proximal free veins hyaline intercalated field very elongate reaching to the proximal third of the lateral field dorsal field rather narrow five times as long as greatest breadth regularly narrowing in distal half between the median and the short anal vein there is but a brief section of the ulnar vein which is distinctly traceable all the other longitudinal nervures irregular and sinuate the crossveins irregularly distributed and oblique sectors not clearly defined anal and the two axillary veins oblique straight regularly disposed connected by numerous crossveins.
Wings surpassing the tegmina by slightly more than the length of the pronotum.
Cerci very slender elongate reaching almost to the tips of the wings clothed with numerous rather adpressed short hairs and sparse erect long hairs decurved subgenital plate elongate scaphiform subcompressed with a deep mediolongitudinal sulcus on the ventral surface distal margin Uemarginate.
Limbs moderately slender third joint of tarsi slender.
Cephalic tibiae with an elongate elliptical foramen on the cephalic face caudal face imperforate.
Caudal femora moderately slender about twothirds as long as the tegmina caudal tibiae very faintly shorter than the caudal femora dorsal surface armed distad as follows on external margin with five major spines on internal margin with six those of the internal slightly longer than those of the external the intercalated spinulations placed on external margin  3 or 4 4 2 1 on internal margin  1 2 or 3 2 1 0 dorsointernal distal spur over twice as long as the ventral almost as long as the metatarsus external distal spurs short  caudal metatarsi armed on the dorsoexternal margin with a single distal spinulation on the dorsointernal margin with three spinulations metatarsal spurs very long the internal slightly longer than the external faintly arcuate when seen from the side arcuate proximad when seen from the dorsum.
Allotype 9  same data as type.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Differing from the description of the male type in the following features.
Size larger form and vestiture similar.
Head slightly deeper than width across the eyes ocelli similar to those of the male but slightly smaller.
Pronotum with cephalic margin distinctly arcuatoemarginate  lateral borders of disk less distinctly diverging caudad than in the male.
Tegmina surpassing the tips of the caudal femora mediastine vein with eight rami lateral field with five free veins proximad dorsal field with its width contained slightly more than five times in the tegminal length.
Cerci very elongate appreciably surpassing tlie tips of the wings subgenital plate of the type usual in the female sex of the genus moderately compressed  ovipositor in length surpassing that of the caudal femora by not more than onehalf the dorsal length of the pronotum slender compressed moderately decurved in proximal half thence straight apical valves acute lanceolate ventroexternal surface of valves shagreenous the ventral surface crassly crenatedentate the productions unequal and irregular in size these arranged in several series.
Caudal tibise with the intercalated spinulations numbering 3or 5 3 2 1 or 2 on the external margin 2 3 or 4 1 1 on the internal margin.
General coloration of the male buckthorn brown of the female between cinnamonbrown and dresden brown in both sexes with an overlying coloration of points of mummy brown and blackish fuscous pubescence pale golden.
Head with the ocelli bordered dorsad by a transverse poorly defined band of fuscous ocelli naples yellow eyes hazel obliquely and rather irregularly barred dorsad with three lines of fuscous antennae multiannulate with mummy brown on an ochraceousbuff ground the contrast decided in the male hardly apparent in the female.
Pronotum with the cephalic and caudal margins beaded with fuscous except in the male where the caudal margin is unmarked dorsad.
Tegmina with the median vein strongly closely and quite regularly beaded with blackish fuscous except in proximal fifth spot at base of humeral trunk blackish fuscous dorsal surface with five oblique clouds of fuscous in the female the crossveins largely lined with fuscous in the male no clouds are indicated and but a few crossveins are pencilled lateral field of female with crossveins pencilled with fuscous longitudinal veins all lined with dull ochraceoustawny intercalated field washed with mummy brown in the male nearly clear hyaline in the female.
Limbs thickly and closely speckled with fuscous in the female in the male this hardly indicated on the caudal limbs and much less distinctly so on the others than in the female caudal.
femora with the ventral margin broadly beaded with fuscous distad caudal tibiae with the spines and spurs annulate mesad with fuscous.
Ovipositor with the tips fuscous.
cf type.
Length of body 19.5 mm.
 length of pronotum 3 greatest caudal width of pronotum 4.4 length of tegmen 19 greatest width of dorsal field of tegmen 3.9 length of caudal femur 12.8.
9 allotype.
Length of body 18 mm.
 length of pronotum 3.6 greatest caudal width of pronotum 5 length of tegmen 22.2 greatest width of dorsal field of tegmen 4.4 length of caudal femur 15 length of ovipositor 16.
The type and allotype are the only individuals of the species seen by us.
It is evident that the male is in a recessive type of coloration the female in an intensive one.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES I AND II.
Plate I.
Fig.
1.
 Ischnoptera crispuln new species.
Wing of male type.
X6.
Fig.
2.
 Ischnoptera crispula new species.
Pronotum of male type.
Dorsal view.
X6.
Fig.
3.
 Ischnoptera crispula new .species.
Genital orifice of male type.
Caudal elevation.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
4.
 Ischnoptera crispula new species.
Subgenital plate of male type.
Ventral view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
.5.
 Ischnoptera imparata new species.
Wing of male type.
X8.
Fig.
6.
 Ischnoptera im par ata new species.
Pronotum of male type.
Dorsal view.
X6.
Fig.
7.
 Ischnoptera imparata new species.
Genital orifice of male type.
Caudal elevation.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
8.
 Ischnoptera imparata new species.
Subgenital plate of male type.
Ventral view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
9.
 Ischnoptera clavator new species.
Wing of male type.
X4.
Fig.
10.
 Ischnoptera clavator new species.
Pronotum of male type.
Dorsal view.
X6.
Fig.
IL  Ischnoptera clavator new species.
Genital orifice of male type .
Caudal elevation.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
12.
 Ischnoptera clavator new species.
Subgenital plate of male type.
Ventral view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
13.
 Ischnoptera castanea Saussure.
Genital orifice of male.
Igarapeassii Brazil.
Caudal elevation.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
14.
 Ischnoptera castanea Saussure.
Subgenital plate of male.
Igarapeassu Brazil.
Ventral view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
15.
 Carihlatta igarapensis new species.
Pronotum of male type.
Dorsal view.
X6.
Fig.
16.
 Cariblatta igarapensis new species.
Genital orifice of male type.
Caudal elevation.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
17.
 Cariblatta igarapensis new species.
Wing of male type.
X5.
Fig.
18.
 Cariblatta igarapensis new species.
Subgenital plate of male type.
Ventral view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
19.
 Chorisoneura parishi new species.
Pronotum of male type.
Dorsal view.
X7.
Fig.
20.
 Chorisoneura parishi new .species.
Tegmen and wing of male type.
X7.
Fig.
21.
Chorisoneiira parishi new species.
Subgenital plate of male type.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
22.
 M elestora minuiissima nevi'speciea.
Dorsal view of male type.
X7.
Fig.
23.
 Melestora minutissima new species.
Apex of abdomen of male tjqje.
Ventral view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
24.
 Tetralcenia surinama Linn..
Median femur of male.
Para Brazil.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
25.
 Tetratoenia phila new species.
Median femur of male type.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
26.
 Tetratcenia surinama Linn..
Caudal femur of male.
Para Brazil.
X3.
Fig.
27.
 Tetratcenia phila new species.
Caudal femur of male tjDe.
X3.
Fig.
28.
 Chloropseiistes leucotylus new genus and species.
Lateral view of male type.
X2i.
Fig.
29.
 Chlorop.e listen leucotylus new genus and species.
Pronotum of male type.
Dorsal view.
X7.
Fig.
30.
 Chloropseiistes leucotylus new genus and species.
Apex of abdomen of male type.
Lateral elevation.
X7.
Fig.
3L  Chloropseustes leucotylus new genus and species.
Apex of abdomen of female allotype.
Lateral elevation.
X7.
Fig.
32.
 Bucephalacris falcifer new species.
Apex of abdomen of male type.
Dorsal view.
X7.
Fig.
33.
 Bucephalacris falcifer new species.
Apex of abdomen of male type.
Lateral elevation.
X7.
Fig.
34.
 Sitalces jugatus new species.
Apex of abdomen of male type.
Lateral elevation.
X6.
Fig.
35.
 Sitalces jugatus new species.
Apex of abdomen of male type .
Dorsal view.'
X6.
Plate II.
Fig.
36.
 Ceraia capra new species.
Mesoand metasternal lobes of female tjpe.
X3.
Fig.
37.
 Ceraia capra new species.
Ovipositor and subgenital plate of female' type.
X2.
Fig.
38.
 Scaphura sphex new species.
Lateral view of tegmen of male type.
Xli Fig.
39.
 Scaphura sphex new species.
Head of male type.
Dorsal outline.
X5i.
Fig.
40.
 Scaphura sphex new species.
Pronotum of male type.
Lateral elevation.
X3.
Fig.
41.
 Phlugis chelifera new species.
Apex of abdomen of male type. Dorsal view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
42.
 Phlugis chelifera new species.
Apex of abdomen of male type. Ventral view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
43.
 Phlugis chelifera new species.
Apex of abdomen of male tje.
 Lateral elevation.
Greath' enlarged.
Fig.
44.
 Paralobaspis personata new species.
Pronotum of female type.
Lateral elevation.
X3.
Fig.
45.
 Paralobaspis personata new species.
Ovipositor of female type X4.
Fig.
46.
 Gryllacris harpistylata new species.
Apex of abdomen of male type Dorsal view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
47.
 Gryllacris harpistylata new species.
Apex of abdomen of male type.
Lateral elevation.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
48.
 Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species.
Tegmen of male type.
Dorsal field.
X8.
Fig.
49.
 Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species.
Tegmen of male type.
Lateral field.
X8.
Cerci and supraanal plate drawn from paratype as they are flexed inward in type.
17 Fig.
50.
 Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species.
Head and pronotum of male type.
Dorsal view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
51.
 Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species.
Palpus of male type.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
52.
 Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species.
Caudal tarsus and extremity of tibia of male.
Internal face.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
53.
 Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species.
Ovipositor of female allotype.
Xll.
Fig.
54.
 Anaxipha esau new species.
Caudal tarsus and extremity of tibia of female type.
External face.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
55.
 Anaxipha esau new species.
Cephalic tibia of female type.
Cephalic left and caudal right faces.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
56.
 Anaxipha simulacrum new species.
Dorsal field of tegmen of male allotype.
X7.
Fig.
57.
 Anaxipha simulacrum new species.
Head and pronotum of female type.
Lateral elevation.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
58.
 Anaxipha simulacrum new species.
Cephalic tibia of female tje.
Cephalic left and caudal right faces.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
59.
 Anaxipha simulacrum new species.
Ovipositor of female type.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
60.
 Anaxipha paroensis new species.
Dorsal field of tegmen of male type.
X7.
Fig.
61.
 Anaxipha parcensis new species.
Palpus of male type.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
62.
 Anaxipha paroensis new species.
Cephalic tibia of male type.
Cephalic left and caudal right faces.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
63.
 Anaxipha fistulator new species.
Dorsal field of tegmen of male type.
X7.
Fig.
64.
 Anaxipha fistulator new species.
Pronotum of male type.
Lateral elevation.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
65.
 Anaxipha fistulator new species.
Palpus of male type.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
66.
 Anaxipha fistulator new species.
Cephalic tibia of male tje.
Cephalic left and caudal right faces.
Greatly enlarged.
IFig.
67.
 Anaxipha stramenticia new species.
Dorsal field of tegmen of male type.
X7.
Tig.
68.
 Anaxipha stramenticia new species.
Head and pronotum of male type.
Lateral elevation.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
69.
 Anaxipha stramenticia new species.
Ovipositor of female allot'pe.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
70.
 Anaxipha stramenticia new species.
Cephalic tibia of male type.
Cephalic left and caudal right faces.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
71. Aphonomorphus surdus new species.
Dorsal field of tegmen of male mn type.
X2h.
Fig.
72.
 Aphonomorphus surdus new species.
Head of male type.
Cephalic view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
73.
 Aphonomorphus surdus new species.
Subgenital plate of male type.
Ventral view.
Greatly enlarged.
Fig.
74.
 Aphonomorphus surdus new species.
Cephalic tibia of male type.
Cephalic left and caudal right faces.
Greatly enlarged.
1918.
237 TWO NEW SHELLS FROM HAYTI.
BY E. G. VANATTA.
Odontosagda abbotti n. sp.
Figs.
1 2.
Shell small depressed translucent white.
Apex large obtuse spire lowconic sutures distinct whorls 4f  slowly increasing somewhat contabulate body whorl convex subangular above the periphery contracted below.
Surface smooth indistinct irregular the longitudinal strise 2 '7V2W' seen under a lens without spiral sculpture.
Umbilicus wide deep welllike its width contained about 4.5 times in the diameter of the shell.
Aperture lunate peristome simple acute convexly arched above depressed arcuate below.
Columella slightly refiexed parietal callus very thin.
Palatal wall with traces of a callus at the periphery and base near the peristome.
At a distance of about onefourth of a whorl within the aperture two short high white teeth or lamella3 may be seen.
These and a third tooth are visible through the translucent base.
One very oblique transverse tooth is situated near the periphery another longer one is plac'ed spirally on the base and traces of the third very short one may be indistinctly seen through the shell on the columellar wall close to the suture within the umbilicus.
Alt. 1.22 diam. 2.1 aperture alt. .75 diam. .83 mm.
The types are in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia tray No.
118240 from The General's Cave one mile west of Jeremie Hayti.
Found in debris collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott at the base of a cliff about 300 yards from the seashore.
This species cUffers from 0. hilli Pfr. of Cuba which it resembles most in shape by being smaller the palatal lamellse are shorter.
The apex and umbilicus are also smaller.
It also differs from 0. blandi Weinl. of Hayti by having a more depressed spire fewer whorlsIt is also smaller the palatal lamina near the periphery is not lunate the basal lamina is shorter and the umbilicus is larger.
238 May Obeliscus abbotti n. sp.
Fig.
3.
Shell elongate subcylindrical whorls 6 imperforate.
Apex obtuse very wide large suture impressed and crenulate surface nearly smooth under the lens irregularly longitudinally substriate.
Aperture high narrow oval outer lip partially broken thin evenly arcuate not very convex base narrow columella rather thick with an indistinct indication of a truncation at the base parietal callus comparatively thick.
Alt. 5.56 diam. 1.5 aperture alt. 1.5 cliam. .93 mm.
The types are in the Academy's collection tray No.
118244 from The General's Cave west of Jeremie Hayti.
Found with the above species in debris collected by Dr W. L. Abbott in whose honor these two species are named.
Obeliscus ahhotti differs from 0. swiftiana Pfr.
by being smaller more cylindrical the apex is more obtuse and the suture is crenulate.
