A FOSSIL OWL FROM THE BRIDGER EOCENE.
BY ALEXANDER WETMORE.
In 1873 Dr. Joseph Leidy described some fragments of bone supposed to be those of a large lizard from the Bridger deposits of Wyoming as Saniwa major basing this name on the distal end of a humerus and two fragmentary vertebrae.
The type specimens preserved in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia were borrowed recently by Mr. C. W. Gilmore who had recognized that the type material was probably composite and to him and to Dr. Witmer Stone I am indebted for permission to study the humerus in question which proves to be that of a bird.
Though Dr. Leidy considered this humerus as lacertilian and compared it with that of a monitor it is readily seen that it does not belong in this group as there is no sign of an epiphysis on the articular end of the bone.
The specimen is well fossilized and is dark green in color save along the condyles where it is lighter and has a somewhat chalky appearance a circumstance that perhaps led to its allocation in the Sauria as it may have been thought that this lighter area was epiphysial in character.
The two broken vertebrae mentioned must stand as the type of Saniwa major Leidy and are hereby so designated.
The avian humerus representing an owl of the family Bubonidae may be known as Minerva saurodosis sp.
nov.
Characters.
 Distal end of humerus figs.
1 and 2 similar in general form to Bubo virginianus Gmelin but smaller with radial and ulnar trochleae reduced in size ulnar trochleae less produced distally toward outer end angle at base of ulnar condyle on inner anterior face sloping gently not abrupt  surface above entepicondylar process broader less elevated sloping gradually into brachial depression entepicondylar process slighter lateral margin of bone above ectepicondylar process relatively less broadened with more rounded margins expanding to support entepicondyle shaft expanding somewhat to support ectepicondylar process.
Description.
 Type Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia no.
9131 distal end of left humerus from near LodgePole Trail Crossing Dry Creek about ten miles from Fort Bridger Wyoming Eocene 455 456 Part III Bridger formation collected by Dr. James Van A. Carter between 1869 and 1872.
A bird slightly larger than the Barred Owl Strix varia Barton smaller than the Great Horned Owl Buho virginianus Gmelin.
Distal end of humerus much expanded as in other owls the diameter across the condyles nearly twice that of the shaft  end of ectepicondylar process broken away the shaft sloping out to support base of process lateral epicondyle produced shelf like between base of ectepicondylar process and radial trochlea confluent inwardly with base of shaft with outer margin below ectepicondylar process raised so that the shelf appears excavated concave changing outwardly to a shallow groove delimiting the external face of the radial trochlea and disappearing as it comes to the summit of the articular surface radial trochlea short roundly elevated slightly sigmoid in outline bulging over shelf of lateral epicondyle sharply declivous on opposite side at inner end forming a right angle with shaft ulnar trochlea relatively small not abruptly elevated above shaft on inner side articular surface slightly weathered away so that a slight angular tip was formerly present  slender toward outer margin so that rounded articular head is reduced intertrochlear groove narrow with sharp slope toward radial side and more gradual one opposite toward ulnar trochlea attachment for pronator brevis extensive roughly elUptical in outUne relatively more extensive than in modern owls as it is nearly as long as globular portion of ulnar trochlea attachments for pronator longus and flexor carpi ulnaris roughly rounded well impressed outer face of median epicondyle expanded on both margins appearing as a somewhat elliptical expansion at lower end of shaft slightly impressed on outer face above base of entepicondylar process  depression for brachiaUs inferior distinct but only slightly impressed more distinct toward ulnar margin olecranal depression fairly deep abruptly delimited against median epicondyle with extent lss sharply cut off by expansion of ulnar trochlea merging imperceptibly into shaft forward sulcus anconei lateralis narrow shallowly and regularly concave disappearing after leaving lateral epicondyle sulcus anconei medius broad divided into two unequal parts by a slightly raised line passing from upper margin of olecranal fossa obliquely to margin of shaft at point where the lateral epicondyle tapers gradually into straight shaft bone hollow.
Measurements in millimeters.
 Lateral breadth of shaft above depression for brachialis inferior 8.5 breadth across distal end 18.7 Fig.
1.
Minerva saurodosis.
Anterior view of type.
Fig.
2.
Minerva saufodosis.
View of condyles.
extreme length of radial trochlea 7.8 greatest length of attachment for pronator brevis 6.
Range.
 From Bridger formation Eocene near Fort Bridger Wyoming.
Remarks.
 The broken humerus described above here exhumed from a resting place among its coldblooded relatives the lizards represents an owl smaller than Bubo virginianus similar in size to Pulsatrix perspicillata Latham that does not resemble closely any existing genus of modern North American owls but in a way combines characters pertaining to several.
Minerva saurodosiswas apparently a bird of moderate flight as processes for muscle attachment while strong are not rugged as they are in the Great Horned and Snowy Owls that perform extended migrations.
In general outline the humerus of M. saurodosis suggests that of Bubo but with the processes and tubercles developed even to a less degree than in the Barred Owl Spotted Owl or Pulsatrix perspicillata.
It is judged that it may have been a resident species.
The generic allocation of this ancient owl is more or less tentative.
In 1913 .Dr.
R. W. Shufeldti described as Aquila antiqua the hind claw of a bird collected August 4 1905 by W. J. Sinclair in the Bridger formation at Church Buttes Wyoming.
Later Dr. Shufeldt after study of further material decided that this species should be relegated to the owls and set up the genus Minerva to receive it.
The species of a size much larger than any existing North American Owls was characterized bj the great prolongation of the dorsal articular surface of the hind claw.
This upper angle projects until the articular facet forms almost half of a circle.
This character while more pronounced in owls than in other groups that I have examined much more than in available Accipitriformes reaches a development in Minerva far beyond that of any modern owl that I have seen.
To allow flexibility in movement it must have been received in a deeper pit than ordinary on the distal end of the digital phalanx.
Otherwise the hind claw would have had little power of backward flexion.
A structure similar to this type of articular facet would be formed by ankylosis of the sesamoid found at the upper end of the claw articulation in many lizards with the end of the bone.
1 Bull.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. Vol.
XXXIl Aug. 4 1913 p. 297.
2 Trans.
Connecticut Acad.
Arts Sci. Vol.
19 Feb. 1915 p. 43.
As Minerva aniiqua represents a specialized type of owl from the Bridger formation it seems more logical at present to describe the present species also a peculiar form from the same deposits in the genus Minerva than to erect for it a new genus.
With further material the two may be found widely and trenchantly separated.
For the present Minerva saurodosis is to be distinguished from M. antiqua by its much smaller size.
Strangely enough M. saurodosis as represented by this broken humerus has little resemblance to Tyto a possible indication of the archaic origin of the Barn Owl while to go farther afield it shows little to suggest any of the Goatsuckers or the Oilbird Steatornis .
In other than generalized group resemblances there is in fact slight connection evident between it and any of the other Coraciiform suborders.
There are certain resemblances to the Anisodactylae Kingfishers Todies Motmots etc.
 as well as to the superfamily Galbuloidae of the Picariae containing the Jacamars and Puffbirds but these similarities are not close.
458 scrophulariaceae of the west gulf states.
By Francis W. Pennell.
This study deals with the plants of the family Scrophulariaceae occurring in the area west of the Mississippi and east of the Pecos rivers in the states of Arkansas Oklahoma Louisiana and Texas.
It follows closely the manner of presentation of the account of the Scrophulariaceae of the Southeastern United States which appeared in these Proceedings in 1920 and the introduction to that paper will in most points apply to this.
To the West Gulf states I have made two collectingtrips one in spring and one in early autumn.
The latter the first in point of time was in 1913 through central Oklahoma central and southeastern Texas Louisiana and Arkansas and was in search of the plants herein classed in the tribe Buchnereae.
Nearly every species of these genera was found and descriptions were made of the form and color of corolla and other evanescent features.
This study was undertaken on behalf of the University of Pennsylvania and its results still await publication in the Contributions from the Botanical Laboratory of that institution.
Unexpectedly therefore a number of new species and geographic varieties will first appear on these pages.
In late April and May of 1920 I visited all of these states for earlyflowering species obtaining in chief variety species of the genera Penstemon and Castilleja.
This second journey made in the interests of the New York Botanical Garden took me across southern Louisiana and Texas to Corpus Christi inland through central Texas and up to the Staked Plains of the northwest across Oklahoma from west to east and across the Ozark Mountains and into the pineland of eastern Arkansas.
Neither route need now be cited in detail as all localities are given in the lists which classified by counties accompany each species.
Suffice it to say for both trips the fielddescriptions obtained and the observations of the limits of variation of each species have been beyond iProc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
PhUa.
71 224291.
1920.
459 value.
In this manner group by group should all our vast body of herbariumconclusions be checked and revalued in the field
The tribe least studied in this area is the Gratioleae.
These are summerblooming and unfortunately were not included among the special objects of search of my first journey.
However only in Gratiola do I feel this loss and it remains for some future worker to give us needed information of G. gracilis and G. flava.
Most of the tribe but slightly enter the area from the East Gulf states and are species wellknown eastward.
Of other tribes I particularly deplore not finding in blossom Leucophyllum said to be one of the finest ornamental shrubs of Texas.
Species of still other tribes were missed but while it would have been a pleasure to have seen what must be among the most showy members of their respective genera Penstemon tnurrayanus and Castilleja purpurea yet such distinct species are not in need of close analysis.
When the attempt is made to express in terms of natural areas of distribution the ranges of various species over an area such as this one realizes how far ahead is still any comprehensive outlining of phytogeographic areas in our country.
However I have tried to use terms that have some definiteness physiographic or geologic.
In Louisiana and eastern Texas we have some preliminary sketches by Roland M. Harper in Texas the outlines of Vernon Bailey W. L. Bray and R. T. Hill and in both Texas and Oklahoma excellent geological maps.
In each state careful state surveys of plant and animal distribution are needed and such tasks should call forth local enthusiasm.
Mr. Bailey's study is the most accurate of those seen and applies carefully the system of lifezones evolved by the Biological Survey.
Although I am an ardent devotee of this system when applied in mountainous regions I can but wonder what value a lifezone outline can be in such a land as Texas.
Lifezones lay stress upon the one factor of temperature  in the Rockies and Andes the limits of bands of temperaturecontrolled vegetation are distinct enough but surely across flat and rolling Texas the student of distribution must pay more attention to moisture and soil.
However for  Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 47 289317.
.
15.
1920.
3N.
Am.
Fauna 25 1222. pi.
116 f. 124.
1905.
 Bull.
Univ.
Texas 82 1108. pi.
114 f141906.
 Physical Geography of the Texas Region Topog.
Atlas U S. A. Folio 3 112.
.
166.
1900. species of upland Texas following Bailey's map I have given lifezone  but only to make as definite as possible my statement of range.
Usually I have been content with other terms.
Nearly everywhere through the West Gulf states I have found collections so few and remote as to make any statement of range only a skeleton outline and a study of probabilities.
We have quite insufficient collections from the West Gulf states.
Yet that there are many who have had some interest in this flora the list of collectors at the close of this article testifies.
To all these collectors I feel my indebtedness as also I am under obligations to the curators of the several herbaria also listed herewith who have placed at my disposal the material in their care.
The Missouri Botanical Garden has undertaken a special investigation of the plantlife of the West Gulf states and Mr. Ernest J. Palmer's work is giving us our best understanding of their flora.
In the present outline as in the study of southeastern Scrophulariaceae are given full keys to contrasts noted but these made to apply only to species of the area considered.
A further modification of the phylogeny of this family one which was introduced in my study of the  Scrophulariaceae of Colombia is to consider Mimulus as a tribe apart from the Gratioleae.
Synonomy is now given and the apphcation of each name explained again this data is only given as it pertains to native species or to species proposed from this area.
Available typic and isotypic material has been studied and the Academy's herbarium has proven rich in the types of Nuttall's and of Leavenworth's Arkansas species.
To show the basis for the summaries of distribution and to enable others from other viewpoints to work with this data I am citing for native species all localities from which specimens have been seen.
These are fisted by states and alphabetically by counties the name of the county being followed by a colon.
One collection to a county is cited.
The letters in parentheses following the collectionentry refer to the herbarium in which the specimen may be consulted and their application may be found from the list of herbaria given at the end of this paper.
Corolla with the posterior lobes external in the bud.
ANTIRRHINOIDEAE.
Capsule septicidal or locuficidal by a simple slit the septum breaking from the capsulewall or rupturing.
Corolla not spurred nor saccate anteriorly.
Stigma twolipped.
Inflorescence simply racemose.
Leaves opposite.
Herbs.
Capsule septicidal or secondarily also somewhat loculicidal placentae simple.
Sepals distinct or nearly so.
Leaves and capsule somewhat glandularpunctate.
I. Gratioleae Capsule locuhcidal only tardily septicidal if at all  placentae branched and widely spreading.
Sepals united over one half length.
Leaves and capsule not glandularpunctate.
II.
MiMULEAE.
Stigma capitate.
Capsule septicidal.
Leaves alternate.
Plant frequently with stellate hairs.
Corolla slightly zygomorphic.
Filaments all with fertile anthers.
Inflorescence simply racemose.
Corolla yellow or white rotate its lobes much longer than the tube.
Filaments five.
Herbs.
III.
Verbasceae.
Corolla rosepink with orange markings campanulate its lobes shorter than the tube.
Filaments four the posterior lost.
Shrub.
IV.
Leucophylleae.
Leaves opposite.
Plant never with stellate hairs.
Corolla tubularcampanulate zygomorphic its lobes shorter than the tube.
Filaments five the posterior without anther the others didynamous.
Inflorescence simply racemose or of cymose fascicles.
Herbs.
V. Cheloneae.
Capsule loculicidal the septum and adjacent capsulewall persisting the remaining wall splitting irregularly.
Corolla saccate or spurred at base of anterior petal.
Leaves alternate.
Herbs.
VI.
Antirrhineae.
Corolla with the anterior lobes external in the bud.
Herbs.
RHINANTHOIDEAE.
Stamens two the posterolaterals present the anterolaterals completely lost.
Anterolateral lobes of corolla external in bud.
Not parasitic.
Sepals four the posterior lost.
Posterior lobes of corolla completely united.
Capsule loculicidal.
VII.
Veroniceae.
Stamens four didynamous the anterolaterals usually sUghtly the longer.
Usually perhaps always parasitic on the roots of other plants.
Sepals five alike more or less united.
Corollalobes all somewhat distinct the two posterior spreading or arched or flattened anterior lobe external in the bud.
Capsule loculicidal.
VIII.
Buchnereae.
Posterior sepal shorter or wanting.
Corolla decidedly twolipped the posterior lobes united and arched nearly to apex the anterior lobes shorter anterior or one anterolateral lobe external in the bud.
Capsule septicidal or loculicidal.
IX.
Rhinantheae.
1921 natural sciences of philadelphia.
463 1.
Gratioleae.
Leaves entire to serrate.
Seeds brown or yellow.
Corolla with the ridges to the anterolateral sinuses low and not projecting beyond those points so anterior filaments simple.
Posterior lobes of the corolla httle shorter than the anterior.
Seeds reticulate or longitudinally striate.
Pedicels frequently bibracteolate.
Anthersacs proximate no connective arms developed.
Seeds reticulate.
Leaves not cordate clasping at base.
Pedicels bibracteolate or in Gratiola the bractlets sometimes several one or wanting.
Leaves pinnately veined except in Hydrotrida Styles united throughout.
Sepals five acute or obtuse.
Pedicels bracted at base remote from the calyx.
Corolla yellow or white pubescent within at base of posterior lobes.
Stamens four.
Sepals unequal and leaves serrate.
Plants erect or ascending.
1.
Mecardonia.
Pedicels bracted at apex just beneath calyx.
Fertile filaments two the anterior being rudimentary or wanting.
Corolla yellow or white its tube much longer than the lobes.
Outermost sepal never more than twice width of innermost.
Plants erect.
Corollatube broad within densely pubescent on the posterior side.
Sepals of nearly uniform length.
Plants relatively lax or succulent the leaves and sepals plane.
2.
Gratiola.
Corollatube very narrow within uniformly shortpubescent on all sides.
Sepals very unequal in length.
Plant stiff the leaves and sepals re volute.
3.
Sophronanthe.
Filaments four all with anthers.
Corolla blue or white its tube little longer than the lobes.
Outermost sepal over twice width of innermost.
Plants repent.
Corolla pubescent within over bases of all lobes blue throughout posterior lobes united to apex.
A circle of bristles surrounding the base of the ovary.
Outer sepal shghtly cor date evidently exceeding the lineara ttenuate innermost.
Capsuje less than one half as broad as long.
Pedicels spreading in fruit.
Leaves clasping broadest proximally crenate with five to seven longitudinal nerves.
Stem pubescent.
Plant lemonscented.
4.
Hydrotrida.
Corolla glabrous within the throat yellow the lobes white posterior lobes distinct.
No hypogynous bristles.
Outer sepal ovate scarcely exceeding the lanceolate innermost.
Capsule over one half as broad as long.
Pedicels reflexing in fruit.
Leaves cuneate at base spatulateoblong entire with one evident longitudinal nerve.
Stem glabrous.
Plant inodorous.
5.
Bramia.
Pedicels not bracteolate.
Leaves palmately veined.
Styles distinct near apex.
Sepals four or five very obtuse unequal in width.
Corolla white.
Plants repent the stems pubescent.
Corolla 78 mm.
long fivelobed because the two posterior and the three anterior lobes are all developed and distinct.
Stamens four.
Sepals five or four.
Leaves entire.
6.
Macuillamia.
Corolla 2 mm.
long threelobed because the two posterior lobes have united and the anterior petal is lost leaving the anterior lip twolobed.
Stamens three only one of the antero lateral pair developed.
Sepals four.
Leaves repand.
7.
Hydrathelium.
Anthersacs separated on short arms of the connective.
Seeds longitudinally striate the striae tuberculate.
Leaves cordateclasping at base.
Corolla blue.
Pedicels bibracteolate.
Plants erect or repent the stems pubescent.
8.
Stemodia.
Corolla violetblue or white with two raised ridges each formed by the adherence of a filament to the anterolateral sinuses and which project as knobUke processes beyond those points the free portion of the filament appearing as a lateral outgrowth of the adherent portion.
Posterior lobes of the corolla less than two thirds the length of the anterior.
Seeds with with fine transverse lines.
Pedicels never bracteolate.
Perfect stamens two.
Corolla violetblue 611 mm.
long the posterior lobes distinct distally.
Posterolateral stamens perfect the anterolateral filaments without anthers.
Style with an enlarged white base.
Sepals five.
Capsule twocelled oval in outline 25 mm.
long.
Plants erect or ascending.
9.
Ilysanthes.
Corolla palelavender or white 1.52 mm.
long the posterior lobes united throughout.
Posterolateral stamens lost the anterolateral filaments with anthers.
Style filamentous to base.
Sepals four the posterior lost.
Capsule onecelled at maturity by loss of septum distally the placentae being short globose 1 mm.
long.
Plant repent.
10.
Glohifera.
Leaves bipinnatifid.
Seeds pale greenishyellow ridged with faint transverse lines.
Corolla lavender.
Pedicel not bracteolate.
Plant erect.
11.
Leucospora.
II.
MiMULEAE.
12.
Mimulus.
III.
Verbasceae.
13.
Verbascmn.
IV.
Leucophylleae.
14.
Leucophyllum.
V. Cheloneae.
Seeds angled maturing many to a cell.
Corollalobes uniformly colored shorter than the tube which is not pouched at base posteriorly.
Posterior filament a conspicuous process.
Sepals nearly or quite distinct.
Inflorescence compound.
Plants perennial stiff 320 dm.
tall.
Corolla 15.50 mm.
long red blue or white its three anterior lobes projecting or slightly recurving.
Sterile filament  elongate slender white.
Sepals 313 mm.
long.
Seeds irregularly polyedral.
Inflorescence a thyrsus or relatively narrow panicle.
Cauline leaves sessile mostly clasping.
Stem terete.
15.
Penstemon.
Corolla 612 mm.
long redbrown its anterolateral lobes vertically projecting and its anterior lobe deflexecl.
Sterile filament wider than long twolobed yellow or brown.
Sepals 2.53 mm.
long.
Seeds oblong ridged.
Inflorescence a panicle.
Cauline leaves petioled.
Stem quadrangular.
16.
Scwphularia.
Seeds rounded smooth maturing one to each ceil.
Anterior corollalobes blue the posterior white all longer than the tube which is strongly pouched at base posteriorly.
Posterior filament a crescentic scarcely raised process.
Sepals united over one third length enclosing over half the capsule.
Inflorescence racemose often several flowers to an axil.
Plant annual lax 13 dm.
tall.
17.
Collinsia.
VI.
Antirrhineae.
Corolla broad 10 mm.
wide blue with prominent yellow palate its tube saccate at base anteriorly.
Sepals 810 mm.
long.
Leaves petioled the blade triangular hastate with broad lobes.
Stems elongate twining.
18.
Maurandya.
Corolla narrow yellow or blue its tube with a conspicuous spur at base anteriorly.
Sepals 3 mm.
long.
Leaves sessile linear.
Stems erect.
19.
Linaria.
VII.
Veroniceae.
Leaves whorled.
Corolla white or pinkish its lobes shorter than the tube.
Capsule acute longer than wide not flattened dehiscing by short apical sUts.
Seeds slightly reticulate.
Plant 1020 dm.
tall.
20.
Veronicastrum.
Leaves opposite or alternate.
Corolla blue or white its lobes longer than the tube.
Capsule truncate to deeply notched wider than long flattened dehiscing its entire length.
Seeds not reticulate.
Plants lower.
2L Veronica.
VIII.
BUCHNEREAE.
Corolla yellow or pink the throat inflated and the orifice widely open.
Stamens all with anthers twocelled.
Filaments and style nearly as long as or longer than the tube of the corolla.
Capsule exserted from the calyxtube.
Pedicels not bracteolate.
Anthercells glabrous or with a few bristlelike hairs at apex.
Stigma short punctiform or capitate.
Filaments dilatedflattened and pubescent.
Corolla jellow.
Corolla densely pubescent within on all sides its lobes all distinct and slightly shorter than the tube.
Filaments clearly didynamous dilated and pubescent throughout.
Anthersacs each opening by a slit its entire length.
Style short thick more or less bilobed persistent and reflexed on the capsule.
Pedicels 12 mm.
long.
Plant stout 1520 dm.
tall the leaves 1030 cm.
long.
22.
Dasistoma.
Corolla slightly pubescent within in a ring about the base of the filaments and below the posterior sinus its lobes longer than the tube the two posterior united nearly one half their length.
Filaments nearly equal dilated and pubescent proximally for not over half their length.
Anthersacs each opening by a slit not over half its length.
Style long slender entire deciduous straight.
Pedicels 312 mm.
long.
Plants more slender 210 dm.
tall the leaves 13 cm.
long.
23.
AJzelia.
Anthercslls lanose on the valvular surface.
Stigma linear consisting of a line down each side of the linguiform styleapex.
Filaments slender not dilated more or less lanate.
Corolla yellow.
Capsule acute to acuminate.
Leaves lanceolate to ovate entire to bipinnatifid petioled.
Stem stout over 5 dm.
tall.
24.
Aureolaria.
Corolla pink with red spots within on the anterior side.
Capsule rounded with a mucro.
Leaves filiform to lanceolate sessile.
Stem usually slender.
Stem ascendingscabrous to glabrous.
Leaves lanceolate to filiform entire or slightly lobed at base.
Pedicels 1 mm.
long or more.
Calyxlobes linear to subulate slightly longer than to much shorter than the tube.
Anthersacs of both pairs of stamens uniform.
Capsule oblong to globose 311 mm long.
Seeds closely reticulate.
25.
Agalinis.
Stem retrorsehispid.
Leaves lanceolate and usually auricled at base or bipihnatifid.
Pedicels less than 1 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes ovate longer than the tube.
Anthersacs of posterior stamens shorter.
Capsule ovate 813 mm.
long.
Seeds reticulate with raised ridges.
26.
Otophylla.
Corolla purpleblue or white salverform the tube very narrow and densely pilose within the lobes widely spreading.
Stamens each with but one anthersac developed.
Filaments and style less than one half length of corollatube.
Capsule mostly or quite enclosed within calyxtube.
Pedicels bibracteolate.
27.
Buchnera.
IX.
Rhinantheae.
Sepals five all distinct the posterior shorter than the others.
Pedicels bibracteolate.
Capsule turgid septicidal only ' tardily slightly loculicidally dehiscent.
Seeds linear flat 2 mm.
long.
28.
Schwalbea.
Sepals four those of each side united the posterior one wanting.
Pedicels not bracted.
Capsule flattened loculicidal splitting even across the septum.
Seeds turgid.
Corolla greenish to yellow distally the posterior lobes projecting not hooded at apex the anterior lobes much shorter and at least proximally somewhat thickened and deepgreen.
Capsule cylindric equally twocelled in dehiscence splitting on both posterior and anterior sides shorter than and enclosed within the calyx.
Seeds many reticulate.
Bracts foliaceous usually distally yellow or red.
Leaves entire to pinnatifidlobed.
29.
Castilleja.
Corolla yellow throughout the posterior lobes arched hooded at apex the anterior lobes welldeveloped membranous thin colored.
Capsule ensiform unequally twocelled splitting only on the posterior side exserted from and twice the length of the calyx.
Seeds few not reticulate.
Bracts not colored.
Leaves bipinnatifidlobed.
30.
Pedicularis.
1.
MECARDONIA Ruiz and Pavon.
Mecardonia R. and P. Syst.
Veg.
Fl.
Peruv.
et Chil.
164.
1798.
Type species M. ovata Ruiz  Pavon of Peru.
Corolla white its posterior lobes united  their length.
Outer sepals lanceolate rarely more than twice width of inner.
Leafblades prevailingly lanceolate conspicuously cuneate at base.
Erect or somewhat diffuse.
1.
M. acuminata.
Corolla yellow its posterior lobes united nearly to apex.
Outer sepals narrowly ovate to ovate more than three times width of inner.
Leaf blades prevailingly ovate or oval more shortly cuneate at base.
Procumbent or ascending.
2.
M. peduncular is.
I. Mecardonia acuminata Walt.
Small.
Gratiola acuminata Walt. Fl.
Carol.
61.
1788.
Type not verified but description evidently of plant here considered.
Doubtless from lower South Carolina where this plant is common.
Pagesia leucantha Raf. Fl.
Ludov.
49.
1817.
Chelone 2.
Rob.
p. 406. 
In Robin Voy.
Louisiane .
.
.3 406.
1807 is a description unmistakably of the plant here considered.
Robin even mentions two little leaflets in each leafaxil by which are evidently denoted the bractlets subtending the base of the pedicel the presence of which has been generally overlooked.
Type of genus Pagesia Raf. 1. c. 48.
Gratiola rigida Raf. Atl.
Jour.
1 176.
1833.
Texas or Arkanzas in my Herbarium.
Type not known to exist.
Description can apply to only this species the rigid stems leafoutline and narrow calyxlobes with the superior one broader being distinctive.
Mecardonia acuminata Walt.
Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1065 1337.
1903.
Corolla white within with longitudinal pink veins on the posterior side.
Flowering from May to September and soon ripening fruit.
Moist sandy loam or heavier loam soil usually near streams in pineland or deciduous woodland frequent or common through the Coastal Plain of eastern Arkansas Louisiana and eastern Texas probably absent from the Mississippi bottomland  also inland probably along sandy riverand creekbeds to eastern Oklahoma.
Ranges from Maryland to Florida and Texas extending inland to western Kentucky southern Missouri and eastern Oklahoma.
Arkansas.
Hot Spring EggertY.
Jefferson Springs Pennell 10662 Y.
Miller Texarkana Letterman Y.
Nevada Prescott Letterman U.
Pulaski Little Rock Hasse Y.
Oklahoma.
Creek Sapulpa Bush 407 U Y.
Louisiana.
Caddo Shreveport Gregg A.
Calcasieu DeQuincy Pennell 10229 Y.
West Carroll  Moseley U.
Texas.
Bowie Texarkana Heller 4170 A U Y.
Brazoria Columbia Bush 1413 A Y.
Harris Harrisburg U Houston Fisher 1744 U.
2.
Mecardonia peduncularis Benth.
Small.
Herpestis peduncularis Benth.
in Conipan.
Bot.
Mag.
2 56.
1836.
Hab.
Texas on the Rio Brazos Drummond v.
s..
Type not verified but description sufficiently distinctive.
Mecardoniaviridis Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1065 1338.
1903.
Type HeUer PI.
So.
Tex. no.
1460 in Herb.
C.
U.
Type collected at Corpus Christi Nueces Co. Texas Mar.
1421 1894 seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Mecardonia peduncularis Benth.
Small 1. c. 1065 1338.
1903.
Closely allied to the widespread Tropical Mecardonia procumhens Miller Small but apparently distinguishable by narrower outer sepals and longer pedicels.
M. tenuis Small of the Florida Keys and the Bahamas seems to differ constantly from this in possessing sepals 56 mm.
long instead of 79 mm.
long.
Corolla yellow within with longitudinal brown veins especially on the posterior side.
Flowering from March to May and soon ripening fruit  lingering blossoming later Sandy or clayey soil prairie or open woodland common on the Coast Prairie of middle coastal Texas frequent inland across the Coastal Plain and along streamcourses entering the hills of the  Edwards Plateau and the Burnet Metamorphic Region ranges from Walker and Brazoria to Burnet Bexar and Duval counties Texas.
Texas.
Austin Kenney Pennell 10305 M T Y Walhs Pennell 10269 C P U Y.
Bexar Comanche Spring Lindheimer 1054 A T U Y San Antonio.
Blanco Blanco Reverchon 1574 U.
Brazoria Columbia Bush 134 U Y.
Burnet Fairland Pennell 10475 A H K Y.
Marble Falls.
Comal Bracken New Braunfels Lindheimer 1055 U Y.
Dewitt Cuero Bray 127 U.
EHival San Diego Croft U.
Gillespie Jermy 168  .
Harris  Harrisburg Pennell 10249 H Y  Houston Pennell 10247 Y 10252 C M Y 10260 A H J L M 0 P S T U Y.
Hays San Marcos Stanfield Y.
Kerr Kerrville Pennell 10378 Y.
Lampasas Lampasas Plank Y.
Nueces Corpus Christi Heller 1460 A U Y.
Travis Barton Springs Shoal Creek Young T.
Victoria Victoria Lewton 96 U.
Walker Huntsville Young T.
2.
GRATIOLA Linne.
Gratiola L. Sp.
PI 17.
1753.
Type species G. officinalis L. of Europe.
Corolla slightly exceeding calyx externally glabrous.
Capsule nearly pyramidal acuminate.
Pedicels very short.
Leaves lanceolateovate to crenate rounded at base.
Plant pubescent with severalcelled hairs.
1.
G. pilosa.
Corolla at least twice as long as the calyx.
Capsule broader acute to rounded.
Pedicels longer.
Stem glabrous or pubescent with onecelled hairs these frequently glandbearing.
Corolla within throat on posterior side densely pubescent with knobbed hairs.
Capsule ovate in outline 15 mm.
long.
Seeds .3.5 mm.
long semiglobose to oblong.
Pedicels slender at least twice the length of the sepals.
Capsule 12 mm.
long much exceeded by the sepals.
Stemleaves clasping by a broad base denticulate usually at least the upper with resinous dots.
Rootstocks developed perennial slender.
2.
G.ramosadrummondii.
Capsule 35 mm.
long about equaled by or longer than the sepals.
Stemleaves narrowed to a sessile or slightly clasping base obscurely or not resinousdotted.
Roots apparently annual the main root short.
Corollalobes white the tube yellowish.
Capsule globoseovate about equaled by the sepals.
Seeds yellowish the reticulations relatively fine and not making the seed rough in contour.
Stems relatively thick and fleshy.
Corolla externally glandularpuberulent.
Leaves 25 cm.
long ovatelanceolate serratedentate distally.
3.
G. negleda.
Corolla externally glabrous apparently.
Leaves .515 cm.
long nearly linear entire.
4.
G. gracilis.
Corolla goldsn yellow throughout glabrous externally.
Capsule ovatepjTamidal nearly twice as long as the sepals.
Seeds brown the reticulations relatively coarse and making the seed rough in contour.
Stem thin not fleshy.
5.
G. flava.
Corolla within throat on posterior side pubescent with unknobbed hairs.
Capsule globose 56 mm.
long.
Seeds .7 mm.
long linear.
Pedicels stout less than twice the length of the sepals.
Leaves and root as in negleda.
6.
G. virainiana.
1.
Gratiola pilosa Michx.
Gratiola pilosa Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Am.
1 7.
1803.
Hab.
in Carolinae inferioris uliginosis A.
Michaux.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Corolla white throat distally with faint bluishpurple lines on all petals.
Flowering from June to September and soon ripening fruit.
Moist sandy soil pineland or deciduous woodland through the Coastal Plain of eastern Arkansas Louisiana and eastern Texas.
Ranges from New Jersey to Florida central Arkansas and eastern Texas.
Arkansas.
Jefferson Kearney Pennell 10656 Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Letterman 359 U Y.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu De Quincy Pennell 10237 Y.
Rapides Alexandria Hale Y.
Texas.
Austin Kenney Pennell 10304 Y.
Smith Swan Reverchon 3218 U Y.
Weller Hempstead Hall 413 U Y.
2.
Gratiola ramosa drummondii Benth.
Pennell comb.
nov. Gratiola drummondii Benth.
in DC Prod.
1005.
1846.
In .... Texas Drummond
coll.
3. n. 285 ... v. s. Isotypes seen in herbaria of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden and of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Corolla with tube dullyellow the lobes dullwhite the tube with longitudinal brown lines.
Flowering from April to September and soon ripening fruit.
Moist or wet sandy pineland edge of ponds in and near pineland in the Coastal Plain of Louisiana and eastern Texas probably in southeastern Arkansas inland seen from the gravelly bed of the San Bois River in Haskell county Oklahoma.
Arkansas.
 Leavenworth Y.
OklaiIoivli.
Haskell San Bois River Bigelow U. Y.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu De Quincy Pennell 10222 A H K L M T U Y Lake Charles Allison 296 U Y St. Landry Chateigner Langlois Y.
Texas.
Angelina  Reverchon 3930 U.
Montgomery Harmon's Creek Dixon 453 Y.
Waller Hempstead Hall 412 U Y.
Apparently Gratiola ramosa Walt.
Fl.
Carol.
61.
1788 includes two incipient species to be distinguished as follows Capsule usually wider than long.
Sepals more than twice as long as the capsule usually subtended by one or two sepallike bractlets.
Stems 24 dm.
long more laxly ascending its leaves usually 1.52.5 cm.
long.
Plant usually less fleshy.
Southwestern Georgia and northcentral Florida to Texas and Oklahoma.
G. ramosa drummondii.
Capsule as long or longer than wide.
Sepals usually about twice as long as the capsule subtended by one small bractlet or none.
Stems 12 3 dm.
tall strictly erect its leaves usually less than 1.5 cm.
long.
Plant more fleshy.
South Carolina to Southern Florida and occasionally westward to eastern Louisiana.
G. ramosa.
3.
Gratiola neglecta Torr.
Chatiola neglecta Torr. Cat.
PI.
N. Y.
89.
1819.
Within thirty miles of the City of New York.
Probable tyije seen in Herb of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
For discussion see Torreya 19 146.
1919.
Corolla wdth tube greenishyellow the lobes white at times pinkish.
Flowering from April to June and soon ripening fruit.
Wet loam frequently sandy usually in deciduous woodland through the Coastal Plain of Arkansas Louisiana and eastern Texas  more common in the upland of Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma.
Ranges across the continent northward.
Arkansas.
Jefferson Jefferson Springs Pennell 10673 Y 10674 A C H K L M U Y.
Pope Russellville Pennell 10624 M Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Hasse Y.
Oklahoma.
Rogers Verdigris Bush 410 U.
Louisiana.
Rapides Alexandria Hale L.
St. Landry Ville Platte Langlois Y.
Texas.
Bowie Dalby Milligan U.
Harris Hockley Thuron U.
Liberty Dolen Young T.
4.
Gratiola gracilis Benth.
Gratiola gracilisBenth. in DC.
Prod.
10 402.
1846. 
In Texas prope Harrisburgh Drummond
Coll.
3. n. 284 .
.
.
v. s..
Type not verified and my search for the plant at Harrisburgh in May 1920 failed.
Gratiola torreyi Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1066 1338.
1903.
Type Wright Mex.
Bound.
Surv. in Herb.
C.
U.
Type collected on the  Colorado and Blanco Rivers Texas seen in the Herbarium of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Plant smaller and leaves narrower than described for G. gracilis.
Although described as  corolla goldenyellow the lobes as shown in the type were clearly white.
Apparently in the Coastal Plain of middle coastal Texas extending to the base of or entering along streams the hills of the Edwards Plateau of central Texas Littleknown.
5.
Gratiola flava Leavenworth nom.
nov. Gratiola pusilla Torr.
 Benth.
in DC.
Prod.
10402.
1846.
In campis humidis Texas
Arkansas
... v. s. comm.
a cl.
A.
Gray.
Probably based on collections of Dr. Leavenworth.
Not G. pusilla Willd. Sp.
PI.
1105.
1797.
The name Gratiola flava occurs with a specimen of Dr. Leavenworth's labeled as from prairies near the Sabine River Texas and which is in the Herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Very probably this is an isotype of G. pusilla Torr. as specimens of the same collection are in the Herbarium of Columbia University.
Sandy prairies in and near the pinelands of southern Arkansas western Louisiana and eastern Texas.
Littleknown.
Flowering in May and June and soon ripening fruit.
Arkansas.
Leavenworth Y.
Louisiana.
Hale Y.
Texas.
Waller Hempstead Hall 414 A U Y.
6.
Gratio'a virginiana L. Gratiola virginiana L. Sp.
PI.
17.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia.
For discussion of the type of this see S. F. Blake in Rhodora 20 6.5.
1918.
Corolla white within with longitudinal purple lines more pronounced on posterior side.
Flowering from March to May and soon ripening fruit.
Wet loam in shade usually along streams in the Coastal Plain of eastern Arkansas Louisiana and eastern Texas.
Ranges from New Jersey to Florida and Texas inland in the Mississippi Valley to Illinois and Missouri.
Arkansas.
Jefferson Eggert Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Hasse Y.
Louisiana.
New Orleans Drummond Y.
Texas.
Bowie Texarkana Letterman Y.
Harris Houston Biltm.
hb.
1215a U.
3.
SOPHRONANTHE Bentham.
Sophronanthe Benth.
 Lindl. Nat.
Syst.
Bot.
ed.
ii.
445.
1836.
Type species S. hispida Benth.
1.
Sophronanthe hispida Benth.
SophroJianthe hispida Benth. 1. c. 445.
1836.
The plant was gathered by Drummond at Apalachicola.
Isotype Drummond 20 seen in Herbarium of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Corolla with tube externally yellowishwhite within and on lobes white.
Flowering from May to September and soon ripening fruit.
To be expected in the dry sandy longleaf pineland but specimens have been seen only from Cameron Parish Louisiana.
Ranges within this belt from Southern Georgia and Florida westward to Louisiana.
Louisana.
Cameron Cameron Tracy 8710 Y.
4.
HYDROTRIDA Small.
Hydrolrida Small Fl.
Miami 165.
1913.
Type species Obolaria caroliniana Walt.
1.
Hydrotrida caroliniana Walt.
Small.
Oholaria caroliniana Walt. Fl.
Carol.
166.
1788.
Type not verified but description sufficiently distinctive.
Doubtless from lower South Carolina a district where the species now considered is frequent.
Hydrotrida caroliniana Walt.
Small 1. c. 165.
1913.
Corolla uniformly skyblue.
Flowering from May to September and soon ripening fruit.
Aquatic in shallow water sandy soil edges of ponds and in small streams in longleaf pineland of southern Louisiana.
Ranges within this belt from North Carolina to Florida and Louisiana.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu Lake Charles Allison 209 U Y Perkins Pennell 10213 Y.
Rapides Alexandria Hale C U .
5.
BRAMIA Lamarck.
Bramia Lam. Encyc.
Meth. Bot.
1 459.
1785.
Type species B. indica Lam. of India.
1.
Bramia monnieri L. Pennell.
Lysimachia monnieri L. Cent.
PI.
2  9.
1756. 
Habitat in America meridionali.
Hallman.
D. Z. Hallman sent to Linne specimens from Spain so it would appear that the type of this was probably transmitted through him from some source in Spanish America.
Bramia monnieri L. Pennell in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
71 243.
1920.
Corolla with tube yellowish within elsewhere white or tinged with pink.
Flowering from April to September and soon ripening fruit.
Sandy shores expecially where subject to inundation along the coast of Louisiana and Texas common within tidewater both where brackish and where fresh also inland along streams in central Texas to Burnet and Gillespie counties.
From North Carolina southward through Tropical America.
Also in the Old World Tropics.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu Lake Charles Alhson 62 U.
Jefferson Gretna Ball 363 U Y.
Plaquemines South Pass Tracy  Lloyd 90 U.
Texas.
Bexar U.
Brazoria Columbia Bush 1567 U.
San Antonio Schulz 149.
Burnet Granite Mountain Pennell 1046 A H M U Y.
Cameron Rio Hondo Chandler 7016 U.
Comal New Braunfels Lindheimer 1056 A T U Y.
Galveston.
Galveston Ward U Y.
Gillespie Threadgill Jenny 612 U.
Guadalupe Seguin Groth 182 U.
Harris Hockley Houston Hall 415 U.
Nueces Corpus Christi Heller 1823 A U Y.
Travis Barton Creek Young T.
6.
MACUILLAMIA Raflnesque.
Macuillamia Raf. Autik.
Bot.
44.
1840.
Type species Monniera rotundifolia Michx.
1.
Macuillamia rotundifolia Michx.
Raf.
Monniera rotundifolia Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Am.
2 22.
1803.
Hab.
in regione Illinoensi A.
IMichaux.
Type not verified but description sufficiently distinctive.
Macuillamia rotundifolia Michx.
Raf. 1. c. 44.
1840.
Ranapalus rotundifolius Michx.
Pennell in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
71 242.
1920.
Corolla with tube yellow within the lobes white.
Flowering from June to October and soon ripening fruit.
Aquatic in shallow mudbottomed open ponds through the upland of central Oklahoma and northern Texas south to Travis County also in bottomlands of the Coastal Plain Ranges from Indiana and Tennessee to North Dakota eastern Colorado and central Texas.
Arkansas.
St. Francis Mud Lake McAtee 1851 U.
Oklahoma.
Washington Copan Stevens 2082 U.
Louisiana.
Rapid3s Alexandria Hale L U Y.
Texas.
Dallas Dallas Reverchon Y.
Matagorda Bay City Fisher 166 U.
Randall Paloduro Canyon T.
Tarrant Polytechnic Ruth 579 Y.
Travis Austin Tharp T.
7.
HYDRANTHELroM Humboldt Bonpland.
and Kunth.
Hydranthelium H. B. K. Nov. Gen. et Sp.
7 202.
1825.
Type species H. callitrichoides H. B. K. of Venezuela.
1.
Hydranthelium egense Poepp.
Hydranthelium egense Poepp. Nov. Gen. et Sp.
3 75. t. 287.
1845.
Crescit in paludibus ad Ega in Brasilia boreah Octobre lectum Eduardus Poeppig in 182732.
There can be no doubt of the identity of the Louisiana aquatic with this species of Brazil.
The exceedingly small flowers of this genus and the occurrence of the plants in riversloughs cause them to be little observed and the species may be widely distributed through Tropical America.
H. egense has likely been brought to Louisiana by birdmigrants.
Aquatic in sloughs in central Louisiana.
Probably introduced from South America.
Louisiana.
Rapides Alexandria Hale Y.
8.
STEMODIA Linne.
Stemodia L. Syst.
Nat.
ed.
X.
1118.
1759.
Type species S. maritima L. of Jamaica.
Corolla glabrous within on posterior side hirsute within anteriorly.
Bractlets lanceolatelinear at least half the length of the sepals.
Lower pedicels as long as or longer than the calyx.
Herbage finely hispidpubescent shghtly glandular.
Stems erect 16 dm.
tall.
S. schottii.
Corolla densely pubescent within on posterior side pubescent with shorter hairs anteriorly.
Bractlets subulate less than half length of sepals.
Pedicels all much shorter than the calyx.
Herbage whitelanose not glandular.
Stems extensively repent.
S. tomentosa.
1.
Stemodia schottdi Holz.
Stemodia schottii Holz. in Contrib.
U. S. Nat.
Herb.
1 286. pi.
20.
1893.
Habitat southern Texas along the Rio Grande.
Collected byDr.
Schott at Rio Grande Texas in 1853 and by G. C. Nealley at Comstock Valverde County Texas in 1889 No.
305.
Type seen in United States National Herbarium.
Valverde County Texas.
Ranges from Texas to southern California and south to JaHsco.
Nearly related to the widespread Tropical American S. durantifolia L. Sw. but seeming to differ in its lower habit and longer pedicels.
Needs further field study.
2.
Stemodia tomentosa Mill.
Greenm.
 Thomps.
Erinus fomentosus Mill. Gard.
Diet.
ed.
VIII.
n. 2.
1768.
Sent ... by the late Dr. Houstoun from La Vera Cruz.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Stemodia tomentosa Mill.
Greenm.
 Thomps. in Ann.
Missouri Bot.
Gard.
1409.
1915.
Recorded in Coulter's Botany of Western Texas under the later but more appropriate name Stemodia lanata Ruiz  Pavon.
Sands of the seashore extreme southern Texas.
Ranges southward along the Gulf coast to Vera Cruz Texas.
Cameron Brazos Santiago Nealley 348 U.
9.
ILYSANTHES Raflnesque.
Ilysanthes Raf. Ann.
Nat.
13.
1820.
Type species .
riparia Raf. of the banks of the Ohio.
Pedicels relatively stout at least in fruit shorter than the bracts.
Leaves 13 cm.
long usually obviously narrowed at base.
Sepals usually finely pubescent usually about equaling the capsule.
.
dubia.
Pedicels filiform longer than the bracts.
Leaves .51.5 cm.
long rounded at base or at least broadest much below the middle.
Sepals glabrous or nearly so shorter than the capsule.
.
inaequalis.
1.
Hysanthes dubia L. Barnhart.
Groioo dubia L. Sp.
PI.
17.
1753.
Habitat in Virgianiae aquosis .
.
.
Gron.
virg 129.
Type Clayton 164 identified by Dr. B. L. Robinson in Rhodora 10 67 1907 as the species here considered.
Ilysanthes dubia L. Barnhart in Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 26 376.
1899.
Corolla pale lavender deeper in color near margin of lobes and within on the anterolateral ridges with short yellow hairs.
Flowering from May to September and soon ripening fruit.
Swamp and stream margins especially where shaded loam soil probably most prevalent in the upland of Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma entering the Coastal Plain of Louisiana and northeastern Texas especially in bottomlands.
Ranges from New Brunswick and Ontario to Wisconsin Kansas Florida and Texas also in the West Indies and South America.
Arkansas.
Poinsett Marked Tree Bush 141 U Y.
Oklahoma.
Ottawa Miami Stevens 2313 U.
Louisiana.
Morehouse Mer Rouge Bush 143 Y.
Rapides Alexandria Ball 473 U Y.
West Carroll  Moseley U.
Texas.
Bowie Texarkana Heller 4176 p. p. Y.
2.
Hysanthes inaequalis Walt.
Pennell.
Gratiola inaequalis Walt. Fl.
Carol.
61.
1788.
Type not verified but is doubtless from lower South Carolina where the plant here considered is frequent.
Gratiola brevifolia Raf. Atl.
Journ.
1 176.
1833. 
Texas or Arkansas in my herbarium. '
' Type not known to exist.
The small incurved purplish corolla would indicate this genus and the short ovate leaves with pedicels longer than these this species.
Evidently but a scrap of a plant or the plant would not have been described as simple.
Hysanthes inaequalis Walt.
Pennell in Torreya 19 149.
1919.
Corolla as in I. dubia.
Flowering from April to September and soon ripening fruit.
Swamps and pondmargins in loam or more usually sandy soil frequently in open situations about pineland pools through the Coastal Plain of Arkansas Louisiana and eastern Texas inland in eastern Oklahoma and central Texas to the Burnet Metamorphic Region and even to Tom Green County.
Ranges from Massachusetts to Florida and Texas inland westward to Missouri and Colorado also in the Pacific Coast states Mexico West Indies Central and South America.
Intergrades with Hysanthes dubia.
Arkansas.
Benton  Plank Y.
Hempstead Fulton Bush 1036 U.
Jefferson  Eggert Y.
Oklahoma.
Payne Perkins Waugh 26 U Stillwater.
Washington Capon Stevens 21153 U.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu Lake Charles Plank 41 U.
Texas.
Austin Kenney PenneJl 10310 A T Y Sealy Pennell 10296 H U Y  Wallis Pennsll 10265 M Y.
Bowie Texarkana Heller 4176 p. p. U.
Burnet Fairland Pennell 10476 C L Y.
Harris Hockley Houston Hall 416 U Y.
Lee Giddings Plank Y.
Madison  Dixon Y.
Tarrant Handley Ruth 503 U.
Tom Green  Tweedy Y.
10.
GLOBIFERA J. F. Gmelin.
GloUfera J. F.
Gmel. Syst.
232.
1791.
Type species Anonymos umbrosa Walt.
1.
Globifera umbrosa Walt.
J. F. Gmel.
Anonymos umbrosa Walt. Fl.
Carol.
63.
1788.
Type probably from lower South Carolina identified by Dr. S. F. Blake in Rhodora 17 131.
1915 as the species here consdered.
Globifera umbrosa Walt.
J. F. Gmel.
1. c. 32.
1791.
Corolla uniformly dullwhite.
Flowering from Maj'' to October and soon ripening truit.
Wet loam or in shallow water in woodland especially in riverbottoms through the Coastal Plain of Louisiana and southeastern Texas.
Ranges from North Carolina to Florida and eastern Texas also in eastern Mexico and the West Indies.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu Perkins Pennell 10217 A C H K L M T U Y.
Rapides Alexandria Ball 466 U Y.
Texas.
Harris Sheldon Reverchon 3936 U.
Walker Huntsville Dixon 368 Y.
11.
LEUCOSPORA Xuttall Leucospora Nutt. in Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
7 87.
1834.
Typg species Capraria multifida Michx.
1.
Leucospora multifida Michx.
Nutt.
Capraria multifida Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Am.
222. pi.
35.
1805.
Hab.
inripis arenosis fluminum amniculorumque in Tenassee et Illinoensi regione.''
Type not verified but description and plate certainly of species here considered.
Leucospora multifida Michx.
Nutt. 1. c. 87.
1834.
Corolla palelavender deeper on lobes and lined with deeper lavender tube within at base greenishyellow then yellow on the anterior side and toward mouth with a purplish ring white at base of the lavender anterior lobes.
Flowering from May to Nov  ember and soon ripening fruit.
Sandy or loam banks of brooks or rivers in open meadows or along shores through th3 upland of Arkansas and Oklahoma south to central Texas entering the Coastal Plain along river banks and reaching nearly to the sea.
Ranges from southwestern Ontario to Kansas south to Alabama and Texas.
Arkansas.
Benton  Plank Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Hasse Y.
Sebastian Fort Smith Bigelow U.
Oklahoma.
Comanche Cache Stevens 1320 U.
Kay Tonka wa Stevens 1876 U.
Paj'ne Stillwater Waiigh U.
Woods Waynoka Stevens 1769 U.
Louisiana.
Rapides Alexandria Ball 491 U Y.
Texas.
Bexar Comanche Spring Lindheimer 1048 A T U Y.
Bowie Texarkana Heller 4255 A U Y.
Comal New Braunfels Lindheimer 1049 A T U Y.
Dallas Dallas Reverchon Y.
Gillespie Fredericksburg Jermy 680 U.
Hays San Marcos Stanfield Y.
Kerr Kerrville Heller 1926 A U Y .
Matagorda  Bay City Fisher 158 U .
Tarrant  Fort Worth Ruth 102 U Y.
Travis Shoal Creek Young T.
12.
MIMULUS Linne.
Mimulus L. Sp.
PI.
634.
1753.
Type species M. ringens L. Corolla yellow.
Calyx strongly oblique its posterior lobe longest the lateral usually blunt.
Capsule dehiscent laterally apex persistent and valves permanently attached to septum.
Seeds ellipsoidorbicular.
Leaf blades broadovate palmately veined.
Stems repentascending.
.
Siinioliis.
1.
M. glabratus.
Corolla lavenderviolet.
Calyxlobes equal all acuminate.
Capsule dehiscent laterally from very apex and valves splitting from septum.
Seeds oblong.
Leaf blades lanceolate to ovate pinnately veined.
Stems erect.
.
Eumimulus.
Leaf blades ovate petioled.
Angles of stem slightly winged.
Pedicels stout in fruit 510 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes setaceoustipped 12 mm.
long.
Corolla 35 mm.
long.
Seeds paleyellow.
2.
M. alatus.
Leafblades lanceolate clasping.
Angles of stem not winged.
Pedicels slender in fruit 3060 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes lanceolate 35 mm.
long.
Corolla 30 mm.
long.
Seeds brownish.
3.
M. ringens.
1.
Mimulus glabratus H. B. K. Mimulus glabratus H.B.K. Nov. Gen. et.
Sp.
2 370.
1817. 
Crescit prope Moran Mexicanorum alt.
1330 hex.
Type not verified but description evidently of plant here considered.
Mimulus Jamesii texensis A.
Gray Syn FI.
N. Am.
2.
1  277.
1878.
Texas Wright Lindheimer etc.
Probably in drier soils.
Probable isotype seen in Herbarium of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Very variable in size in all its parts the larger form being M. jamesii texensis A.
Gray or M. inamoenus Greene from TraitsPecos Texas.
Corolla lemonyellow within throat on anterior side golden and spotted with many redbrown spots.
Flowering from April to August and soon ripening fruit.
About springheads and ponds and along streams plains of central and western Oklahoma south to the hills of central Texas Burnet region and Edwards Plateau.
Wide ranging through America from North Dakota and Colorado south to Bolivia.
Oklahoma.
Harper Doby Springs Stevens 318 U.
Love Thackerville Stevans 63 U.
Major Cleo Stavens 782 U.
Woods Alva Stevens 3010 U.
Texas.
Burnet Granite Mountain Fennell 10459 C H Y.
Comal New Braunfels Lindheimer 1057 A T Y.
Gillespie CrabApple Jermy 164 U.
San Saba San Saba Reverchon 1341 U Y.
Travis Austin Pennell 10444 A L M U Y Bee Creek Mt.
Bonnell.
2.
Mimulus alatus Ait.
.
Mimulus alatus Ait. Hort.
Kew.
2 361.
1789.
Nat.
of North America.
Introd.
1783 by Mr. William Malcolm.
Type not verified but description sufficiently distinctive.
Corolla pinkishlavender within throat essentially as in M. ringens but the spots are .smaller and the color fainter.
Flowering from July to August and probably ripening fruit in September and Octobar.
Wet woods and shaded river bottoms loam soil hills of eastern Oklahoma perhaps near the Red River in Louisiana.
Ranges from Connecticut to Ontario and Kansas south to Florida Mississippi and Oklahoma.
Oklahoma.
Osage Pawhuska Stevens 20033 U.
Pittsburg near Gain's Creek Bigelow Y.
Louisiana.

On Red River Hale L.
3.
Mimulus ringens L. Mimulus ringens L. Sp.
PI.
634.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada .
.
.
Hort.
ups.
176 t.
2.
In Hortus Upsalensis 176 pi.
1.
1748.
Linne described and figured our plant.
Mimulus pteropus Raf. Fl.
Ludov.
44.
1817.
M. alatus Rob.
pi.
396.
This reference is to C. C. Robin Voy.
Louisiane 3 396 1807 in which is given a fuller description.
The leaves sessile and semiamplexicaul are distinctive.
Probably from the present state of Louisiana.
I know of no other record than Robin's of the occurrence of this species in the West Gulf States.
But from its wide general range.
Nova Scotia to Minnesota south to Florida and Kansas it should be expected in Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma.
13.
VERBASCUM Linne.
Verbascum L. Sp.
PI.
177.
1753.
Type species V. thapstis L. of Europe.
1.
Verbascum thapsus L. Old fields roadsides and thickets.
Seen from Louisiana and eastern Texas probably frequent throughout our area.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
14.
LEUCOPHYLLUM Humboldt and Bonpland.
Leucophyllum H.  B. PI.
Aequin.
2 95.
1809.
Type species L. ambiguum H.  B. of Mexico.
1.
Leucophyllum texanum Benth.
Leucophyllutn texanum Benth.
in DC.
Prod.
10 344.
1846. 
Juxta Laredo prov.Texas Berlandier
... v. s. coram a cl.
Hook.
Probable isotype Berlandier 2070 labeled 2070660 collected cerca Laredo Junio 1829 seen in Herb of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Corolla 1820 cm.
long larger than and leaves not semipetioled as are those of the other species L. ambiguum H.  B. of central Mexico and L. minus Gray of TransPecos Texas and Chihuahua.
Also the leaves and branchlets are in amhiguum more densely tomentose with much more widely branching hairs in minus closely stellate pubescent with scarcely stalked hairs.
L. minus is to be looked for in the western Edwards Plateau.
Corolla rosecolored with lavender tinge on anterior side ''from base to mouth having a white ground with orangecolored splotches in four or five lines.
Flowering southward nearly throughout year northward from June to September and soon ripening fruit.
Hills and plains limestone bluffs from Austin Travis and Gillespie counties Texas southward increasing and becoming a characteristic chaparral shrub near the Rio Grande.
Ranges southward through Nuevo Leon and Coahuila.
Texas.
Austin San Fehpe Mexican Boundary Survey Y.
Cameron Rio Hondo Chandler 7023 Y.
Duval San Diego Croft 50 Y.
Gillespie Threadgill Jermy 446 U.
Hidalgo Hidalgo Pringle 1957 A Y Mission.
Nueces Corpus Christie Heller Y.
Travis Austin Pennell 10450 Y Tharp T Y.
Uvalde Sabinal Reverchon 1572 P U Y Uvalde.
Webb Laredo Berlandier 2070 Y.
15.
PENSTEMON Mitchell Schmidel.
Penstemon Schmidel Icon.
PI.
2.
1762.
Type species Chelone pentstemon L. of Virginia.
A. Anthercells divaricate opening throughout.
Leaves membranous or somewhat fleshy the lower petioled in P. amhiguus linear and all the cauline leaves deciduous.
B. Corolla scarlet slightly fleshy glabrous externally and within 3035 mm.
long the tube gradually expanding distally.
Sterile filament glabrous.
Upper leaves widely connate.
Plant glaucous forming winter rosettes the stems strictly annual.
Elmigera.
I. Centranthifolii.
1.
P. murrayanus.
B B. Corolla purple red blue or white membranous the throat usually more abruptly expanding.
Leaves all distinct.
Eupensiemon.
C. Leafblades broadlylinear to ovate at least 2 mm.
wide.
Corollathroat straight or upcurved relatively inflated.
Sterile filament bearded.
Plants forming winter rosettes the stems strictly annual.
D. Corollathroat inflatedrounded anteriorly within glandularpuberulent or glabrous.
Seeds 23 mm.
long.
E. Corolla glabrous externally and internally.
Anthercells oblong.
Sterile filament enlarged distally.
Leaves entire relatively thick somewhat fleshy.
Plants glaucous.
II.
Coerulei.
Corolla 4045 mm.
long the tube much inflated the lobes slightly spreading.
Sterile filament closely short bearded near the apex.
Capsule 2025 mm.
long.
Bracts obtuse to acute.
2.
P. grcmdiflorus.
Corolla 1520 mm.
long lined with deeper color the tube little inflated the lobes strongly spreading.
Sterile filament relatively densely bearded distally.
Capsule 1016 mm.
long.
Bracts acuminate.
Corolla palelavender its lobes 34 mm.
long.
Sterile filament slightly widening and moderately bearded distally with dullyellowish hairs.
Capsule 1416 mm.
long.
Bracts broad mostly surrounding the fruits becoming conspicuously reticulate.
Foliage dullglaucous.
3.
P. buckleyi.
Corolla blue its lobes 45 mm.
long.
Bracts not becoming reticulate.
Foliage paleglaucous.
Sepals 67 mm.
long more attenuate.
Sterile filament slightly enlarging and moderately bearded distally with short orange yellow hairs.
Capsule 1315 mm.
long.
Bracts except the uppermost longer than the pedicels.
Leafblades linear to lanceolate acuminate longer than the internodes.
4.
P. angustifolius.
Sepals 56 mm.
long acuminate.
Sterile filament more enlarged and usually more densely bearded the beard of goldenyellow hairs.
Capsule 1012 mm.
long.
Bracts shorter than the pedicels often only rudimentary.
Leafblades ovate obtuse to acutish mostly shorter than the inter nodes.
5.
P. fendleri.
EE.
Corolla glandular puberulent externally and internally.
Anthercells as wide as long.
Sterile filament slender not or but slightly enlarged distally.
Leaves usually serrate thinner firm membranous.
Plants not glaucous.
III.
Albtdi.
Corolla 152025 mm.
long white or violettinged its posterior lobes united less than half their length.
Anthers dark violetgray.
Capsule 1015 mm.
long.
Stem leaves broadly linear to lanceolate entire or serrate.
Leaves permanently more or less canescent lanceolate those of the basal tufts narrowly ovate.
Capsule ellipsoidovate to ovate in outhne 57 mm.
wide.
6.
P. alhidus.
Leaves glabrous except for minute line along midrib above broadly hnear those of the basal tufts broadly or spatulatelinear.
Capsule globoseovate in outline 78 mm.
wide.
7.
P. guadalupensis.
Corolla 2550 mm.
long violetpurple to white its posterior lobes united more than half their length.
Anthers gray.
Capsule 1520 mm.
long.
Stemleaves lanceolate to ovate mostly serrate.
Corolla 2540 mm.
long its throat gradually expanding from the tube moderately inflated and not narrowing to orifice.
Sepals acuminate.
8.
P. triflorus.
Corolla 4050 mm.
long its throat abruptly expand  ing from the tube strongly inflated and narrowing to orifice.
Sepals acutish to slightly acuminate.
Corolla palepurple more widely inflated usually obscurely glandular within.
Foliage palegreen.
9.
P. cobaea.
Corolla deeppurple less widely inflated more evidently glandular within.
Foliage deeper green.
9a.
P. cobaea purpureus.
DD.
Corollathroat more or less flattened tworidged within anteriorly scarcely so in P. tubiflonis.
Seeds .81 mm.
long.
E. Corolla white not lined glandular puberulent within on all sides the throat slightly inflated and scarcely or not two ridged within the lobes widely spreading.
Stem and leaves glabrous the latter entire or very nearly so.
IV.
Tubiflori.
10.
P. tubiflorus.
EE.
Corolla white or pink usually with lines of deeper color somewhat pubescent with glandless hairs within over bases of anterior lobes the throat inflated and tworidged within anteriorly.
Leaves more or less serrate.
V. Graciles.
Corolla with throat much inflated and only slightly two ridged within anterior.y.
Sepals acuminate more than one half length of capsule.
Sterile filament moderately bearded.
Anthers barbate.
Corolla 2535 mm.
long more strongly inflated white or slightly tinged or lined with purple.
Stem glabrous or nearly so semishining.
11.
P. digitalis.
Anthers glabrous.
Corolla smaller moderately inflated more or less violetpurple.
Stem finely pubescent to glabrous relatively dull.
Corolla 2025 mm.
long usually light violetpurple.
Inflorescence narrower than long in fruit 26 cm.
wide its cymebranches of but two or three nodes.
Stemleaves mostly oblonglanceolate relatively less expanded at base less serrate.
12.
P. pentstemon.
Corolla 1520 mm.
longj violetpink paler within.
Inflorescence in fruit usually 612 cm.
wide its cymebranches of repeated nodes.
Stemleaves usually much smaller often somewhat expanded at base more sharply serrate.
13.
P. tenuis.
Corolla with throat narrow strongly tworidged within anteriorly.
Sepals acute or triangularacuminate less than or nearly one half length of mature capsule.
Corolla 1517 mm.
long white its throat about as long as the tube the orifice not closed by the anterior lip.
Sterile filament moderately bearded.
Leaves below inflorescence relatively well developed so stem conspicuously leafy.
Free portions of posterior lobes of corolla upcurved.
Inflorescence 47 cm.
wide.
Stems puberulent or pubescent.
Basal leaves 710 cm.
long obtuse to acute crenate serrate the stemleaves obtusish to acuminate all puberulent.
Plants forming small clumps of few stems.
Stem grayishpuberulent.
14.
P. arkansanus.
Stem pubescent.
Stemleaves broader nearly ovate.
14a.
P. arkansanus puhescens.
Free portions of posterior lobes of corolla upcurvingreflexed.
Inflorescence 612 cm.
wide.
Stems obscurely puberulent.
Basal leaves 1218 cm.
long acuminate sharply serrate the stemleaves acuminate attenuate all glabrous.
Plants forming large clumps of very many stems.
15.
P. midticaulis.
Corolla 2030 mm.
long pinkishor purplishwhite its throat longer than the tube the orifice somewhatclosed by the anterior lip which upcurves as an arc.
Sterile filament densely bearded.
Leaves just below inflorescence tending to be much reduced so stem less ''leafy.
16.
P. pauciflorus.
CC.
Leafblades filiform less than 1 mm.
wide.
Corolla 1520 mm.
long its throat decurved narrow not inflated.
Sterile filament glabrous.
Plant not forming winter rosettes the bases of the stems perennial.
VL Ambigui.
17.
P. amhigims.
AA.
Anthercells pendulous so anthers tend to be horseshoeshaped opening partially by pro.ximal slits vhich extend over two thirds length of sac.
Leaves coriaceous all sessile and the lower cauline leaves persistent on the perennial bases of the stems.
Corolla deepcarmine its posterior lobes projecting the anterior recurved.
Saccanthera.
VIL Baccharifolii.
18.
P. baccharifolius.
1.
Penstemon murrayanus Hook.
Penstemon murrayanus Hook. in Bot.
Mag.
63 pi.
3472.
1836.
A native of San Felipe in Texas discovered by Mr. Drummond in 1S34.
GroAvn in the Glasgow Botanic Garden.
Drummond Coll.
II 292 from which collection the seeds for culture were likely obtained seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Sand open woods or prairies through the shortleaf pineland of eastern Texas westward locally in the crosstimbers oakwoods and coast prairie from southwestern Arkansas to San Augustine Refugio and Milam counties Texas.
Flowering from late April to midJune.
Arkansas.
  Fort Towson Leavenworth A Y.
Texas.
Ellis Ennis Hogan U.
Gregg Gladewater Reverchon 2542 M U.
Houston Grapeland Tharp  T Y.
Milam Milano E. J. Palmer 11661 M.
Refugio Refugio E. J. Palmer 9119 M.
San Augustine San Augustine E. J. Palmer 9512 M.
Smith Swan Reverchon 3221 M U Y.
Waller Hempstead Hall 409 U Y.
.
2.
Penstemon grandiflorus Nutt.
Penstemon grandiflorus Nutt.
in Eraser's Cat.
1813.
It was first met with near the confluence of the River Platte with the Missouri from whence it continues to the Andes Nuttall.
Probable isotype seen in Herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Sandy prairies and open woodland western Oklahoma south to central Texas Lower Sonoran Zone at altitudes of 1500 to 2000 feet.
Ranges through the Plains from Wisconsin and North Dakota to Wyoming and Texas.
Flowering in late April and May.
Oklahoma.
Probably on False Washita between Fort Cobb and Fort Arbuckle E. Palmer 226 U Y.
Texas.
Callahan Baird sandy woods west of B Reverchon 1342 M.
Gillespie Sandy Creek Jermy 280 M.
3.
Penstemon buckleyi Pennell sp.
nov. Penstemon amplexicaulis Buckley in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1861 461.
1862.
About 60 miles N. E. of Camp Colorado Texas S. B. Buckley June 1861.
Camp Colorado as I am informed by Mr. B. C. Tharp of the University of Texas was in Coleman County about fifteen miles northwest of the present town of Coleman.
About 60 miles northeast of this point would reach Sandy Creek in Stephens County and it was doubtless in a sandregion that Buckley found his plant.
His description must be modified to denote a plant with sterile filament moderately bearded not glabro and with anthers glabrous not pilosolanatis.
Type seen in the Herb of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and these discrepancies verified and corrected.
Not P. amplexicaulis Moench Meth.
442.
1794.
Corolla palelavender with lavenderviolet lines within on anterior side.
Flowering in May and early June.
Dry sandy soil sandhills of western Oklahoma and northwestern Texas Lower Sonoran Zone at altitudes of 1700 to 2400 feet.
Ranges from southwestern Kansas to Taylor and Ward counties Texas.
Oklahoma.
Beckham Sayre Pennell 10553 M Y 10560 A C H J K L M O P S T U Y 10565 U Y.
Woodward Woodward Eggert M.
Texas.
Hemphill Canadian Eggert M E. J. Palmer 14121 M.

Stephens  Buckley A.
Taylor Abilene Eggert M.
Ward Monahans Clawson 13907 U.
Wheeler observed by Pennell.
4.
Penstemon angustifolius Nutt.
Penstemon angustifoluis Nutt.
in Eraser's Cat.
1813 nomen nudum Pursh Fl.
Am.
Sept. 738.
1814.
In upper Louisana Bradbury.
... v.s.
in herb.
Bradbury.
According to Bradbury Travels 318 this was collected near the Mintaree village in what is now North Dakota.
Isotype collected by Bradbury in Louisiana seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences.
Penstemon coeruleus Nutt. Gen. PI.
252.
1818.
Hab.
on the plains of the Missouri near Fort Mandan and the Indian towns North Dakota.
Our species would be P. angusiifolius caudatus Heller Rydb. but that seems to be too inconstantly distinguishable to be considered as more than a form.
 Corolla coeruleanblue with violetpink lines within on anterior side' Flowering in May.
Sandy prairies extreme northwestern ''Panhandle region of Oklahoma Upper Sonoran Zone at altitudes above 3000 feet.
Ranges through the High Plains from North Dakota and eastern Wyoming to northwestern Oklahoma and northern New Mexico.
Oklahoma.
Beaver Knowles Stevens 323 M U.
Cimmaron Doby Stevens 508 M U.
5.
Penstemon fendleri Torr.
 Gray.
FenstemoH fendleri T. G. in Pacific RaU.
Rep. 2.
4 168. pi.
5.
1855.
On ' 'the Pecos and Llano Estacado Texas Dr. W. L. Diffenderfer on Pope's Expedition.
Type not seen but description and illustration distinctive.
Corolla blue pinkish on tube externally with sharpl defined violetpink lines internally on both posterior and anterior lobes.
Flowering in April and May.
Sandy or gravelly loam frequently over limestone on plains or bluffs most common on the Staked Plains of northwestern Texas entering extreme western Oklahoma and crossing the escarpment southward to Menard and Tom Green Counties Texas chiefly Upper Sonoran Zone at altitudes above 1600 feet.
Also in eastern New Mexico v Oklahoma.
Beaver  Stevens 352 M U.
Texas.
Fisher Grady Shepherd U.
Garza Post Pennell 10533 M T Y.
Hale Hale Center T.
Hall Estelline Reverchon M.
Martin Stanton Eggert M.
Menard Menard E. J. Palmer 11881 M.
Mitchell Colorado E. J. Palmer 13796 M.
Nolan Sweetwater E. J. Palmer 13736 M.
Potter Ady Pennell 10547 A M T U Y.
Randall Canyon Pennell 10540 Y 10540 C H O P U Y.
Runntls Ballinger Pennell 10509 T Y.
Swisher Tulia Pennell 10538 A C H J J L M O S T U Y.
Tom Green San Angelo Pennell 10486 A C H K M T U Y.
g. Penstemon albidus Nutt.
Penstemon albidus Nutt. Gen. PI.
N. Am.
2 53.
1818.
Hab.
On the plains of the Missouri common from the confluence of the River Platte to the Mountains.
Type seen in Herb.
Academy of.
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
6 See discussion in Contrib.
U. S. Nat.
Herb.
20 362.
1920.
Corolla violetwhite with many fine violet lines within throat on anterior side.
Flowering from early May to early June.
Sandy or gravelly loam frequently calcareous on bluffs low hills or prairies western Oklahoma and northwestern Texas chiefly Upper Sonoran Zone at altitudes above 1800 feet.
Ranges through the High Plains from Manitoba and Montana to northwestern Texas.
Oklahoma.
Beaver Stevens 353 M U.
Beckham observed by Pennell.
Harper Buffalo Stevens 304 M U.
Woodward Woodward Eggert M.
Texas.
Armstrong Gamble's Ranch E. J. Palmer 13906 M.
Garza Post Pennell 10530 A C H J K L M S T U Y.
Potter Ady Pennell 10549 A 0 T Y Amarillo.
Randall Canyon Pennell 10545 C H M P T U Y.
7.
Penstemon guadalupensis Heller.
Penstemon juadalupcnsis Heller in Contrib.
Herb.
Franklin  Marshall Coll.
192. pi.
7.
1895.
Very plentiful in dry stony ground along the Guadalupe and Town Creek near Kerrville Texas altitude 16001650 feet April 19 1894 A.
A. Heller 1609.
Isotype seen in herbarium of Academy of Natural Sciences etc.
Corolla white or sometimes faintly tinged with purple.
Flowering in April and May.
Sandy gravelly or rocky open loam or clay probably calcareous Edwards Plateau Concho and Lampasas counties Lower Sonoran Zone at altitudes from 1300 to 2200 feet.
From Howard and Comanche to Kerr Counties central Texas.
Texas.
Brown  Reverchon 698 M U.
Comanche Comanche Eggert M.
Gillespie Fredericksburg Bray 291 T U Pedernales.
Howard Big Spring Eggert.
M.
Kerr Kerrville Heller 1609 A M U Y.
Nolan Sweetwater E. J. Palmer 13735 M.
8.
Penstemon triflorus Heller.
Penstemon triflorus Heller in Contrib.
Herb.
Franklin and Marshall Coll.
1 92. pi.
8.
1895.
Found only along the smnmit of one hill northeast of Kerrville Texas altitude 2000 feet .
.
.
April 26 1894 A.
A. Heller 1654.
Isotypes seen in the herbaria of the Academy of Natural Scigucgs Gtc Penstemon' helleri Small in Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 25 471.
1898.
These specimens Heller 16i0 form the type .
.
.
The original specimens are from Kerrville Kerry County Texas collected in April and June 1894.
Type collected April 19 1894 seen in the Herbarium of Columbia University at ihe New York Botanical Garden.
Plants very variable apparently tending to two types which are predominantly plants of open or of shade.
Both however are frequently intermixed.
One has corolla white or palepink with relatively wider throat the pedicels and peduncles shorter so that the thyrsus is more congested and the leaves broader this the prevalent form is the plant called by Heller P. cobaea and by Small P. helleri.
The other has corolla darker frequently bright pinkred with narrower throat more glandular within the peduncles and often fewer pedicels longer so that the thyrsus is more lax and the leaves frequently narrower this would be typical P. triflorus.
In both the corolla has conspicuous deeper pink lines especially on the anterior side.
However fieldstudy convinces me that no real distinction of these trends can be made.
All are well shown in my series from Kerrville Texas.
Flowering from March to May.
Thin calcareous loam gravelly or rocky places common on the hills of the Edwards Plateau less frequent in the Lampasas and Concho countries lower Sonoran Zone at altitudes from 500 to 2000 feet.
From Lampasas and Tom Green to Bexar and Valverde Counties central Texas.
Texas.
Bexar Beckmann Pennell 10407 T Y Camp Stanley Jnc Pennell 10409 Y.
Burnet Marble Falls Bray 109 Y.
Cooleman Talpa Pennell 10515 Y.
Comal Bracken Groth 23 U.
Crockett Ozona to Devils River Hanson 516' U Y.
Gillespie HalfMoon Mt. Jermy 830 M.
Kendall Boerne Pennell 10415 O Y.
Kerr Kerrville Heller 1610 A M U Y 1654 A U Y Pennell 10377 A H M U Y 10380 C J L Y 10382 Y 10397 Y 10398 Y 10399 Y 10400 K Y 10402 T Y Lacey's Ranch Turtle Creek.
Menard Menard E. J. Palmer 1 1865 M .
Real  Leakey Lea U Tom Green  San Angelo Pennell 10500 A C H M T U Y.
Travis Glen Rose Hill U.
Uvalde Con Can Sabinal E. J. Palmer 10221 Y.
9.
Penstemon cobaea Nutt.
Penstemon cobaea Nutt. in Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
II.
5 182.
1837.
Hab.
In the sterile and denudated portions of the prairies of Red River Arkansas Territory in calcareous soil.
Type seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Corolla white or pale violetpurple irregularljlined with violet probably frequently somewhat darker as the type is described as bluishpurple.
Flowering in April and May.
 Corolla also with short hairs on the anterior side.
Black or red loam usually calcareous central and western prairies of Oklahoma on Abilene and Lampasas plains Grand and especially the Black Prairie south to Bexar County central Texas also in postoak woods eastward in Waller County Austroriparian and Lower Sonoran Zones at altitudes of 300 to 2000 feet.
Central Plains of Oklahoma and Texas south to Bexar County.
Ranges north to Kansas and including the following variety into the Ozark Mountains of southern Missouri and Arkansas.
Oklahoma.
Cleveland Norman Emig 485 M.
Custer Weatherford Pennell 10572 A C H J K L M O P S T U Y.
Woods Cora Stevens 539 M U. '
Texas.
Bexar San Antonio Thurber Y.
Comal New Braunfels Pilsbry A.
Comanche Comanche Eggert M.
Dallas Dallas Pennell 5402 P Y.
Grayson Denison Letterman M Sherman.
Hays San Marcos Stanfield Y.
Hood Granbury Eggert M.
Kaufman Terrell Tyler U.
McLennan Waco Griffith Y.
Medina Hondo Pilsbry A.
San Augustine  San Augustine Leavenworth A .
Shackelford   Holstein.
Tarrant Fort Worth Ruth 101 M U Y.
Taylor Buffalo Gap Havard U.
Travis Austin Pennell 10448 U Y.
Waller Hempstead Hall 408 M U Y.
Wichita Burkburnett Tharp 522 Y.
9a.
Penstemon cobaea purpureus Pennell var.
nov. Corolla 3843 mm.
long less inflated violetpurple and with dark violet lines evidently glandularpubescent within.
Plant 1012 dm.
tall.
Leaves usually longer 1015 cm.
long dark green.
Type limestone cliffs Renters Bluff Izard Co. Arkansas collected in flower June 1 1920 F. W. Pennell 10681 in the Herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden.
Here considered as a geographic variety of the prairie species Penstemon cobaea but further fieldstudy is needed to decide their mutual status.
A strikingly distinct plant when contrasted alive with the palerflowered species but specimens of the latter show great range of variation in most features.
Flowering in May and June.
Rocky calcareous barrens arid cliffs Ozark Mountains of northern Arkansas and southern Missouri.
Arkansas.
Izard Renters Bluff Pennell 10681 A C H K L M 0 T U Y.
Marion Cotter E. J. Palmer 14320 M.
10.
Penstemon tubiflorus Nutt.
Penstemon tubiflorus Nutt. in Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
II.
5 181.
1837.
Hab.
In wettish prairies from Forth Smith to Red River Arkansas Territory.
T.
Nuttall.
Type seen in Herb of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Description of corolla as villose within is difficult to account for otherwise our plant is certainly described.
Corolla white throughout.
Flowering in late May and early June.
Sandy or light loam deciduous or mixed woodland in the OzarkOuachita Mountains and hills of Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma and on prairies in eastern Oklahoma.
The plants seen from the Ozarks of Arkansas have habitually a laxer thyrsus and slightly smaller corollas than have those from the prairies and woods of Oklahoma.
Also in Ozarks of southern Missouri.
Arkansas.
Madison Pettigrew Howell 671 U.
Pope Russellville Pennell 10628 H M Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Pennell 10643 A C H J K L M O P S T U Y.
Sebastian Fort Smith Bigelow U Y.
Washington Fayetteville Harvey M.
Oklahoma.
Creek Sapulpa Bush 1199 M Y.
McCurtain Shawneetown Houghton 3889 Y.
Pittsburg McAlester Pennell 10595 A C H J K M O S T U Y.
Wagoner Wagoner Pennell 10610 A M U Y.
Texas.
Bowie Texarkana Heller 4169 Y.
11.
Penstemon digitalis Nutt.
Penstemon digitalis Nutt.
 Sims in Bot.
Mag.
52 pi.
2587.
Aug. 1 1825. 
Communicated by Robert Barclay .
... to whom the seeds were sent by Professor Nuttall in March 1824 under the name which we have adopted.
Native of the Arkansas territory.
Careful description and illustration given.
Later independently redescribed by Nuttall himself in TransAm.
PhU.
Soc.
II.
5 181.
1837.
Chelone digitalis Nutt.
Sweet Brit.
Fl.
Gard.
pi.
120.
Aug. 1 1825.
Perhstemon Digitalis Nutt.
Found by Mr. Nuttall in the Arkansas territory of North America.
The plant from which our drawing was taken was received last autumn from New York by Mr. Anderson of the Apothecaries' Garden at Chelsea to whom it was sent by Mr.
Hogg.
A careful description and illustration certainly of the plant now considered the description being apparently more accurate than Nuttall's own or that of Sims in mentioning the pubescence of the anthers.
Corolla westward white or externally slightly purplish eastward the corolla tends to be smaller more purplishtinged and with fine violet lines within throat.
Flowering from midApril to early June depending upon latitude.
Loam or sandy soil open woodlands meadows and prairies through the OzarkOuachita highland of Arkansas and southeastern Oklahoma thence entering surrounding lowland cleared Mississippi bottomland of northeastern Arkansas fields and prairies of northeastern Texas etc.
Native also in southern Missouri and widely introduced northeastward to the Atlantic states.
Arkansas.
Clay Corning Eggert M Y.
Izard Guion Pennell 10687 Y.
Jefferson Kearney Pennell 10657 C Y.
Nevada Prescott Holhster U.
Pope Russellville Pennell 10 633 H M U Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Pennell 10650 A L Y.
Washington Fayetteville F. L. Harvey M.
Oklahoma.
McCurtain Idabel Stevens 3623 U.
Pittsburg McAlester Pennell 10589 K O S T U Y.
Louisiana.
Caddo Shreveport Cocks L.
Natchitoches Natchitoches E. J. Palmer 7503M.
Texas.
Bowie Texarkana Heller 4169 p. p. A U.
Dallas Dallas Reverchon 3220 Y.
Tom Green San Angelo Reverchon 3933 M.
Van Zandt Grand Sahne Reverchon 3934 M.
12.
Penstemon pentstemon L. MacM.
Chelone pentstemon L. Sp.
PI.
612.
17.53.
Habitat in Virginia.
Type not verified but must have been the species now considered because in 1753 this was certainly tlie only essentially glabrous species of the Atlantic seaboard.
Penstemon laevigatas Ait. Hort.
Kew.
2 361.
1789.
Chelone Pentstemon J. F. Miller ic.
4 .
.
.
Nat.
of North America.
Cult.
1776 by John Fothergill M. D. The description and also the plate of Miller clearly denote the species now considered.
Bartramia pulchella Salisb. Prod.
Stirp.
Chapel Allerton 99.
1796.
New name for Penstemon laevigatas Ait.
Type of genus Bartramia Salisb.
Penstemon pentstemon L. MacM. in Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club.
19 15.
1892.
Corolla externally violetpurplish deepest on tube on throat and lobes palepurplish nearly white on anterior side  within white and within throat on anterior side with more or less evident violet lines.
Sterile filament with yellow hairs.
Flowering in May.
Meadows or more rarely open pinewoods pineland of central Louisiana.
From Virginia to northern Florida and Louisiana inland through the eastern Mississippi Valley to Indiana.
Arkansas.
Hempstead Fulton low woods E. J. Palmer 5418 M.
Louisiana.
Rapides Alexandria dry pinewoods.
Ball 616 M Y.
13.
Penstemon tenuis Small.
Penstemon tenuis Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1061 1337.
1903.
Type La. Hale Apr. in Herb.
C.
U.
Type from fertile soils Louisiana seen in the Herbarium of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Corolla violetpink externally within paler with or without deepviolet lines.
Flowering from early April to early June depending upon latitude.
Heavy loam swales and low woodland mostly in alluvial soil along the bottomlands of the lower Mississippi valley north to northeastern Arkansas and also westward near the Gulf coast to the Brazos River Texas.
Near sealevel in Louisiana Arkansas and Texas  seen from east of the Mississippi River only from Tangipahoa Parish Louisiana.
Arkansas.
Hempstead Fulton E. J. Palmer 10514 M.
Independence Newark Pennell 10699 A C H J K M U Y.
Miller Mandeville Eggert M.
Pulaski Little Rock Hasse Y.
Louisiana.
Acadia Crowley Pennell 10186 A H L S U Y.
Rapides Alexandria Ball 654 M.
Texas.
Brazoria Brazoria Columbia Bush 115 M Y.
Fort Bend Richmond Bray 79 T U.
Harris Houston Pennell 10258 T Y.
Liberty Liberty E. J. Palmer 7727 M 9598 M.
14.
Penstemon arkansanus Pennell sp.
nov.
Stems clustered several from a clump 36 dm.
tall grayishpuberulent over entire surface often purple.
Leaves membranous slightly paler beneath finely puberulent on both surfaces the lowest narrowed to petiolelike bases the longest 710 cm.
long obtuse to acute crenateserrate the upper lanceolate acutish to acuminate somewhat serrate the bracts much reduced.
Thyrsus less than one half the height of the plant longer than wide of 39 fascicles each of two axillary branches which repeatedly branch cymosely the pedicels much shorter than ths primary peduncle.
Sepals in anthesis 23 mm.
long in fruit 45 mm.
long ovate acute to acuminate obscurely scariousmargined glandularpubescent.
Corolla 1517 mm.
long the tube and throat 1112 mm.
long the throat narrow slightly inflated tworidged within distally on anterior side the orifice open the two posterior lobes 22.5 mm.
long united over one half length their free portions upcurvedspreading the three anterior lobss 45 mm.
long united at base the corolla externally finely glandular pubescent internally slightly pubescent over bases of anterior lobes white on anterior side with violet lines.
Anthercells divaricate oblong darkviolet .6.7 mm.
long glabrous opening throughout.
Sterile filament slightly exserted flat not wider distally moderately bearded distally with yellow hairs.
Capsule at least 67 mm.
long ovateacuminate in outline glabrous not seen mature.
Type shale and sandstone woods Pulaski Heights above Little Rock Pulaski County Arkansas collected in flower and young fruit May 31 1920 F. W. Pennell 10640 in Herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden.
This was the plant called Penstemon levigatum by Nuttall in his Flora of Arkansas.
Near Penstemoji paUidus Small a species which has softly pubescent leaves and more acuminate sepals.
Thin rocky or sandy soil shale or sandstone Ozark and Ouachita mountains and hills of Arkansas and southeastern Oklahoma.
Flowering in late April and May.
Arkansas.
Carroll Beaver Eureka Springs Bush 1522 M.
Garland Hot Springs Foreman U.
Pope Russellville Pennell 10629 M Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Pennell 10640 A C H J K L M S T U Y 10651 A C H O P U Y.
Oklahoma.
Leflore Page Stevens 1374 M U.
14a.
Penstemon arkansanus pubescens Pennell n. var.
Stem 47 dm.
tall pubescent with fine glandless hairs and also somewhat hirsute with spreading mostly glandtipped hairs.
Stemleaves 2040 mm.
wide nearly ovate acuminate serrate pubescent beneath on the principal veins.
Inflorescence as in the species.
Type sandstone woodland Penters Bluff Izard County Arkansas collected in late flower and young fruit June 1 1920 F. W. Pennell 10679 in Herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden.
On sandstone and limestone Izard county Arkansas probably through northern Ozarks of northern Arkansas and southern Missouri.
Arkansas.
Izard Guion limestone cliff Pennell 10685 A Y sandstone cliff Pennell 10690 Y Penters Bluff sandstone woodland Pennell 10679 H M U Y.
15.
Penstemon mnltlcaulis Pennell sp.
nov.
Stems many from a clump 47 dm.
tall obscurely puberulent often purplish.
Leaves membranous slightly paler beneath glabrous on both surfaces the lowest narrowed to petiolelike bases the longest 1218 cm.
long acuminate sharply serrate the upper lanceolate mostly attenuate acuminate serrate the bracts much reduced.
Thyrsus less than half the height of the plant little longer than wide of 69 fascicles each of two axillary branches which repeatedly branch cymosely the pedicels much shorter than the long primary and secondary peduncles.
Sepals in anthesis 34 mm.
long in fruit 56 mm.
long ovateacuminate obscurely scarious margined glandularpubescent.
Corolla 1517 mm.
long the tube and throat 1112 mm.
long the throat narrow shghtly inflated tworidged within on anterior side the orifice open the two posterior lobes 22.5 mm.
long united about one half length their free portions upcurvedreflexed the thrae anterior lobes 45 mm.
long united at base the corolla externallj finely glandularpubsscent internally slightly pubescent over bases of anterior lobes white within throat especially median to each lobe with a few violet lines.
Anther cells divaricate oblong intensely violet .5.6 mm.
long glabrous opening throughout.
Sterile filament sUghtly exserted flat not wider distally moderately bearded distally with yellowish hairs.
Capsule at least 6 mm.
long ovateacuminate in outline glabrous not seen mature.
Type sandstone and shale cliffs Ozark Franklin County Arkansas collected in flower May 29 1920 F. W. Pennell 10616 in the Herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden.
Along river cliffs in southern Ozarks of western Arkansas.
Distribution should be studied and constancy of characters of distinction from P. arkansamis noted.
These seem to be wellmarked.
Arkansas.
Franklin Ozark E. J. Palmer 8143 M Pennell 10616 A C H J K L M O P S T U Y.
Also seen from Frisco Springs Northwest Arkansas Wells 49 U.
16.
Pehstemon pauciflorus Buckley.
Penstemoii pauciflorus Buckley in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1861  461.
1862.
Past Post oak woods south of Fort Belknap Texas S. B. Buckley May 186061.
Fort Belknap was in Young County on the Brazos.
The description inapplicablie to any Penstemon and at variance with the plant to which the name is now applied in these points segments linearsubulate corollatube constricted to scarcely a line in width and sterile filament glabrous with cilated apex.
Fortunately Dr. A.
Gray had seen Buckley's material in the two collections to which he sent specimens the herbarium of the Philadelphia Academy and that of Ehas Durand.
In his criticism of Buckley's proposed species in Proc.
Acad.
Sci.
Phila.
1862 165.
1863 he tells us that Buckley confused vvith a genuine Penstemon Phlox pilosa L. and that most of the description applies to the latter
Also that the Penstemon a slender form of P. puhescens has a sterile filament ''heavUy bearded a feature particularly true of the present species.
The specific name should certainly apply to the Penstemon component.
As there appears to be but one species of this genus characteristic of postoak woods in Texas and that one has these features the Penstemon element of Buckley could scarcely fail to have been the plant now considered.
As no Penstemon was supplied to the Academy herbarium the iypQ must be the plant of the Durand Herbarium but either this admixture was cuUed out by Durand from his material which is now in the Herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelpha or else it is included in the portion of his herbarium which went to Paris.
Accordingly it seems best to redescribe the species.
Stems scarcely clustered frequently but one from a root slender 37 dm.
tall minutely pubescent over entire surface green or purplish.
Leaves membranous green slightly paler beneath finely pubescent to nearly glabrous the lowest narrowed to petiolelike bases the longest ovate to oblong 310 cm.
long obtuse crenateserrate the upper lanceolate or oblonglanceolate obtuse or obtusish serrate the bracts much reduced.
Thyrsus about one third the height of the plant longer than wide of 36 fascicles each of two axillary branches which cymosely branch 23 times rarely more the pedicels shorter than the primary peduncle.
Sepals in anthesis 26 mm.
long in fruit 37 mm.
long oblongovate to ovate acute to acuminate slightly or not scarious margined glandularpubescent.
Corolla 2028 mm.
long the tube and throat 1520 mm.
long the throat narrow slightly inflated strongly tworidged within on anterior side the orifice nearly closed by the upcurved base of the anterior lip the two posterior lobes 35 mm.
long united and arched less than or about one half length their free portions spreading the three anterior lobes 58 mm.
long united at base the corolla externally finely glandularpubescent internally slightly pubescent over the base of the anterior lobes whitish or purplishwhite on anterior side with fine violet lines.
Anthercells divaricate oblong violet 8. mm.
long microscopically puberulent opening throughout.
Sterile filament slightly exserted flat not wider distally densely bearded with deepyellow becoming brownishyellow hairs.
Capsule 810 mm.
long ovateacuminate in outline glabrous brown.
Seeds .8.1 mm long sharply and slightly wingangled testa brown lustrous reticulate.
Plants of coastal plain especially in pineland and coast prairie smallerleaved and with stem nearly bare while upland plants are rather leafy.
Also upland plants especially in eastern Oklahoma are relatively more pubescent.
Sandy soil usually open woodland or prairie through the Coastal Plain south of the Arkansas River in Arkansas and west to the Guadalupe River in Texas in longleaf pineland shortleaf pineland coastal prairie and postoak woods inland in sandy or rocky woods or prairies to the Burnet metamorphic country of central Texas and northwestward west of the higher Ouachita Hills to central Oklahoma.
Flowering from early April to early June depending upon latitude.
Arkansas.
Jefferson Jefferson Springs Pennell 10658 A C H M U Y.
Oklahoma.
Atoka Limestone Gap Butler 106 M.
Caddo Hinton Stevens 943 M U.
Creek Sapulpa Bush 881 M Y.
Lincoln Fonts Neaves U.
Logan Guthrie Carleton 147 U.
McCurtain  Idabel Houghton 3629 M Y .
Muskogee  Muskogee Oyster U.
Oklahoma Bethany Pennell 10576 H K O P Y.
Payne Stillwater Waugh 253 U.
Pittsburg McAlester Pennell 10586 A C M Y.
Louisiana.
Acadia Crowley Cocks L.
Caddo Shreveport Cocks 3612 L Y.
Calcasieu DeQuincy Pennell 10228 L T U Y Lake Charles Pennell 10220 Y.
Jeff Davis Jennings Pennell 10206 A C H J K L M S U Y.
Natchitoches Natchitoches E. J. Palmer 7305 M.
Rapides Alexandria Hale U.
Texas.
Austin Bellville Pennell 10301 T Y.
Brazoria Alvin Young 257 T.
Burnet Fairland Pennell 10478 Y.
Dallas Dallas Reverchon 694 M.
Fayette Colony Crawford M.
Guadalupe Kingsbury E. J. Palmer 11643 M.
Hardin Fletcher E. J. Palmer 9549 M.
Harris Harrisburg Pennell 10250 Y Houston.
Hays San Marcos Stanfield Y.
Hood Granbury Eggert M.
Jackson Ganado E. J. Palmer 9241 M.
Liberty Dolen Young T.
Milam Milano E. J. Palmer 11775 M.
Orange Orange Bray 56 U.
Polk Livingston E. J. Palmer 5212 M.
San Augustine San Augustine Crocket U.
Smith Troup Young T.
Tarrant Handley Ruth 462 U.
Travis Austin Pennell 10443 Y.
Victoria Mission Valley Schott Y.
Walker Huntsville Young T.
17.
Penstemon ambiguus Torr.
F'enstemon ambiguus Torr. in Ann.
Lye.
N. Y.
2228.
1828.
Hab.
Near the Rocky Mountains E. P. James in 1820.
Type collected by Edwin James either in eastern Colorado northeastern New Mexico or northwestern Texas seen in Herb of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Leiostemon purpureus Raf. Atl.
Jour.
1  14.5.
18.32.
Based upon Penstemon ambiguus Torr.
Sandy or rocky prairies mostly near streams plains north of Canadian River in extreme northwestern Texas in the Wichita Mountains southwestern Oklahoma and in the western Callahan Divide westcentral Texas doubtless elsewhere in upland Texas Upper Sonoran Zone at altitudes above 2400 feet.
High plains westward to southwestern Utah and Chihuahua.
Flowering from May to August.
Oklahoma.
Comanche Wichita Mts. Marcy Y.
Texas.
Dallam Texline Howell 138 U.
Hartley Channing E. J. Palmer 14157 M.
Howard Big Springs Tracy 7995 M T Y.
Martin Stanton Eggert M.
Ward Monahans Clawson 13909 U.
18.
Penstemon bacchahfolius Hook.
Penstemon baccharifolius Hook. in Bot.
Mag.
78 pi.
4627.
1852.
Reared from Texian seeds gathered by Dr.
Wright.
Specimen collected by C. Wright in 185152 but with exact data lost seen in Herbarium of Columbia University.
This must be either his 439 or 1479 both credited by A.
Gray in Torr. Bot.
Mex.
Bound.
114.
1859 as collected on rocky bluffs at the Big Bend of the San Pedro River Texas.
Evidently the type station.
Limestone ledges bluffs and canyons in Edwards and Uvalde Counties Texas and Rio Grande portion of Lower Sonoran Zone at altitudes of 1000 to 1500 feet.
Ranges westward through TransPecos Texas.
Flowering from April to June.
Texas.
Edwards Barksdale E. J. Palmer 11009 M 12337 M.
Uvalde Montell E. J. Palmer 12323 M.
Valverde Viaduct Pilsbry A.
Penstemon atropurpureus Raf. Atl.
Jour.
1 176.
1833 not P. atropurpureus Sweet G. Don 1830 said to be from Texas or Arkanzas  to be represented by a specimen or specimens in Rafinesque's herbarium and to have been seen living by him is described as with leaves ang.
lane amplexic.
seiTul.
glabr.
acutissim.
and flowers ''small dark purple.
Probably two species are confused but I can identify neither as Texan.
16.
SCROPHULARIA Linne.
Scrophularia L. Sp.
PI.
619.
1753.
Type species S. nodosa L. of Europe.
Sterile filament greenishyellow 1.8 mm.
wide.
Corolla 812 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes acute or acutish.
Capsule pyramidalacuminate 510 mm.
long.
Seeds .81 mm.
long.
Liflorescence narrowly elongated 48 cm.
wide its branches relatively stout.
Leafblades cuneate to truncate at base coarsely serrate to incised.
Petioles stouter evidently wingmargined.
1.
S. occidentalis.
Sterile filament purple brown 1 mm.
wide.
Corolla 68 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes roundedobtuse.
Capsule ovoid acute 47 mm.
long.
Seeds .5.8 mm.
long.
Inflorescence pyramidal 518 cm.
wide its branches slender.
Leafblades narrowed to cordate at base more finely crenate serrate.
Petioles slender scarcely margined.
2.
S. marilandica.
1.
Scrophularia occidentalis Rydb.
Bicknell.
Scrophularia nodosa occidentalis Rydb. in Contrib.
U. S. Nat.
Herb.
3 517.
1896.
Rapid City South Dakota altitude 1000 m. July 25 1892.
P. A. Rydberg No.
914.
Isotype seen in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Scrophularia occidentalis Rydb. Bickn. in Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 23315.
1896.
Corolla externally greenishbrown and shining within green or distally brownish.
Flowering in May or June.
Thickets and along streams widely distributed through the Rocky Mountain plateau eastward passing into S. leporella Bickn.
In our area seen only as collected by Edward Palmer 218 at some point in Oklahoma probably on the False Washita between Fort Cobb and Fort Arbuckle in 1868.
Oklahoma.
  E. Palmer 218 Y.
2.
Scrophularia marilandica L. Scrophularia marilandica L. Sp.
PI.
619.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia.
Based upon a plant grown in the Upsala Garden which from the description in the Hortus Upsalensis 177.
1748 would appear to have been the species here considered.

Sa'ophularia hastata Raf. Fl.
Ludov.
44.
1817.
Based upon a fuller description in Robin Voy.
Louisiane 3 39.5.
1807.
Description of leaves 'soft to touch' appears to describe forma neglecta below but the leaves in this species can scarcely be called hastate.
The carefully described flower however would appear to be of this genus although no mention is made of the rudimentary fifth stamen nor is the corolla ever pubescent within veloutee.
Scrophularia neglecta Rvdb.
 Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1058 1337.
1903.
Type Riley Co. Ivans. Norton no.
779 in Herb.
N. Y.
B. G. Type seen in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
This plant differs from what is considered true S. marilandica only in the presence of pubescence on the lower surface of the leaves a condition found in the northern and predominating in the western part of the range of the species.
Eastward this sporadic and fluctuating state can be only considered as a forma neglecta Rydb.
Pennell comb nov the two should be studied.
Corolla externally greenishbrown duller within purplebrown distally.
Flowering in September and October.
Open woodland in central and northwestern Arkansas and in southern Louisiana certainly more generally distributed in our area.
In our area only forma neglecta has been seen.
A widespread eastern species ranging from Massachusetts to Ontario and Nebbraska south to Georgia and Louisiana.
Arkansas Benton  Plank Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Hasse Y.
Louisiana.
Iberia Avery Id. Cocks L Y.
17.
COLLINSIA Nuttall.
Collinsia Nutt. Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1 190.
1817.
Type species C. verna Nutt. of Ohio.
1 .
Collinsia violacea Nutt.
Collinsia violacea Nutt. in Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
II.
5 179.
1837.
Hab.
On the hiUs and upland woods of the Arkansas and Red rivers abundant.
T.
Nuttall.
Type labeled A.rkansas Nuttall seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia isotype in Herb of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Sandy soil hills of western Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma and southward into shortleaf pineland of eastern Texas to Nacogdoches and Limestone counties Texas.
Also in extreme southwestern Missouri and southeastern Kansas.
Flowering from March to early May and soon ripening fruit.
Arkansas.
Benton   Plank  Y .
Sebastian  Hartford Pilsbry A.
Washington Fayetteville Williamson A.
Oklahoma.
Atoka Limestone Gap Pilsbry A.
Craig Vinita Carleton 33 U.
Creek Sapulpa Bush 918 Y.
Texas.
Kaufman Elmo Reverchon 3935 U.
Limestone  Joor 49 U .
Nacogdoches   Nagadoches Leavenworth A .
Readily distinguished from C. verna Nutt. of the Ohio Valley by the following contrast Corolla blue the nearly white posterior lobes little shorter than the shallo wly notched antero laterals.
Seeds 3 mm.
long.
Leaves lanceolateovate mostly obviously dilated proximally.
Stem and pedicels with lines of pubescence.
C. verna.
Corolla violet the pale posterior lobes about two thirds the length of the deeply notched anterolaterals.
Seeds 1 mm.
long.
Leaves oblonglanceolate not dilated at base.
Stem and pedicels more densely finely pubescent over entire surface.
C. violacea.
18.
MAURANDYA Ortega.
Maurandya Ortega Nov. PI.
Descr.
Decad.
21.
1797.
Type species M. sernperflorens Ortega of Mexico.
1.
Maurandya antirrhinlflora Humb.
 Bonpl.
Maurandya antirrhiniflora H.  B. Willd. Hort.
Berol.
pi.
83.
1807.
Habitat in Mexico.
Description distinctive.
Antirrhinum maurandioides A.
Gray in Proc.
Am.
Acad.
7 376.
1868.
Based upon Maurandya antirrhiniflora G.  B.
Certainly closely akin to M. scandens Cav.
Pers.
M.
semperflorens Ort.
 being nearly alike in habit leaves pedicels sepals capsules and seeds differing only in corolla.
1 M. scandens this is tworidged within on anterior side apparently in the manner of Mimulus while the smaller corolla of M. antirrhiniflora has these ridges developed distally into a palate.
Corolla blue the palate conspicuously raised lightyellow.
Flowering from April to September and soon ripening fruit.
Stony calcareous soil riverbluffs and hills lower Edwards Plateau and through arid southern Texas from Travis and Gillespie to 8 Practically a redescription with renaming of listeria scandens Cav. Icon.
15.
1793 antedated by listeria Medik. 1790.
Nueces and Webb counties lower Sonoran zone.
Ranges from southern Texas and Arizona to southern Mexico.
Texas.
Bexar Comanche Spring San Antonio Pennell 5472 P Y .
Gillespie  Threadgill Jermy 487 U .
Hays  San Marcos Pennell 10428 A Y.
Nueces Corpus Christi Heller 1790 A U Y.
Travis Austin Pennell 10451 Y Barton Springs.
Webb Laredo Letterman 35 Y.
19.
LINARIA Miller.
Linaria Mill. Gard.
Diet.
ed.
IV.
1754.
Type species Antirrhinum linaria L. of Europe.
Corolla excluding spur 412 mm.
long blue posterior lip erect anterior lip broadly spreading but not forming a definite raised palate spur slender.
Capsule 23.5 mm.
long equaling to slightly exceeding the sepals.
Seeds .3.4 mm.
long cylindric prismaticangled not winged.
Stem less leafy the younger stems spreadingprostrate from base.
Leptoplectron.
Surfaces of seeds smooth to slightly tuberculate the angles thin.
Corolla less than 48 mm.
long excluding the spur which is 26 ipm.
long.
1.
L. canadensis.
Surfaces and rounded angles of seed densely tuberculate.
Corolla over 10 mm.
long excluding the spur which is 59 mm.
long.
la.
L. canadensis texana.
Corolla excluding spur 1518 mm.
long yellow posterior lip arched over anterior anterior lip forming a conspicuous protruding orange palate spur stout.
Capsule 10 mm.
long much exceeding the sepals.
Seeds 17 mm.
long flattened and circularly broadlywinged.
Stem densely leafy always erect.
2.
L. linaria.
1.
Linaria canadensis L. Dum.Cours.
Antirrhinum canadenseL. Sp.
PI.
618.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada.
Type probably from southern New Jersey and certainly the species now considered.
For discussion see Torreya 19 151.
1919.
Linaria canadensis Dum.Cours. Bot.
Cult.
2 96.
1802.
Lieu Le Canada la Virginie.
Doubtless based upon Antirrhinum canadense L. Corolla purplishblue the palate paler.
Flowering from March to May and soon ripening fruit.
Open sandy soil usually a weed eastward chiefly in the Coastal Plain less frequent than the following with which it intergrades.
Ranges through the Atlantic Coastal Plain from Massachusetts to Florida and Texas inland probably introduced.
Arkansas.
Pope Russellville Pennell 10636 Y.
Louisiana.
Rapides Alexandria Hale A U Y.
Texas.
Angelina  Reverchon 3931 Y.
Dewitt Cuero Howell 318 Y.
Harris Houston Hall 406 U.
Kaufman Terrell Tyler U.
San Augustine San Augustine Crocket U.
Travis Austin York T.
Victoria Victoria Lewton 62 U.
la.
Linaria canadensis texana Scheele Pennell comb.
aov.
Linaria texana Scheele in Linnaea 21 4761.
1848.
Zwischen Houston and Austin Texas haufig  Romer.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Here distinguished primarily by roughness of seeds which however varies from a few roughenings on the side to densely tuberculate.
The wealth of Texan material at my disposal shows that each character of the contrasts previously outlined in Contrib.
U. S. Nat.
Herb.
20 323.
1920 and Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
71  258.
1920 between this and Linaria canadensis breaks down in numerous instances through the area where the two overlap.
Consequently it seems more rational to consider texana a variety its range and relation to the species roughly paralleling that of  Veronica peregrina xalaperisis H. B. K. Pennell.
For an excellent illustration of Linaria candensis texana see the Botanical Magazine 63 pi.
3473.
1836.
Open sand or sandy loam frequently or usually a weed common through the Coastal Plain chiefly westward occasional and probably introduced inland.
Ranges widely through western North America and into South America.
Arkansas.
Benton  Plank Y.
Columbia Taylor Hunt 10 Y.
Nevada Prescott Bush 555 U.
Oklahoma.
Kingfisher Huntsville Kingfisher Stevens 189 U.
Oklahoma Bethany Pennell 10574 H O U Y.
Payne Stillwater Learn Y.
Wagoner Wagoner Pennell 10614 M Y.
Washita Bessie Stevens 961 U.
Woods Alva Stevens 3042 U.
Louisiana.
Acadia Crowley Pennell 10204 Y.
Catahoula Sicily Id. Peck A.
Rapides Alexandria Ball 416 U Y.
Terrebonne E. C. Wurzlow Y.
Texas.
Austin San Felipe Pennell 10293 K T Y WalHs Pennell 10270 A Y.
Bastrop Smith ville Pilsbry A.
Bexar San Antonio Larrabee U.
Duval San Diego Croft U Y.
Fayette Colony Crawford U.
Gillespie Dry Branch Jermy 151 U.
Harris Houston Bush 51 U.
Henderson Athens Young T.
Kaufman Terrell Tyler U.
Nueces Corpus Christi Heller Y.
Robertson Calvert Merrill Y.
Tarrant Handley Ruth 441 Y.
Travis Austin Bray 106 Y.
Victoria Victoria Williamson A.
2.
Linaria linaria L. Karst.
lAnaria vulgaris Mill.
Loam or sandy fields seen only from northern Arkansas.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
20.
VERONICASTRUM Heister.
Veronicastrum Heist.
 Fabr. Enuin.
Meth.
PI.
Hort.
Helmstad.
111.
1759.
Type species Veronica virginica L.. 1.
Veronicastrum virginicum L. Farwell.
Veronica virginica L. Sp.
PI.
9.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia.
Grown in the Clifford Garden.
Certainly the species here considered.
Leftandra villosa Raf. Med.
Fl.
2 21.
1830.
Mr. Schweinitz has found it in North Carolina.
Name to be used for the forma Veronicastrum virginicum f. villosum Raf.
Pennell in Rhodora 23 6.
1921 prevalent in the South and West which has its leaves downy pubescent beneath.
Veronicastrum virginicum L. Farwell Drugg.
Circ.
61 231.
1917.
Corolla white or pinkish anthers brown.
Flowering in August.
Sandy or loam soil meadows or thickets in northern Louisiana and northeastern Texas doubtless also in Arkansas.
Ranges from Connecticut to Minnesota and Kansas south to Mississippi and Texas.
Louisiana.
Clairborne  L.
Natchitoches Natchitoches Cocks L.
Texas.
Bowie Texarkana Heller 4198 A Y.
21.
VERONICA Linne.
Veronica L. Sp.
PI.
9.
1753.
Type species Veronica officinalis L. of Europe.
Main stem terminating in an inflorescence the flowers remote and axillary.
Leaves except the lowermost alternate their blades oblanceolate to ovate.
Annuals.
Pedicels shorter than the lanceolate to linear sepals.
Capsule strongly flattened.
Seeds many less than 1 mm.
long smooth or nearly so.
Plants erect.
Leafblades excepting the lowermost sessile those of the lower stemleaves oblanceolate nearly entire to dentate.
Corolla whitish throughout.
Capsule greenishbrown glabrous or minutely pubescent less deeply notched the minute style hidden between the capsulelobes.
Plant glabrous.
1.
V. peregnna.
Plant pubescent with short gland tipped hairs usually present even on the capsule.
la.
V. peregrina xalapensis.
Leafblades petioled or the upper nearly sessile those of the lower stemleaves ovate crenate serrate.
Corolla deep violetblue.
Capsule yellowishbrown pubescent with slightly glandtipped hairs notched nearly or about one third length the longer style reaching about to the capsulelobes.
Plant pubescent w4th white glandless or obscurely glandtipped hairs.
2.
V. arvensis.
Pedicels longer than the ovate sepals.
Capsule relatively turgid.
Seeds few 1.31.5 mm.
long roughened.
Leaf blades ovate dentate.
Corolla violetblue.
Petals not exceeding the ovate sepals.
Capsule 4 mm.
wide its lobes rounded in profile the most distal point of each about midway between the style and the lateral margin.
Style shorter than the capsule.
3.
V. polita.
Petals much exceeding the narrowly ovate sepals.
Capsule 56 mm.
wide its lobes acutish in profile the most distal point of each near the lateral margin.
Style as long as the capsule.
4.
V. persica.
Main stem not terminating in an inflorescence the flowers in axilary racemes.
Leaves opposite throughout their blades linear.
Perennial.
5.
V. scutellata.
1.
Veronica peregrina L. Veronica peregrina L. Sp.
PI.
14.
175.3.
Habitat inEuropaehortis arvisque.
Description distinctive of this American plant which had become naturalized in Europe.
Corolla uniformly dullwhite.
Flowering from March to May and soon ripening fruit.
Moist soil riverbanks gardens and cultivated flelds common eastward but passing into and over most of our range represented by the following variety.
Widespread through eastern North America.
Arkansas.
Jefferson Jefferson Springs Pennell 10669a Y.
Pope Russell ville Pennell 10635 U Y.
Louisiana.
Acadia Crowley Pennell 10197 L Y.
Jefferson Gretna Ball 322 Y.
Rapides Alexandria Hale L.
la.
Veronica peregrina xalapensis H. B. K. Pennell.
Veronica xalapensis H. B. K. Nov. Gen. et Sp.
2 389.
1818.
Crescit in Regno Mexicano prope Xalapa alt.
630 hex.
 in nemoribus Liquidambaris Styracifluae Humboldt  Bonpland.
Veronica peregrina xalapensis H. B. K. Pennell inTorreya 19 167.
1919.
Varies in degree and length of pubescence so evidently of only varietal status.
Sandy to clayey soil ditches streambanks and fields common through most of central and western Arkansas and Texas eastward passing into V. peregrina L. Widespread through western North and South America.
Arkansas.
FrankUn Ozark Pennell 10618 Y.
Oklahoma.
Oklahoma Bethany Pennell 10580 O Y.
Texas.
Austin Wallis Pennell 10281 U Y.
Bexar  Jermy Y.
Comal New Braunfels Lindheimer 1060 T Y.
Harris Houston Pennell 10248 Y 10255 T Y.
Hays San Marcos Stanfield Y.
Kerr Kerrville Pennell 10391 A H Y.
Tarrant Fort Worth Ruth 100 Y.
Travis Austin Pennell 10446 Y.
2.
Veronica arvensis L. Corolla with all lobes deep skyblue whitish at base veined with deeper skjblue.
Fields and cultivated soil especially where moist seen from Arkansas and Oklahoma.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
3.
Veronica polita Fries.
Roadsides and gardens seen from Louisiana and Texas.
Naturahzed from Eurasia.
4.
Veronica persica Poir.
Corolla with posterior lobes skyblue anterior paleblue all whitish at base and veined with deeper blue lines.
Fields and roadsides seen from Texas.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
5.
Veronica scutellata L. Waste ground at Pineville Rapides Parish Louisiana collected by R. S. Cocks.
Surely adventive from the northern United States or Eurasia.
22.
DASISTOMA Raflnesque.
Dasistoma Raf. Journ.
de Phys.
88 89.
1819.
Type species D. aurea Raf. of Kentucky.
1.
Dasistoma macrophylla Nutt.
Raf.
Seyrmria macrophylla Nutt. Gen. N. Am.
PI.
249.
ISlS.
Hab.
In shady alluvial soils of the banks of the Little Miami near the town of Lebanon Ohio T. Nuttall.
Specimen in Kew Herbarium labeled ''Ohio Nuttall misit Mart.
1824 maj stand as the type this seen.
Dasistoma macrophylla Xutt.
Raf. New Fl.
Am.
2 67.
1837.
Brachygyne macrophylla Xutt.
SmaU Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1073 1338.
1903.
Type of genus Brachygyne Small.
Corolla yellow externally tinged or marked with purplered.
Flowering in July and August and soon ripening fruit.
Sandy to clay soil woodland usually along streams hills of northwestern Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma to Dallas County Texas.
Ranges from Ohio to eastern Nebraska south to northern Alabama and northeastern Texas.
Arkansas.
Benton Sulphur Springs Pennell 5362 P.
Washington Fayetteville Harvey 35 p. p. A.
Oklahoma.
Cleveland Moore McReynolds O.
Craig Blue Jacket Stevens 2212 L .
Creek  Sapulpa Bush 446 M .
Payne  Stillwater Waugh 33 M U.
Rogers Verdigris Bush 415 M.
Texas.
Dallas Dallas Irving Pennell 5398 P Y.
23.
AFZELIA J. F. Gmelin.
Afzelia J. F.
Gmel. Syst.
927.
1791.
Type species Anonymos cassioides Walt.
Leaf segments and caljoilobes lanceolate or broader.
Corolla externally pubescent its lobes ovate.
Capsule ovate or ovateacuminate glandulartomentose.
Seeds 115 mm.
long with reticulations raised and winglike.
Stem with spreading or reflexed hairs.
Filaments 1.52.5 mm.
long dilated and pubescent at least one half their length the distal portion glabrous.
Anther cells opening one half their length.
Capsule ovate acuminate with glandtipped hairs.
Reticulations of seed regular raised less than the diameter of the seed.
Stem glandularpubescent with spreading hairs.
Capsule 912 mm.
long.
Seeds 11.2 mm.
long.
Pedicels 712 mm.
long.
Leafblades slightly bipinnatifid.
1.
A. havardii.
Capsule 89 mm.
long.
Seeds 1.41.5 mm.
long.
Pedicels 35 9 mm.
long.
Leaf blades strongly bipinnatifid.
2.
A. texana.
Filaments 3 mm.
long dilated and pubescent about one fourth their length the distal portion lanose with spreading hairs.
Anthercells opening one fourth or one fifth length.
Capsule 57 mm.
long ovate with mostly darkjointed but not glandtipped hairs.
Reticulations of seed irregularly produced into three or four wings which equal or exceed the diameter of the seed.
Stem pubescent with fine reflexed or also longer spreading glandless hairs.
3.
A. pectinata.
Leafsegments and calyxlobes filiformlinear.
Corolla externally glabrous its lobes lanceolate.
Capsule 44.5 mm.
long urceolateacuminate glabrous.
Seeds 5.7 mm.
long with a scarcely reticular testa furrowed.
Stem sparingly pubescent with ascending incurved hairs.
4.
A. cassioides.
1.
Afzelia havardii Pennell sp.
nov.
Annual.
Stem about 4 dm.
tall much branched pubescent with retrorsespreading to incurved hairs and with longer similar glandtipped hairs.
Leafblades lanceolate to ovatelanceolate slightly bipinnatifid segments lanceolate pinnae falcately spreading glandularhirsute on both surfaces those of the stem 1.51.7 cm.
long 68 mm.
wide with 57 pairs of lateral lobes.
Pedicels slender in flower 610 mm.
long in fruit 712 mm.
long.
Calyx glandularhirsute its lobes 34 mm.
long lanceolate acute dentate.
Corolla 7.58 mm.
long its lobes 5 mm.
long ovate rounded spreading the two posterior united  f their length externally glandulartomentose within pubescent in a ring about the bases of the filaments but glabrous below posterior sinus the lobes irregularly ciliate.
Filaments 2.5 mm.
long stout posterior incurved dilated and pubescent twothirds length anterior straight less dilated pubescent onehalf length connectives glabrous anthersacs 3 mm.
long linearoblong opening onehalf length.
Capsule 912 mm.
long narrowly ovateacuminate glandulartomentose.
Seeds 11.2 mm.
long palebrown the raised reticulations thin and somewhat winglike intrareticular lines very fine continuous forming a dehcate parallel series.
Type Eagle Pass Texas collected in flower and fruit in 1882 Dr. V. Havard in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Limestone hills 
 near the Rio Grande Texas arid Lower Sonoran zone.
Texas.
Maverick Eagle Pass Havard A H.
Also collected by Wright in 1848 but no station given.
2.
Afzelia texana A.
Gray Small.
Seymeria bipinnatiseda texana A Gray in Torrey Bot.
Mex.
Bound.
117.
1859.
Upper Guadalupe river etc. Lindheimer ... Several collections of Lindheimer seen but none labeled Upper Guadalupe river.
Lindheimer 451 or 670 labeled Pedernales in Gray Herbarium may stand as the type and has been seen there.
Afzelia texana A.
Gray Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1072 1338.
1903.
Rocky limestone soil Edwards Plateau of central Texas.
Flowering in July and August and soon ripening fruit.
Texas.
Bexar Comanche Spring Lindheimer 1058 A C H K M P U Y.
Gillespie Fredericksburg Pedernales Threadgill Jermy 452 M U.
Hays San Marcos Stanfield Y.
Kerr Kerrville Pennell 10395 T Y.
3.
Afzelia pectinata Pursh Kuntze.
Seymeria pectinata Pursh Fl.
Am.
Sept. 2 737.
1814.
In South Carolina.
Catesby.
v. s. in Herb.
Sherard.
Type not seen but description distinctive.
Afzelia pectinata Pursh Kuntze Rev.
Gen. 1 457.
1891.
Corolla deep goldenyellow more or less marked with purplered within throat and at the bases of the lobes.
Flowering in August and September and soon ripening fruit.
Dry sandy longleaf pineland central Louisiana.
Ranges from South Carolina and Florida to Louisiana.
Louisiana.
Natchitoches Natchitoches Cocks L.
4.
Afzelia cassioides Walt.
J. F. Gmel.
Anonymos cassioides Walt. Fl.
Carol.
171.
1788.
Presumably from lower South Carolina.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Afzelia cassioides Walt.
J. F.
Gmel. Syst.
927.
1791.
Gerardia afzelia Miclix. FL Bor.
Am.
2 20.
1803.
New name for Afzelia cassioides Walt.
Gmel.
Seymeria tenuifolia Pursh Fl.
Am.
Sept. 737.
1814.
New name for Gerardia cassioides Walt.
Pers.
Corolla paleyellow more or less marked with purplered within throat and at the bases of the lobes.
Flowering in September and October and soon ripening fruit.
Sandy longleaf pineland central Louisiana.
Ranges from North Carolina and Florida to Louisiana.
Louisiana.
Rapides Alexandria Cocks L.
24.
AUREOLARIA Rafinesque.
Aureolaria Raf. New Fl.
Am.
2 58.
1837.
Type species Aureolaria villosa Raf.
Annual.
Stem leaves and calyx glandularhirsute.
Leafblades bipinnatifid pectinately toothed.
Calyxtube glandularhirsute the lobes pectinately toothed.
Corolla 3040 mm.
long externally glandularpubescent with pubescent below posterior sinus and over bases of posterior lobes more or less marked or tinged with purplered.
Capsule glandularpubescent.
Seeds .81 mm.
long not winged.
Panctenis Raf.
L A. pectinata.
Perennial.
Not glandular.
Leaf blades entire to domewhat bipinnatifid not pectinately cut.
Calyxtube not glandular the lobes entire to dentate.
Corolla externally glabroi.d within glibrous or diffused pubescent uniformly yellow.
Capsule not glandular.
Seeds L52.7 mm.
long strongly winged.
Aureolaria sensu strictu.
.
Capsule densely rustypubescent.
Pedicels 1.53 mm.
long.
Stem puberulent to pubescent.
2.
A. virginica.
Capsule glabrous.
Pedicels 315 mm.
long.
Plants densely cinereouspuberulent.
Wings but one sixth to one fifth the diameter of the seeds.
Corolla 4050 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes broadly lanceolate evidently dentate.
Bracts coarsely toothed.
Petioles apparently mostly only 56 mm.
long 3.
A. grandiflora.
Calyxlobes linear to lanceolate entire to slightly dentate.
Bracts entire to serrate.
Petioles mostly 1015 mm.
long.
Upper leafblades gradually smaller than the lower relatively large.
Pedicels stout.
More densely cinereous.
3a.
A. grandiflora cinerea.
Upper leafblades rather abruptly smaller than the lower relatively small.
Pedicels slender.
Less densely cinereous.
3b.
A. grandiflora serrata.
Plants glabrous to minutely puberulent.
Wings one fourth to two fifths the diameter of the seed.
Calyxlobes entire.
Stem finely puberulent not glaucous.
Pedicels and calyx externally puberulent.
Corolla 4050 mm.
long.
4.
A. dispersa.
Stem glabrous glaucous.
Pedicels and calyx externally glabrous.
Leafblades at least the lower somewhat pinnately cut the segments lanceolate or broader.
Corolla 4060 mm.
long somewhat pubescent within above bases of filaments.
Awn of anther 11.5 mm.
long.
Capsule 1529 mm.
long.
Plant relatively stout.
5.
A. flava macrantha.
Leafblades all very deeply pinnately cut the segments linearlanceolate or nearly hnear.
Corolla 4045 mm.
long glabrous within above bases of filaments.
Awn of anther 1.52 mm.
long.
Capsule 1215 mm.
long.
Plant relatively slender.
6.
A. calycosa.
1.
Aureolaria pectinata Nutt.
Pennell.
Gerardia pedicularia pectinata Nutt. Gen. N. Am.
PI.
2 46.
1818.
Hab.
In the sandy pine forests of Carolina and Georgia.
Probable type collected by Nuttall and now in the British Museum has been verified by Dr. S. Moore as the plant here considered.
Aureolaria pectinata Nutt.
Pennell in Bull.
Torr.
Bot Club.
40 314.
1913.
Corolla yellow externally more or less tinged with reddish within not marked with purplered.
Flowering from July to October and soon ripening fruit.
Dry sandy pine and oak lands especially hilly in the Coastal Plain of Louisiana and doubtless also in eastern Arkansas on the lower Ouachita Hills in Arkansas.
Ranges through the Coastal Plain from South Carolina to Florida and Louisiana.
Arkansas.
Garland Hot Springs Pennell 5680 A C H K M P U Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Engelmann 313 M.
Louisiana.
Caddo Shreveport Cocks L.
Rapides Alexandria Pineville Pennell 5638 C H L M P U Y.
2.
Aureolaria virginica L. Pennell.
Rhinanthus virginicus L. Sp.
PI.
603.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia.
Type Clayton 488 is identified by Dr. S. F. Blake in Rhodora 20 66 1918 as the species here considered.
Aureolaria villosa Raf. New Fl.
Am.
2 59.
1837.
No type locality stated nor type known to exist.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Aureolaria virginica L. Pennell in Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club.
40 409.
1913.
Corolla yellow with no tinge of purplered.
Flowering in June or July.
Open sandy woodland among oaks in central Louisiana.
Ranges from New Hampshire to Michigan south to Florida and Louisiana.
Unknown elsewhere west of the Mississippi River.
Louisiana.
Rapides Alexandria Hale L.
3.
Aureolaria grandiflora Benth.
Pennell.
Gerardia grandiflora Benth. in Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
1 206.
1826.
Province of Texas Drummond.
Type Drummond 293 seen in Kew Herbarium.
Dasijstoma drurmno7idii Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 520.
1846.
In Texas Drummond Gerardia grandiflora Benthl .
.
.
v. s. Type identical with preceding Drummond 293 seen in Kew Herbarium.
Aureolaria grandiflora Benth.
Pennell in Rhodosa 20 135.
1918.
Probably in sandy oak woods.
Coastal Plain of southeastern Texas.
Including varieties the species ranges northward to Wisconsin.
Flowering in June and July.
Texas.
Austin San Felipe Drummond 293 H K.
Harris Houston Hall 420 H K M U Y.
Waller Hempstead Hall 419 H M U Y 3a.
Aureolaria grandiflora cinerea Pennell var.
nov.
Stem 1012 dm.
tall more densely cinereouspuberulent.
Petioles about 1015 mm.
long.
Lower leaves lanceolate to ovate lanceolate usually more deeply incised though only at times in broad basal portion of lowest leaves reaching nearly to the midrib 5 915 cm.
long with 26 pairs of lateral lobes rarely nearly entire upper leaves smaller though larger than in the species and less cut bracts nearly entire or more frequently serrate or even laciniate toward the base leaves more cinerous.
Pedicels stouter.
Calyxlobes 812 mm.
long linearlanceolate to lanceolate entire or slightly dentate.
Capsule 1317 mm.
long.
Otherwise as in the species.
Type Neck Jasper Co. Missouri collected in fruit F. W. Pennell 5374 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Corolla yellow with no tinge of purplered.
Flowering in July and August fruiting September and October.
Dry oakwoods red loam or on usually more or less sandy soil from the valley of the Missouri River in central Missouri to the upper Trinity River in Texas.
Arkansas.
Washington Fayetteville Harvey 59 M.
Oklahoma.
Cleveland P. J.
White 191 M.
Haskell San Bois Mts. Sheldon 325 U.
LeFlore Page Stevens 2709 I.
Texas.
Dallas Dallas Reverchon 711 M U.
Smith Swan Reverchon 3228 M.
3b.
Aureolaria grandiflora serrata Torr.
Pennell comb.
nov. Dasysioma drummondii serrata Torr.
Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 521.
1846.
In Louisiana ad Red River Hale
Gerardio strrato Torrey
.... V. in herb.
Torrey.
Type in Kew Herbarium verified by N. E. Brown as agreeing with my number 5675.
Isotype seen in Herbarium Columbia University.
Gerardia grandiflora integriuscula A.
Gray Syn.
Fl.
N. Am.
2.
1291.
1878.
G. serrata Torr. Benth.
.
.
.
W. Louisiana iaZe. 
Type same as preceding.
Corolla yellow with no tinge of purplered.
Flowering in July and August.
Sandy oakwoods shortleaf pine region of northwestern Louisiana and northeastern Texas probably also in the longleaf pinehills north of Alexandria Louisiana.
Louisiana.
Caddo Shreveport Pennell 5662 A C H I L M P U Y.
Natchitoches Chopin E.. J. Palmer 8847 M.
Rapides Alexandria Hale L Y.
Texas.
Bowie Texarkana Pennell 5675 A C H K M P S T U Y.
Rusk or Panola between Tatum  Beckville.
Reverchon 3227 H M U.
4.
Aureolaria dispersa Small Pennell.
Dasysioma dispersa Small in Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club.
28452.
1901.
Louisiana Feliciana Carpenter type in the Herb of Columbia University.
Type seen.
Aureolaria dispersa Small Pennell in Bull Torr.
Bot.
Club.
40411.
1913.
Corolla yellow with no tinge of purplered.
Flowering in August and September.
Sandy thickets and Oakland in the longleaf pine belt of southern Louisiana.
Ranges eastward to southern Alabama.
Louisiana.
Acadia Crowley Pennell 10188 Y.
Rapides Pineville Pennell 5639 C H L M P U Y.
5.
Aureolaria flava macrantba Pennell var.
nov. Leaves tardily glabrate or permanently pubescent above.
Calyxlobes 514 mm.
long.
Corolla 35 4060 mm.
long.
Capsule 1520 mm.
long.
Otherwise as in the species Aureolaria flava L. Far well.
Corolla yellow with no tinge of purplered.
Flowering from July to September fruiting August to October.
Oakwoods frequently sandy or rocky in the Ouachita Hills of central Arkansas.
Ranges from southern Ontario to Alabama IHinois and Arkansas eastward passing into the species.
Arkansas.
Garland Hot Springs Pennell 5682 C H K M P U Y.
Pulaski Little Maumelle Engelmann 407 M.
Saline  Harvey 35 H.
6.
Axireolaria calycosa Mack.
 Bush Pennell comb.
nov. Dasystoma calycosa Mack.
 Bush in Rep. Missouri Bot.
Gard.
16 105.
1905.
Monteer Shannon Co. Mo.
Bush 219 July 31 1899 type.
Type seen.
Corolla yellow with no tinge of purplered.
Flowering in July and August.
Stony oakland common in the Ozark Mountains of southern Missouri and northern Arkansas also occurs in red loam region of northwestern and granitic region of central Arkansas also in sandy pineland of the Coastal Plain of eastern Arkansas.
Arkansas.
Baxter Cotter E. J. Palmer 8414 M. Franklin Ozark Pennell 10620 Y.
Izard Penters Bluff Pennell 10676 Y.
Jefferson Jefferson Springs Pennell 10664 Y.
Pulaski Little Maumelle Little Rock Pennell 5679 C H M P U Y 10645 Y.
Saline  Harvey 35 H.
White Bald Knob Biltm.
Herb.
2827 U.
25.
AGALINIS Raflnesque.
Agalinis Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 61.
1837.
Type species A. palustris Raf. of the Atlantic seaboard.
Capsule oblong to ovoidoblong.
Calyxlobes 38 mm.
long Corolla pubescent within in a narrow line below posterior sinus.
Leaves lanceolate to lanceacuminate entire or some trifid at base slightly scabrous above 26 mm.
wide.
Pedicels 23 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes as long as or longer than the tube.
Corolla 2530 mm.
long its lobes widely spreading.
Anthercells caudate or awned at distal apex densely lanosepubescent.
Stem glabrous and branches spreading.
I. Heterophyllae.
1.
A. heterophylla.
Leaves narrowly linear entire very scabrous above .81.5 mm.
wide.
Pedicels 516 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes about one half the length of the tube.
Corolla 2026 mm long its posterior lobes ascendingspreading.
Anthercells obtuse to acutish at distal apex moderately lanosepubescent.
Stem scabreh lous and branches ascending.
II.
Asperae.
2.
A. aspera.
Capsule globose to globoseobovoid.
Caljoclobes less than the length of the tube.
Corolla with lobes all spreading pubescent within at base of posterior lobes.
Seeds darkbrown.
Plants tending to blacken in drying.
Caljoctube not decidedly reticulatevenose.
III.
PURPUREAE.
Inflorescence of elongated normal racemes the pedicels less than 12 mm.
long.
Corolla pubescent within over nearly entire width of basal portions of posterior lobes.
Leaves and calyxlobes obtuse to acutish.
Anthercells obtuse to acutish at distal apex.
Plant fleshy bushybranched below and with elongated racemes above.
Pedicels 512 mm.
long.
3.
A. spici flora.
Leaves and calyxlobes acute to acuminate.
Anthercells mucronate to caudate at distal apex.
Plants not fleshy more uniformly branched.
Pedicels .55 8 mm.
long.
Stem smooth or minutely scabrellous.
Axillary fascicles not or scarcely developed if present shorter than the leaves.
Seeds .61.5 mm.
long.
Axillary fascicles slightly developed.
Pedicels 38 mm.
long.
Corolla 2038 mm.
long.
Seeds .91.5 mm long areas between reticulations mostly paler and intrareticular lines discernible.
4.
A. purpurea.
Axillary fascicles scarcely or not developed.
Pedicels 23 mm.
long.
Corolla 2025 mm.
long.
Seeds .91 mm.
long areas between reticulations nearly black and no intrareticular lines discernible.
5.
A. pinetorum.
Stem more or less scabrous.
Axillary fascicles abundantly developed mostly equaling the leaves.
Seeds .5.8 mm.
long.
6.
A.fasciculata.
Inflorescence usually of shorter racemes if elongated pedicels over 10 mm.
long usually some flowers by slower or arrested growth of stemapex appearing nearly terminal  pedicels 50 mm.
long.
Corolla 2040 mm.
long pubescent within in narrow line below sinus of posterior lobes.
Seeds with intrareticular areas broad nearly hexagonal.
Stigma 34 nun.
long.
Chief cauline leaves 23.5 cm.
long those of the branches not scalelike.
Stem scabrous.
Axillary fascicles abundantly developed.
Calyxlobes minute .1.6 mm.
long.
Pedicels 2540 mm.
long.
7 .
A .
pulchella.
Stem glabrous or nearly so.
Axillary fascicles scarcely or not developed.
Calyxlobes longer triangularlanceolate or subulate.
Pedicels 1530 mm.
long.
Corolla 2530 mm.
long slightly upcurved its lobes strongly ciliate.
Anthercells obtuse to acutish at distal apex.
Calyxlobes .71 mm.
long.
Leaves filiform .3.8 mm.
wide.
S. A. caddoensis.
Corolla 2025 mm.
long strongly upcurved its lobes slightly ciliate.
Anthercells acuminateattenuate at distal apex.
Calyxlobes 12 mm.
long.
Leaves linear 13 mm.
wide.
9.
A. strictifolia.
Corolla 1522 mm.
long pubescent within over entire width of basal portions of posterior lobes.
Seeds with intrareticular areas elongated narrow.
Stigma 2 mm.
long.
Chief cauline leaves .51 cm long thos3 of the branches scalelike.
10.
A oligophylla.
Seeds yellowishbrown.
Plants not tending to blacken in drying.
Calyxtube evidently reticulatevenose.
Racemes little elongated and some flowers appearing terminal IV.
Erectae.
Corolla 1218 mm.
long pink with prominent red spots within.
Stigma 23 mm.
long.
Capsule globose to globoseovoid brown 45 mm.
long.
Seeds rounded and turgid.
Calyxlobes .51.8 mm.
long.
Pedicels 830 mm.
long.
Plant divaricately and relatively evenly branched.
11.
A. gattingeri.
Corolla 812 mm.
long palepink with faint spots within.
Stigma 1 mm.
long.
Capsule globoseobovoid lightbrown 56 mm.
long.
Seeds angled not turgid.
Calyxlobes 1.52 mm.
long.
Pedicels 522 mm.
long.
Plant widely branched the primary branches long and laxly ascending.
12.
A. viridis.
Corolla with posterior lobes arched or flattened over stamens and style the anterior lobes spreading.
V. Tenuifoliae.
Posterior corollalobes over one half length of anterior concavearched.
Stem nearly or quite glabrous.
Axillary fascicles not or but moderately developed.
Corolla 2023 mm.
long pubescent within in narrow line below posterior sinus.
Seeds nearly black with reticulations firm and enclosing nearly hexagonal sunken areas intrareticular lines none.
Leaves scabroroughened to nearly glabrous above.
Calyxlobes .1.4 mm.
long triangularsubulate to subulate.
Id.
A. edwardsiana.
Calyxlobes .61 mm.
long triangular to triangularacuminate.
13a.
A. edwardsiana glabra.
Corolla 1023 mm.
long glabrous within below posterior sinus.
Seeds brown with reticulations firmer and enclosing broad angular not sunken spaces intraretiular lines fine.
Leaves somewhat scabrous above.
Corolla 1523 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes .21 mm.
long.
14a.
A. tenufolia leucanthera.
Corolla 1015 mm.
long.
Calj'xlobes .5 12 mm.
long.
Branches spreading.
Leaves slightly scabrous above spreading.
Axillary fascicles slightly or not developed.
Filaments lanate.
Anthercells densely lanose.
14b.
A .
tenuifolia macrophylla.
Branches ascending.
Leaves slightly to decidedly scabrous above ascending.
Axillary fascicles relatively conspicuously developed.
Filaments somewhat lanate to glabrous.
Anthercells sparingly to moderately lanose.
14c.
A. tenuifolia parviflora.
Posterior corollalobes less than one half length of anterior flattenedascending the corolla 2327 mm.
long pubescent within a narrow line below posterior sinus.
Stem scabrillous.
Axillary fascicles conspicuously developed.
15.
A. homalantha.
1.
Agalinis heterophylla Nutt.
Small.
Gerardia heterophylla Nutt. in Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
XL 5 180.
1834.
'Hab.
In the prairies of the Arkansas near Great Salt River Oklahoma.
Type probably a specimen seen in Herb.
Columbia University labeled Arkansas Nuttall Gerardia trifida.
Gerardia crustata Greene Leaflets Bot.
Obs.
 Grit.
2 108.
1910.
Sapulpa Indian Territory 21 Sept. 1894 collected by B. F. Bush.
Type specimens in mjherbarium.
Type Bush 417 seen in Herb.
Greene now at the University of Notre Dame.
It is the prevalent form with leaves all entire.
Agalinis heterophylla Xutt.
Small Britton  Brown 111.
Fl.
N. Un.
St.  Can.
ed.
II.
3 209.
1913.
Corolla palepink with two yellow lines and many diffused small purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering from late August to early October.
Sandy or sandy loam or rarely black calcareous soil prairie or occasionally pineland southeastern Missouri and northeastern Oklahoma to southwestern Louisiana and southeastern Texas.
Chiefly on the Coastal Plain most frequent in the coastal prairie and on the edge of the saltmarshes less frequent to occasional through the shortleaf pine belt and on alluvial soils to southeastern Missouri and occasional in the black calcareous prairie of central Texas inland locally frequent in the sandy prairies of eastern Oklahoma.
Arkansas.
Lincoln Varner Bush 132 M U Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Hasse Y.
Oklahoma.
Cleveland Norman Emig 338 U.
Craig Vinita Bush 416 M.
Creek Sapulpa Bush 417 H M U Y.
Sequoyah Blunt E. Palmer U.
Louisiana.
Caddo Shreveport Pennell 5663 L M P Y.
Calcasieu Lake Charles Pennell 5618 P U.
Cameron Cameron Cocks 3110 H.
Texas.
Austin Industry H. Wurzlow I.
Brazoria Brazoria Columbia Bush 290 M.
Colorado Alleyton Pennell 5559 A C H P U Y Columbus Eagle Lake Pennell 5547 A C H L M P U Y.
Dallas Dallas Reverchon 712 p. p. H M U.
Galveston Galveston Id. Pennell 5571 A C H J K L M P LT Y .
Harris  Brookline Pennell 5566 P U  Harrisburg Pennell 5578 A C H P Webster Pennell 5569 H M P U.
Matagorda Van Vleck Pennell 5506 I P U.
Navarro Corsicana Reverchon 3224 p. p. M.
Orange Orange Pennell 5611 A C H I J M P U Y.
Robertson Hearne Pennell 5420 A C M P U Y.
Tarrant Fort Worth Ruth 72 C Handley.
Travis Austin Young T.
ITpshur Big Sandy Reverchon 3223 p. p. M.
Victoria Victoria Pennell 5502 A C H J K L M P S T U Y.
2.
Agalinis aspera Dougl.
Britton.
Gerardia aspera Dougl.
 Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 517.
1846.
In America boreali central in planitie Red River Douglas
 Type collected by Douglas in Manitoba in 1827 not verified but certainly the species here considered.
Agalinis aspera Dougl.
Britton Britton  Brown 111.
Fl.
N. Un.
St.  Can.
ed II.
3 209.
1913.
Corolla palepink with two yellow lines and many diffused small purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering in August.
Prairies of central Oklahoma south to Kiowa County.
Through the great Plains north to South Dakota Manitoba and Illinois.
Oklahoma.
Alfalfa Carwile Ward 45 U Y.
Kay Tonkawa Barker C.
Kiowa Snyder Eggert M.
Payne Stillwater Waugh 215 M U.
3.
Agalinis spiciflora Engelm.
Pennell.
Gerardia maritima grandiflora Benth. in Compan.
Bot.
Mag.
1 208.
1836.
Texas Drummond 1st.
coll.
Type in Kew Herbarium verified by Dr. N. E. Brown as agreeing with my number 4702 from Florida isotype seen in Herb of Columbia University.
Gerardia spiciflora Engelm. in Boston Jour.
Nat.
Hist.
5 227.
1845.
New name for Gerardia maritima grandiflora Benth.
Agalinis spiciflora Engelm.
Pennell in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
71 277.
1920.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and many small purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering from March to September.
Salt marshes along the Gulf Coast west to Galveston Island Texas.
Along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts from North Carolina to Texas and on the Bahaman Cuban and Yucatan coasts.
Louisiana.
Jefferson Grand Isle Langlois N.
Terre Bonne Timbalier Id. E. C. Wurzlow Y.
Texas.
Galveston Galveston Id. Lindheimer 141 H M.
4.
Agalinis purpurea L. Pennell.
Gerardia purpurea L. Sp.
PI.
610.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada.
Linnean diagnosis includes both longand shortpediceled plants so could include all pink purple flowered species.
The first citation accompanied by a figure Plukenet's Digitalis virginiana rubra foliis  facie Antirrhini vulgaris evidently the prevalent plant of the Atlantic seaboard is considered as the tT3e.
Agalinis purpurea L. ' Pennell in BuU.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 126.
1913.
Corolla rosepink with two yellow hues and many diffused small purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering from July to September.
Moist sandy soil mostly along rivers in shortleaf pine belt of the Coastal Plain of Arkansas Louisiana and eastern Texas and probably in heavier soils entering the longleaf pineland where in lighter soils it is replaced by A. pinetorum Pennell.
Ranges from Massachusetts to Minnesota south to Florida and Texas.
Arkansas.
Jefferson Pine Bluff Pennell 5683 A C H L M P U Y.
Pulaski Little Rock Hasse Y.
Louisiana.
Boissier Alden Bridge Trelease M.
Ouachita Sicard E. J. Palmer 8927 M.
Rapides Alexandria Cocks L.
Texas.
Harris Houston Hall 418 p. p. I.
Smith Tyler Reverchon M.
Van Zandt Grand Saline Reverchon 2112 p. p. M U Y.
5.
Agalinis pinetorum Pennell.
Agalinis pinetorum Pennell in Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40  424.
1913. 
Type St. Marks Wakulla Co. Florida Sept. 26 1912 F. W. Pennell 4708 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Corolla pink with two yellow hues and diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering in late September and October.
Moist soil in longleaf pineland and on coastal prairie central and southern Louisiana.
Ranges eastward in longleaf pine belt to southern Georgia and northern Florida.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu Lake Charles Pennell 5621 A C H J M P T U Y.
Rapides Pineville Pennell 5643 C P 5648 A H K L M P U Y.
6.
Agalinis fasciculata Ell.
Raf.
Gerardia fasciculata Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 2 115.
1822.
Grows principally in lands subject to occasional inundation from the ocean  on Edings Island near Beaufort very common.
South Carolina.
Type seen at the Charleston Museum.
Agalinis fasciculata Ell.
Raf. New EI.
Am.
2 63.
1837.
Gerardia galvesiana Greene Pittonia 5 138.
1903.
Galveston Id.
Texas S. M. Tracy 24 Sept.
1901.
Type seen in Greene Herbarium now at University of Notre Dame.
A rank probably saltmarsh plant.
Gerardia langloisii Greene Leaflets Bot.
Obs.
and Crit.
2 108.
1910.
Known only as collected by the late Father Langlois in prairies near Eunice Louisiana 12 Sept. 1894.
Type seen in Greene Herbarium.
A smallflowered form.
Gerardia asprella Greene 1. c. 109.
1910.
Near St. Martinsville Louisiana 27 Sept. 1892 A.
B.
Langlois.
Type seen in Greene Herbarium.
A smallflowered form.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and many diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering from August to October.
Sandy or clayey loam especially in old fields also in prairies and pineland shortleaf pineland of southern Arkansas and eastern Texas in the longleaf pineland and coastal prairie of Louisiana and southeastern Texas where frequently of more condensed habit and with smaller flowers  Gerardia langloisii and asprella also west of the Ozarks in central Oklahoma and southwestern Missouri.
Ranges eastward through the Coastal Plain to South Carolina.
Arkansas.
Hempstead Washington Pennell 5677 P Y.
Miller Texarkana Letterman Y.
Nevada Prescott Hollister 99 U.
Oklahoma.
Creek Sapulpa Bush 418 H M U Y Pennell 5396 M P U.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu Kinder Pennell 5636 A H M P UY.
Rapides Pineville Pennell 5644 P 5645 C P U Y.
Texas.
Bowie Texarkana Heller 4271 A C H M U Y.
Galveston Galveston Id. Tracy 7603 p. p. H N Y.
Harris Brookhne Pennell 5565 P Harrisburg Pennell 5563 P 5579 P Y Houston Hall 418 p. p. H I M U Y Sheldon Webster Pennell 5570 J K N P U.
Jasper Buna Pennell 5588 P U 5604 P.
Matagorda Van Vleck Pennell 5511 C P T.
Montgomery Conroe Pennell 5580 A I N P 5582 U M P Y.
Navarro Corsicana Reverchon 3224 p. p. M.
Orange Orange Pennell 5609 P 5610 A H P U.
Panola Beckville Reverchon 2747 M.
Polk Livingston E. J. Palmer 6751 M.
Robertson Hearne Pennell 5423 A C H M P U.
Rusk  Vinzent M.
Upshur Big Sandy Reverchon 3223 p. PM.
7.
Agalinis pulchella Pennell.
Agalinis pulchella Pennell in Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 428 1913.
Type Ponce de Leon Holmes Co. Florida Sept. 17 1912 F. W. Pennell 4658 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Corolla rosepink with two yellow lines and relatively large purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering in September.
Open sandy longleaf pineland central Louisiana.
Ranges eastward to southern Georgia and northern Florida.
Louisiana.
Rapides Glenmora Pennell 5631 L M P U Pineville Pennell 5637 A C H P U Y.
8.
Agalinis caddoensis Pennell sp.
nov.
Annual.
Plant dullgreen or purplish tending to blacken in drjdng.
Stem 46 dm.
tall slend3r with many loosely ascending branches finely striate 4angled above very sparingly scabrellous.
Leaves opposite or sparingly subopposite above spreading filiform entire acuminate strongly involute those of the stem 2.53 cm.
long .8 mm.
wide bracts slightly reduced leaves scabrous above.
Axillary fascicles not developed.
Racemes scarcely elongated broken frequently but one flower of pair developed 15 flowered.
Pedicels ascendingspreading slender sparingly scabrellous to glabrous in flower 1322 mm.
long equaling to slightly longer than the bracts many on the branches appearing as terminal.
Calyxtube 45 mm.
long hemisphericcampanulate obscurely 5ribbed truncate its lobes .71 mm.
long triangularsubulate not callose apex of tube and lobes within evidently puberulent.
Corolla 20 2530 mm.
long spreading 2328 mm.
wide membranous its tube 1923 mm.
long slightly upcurved its lobes 67 mm.
long rounded to retuse all spreading externally minutely pubescent in line below posterior sinus lobes ciliate the posterior slightly more so rosepink 2 yellow lines and many small diffused redpurple spots within throat anteriorly.
Filaments flattened posterior 79 mm.
long anterior 1113 mm.
long all lanose especially toward apex anthercells 33.5 mm.
long ollonglanceolate obtuse to acutish at base lanose with white hairs on the valvular surface glabrous on the sides.
Style 1113 mm.
long linear pubescent.
Stigma 3.5 mm.
long.
Capsule not seen.
Type dry loam oakwoods along Kansas City Southern Railroad 23 miles northwest of Shreveport Caddo Parish Louisiana collected in flower October 5 1913 F. W. Pennell 5653 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania flowers in October.
Dry loam oakwoods around Shreveport Caddo Parish Louisiana.
Louisiana.
Caddo Shreveport Pennell 5655 A J L P U 5658 C H K M P U Y 5665 P.
9.
Agalinis strictifolia Benth.
Pennell comb.
nov.  Gerardia strictifolia Benth. in Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
1 209.
1836.
Hab.
Texas Drummond 3rd Coll.
n.
294.
Type seen in Kew Herbarium.
Isotype in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia etc.
Corolla pale purplishpink with two yellow lines and many diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering from late August to early October.
Sandy soil or more rarely black calcareous loam.
Coastal Plain from Austin and Travis to Webb counties southern Texas.
Frequent or common through the sandy southern Fayette prairie region and on the coastal prairie less frequent inland in the black belt in the valley of the Nueces River and on the lower Rio Grande.
Texas.
Austin San Felipe Drummond 294 A H K Y.
Lavaca Hallettsville Fisher 125 U.
Nueces.
Corpus Christi Rose 18066 U.
Travis Austin Pennell 5431 A H J M P U Y.
Victoria Aloe Pennell 5492 C L N P U Y Victoria Pennell 5489 I P S.
Webb Rio San Pedro etc. Schott H.
10.
Agalinis oligophylla Pennell.
Gerardia aphylla grandiflora Benth. in Compan.
Bot.
Mag.
1 174.
1836.
Jacksonville Drummond.
Type labeled Jacksonville evidently the present Jackson Louisiana seen in Kew Herbarium.
Gerardia plukerietii rnicrophylla A.
Gray Syn.
Fl.
N. Am.
1.
11293.
1878.
Louisiana Drummond Hale.
Type an isotype of Gerardia aphylla grandiflora Benth. seen in Gray Herbarium.
Agalinis oligophylla Pennell in BiiU.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 432.
1913.
New name for Gerardia plukenetii rnicrophylla A.
Gray not A. rnicrophylla Raf. 1837.
Corolla rosepink with two yellow lines and mostly along these rather large purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering from late September to late October.
Sandy or somewhat clayey soil longleaf pineland or more rarely prairies southern Louisiana and southeastern Texas.
Most abundant in the flat longleaf pineland of southwestern Louisiana and southeastern Texas less frequent or occasional on the adjacent coastal prairie.
Ranges eastward to southern Mississippi.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu Lake Charles Pennell 5617 A C H J K L M P U Y.
Rapides Glenmora Pennell 5630 A C H I J L M N P U Y  Pineville Pennell 5640 A C H P S 5647 K M P U Y.
Texas.
Hardin Silsbee Pennell 5591 M N P U.
Harris Harrisburg Pennell 5576 A C H J K L M P S T U Y.
Jasper Buna Pennell 5583 A C H L N P S Y.
Orange Orange Pennell 5607 P.
II.
Agalinis gattingeri Small Small.
Gerardia tenuifolia leptophylla Benth. in Compan.
Bot.
Mag.
1 174.
1836.
Jacksonville Louisiana.
Drummond.
Type seen in Kew Herbarium.
Gerardia gattingeri Small.
Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1078 1338.
1903.
Type Curtiss N. A. PI.
no.
1910 in Herb.
C.
U.
Type collected by A. Gattinger on hills around Nashville Tennessee seen in Herb.
Columbia University.
Agalinis gattingeri Small Small in Britton  Brown 111.
Fl.
N. Un.
St. and Can.
ed II.
3213.
1913.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and several to many rather large purplered spots within throat anterior h Flowering from late August to midOctober.
Sandy or clayey soil often stony woodland barrens or open bluffs  in the Ozark and Ouachita mountains of Arkansas and southeastern Oklahoma in hills of eastcentral Oklahoma in the oak and shortleaf pineland of northwestern Louisiana and eastern Texas extending nearly to coast in Harris County Texas.
Ranges from Michigan and Minnesota south to Alabama and Texas.
Arkansas.
Boone Harrison E. J. Palmer 6913 M.
Carroll Eureka Springs E. J. Palmer 4561 P.
Garland Hot Springs Pennell 5681 P.
Hempstead Fulton E. J. Palmer 6870 M.
Newton Jasper E. J. Palmer 6945 M.
Pulaski Little Rock Hasse Y.
Oklahoma.
Creek Sapulpa Bush 443 M N U Y.
Le Flore Canaval Mt. E. J. Palmer 9057 M.
Louisiana.
Caddo Shreveport Pennell 5656 P U 5659 C M N P Y 5666 A H I L P U.
Rapides Alexandria Hale A U Y.
Sabine Sodus Pennell 5650 A J K L M P S T Y 5652 C H N P U.
Texas.
Harris Ljnchburg Lindheimer M.
Lamar Paris Heller 4219 M U Y.
Panola Beckville Reverchon 3225 M.
Polk Livingston E. J. Palmer 6796 M.
12.
Agalinis viridis Small Pennell comb.
nov. Gerardia viridis SmaU in BuU.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 25 619.
1898.
Mr. HeUer .
.
.
collected .
.
.
specimens .
.
.
about Texarkana Arkansas during the past season no.
4240.
Type seen in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Corolla palepink with two yellow lines and faint purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering from early September to early October.
Moist sandy pineland in the Coastal Plain  frequent or common in longleaf pineland rarely on coastal prairies in southwestern Louisiana and southeastern Texas frequent or occasional in shortleaf pineland of northwestern Louisiana and northeastern Texas extending through eastern Arkansas to southeastern Missouri also on prairies of southwestern Missouri.
Arkansas.
Jefferson Pine Bluff Pennell 5184 A C H J. M P U Y.
Louisiana.
Boissier Alden Bridge Trelease M.
Caddo Shreveport Pennell 5668 A H L M P.
Calcasieu Kinder Pennell 5625 C P Y Lake Charles Pennell 5620 P S U.
Rapides Glenmora Pennell 5633 A H L M N P U Pineville Pennell 5642 P U 5649 C P U Y.
St. Landry Eunice Langlois N.
Texas.
Bowie Texarkana Heller 4240 A C H I M U Y.
Brazoria Columbia Bush 1532 M Y.
Hardin Silsbee Pennell 5592 C H K N P.
Harris Harrisburg Pennell 5577 C H M P T U Y.
Jasper Buna Pennell 5584 A I J L P U 5589 M N P Y.
Orange Orange Pennell 5606 A P U.
13.
Agalinis edwardsiana Pennell sp.
nov.
Annual.
Plant dullgreen or purplish tending to blacken in drying.
Stem 48 dm.
tall slender with many laxly ascendingspreading branches obscurely striate 4angled above nearly terete below essentially glabrous sparingly very minutely scabrellous near bases of branches.
Leaves opposite or sparingly subopposite above spreading or the lower frequently somewhat reflexed linear entire acuminate those of the stem 23.5. cm.
long .5.9 mm.
wide bracts gradually reduced leaves scabroroughened to nearly glabrous above.
Axillary fascicles scarcely or not developed when present much shorter than the subtending leaves.
Racemes slightly elongated frequently but one flower of pair developed 29 flowered.
Pedicels ascendingspreading slender filiform glabrous in flower 530 mm.
long in fruit 1032 mm.
long 1.5 to 3 times the length of the bracts.
Calyxtube 3.54.5 mm.
long hemispheric obscurely veined ribveined f the length of the capsule truncate its lobes .1.4 mm.
long triangularsubulate to subulate acuminate apex of tube and lobes within granularpuberulent.
Corolla 2023 mm.
long spreading 1820 mm.
wide membranous its tube 1214 mm.
long straight its lobes posterior 56 mm.
long anterior 89 mm.
long all erose to emarginate anterior spreading posterior broadly arched over stamens and style externally mostly glabrous sparingly minutely pubescent below sinuses of lobes within slightly pubescent about bases of filaments and in narrow line below posterior sinus lobes all ciliate rosepink 2 yellow lines and many small diffused sharplydefined redpurple spots within throat anteriorly.
Filaments flattened posterior 6 mm.
long anterior 910 mm.
long posterior lanosepubescent near base glabrous distally becoming slightly lanosepubescent toward apex anterior lanose throughout anthercells 33.3 mm.
long lanceolate cuspidate at base scarcely muriculate very densely lanose wath white hairs hairs on the valvular surface glabrous on the sides.
Style 1315 mm.
long filiformlinear pubescent to glabrous.
Stigma 11.5 mm.
long.
Capsule 67 mm.
long globose to obovoidglobose darkbrown.
Seeds 1.11.3 mm.
long broadly lunatetriangular to ovoid narrower than broad irregular rounded testa darkbrown to nearly black with reticulations firm nearly or quite black enclosing broad nearly hexagonal angular sunken spaces honeycomb appearance intrareticular lines not evident.
Type dry adobe hills 5 miles northeast of Boerne Kendall County Texas collected in flower September 16 1913 F. W. Pennell 5482 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Thin soil over limestone adobe soil Edwards Plateau of Central Texas.
Flowering in September.
Texas.
Bexar Comanche Spring Lindheimer 149 A C H M P U Y.
Gillespie Three Mill Creek Jermy 754 p. p. M U Williams Creek.
Kendall Boerne Pennell 5482 A C H J K L M P S U Y 10417 Y.
Kerr Kerrville Pennell 10369 A C T U Y.
Travis Austin Pennell 10454 H M P Y Tharp T.
13a.
Agalinis edwardsiana glabra Pennell var.
nov.
Stricter Calyxlobes .61 mm.
long triangular to triangularacuminate.
Mature capsule not seen.
Otherwise as in the species.
Type arroyos.
Devils River Texas collected in flower C. C. Parry Mexican Boundary Survey 784  in United States National Herbarium.
Arroyos western Edwards Plateau Texas.
Texas.
Valverde Devils River Parry Mex.
Bound.
Surv.
784 H U.
14.
Agalinis tenuifolia Vahl Raf.
Gerardia tenuifolia Vahl Sjnnb.
Bot.
37.
1794.
Habitat in America septentionali.
Type in Herb.
Universitetets Botaniske Museum Copenhagen Denmark collected by Von Rohren and said to be probably from Philadelphia is identified by Dr. C. H. Ostenfeld as agreeing with my number 2681 from Pennsylvania.
Agalinis tenuifolia Vahlj Raf. New Fl.
Am.
2 64.
1837.. Corolla purplishpink with two yellow lines and small diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
The typical form with small corollas and minute calyxlobes a plant widespread in the eastern United States and which passes into each of the following varieties is scarcely or not represented in our area.
Possibly the following collection should be assigned to it Arkansas.
Miller Texarkana Pennell 5671 P U.
14a.
Agalinis tenuifolia leucanthera Raf.
Pennell.
Gerardia leucanthera Raf. FI.
Ludov.
50.
1817.
Louisiana.
C. C. Robin.
No type known to exist.
Agalinis tenuifolia leucanthera Raf.
Pennell in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
71 286.
1920.
Usually in moist soil loam or clay rarely in sand woodland or meadow especially near streams in the Coastal Plain of Louisiana and eastern Texas.
Ranges eastward through the Coastal Plain to southern Georgia and northern Florida.
Eastward passes into the species.
Louisiana.
Caddo Shreveport Pennell 5657 P 5660 P U 5661 A H K L M P Y 5664 C J P  5669 P S.
Calcasieu Lake Charles Pennell 5616 C H L P U Y West Lake Pennell 5612 A M N P U Concordia  Smith H.
Rapides Alexandria Hale L Y.
Texas.
Bowie Texarkana Pennell 5673 P 5676 P T.
Harrison Marshall E. J. Palmer 6860 M.
Orange Orange Pennell 5608 P.
Van Zandt Grand Saline Reverchon 2112 p. p. M.
14b.
Agalinis tenuifolia macrophylla Benth.
Blake.
Gerardia tenuifolia macrophylla Benth. in Compan.
Bot.
Mag.
1  174.
1836.
St. Louis Jacksonville.
T. Drummond.
Fragment of type labeled St. Louis from Kew Herbarium seen.
Gerardia besseyana Britton in Mem.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 5 295.
1894.
New name for Gerardia tenuifolia macrophylla Benth. not G. macrophylla Nutt.
Benth.
Agalinis tenuifolia macrophylla Benth.
Blake in Rhodora 20 71.
1918.
Moist to dry loam or clay soil in deciduous woodland usually along streams in and near the Ozark and Ouachita hills and the hills of eastcentral Oklahoma.
Ranges from southern Ontario to Minnesota south to northern Alabama and eastern Oklahoma.
Eastward passes into the species and westward into the following variety.
Arkansas.
Cleburne Heber Springs E. J. Palmer 6985 M.
Hempstead Fulton Bush 1065 M U Y.
Nevada Prescott Hollister 65 U.
White Bald Knob Biltm.
Herb.
477 U.
Oklahoma.
Cherokee  Woodhouse H.
Creek Sapulpa.
Bush 421 M.
14c.
Agalinis tenuifolia parviflora Nutt.
Pennell comb.
nov. Gerardia tenuifolia parviflora Nutt. in Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
11.
5 180.
1837. 
In the prairies of the Arkansas above the Verdigris River.
Oklahoma.
T. Nuttall.
Type labeled Ark. seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Moist soil prairies near rivers Great Plains of northern Oklahoma.
Ranges from Michigan and North Dakota to Oklahoma and eastern Colorado.
Eastward intergrades with the preceding variety.
Oklahoma.
Alfalfa Cherokee Outlet Carleton 439 U.
Wagoner 
 prairies above Verdigris River Nuttall A.
15.
Agalinis homalantha Pennell sp.
nov. Gerardia longifolia Nutt. in Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
II.
5 180.
1834.
Hab.
on the banks of the Arkansas.
T. Nuttall.
Type seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Not Agalinis longifolia Raf. 1837.
Annual.
Plant green or purplish tending to blacken in drying.
Stem 47 dm.
tall slender with many ascendingspreading branches scarcely striateangled slightly scabrellous.
Leaves opposite slightly subopposite above spreading hnear entire acuminate those of the stem 2.53 cm.
long 11.5 mm.
wide bracts gradually reduced leaves somewhat scabrous above.
Axillary fascicles strongly developed shorter than the subtending leaves.
Racemes elongated frequently but one flower of pair developed 410 flowered.
Pedicels ascendingspreading slender filiform slightly scabrellous in flower 1020 mm.
long in fruit reaching at least 2027 mm.
long 1.52.5 times the length of the bracts.
Calyxtube 33.5 mm.
long broadly campanuate in flower scarcely ribveined truncate its lobes 11.2 mm.
long lanceolate acuminate apex of tube and lobes within densely puberulent.
Corolla 2327 mm.
long spreading 2125 mm.
wide membranous its tube 1518 mm.
long straight its anterior lobes 89 mm long posterior 34 mm.
long all shghtly rounded to truncate anterior spreading posterior scarcely or not arched flatextended over stamens and style externally pubescent especially distally within slightly pubescent about bases of filaments pubescent in line below posterior sinus lobes all conspicuously cihate rosepink 2 yellow lines and many small diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Filaments flattened posterior 56 mm.
long anterior 78 mm.
long all lanose very densely so toward apex anthercells 33.5 mm.
long lanceolate cuspidate at base very densely lanose with tortuous white hairs on the valvular surface glabrous on the sides.
Style 1214 mm.
long filiformlinear slightly pubescent.
Stigma 1.52 mm.
long.
Capsule not seen.
Type sandy oakwoods along San Antonio and Arkansas Railroad about one mile west of Sheridan Colorado County Texas collected in flower September 21 1913 F. W. Pennell 5522 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Sandy soil post oakwoods Fayette zone of central southeastern Texas northward in crosstimbers to the hills of southern Oklahoma and the Arkansas River certainly rare or local.
Flowering in September.
Oklahoma.
Johnston Tishomingo E. J. Palmer 6494 M.
 Arkansas River Nuttall A.
Texas.
Austin San FeHpe Drummond 217 H Y.
Colorado Sheridan Pennell 5522 C H L M P U Y.
Dallas Oak Cliff Reverchon M.
Harris Houston Hall M.
Waller Hempstead Hall I differs by calyxlobes apparently abnormally Jong 56 mm.
long.
26.
OTOPHYLLA Benth.
Otophylla Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 512.
1846.
Type species Gerardia auriculata Michx.
Leafblades lanceolate to broadly lanceolate upper auricled at base scabrous above.
Spikes Uttle crowded.
Calyxtube over onehalf capsule length retrorsepubescent.
Corolla 2023 mm.
long.
Style pubescent.
Capsule 1013 mm.
long broadly ovate.
Seeds slightly angled.
0. auriculata.
Leaf' blades bipinnatifid segments linear or nearly so nearly glabrous above.
Spikes densely crowded.
Calyxtube less than onehalf capsule length minutely scabrellous to glabrate.
Corolla 2332 mm.
long.
Style glabrous.
Capsule 810 mm.
long ovateoblong.
Seeds sharply angled.
0. densiflora.
1.
Otophylla auriculata Michx.
Small.
Gerardia auriculata Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Am.
2 20.
1803.
In pratis regionisIllinoensis A.
Michaux.
Type not verified but description distinctive.
Otophylla auriculata Michx.
Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1075 1338.
1903.
Corolla rosepink with many rather small purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Flowering in August and September.
Moist to dry prairies old fields apparently native from Michigan to southern Minnesota and northwestern Arkansas introduced in the northeastern states but whether introduced or native in northeastern Texas is uncertain.
 For discussion of generic name see Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 126.
1913 and Torreya 19 21516.
1919.
Arkansas.
N. W.
Ark. Harvey 11 H.
Texas.
Tarrant Benbrook Reverchon 3937 M Y.
2.
Otophylla densiflora Benth.
Small.
Gerardia densiflora Benth. in Compan.
Bot.
Mag.
1206.
1837.
Texas.
Drummond.
Isotype Drummond 218 seen in Herb.
Columbia University.
Otophylla densiflora Benth.
Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1075 1338.
1903.
Dry sterile or stony prairies and bluffs especially calcareous central Oklahoma south to the hills of central Texas eastern Ed wards Plateau.
Ranges northward to central Kansas.
Flowering in August and early September.
Oklahoma.
Alfalfa Cherokee Outlet Carleton 470 I U.
Cleveland   P. J.
White R.
Logan  Carleton 728 O R.
Payne  Olive 142 Y.
Texas.
Bexar Comanche Spring Lindheimer 112 A C H M P U Y.
Blanco Blanco M.
Comal New Braunfels Lindheimer 379 A C H M P U Y.
Dallas Dallas Reverchon 1198 C M P U.
Hood Granbury E. J. Palmer 6556 M.
27.
BUCHNERA Linne.
Buchnera L. Sp.
PI.
630.
1753.
Type species B. americana L. Leaves 39 cm.
long lanceolate to ovatelanceolate relatively coarsely dentate.
Corollalobes 69 mm.
long the tube 223 times the length of the calyx.
Capsule 89 mm.
long oblong.
Stem hirsutepubescent.
1.
B. americana.
Leaves 27 cm.
long prevailingly lanceolateelliptic mostly obtuse entire or the lower slightly dentate.
Corollalobes usually 46 mm.
long the tube mostly 113 times the length of the calyx.
Capsule 56.0 mm.
long ovate.
Stem less pubescent or even glabrate.
2.
B. elongata ohtusa.
1.
Buchnera americana L. Buchnera americana L. I.e.
630.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada.''
Based upon Gron. Fl.
Virg.
74.
1743 typified by Clayton 142 from Virginia.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Corolla purplishblue throughout.
Flowering from June to September and soon ripening fruit.
Sandy or loam soil prairies and barren knolls or open woodland of western Arkansas and eastern and central Oklahoma southward into the Coastal Plain of Louisiana and eastern Texas where leaves are smaller and more entire and the plant probably intergrades with B. elongata ohtusa Pennell.
Ranges from Pennsylvania to southern Ontario and Illinois south to Florida and Texas.
Arkansas.
Sebastian Fort Smith Bigelow U Y.
Oklahoma.
Alfalfa Cherokee Outlet Carleton 477 U.
Bryon Colberts Sheldon Y.
Caddo 
  E. Palmer 221 U Y.
Payne Ingalls Waugh 18 U.
Louisiana.
 Hale Y.
Texas.
Jasper Buna Pennell 5587 P.
2.
Buchnera elongata obtusa Pennell.
Buchnera elongata obtusa Pennell in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
71288 1920.
Type open sandy pineland 12 miles north of Abita Springs St. Tammany Parish Louisiana collected in flower and fruit August 14 1912 F. W. Pennell 4190 in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Corolla purplishblue or violetpurplish throughout.
Flowering from May to October and soon ripening fruit.
Sandy soil longleaf pineland and adjacent coastal prairie of southern Louisiana and southeastern Texas westward to oakwoods of Colorado county Texas.
Ranges eastward in the Coastal Plain to North Carolina.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu Lake Charles Allison 251 U Y.
Jeff Davis Jennings Pennell 10207 L M Y.
Rapides Alexandria Hale Y.
Texas.
Colorado Sheridan Pennell 5521 P Y.
Hardin Silsbee Pennell 5590 P Y.
Waller Hempstead Hall 417 U Y.
Wichita Burkburnett Tharp 604 Y.
28.
SCHWALBEA Linng.
Schwalbea L. Sp.
PI.
606.
1753.
Type species S. americana L. of Virginia.
1.
Schwalbea australis Pennell.
Schwalbea australis Pennell in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
71289.1920.
Type damp pine barrens near Seville Volusia County Florida collected in flower May 10 1900 A. H. Curtiss 6742 in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Sandy soil rather moist Oakland and pineland in central Louisiana.
Ranges through the Coastal Plain from South CaroHna to central Florida and Louisiana.
Flowering in May.
Louisiana.
Rapides Alexandria Hale Y Cocks L.
29.
CASTILLEJA Mutis.
Castilleja Mutis L. f. Suppl.
293.
1781.
Type species C. fissifolia L. f. of Colombia.
Root perennial.
Sepals not expanding distally.
Seeds with heavier reticulations enclosing relatively hexagonal areas.
Stems whitetomentose or lanate.
Sepals of each side distally free.
Posterior lobes of corolla with narrow membranous margins anterior lobes relatively developed over one third length of posterior and distally thin.
Leafblades pinnatifidlobed and like the calyx more or less pubescent.
Corolla 4050 mm.
long.
Sepals attenuate acutish to acute.
Capsule 15 mm.
long.
Stem tomentose.
Bracts and calyx distally jellowish.
1.
C. sessilifiora.
Corolla shorter.
Sepals broader.
Capsule 1013 mm.
long.
Stem appressedlanate.
Corolla 3540 mm.
long its anterior lobes 57 mm.
long yellow and much longer than the slightly thickened green base.
Sepals acute to acuminate.
Stigma about 1 mm.
wide.
Leaves 37 cm.
long.
Bracts and calyx yellowish.
2.
C. labiata.
Corolla 3035 mm.
long.
Seeds 1.51.8 mm.
long brown.
Leaves 58 cm.
long.
Anterior corollalobes 57 mm.
long purple evidently longer than the thickened green base.
Sepals acutish or acute.
Bracts and calyx distally violetpurple.
Stigma nearly 1 mm.
wide.
3.
C. purpurea.
Anterior corollalobes 34 mm.
long pinkish little if at all longer than the thickened green base.
Sepals obtuse.
Bracts and calyx distally orangered.
Stigma about .5.7 mm.
wide 4.
C. lindheimeri.
Corolla 1823 mm.
long.
Seeds 1.2 mm.
long blackishbrown.
Leaves 36 cm.
long.
Bracts and calyx distally lemonyellow.
5.
C. citrina.
Sepals of each side united throughout broadly rounded.
Posterior lobes of corolla with broad membranous margins anterior lobes green thickened nearly throughout and less than one fourth length of posterior.
Leafblades entire.
Stems leaves and calyces densely whitelanate.
Leaves linear the bracts usually trifid.
6.
C. lanata.
Stem leaves and calyces finely pubescent green.
Leaves oblonglanceolate  the bracts broad entire.
7.
C. laiehracteata.
Root annual.
Sepals of each side united throughout expanding distally to the broadly rounded apex.
Seeds with lighter palebrown reticulations enclosing slightly elongated areas.
Bracts and calyx distally red.
Stem loosely pubescent.
Anterior corollalobes developed distally thin yellowish.
Leafblades pinnatifidlobed.
Plant forming a flat basal rosette of leaves which persist until after anthesis.
8.
C. coccinea.
Anterior corollalobes very short thickened green.
Leaf blades entire or occasionally slightly pinnatifidlobed.
Basal rosettes less definitely formed not persisting.
9.
C. indima.
1.
Castilleja sessiliflora Pursh.
Castilleja sessiliflora Pursh Fl.
Am.
Sept. 738.
1814.
In upper Louisiana.
Bradbury v.s.
in Herb.
Bradbury.
Imperfectly described.
Better characterized by Nuttall who knew the plant growing as Euchroma grandiflora Gen. N. Am.
PI.
2 55.
1818.
Corolla yellowishgreen the posterior lip pinkmargined the anterior yellowishwhite and only slightly greenishthickened at base.
Bracts and calyx distinctly yellowish.
Flowering in May and June.
Sandy or rocky plains and bluffs escarpments of the Staked Plains of northwestern Texas Upper Sonoran Zone at altitudes above 1500 meters.
Through the Great Plains from Illinois and Manitoba to Wyoming and northwestern Texas.
Texas.
Hall EstelUne Reverchon 4316 M U Y.
Randall Canyon Pennell 10542 A H M 0.T U Y.
2.
Castilleja labiata Pennell sp.
nov. Root perennial.
Stems several 15 2 dm.
tall arachnoidlanate with close pubescence.
Leaves 37 cm.
long linear to lanceolate slightly 3ribbed trifid with narrow lobes finely cinereous pubescent especially on the lower surface green above paler beneath.
Bracts broader conspicuously trifid probably distally yellowish or greanishyellow.
Sepals 2225 mm.
long those of each side united f length acutish to acuminate puberulent apparently yellowish.
Corolla 3540 mm.
long posterior lip 1012 mm.
long with thin margins anterior 57 mm.
long proximally deepgreen distally flaring evidently yellow or yellowish anterior lobes glandularpubescent posterior with longer glandless hairs.
Stigma about 1 mm.
wide.
Capsule not seen.
Type stony prairie uncommon San Angelo Texas collected in flower May 19 1899 W. L. Bray 353 in United States National Herbarium isotype in Herb.
University of Texas.
I regret that the spring of 1920 had been so dry and consequently so early that on my visit to San Angelo on May 18 and 19 all Castillejas were in fruit and shriveled I failed to find this species but the plant I did find and which appeared to be common proved to be C. citrina below.
Though dishking to base a species of this critical genus on so few collections I think C. labiata must be recognized.
It appears to be a primitive member of the alliance of C. purpurea Nutt.
G. Don connecting that group with C. sessiliflora Pursh.
Texas.
Tom Green San Angelo Bray 353 T U.
Valverde Devil's River Pilsbry A.
3.
Castilleja purpurea Nutt.
G. Don.
Eudiroina purpurea Nutt. in Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
II.
5 180.
1837.
Hab.
On rocks in the hilly prairies of Red River Arkansas Territory.
T. Nuttall Type seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Castilleja purpurea Nutt.
G. Don Gen. Hist.
4 615.
1838.
Rocky prairies and bluffs especially calcareous in the Grand and Black Prairies and adjacent hills southeastern Oklahoma and northeastern Texas also in the prairies of the Verdigris River in northeastern Oklahoma.
Flowering in April and May and soon ripening fruit.
Oklahoma.
Atoka Limestone Gap G. D. Butler 30 U.
McCurtain Idabel Houghton 3681 M.
Rogers Catoosa Bush 1048 M Y.
Texas.
Dallas Dallas Reverchon 714 M P U.
Hood Granbury Eggert M U Y.
Tarrant Texas Christian Univ. Ruth 371 U Y.
4.
Castilleja lindheimeri A.
Gray.
Castilleja lindheimeri A.
Gray Syn.
Fl.
N. Am.
2.
1 298.
1878.
Stony or fertile mountain prairies on the Piedernales and Guadalupe W. Texas.
Lindheimer c. Type not seen but description distinctive.
Corolla whitishgreen the posterior lip with orangered margin the anterior pinkishred and greenthickened at base.
Bracts and calyx distally orangered.
Flowering in April and May and soon ripening fruit.
Gravelly or rocky calcareous soil prairies or hills from Parker and Tom Green or Martin to Hays and Uvalde counties Texas.
Common on the hills of the Edwards Plateau on the Lampasas Plain and in the Coleman and Concho districts.
Lower Sonoran Zone at altitudes of 500 to 2000 feet.
Texas.
Bexar Camp Stanley Jnc Pennell 10414 T Y.
Blanco Blanco E. J. Palmer 13290 M.
Coleman Coleman Reverchon 117 M.
Comal Fischer Store E. J. Palmer 12189 M.
Comanche Comanche Eggert M.
Gillespie Nibo Mt. Jermy 279 M U.
Hays San Marcos Pennell 10431 A C H K M T U Y.
Hood Granbury Eggert M.
Kendall Boerne Pennell 10421 P Y.
Kerr Kerrville Heller 1630 A M U Y Pennell 10364 A H L M T Y 10396 J O S U Y  Laceys Ranch Turtle Creek.

Martin i Stanton Eggert M.
 Martin Stanton prairies n. H. Eggert collected in flower and fruit June 13 1900 M.
Plant 3.5 dm.
tall in fruit and late flower.
Faded and with broken short Medina Hondo Pilsbry A.
Menard Menard E. J. Palmer 11876 bracts yellow M.
Parker  N  M U.
Tom Green San Angelo Reverchon 3932 M U.
Travis Austin Pennell 10437 U Y.
5.
Castilleja citrina Pennell sp.
nov. Root perennial.
Stems several 13 dm.
tall arachnoidlanate with close pubescence.
Leaves 36 cm long narrow 3ribbed trifid with narrow falcate lobes loosely or finely cinereouspubescent pale.
Bracts broader conspicuously trifid distally lemonyellow.
Sepals 1820 mm.
long those of each side united less than one third length all obtuse puberulent distally lemonyellow.
Corolla 1823 mm.
long posterior lip 910 mm.
long deepgreen with pale yellow thin margins anterior 34 mm.
long proximally deep green distally flaring pale yellow all lobes glandular pubescent the posterior with longer hairs.
Stigma about .7 mm.
wide.
Capsule 1012 mm.
long ovoid in outhne brown.
Seeds about 1.21.5 long oblong alveolatereticulate darkbrown or blackish.
Type stony limestone knoll Talpa Coleman County Texas collected in flower and fruit May 20 1920 F. W. Pennell 10516 in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Rocky calcareous bluffs and prairies or low hills prairies of western Oklahoma south to Coleman and Concho regions of central Texas lower Sonoran Zone at altitudes of 1400 to 2400 feet.
Flowering in May and soon ripening fruit.
Oklahoma.
Beckham Doxey observed by Pennell.
Woods Waynoka Stevens M U Whitehorse.
Texas.
Callahan Baird E. J. Palmer 13695 M.
Coleman Talpa Pennell 10516 A H K M O T U Y.
Howard Big Spring Eggert M.
Tom Green San Angelo Pennell 10501 C J Y 10508 A H L M T U Y.
6.
Castilleja lanata A.
Gray.
Castilleja lanata A.
Gray in Torr. Bot.
Mex.
Bound.
118.
1859.
Along and near the Rio Grande from Eagle Pass etc. to El Paso Wright 452 1495 Bigelow Parry etc.
Cotype Wright 1495 seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Bracts and sepals distally red.
Flowering in late March and April.
leaves.
Few fruits developed.
Capsule 1214 mm.
long probably not normal.
No seeds seen.
Inflorescence nearly whole height of plant.
Sepals 20 mm.
long lateral narrowing acutish.
Corolla 2530 mm.
long narrow galea 810 mm.
long lip 3 mm.
long thin distal portion as long as the thickened green basal portion.
From a different formation west of the range of C. lindheimeri A.
Gray but material insufficient for positive identification.
Arid valleys near the Rio Grande in Valverde County Texas.
Extends westward through TransPecos Texas Lower Sonoran zone.
Texas.
Valverde Del Rio Hanson 377 Y E. J. Palmer 11353 M Pilsbry A.
7.
Castilleja latebracteata Pennell sp.
nov. Root perennial.
Stems several or many 24 dm.
tall finely pubescent or above bearing longer hairs some hairs glandtipped.
Leaves B7 cm.
long oblongoblanceolate 3nerved entire roughishpuberulent or pubescent.
Bracts oblong or nearly obtriangular broadly rounded sometimes as wide as long distally violetred.
Sepals 2224 mm.
long those of each side united to apex truncaterounded pubescent distally violetred.
Corolla 2527 mm.
long posterior lip 1112 mm.
long pubescent dorsall'' with broad thin margin anterior about 1 mm.
long incurved.
Stigma .5.7 mm.
wide.
Capsule at least 11 mm.
long.
Type High Bridge of the Pecos Valverde Co. Texas collected in flower April 2728 1903 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia isotype in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Nearly related to C. nervata Eastw. and C. rigida Eastw. both from Chihuahua.
From both it differs in its wide leaves and lesser amount of pubescence also from the former in larger flowers and lack of prominence of the lateral nerves or ribs of the leaf.
Flowering in late April.
Arid valleys near the Rio Grande in Valverde County Texas.
Lower Sonoran Zone.
Known only from original collection.
8.
Castilleja coccinea L. Spreng.
Bartsia coccinea L. Sp.
PI.
602.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Noveboraco Type Clayton 293 is certainly the plant here considered.
Castilleja coccinea L. Spreng. Syst.
Veg.
2 775.
1825.
Corolla yellowishgreen posterior lip yellowishmargined the anterior yellowishwhite with thickened green base.
Bracts and sepals distally scarletred.
Flowering from March to May.
Moist sandy meadows and glades northwestern Arkansas in Coastal Plain in moist pineland of Central Louisiana and on coast prairies of southwestern Louisiana.
To be expected through intervening areas.
Ranges from Maine to Manitoba and Kansas south to Georgia and Louisiana.
Arkansas.
Benton  Harvey 60 M.
Carroll Beaver E. J. Palmer 5590 M.
Louisiana.
Calcasieu Lake Charles Cocks L Welsh E. J. Palmer 7656 M Leaves entire or nearly so apparently approaching C. indivisa Engelm..
Rapides Alexandria Hale L.
9.
Castilleja indivisa Engelm.
Castilleja indivisa Engelm. in Boston Journ.
Nat.
Hist.
5 255.
1845.
284 .
.
.
Prairies from Houston to the Colorado Texas Lindheimer Isotype Lindheimer Fasc.
II. 284 collected in 1844 seen in Herb.
Academy Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Corolla greenish the posterior lip with yellowish thin margins and the anterior conspicuously thickened and green.
Bracts and sepals distally red.
Flowering from March to April and soon ripening fruit.
Sandy loam prairies through the Coastal Plain of middle Texas from Hunt to Harris Bexar and Kleburg counties.
Common on the coast prairie of midcoastal Texas inland west of the pine belt to the black belt  Austroriparian Zone at altitudes under 700 feet .
Texas.
Austin Kenney Pennell 10312 P Y San FeHpe Pennell 10291 M Y  WalHs Pennell 10286 A C H J K L 0 S T U. Y.
Bexar San Antonio Blake Y.
Brazoria Columbia Bush 74 M U Y.
Brazos Bryan E. J. Palmer 7787 M College Station.
Colorado Eagle Lake E. J. Palmer 4929 M.
Comal New Braunfels Lindheimer M.
Dallas Dallas Reverchon A M P U Y.
Dewitt Cuero Howell 297 U.
Fort Bend Richmond Bray 109 T LT Rosenberg.
Harris Houston Hah 422 M U Y Pennell 10253 Y Hockley.
Hunt Commerce Warren 124 M.
Jackson Ganado E. J. Palmer 9222 M.
Kaufman Terrell Reverchon M.
Kleburg Kingsville High 74 M.
McLennan Waco Ricker 3362 U.
Navarro Corsicana Reverchon 3222 M.
Robertson Calvert Merrill 27 Y.
Victoria Victoria Tracy 9165 M P T U Y.
Wharton Hungerford E. J. Palmer 4848 M.
30.
PEDICULARIS Linne.
Pedicularis L. Sp.
PL 607.
1753.
Type species P. palustris L. of Europe.
1.
Pedicularis canadensis L. Pedicularis canadensis L. Mant.
86.
1767.
Habitat in America septentrionaU.
Kalm.
Description distinctive.
Corolla hghtyellow throughout not showing the purple frequently developed in northern plants of this species.
Cf.
Nuttall in Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
5 179.
1834.
Flowering in April and soon ripening fruit.
Sandy soil oakknolls in longleaf pineland and on adjacent coast prairie western Louisiana and eastern Texas.
Ranges from Nova Scotia to Manitoba south to Florida and Texas.
Louisiana.
Calsasieu DeQuincy Pennell 10230 A C H U Y Perkins Pennell 10212 H K L M T U Y Lake Charles Cocks L Vinton.
Natchitoches Natchitoches Cocks L.
Texas.
Jasper 
 30 miles northeast of Beaumont Bray 67 T U.
San Augustine San Augustine Crocket U.
Herbaria in which Specimens seen may be Consulted.
Guideletters in the list of specimens cited with each species refer to the following herbaria.
A  Academy of Natural Sciences Philadelphia Pa. C  Field Museum of Natural History Chicago 111.
H  Gray Herbarium of Harvard University Cambridge Mass.
I  University of IlUnois Urbana 111.
J  Jardin des Plantes Paris France K  Ke'w Gardens Ivew England L  Tulane University New Orleans La.
M  Missouri Botanic Garden St. Louis Mo.
N  University of Notre Dame Notre Dame Ind.
O  Agricultural Experiment Station Stillwater Okla. P  University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pa. R  University of Wyoming Laramie Wyo.
S  Charleston Museum Charleston S. C. T  University of Texas Austin Tex.
U  United States National Herbarium Washington D. C. Y  New York Botanical Garden Bronx Park New York City Collectors whose Specimens are cited in Lists accompanying Species.
Letters following each name denote state from which collector's specimens have been seen A  Arkansas L  Louisiana 0 Oklahoma T Texas.
Allison .Vndrew L.
Butler G. D. 0.
Ball.
C. R. L.
Butler Mrs. J.
T.
Barker C. 0.
Canby W. M. T.
Berlandier J. L. T.
Carleton M. A.
0.
Bigelow J. M. A 0 T.
 Chandler H. P. T.
Biltmore Herbarium A.
Clawson A.
B.
T.
Blake W. P. T.
Clemens J.
T.
Blankinship J. W. 0.
Cocks R. S. L.
Blankinship L. A.
0.
CoviUe F. V. A.
Bray W. L. T.
Crawford E. W. T.
Broadhead G. C. T.
Crocket G. L. T.
Buckley S. B.
T.
Croft M. B.
T.
Bush B. F. A L O T.
Dewey L. H. T.
Diffenderfer W. L. f Dixon R. A.
T.
Drummond Thomas L T.
Eggert Henry A O T.
Emig W. H. 0.
Engelmann George A.
Fisher G. L. T.
Foreman Edward A.
Gregg Josiah L.
Griffith T.
Groth B. H. A.
T.
Hale Josiah L.
Hall Ehhu T.
Hanson H. C. T.
Harvey F. L. A.
Hasse H. E.
.A.
Havard Valery T.
Hayes Sutton T.
Heller A.
A.
 E. G. T.
High M. M. T.
Hildebrandt A. M. T.
Hill R. J.
T.
Hogan George 7.
HoUister M. P. A.
Holstein G. W. T.
Houghton H. W. 0.
Howell A. H. A T.
Hunt E. A.
A.
Jermy Gustav T.
Jermy Julius T.
Joor J. F. L T.
Langlois A.
B.
L.
Larrabee R. N. T.
Lea A. V. T.
Learn C. D. 0.
Leavenworth M. C. A T.
Letterman G. W. A T.
Lewton F. L. T.
Lincecum Gideon T.
Lindheimer Ferdinand T.
Lloyd F. E. L.
Mackensen Bernard T.
Mackenzie K. K. L.
Marcy R. B.
0.
Marlott C. L. T.
Maxon W. R. T.
McAtee W. L. A.
McReynolds A.
B.
0.
MerrUl F. J. H. T.
Mexican Boundary Survey Parry Bigelow Wright  Schott.
Meyer Emanuel T.
Milligan Mrs. J. M. T.
Moseley E. L. L.
Myers S. E. O.
Nash Mrs. M. L. T.
Nealley G. C. T.
Neaves Clara 0.
Nuttall Thomas 0.
Olive E. W. 0.
Oyster J. H. 0.
Pace Lula T.
Palmer Edward 0 T.
Palmer E. J.
A L 0 T.
Pammel L. H. T.
Parry C. C. T.
Peck C. L.
Pennell F. W. A L 0 T.
Pilsbry H. A.
A 0 T.
Pitcher Zina A.
Plank E.N.
ALT.
Pringle C. G. T.
Reverchon Julien 7.
Ricker P. L. T.
Robin C. C. L 12 Romer T.
' Rose J. N. T.
Ruth Albert T.
Schott Arthur T.
Schulz E. D. T.
Seaman W. H. T.
Sheldon C. S. 0.
Shepherd T. M. T.
Smith J. D. L.
Stanfield S. W. T.
Stevens G. W. 0.
Tharp B. C. T.
Thurber George T.
Thuron F. W. T.
Tracy S. M. L T.
Trelease William L.
Tweedy Frank T.
Tyler F. J.
T.
Vinzent T.
Ward L. F. 0 T Warren W. H. T.
Waugh F. A.
0.
Wells B. W. A.
White M. J.
T.
White P. J.
0.
Wniiamson C. S. A T.
Wolf T.
Woodhouse S. W. 0.
Wright Charles T.
Wurzlow E. C. L.
Wurzlow H. T.
York H. H. T.
Young M. S. T.
 Collector of the type of a species from this area but specimens not seen.
2 Traveled in Louisiana and described many plants seen but not known to have collected specimens.
1921 January 18.
The President John Cadwalader A.M. LL.
D. in the Chair.
Eightytwo persons present.
The deaths of Edward J. Nolan Librarian and Recording Secretary Emeritus and Joseph G. Rosengarten were announced.
Dr. Wilham E. Hughes made a communication entitled Across the Peruvian Andes to the Amazon.
No abstract.
The Council reported the appointment by the President of the following Committees On Finance  Effingham B. Morris Chairman George L. Harrison Jr. Morgan Hebard Walter Horstmann and the Treasurer George Vaux Jr. On Publications  Henry Skinner Chairman Milton J. Greenman Witmer Stone Henry A. Pilsbry William J.
Fox.
On Library  Henry Tucker Chairman F. J. Keeley T. Chalkley Palmer Witmer Stone Spencer Trotter.
On Instruction  Henry Skinner Chairman Charles Morris Henry A. Pilsbry James A. G. Rehn.
William Randolph Taylor C. Montague Cooke Stephen Fuguet Samuel Copeland Palmer and Lambert Cadwalader were elected members.
February 15.
The President John Cadwalader A. M. LL.
D. in the Chair.
One hundred and fortyfour persons present.
The deaths of George W. Carpenter and James Gibbons Huneker were announced.
Mr. Arthur H. Fisher made a communication entitled An Animated Photographic Journey through the Philadelphia Zoological Gardens.
No abstract.
John Wagner and Henry Frazer Harris were elected members.
The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the following papers for publication 537 Two Week's Collecting in Yellowstone National Park byAnnette M. Braun.
Some Faunal Remains from the Trias of York County Pennsylvania by H. E. Wanner.
New or Littleknown Craneflies from the Amazonian Region by Charles P. Alexander.
March 15.
The President John Cadwalader A.M. LL.D. in the Chair.
Sixtyfour persons present.
The deaths of John H. McFadden Daniel Baugh and Stewardson Brown were announced.
Mr. James A G. Rehn made a communication entitled The Academy Colombian Expedition of 1920.
No abstract.
Samuel S. Fels was elected a member.
April 19.
The President John Cadwalader A.M. LL.D. in the Chair.
Thirty persons present.
The death of James D. Winsor was announced.
Dr. Henry Skinner made a communication entitled A Collecting Trip to the Sierra La Sal Utah.
No abstract.
Frederick Wistar Morris Jr. was elected a member.
The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the following papers for the Proceedings  Scrophulariaceae of the West Gulf States by Francis W. Pennsll.
Desihcated Granitic Pegmatites by Samuel G. Gordon.
South Ameiican Blattidae from the Museum National d'Historie Naturelle Paris France by Morgan Hebard. 
Revision of W. M. Gabb's Teriary Mollusca of Santo Domingo  by Henry A. Filsbiy. 
November 15.
The President John Cadwalader A.M. LL.D. in the Chair.
Thirtynine persons present.
The deaths of Hiram Milliken Hiller and Miss Emma Walter were announced.
Mr. J. Fletcher Street made a communication entitled A Study of the Wild Bird Life of the New Jersey Coast No abstract.
Nominations for Officers Councillors and members of the Committee on Accounts for the ensuing year were made.
The following were elected members T. Ellis Barnes R. Dale Benson Jr. Mrs. Andrew Alexander Blair Joseph Hall Bodine Mrs. Edward Bok Dr. John B. Carson John D. Carter Wilson Catherwood Charles D. Clark Alexander Brown Coxe Mrs. James H. R Cromwell George K. Crozer Jr. Edwin S. Dixon Jr. Archibald M. L. duPont E. Paul duPont Thomas Langdon Elwyn William Newbold Ely Mrs. Stanley G. Flagg Jr. C. F. Fox Mrs .Eva.
B. Gadsby Thomas S. Gates John Gilbert George L. Harrison Mrs. Charles W. Henry John C. Holinger Wharton Huber Charles F. Jenkins Dr. Victor A. Loeb C. Christopher Iorris Dr. Francis W. Pennell Thomas Robins John Y.
Schell Iiss Hepsey Norris Wells Dr. D. H. Wenrich Dr. Arthur Dewitt Whedon Walter Wheeler.
The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the following papers for the Proceedings The Chromite Deposits of the State Line Serpentines by Samuel G. Gordon.
Notes on Hemibranchiate and Lophobranchiate Fishes by Henry W. Fowler.
Notes on the Radula of the Helicinidae  by H. Burrington Baker.
Plant Indicators of Soil Types by Arthur Pierson Kelley.
Notes on the Mollusks of the Colorado Desert I by S. Stillman Berry.
Some Sharks' Teeth from the California Pliocene by David Starr Jordon.
December 20.
The President John Cadwalader A.M. LL.D. in the Chair.
Twentysix persons present.
Officers Councillors and members of the Committee on Accounts were elected for the ensuing year as follows President John Cadwalader A.M. LL.D.
VicePresidents Edwin G. Conklin Ph.D. Henry Skinner M.D. Sc.D.
Recording Secretary James A. G. Rehn.
Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore Ph.D. Treasurer George Vaux Jr.
Librarian Spencer Trotter M.D.
Curators Witmer Stone A.M. Sc.D.
Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.
D. Henry Tucker M.D.
George Spencer Morris.
Councillors to serve three ... Philip P.
Calvert. Ph.
D. Years F J. Keeley.
Walter Horstmann.
T. Chalkley Palmer.
Councillor to fill unexpired TERM OF George Spencer Morris resigned Morgan Hebard.
Committee on Accounts Charles Morris.
John G. Rothermel.
Samuel N. Rhoads.
Charles S. Stewart M.D.
Walter Horstmann.
Annual Reports were received from the Secretary Corresponding Secretary Librarian Curators Treasurer auditors of the Treasurer's accounts Treasurer of the Manual of Conchology  Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections and from the following sections Biological and Microscopical Entomological Botanical Ornithological Mineralogical and Geological.
The following were elected members Miss Alice 0.
Albertson Dr. Joseph L. T. Appleton Jr. Dr. Clement Biddle Malcolm H. Bissell Mrs. Samuel Chew Clarence M. Clark Mrs. William Dreen Mrs. G. W. C. Drexel Henry S. Drinker Jr. Louis H. Eisenlohr Van Horn Ely Arthur F. Hagar Henry Reed Hatfield Mrs. Frederick Hemsley Mrs. Charles Willing Huber John F. Huneker Dr. Robert H. Hutchison Dr. Peter M. Keating Dr. Edward C. Kirk Gustavus W. Knowles Arthur H. Lea Charles M. Lea Miss Nina Lea Howard W. Lewis M. Albert Linton Miss Caroline Lippincott Mrs. J. Bertram Lippincott Horatio Gates Lloyd Mrs. Horatio Gates Lloyd Malcolm Lloyd Jr. Dr. Edward Lodholz Charles H. Ludington Percy C. Madeira Jr. Mrs. Arthur V. Meigs William R. Mercer Miss Susan S. Miles J. Clark Moore Jr. Arthur E. Newbold Jr. Wilham Peterson Newhall Dr. Ralph Pemberton George L. Pennock John M. Phillips Dr. George Morris Piersol W. S. Pilling Mrs. Horace Miles Potts G. Colesberry Purves Mrs. Evan Randolph Samuel Rea Miss Marion Reilly Dr. David Riesman Mrs. Ernestine M. Schcll Mrs. E. 0.
Shakespeare S. F. Sharpless Miss Caroline Sinkler Alfred G. B.
Steel Hon.
Mayer Sulzberger Nicolas Thouron Dr. B. M. Underhill Daniel B. Wentz Mrs. William D. Winsor Clement B.
Wood Mrs. George Woodward.
Associate Mem er Earl L. Polle Reading Pa..
Junior Members Franklin P6 Cook John T. Emlen Jr. William P. Harrington Charles EHot .
Underdo wn.
542 Part III
