ON A NEW SPECIES OF SPIDER OF THE GENUS DINOPIS FROM THE SOUTHERN UNITED STATES, BY DR. GEO.
MARX.
My collection of Aranese of the U. S. contains, amongst other new and undescribed material, several specimens of a new species of the germs Dinopis Macleay, which were collected some years ago in Florida and Alabama ; they rested in the collection undisturbed and undescribed, but now, in preparing my "Catalogue of the described Aranese of temperate North America," I avail myself of the opportunity to add this peculiar and interesting spider to the list of the described Aranese of our country.
Unfortunately the specimens were collected by friends who were not aware of the importance of the biology of this spider, for this alone would guide us in placing the family Dinopiclae in its correct natural position in regard to the affinity and relationship with other families.
This family has been assigned from time to time to different places, viz., near the Attidse, the Lycosidre, the Uloborida?, etc., according to the respective view of the different authors.
Since Doleschall, however (in Vol.
V. of Acta.
Scient.
Indoneerland.
), has stated of his Dinopis Kollarii that it builds between the trees a free, irregular and wide-meshed web, in the center of which it stands with the two pair of front legs stretched out forwardly, it has been argued of late that the Dinopidae might be placed near the Agalenidre.
The late Dr. W. S. Barnard, who collected one specimen of this species in 1880 in Alabama, stated to me then, that he had caught it on a large horizontal web, which resembled very much that of Agalena, but he could not find a tubular retreat attached to tin 1 web, as is the case with Agalena.
This statement was made, however, from recollection only, but it corresponds with Doleschall's description and I therefore feel myself safe to place the Dinopidae near the Agalenida?.
Dinopis spinosus n. sp.
Cephalothorax ochreous-testaceous with a lighter colored longitudinal median stripe over the cephalic part which appears again on the posterior region of the thoracic part and lines the posterior margin ; the dorsal surface is sparsely provided with very little black and blunt spines which are distributed in irregular rows; the large posterior median eyes are surrounded by a fringe of long reddish-brown hair The mandibles are yellow-testaceous with a dark grayish oblique mottled band and with long reddish-brown dense pubescence at their inner margin, wnile a few little black, blunt spines are irregularly scattered over the front surface Maxillse ami labium of the same color, the latter having the central region lighter colored.
Sternum more brownish-yellow with a very light yellowish longitudinal band over median region.
Abdomen greenishyellow with a very narrow and long longitudinal lancet-shaped spot of a more brownish color; four or five transverse semi-circular (procured) rows of little, black and blunt spines which are placed upon round black spots.
Underside with a dark* grayish longitudinal narrow band which is lined outside by a narrow whitish >tripe.
Legs and palpi greenish-yellow with a few irregular small black spines and black spots, distal ends of each joint somewhat darker.
Cephalothorax elongate and fiat, very nearly twice as long as its broadest width which is between lens II and III and from which it gradually and slightly attenuates posteriorly; cephalic part onehalf as wide as thoracic with parallel lateral sides and rather distinctly separated from it by a shallow impression.
Clypeus between the P. M. eyes slightly cleft.
Anterior Eye row nearly straight, the A. M. eyes standing a trifle higher, and on the sides of a common tubercle, about twice their diameter apart and double as fir from the A. L. eyes which are larger than the A. M. and directed out and downwards.
The eyes of the 2nd row (the P. M. Eyes) are very large and stand close together; the eyes of the 3rd row f P. L.) are placed close to the lateral border, and the base of the pars cephalica ; they are of the same size as the A. L. E. Mandible* a little longer than the length of the clypeus directed more forward than downward, dilated in the middle region, and diverging.
Maxilla: parallel, constricted in the middle, where the palpi are inserted, the upper part with rounded borders, labium a little longer than j the length of the maxilke with broader base slightly attenuating and with a broadened and rounded tip.
Sternum long, narrow-triangular, flat.
Abdomen cylindrical, nearly G times longer than broad, narrower than cephalothorax and truncate in front, in the middle region broadened and elevated by two separate blunt projections which are surmounted by a blunt, rather prominent spine.
In youth the abdomen is much higher in the middle region.
See Plate XI, fig.
b.
The inferior spinnerets much thicker than the superior, two jointed with the second joint much shorter than the first.
Cribellum broad, nearly the width of the abdomen, divided in the middle.
Palpi with prominently thickened patellar and tibial joints and a curved claw, that is provided with three teeth.
Legs long, slender with short close pubescence and few scattered short spines; the base of femur I and II at the inner side suddenly compressed and in that compression a brush of long hair Calamistrum itb of the length of metatarsus IV.
1.
2.
4.
3.
( 'ephalothorax long 5mm.
abdomen 11mm.
Femur I 12mm.
Patella 15 Tibia 10.4 Metatarsus 12 Tarsus 2.5 total 38.4 Femur II 11mm.
Patella ].
5 Tibia 9.6 Metatarsus 10 Tarsus 2.2 total 34.3 Femur III 9mm.
Patel'a 1.3 Tibia 6.2 Metatarsus 6.4 Tarsus 1.2 total 24.1 Femur IV 9,5mm.
Patella 1.5 Tibia 8.5 Metatarsus 8.
Tarsus 14 total 28.9 Explanation of Plate XI.
Fig.
a. Dinopis spinosus Marx, enlarged.
Fig.
b. Cephalothorax from above.
Fig.
c. Cephalothorax from front.
Fie', d. Cephalothorax from the side.
Fig.
e. Cephalothorax from below.
Fig.
f. Tarsal claws of 1st leg.
Fig.
g. Palpal claws.
Fig.
h. Epigynum.
Fig.
i. Spinnerets with cribellum:'" Fig.
k. Abdomen of adult from the side.
Fier.
1.
Abdomen of young from the side.
*& Fig.
m. Metatarsus IV with calamistrum.
344 proceedings of the academy of [1889.
November 5.
The President, Di\ Joseph Leidy, in the chair.
Forty persons present.
The deaths of Mary Jeanes and Henry Winsor, members, were announced.
Note on Plnus Banksiana.
— Mr. J. H. Redfield spoke of the occurrence of a forest of Pinna Banksiana upon Schoodic Peninsula on the coast of Maine in latitude 44° 20'.
This pine is well-known as skirting the northern borders of our territory from Northern Maine to Minnesota, but it is only recently that its occurrence so far south has been noted.
He then gave an account of visits made to the locality by Mr. Edward L. Rand, of Boston, in 1882, and by himself in 1889.
This pine grows in great abundance over a large part of the peninsula, seeming to almost entirely replace the ordinary coniferous growth of that region.
Mr. Redfield had also found a very extensive growth of Corema Conradii in the open rocky glades in the forest of Pinus Banksiana.
Mimicry of the environment in Pterophryne histrio.
— Mr. J. E. Ives stated that his attention had been drawn to the remarkable resemblance of the color-markings of the Frog-fish to the Sargassum weed in which it lives.
This fish is a member of the Pediculati, and shares the sluggish habits common to the group.
On account of the elongation of the carpal bones, and other peculiar modifications, they have poor powers of swimming, their structure being adapted to moving about, mi the bottom, among corals, seaweed, and other low forms of lite, which they closely resemble in color and in many points of outline.
By this resemblance they are concealed both from their enemies and their prey.
The member of the group best known, is the common Fishing-frog, Lophius piscatorius whose remarkable mimicry of its surroundings has been well described by Mr. S. Kent.
In the genus Antennarius, closely related to Pterophryne, the species present wonderful similarity of color to the forms among which they live.
Dr.
Gun t her has paid considerable attention to this genus, and he has also given an excellent figure of Pterophryne histrio, under the name of Antennarius marmoratus?
Pterophryne histrio is found among the floating masses of Sargassum weed in the warm seas.
Here it makes its peculiar nest by binding together the fronds of the seaweed with gelatinous threads, and depositing the eggs throughout the mass.
The ground color of the fish is of a pale yellow, and on this light background are darker 1 Journal des Museum Godeffroy, Heft.
XI, pp.
161-165, Pis.
99-106. irregular brownish bands, closely resembling the branched fronds of the Sargassum weed.
Along the edges of these darker bands, on the bands themselves, and also to a lesser extent upon the rest of the body, are little white specks of various sizes, on an average about that of a pin's head.
On the belly, around the mouth, and on the dorsal spines, are numerous leaf like cutaneous filaments.
Mr. Ives stated that after careful consideration, he had come to the conclusion that the color markings of the fish, and the cutaneous filaments, had been developed in mimicry of the Spirorbis-covered Sargassum weed.
Professor Benjamin Sharp who spent last winter in the West Indies, had informed Mr. Ives that on the Sargassum weed, of which he sawlarge quantities, were invariably scattered great numbers of Spirorbis .shells.
Professor Moseley in " Notes by a Naturalist on the ' Challenger'" (p. 567) speaks of the resemblance in coloration of the forms inhabiting the Sargasso Sea, to the Sargassum weed.
He attributes the white spots of Pterophryne histrio, and also of some shrimps and crabs to mimicry of the patches of Membranipora that encrust the Sargassum weed.
The white spots upon Pterophryne histrio.
however, are much smaller than the patches of Membranipora, and are also much more striking to the eye.
This latter fact appears to be due to the delicate fenestrated character of this Bryozoan.
The patches of Membranipora, also do not occur in the same abundance upon the Sargassum weed as do the Spirorbis shells.
Professor Moseley probably confounded the numerous Spirorbis shells with patches of Membranipora.
As far back as 1757, Peter Osbeck describing this fish which he had met with in the Sargassum weed of the Atlantic Ocean while on a journey to the East Indies, said, with reference to the cutaneous filaments, " probably Providence has clothed it in this leaf-like manner, in order that the predaceous fishes might confound it with the sea-weed, and therefore not exterminate it."
1 *, November 12.
Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair.
Twenty-eight persons present.
Xotes on Orepidula.
— Mr. John Ford exhibited fine suites of Crepidnbi, including C. convexa, Say, C. plana, Say, C. fomicata, Linn, and C glauea, Say, with the view of proving that C. glauca, said by some writers to be the young of C. fomicata, is not only distinct from that species but from all others of the genus.
Special reference to the matter had been suggested by the omission of the name in Dr. Dall's recently published "Catalogue of the Shell-bearing Marine Mollusks of the South Eastern Coast of the 1 Peter Osbeck, Rei>e nach Ostindien und China.
Aus ilem schwedischen iibersetzt von J. G. Georgi Rostock, 17b'5.
p. 4011.
United States," the figure given therein having been taken from Dr. Gould's Invertebrata of Massachusetts, and the name C. glauca replaced by that of C. fornicata.
The speaker was not unaware of the fact that Mr. Tryon at one time entertained a similar opinion regarding the affinity of the two species, but a more recent examination of a large series of shells convinced him that the two forms were specifically distinct.
While it is true that the shells of C. glauca are in a measure allied to those of C. fornicata it is quite as certain that the one can be distinguished from the other by at least three characters, either of which is fixed and prominent enough to constitute a species.
In C. fornicata the following permanent characters may readily be observed : — 1st.
The prominent apex, which is nearly always curved laterally and joined by a shelly growth to the shoulder of the shell.
2nd.
The saucer-like depression of the arch which is the same in all specimens, whether young or old.
3d.
The peculiarly bowed or ogee form of the free edge of the arch.
4th.
The ever-present notch at the junction of the arch with the body of the shell.
5th.
The pear-shaped outlines of the shells.
A careful examination of the shells of C. glauca will show that all of these characters are absent, and that others quite as positive take their place.
The apex of C. glauca is not only less prominent but much less inclined to curve laterally.
It is also more acutely pointed, usually shining and horn-like in appearance, and the tip is always free from contact with the body of the shell.
The free edge of the arch is also straighter than that of ('.
fornicata, while, in place of the notch, which is so marked a feature in the last-named species, there is a slight forward growth of the archplate along and against the wall of the shell.
But the most important character, perhaps, is the elevation of the arch.
This feature is a constant one and sufficient of itself to separate the species from C. fornicata, the arch of which is always depressed.
It may also be said that the two species are wider apart at maturity than at any other stage of growth — although we are told that C. glauca just at this period merges into C. fornicata.
Other differences including that of color and the quoit-like form of the shells, might be indicated, but those already referred to will doubtless satisfy the student that the two species are essentially distinct, November 19.
The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair Twenty-three persons present.
The following' communications were made in connection with the proceedings of the Biological and Microscopical Section : Activity in Donax.
— Dr. Benjamin Sharp described an interesting case of activity in a bivalve studied by him on the beach of the island of Nevis, B. W. I.
Noticing some active little animals in the swash of the breakers, he took them at first sight to be a form of Crustacea.
He had some difficulty in catching them and to his surprise found them to be a species of Donax.
When they wished to flee from a real or supposed cause of danger, they protruded more than half their length from the sand, as the breakers receded.
Those that were not carried into the deeper water on becoming exposed to the air by the retreating waves, buried themselves with astonishing rapidity in the sand and waited for the swash to again flow over them, not protruding themselves until the current returned.
The method of getting up the beach was just the reverse of the former action ; that is, they protruded after the receding water had left them dry, so that the "up-shoot" carried them up the slope.
A.S soon as the water began to recede they anchored themselves and disappeared into the sand rapidly, waiting thus until the approaching wave came to help them again, and so on.
The power of appreciating the shock caused by the breaker on the sand, and also the approach of footsteps, the power of recognizing quickly the direction of the current and how to utilize it in avoiding danger, and the ability to place themselves in a more congenial position on the beach, were indicated by these actions.
Did they depend on the sense of hearing?
These bivalves exist in enormous numbers on the beach, which actually bristled with them when they protruded.
They were of all.
sizes, from exceedingly minute specimens to those a half an inch or more in length.
( 'hange of habit causing change of structure.
— Dr. Benjamin Sharp also made some remarks on the Flicker or Ground Woodpecker, Colaptes auratus, his attention having been called to the subject by an amateur ornithologist.
Air.
Long, now of Nantucket.
It is well-known to ornithologists that the flicker has departed from the typical habits of the woodpecker in a number of ways.
It feeds on insects, especially ants, taken from the ground in preference to the laborious method of excavating them from under the bark of trees or from decaying wood, and in making its nest it selects a hollow tree, rather than make the effort of boring out a new cavity in the solid wood.
The popular name, "Ground Woodpecker," indicates, to a certain extent, the divergence from the woodpecker's habits.
When the bird is examined it will be found that the bill is weaker than is usual in this group of birds, and that it is curved more or Less in different specimens, showing a considerable amount of variation.
If this curve increases it will soon become impossible for the bird to use it as a drill except in soft substances.
The feet in this species are weak when compared with those of the typical woodpecker.
Dr. Sharp held that this deviation from the woodpecker type in the structure of the bird was due to the change of habit ; the change of function preceding and causing the change in structure, and not, as was suggested, that the curve in the bill leads to the change in the habit.
This change in the species could hardly be looked upon as being caused by anything but the direct will or desire of the individual itself, as the surrounding conditions, climate, general character of food, enemies, etc., remained the same, as far as is known.
He concluded by saying that the changes were as yet so slight that the species could hardly be looked upon as degenerate, but was probably tending to become so.
November 26.
Mr. Chakles Morris, in the chair.
Twenty-two persons present.
A paper entitled " Catalogue of the Owls, Strigae, in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia " by Witmer Stone, was presented for publication.
The following were elected members : — James F. Sullivan, Thomas M. Lightfoot, C. D. Lippincott, Minford Levis, M. D., Samuel Stryker Kneass, M. D., and Mrs. Elizabeth S.
Bladen.'
N. M. Romanoff (Grand Duke Nicholas of Russia), was elected a correspondent.
The following was ordered to be printed : —
