SELECTIONS FROM THE LETTERS RECEIVED IN RESPONSE TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE CENTENARY CELEBRATION.
academie royale des sciences, des lettres et des beaux Arts de Belgique.
A l'Academie des Sciences naturelles a, Philadelphie : L'Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux Arts de Belgique est tres sensible au grand honneur que vous lui avez fait en l'invitant a participer au Jubile de l'Academie des Sciences naturelles de Philadelphie.
Nous avons recu d'elle, l'agreable mission de vous adresser ses remerciements et ses chaleureuses felicitations.
Heureuse de rappeler les excellentes relations qu'elle a nouees avec elle depuis pres d'un siecle, l'Academie Royale de Belgique comprend la legitime fierte" avec laquelle l'Academie des Sciences naturelles de Philadelphie doit considerer son histoire durant les cent annes coul6es depuis sa fondation.
II lui suffit d'evoquer les noms des savants dont les nombreuses et importantes publications ont paru dans vos Proceedings, dans votre Journal et, dans vos Transactions of the American Entomological Society, pour apprecier les services que votre illustre Acad^mie a rendus aux sciences naturelles dans ses domaines les plus varies.
Notre Academie s'associe done aux hommages qui seront rendus a votre glorieux passe et aux voeux qui seront formes pour la continuation de votre prosperite.
Puisse votre Academie poursuivre le cours de sa belle et feconde carriere pendant une longue suite d'annees!
C'est le vceu le plus sincere que forme l'Academie Royale de Belgique.
Le Secretaire perptuel de l'Academie, Le Chevalier Edmond Marchal.
Bruxelles le 19 Mars, 1912.
Hi R. ACCADEMIA DI SciENZE, LETTERE ED ARTI IN PADOVA.
Padova, li XXVIII, II, MCMXII.
Amplissimo Viro Academiae Disciplinarum Naturalium Philadelphia?
Praefecto S. : Cum pergratae nobis fuerint litterae tuae humanissimae, quibus nobis benigne invitasti, ut Sollemnia saecularia, quibus Academia Vestra praeclarissima natalem suura centesimum omnium cum plausu prosequitur, Vobiscum ipsi concelebraremus, fieri sane non potest, quin et plurimas tibi gratias agamus et maximam semper gratiam, ut debemus, habeamus.
Cum vero id aegre ferendum sit, quod Academia nostra per unum aliquem nostrorum sociorum Sollemnibus istis faustissimis interesse non possit, hoc quidem profitemur, nos si non corporibus at certe animis adfuturos esse, te, Vir optime atque honoratissime, cunctamque Academiam istam nobilissimam cui tarn digne ipse praxes, bonis omnibus prosequentes, ut ad saluberrima artium liberalium omniumque disciplinarum incrementa et progressus communemque civilis consortii utilitatem omnia Vobis fauste feliciter fortunateque eveniant.
Nunc vero cum omnium collegarum verbis turn nostro nomine te summa observantia colentes valere et salvere iubemus.
Praeses V. Crescini Secretarius A. Medin.
I. R. ACCADEMIA DI SciENZE, LETTERE ED ARTI DEGLI AGIATI ROVERETO.
Illustrissimo Sigr.
Presidente della Accademia di Scienze naturali in Filadelfia: L'Accademia degli Agiati, onorata del gentile invito di intervenire alia commemorazione del centenario della fondazione di codesta illustre Accademia, prega rillustrissimo Sigr.
Presidente a volerla rappresentare in occasione delle feste del centenario, che rammentera l'opera data con efficace costanza al progresso delle scienze, dalla secolare Accademia di Filadelfia.
Da parte nostra auguriamo alia consorella che le gloriose sue tradizioni del passato, valgano a rinsaldare il lavoro e lo studio per il bene universale, nella armonica cooperazione di tutti al fine comune.
Noi gradiremo a suo tempo la relazione officiale della commemorazione medesima; intanto preghiamo l'illustrissimo Sigr.
Presidente e i congressisti a voler gradire i sentimenti dei nostri piil distinti ossequi.
Dall' Aula dell'I.
R. Accademia degli Agiati Rovereto, li 28 Febbraio 1912.
II Presidente: Dr. Probizer.
L'Accademico Segretario : Postinger.
Akademia Umiejetno&ci w Krakowie.
Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: The President and Council of the Cracow Imperial Academy of Sciences beg to offer The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia their sincere thanks for the invitation which they have received to take part in the celebration of its Centenary Anniversary.
They have much pleasure in transmitting to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, kindest wishes and felicitations on behalf of their own institution; and they beg leave to express, on this opportunity, the feelings of keen sympathy and high appreciation which the students of science in Poland entertain for the work of that illustrious American corporation.
St. Tarnowski, President, Ulanowski, General Secretary.
Cracow, March 7th, 1912.
K. Akademie van Wetenschappen te Amsterdam.
The members of the Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen at Amsterdam welcome the opportunity afforded by the celebration of the Centenary of the foundation of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to send their cordial greetings to their colleagues in America.
During the past hundred years The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has contributed generously to the progress of scientific thought and has occupied a distinguished place among the institutions of a country which has rapidly placed itself in the van of scientific research.
The constantly increasing intercourse between the scientific world of America and Europe is an earnest testimony of the growth of the spirit of good will and friendly emulation which stimulates the march of progress in all departments of scientific thought.
It is in this spirit that the members of the Koninklijke Akademie of Amsterdam express the confident hope that The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia will fulfil with equal distinction in the future as in the past its noble mission of enlarging the domain of truth and knowledge.
H. A. Lorentz, President.
J. D. VAN DER WAALS, Secretary.
Amsterdam, March, 1912.
Exquisitely engrossed and illuminated on folio sheet in a satin-lined cylindrical case with gilt clasps.
Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat, Freiburg i. Br.
Freiburg i.
Br., den 8.
Marz 1912.
An die Akademie der Naturwissenschaften von Philadelphia: Prorektor und Senat der Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat Freiburg i. Br.
danken fur die freundliche Einladung zu der Jahrhundertfeier am 19-21.
Marz.
Zu unserem lebhaften Bedauern mussen wir es uns versagen, an der bedeutsamen Veranstaltung durch einen Delegierten vertreten zu sein, doch begleitet unsere Universitat dieses Jubilaum, welches eine an Erfolgen reiche Periode in der Entwickelung der naturwissenschaftlichen Akademie von Philadelphia abschliesst, mit den warmsten Sympathien und ubermittelt der Akademie ihre aufrichtigen Gluckwiinsche.
Der Prorektor Fabricius.
K. Albertus-Universitat zu Konigsberg i Pr.
Der Prorektor der Koniglichen Albertus-Universitat Konigsberg i. Pr.
den 20 Februar, 1912.
Der hochverehrten Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, beehre ich mich im Namen und im Auftrage der Koniglichen Albertus-Universitat zu Konigsberg in Preussen unseren ganz ergebensten Dank fur die gutige Einladung zu dem Sacular-Jubilaum auszusprechen.
Leider ist es nicht moglich, einen Delegierten zu dem hohen Feste zu senden.
Es ist uns aber ein herzliches Bediirfnis, unseren innigen Wi'inschen wenigstens schriftlich Ausdruck zu geben.
Wer nur irgendwie Kenntnis der Naturwissenschaft besitzt, weiss die hohen Verdienste Ihrer Akademie zu wurdigen.
Gleich mehreren preussischen Univesitaten ist Ihre Akademie in schwerer, kriegerischer Zeit gegriindet worden.
Die ersten Mitglieder haben durch diese Stiftung in hervorragender Weise das erhabene Wort betatigt, dass die Pflege der Wissenschaften nicht minder wie der starke Arm des Kriegers zur wahren Bliite eines Staates gehort.
Und dieser Ideale, auf die Forschung gerichtete Sinn ist in Ihrer Akademie mit Treue gepflegt und immer weiter ausgebildet worden.
Von Ihrer Stadt, die schon in ihrem Namen von einem auf die hochste Humanitat gerichteten Streben Zeugnis gibt, ist eine Fiille wissenschaftlicher Erkenntnis ausgegangen; die Forschungen, die Sie in Ihrem Journal und in Ihren Proceedings niedergelegt haben, sind das Gemeingut der gelehrten Welt geworden.
Moge Ihre ruhmreiche Akademie noch viele Jahrhunderte bluhen und der Wissenschaft immer neue und reiche Schiitze bescheeren und dadurch auch die innere unzerstorbare Gemeinsamkeit der Nationen fordern.
Die Albertus-Universitat wird alle Zeit mit Dankbarkeit und herzlicher Sympathie der Academy of Natural Sciences gedenken.
In ausgezeichnetster Verehrung ganz ergebenst.
Krauske.
American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C, March 16, 1912.
The American Association for the Advancement of Science, through its delegates appointed for this purpose, presents to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia its heartiest good wishes on the occasion of the celebration of the Centenary Anniversary of the founding of the Academy.
It further congratulates the Academy on the admirable work it has accomplished and upon its prospect for more good work in the future.
By L. 0.
Howard, Permanent Secretary.
Through Delegates Appointed.
American Association of Economic Entomologists.
Dallas, Texas, March 11, 1912.
Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the invitation of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to the American Association of Economic Entomologists to be represented at the Centenary Anniversary ceremonies soon to be held in Philadelphia.
In behalf of this Association I desire to thank the Academy for the honor of this invitation.
From the beginning of its long and active career The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has fostered and encouraged entomology.
Many of the most prominent contributors to the science in America have been connected with the Academy.
Many others who have played conspicuous parts in American economic entomology have received their inspiration from the work of the Academy.
In fact, there is not an entomologist in the United States who does not, directly or indirectly, owe a debt of gratitude to the Academy.
Doctor L. O. Howard, of Washington, has been requested to represent this Association at the coming ceremonies and to express its good wishes, high appreciation of the uniform good work it has done in the advancement of science, and its hope that this work will continue to grow.
Very respectfully W. D. Hunter, President.
American Microscopical Society.
The James Millikan University, Decatur, Ills., March 15, 1912.
The American Microscopical Society, in common with other similar societies the world over, rejoices in the century of honorable and useful activity of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and extends to you its greetings and congratulations on the completion of one hundred years of productive effort.
We confidently hope that the century upon which you are now entering will be one of eminent success and influence.
T. W. Galloway, Secretary, American Microscopical Society.
The American Museum of Natural History, New York.
To the President and Board of Trustees of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Greeting: The President and Board of Trustees of The American Museum of Natural History, through their delegate, Doctor Frederic A. Lucas, desire to tender to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, their congratulations on the completion of a century of active and earnest work.
In this, the New World, few institutions can claim so long a career as yours, few are so important, none can number among its members a more brilliant galaxy of men of science than that which includes the names of Morton, Wistar, Leidy, and Cope.
May the progress of the Academy be ever upwards, may its career be as prosperous, as vigorous in the future as in the past; may it ever stand, as it has done for an hundred years, for all that is best in the cause of science in America.
Henry Fairfield Osborn, President.
Archer M. Huntington, Secretary.
New York City, March the eighteenth, 1912.
American Philosophical Society.
The American Philosophical Society to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Greeting: The American Philosophical Society presents its heartiest congratulations on this Hundredth Anniversary of the foundation of the Academy.
A kindred society recognizes the high purpose of the founders of the Academy, rejoices in the tenacity with which that purpose has been fulfilled, and bespeaks a long continuation of prosperity and usefulness for it.
With much good will the American Philosophical Society sends representatives to do honor to this Anniversary Celebration.
Given at Philadelphia this nineteenth day of March in the year Nineteen Hundred and Twelve.
William W. Keen, President.
Attest: I. Minis Hays, Secretary.
Beautifully printed on a folio sheet.
Ateneo Veneto.
Venezia, li 23 February, 1912.
Honoured Sir: The Ateneo Veneto gratefully accepts the kind invitation of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, but, being unable to send a special deputy to the celebration of your centenary festivities, we beg your illustrious President to represent our Academy.
A hundred years have lately elapsed since the foundation of the Ateneo Veneto that has always been faithful to its scientific, artistic, and patriotic programme, and it very gladly hails the Hundredth Anniversary of its sister Academy, with hearty wishes for an ever prosperous, active, and fruitful life, like that to which your acts (records) of these hundred years are witness.
With sincere congratulations and best respects, The President, Filippo Nani Mocenigo.
To the Secretary of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
K. BAYERISCHE AKADEMIE DER WlSSENSCHAFTEN.
Miinchen, den 5 Marz 1912.
An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Die K. bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften bedauert, zur Hundertjahrfeier der altesten naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft der Vereinigten Staaten keinen Vertreter schicken zu konnen.
Verknlipfen sie doch mit ihr nicht nur die allgemeinen, volkerverbindenden Interessen der Wissenschaft, sondern auch seit vielen Jahren ein reger, stets mit Freude entgegengenommener Austausch der Gelehrten Schriften.
Die K. bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften begliickwunscht die Academy of Natural Sciences zu der eifrigen Arbeit, die sie in ihren Proceedings und Journal seit langem fur die Wissenschaft leistet und wlinscht ihr eine gedeihliche und kraftige Weiterentwicklung.
Mit ausgezeichneter Hochachtung, Dr. von Heigel, President.
BOTANISCHER VEREIN DER PrOVINZ BRANDENBURG.
Dahlem, den 7 Miirz, 1912.
Der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia dankt der Botanische Verein der Provinz Brandenburg verbindlichst fur die Einladung zur Feier des lOOjahrigen Bestehens der Akademie.
Bei Eintritt eines so seltenen Festes setzen Freunde sowie Vertreter befreundeter Gesellschaften eine Ehre darein im Kreise der feiernden Korperschaft personlich zu erscheinen.
Leider kann jedoch zur Zeit kein Mitglied des botanischen Vereins es ermoglichen, die grosse Entfernung zwischen den Sitzen beider Korperschaften zu iiberwinden und der Akademie an ihrem Ehrentage die Gliickwunsche des Vereins mlindlich darzubringen.
Deshalb bittet der Verein, der seit langen Jahren in den freundschaftlichsten Beziehungen zu der Akademie steht und seine Schriften mit den ihrigen tauscht, ihr durch dieses Schreiben die herzlichsten und aufrichtigsten Wlinsche aussprechen zu diirfen flir ihr weiteres Gedeihen, fiir immer grossere und erfolgreichere Ausdehnung ihrer Arbeiten und Bestrebungen.
Denn wie in der Natur selbst nichts still steht, sondern alles sich standig zu entwickeln strebt, so streben auch die naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaften dauernd danach, sich immer reicher zu entfalten, immer neuen, umfassenderen Aufgaben sich zu widmen, immer hohere Ziele sich zu stecken.
Die von der Akademie seit 100 Jahren geleistete, auf den verschiedensten Gebieten so erfolgreiche Arbeit biirgt dafiir, dass sie in ihrer Bedeutung immer zunehmen, dass sie die wissenschaftliche Welt auch ferner mit vielen wertvollen Leistungen beschenken und bereichern wird.
Der botanische Verein sieht zwar seine Hauptaufgabe darin, seine Heimatprovinz botanisch zu erforschen, er ist sich aber stets bewusst gewesen, dass er diese Aufgabe ohne standige Fiihlung mit der Botanik nicht bios, sondern auch mit der gesamten Naturwissenschaft nicht in befriedigender Weise erfiillen kann.
Deshalb weiss er die weit umfassendere Tatigkeit der Akademie sehr wohl zu schiitzen und zu wiirdigen, und es wird ihm zur freudigen Genugtuung gereichen, wenn er auch in Zukunft aus seiner Beziehungen zu einer so alten und angesehenen Korperschaft Nutzen Ziehen und ihr zeigen darf, wie wertvoll ihm diese alte freundschaftliche Verbindung ist.
Die Akademie zu Philadelphia m6ge wachsen, bliihen und gedeihen.
Der Vorstand des Botanischen Vereins der Provinz Brandenburg J.
A. Emil Koehne.
British Museum of Natural History.
Cromwell Road, London, S. W. The British Museum of Natural History, London, hereby conveys to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia its warmest congratulations on the occasion of the celebration of the Academy's Centenary Anniversary.
The British Museum of Natural History extends to the Academy the most sincere wishes for the future prosperity and well-being of the Academy and its earnest desire that the very friendly relations which have so long existed between the two institutions may be maintained and strengthened as the years go by for their mutual benefit and the cultivation of the natural sciences.
In the regretted absence of a representative the British Museum of Natural History hopes that The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia will accept this assurance of the cordial good will of the Museum.
L. Fletcher, Director.
March 13, 1912.
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences.
February 14, 1912.
Corresponding Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Dear Sir: At a meeting of the Board of Managers of the Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, held Friday evening, February 9, 1912, your courteous invitation to the Society that it should be represented at the One Hundredth Anniversary of the founding of your Academy was presented to the Board and the following resolution was unanimously adopted: Resolved: That this Society extend to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia its most hearty congratulations upon the near approaching Centenary Anniversary of its founding and with such congratulations to express the sincere feeling of respect and appreciation which, in common with all workers in natural science, this Society feels for the splendid and valuable work accomplished by the Academy during the one hundred years of its useful existence and to bespeak for it a further long continuance of its active and honorable life.
By direction of the Board it gives me great pleasure to transmit to you this resolution which now appears upon our minutes.
Very respectfully yours, Henry R. Howland, Superintendent, Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences.
Bureau of Entomology, United States Department of Agriculture.
Washington, D. C, March 16, 1912.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Pa. All the members of the staff of the Bureau of Entomology of the United States Department of Agriculture join in hearty congratulations to the Academy on the occasion of its celebration on its One-hundredth Birthday.
No body of men appreciates more highly the high character of the work done by the Academy than does this force, and none can congratulate the Academy more heartily on its present commanding position in the field of American Science.
For the Bureau, L. O. Howard, Chief.
4* JOURN.
ACAD.
NAT.
SCI.
PHILA., VOL XV The Canadian Institute.
198 College St., Toronto, March 16, 1912.
Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Science of Philadelphia.
Dear Sir: I beg to thank you for your kind invitation to the Canadian Institute to be represented at the Centenary Anniversary of the Academy, and I greatly regret that it is impossible for me or any of my associates to be present with you.
You have had a long and successful career, and the President and Members of the Canadian Institute extend you most hearty greetings, with the hope that your future achievements may not only equal, but may far outdo, your accomplishments in the past.
Yours sincerely, J.
B. Tyrrell, President, Canadian Institute.
Carnegie Institution of Washington.
The Trustees and the Investigators of the Carnegie Institution of Washington extend greetings and congratulations to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of the celebration of its One hundredth Anniversary.
The century of progress achieved by the Academy in the cultivation of the Natural Sciences commands admiration for the devotion of our predecessors, gives confidence in the fruitfulness of the labors of our contemporaries, and warrants sanguine expectations for continued advances by our successors.
Robert S. Woodward, President.
On a beautifully engrossed and illuminated sheet.
The Carnegie Museum (Department of the Carnegie Institute).
Pittsburgh, March 19, 1912.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: On behalf of the Carnegie Museum, which represents at the headwaters of the Ohio the same forms of activity which are represented by The Academy of Natural Sciences upon the banks of the Delaware, we have the honor of extending our sincere congratulations upon your first Centenary, and we desire to express the hope that many centenaries, as fruitful as has been the first, may follow.
We have with pride caused to be carved upon our walls, where all can read it, the name of your own honored and immortal Leidy, for whose achievements we are no less grateful than you.
Geo.
H. Clapp, Chairman of the Committee of the Institute upon the Affairs of the Museum, W. J. Holland, Director.
Beautifully engrossed.
The Catholic University of America.
Office of the Rector, The Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. The Catholic University of America sends its heartiest congratulations to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of the celebration of its first Centenary.
The foundation of the Academy is probably the most important event in the history of American science, since it marks the initial steps in the path of intellectual and material development that has kept ever broadening until it has become one of the world's splendid highways of progress and culture.
We are certain that in the century to come the Academy will continue its noble work of inspiration and encouragement in the vast province of the natural sciences; above all that it will help materially to keep them correlated to all that is truly beautiful and uplifting in the social, political, and religious life of our American mankind.
With best wishes, I remain, Very sincerely yours, Thomas J. Shahan, Rector.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Ceska Akademie CfSARE Frantiska Josefa pro vedy, slovesnost a umeni.
Imperatoris Francisci Josephi Academia Scientiarum, litterarum, artium Bohemica Societati Naturalium Scientiarum Philadelphiensi S. P. D. Centum anni peracti sunt, ex quo nata est celeberrima Societas Vestra.
Per hoc omne temporis spatium sodales Societatis Vestra?
multa et magna strenui laboris, studii doctissimi, acuminis admirandi ediderunt documenta scriptisque egregiis non solum de Vestrse Societatis laude et gloria, sed etiam de universi generis humani litteris et artibus optime meruerunt.
Quapropter iure ac merito memoriam originis Societatis Vestrse hoc anno recolitis et natales eius centesimos per hosce dies sollemniter celebratis.
Cui sollemni cum adesse, id quod magnopere dolemus, non possimus per litteras saltern Vos, viros doctissimos salvere iubemus, vere et ex animo precantes, ut Societati Scientiarum Naturalium Philadelphiensi etiam proximis temporibus cuncta prosperrime eveniant eiusque nomen et gloria per omnes gentes terrasque in dies crescat atque augeatur.
Dabamus Pragae in Bohemia Kal.
Martiis MCMXII.
A. Randa praeses Academise.
C. Vrba Secretarius Academise.
Beautifully illuminated and engrossed on folded sheet.
C. K. Ceska Universita Karlo-Ferdinandova v Praze.
No.
776, Sen. 1911-12.
The Imperial and Royal Czech Charles and Ferdinand University of Prague, the oldest University of Central Europe, sends to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, on the eve of the day on which the Academy will have completed one hundred years of its activity, the most hearty salutations and sincere congratulations.
May the illustrious Academy flourish and prosper through many centuries to the advantage of Science and to the benefit of the American nation and the whole of humanity.
Dated in Prague this Fifth day of March, 1912, in the five hundred and sixtyfourth year from the foundation of the Charles and Ferdinand University.
J. Celakovsky, Rector of the University.
J. Cech, Chief Clerk of the University.
Cincinnati Society of Natural History.
Cincinnati, 0., Feb. 10, 1912.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: The Cincinnati Society of Natural History has received your invitation to be present at the celebration of your Centenary Anniversary.
The Society highly appreciates the honor conferred.
We certainly feel the most profound respect and admiration for your venerable institution, not only because of the illustrious students who have been associated with it, but also because of the high character of the scientific work with which you have enriched the field of natural history in America.
Accept our sincere congratulations.
Chas.
Dury, Secretary.
College of Physicians of Philadelphia.
The College of Physicians of Philadelphia brings greetings to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and presents its congratulations on this the Centenary of its Foundation.
The College is proud of the brilliant record of the Academy in these hundred years, rejoicing that among its members are a number, and some of its most distinguished, who were also Fellows of the College.
Both claim the immortal Leidy, though the College grants that the Academy was the object of his fondest love and reflected his greater glory.
The College hopes that this century of growth which finds the Academy so strong and vigorous may be succeeded by many others full of honor for itself and rich in benefits to all mankind.
Richard A. Cleeman, Delegate from the College of Physicians of Philadelphia.
March 19, 1912.
Engrossed.
Conservatoire et Jardins Botaniques (Herbier Delessert).
La Console, Route de Lausanne, 92, Ville de Geneve, 1 Mars, 1912.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : Monsieur le President et Messieurs: La distance ne nous permet malheureussment pas de reponde a l'aimable invitation que vous nous avez adressee pour le Centenaire de votre Academie.
Nous n'en tenons pas moins a vous dire votre admiration pour les beaux travaux scientifiques executes depuis un siecle au sein de votre Academie, et a vous presenter nos voeux les plus chaleureux pour la brillante continuation de ses efforts.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President et Messieurs, l'expression de notre haute consideration.
Dr. John Briquet, Directeur.
Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft.
Berlin, im Marz 1912.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Der hochverehrten Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia sprechen wir fur die uns ehrende Einladung zur Hundertjahrfeier unseren verbindlichsten Dank aus.
Wenn wir auch nicht in der Lage sind, zu Ihrem Jubelfest einen Vertreter unserer Gesellschaft zu senden, so werden wir doch in den Tagen vom 19. bis 21.
Marz dieses Jahres mit unseren Gedanken bei Ihnen sein und Ihnen unsere herzlichsten Gluckwvinsche widmen.
Die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ist die alteste naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft der Vereinigten Staaten Nordamerikas und sie hat an dem grofsen Aufschwung, den die Naturwissenschaften in dem verflossenen Jahrhundert erlebt haben, einen sehr bedeutenden Anteil gehabt.
Durch die Schaffung einer ausgezeichneten Bibliothek, durch die Begrtindung eines hervorragenden naturwissenschaftlichen Museums, durch die Veroffentlichung bedeutsamer Arbeiten, die seit dem Jahre 1817 im Journal und ausserdem seit 1841 in den Proceedings erschienen sind, sowie durch die Verleihung von Stipendien an junge Gelehrte hat Ihre Gesellschaft die Naturwissenschaften in hohem Grade gefordert.
Indem wir dies dankbar anerkennen, wiinschen wir Ihrer Academy fur das neue Jahrhundert, in das sie nun eintritt, ein kraftiges Bluhen, Wachsen und Gedeihen!
Im Namen der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft zu Berlin, F. Wahnschaffe, Vorsitzender.
Deutscher Naturwissenschaftlich-Medizinischer Verein FUR BoHMEN LOTOS.
Der Deutsch.
Naturwiss.
Medizin.
Verein fur Bohmen AHTOS in Prag sendet der ehrwurdigen Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia anlasslich der hundertsten Wiederkehr ihres Griindungstages, wlirdigend die Verdienste, die sich Dieselbe in dieser Zeit als hervorragende Stiitze und rastlose Pflegerin der Naturwissenschaften erworben hat, die besten Wunsche fur die Zukunft und ein ebenso erfolgreiches Wirken ad aeternum !
Prof. Dr. R. Spitaler, m. p. Doc.
Dr. L. Freund, m. p. Prag, den 5 Marz 1912.
Beautifully printed on an ornamented sheet.
Entomological Society of London.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: On behalf of the Entomological Society of London we offer you sincere congratulations on the completion of one hundred years of distinguished and fruitful labour in the cause of Science, and assure you that we appreciate, and have accepted with gratitude, the honour of being represented at the Conference to which you have invited us.
The Centenary of a great scientific institution cannot but arouse some amount of sympathetic interest in every association of scientific workers, but we feel that, as entomologists, we have special reason to be interested in the fortunes of your Academy, since we understand that for many years our favorite branch of natural science has received from it no small share of valuable encouragement and support; that in 1875 our sister society, first known as The Entomological Society of Philadelphia, received permission to assemble under your hospitable roof; and that subsequently it became incorporated as a Section of the Academy itself.
In all sincerity, and as no mere formal compliment, we are glad to offer you this tribute to our gratitude, respect, and good will, and to express the hope that the future of your Academy may be as useful and as honorable as its past.
Francis David Morice, President Ent.
Soc.
London, Albert Hugh Jones, Jno.
Hartley Durrant, Vice-Presidents, James J. Walker, George Wheeler, Hon.
Secretaries.
London, March 13, 1912.
Engrossed on parchment.
The Entomological Society of Washington, United States National Museum, Washington, D. C, February 19, 1912.
The Academy of Natural Science of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen : In the spirit of admiration and fraternity the Entomological Society of Washington welcomes the opportunity to present its heartiest congratulations to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of the celebration of its one hundred years of activity.
Without the fostering care of the Academy, Thomas Say, the father of American entomology, could never have prepared and published his descriptions.
The share of the Academy in supporting Say in his work of describing American insects in America will always be gratefully remembered by entomologists.
As an entomologist turns the pages of the early volumes of the Academy and sees the names of Say, the two Lecontes, Haldeman, Clemens, Melsheimer, Uhler, Ziegler, Osten Sacken, and Crotch, he recognizes the beneficence of the Academy in providing a medium for publication before there were any entomological journals.
The appearance of these papers under the auspices of the Academy gave them an appreciation abroad that they would not otherwise have enjoyed.
And today, when there are many entomological journals, the pages of the Proceedings of the Academy are freely used for the publication of entomological articles.
The Academy was the first institution in America to offer accommodations for insect collections; and now that its benign influence shelters the priceless collections of the American Entomological Society, it has become one of the few shrines that every entomologist loves to visit, and none more than the members of the Entomological Society of Washington appreciate the entomological usefulness of the Academy, and wish it a long and increasingly successful career.
Very sincerely, A. L. QUAINTANCE, President.
S. A. Rohwer, Corresponding Secretary.
Franklin Institute of the State of Pennsylvania.
The Franklin Institute of the State of Pennsylvania, for the promotion of the Mechanic Arts, to the President, Council, and Members of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: It is with intimate and sincere satisfaction that the President, Officers and Members of the Franklin Institute embrace this opportunity of extending to you their warm congratulations upon the completion of a century of brilliant and useful work in the wide domain of Natural Science.
Organized twelve years later for the promotion of Physical Science and its application in the Arts, and similarly environed, this Institute has shared with you the intelligent and sustained support of the citizens of Philadelphia, and it is from this support, generously continued, that we confidently look forward to even greater successes for you in the future, than those which have marked your splendid past.
Henry Howson, President.
R. B. Owens, Secretary.
Philadelphia, March 19, 1912.
Beautifully engrossed on ornamented sheet.
K. Frederiks Universitet, Kristiania.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : The Royal Frederik University of Christiania, Norway, has the honor to acknowledge receipt of the invitation of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to be represented at the Centenary Anniversary of said Academy on the 19th, 20th, and 21st of March of this year, and to express high appreciation of the courteous attention.
Minister Helmer Bryn, LL.B.
of our University, Norwegian Minister in the United States of America, Washington, D. C, has been chosen as the representative of our University to be present on the aforesaid occasion.
We also take advantage of the opportunity to convey our best wishes for the prosperity and welfare of the venerable Academy of Natural Sciences, and to express our conviction that it will be in the future, as it has been in the past, one of the justly distinguished institutions of Science of the Republic.
Bredo Morgenstierne, Rector.
Ch.
Aug. Orland, Secretary.
Christiania, February 18, 1912.
Printed on folded sheet in a crimson leather ornamented portfolio.
Royal Geographical Society.
1, Savile Row, Burlington Gardens, London, W., February 14, 1912.
To the President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Sir: On my own behalf as President, and on behalf of the Council of the Royal Geographical Society, I beg to offer you our warmest congratulations on the celebration of the Centenary of the foundation of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
It reflects the highest credit on the United States of America that so early in its career as an independent State, an institution should have been established for the pursuit of natural knowledge, and as a centre of culture and enlightenment, in the midst of a population which was naturally strenuous in the development of the material resources of a great country.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia soon achieved and has throughout maintained a position as one of the great scientific societies of the world, and its publications contain many contributions of original value in the various departments of scientific investigation, as well as of practical importance to humanity at large and to America in particular.
Our earnest wish is that the Academy may long continue to carry out with as much success as in the past, its beneficent services to science and to its country.
I have the honour to be, Sir, Yours most sincerely, CURZON OF KEDLESTON, President, Royal Geographical Society.
Geographical Society of Philadelphia.
400 Witherspoon Bldg., Philadelphia, March 1, 1912.
Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Pa. Sir: On behalf of the Council of the Geographical Society of Philadelphia, I beg to present respectful greetings and congratulations on the occasion of the Centenary Celebration of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Recalling the fact that our own society was organized twenty-two years ago under the name of the Geographical Club by officers and members of the Academy, and had its home for years within the walls of your institution we have viewed with filial pride the continued distinction, usefulness, and prosperity of the Academy.
In the hope that the Academy will continue to represent the best traditions of scientific scholarship and achievement in Philadelphia and may extend its field of usefulness in this community, I beg to remain, Sir, Very sincerely yours, Emory R. Johnson, President, Geographical Society of Philadelphia.
K. K. Geographische Gesellschaft, Wien.
Presidium der K. K. Geographischen Gesellschaft in Wien, I., Wollzeile 33.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Das Presidium der k. k. Geographischen Gesellschaft dankt verbindlich fur die freundliche Einladung zur Feier des hundertjahrigen Bestandes der sehr geehrten Akademie und bedauert mitteilen zu miissen, dass leider Niemand aus dem Collegium in der Lage sich befindet, dieser Einladung Folge zu leisten und an dieser erhebenden Feier personlich teilzunehmen.
Das gefertigte Presidium beehrt sich daher die verehrte Akademie zu ihrer hundertjahrigen Jubelfeier schriftlich zu begluckwunschen und dem Wunsche Ausdruck zu geben, dass die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia mit gleichen Erfolgen weiter wirken moge zum Besten der Naturwissenschaf ten !
Der Prasident: Prof. Eugen Oberhummer Der General-Sekretar : Dr. Gallina.
Wien, am 4.
Marx 1912.
Geological Society of America.
The Geological Society of America sends heartiest congratulations to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of its Centennial Celebration.
As we recall the great services rendered by members of the Academy to geology and related branches of science, we are moved to express the hope that this close of the first century is but the beginning of your youth, and that you may long continue to contribute to the advancement of knowledge.
H. L. Fairchild, President, Edmund Otis Hovey, Secretary.
New York, 19 March, 1912.
K. k. Geologische Reichsanstalt, Wien.
Die kaiserliche konigliche Geologische Reichsanstalt begriisst auf das herzlichste die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia zur Feier ihres hundertjahrigen Bestandes und begliickwunscht dieselbe zu der Summe von Arbeit, welche wahrend dieses Zeitraumes geleistet worden ist, in der Hoffnung, dass die Bestrebungen der Akademie in weiterer Zukunft von gleichem Erfolge begleitet sein werden.
Der Direktor, Dr. Emil Tietze.
Wien, im Marz 1912.
Beautifully engrossed on artistically decorated folio sheet.
Geologists' Association of London.
University College, London.
The Geologists' Association of London which has recently celebrated its 50th Anniversary sends its cordial Greetings to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the completion of a hundred years of its successful existence during the course of which its publications have made known to the world numerous and important contributions to every branch of Natural History including Palaeontology in which, as is natural, this Association feels most keenly its indebtedness to the good work which the Academy has done.
John W. Evans, President.
9th March, 1912.
Engrossed on parchment K. Geologische Landesanstalt, Berlin.
Invalidenstrasse 44, Berlin, den 4 Marz 1912.
Die Koniglich Preussische Geologische Landesanstalt begriisst von ganzem Herzen die altehrwiirdige Akademie der Naturwissenschaften zu Philadelphia zur Feier ihres hundertjahrigen Bestehens und bringt ihr dazu die besten Wiinsche dar fur eine weitere erspriessliche Tatigkeit zum Nutzen der gesamten Naturwissenschaft und des von uns besonders gepflegten Zweiges der Geologic In den langen Reihen der von der Akademie veroffentlichten Proceedings und des Journal sind eine ungewohnlich grosse Zahl von Arbeiten aus dem Gebiete der Mineralogie, Geologie und Palaontologie veroffentlicht worden und die scharfsinnigsten Geister, die feinsten Kopfe der nordamerikanischen Gelehrtenrepublik, Manner wie Cope, Leidy, Frazer, Heilprin, Osborn, Genth, und viele andere durfte die Akademie zu den ihren zahlen.
Durch die Griindung einer selbst fur die grossziigigen Verhaltnisse der Union hervorragenden Bibliothek und Sammlung hat die Akademie zur Forderung der Wissenschaft beigetragen und durch die Gewahrung reicher Geldmittel manches wissenschaftliche Unternehmen, manche erfolgreiche Forschungsexpedition in die Wege geleitet.
So konnen auch wir nur mit den grossten Sympathien der Tatigkeit der Akademie im abgelaufenen Jahrhundert gedenken und mit den lebhaftesten Wunschen ihre weitere Entwickelung in der Zukunft begleiten.
Gluckauf.
Der Direktor Beyschlag An die Akademie der Naturwissenschaften zu Philadelphia.
(.
* JOURN.
ACAD.
NAT.
SCI.
l'HILA.
VOL.
XV.
Georg-August-Universitat, Gottingen.
Der Prorektor DER Georg August-Universitat.
Gottingen, den 2.
Marz, 1912.
Der Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia sendet zur Feier ihres 100 Jahr-Bestehens die Georg-August-Universitat in Gottingen ihre ehrerbietigen und herzlichen Gliickwunsche.
Sie gedenkt dabei in aufrichtiger Sympathie der zahlreichen Faden, welche die wissenschaftliche Forschung und Lehre in Nordamerika mit den gleichen Arbeiten in Deutschland verknupfen, und spricht die Hoffnung aus, dass diese Faden durch die Entwicklung des zweiten Jahrhunderts im Leben der Academy nur noch gefestigt werden mochten.
Sie wiinscht der Academy, die an ehrwurdigem Alter an der Spitze aller wissenschaftlichen Korperschaften der United States steht, ein weiteres jugendliches Bliihen und Gedeihen zur Forderung der Wissenschaft, zu deren Dienst sich alle Kulturvolker vereinigt haben.
Voigt.
An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen.
Gottingen, den 6 Marz 1912.
Der hochansehnlichen Academy of Natural Sciences danken wir verbindlichst fiir die Anzeige, dass diese Academie die Jahrhundertfeier ihrer Stiftung begehen wird, und fiir die sehr geschatzte Einladung, mit der sie uns zur Teilnahme an dieser Feier beehrt hat.
Neben die altere Philosophische Gesellschaft in Philadelphia trat vor einem Jahrhundert die Academie fiir Naturwissenschaften mit der bestimmten Aufgabe an der kraftig einsetzenden Arbeit fiir die Erkennung der Naturerscheinungen, die ein einigendes Band der gleichstrebenden Volker wurde, zielbewusst und erfolgreich teilzunehmen.
Und wenige Jahre danach brachte sie den Erfolg solcher Arbeit mit dem ersten Bande ihrer Veroffentlichungen, deren ununterbrochene Reihe durch das Jahrhundert von dem werktatigen Leben der Genossenschaft wissenschaftlicher Manner Zeugnis gegeben hat.
Durch langjahrigen Schriftenaustausch mit ihr verbunden, hat unsere Gesellschaft von dort Belehrung und Anregung erhalten.
Dankbar fiir solche Verbindung bringen wir heute der jubilirenden Akademie zu einer erfolgreichen Zukunft fiir die die Vergangenheit zuverlassige Biirgerschaft bietet, die aufrichtigsten Gliickwiinsche.
Der Vorsitzende Sekretar E. Ehlers.
An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Heidelberger Akademie der Wissenschaften-Stiftung Heinrich Lanz.
Der altehrwiirdigen Akademie der Naturwissenschaften in Philadelphia, welche der erst vor wenigen Jahren durch den Edelsinn eines Badischen Grossindustriellen gegriindeten Heidelberger Akademie der Wissenschaf ten die Ehre erwiesen, sie zu ihren Jubilaumsfestlichkeiten einzuladen, senden wir herzlichen Dank und besten Gliickwunsch.
Moge es Ihrer Akademie, deren hochverehrte Forscher im Laufe des vorigen Jahrhunderts so viel zu dem wunderbaren Emporbliihen der Naturwissenschaften und dem rastlosen Fortschreiten genialer Technik beigetragen haben, auch ferner vergonnt sein, Ihr grosses und in seiner modernen Entwicklung bewundertes Land in enger Verbindung mit den Instituten und gelehrten Gesellschaften Deutschlands, welche in die Pflege der Naturwissenschaften ihren Stolz setzen, an der Entwicklung des Menschengeschlechts ruhmreichen Anteil nehmen zu lassen.
In Verehrung Leo Koenigsberger, geschaftsfuhrender Secretar.
Heidelberg, den 2.
Marz 1912.
Hrvatsko Naravoslovno Drustvo.
Zagreb, dne 22-II 1912.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : We return our best thanks for your kind invitation to your remarkable festival.
We are very sorry for not being able to be witnesses through our representatives of your magnificent festival of civilization and sciences, and therefore we take the liberty in this way to congratulate the Academy and express our hope that the Academy will successfully continue its useful activity for the welfare of mankind and advancement of the international sciences.
Dr. L. Car, President.
IVANU KRMPOTICU, Secretary.
Institut Oceanographique.
Fondation Albert Ier, Prince de Monaco, Monaco, le 29 1 1912.
Monsieur : Je m'empresse de vous accuser reception de l'invitation adress^e au Mus6e oceanographique de Monaco de se faire representer a, la ceremonie du centenaire de The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Je vous prie de vouloir bien transmettre a l'Academie les sinceres remerciements du Musee oceanographique pour l'honneur qui lui est ainsi fait; le Musee regrette de ne pouvoir envoyer a, Philadelphie, a cette occasion, un de ses representants, mais il vous prie de vouloir bien offrir en son nom, a l'Acad6mie, ses meilleurs souhaits de prosperite et ses plus vives felicitations a l'occasion de son centenaire, sans oublier la manifestation du desir de voir continuer dans l'avenir, comme par le passe\ les meilleures relations entre l'Academie et le Musee oceanographique.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur, l'expression de mes sentiments les plus distingue^.
Le Directeur J. Richard.
To the Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Science of Philadelphia.
Institut Pasteur.
25, Rue Dutot, Paris, le 8 Mars 1912.
A Monsieur le President de l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphia.
Monsieur le President: Le Conseil de lTnstitut est tres honore de l'invitation que vous lui adressez de se faire representer a la celebration du centenaire de l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphie.
Je regrette que les exigences de l'enseignement empechent l'un de ses membres de se rendre aux Etats Unis pour porter a votre illustre Compagnie, les felicitations meritees par un siecle de devouement a la Science.
Je me charge de vous exprimer la gratitude qu'il eprouve pour une association qui s'est consacree a la recherche de la verite" avec tant de perseverance, et de profit pour l'humanite, ainsi que les voeux qu'il forme pour la prosperity de votre Academic Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President, l'hommage de ma consideration tres distinguee, Dr. Roux.
Kansas Academy of Science.
Topeka, Kansas.
Corresponding Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
My dear Sir: Through the Kansas Academy of Science I have the honor of receiving an official appointment as delegate to the One-Hundredth Anniversary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
As an old Philadelphian, nothing would give me greater pleasure than to be present at this gathering and to participate in the most worthy celebration.
But recent accumulation of work connected with the University has compelled me, very reluctantly, to abandon the idea of personally attending and to forego the pleasure of listening to the various addresses that will be delivered as part of the proposed celebration.
The Kansas Academy of Science extends to the Academy its hearty congratulations.
I have the honor to express the wishes of our members that this important occasion will be a delightful and happy one.
We trust that the Academy will receive an assurance of even greater support for its future, as its existence has been an inspiration for numerous subordinate organizations in this country.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is looked up to as the Mother-organization.
Sincerely j'ours L. E. Sayre, Dean, School of Pharmacy, University of Kansas, Representing the Kansas Academy of Science.
Kosmos Gesellschaft der Naturfreunde Stuttgart.
Am 24.
Februar 1912.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Sehr geehrte Herren: Erlauben Sie uns, Ihnen zu der Hundertjahrfeier vom 19. bis 21.
Marz d. Jhrs.
unsern herzlichsten Gliickwunsch auszusprechen.
Mit Freuden haben wir das stete Wachsen Ihrer Academy und ihr erf olgreiches Arbeiten, das demselben hohen Zwecke diente, in dessen Dienst auch wir uns gestellt haben, verfolgt.
Wir fugen noch unsern verbindlichsten Dank fur Ihre liebenswiirdige Einladung bei und bedauern nur, dass die Wasserflache des Atlantischen Ozeans uns von Ihnen trennt und es uns unmoglich macht, den Festlichkeiten beizuwohnen.
Dass die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia auch im zweiten Jahrhundert ihres Bestehens weitere schone Erfolge zu verzeichnen habe, das ist unser Wunsch.
Mit Vorziiglicher Hochachtung "Kosmos" Gesellschaft der Naturfreunde, W. Keller, E. Nehmann.
Laboratoire Maritime de Concarneau, Finistere.
Concarneau, le 20 Mars 1912.
Monsieur le President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Cher Monsieur : J'ai l'honneur de vous adresser tous mes remerciements pour l'aimable invitation que vous avez adressee au Laboratoire de Concarneau a l'occasion du centenaire de la fondation de votre illustre Academie et de vous exprimer en meme temps tous mes regrets de ne pouvoir assister, vu la distance qui nous separe, aux ceremonies qui marqueront cet important evenement; mais je me fais un devoir de vous adresser, en meme temps que le temoignage de mon admiration pour les services rendus a la science par votre Institution, l'expression de mes sentiments confraternels et tout devoues a la cause desinteressee pour laquelle nous travaillons tous, et qui me font vivre aujourd'hui de tout coeur avec vous.
En vous priant, Monsieur le President, de faire part a tous vos collaborateurs de mes sentiments de tres haut estime, je vous prie d'agreer personellement l'expression de mes sinceres hommages et de mes distinguees civilits.
Votre entierement devoue Dr. F. Guerin-Ganivet.
Lehigh University.
South Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, March 19, 1912.
Lehigh University tenders hearty congratulations to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the celebration of the One Hundredth Anniversary of the Foundation of the Academy, and all Lehigh men wish long life and increasing success to the Institution that has in this past century of progress done such infinitely great things for the enlightenment and scientific advancement of our people.
By Henry S. Drinker, President, C. L. Thornburg, Secretary.
K. Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher.
Der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia sendet die Kaiserlich Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher zur Feier ihres lOOjahrigen Bestehens herzlichen Gruss.
Vom 19 bis 21 Marz dieses Jahres soil der Tag festlich begangen werden, an dem die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia auf ein Jahrhundert eines ruhmvollen Bestehens zuriickblicken kann.
Die Kaiserlich LeopoldinischCarolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher nimmt der freudigsten Anteil an diesem Ehrentage der altesten naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft der Vereinigten Staaten und sendet ihr dazu die herzlichsten Gluckwunsche.
Seit am 16 April 1812 die sieben Naturforscher G. Troost, N. S. Parmentier, John Shinn, John Speakman.
Jacob Gilliams, Thomas Say, und Camillus MacMahon Mann die Akademie begrundeten, ist sie standig emporgebluht und hat durch ausgezeichnete Mitglieder auf alien Gebieten der Naturwissenschaf ten : der Ethnologie, der vergleichenden Anatomie und Zoologie, der Botanik, der Paleontologie, Mineralogie und Geologie hervorragendes geleistet.
Namen wie Say, Godman, Harlan, Morton, und viele andere, die in Journal und in den Proceedings der Akademie die Fruchte ihrer Forschungen veroffentlichten und ihr Museum und ihre Sammlungen zur hochsten Bliite brachten, werden in der Geschichte der Naturwissenschaften unvergessen bleiben.
Mochte die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia noch viele Jahrhunderte lang bestehen und weiter bliihen und gedeihen.
Der Prasident und das Adjunkten-Kollegium der Kaiserlich LeopoldinischCarolinischen Deutschen Akademie der Naturforscher.
A. Wangerin.
Halle a. S. den 19 Marz 1912.
Finely engrossed.
Km.
Magyar Termeszettudomanyi Tarsulat, Budapest.
VIII, Eszterhazy-Utcza 16 Szam.
71/1912.
The President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Sir: The Royal Hungarian Society of Natural Sciences desires to thank you for the cordial invitation to participate in the festivities on the occasion of the 100th Anniversary of your Academy and regrets that it cannot send representatives to personally express its heartiest congratulations.
Kindly accept the felicitations of our Society for the splendid successes which have attended the efforts of your Academy in the past, and warmest wishes that the Academy may enjoy prosperity in the future.
Yours very truly, Dr. Lengyel Bela, President.
Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia.
To the Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : The Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia feels deeply honoured at the kind invitation extended to it by The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to attend the celebration of its Centenary Anniversary, but regrets to say that, owing to the distance and the shortness of the time available, it will be unable to send any delegate to represent it in person at the said celebration.
The Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia, however, begs to claim its share in the congratulations offered to your distinguished Academy on the attainment of the first centenary of its existence and to tender its tribute to the splendid services rendered by your Academy to the cause of science and scholarship.
This tribute must unfortunately be tendered in writing, owing to the reasons aforesaid, but it is offered in a spirit of the most heartfelt appreciation and esteem for the services your distinguished Academy has rendered to humanity.
The Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia begs to couple its tribute of homage and its message of congratulation with the fervent hope that your distinguished Academy may continue for many a century to be such a bulwark of science and scholarship and foremost outpost of human progress as it has been during the past hundred years.
A. Berzeviczy, President.
Budapest, 10.
March, 1912.
Imp.
Moskofskoie Obshchestvo Iestestvo-Ispytatelei.
Moscou le 20 February, 1912.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: The Imperial Society of Naturalists of Moscow, founded in 1805, has had the pleasure to see the development of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia at the beginning to the present time and is able to fix the great success of the Academy during the past hundred years in cultivation of the natural sciences.
Our Society very much regrets that the great distance makes it impossible to be represented at the celebration of the Centenary Anniversary of the Academy.
On behalf of the Imperial Society of Naturalists of Moscow, I take the opportunity of offering sincere and hearty congratulations, and of expressing our deep appreciation of the great services that the Academy at Philadelphia has rendered to natural sciences during the last hundred years, and our hope that its activity may long continue in the future.
President : Prof. Dr. N. Umoff, Secretaries: Prof. Dr. E. Leyst, V. Deinega.
Imp.
Moskovskij Universitet.
Moscow, February 26, 1912.
No.
756.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Gentlemen : The oldest of the Russian universities, the Imperial University of Moscow, has directed us, in its behalf, to offer to the oldest of American learned institutions for natural sciences, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, most sincere and hearty congratulations on the auspicious occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of its scientific birth.
In the past hundred years the professors, lecturers, and assistants of our University have followed with great interest the valuable records of the old Journal and the Proceedings, containing so many memoirs important to natural sciences not only in America, but in all the civilised world.
Your Proceedings are known and valued wherever natural sciences are cultivated.
Much regret is felt that no member of this University can be present as a Delegate at your celebration, to express in terms befitting the occasion the sentiments of high esteem constantly held by us, and the ardent wishes we have for your success in future in every undertaking.
We most cordially express confident hope that the future of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia will be as brilliant as its past.
Rector M. Lubawskt Vice-Rector Ernst Leyst Pro-Rector A. Elistrator Secretary S. Preobrashensky.
Museum National Francaise d'Histoire Naturelle.
Le Museum National francais d'Histoire Naturelle a, l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphie: L'Assembtee des Professeurs du Museum national d'Histoire naturelle de France adresse toutes ses felicitations a l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphie a l'occasion de son Centenaire.
La jeune Amerique a su se faire une place d'honneur dans la culture des sciences naturelles; elle s'est signalee par des publications qui comptent parmi les plus belles et les plus importantes, et ses Musses ont pris un developpement qui fait l'admiration du Vieux Monde.
L'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphie a pris la plus grande part a ce mouvement.
Elle a toujours et6 unie par des liens d'etroite sympathie avec le Museum d'Histoire naturelle, et les Professeurs du vieil etablisement trois fois centenaire, heritiers d'un passe glorieux, sont heureux d'offrir leurs vceux a leurs Confreres du Nouveau Monde.
Au nom des Professeurs du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de France: Le Directeur, Edmund Perrier.
Noms des Professeurs: Ph.
Van Tieghem Marcellin Boule A. Chauveau L. Joubin A. Arnaud Louis Mangin Stanislas Meunier E. Trouessart A.
La Croix H. LeComte L. E. Bouvier Jean Becquerel L. Maquenne Rene Verneau J. Costantin Louis Roule Louis Lapicque Folded folio sheet in cover with ornamental border and vignettes, beautifully -printed by the Imprimerie Nationale.
's Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie.
Leiden, 17 February, 1912.
The Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie received with the greatest interest the most important information by your Secretary, that your Academy will have completed in March, 1912, one hundred years of active devotion to the cultivation of the Natural Sciences, that for the adequate celebration of its Centenary Anniversary, the Academy will call in convention at its Hall the learned men and institutions of the world its collaborators, and finally that the Academy invites the Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie to be represented at this event which will take place at Philadelphia on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, the nineteenth, twentieth, and twenty-first of March, nineteen hundred and twelve.
Now the high scientific rank occupied by your Academy is plain to all students of Nature and we all are impressed by the amount of scientific work done and provided by its members, so pray to accept of the officers of the Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie at Leiden the most hearty congratulations on the great event, and their best wishes for the prosperity of your adult but not old institution!
May in the year 2012 the then living generation state the great fact that your Academy still is flourishing and in the very strong condition" that it is now in March, 1912.
It is with the greatest regret that we can not come over to follow the kind invitation with which you honored us; our sincere congratulations may represent us at your Centenary Festival!
Vivat, floreat, crescatque Academia Scientiarum Naturalium Philadelphiensis!
F. A. Jentink, Directeur van 's Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie.
To the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Natural History Survey of Minnesota.
The University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, February 28, 1912.
Corresponding Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Dear Sir: I regret that it will be practically impossible for the Zoological Survey of Minnesota to be represented at the celebration of the Centenary Anniversary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on March nineteenth, twentieth, and twenty-first, nineteen hundred twelve.
The natural sciences have been and are being advanced by The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and I feel impelled to congratulate in particular the officers of the Academy and the citizens of Philadelphia on the splendid record of the past and wish the Academy continued prosperity in the new century.
Sincerely yours, Henry F. Nachtrieb, Zoologist of the Geological and Natural History Survey of Minnesota, Professor of Animal Biology and Head of the Department.
Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Gorlitz.
Gorlitz den 18 Marz 1912.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Gorlitz hat aus Ihrer freundlichen Einladung mit grossem Interesse ersehen, dass auch Sie in diesem Jahre auf ein hundertjahriges Wirken im Interesse unserer Naturwissenschaften zuruckblicken.
Indem wir fiir die freundliche Einladung zu diesem Feste, an dem wir uns leider durch kein Mitglied vertreten lassen konnen, danken, wlinschen wir Ihnen viel Gluck und Gedeihen fiir die Zukunft.
Im Namen des Presidiums Dr. Willy Meyer, I. Sekretar.
NATURHISTORISCHE GESELLSCHAFT NtlRNBERG.
Nurnberg, den 7 Marz 1912.
An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Die Naturhistorische Gesellschaft Nurnberg entbietet der Academy of Natural Sciences zu ihrer Jahrhundertfeier die allerherzlichsten Gliickwunsche.
Die verflossenen hundert Jahre waren fiir die Entwicklung der Naturwissenschaften ungemein segensreich und fruchtbringend; die Academy hat durch die Arbeiten ihrer Gelehrten in hohem Masse dazu beigetragen, die Erfahrungen der Wissenschaft in weite Kreise zu tragen.
Seit 56 Jahren stehen unsere beiden Institute in wechselseitigem Verkehr.
Moge der rege Austausch der geistigen Kulturguter, alte und neue Welt eng und freundschaftlich aneinander knupfend, auch in Zukunft das gleiche erhebende Bild zeigen, das die Vergangenheit ausgezeichnet hat.
Fiir die Naturhistorische Gesellschaft, Nurnberg I. Sekretar Professor Dr. Kuspert.
K. k. Naturhistorisches Hofmuseum, Wien.
K. und K. Intendanz des K. K. Naturhistorischen Hofmuseums, Wien, 27.
Februar 1912.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Der ergebenst Gefertigte erlaubt sich, der hochansehnlichen Akademie der Naturwissenschaf ten anlasslich der Feier Ihres Einhundertjahrigen Bestandes im Namen des k. k. naturhistorischen Hofmuseums in Wien die herzlichsten und ergebensten Gluckwunsche darzubringen.
Mit gerechtem Stolze und voller Befriedigung kann die hohe Akademie auf ihre Einhundertjahrige erfolgreiche Tatigkeit auf dem weiten Gebiete der Naturwissenschaf ten zuriickblicken.
Zu Ihren Grtindern und Mitarbeitern zahlen ja die grossten amerikanischen Gelehrten des vergangenen Jahrhunderts, deren Namen unsterblich fortlebt in der Geschichte der Naturwissenschaf ten.
Moge es der hohen Akademie in Philadelphia gegonnt sein, noch viele Jahrhunderte in gleicher segensreicher Weise zu wirken zum Ruhme Ihres grossen Vaterlandes und zur Forderung des Wissens der gesammten gebildeten Welt.
"Vivat, floreat, crescat Academia."
Die Intendanz des k. k. naturhistorischen Hofmuseums bedauert sehr, wegen der Grosse der Entfernung und der ungiinstigen Jahreszeit keinen Delegierten nach Philadelphia zu dieser seltenen, erhebenden Feier entsenden zu konnen.
Dr. Franz Steindachner, Intendant des k. k. naturhistorischen Hofmuseums.
Naturhistorisches Museum zu Hamburg.
Der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, der hochverdienten Pflegerin und Forderin wissenschaftlicher Forschung, sendet zur Feier ihres hundert-jahrigen Bestehens herzlichsten Gluckwunsch.
Das Naturhistorische Museum zu Hamburg, Kraepelin.
Hamburg, den 20 Februar 1912.
A fine specimen of chirography.
7* JOURN.
ACAD.
NAT.
SCI.
PHILA.. VOL.
XV.
Naturhistorisch-medizinischer Verein Heidelberg.
Heidelberg d. 1 Marz 1912.
An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Der Naturhistorisch-medizinische Verein zu Heidelberg bedauert ausserordentlich keinen Vertreter zu Ihrem Feste entsenden zu konnen; aber er beauftragt mich Ihnen seine herzlichsten Gluckwunsche zu iibermitteln.
Er kennt wohl die Bedeutung, welche Ihre ausgezeichnete Academy fur die Ausbreitung und Entwicklung naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntniss in den Vereinigten Staaten gehabt hat; er begliickwunscht Sie zu Ihren grossen Erfolgen und wunscht, dass Sie auch im zweiten Jahrhundert nicht weniger segensreich werden mogen.
In ausgezeichneter Hochachtung und Verehrung der Schriftfiihrer Prof. Dr. Wilhelm Salomon.
Den Naturhistoriske Forening: Kobenhavn.
Feb. 28, 1912.
To the Corresponding Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Sir: On behalf of the Naturhistoriske Forening i Kobenhavn, I wish to express our best thanks for the great honour of being invited to be represented at the celebration of the Centenary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
We deeply regret not to be able to send a delegate at this event; we must confine ourselves to sending our most hearty congratulations on the completion of the first hundred years of successful work in promoting science, and to express the hope that the Academy may continue to grow and flourish for ages to come.
Believe me, Sir, Yours respectfully, Hector F. E. Jungersen, President of Naturhistorisk Forening.
Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Hamburg.
Der Academy of Natural Sciences zu Philadelphia sendet der naturwissenschaftliche Verein in Hamburg in freudiger Anerkennung der Verdienste der Akademie um die Forderung der Naturwissenschaften zu der Feier ihres hundertjahrigen Bestehens am 19, 20, und 21 Marz 1912 seinen aufrichtigsten Gliickwunsch.
Der derzeitige 1.
Vorsitzende Prof. Dr. G. Gurich.
Folded sheet in cover with seal of society.
Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fur Schleswig-Holstein.
An die Akademie der Naturwissenschaften in Philadelphia Hochgeehrte Herren: Zu der bevorstehenden Feier Ihres 100 jahrigen Bestehens beehren wir uns die herzlichsten Gluckwunsche zu iibersenden.
Wenn wir uns es auch versagen miissen, der freundlichst an uns ergangenen Einladung durch Entsendung eines Vertreters zu entsprechen, so wissen wir uns doch eins mit Ihnen in der Freude iiber die bedeutsamen Erfolge Ihres Wirkens und in der Wertschatzung derjenigen Bedeutung, welche innerhalb der gesammten Cultur der Pflege naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse zukommt.
Wir wunschen und hoffen, dass dem Ruhmeskranze, den sich Ihre Akademie durch ernste und fruchtbare hundertjahrige Arbeit verdient hat, ungezahlte neue Blatter fernerhin hinzugeftigt werden.
Hensen, L. Weber.
Kiel, den 10 Marz 1912.
Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fur Steiermark in Graz.
To the Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : Der Naturwissenschaftliche Verein fur Steiermark dankt Ihrer Academy fur die freundliche Einladung zum hundertjahrigen Jubilaum ihrer Grundung.
Durch ein Jahrhundert an der Spitze aller der seither in Amerika entstandenen jiingeren gelehrten Gesellschaften stehend, welche sich die naturwissenschaftliche Erforschung Ihres grossen und machtigen Vaterlandes zur Aufgabe machten, hat die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia in dieser fur die Wissenschaft kurzen Zeit Erfolge erzielt, die mit Recht die Bewunderung der gelehrten Welt erregten.
Unser Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, dem Sie die Ehre erwiesen, ihn zu Ihrer Feier einzuladen, sendet Ihnen die herzlichsten Gluckwunsche fur ein gleich ruhmreiches Wirken in vielen weiteren Jahrhunderten.
Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: The Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging has the honour to acknowledge the receipt of the kind invitation from The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, to be represented at the celebration of its Centenary Anniversary.
The Vereeniging regrets to be obliged to inform the Academy that it will not be able to attend this no doubt very successful meeting.
It therefore forwards by way of this letter its best wishes for the flourishing of the institution, that has already done so exceedingly much for the advancement of the Natural Sciences.
May the Academy in future be able to carry on this noble task with juvenile strength!
P. P. C. Hoek, President, R. Horst, Secretary.
Haarlem _ j^t , 21st February, 1912.
Nederlandsche Entomologische Vereeniging.
Rotterdam, the 7th of February, 1912.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Dear Sirs: Our Society, though greatly honoured by your kind invitation to send a representative to the celebration of the Centenary Anniversary of your Academy, regrets much to be unable to accept it, as the travel to Philadelphia is too far.
The Board of our Society takes the liberty to offer you the best wishes for the future prosperity of your Academy and hopes that it will be able to continue with the same devotion and success the scientific labor, which is highly appreciated also by the members of our Society.
I remain, Dear Sirs, Yours faithfully, D. van der Hoop, Secretary.
New York Academy of Sciences.
The New York Academy of Sciences sends most hearty greetings to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of the latter's celebration of the One Hundredth Anniversary of her founding.
Next younger in age among such institutions in the country, the New York Academy feels an especial right to congratulate her sister Academy upon rounding out the first century of an existence that has been honorable for work accomplished along several lines, but particularly in conchology and geology.
Now that there are so many centers of scientific work and thought in America there is danger of overlooking the claims to recognition of the great original source of inspiration.
May Philadelphia maintain for centuries to come the front rank in this regard that has been hers for more than the century now closing.
Emerson McMillan, President.
Edmund Otis Hovey, Recording Secretary.
Beautifully engrossed on parchment with illuminated initials.
Northwestern University, Evanston-Chicago.
Northwestern University offers congratulations to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the arrival of its One Hundredth Anniversary, and takes pleasure in paying a tribute to its helpful and uplifting influence on the progress of the natural sciences.
Through its museum exhibits and public lectures, as well as through the personal influence of its distinguished members, the Academy has promoted a widespread interest in the natural sciences.
At the same time, it has stimulated research by providing means of publication for many notable scientific investigations that have been produced by its members and correspondents.
This activity establishes between the Academy and the Universities a bond of sympathy, based on similarity of aims and purposes in promoting the spread of education among the people, and in offering encouragement to gifted investigators.
In recognition of this high service to the cause of scientific learning, Northwestern University not only offers felicitations for past achievements, but also wishes for The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia continued prosperity and success in the prosecution of its noble work.
Chicago, Illinois, March fifteenth, nineteen hundred and twelve.
A. W. Harris, President.
Philadelphia College of Pharmacy.
145 North 10th St., Philadelphia, March 14, 1912.
Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Dear Sir: The Philadelphia College of Pharmacy, which is approaching its Ninety-second Anniversary, desires to extend to your Academy her heartiest greetings upon this felicitous occasion of its Centenary Anniversary.
The College recalls with pride the fact that the first President of your Organization, Gerard Troost, M.D., a man highly esteemed by all, afterwards became associated with her as Professor of Chemistry.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the Philadelphia College' of Pharmacy have been so closely allied during the lifetime of the latter, that she feels it a great honor to have this opportunity of extending to the older sister institution her heartiest good wishes for a continuance of such an honored career.
And it is her hope that the most excellent work which the Academy has so nobly and heroically carried on during the past one hundred years may continue through future centuries.
Very truly, Attest: Howard B. French, President.
C. A. Weidemann, M.D., Secretary.
CIV The Philadelphia Pathological Society.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1812-1912, Greeting!
The Philadelphia Pathological Society extends to The Academy of Natural Sciences cordial greetings upon the completion of one hundred years of active, productive life, congratulating the Academy upon its notable record of past achievements, and earnestly wishing for it long continuance of life, prosperity and success.
By Delegates: Allen J. Smith, President, David Riesman, Past President, W. M. L. Coplin, Past President.
Philadelphia, Pa., March 19, 1912.
Beautifully engrossed.
Philadelphia High School for Girls.
Greetings of the Philadelphia High School for Girls to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia (1812, March 21, 1912).
All institutions whose object is the pursuit of exact knowledge rejoice with The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on this the celebration of the One hundredth Anniversary of its foundation.
The Philadelphia High School for Girls is glad at this time to extend its sincere congratulations and to have the opportunity of expressing its deep sense of obligation to the Academy.
Situated as the school is, almost in the shadow of the walls of this famous institution, it has found the Academy a helpful neighbor.
Teachers and pupils have derived inspiration from its unique collections, from the clear and comprehensive lectures arranged to meet the special interests of the school, and from the willing aid received many times in the effort to solve difficult problems connected with the work.
May the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia flourish in the future as it has in the past, may it continue in its honest devotion to the development of science, in its attainment of end for the betterment of mankind, in its worldwide reputation for members of sterling qualities and of great achievement.
J. Eugene Baker, Principal, Katherine E. Pinncheon, Assistant to Principal, Ida A. Keller, Head of Department of Biology.
PONTIFICIA ACCADEMIA ROMANA DEI NUOVI LlNCEI, ROMA.
Palazzo della Cancelleria, Roma, 13 Febbraio, 1912.
Monsieur le President : J'ai l'honneur de vous exprimer au nom de l'Academie Pontificale des " Nuovi Lincei" les sentiments de la plus vive et fraternelle sympathie pour votre honorable Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia a l'occasion des fetes centenaires qui auront lieu le mois prochain a Philadelphie.
Nous souhaitons a votre glorieuse Institution un avenir digne du pass6, pour le plus grand avantage des sciences que vous cultivez si noblement, et dont vous vous intressez si largement du progress.
Nous formons en meme temps les voeux les plus sinceres pour la prosperity de tous les Academiciens.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President, l'expression de ma haute consideration.
Dr. Pierre de Sanctis, Secretaire.
M. le President de la Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Die Physikalisch-oekonomische Gesellschaft zu Konigsberg i. Pr.
Konigsberg i.
Pr., 6 Marz 1912.
An der Centenarfeier der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia nimmt die Physikalisch-oekonomische Gesellschaft zu Konigsberg i. Pr.
der es leider nicht moglich ist, einen Vertreter iiber den Ocean zu entsenden, herzlichen Anteil und erlaubt sich, wenigstens schriftlich ihre besten Gluckwunsche darzubringen.
Wer die mit 1817 beginnende Reihe der Veroffentlichungen der Akademie einsieht, stosst auf eine stattliche Zahl iiber Amerika hinaus bekannt gewordener Namen, deren Arbeiten einen dauernden Gewinn fiir die Wissenschaft darstellen.
Wie aber zu einem Gebaude ausser den Grundund Eckpfeilern viele grossere und kleinere Bausteine notwendig sind und ohne solche ein Bau nicht errichtet werden kann, so verhalt es sich auch mit der Wissenschaft, die ohne oft minutiose Detailarbeit nicht bestehen kann.
Auch hieran hat es der Academy nicht gefehlt, und so bilden ihre bisherigen Leistungen das beste Prognosticon fiir die Zukunft.
Die Physikalisch-oekonomische Gesellschaft Der Schriftfuhrer M. Luhe Der President M. Braun.
Roemer Museum.
Hildesheim, den 15.
2.
12.
Sehr geehrter Herr: Fiir die liebenswiirdige Einladung zu dem Hundertjahrigen Stiftungsfeste der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia sagt der Vorstand des RoemerMuseums ehrerbietig seinen Dank.
Leider ist er nicht in der Lage einen Delegierten zu senden, um seine herzlichen Gluckwunsche zu uberbringen.
Er hat mich beauftragt, diese Gluckwunsche hiermit Ihnen aus vollem Herzen darzubringen : Vivat!
Floreat!
Crescat!
Academia Scientia?
Naturalis Philadelphia!
In seterum!
Mit ausgezeichneter Hochachtung Prof. Dr. R. Hauthal.
Royal Society of Edinburgh.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: The Royal Society of Edinburgh takes with great pleasure the opportunity of expressing to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, its congratulations upon the celebration of the Academy's Centenary.
Sharing as it does the proud duty of advancing and diffusing knowledge, the Society recognises the debt due to those who, under the aegis of the Academy, have so zealously and so successfully laboured with the same end in view, to the benefit not of one country only but of mankind.
The Society feels it a peculiar pleasure to convey upon so auspicious an occasion, by the hands of its personal representatives, these sincere congratulations to an Academy of a country with which Scotland has had such long and intimate connections, and with cordial greetings expresses its confident hope for a continuance of the Academy's distinguished career.
Wm.
Turner, (Seal) President, C. G. Knott, Secretary.
Edinburgh, March, 1912.
Beautifully printed on folio sheet Russkoje Entomologiceskoje Obscestvo.
To the President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
On the occasion of the Centennial Jubilee Celebration of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia the Russian Entomological Society welcomes the remembrance that the Academy has always paid much attention to entomology.
In order to appreciate the enormous significance of the part the Academy has played in the study of the branch of zoology which is so dear to our Entomological Society, it is sufficient to quote the names of the following famous savants, whose works appeared in the publications of the Academy: B. Clemens, E. T. Cresson, S. S. Haldeman, N. M. Hentz, G. H. Horn, J. Leconte, J. L. Leconte, F. E. Melsheimer, Miss M. Morris, W. F. Rogers, Baron R. Von Osten-Sacken, Th.
Say, Ph.
R. Uhler, D. Ziegler, and many others.
The Russian Entomological Society presents its heartiest congratulations on the Centennial Anniversary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and wishes that it may continue in future its useful work and to flourish for many years to come.
P. Semenov-Tjan-Shanskij, President.
Andrea Semenov-Tjan-Shanskij, Vice President.
G. Jacobson, Secretary.
O. John, Corresponding Secretary.
K. Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften.
Leipzig, den 8 Marz 1912.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia spreche ich meinen warmen und ehrerbietigen Dank fur die Einladung zur Teilnahme an der Feier des 100jahrigen Bestehens aus.
Wenn ich auch nicht in der Lage bin, personlich an der Feier teilzunehmen, so mochte ich doch nicht verfehlen, der Akademie meinen aufrichtigen Gliickwunsch darzubringen, und die Hoffnung auszusprechen, dass von ihr auch weiterhin segensreiche wissenschaftliche Anregungen ausgehen mochten.
Wenn ich an mein Spezialgebiet, die Zoologie, denke, so darf ich wohl darauf hinweisen, dass der 1817 erschienene erste Band des Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia eine Reihe ausgezeichneter zoologischer Abhandlungen enthalt, von denen die erste keinen geringeren als LeSueur zum Verfasser hat.
Seit jener Zeit hat die Akademie eine solche Fiille ausgezeichneter Untersuchungen und hervorragender Entdeckungen auf dem Gebiete der beschreibenden Naturwissenschaften veroffentlicht, dass sie schon lange einen Ehrenplatz unter den wissenschaftlichen Vereinigungen der neuen und alten Welt einnimmt.
Vivat, crescat, floreat!
Der Sekretar der mathem.-physischen Klasse: Carl Chun.
K. Sachsische Gesellschaft deb Wissenschaften.
Leipzig, den 9.
Marz 1912.
Die Koniglich Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften spricht der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ihren warmen Gliickwunsch aus Anlass der lOOjahrigen Jubelfeier aus.
Unter den wissenschaftlichen Vereinigungen Amerikas ist sie nicht nur eine der altesten, sondern auch bis heute eine der angesehensten, deren segensreiche Tatigkeit auf das geistige Leben der Vereinigten Staaten und des Auslandes einen deutlich erkennbaren Einnuss ausiibte.
Durchmustert man die Liste ihrer Mitglieder, so findet man in ihr die stolzesten Namen amerikanischer Gelehrter: begreiflich, dass man im Auslande es sich zur besonderen Ehre anrechnete, zu der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia personliche Beziehungen zu gewinnen.
Seit dem Jahre 1817, in dem der erste Band des Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia erschien, hat die Akademie eine solche Fiille bedeutsamer Arbeiten und Entdeckungen veroffentlicht, dass ihre Publikation an innerem Gehalt mit den ehrwurdigsten Zeitschriften der alten Welt wetteifern kann .
Ihr Leitmotiv waren die Worte von Montagu : " By withholding individual information general knowledge is suspended.
Science is materially advanced by the promulgation of the sentiments of individuals, and poor indeed must be the resources of those from whom nothing is to be learned."
So erkennen wir denn mit der gesamten wissenschaftlichen Welt dankbar an, dass der vor 100 Jahren in bescheidener Form gepflanzte Baum wissenschaftlicher Erkenntnis herrliche Friichte getragen hat, und wtinschen der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia auch weiterhin ein segensreiches Gedeihen.
Die Konigl.
Sachs.
Gesellschaft d. Wissenschaften.
Der Sekretar d. mathem.-phys.
Klasse: Carl Chun Der Sekretar d. phil.-hist.
Klasse: Ernst Windisch.
SCHWEIZERISCHE NaTURFORSCHENDE GESELLSCHAFT.
Geneve, le 13 Mars 1912.
La Societe Helv6tique des Sciences Naturelles a The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Monsieur le President et tres Honore* Confrere: Par suite d'une erreur de l'Administration des Postes, l'invitation que vous nous avez fait l'honneur de nous adresser pour nous faire representer aux belles ceremonies par lesquelles vous celebrez le Centenaire de votre savante society, nous parvient trop tard pour que nous puissions y prendre part.
Nous tenons neanmoins a, venir vous exprimer les sentiments de vive admiration que nous eprouvons a la pensee que votre savante Compagnie puisse celebrer cette annee, le centieme anniversaire de sa fondation, et nous venons vous prier d'agreer tous les voeux les plus sinceres que nous formons pour sa prosperity dans le second siecle d'activite* qui s'ouvre devant elle.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President et tres Honore Confrere, l'assurance de notre consideration la plus distinguee.
Pour Le Comite Central Le President Ed.
Sarasin La Secretaire Ph.
A. Guye.
Smithsonian Institution.
The Smithsonian Institution sends greetings and congratulations to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of the One hunredth Anniversary of its Foundation.
Recognizing the importance of the influence which, for a century, the Academy has exerted on the development of American science and the value of the contributions which it has made to natural history, the Institution desires to express the hope that its beneficent activities may long continue.
Charles Walcott, Secretary.
March the Nineteenth, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Twelve.
Exquisitely engrossed and illuminated.
La Sociedad Aragonesa de Ciencias Naturales.
La Sociedad Aragonesa de Ciencias Naturales en el primer decenio de su existencia se congratula con la Academia de Ciencias Naturales de Filadelphia en su Centenario 1812-1912.
Seculari Academic Scientiarum Philadelphian^; Gratulatio.
Ferte, leves venti, mea munera, ferte salutem Ad Philadelphinos fluctibus oceani.
En celebrat primum sapiens Academia seclum.
Gaude, dumque volent tempora progredere.
Colegio de Salvador Longin Navas, S.J.
Csesarangustse, Febr.
1912.
Sociedad Malaguena de Ciencias.
Malaga, Febrero 1912.
The Secretary the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: La Sociedad Malaguena de Ciencias tributa a su homologa de Philadelphia felicitation entusiasta al conmemorar esta su primer Centenario de brillante existencia.
Nos honrariamos concurriendo al certamen que vais a celebrar con tan fausto motiva, mas ya que ello no nos sea posible, recibid nuestro saludo sincero y nuestros fervientes votos por vuestra prosperidad creciente para bien de la Ciencia y de la Humanidad.
Al trasmitiros estos acuerdos os damos expresivas gracias por vuestra invitaci6n y nos ofrecemos vuestros afectuosos colegas.
El Secretario, El Presidente, Z. Rodriques Spiteri.
* JOURN.
ACAD.
NAT.
SCI PHILA.. VOL.
XV Modena, 28 Febbrajo 1912.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Un secolo di vita scientifica hanno dato alia Vostra Accademia tutto lo splendore che molte delle vostre Consorelle hanno raggiunto durante un tempo piu che doppiamente secolare; e accanto a Voi e per la vostra influenza esercitata .in mezzo alle attive e giovani popolazioni dell' America del Nord, vi sono cresciuti attorno sodalizi e istituzioni scientifiche largamente fruttuose.
E con la piu sentita gioja intelletuale che noi prendiamo parte alle vostre feste giubilari; il tempo e an che la distanza non permettono alia Societa dei Naturalisti e Matematici di Modena di inviare un rappresentante alle vostre adunanze solenni; ma lontani, saremo con Voi in quei giorni con l'animo nostro, e vi auguriamo, non senza un certo egoismo scientifico che ormai i lavori dei singoli sulla terra sono a benefizio di tutti, una indefettibile vita per la grandezza del vostro Paese, per il benessere dell'umanita.
il Presidente Dante Pantanelli il Segretario Giacomo G. Bassoli.
Societa Zoogical Italiana.
Roma, li 23 Febbraio, 1912.
Illmo Signor Presidente: Riceviamo con piacere il cortese annunzio della prossima celebrazione del Centenario di codesta illustre e benemerita Accademia scientifica.
Dispiacenti di non poter intervenire personalmente alia festa commemorativa, Vi preghiamo, illustrissimo Signor Presidente, di voler rappresentare la nostra Societa Zoologica Italiana.
Vogliate accettare, da parte di tutti i membri di questa Societa, i piu caldi e sinceri auguri affinche il vostro Istituto possa continuare per l'awenire nel suo nobile compito, cosi degnamente e felicemente adempito finora, di giovare al progresso delle scienze naturali, che e anche progresso della civilta dei popoli.
Con devozione e stima II Presidente Prof. Antonio Carruccio II Segretario Prof. Giuseppe Lepri All' ill. Sig.
Presidente dell'Accademia di Scienze Naturali in Filadelfia.
Regia Societas Scientiarum Bohemica.
Prag am 5 Marz 1912.
An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Die Koniglich Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften in Prag hat mit innigstem Dank die Einladung zu Festtagen empfangen, an welchen die Academy of Natural Sciences ihr hundertjahriges Bestehen zu feiern gedenkt, bedauert jedoch, dass es ihr nicht moglich ist, ihren Vertreter zur Feier selbst entsenden zu konnen.
Die Gesellschaft schliesst sich jedoch mit Freuden alien jenen an, die nah und fern in diesen Tagen des ruhmreichen, dem Fortschritte der Wissenschaft gewidmeten hundertjahrigen Wirkens der Academy mit Dank gedenken und entbietet der Academy ihre schlichten, aber aufrichtigen Worte der Bewunderung fiir all die bisher der Wissenschaft geleisteten Dienste und die besten Gliickwiinsche fiir ihre Fortsetzung in den kommenden Jahrhunderten.
Academia scientiarum naturalium Philadelphiensis vivat, floreat, crescat!
Fiir das Presidium der Koniglich Bohmischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften K. Vrba Prasident, Josef Zubaty General-Sekretar.
SOCIETE BOTANIQUE DE FRANCE.
Rue de Grenelle, 84, a Paris (VII.
e ) Paris, le 4 Mars 1912.
A Monsieur le President et a Messieurs les Membres de l'Academie des Sciences naturelles de Philadelphie : Messieurs : Au moment ou votre savante Academie celebre le 100 e anniversaire de sa fondation, la Soci^te Botanique de France tient a vous exprimer ses plus vives felicitations.
Vos importants travaux ont assure a l'Academie des Sciences naturelles de Philadelphie une place d'honneur parmi les socieies savantes d'Amenque.
Nous formons le voeu que votre activite scientifique, tou jours en eveil, continue a enrichir l'histoire naturelle d'importantes decouvertes qui contribueront heureusement a illustrer a la fois, votre Academie et la science americaine.
Le President de la Societe Botanique de France, R. Zeiller.
Southern California Academy of Sciences.
Los Angeles.
The Southern California Academy of Science gratefully acknowledges the invitation to attend the celebration of the One-hundredth year of the establishment of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
We extend to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia our most hearty congratulations for its phenomenal success, and for the many discoveries in the several branches of science which have been made through its encouragement and liberality, and which have tended to the advancement of the human race during the last one hundred years.
We, upon this distant Pacific Coast, a very young sister Academy, born but twenty-one years ago, are glad to be able to place upon record, at this auspicious event, our appreciation of the work of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the good that has resulted from its labors.
W. A. Spalding, President.
Holdridge 0.
Collins, Secretary.
State of California ; ss.
County of Los Angeles } I, Holdridge Ozro Collins, Secretary of the Southern California Academy of Sciences, do hereby certify that at the regular meeting of said Academy, held in the City of Los Angeles, County and State aforesaid, on the 29th day of February, 1912, the foregoing Memorial was unanimously adopted.
Witness my hand and the Seal of said Academy at said City of Los Angeles, this fourth day of March, 1912.
Holdridge Ozro Collins, Secretary.
Stockholms Hogskola.
To the President of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: The University of Stockholm Stockholm's Hogskola wishes to send to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on its Centenary Anniversary, the most hearty congratulations on the admirable evolution of Natural Science in North America, which has taken place during the past seculum, and in which your Academy has taken such an active part.
Having unfortunately no opportunity of accepting your kind invitation to send a representative, we must confine ourselves to send you in this way our very best wishes.
On behalf of the Senate of the University of Stockholm, Ivar Bendixson.
Stockholm 11/3/1912.
SvENSKA SXLLSKAPET FOR ANTROPOLOGI OCH GEOGRAFI.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: The Swedish Anthropological and Geographical Society begs to acknowledge the receipt of your invitation to the Centenary Celebration of the founding of your Academy.
We very heartily rejoice at the occasion for congratulating your Academy, the oldest institution of its kind in America for the pursuit of natural history researches.
We send this message to you with all the more eagerness and ardour from the circumstance that your society originated and has flourished in a district of America where fellow-countrymen of ours of an earlier day were among those who first sowed the seeds of civilization.
Emil Ekhoff.
J. G. Andersson E. W. Dahlgren Gerard DeGeer E. Nordenskiold Edw.
Jaderin Axel Lagrelius Oscar Montelius A. G. Nathorst Sven Hedin Louis Palander Bernhard Salin Henrik Santesson Axel Wallen Gunnar Andersson.
Stockholm, February 22, 1912.
In a beautiful blue crushed levant ornamented portfolio.
K. Svenska Vetenskapsakademien.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: On the occasion of your esteemed Academy celebrating the One Hundredth Anniversary of her existence, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences desires to join the various other scientific societies both in the New World and the Old, who just now direct their congratulation to you.
The connection of scientific interests which exists between your country and our own dates back into the past.
Peter Kalm, a pupil of the great Linnaeus and a member of our Academy, devoted his researches to the virgin fields, which the people of the United States have converted into one of the world's richest civilized countries.
Our published transactions and our archives contain many contributions giving us information concerning the natural productions and conditions of America.
Among the thousands of emigrants which our country send you, not a few have made themselves known as scientific students and have thus in their adopted country done credit to the education they have received in the homeland.
The work of American scientists has, here in Sweden, always been studied and appreciated, and has had a most beneficial effect on Swedish scientific work.
For the part your Academy has taken in our efforts we, therefore, desire to express our gratitude, and to wish you continued success in the great field of natural science from which modern culture has reaped such rich harvests.
E. W. Dahlgren, President.
Chr.
Aurivillius, Secretary.
Stockholm, 28th February, 1912.
Superbly printed on folio sheet.
TSENTRALNAIA FlZICHESKAIA OBSERVATORIA NlCOLAS.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: The Central Physical Observatory of Nicolas at St. Petersburg begs The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to accept the sincerest congratulations of the Observatory on the occasion of the completion of one hundred j r ears of most active devotion to the cultivation of the natural sciences, one branch of which forms the task of the Observatory.
We wish most heartily that the Academy, the oldest institution of the United States for the study of the natural sciences, which has so much contributed to the progress of these sciences, may in the next centuries of activity continue its work with the same success.
Director : M. Rykatchew Vice Director: Ed.
Stelling Scientific Secretary: E. Heintz.
St. Petersburg, 19 March, 1912.
Tokyo Geographical Society.
Tokyo, March 9th, 1912.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: We return our hearty thanks for your kind letter, inviting us to send a delegate to attend the glorious celebration of the Centenary Anniversary of your Academy.
Your Academy, born as it was in the days when Geography was in its cradle, has ever since rendered great services to the progress of the natural sciences in the world.
As the celebration assumes the double importance on that account, we should feel very anxious to be present at the celebration if we could.
We, however, greatly regret to have to inform that various circumstances hinder us from sending you a delegate of our own.
Again with many thanks for your kind invitation and with our heartfelt wishes that the celebration will prove a great success, We have the honour to remain, Sir, KlNOSUKE INOUYE, General Secretary.
R. Universita degli Studi, Bologna.
Universitas Litterarum et Artium Bononiensis Academiae Disciplinarum Naturalium quse abhine Annos C Philadelphia condita est, in urbe prseclara cuius ipsum nomen et gentes hominum et doctrinas de sororio vinculo monere videtur, modo felicem ilium natalem est rite celebratura de expletis ante muneribus partaque laude gratulatur, uberrimos industrial fructus in posterum exoptat.
Leo Pesci Rector Universitatis.
X. Kal.
Mart.
MCMXII.
Superbly engrossed and decorated on folio parchment sheet.
Universita di Torino.
Torino, Addi I Marzo, 1912.
Illmo Signor Presidente: Ho ricevuto il gentile invito da cotesta Accademia di Scienze naturali rivolto alia nostra Universita di farsi rappresentare alle Feste che avranno luogo prossimamente in Filadelfia nella ricorrenza del Centenario della fondazione della Accademia stessa.
A nome anche del corpo insegnante di questo Ateneo, che ho l'onore di presiedere, ringrazio vivamente per cosi delicato pensiero la gloriosa Accademia di Filadelfia, la quale, assai apprezzata anche in Italia, giustamente si propone di celebrare, con la maggiore solemnity, la sua secolare esistenza, tuta dedicata al progresso delle Scienze Naturali.
Ma poiche, per la grande distanza, non sara possibile inviare uno speciale delegato, prego la cortesia della S. V. Illma di voler rappresentare a tali Feste la R. Universita di Torino.
Con il maggiore ossesquio II Rettore N. Ruffini All' Illmo Signor Presidente dell'Accademia di Scienze Naturali Filadelfia.
Universitat Heidelberg.
Heidelberg, den 7, Marz 1912.
Fur die freundliche Einladung zu Ihrer Jubelfeier sagen wir herzlichen Dank.
Es ist uns zu unsrem lebhaften Bedauern nicht moglich, einen Vertreter unsrer Hochschule zur Ueberbringung unsrer Gltickwunsche zu entsenden.
So entbietet die alteste Universitat des Deutschen Reiches, die Ruperto-Carola, der altehrwtirdigen Akademie der Naturwissenschaften zur Feier des hundertjahrigen Bestehens hiermit die besten Wunsche: Moge es der Akademie vergonnt sein, wie im abgelaufenen Jahrhundert so auch fernerhin die Naturwissenschaften zu pflegen und zu fordern.
Namens der Universitat Heidelberg v. Duhn The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
d. Zt.
Prorektor.
K. K. Universitat, Wien.
Akademischeb Senat der K. K. Universitat Wien Z.
884 ex 1911/12.
Wien, am 23.
Februar 1912.
Euer Hochwohlgeboren hatten die Freundlichkeit, die Universitat Wien zur Teilnahme an der am 19., 20. und 21 Marz 1912 stattfindenden hundertjahrigen Bestandfeier der Akademie einzuladen.
Leider ist infolge anderweitiger bereits ubernommener Verpflichtungen der in Betracht kommenden Personlichkeiten die Entsendung eines Vertreters zu dem Feste unmoglich ge word en und ich muss mich daher begniigen, auf diesem Wege zugleich mit dem Danke der Wiener Universitat fiir die freundliche Einladung auch die besten Gliickwunsche zu dieser Feier zu ubermitteln.
Der Rektor k. k. Universitat: Redlich To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Universitat, Zurich.
Zurich, den 1.
Marz 1912.
Das Rektorat der Hochschule Zurich an die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Empfangen Sie verbindlichen Dank des unterzeichneten Rektors und des Senates der Universitat Zurich fiir die freundliche Einladung zu dem bevorstehenden lOOjahrigen Jubelfest Ihrer Academie.
Leider ist es uns nicht vergonnt, uns durch eine personliche Abordnung an dem Feste vertreten zu lassen; um so mehr drangt es uns, Ihnen unsere besten Gluckwtinsche darzubringen fiir die Anerkennung, welche Ihre Academie durch ihre wissenschaftliche und erzieherische Wirksamkeit sich erworben hat.
Wir verbinden damit den Ausdruck unseres herzlichen Wunsches und unserer zuversichtlichen Hoffnung, dass Ihre Academie in gesegneter Weise weiter wirken moge fiir die Erkenntnis der Wahrheit und fiir das Wohl des Volkes.
In diesem Streben wissen wir uns mit Ihnen verbunden zu einer von den nationalen Grenzen nicht gehemmten Einheit des Geistes.
Zugleich wiinschen wir Ihrem Feste einen gliicklichen Verlauf .
Im Namen der Universitat Zurich i.
A.
Der z. Rektor: Arnold Meyer Prof. publ.
ordin.
S.S. Theologise Doctor.
University Catholique de Louvain.
Lou vain, le 24 fevrier 1912.
Monsieur le Secretaire: Je suis charge 1 d'exprimer a l'Academie des Sciences naturelles de Philadelphie, les remerciments de l'Universite de Louvain, pour sa gracieuse invitation aux fetes du Centenaire de cet illustre Corps savant.
L'Universite de Louvain regrette vivement que l'epoque choisie pour la celebration de ces fetes ne permette pas a ses professeurs de s'absenter, et forme ainsi obstacle a l'envoi d'un delegue\ Force lui est done de se borner a s'associer de loin, mais de tout cceur, aux felicitations et aux vceux qui, en ces jours, seront addresses a l'Academie de Philadelphie.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le Secretaire, l'assurance de ma haute consideration.
Pour le Conseil Rectoral Le Secretaire J.
Van Biervliet A Monsieur le Secretaire de l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphie.
University de Lyon.
Lyon, le 27 Fevrier 1912.
La jeune Universite de Lyon est heureuse d'adresser par dela l'Atlantique son salut le plus cordial a l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphie et d'exprimer a sa sceur aine Americaine ses sentiments d'affectuese confraternity et ses felicitations les plus vives a l'occasion des fetes du Centenaire de cette illustre Compagnie.
Tous les naturalistes d'Europe qui ont visite la grande cite de Philadelphie connaissent, pour les avoir longuement admirees la magnifique bibliotheque de l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles et ses remarquables collections dues a l'initiative et aux travaux de deux savants illustres entre tous dans les annales de la science paieontologique, Jos.
Leidy et Edw.
Cope.
C'est sous les auspices de ces deux hommes eminents que l'Universite de Lyon desire placer cette adresse destinee a apporter aux naturalistes de Pennsylvanie, a defaut d'un representant attitre l'hommage de sa sincere admiration, et de sa plus profonde sympathie.
Le Recteur, President du Conseil de l'Universite, P. Joubin.
R. Universiteit, Leiden.
Academiae Disciplinarum Physicarum Philadelphiensi S. p. d. Universitatis Lugduno-Batavae Rector et Senatus.
Quod nos ad ferias saeculares mense Martio Vobis celebrandas invitatis insigni nos a Vobis affectos honore penitus sentimus.
Quo magis dolemus quod magnum terrarum mariumque spatium quominus humanissima ilia invitatione utamur obstat.
Sed quamquam lactis illis diebus e nostro munero nemo istuc legari poterit, tamen omnes mente animoque tunc Vobiscum gaudebimus.
Et iam nunc pro illustri Vestra Academia ex animi sententia vota suscipimus solemnia.
Vivat, crescat, floreat et facem humanitatis praeferre omnibus pergat quibus bonae artes cordi sunt !
Lugd.
Batav.
die XXVII Menis Februarri MCMXII F. PlJPER Rector magnificus.
B. D. Erdmans, Actuarius.
On folio sheet with seal of University.
University of Cambridge.
Registry of the University of Cambridge, England, 14 March, 1912.
To the President of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Sir: I have the honor to inform you that the Senate of the University at a congregation held this day in the Senate House appointed Ernest William Brown, Doctor of Science, formerly Fellow of Christ's College, Professor of Mathematics in the University of Yale, to represent the University at the Centenary Anniversary of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia in March, 1912.
I have the honor to be, Sir, Your obedient Servant John Neville Keynes, Registrary.
Seal.
University of Cincinnati.
Office of the President.
The President and Faculties of the University of Cincinnati acknowledge, with much appreciation, the invitation to be represented at the celebration of the One hundredth Anniversary of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
They regret that it is not possible to send a delegate to convey to the members of the Academy their hearty congratulations upon the completion of one hundred years of noble service, and their cordial good wishes for the successful continuation of its important work.
The twentieth of March, Nineteen Hundred and Twelve.
University op Colorado.
The University of Colorado begs to convey to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia its most sincere congratulations on the occasion of the Centenary of the Academy.
At a time when our State was a wilderness unvisited by scientific men, the Academy was laying the foundations of American Biological Science.
During the past century its unceasing activities have contributed enormously to the knowledge of the fauna and flora of the West.
We hope that the Academy will enjoy even greater prosperity in the future than it has in the past, and that the coming century will see active cooperation between it and our developing western institutions.
Beautifully engrossed.
University of Edinburgh.
20th March, 1912.
Dear Sir: On behalf of the Senatus Academicus of the University of Edinburgh, I beg to convey cordial thanks to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for the invitation to be represented at the Celebration of the Academy's Centenary Anniversary.
I am to say that the Senatus greatly regret that the invitation did not reach them in sufficient time to enable them to arrange for the attendance of Delegates.
The Senatus send their warm congratulations to the Academy on the auspicious occasion and their best wishes for the Academy's future prosperity, and they trust the Celebrations are being carried through with the greatest success.
Yours faithfully, L. J.
Grant, Sec.
Sen. Acad.
Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
University of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame, Indiana, June 1, 1912.
To the Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Sir: The Centenary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia offers an appropriate and most welcome occasion to express the admiration which the University of Notre Dame has always entertained for the work of that distinguished body.
The history of its activities during the hundred years of its existence shows its connection with so many of the great achievements and its services to individuals and causes have been so great and so many that the story of the Academy must have an important place in any history of scientific development in the nineteenth century.
Its work has been done unselfishly and in a spirit of high devotion to the advancement of learning and the profit of humanity.
For this reason the world of learning acclaims it in its centenary year and wishes it continued power in its beneficent mission.
The University of Notre Dame feels it an honor to associate itself with the great schools that pay tribute to this venerable Academy.
Very truly yours, John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President.
University of Pennsylvania.
The Provost, Trustees, and Faculties of the University of Pennsylvania cordially congratulate The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on its Centennial Celebration to be held upon March 19th to 21st, and extend their best wishes upon this auspicious occasion.
The Provost has commissioned Josiah Harmar Penniman, Ph.D., LL.D., the Vice Provost of the University, to represent it at the ceremonies and to be the personal bearer of its congratulations.
(Seal) Edward Robins, Secretary to the Board of Trustees.
Philadelphia, Pa., March 19th, 1912.
University of Pittsburgh.
The University of Pittsburgh extends its greetings and congratulations to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia upon the completion of one hundred years of its honorable and useful career and expresses its best wishes for greater prosperity and an enlarged sphere of achievement during the coming years in the important field which it occupies.
Samuel Black McCormick, Chancellor, William Jacob Holland, former Chancellor, and George Hubbard Clapp, President of the Board of Trustees, are appointed delegates of the University at the Centennial Anniversary and are authorized to present these greetings.
Samuel Black McCormick, Chancellor.
S. B. Linhart, Secretary.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, March Eighteenth, Nineteen Hundred and Twelve.
University of Virginia.
University of Virginia, March 12, 1912.
The President and Faculty of the University of Virginia desire to present to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia their hearty congratulations on the completion of a century of scientific activity and achievement.
Founded at a time when the study of nature in this country was followed by but few students, and organized societies for the advancement of such study were in existence at but two or three widely separated points, the Academy has held an honorable place and has contributed largely to the results of scientific research in America.
May the second century of its existence be marked by as vigorous and fruitful life as that which closes so auspiciously.
Edwin A. Alderman, President.
9* JOURN.
ACAD.
NAT.
SCI.
PHILA.. VOL XV C. K. Universytet imienia cesarza Franciszka i Lemberg.
The Rector and the Senate of the Universytet imienia cesarza Franciszka I in Lemberg have the honor hereby to transmit their sincere congratulations and the expressions of highest esteem and respectful friendship to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, on the day when the Academy is celebrating the joyful event of its Centenary Anniversary.
The University of Lemberg is one of the only two surviving Polish universities, while the places of learning in other parts of Poland have been destroyed by foreign tyrannic force and oppression.
The University sympathizes deeply with the Academy, as one of the most ancient and most renowned scientific institutions of the New World, not only because of the common bond of affinity, uniting the learned societies and institutions of all countries and all nations, but also because the Academy is a representative of the Country of Freedom.
May the Academy continue the scientific work which has made famous its name all over the world, and may Science contribute towards raising of mankind from tyrannic barbarism to real humanity.
Lemberg, March 10th, 1912.
L. FlNKEL, Rector of University.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Verein fur vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wurttemberg.
Stuttgart, den 16 Februar 1912.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Indem ich fur die ehrenvolle und freundliche Einladung zur 100-Jahrfeier Ihrer Gesellschaft meinen verbindlichsten Dank ausspreche, mochte ich mir erlauben, namens des Vereins fur vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wurttemberg Ihrer Akademie die warmsten Gltickwunsche zu dieser Feier auszudriicken.
Mit Stolz kann Ihre Akademie auf die hundertjahrige Tatigkeit zuriickblicken, in welcher sie fur die wissenschaftliche Durchforschung der Vereinigten Staaten so Ausserordentliches geleistet hat.
Seien Sie iiberzeugt, dass auch unsere Gesellschaft Ihre Bestrebungen im vollsten Maasse anerkennt und Sie zu Ihren Erfolgen begliickwunscht.
Leider ist es mir nicht moglich, personlich unsere Gluckwiinsche zu uberbringen, und ich bitte deshalb, dieselben auf diesem Wege anzunehmen.
Mit dem Ausdruck vorzuglicher Hochachtung Der Vorsitzende des Vereins fur vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wurttemberg Professor Dr. E. Fraas.
Verein zur Verbreitung Naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse IN WlEN.
IV., k. k. teclmische Hochschule.
An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: Der Verein zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse in Wien sendet The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia zur 100 Jahrfeier die besten Gltickwunsche.
In den ersten Jahrzehnten des Bestandes der Vereinigten Staaten, als erste naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft daselbst gegriindet, hat The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia bis heute in ausgedehntem Masse die naturwissenschaftliche Erkenntnis in ihrem Vaterlande gefordert und sich dadurch grosse Verdienste erworben.
Dass diese bedeutende Tatigkeit der Academie noch recht lange andauern moge, wunscht unser Verein aufrichtigst.
Hofr.
Prof. Dr. Franz Toula, 1st Vice Prasident.
Wien, am 23.
Februar 1912.
The Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology, Philadelphia.
To the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: The Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology extends its felicitations and congratulations to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and, owing to the close affiliation which exists between the two institutions, joins with special satisfaction in the celebration of the Centenary Anniversary.
On this occasion, The Wistar Institute delegates its Director as the Representative to take part in these festivities.
Edgar F. Smith, President Milton J. Greenman, Secretary.
March 19, 1912.
K. K. Zoologisch-Botanische Gesellschaft, Wien.
111/3, Mechelgasse Nr.
2.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: The K. K. Zoologisch-Botanische Gesellschaft sends by the present her cordial congratulations for the honourable commemoration to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
On this occasion she thinks thankfully on the great merits which the Academy has acquired for the advancement of the science in general and the organization of scientifical works in North America and joins in the sincere wishes for the future and begs of continuation of the cordial relations.
Vienna, the 8th March, 1912.
Das Prasidium der K. K. Zoologisch-Botanischen Gesellschaft.
Prof. Dr. R. v. Wettstein, Praesident.
Dr. Franz Ostermeyer Vice Praesident.
Zoologische Gesellschaft, Hamburg.
Hamburg, den 15 Febr.
1912.
Mit dem Ausdruck verbindlichsten Dankes bestatigt die Zoologische Gesellschaft in Hamburg die Einladung zur Beteiligung an der Feier des hundertjahrigen Jubilaeums der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Die Zoologische Gesellschaft wird leider nicht in der Lage sein durch einen Vertreter an diesem Ehrentage teilzunehmen und der Jubilarin ihre aufrichtigsten Gliickwiinsche zu ubermitteln.
Sie bittet dies zu entschuldigen und auf diesem Weg die Versicherung entgegenzunehmen, dass ihre besten Wunsche fur ein ferneres Bliihen und Gedeihen die Academy in das zweite Jahrhundert ihres Bestehens begleiten.
Die Zoologische Gesellschaft in Hamburg.
Der Vorstand.
Prof. Dr. F. Vosseler.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
K. Zoologisches und Anthropologisch-Ethnographisches Museum.
Dresden A, Zwinger, 13 Februar 1912.
An die Academy of Natural Sciences Philadelphia: Mit Interesse habe ich davon Kenntnis genommen, dass die Academy, eine der altesten Pflanzstatten der Naturwissenschaften in der Neuen Welt, demnachst die Feier ihres lOOjahrigen Bestandes begehen wird.
Wenn ich auch nicht in der Lage bin, die Gluckwunsche der von mir geleiteten Anstalt selbst zu iiberbringen, so benutze ich doch die mir giitigst ubermittelte Einladung dazu, um Ihrer Korperschaft meine Freude uber die Vollendung jenes Zeitabschnittes auszusprechen, zugleich mit dem Ausdrucke meiner wahren Verehrung fur die wahrenddem von ihr zutage geforderten grossen Leistung auf unserem gemeinsamen Arbeitsgebiete.
Ich kniipfe daran den aufrichtigen Wunsch, dass die weitere Entwicklung der Academy ihr jederzeit erlauben moge, ihren selbstgesteckten Zielen mit gleicher Tatkraft und mit denselben schonen Erfolgen nachzustreben, wie es im verflossenen Jahrhundert der Fall war.
In aller Hochschatzung A. Jacobi Direktor.
Other letters were received from the following : R. ACADEMIA DE ClENCIAS Y ARTES DE BARCELONA.
Louis M. Vidal, President.
Academia Nacional de Historia, Bogota.
Pedro M. Haiier.
Acadeimie d'Arras.
G. Acrement, President.
ACADEMIE DES SCIENCES INSCRIPTIONS ET BELLES-LETTRES DE TOULOUSE.
Henri Dumeril, Secretaire perp^tuel.
R. Accademia dei Fisiocritici, Siena.
Prof. Dominico Barduzzi, President.
Accademia Scientifica Veneto-Trentino-Istriana, Padova.
Prof. G. Dal Piaz, President.
R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torino.
Charles Sedgwick Minot.
R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, Modena.
Francesco Nicoli, President.
American Academy op Arts and Sciences, Boston.
Edwin H. Hall, Corresponding Secretary.
American Physiological Society.
S. J. Meltzer, President; A. J. Carlson, Secretary.
K. Anatomisches Institut, Halle a S. W. Roux.
Anthropological Society of Bombay.
Jivanji Jamshedji Modi, Hon.
Secretary.
Archaeological Institute of America, Pennsylvania Society.
George Barton, Secretary.
Asiatic Society of Bengal, Calcutta.
G. H. Tipper, Hon.
Secretary.
Lord Avebury, London.
Ayers, Howard, Cincinnati.
Baltzer, A., Bern.
Barrois, Charles, Paris.
Bataafsh Genootschap der Proefondervindelijke Wijsbegeerte te Rotterdam.
Dr. R. H. van Dorsten, 1st Secretary.
K. Bayer.
Julius-Maximilians-Universitat, Wurzburg.
Karl Bernhard Lehman, Rector.
K. Bayer.
Oberbergamt, Munchen.
Ludwig v. Ammon.
Bedel, L., Paris.
Berliner Entomologischer Verein.
Paul Schulz, Secretary.
Biltmore Herbarium.
C. D. Beadle, Director.
Biologische Versuchsanstalt in Wien.
H. Przibram, Director.
R. Botanic Garden, Calcutta.
A. T. Gage, Superintendent.
R. Botanic Gardens, Kew.
D. Prain, Director.
R. Botanic Gardens, Peradeniya, Ceylon.
Boulenger, G. A., London.
Brady, Dr. G. S., Sheffield.
Branner, John Casper, Stanford University.
Britton, N. L., New York.
Brown University, Providence.
W. H. P. Faunce, President.
Brunton, Sir Lauder, London.
Bureau of Science, Manilla.
Richard P. Strong.
California State Mining Bureau, San Francisco.
W. H. Storms, State Mineralogist.
Capellini, Prof. Giovanni, Bologna.
Cardiff Naturalists' Society.
William Sheen, President.
Carnegie Institute of Pittsburgh.
W. N. Frew, President; S. H. Church, Secretary.
Carnegie Institution of Washington, Station for Experimental Evolution, Cold Spring Harbor.
Cartailhac, Emile, Toulouse.
Centro de Sciencias, Letras e Artes, Campinas.
Chantre, Ernest, Fontville, par Ecully, Rhone.
Club Alpin de Crimee et du Caucase, Odessa.
E. Molthanoff, VicePresident; A. Alexejev, Secretary.
Club Alpin Suisse.
Charles Maerky, Secretary.
Cockerell, Theo.
D. A., Boulder, Colorado.
Collett, R., Christiania.
Colorado College, Colorado Springs.
Jonathan A. Rorer, Ph.D. Cooke, M. C, London.
Danische Laboratorium fur Susswasser Biologie.
D. WesenburgLund, Director.
Dansk Botansk Forening, Kobenhavn.
L. Kolderup Rosenvinge, President.
Danske Biologisk Station, Kobenhavn.
C. G. Joh.
Petersen.
K. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Kobenhavn.
H. G. Zeuthen, Hon.
Secretary.
Davenport Academy of Sciences.
J. H. Paarman, Secretary.
Delaware Valley Ornithological Club.
Samuel C. Palmer, Sec.
pro tern.
Department of Agriculture, Cape Town.
Department of Agriculture, Kingston.
H. H. Cousins, Director.
Department of Agriculture, Trinidad and Tobago.
W. G. Freeman, Asst.
Director.
Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries, Washington, D. C. George M. Bowers, Commissioner.
Department of Commerce and Labor, Coast and Geodetic Survey, Washington, D. C. O. H. Tittmann, Superintendent.
Department of Mines, Perth.
H. L. King, Secretary.
Deutsche Mikrologische Gesellschaft, Munchen.
Rl.
France.
Deutscher Verein zum Schutze der Vogelwelt, Gera-Reuss.
Dr. Hennicke.
Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpenverein, Wien.
Dr. Duges.
Ecole Nationale d 'Agriculture de Montpellier.
Paul Ferrouillat, Director.
Entomological Society of Ontario.
F. M. Webster.
Essex Institute, Salem.
George Francis Dow, Secretary.
Field Naturalists' Club, Brisbane.
C. W. Holland, Hon.
Secretary.
Forel, Dr. A., Yvorne.
Friedrich Wilhelms-Universitat, Berlin.
M. Lenz, Rector.
Fiirbringer, Max., Heidelberg.
Geikie, Archibald, London.
Geological Society of South Africa, Johannesburg.
W. W. R. Jags, Asst.
Secretary.
Geological Society of Tokyo.
N. Yamasaki, Hon.
Secretary.
Geological Survey of India, Calcutta.
R. Geologisch-Mineralogisch Museum, Leiden.
K. Martin.
Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde, Berlin.
Alb.
Penck, Vorsitzender.
Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde zu Leipzig.
Herm.
Reishauer, Secretary.
Gesellschaft von Freunden der Naturwissenschaften, Gera-R. Fr.
Moos, Anton Renz, With.
Israel, Franz Weise, Ernst Kretschmer, Alfred Auerbach.
Gesellschaft fur Morphologie und Physiologie, Munchen.
Ludwig Neumayer, M.D., President.
Gesellschaft fur Naturund Heilkunde zu Dresden.
Prof. Dr. Rietschel, Secretary.
Gesellschaft fur Voelkerund Erdkunde zu Stetten.
G. Buschan, President.
Gill, Dr. Theo.
N., Washington, D. C. Godman, F. D., Horsham.
Goteborgs Museum.
Carl Lagerburg, Director.
Goldschmid, V., Heidelberg.
Gosselet, J., Lille.
Government Fisheries Bureau, Tuticorin.
James Hornell, Superintendent.
Government Museum, Madras.
Graff, L. v., Graz.
Grant, Sir James, Ottawa.
Guernsey Society of Natural Science.
T. W. M. de Guerin, President.
Haeckel, Ernst, Jena.
Herculais, Jules Kiinckel d\ Hertwig, Richard, Munchen.
Hirase, Y., Kyoto.
Hirnanatomisches Institut, Zurich.
Constantin v. Monakow, Director.
Hochstetter, A., Wien.
Hoernes, Moritz, Wien.
Hoyle, William Evans, Cardiff.
Hubrecht, A.
A. W., Utrecht.
Hygienic Laboratory, Washington, D. C. John F. Anderson, Director.
Indian Museum, Calcutta.
N. Annandale, Secretary.
Institut General Psychologique, Paris.
Institut National Genevois.
B. P. C. Hochreutiner, Secretary.
Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.
Frank Cundall, Secretary.
Instituto Geologico de Mexico.
Jose 1 G. Aguilera, Director.
Instituts Solvay, Bruxelles.
Emile Wexweiler, Director.
Institutul Geologic al Romaniei, Bucuresti.
V. Popovici-Hatzeg, Director.
Iowa Academy of Science, Des Moines.
R. Irish Academy, Dublin.
Jardin Imperial de Botanique de St. Petersbourg.
A. Fischer de Waldheim, Director.
Judd, John W., Kew.
Jugoslavenske Akademije Znanosti i Umjetnosti, Zagreb.
Dr. A.
Music, Secretary.
K. k. Karl Franzens-Universitat, Graz.
Franz Hauke, Rector.
Kjobenhavns Universitet.
F. Buhl, Rector.
Lang, Arnold, Zurich.
Lankester, Sir Ray, London.
K. Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher, Halle.
A. Wangerin, President.
Libbey, William, Princeton.
Lunds Universitet, Lund.
Axel Koch, Principal.
K. Lyzeum Hosianum zu Braunsberg.
Jos.
Kolberg, Rector.
A. Magyar Nemzeti Muzeum Igazgat6saga, Budapest, v. Szdlay Imre, Director.
A. M. Nemzeti Muzeum, Zoological Section.
Geza Horvath, Director.
Kir.
Magyar Tudomany-Egyetem, Budapest.
I. Frohlich, Rector.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society.
R. F. Hinson, Asst.
Sec.
Marlborough College Natural History Society.
Edward Meyrich, President.
Martin, K., Leiden.
Mineralogical Society, London.
George T. Prior, Hon.
General Secretary.
Miramichi Natural History Association, Chatham, N. B. J. Baxter, Corresponding Secretary.
Monterosato, Marchese de, Palermo.
Montgomery, Thomas L., Harrisburg.
Morgan, C. Lloyd, Bristol.
Musee du Congo Belge.
Musee d'Histoire Naturelle, Geneve.
Maurice Bedot, Director.
Museo de la Plata.
Samuel A. Lafone Quevedo.
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass.
Samuel Henshaw, Curator.
Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, Marseille.
G. Vasseur, Director.
K. Museum fur Naturkunde, Berlin.
A. Brauer, Director.
Nansen, Fridtjof, Lysaker.
Natural History Society of British Columbia, Victoria.
L. Napier Denison, Hon.
Secretary.
Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham, and Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
C. E. Robson, Hon.
Secretary.
Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Basel.
H. Veillon, President.
Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Emden.
C. Hermann, Director; Wilhelm Hahn, Secretary.
Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Freiburg i. Br.
A. Kuhn.
Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Halle a. d. Saale.
Rudolph Bencke, President.
Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Zurich.
C. Schroter, President.
Naturforschender Verein, Brunn.
Anton Rzehak, Secretary.
Naturhistorisches Landesmuseum von Karnten.
Dr. Latzel, President; Ernst v. Kiesewetter, Secretary.
Naturhistorischer Verein der Preuss.
Rheinlande u. Westfalens, Bonn.
G. Borchers, President; W. Voigt, Secretary.
Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis zu Bautzen.
F. A. Dr. Med.
Monnenmacher, Secretary.
Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Landshut i.
B. Prosinger, President.
Northamptonshire Natural History Society and Field Club, Northampton.
H. N. Dixon, Hon.
Secretary.
North Staffordshire Naturalists' Field Club, Stone.
W. Wells Bladen, Hon.
Secretary.
Nova Scotian Institute of Science, Halifax.
Harry Piers, Rec.
Secretary.
Oberhessische Gesellschaft fur Naturund Heilkunde.
Naturwissenschaftliche Abteilung, Giessen.
Er.
Kaiser, President.
Oberlin College.
Henry Churchill King, President.
Obschestvo Ispytatelei Priody pri Imper.
Kharkofskom Universitetie.
L. Reinhard, President; M. Alexenko, Secretary.
R. Orto Botanico di Modena.
G. B.
De Toni, Director.
Osier, Sir William, Oxford.
Physikalischer Verein zu Frankfurt a. M. Dr. Freund.
Phytopathologisch Laboratorium "Willie Commelin Scholten," Amsterdam.
Joh'a.
Westerdijk, Directress.
Poulton, Edward B., Oxford.
Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, Utrecht.
J. L. Hoorweg, Secretary.
Putnam, Fred'k W., Cambridge, Mass.
Queensland Museum, Brisbane.
R. Hamlyn-Harris, Director.
Reid, Harry Fielding, Baltimore.
Retzius, Gustav, Stockholm.
Riviere, Emile, Paris.
Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, New York.
Rothschild, Hon.
Walter, Tring.
Roux, W., Halle a. S. Royal Society of Canada, Ottawa.
Duncan C. Scott, Hon.
Secretary.
Royal Society of New South Wales.
J. H. Maiden, Hon.
Secretary.
Royal Society of Victoria.
T. S. Hall.
Sachs.
(Grossherzogl.
und Herzogl.)
Gesamt-Universitat, Jena.
Biswanger, Prorektor.
Sachsisch-Thuringischer Verein fur Erdkunde zu Halle a. S. A. Schenck, Secretary.
San Diego Society of Natural History.
Ford A. Carpenter, Secretary.
Sarawak Museum.
Sars, G. O., Christiania.
Sauvage, H. E., Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Scharff, Robert F., Dublin.
SCHLESISCHE GESELLSCHAFT FUR VATERLANDISCHE CULTUR, BrESLAU.
Foerster.
R. Scuola Superiore di Agricoltura in Milano.
Costantino Gorini, Director.
Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Frankfurt a. M. O. zur Strassen, Director.
Societa Italiana di Scienze Naturali, Milano.
Marco de Marchi, President.
Society de Biologie, Paris.
A. Pettit.
Societe Botanique et d'Etudes Scientifiques du Limousin.
Ch.
Le Gendre, President.
Society Entomologique de France.
J. de Gaulle, President.
Societe francaise de Mineralogie, Paris.
A. de Gramont, President.
Societe Linneenne de Lyon.
Paul Buy, Secretary.
Societe des Naturalistes Luxembourgeois.
F. Heuertz, Secretary.
Societe Neuchateloise des Sciences Naturelles.
Eug.
Mayor, President.
Society Royale des Sciences de Liege.
J. Fairon, Secretary.
Societe des Sciences de Nancy.
Societe des Sciences, des Aets et des Lettres du Hainaut.
Paul Faider, Secretary.
Societe des Sciences Naturelles et Arch^ologiques de la Creuse, Gueret.
Delannoy, President.
Societe Vaudoise d'Histoire et d'Archeologie, Lausanne.
Charles Gilliard, Secretary.
Societe Royale Zoologique et Malacologique de Belgique, Bruxelles.
Francis J.
Ball, President.
Stadisches Museum fur Naturund Heimatkunde, Magdeburg.
Prof. Dr. Martens, Director.
State Agricultural College, Fort Collins, Col. Charles A. Lory, President.
State Natural History Museum, Springfield, III.
A. R. Crook.
Stav anger Museum, Stav anger.
A. E. Ericksen, Director.
Sternberg, Geo.
M., Washington, D. C. Stirling Natural History and Archaeological Society.
David B. Morris.
Strasburger, E., Bonn.
Suess, E., Wien.
Teylers Stichting, Harlem.
Thomas, 0., London.
Thurgauische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Frauenfeld.
Schmid, President.
Toula, Dr. Franz, Wien.
Tromso Museum.
L. A. Stav, Chairman.
Trondhjems Biologiske Station.
0.
Nordgaard, Director.
Universidade do P6rto.
F. Gomez Teixeira, Rector.
R. Universita degli Studi di Padova.
Vittorio Rossi, Rector.
R. Universita di Pisa.
D. Supino, Rector.
R. Universita degli Studi di Siena.
D. Barduzzi, Rector.
K. Universitat Marburg.
F. Schenek, Rector.
Universite Egyptienne, Cairo.
Prince Ahmed Fouad Pacha, President.
Universite Laval, Quebec.
A. E. Gosselin, Rector.
Universite libre de Bruxelles.
A. Lavachery, Secretary.
Universite de Toulouse.
A. Tapie, Rector.
R. Universiteit, Groningen.
G. C. Nijhoff, Rector.
J. H. Kern, Secretary.
R. Universiteit te Utrecht.
C. Eijkman, Secretary.
University of Athens.
Sp.
Lambros, Rector.
University of London.
Henry A. Miers, Principal.
University of Montana, Missoula.
C. A. Duniway, President.
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
Francis Venables, President.
University of North Dakota, Grand Forks.
Frank L. McVey, President.
University of Oxford.
Charles Sedgwick Minot.
Vejdovsky, F., Prag.
Verein fur Erdkunde zu Dresden.
B. Pattenhausen, President; Dr. Rolle, Secretary.
Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenberg, Rostock i. M. Eugen Geinitz.
Verein fur Geschichte und Naturgeschichte der Baar und der angrenzenden Landesteile, Donaueschingen.
Dr. Tumbult, President.
Verein fur Naturkunde zu Cassel.
B. Schaefer, Director.
Verein fur naturwissenschaftliche Unterhaltung, Hamburg.
M. Beyle, Secretary.
Vereinigte Friedrichs-Universitat Halle-Wittenberg.
I. Veit, Rector.
Vries, Hugo de, Amsterdam.
Washington Academy of Sciences.
Arthur L. Day, Corresponding Secretary.
Wiedersheim, Dr. R., Freiburg.
Wijhe, J. W. van, Groningen.
Wilder, Burt G., Brookline.
Wilson, Edmund B., New York.
Wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft in Strassburg.
H. Bresslau, President.
Zoologisches Institut der Universitat, Marburg i. H. E. Korschelt.
Cablegrams were received from the following: R. Accademia dei Lincei, Rome.
Pietro Blaserna, President.
K. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien.
Boehm von Bawerk, President; Friedrich Becke, Secretary.
I. Akademija Nauk, St. Petersburg.
S. F. Oldenburg, Secretary.
K. Alexanders-Universetet i Finland, Helsingfors.
Donner, Rector.
Comite geologique de Russie, St. Petersburg.
Tschernychew, Director.
K. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Vilh.
Thomsen, President.
Deutsche Botanische Gesellschaft, Berlin.
dorpater naturforscher-gesellschaft.
R. Dublin Society.
Ardilaun, President.
Finska Vetenskaps Societeten, Helsingfors.
Holsti, President; Anders S. Donner, Secretary.
KaiserWilhelms Universitat, Strassburg.
A. Ehrhard, Rector.
Karpinsky, Alexander Petrovic, St Petersburg.
Imp.
Mineralogiceskoje Obscestvo, St. Petersburg.
Karpinsky, Director; Tschernychew, Secretary.
Museu Paulista, Sao Paulo.
H. von Ihering, Director.
Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Danzig.
Polskiego Towarzystera Przyrodnikow im Kopernika.
K. Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften, Berlin.
Arthor Auwers, Secretary.
Imp.
Russkoje Geograficeskoje Obscestvo, St. Petersburg.
Semenov-Tjan-Shanskij, Vice-President; Dostoievsky, Secretary.
Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Frankfurt a. M. Societa Italiana per il Progresso delle Scienze, Rome.
r. societas scientiarum upsaliensis.
K. Universitetet i Upsala.
Imp.
University of Tokyo.
Zoologische Station, Naples.
Acknowledgment of these communications was made as follows, embodying the action of the Academy taken at the meeting of April 16, 1912: Resolved: That The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia finds much encouragement and stimulus in the expressions of cordial congratulation and recognition of its labors that reached it on the occasion of the celebration of the Centenary Anniversary of its Foundation.
Resolved: That the Corresponding Secretary be instructed to convey to corresponding institutions and members an expression of the Academy's warm gratitude for their appreciation and courtesy.
Samuel G. Dixon, President.
J. Percy Moore, Corresponding Secretary.
Edward J. Nolan, Recording Secretary.
INDEX.
R. Academia de Ciencias y Artes de Barcelona, letter, cxxxiv Academia Nacional de Historia, Bogota, letter, cxxxiv R. Accademia dei Fisiocritici, Siena, letter, cxxxiv Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali in Catania, delegate, ..... xliv R. Accademia dei Lincei, cablegram, .
.
cxli Accademia Scientifica Veneto-Trentino-Istriana, letter, cxxxiv Accademia della Scienze di Torino, delegate, xlvii; letter, ...... cxxxiv Accademia della Scienze fisiche e matematiche di Napoli, delegate, ..... xliv R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, Modena, letter, cxxxiv R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti in Padova, letter, liii I. R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti degli Agiati, Rovereto, delegate, .
.
xliv letter, liv Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti degli Zelanti di Acireale, delegate, ... 1 Acad6mie d' Arras, letter, .
.
.
cxxxiv Acade'mie des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles Lettres de Toulouse, letter, .
.
cxxxiv Acad^mie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux Arts de Belgique, letter, .
.
lii Adams, Frank Dawson, delegate, .
.
xliii Adams, John W., delegate, .... xliii Aguilera, Jose 1 G., letter, .
.
.
cxxxvii Ahmed Fouad Pacha, letter, .
.
.
cxi AkademiaUmiejetnosci wKrakowie, letter .
lv K. Akademie van Wetenschappen te Amsterdam, letter, lvi K. k. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien, cablegram cxli I. Akademija Naiik, St. Petersburg, cablegram, cxli Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat, Freiburg i.
Br., letter, lvii K. Albertus-Universitat zu Konigsberg i.
Pr., letter, lviii Alderman, Edwin A., letter, .
.
cxxix K. Alexanders-Universetet i Finland, cablegram, cxli Alexejev, A., letter, .... cxxxv American Academy of Arts and Sciences, delegate, xlix letter cxxxiv American Anthropological Association, delegates, xlv, xlvii American Association for the Advancement of Science, delegates, .... xlvi, xlvii American Association of Anatomists, delegate, xlvi American Association of Economic Entomologists, delegate xlvi American Association of Economic Entomologists, letter, lix American Entomological Society, delegate, .
xliv American Geographical Society, delegate, .
xlvii American Institute of Mining Engineers, delegates, xliii, xliv, xlvi American Microscopical Society, delegates, xlviii letter lx American Museum of Natural History, delegate, xlvii letter, lx American Ornithologists' Union, delegate, .
xlv American Philosophical Society, delegates, xlv, xlviii .
lxi delegates, xlvi, xlvii cxxxiv .
xlvi .
xliii .
xliii cxxxiv letter, cxxxiv Anders, James M., committee on meetings and addresses, Anderson, John F., letter, .
Anderson, Gunnar, letter, .
Andersson, J. G., letter, Announcement of celebration, Anthropological Society of letter American Physiological Society, letter, American Society of Naturalists, delegate, Ames, Herman V., delegate, Amherst College, delegate, .
Ammon, Ludwig v., letter, K. Anatomisches Institut, Halle a S., Bombay, vn cxxxvii .
cxvii .
cxvii viii letter, cxxxiv Appalachian Mountain Club, delegate, .
xlix Archaeological Institute of America, delegate, xliii Archaeological Institute of America, Pennsylvania Society, letter, .... cxxxiv Ardilaun, Lord, cablegram, .
.
.
cxli Arnaud, A., letter, xciii "Ash of smooth muscle," E. B. Meigs and L. A. Ryan, xxiii Ashton, Thomas G., committee on entertainment, viii arranges for banquet, .
Asiatic Society of Bengal, letter, Ateneo Veneto, delegate, letter, .... Auerbach, Alfred, letter, Aurivillius, Chr., letter, Auwers, Arthur, cablegram, Avebury, Lord, letter, Ayers, Howard, letter, Baily, William L., "Methods ING WILD BIRDS," Baker, J. Eugene, letter, Balch, Edwin S., delegate, .
Ball, Francis J., letter, Baltzer, A., letter, Banquet, .... Barduzzi, Dominico, letters, IX cxxxiv .
xlvi .
lxi cxxxvi cxviii .
cxli cxxxiv cxxxiv OF PHOTOGRAPH.
xxiv cv .
xliii cxl cxxxiv .
xxvi-xlii .
cxl, cxxxiv cxliii cxliv INDEX.
Barringer, Daniel M., committee on entertainment, viii Barrois, Charles, letter, .
.
.
cxxxiv Barton, George A., delegate, .
.
.
xliii letter, cxxxiv Bassoli, Giacomo G., letter, .
.
.
cxiv Bataafsch Genootschap der Proefondervindelijke Wijsbegeerte te Rotterdam, letter, .
cxxxiv Bawerk, Boehm von, cablegram, .
.
cxli Baxter, J., letter, .... cxxxvii K. Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften, letter, lxii K. Bayer.
Julius-Maximilians-Universitat, letter, cxxxiv K. Bayer.
Oberbergamt, letter, Beadle, C. D., letter, .
Becquerel, Jean, letter, Bedel, L., letter, Bedot, Maurice, letter, Bela, Lengyel, letter, .
Bencke, Rudolph, letter, Bendixson, Ivar, letter, Berliner Entomologischer Verein, letter, Berzeviczy, A., letter, Beyle, M., letter, Beyschlag (F.), letter, Biltmore Herbarium, letter, Biologische Versuchsanstalt, in Wien, cxxxiv cxxxiv .
xciii cxxxiv cxxxviii xc cxxxviii .
cxvii cxxxiv xc .
cxli .
lxxxi cxxxiv letter, cxxxiv .
xliii cxxxix cxxxviii .
xliii Birkenbine, John, delegate, Biswanger, letter, Bladen, W. Wells, letter, .
Blaisdell, James Arnold, delegate, Blankenburg, Hon.
Rudolph, present at meeting ix Address of welcome, .
.
.
.
x, xi present at banquet, .... xxvi Remarks at banquet, .
.
.
xxviii Blaserna Pietro, cablegram, .
.
.
cxli Boehm, Walter M., delegate, .
.
.
xliii Bond, Francis E., committee on entertainment, viii Boston Society of Natural History, delegates, xlvi, xlix R. Botanic Garden, Calcutta, letter, .
cxxxiv R. Botanic Garden, Kew, letter, .
cxxxiv R. Botanic Gardens, Peradeniya, letter, cxxxiv Botanical Society of America, delegate, xlvii Botanical Society of Washington, delegates, xlvii, xlix Botanischer Verein der Provinz Brandenburg, letter, lxiii xciii cxxxiv xciii cxxxiv cxxxiv cxxxiv cxxxviii cvii cxli Ixx lxiv xliii cxxxiv xliii Boule, Marcellin, letter, Boulenger, G. A., letter, Bouvier, L. E., letter, Bowers, George M., letter, Brady, G. S., letter, Branner, J. C., letter, Brauer, A., letter, .
Braun, M., letter, .
Bresslau, H., letter, Briquet, John, letter, British Museum of Natural History, letter, Britton, N. L., delegate, letter, .
Brown, Ernest William, delegate, Brown University, letter, .
.
.
cxxxv Brubaker, Albert P., committee on entertainment, viii Brunton, Sir Lauder, letter, .
.
.
cxxxv Bryant, Henry Grier, preliminary committee, vii committee on finance, .
.
.
viii "Governmental agencies in the advancement op geographical knowledge in the United States," .
.
.
xxv present at banquet xxvi delegate, xliii Bryn, Hon.
Helmar, delegate, .
.
xliii Bryn Mawr College, delegate, .
.
1 Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, letter, lxv Buhl, F., letter, cxxxvii Bureau of American Ethnology, delegate, xlvi Bureau of Animal Industry, delegate, .
xlvii Bureau of Entomology, delegate, .
.
xlviii letter, lxv Bureau of Plant Industry (U. S. Dept.
Agric), delegate xlv Bureau of Science, Manila, letter, .
.
cxxxv Burrill, Thomas J., delegate, .
.
.
xliii Buy, Paul, letter, cxxxix Cadwalader, Hon.
John, committee on invitations, ...... vii committee on finance, .
.
.
viii present at meeting, .... ix present at banquet, .... xxvi California State Mining Bureau, letter, .
cxxxv Calkins, Gary N., delegate, .
.
.
xliii Calvert, Philip P., committee on printing and publication, vii delegate, xliii Campbell, William, delegate, .
.
.
xliii Canadian Institute, delegate, .
.
.
xlv letter, lxvi Capellini, Giovanni, letter, .
.
.
cxxxv Car, L., letter, lxxxiv Cardiff Naturalists' Society, letter,.
.
cxxxv Carnegie Institute, Pittsburg, delegates, xliv, xlvi letter, ...... cxxxv Carnegie Institution of Washington, delegate, 1 letter, lxvi Carnegie Institution of Washington, Station for Experimental Evolution, Cold Spring Harbor, letter, cxxxv Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg, delegates, xliv, xlvi letter, lxvii Carpenter, Ford A., letter, .
.
.
cxxxix Carruccio, Antonio, letter, .
.
.
cxiv Cartailhac, Emile, letter, .
.
.
cxxxv Cathcart, E. P., delegate, .
.
.
xliv Catholic University of America, letter, .
lxvii delegate, xlvi Cavanaugh, Rev.
John, C.S.C., letter, .
cxxvii Cech, J., letter, lxix Celakovsky, J., letter, .... lxix Centro de Sciencias, Letras e Artes, Campinas, letter, cxxxv Ceska Akademie Cfoafe Frantiska Josefa pro vedy, slovesnost a umeni, letter, .
Ixviii INDEX.
cxlv Karlo-Ferdinandova v lxix C. K. Ceskd Universita Praze, letter, Chantre, Ernest, letter, .
Chauveau, A., letter, Chemical Society of London, delegate, Chun, Carl, letters, Church, S. H., letter, Cincinnati Society of Naturai History, Clapp, George Hubbard, delegate, .
letter, ..... Clark, William Bullock, delegate, .
Cleeman, Richard A., delegate, letter, Club Alpin de Crim^e et du Caucase letter, Club Alpin Suisse, letter, Cockerell, Theo.
D. A., letter, College of Physicians of Philadelphia letter, Collctt, R., letter Collins, Holdridge 0., letter, .
Colorado College, delegate, letter, ..... cxxxv xciii xlvii ex, cxi cxxxv letter, lxix xliv lxvii xliv xliv lxx Odessa, cxxxv cxxxv cxxxv delegates, xliv, xlvii lxx cxxxv cxvi xlix cxxxv K. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, letter, cxxxv cablegram, ...... cxli Davenport Academy of Sciences, letter, .
cxxxv Davenport, Charles B., delegate, VI 1 xlvi xliv cxli xliv IX AND xxii xxvi Colton, H. Sellers, committee on invitations, Columbia University, delegate, Colville, F. V., delegate Comit6 G^ologique de Russie, cablegram, Comstock, John H., delegate, Conklin Edwin G., committee on meetings, and addresses.
..... vii present at meeting "Experimental studies of nuclear cell division," .... present at banquet,.
Remarks as toastmaster, xxvi, xxxi, xxxv, xxxvii, xxxix, xliii Connecticut Academy of Sciences, delegate, xlix Connecticut Experimental Station, delegate, xliv Conservatoire et Jardins Botanique (Herbier Delessert), letter, .... lxx "Contribution to the paleontolggy of Trinidad," C. J. Maury, Cook, Melville T., delegate, Cooke, M. C, letter, Coplin, W. M. C, delegate, letter, Cornell University, delegate, Costantin, J., .
Cousins, H. H., letter, Crescini, V., letter, .
Cresson, Ezra T., delegate, Crook, A. R., letter, Cross, Whitman, delegate, Cundall, Frank, letter, .
Curtin, Roland G., committee on entertainment, viii Dahlgren, E. W., letters, .
.
cxvii, cxviii Dal Piaz, G., letter cxxxiv Dall, William Healt, "Mollusk fauna of Northwest America,' ' .
.
.
xxv Danische Laboratorium fur Susswasser Biologie, letter, cxxxv Dansk Botansk Forening, letter, .
.
cxxxv Danske Biologisk Station, letter, .
.
cxxxv W JOURN.
ACAD.
NAT.
SCI.
PHILA., VOL.
XV XX111 xliv cxxxv xliv civ xlviii xciii cxxxv liii xliv cxl xliv cxxxvii xliv " David Alter, the first discoverer of specxxiii xliv xliv xliv cxli cxvii xci xliv cxl trum analysis," William J. Holland, Davis, William L., delegate, .
Davis, William Morris, delegate, .
Davison, Alvin, delegate, Day, Arthur L., letter, .
De Geer, Gerard, letter, Deinega, V., letter .... D'Invilliers, Edward, delegate, .
Delannoy, letter Delaware County Institute of Science, delegate, xlviii Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, delegate, xlix letter, cxxxv Denison, L. Napier, letter, .
.
cxxxviii Department of Agriculture (Cape Town) .
cxxxv Department of Agriculture, Kingston, .
cxxxv Department of Agriculture, Trinidad and Tobago, letter, cxxxv Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries, letter, ..... cxxxv Department of Commerce and Labor, Coast and Geodetic Survey, letter, .
.
.
cxxxv Department of Mines, Perth, letter, .
.
cxxxv Dercum, Francis X., committee on entertainment, viii de Schweinitz, George, committee on invitations, vii Deutsche Botanische Gesellschaft, cablegram, cxli Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft, letter,.
lxxi Deutsche Mikrologische Gesellschaft, letter, cxxxv Deutscher Naturwissenschaftlich-medizinischer Verein fur Bohmen Lotos, letter, .
.
lxxii Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpenverein, letter, cxxxv Deutscher Verein zum Schutze der Vogelwelt, letter, cxxxv Ditmars, Raymond L., delegate, .
.
xliv Dixon, Edwin S., committee on finance, .
viii present at banquet, .... xxvi Dixon, H. N., letter, .... cxxxviii Dixon, Hon.
Samuel G., chairman of centenary committee, ..... vii chairman of committee on finance, .
viii forwards preparations, .
.
.
ix present at meeting ix Introduction of the Mayor, .
.
x Address, ...... x-xx Remarks of acknowledgment, .
.
xxv presides at banquet, .... xxvi Remarks at banquet, .
.
.
xxxv delegate, xliv acknowledgment, .... cxlii Dixon, Samuel G., Mrs. Dixon, Miss Dixon, reception given by, .... ix Dodge, James Mapes, delegate, .
.
xlv Donaldson, Henry Herbert, "The history and zoological position of the albino rat," xxiii delegate, xlv Donner, Anders A., cablegram, .
.
.
cxli cxlvi INDEX.
Doolittle, Charles L., delegate, .
.
.
xlv Dorpater Naturforscher Gesellschaft, cablegram, cxli Dorsten, R. H.
van., letter, .
.
.
cxxxiv Dow, George Francis, letter, , .
.
cxxxvi Drinker, Henry Sturgis, delegate, .
.
xlv letter, ..... lxxxviii Duges, Dr., letter, cxxxv Duhn, v., letter cxxi Dumril, Henry, letter, .... cxxxiv Duniway, C. A., letter, cxl Durrant, Jno.
Hartley, letter, .
.
.
lxxiii Dury, Chas., letter, lxix Dwight, Jonathan, delegate, .
.
.
xlv Ecole d'Anthropologie de Paris, delegate, xlvii Ecole nationale d'Agriculture de Montpellier, letter, cxxxvi Ecole Polytechnique, delegate, .
.
.
xlviii Ehlers, E., letter, Ixxxiii Ehrhard, A., cablegram, .... cxli Eijkman, C, letter, cxl Ekengren, W. A. F., delegate, .
.
.
xlv Ekhoff, letter, cxvii Elistrator, A., letter, .
.
.
.
.
xcii Engineers' Society of Western Pennsylvania, delegate xlv Entomological Society of America, delegates, xliii, xlv, xlvi, 1 letter, lxxiii Entomological Society of London, delegates, xliv, xlv letter, lxxiii Entomological Society of Ontario, delegate, 1 letter, ...... cxxxvi Entomological Society of Washington, delegate, 1 letter, Ixxiv Entomological Society of Western Pennsylvania, delegate, xlvi Erdmans, B. D., letter, .... cxxiv Ericksen, A. E., letter, .... cxl Essex Institute, letter, .... cxxxvi Evans, John W., letter, .... lxxx Exhibitions, xxv "Experimental studies of nuclear and cell division," E. G. Conklin, .
.
.
xxii "Experiments on adaptation of animals to higher temperatures," J. Loeb, .
.
xxiv Fabricius, letter, lvii Faider, Paul, letter, cxl Fairchild, David G., delegate, .
.
.
xlv Fairchild, H. L., letter, .... lxxix Fairon, J., letter, cxxxix Farlow, William Gibson, delegate, .
.
xlv Faull, Joseph Horace, delegate, .
.
.
xlv "Fauna and flora of the New Jersey pine barrens," W. Stone, .... xxv " FAUNAL DIVISIONS OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA IN RELATION TO VEGETATION," S. Trotter, Xxiv Faunce, W. H. P., letter, .... cxxxv Felt, Ephraim P., delegate, .
.
.
xlv Fenton, Thos.
H., preliminary committee, vii committee on meetings and addresses, vii Fernald, Charles H., delegate, .
.
.xlv Ferrouillat, Paul, letter, .... cxxxvi Fewkes, J. Walter, delegate, .
.
.
xlv Field Naturalists' Club, Brisbane, letter, .
cxxxvi Finkel, L., letter, cxxx Finska Vetenskaps Societeten, cablegram, .
cxli Fletcher, L., letter, lxiv Foerster, letter, cxxxix Forbes, Stephen A., delegate, .
.
.
xlv Forel, A., letter, cxxxvi Fox, Herbert, committee on entertainment, viii Fox, William J., committee on printing and publication, Fraas, E., letter, .... France^ Rl., letter, .... Franklin Institute, delegate, letter, ...... Freeman, W. G., letter, French, Howard B., delegate, letter, Freund, Dr., letter, .... Freund, L., letter, .... K. Frederiks Universitet, Kristiania, vn .
cxxxi .
cxxxv .
xliii .
lxxv .cxxxv xlv ciii cxxxviii .
lxxii delegate, xliii .
lxxvi cxxxvi .cxxxv cxxxvii cxxxvi cxxxiv xlv lxxix !
x cxxxix cxxxvi .
cxli letter, Friederich Wilhelms-Universitet, letter, Frew, W. N., letter, .
Frohlich, I., letter, Furbringer, Max, letter, Gage, A. T., letter, Gager, Charles Stuart, delegate, Gallina, Dr., letter, Galloway, T. W., letter, Gaulle, J. de, letter, Geikie, Archibald, letter, Geinitz, Eugen, letter, .
R. Geographical Society of London, delegate, xliii letter, lxxvii Geographical Society of Philadelphia, delegate, xliii letter, .
.... lxxviii K. k. Geographische Gesellschaft, Wien, letter, lxxix Geologists' Association of London, delegate, xliv letter lxxx Geological Society of America, delegate, xlix letter, lxxix Geological Society of London, delegates, xliii, xliv, xlix Geological Society of South Africa, letter, cxxxvi Geological Society of Tokio, letter, .
cxxxvi Geological Society of Washington, delegates, xlvii, 1 Geological Survey of India, letter, .
cxxxvi K. Geologische Landesanstalt, Berlin, letter, lxxxi K. Geologisch-mineralogisch Museum, Leiden, letter, cxxxvi K. k. Geologische Reichsanstalt, letter, .
lxxx Georg-August-Universitat, Gottingen, .
Ixxxii Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde, Berlin, letter, cxxxvi Gesellschaft f tir Erdkunde, Leipzig, letter, cxxxvi Gesellschaft von Freunden der Naturwissenschaften, Gera-R., letter, .
.
.
cxxxvi Gesellschaft fur Morphologie und Physiologie, Munchen, letter, cxxxvi Gesellschaft fur Naturund Heilkunde zu Dresden, letter, cxxxvi Gesellschaft fur Voelkerund Erdkunde zu Stettin, letter cxxxvi INDEX.
cxlvii K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen, letter, lxxxiii Gill, Theodore N., present at banquet, xxvi Remarks at banquet .
.
.
xxxvi delegate, xlv letter, ...... cxxxvi Gilliard, Charles, letter, .... cxl Godman, F. D., letter, .... cxxxvi Goldschmid, V., letter, .... cxxxvi Gorini, Costantino, letter, .
.
.
cxxxix Goteborgs Museum, letter, .
.
.
cxxxvi Gordon, Clarence McC, delegate, .
.
xlv Gosselet, J., letter cxxxvi Gosselin, A. E., letter, .... cxl Government Fisheries Bureau, Tuticorin, letter, cxxxvi Government Museums, Madras, letter, .
cxxxvi " Government agencies in the advancement op geographical knowledge in the United States," H. G. Bryant, .
.
.
xxv Graff, L. v., letter, cxxxvi Gramont, A. de, letter, .... cxxxix Grant, Sir James, present at meeting, .
ix delegate, xlv letter, cxxxvi Grant, L. J., letter, cxxvi Greenman, Milton, J., committee on printing and publication, vii delegate, xlv letter, cxxxii Giirich, G., letter, xcix Guerin-Ganivet, F., letter, .
.
.
lxxxviii Guernsey Society of Natural Sciences, letter, cxxxvi Guye, Ph.
A., letter cxii Haeckel, Ernst, letter, .... cxxxvi Hahn, Wilhelm, letter, .... cxxxviii Hall, T. S., letter, .
.... cxxxix Harris, A. W., letter, .... cii Harrison, Charles Custis, present at banquet, xxvi Harrison, Ross G., delegate, .
.
.
xlvi Harshberger, John William, " The vegetation of the banana holes of Florida," .
xxiii Harvard University, delegate .
.
.
xlvi Haiir, Pedro M., letter, .... cxxxiv Hauke, Franz, letter, .... cxxxvii Hauthal, R., letter, .... cvii Haverford College, delegates, .
xlviii, xlix Hays, I. Minis, letter, .... lxii Hedin, Sven, letter, .... cxvii Heidelberger Akademie der Wissenschaften-Stiftung Henry Lang, letter, Heigel, Dr. von, letter, .
Heintz, E., letter, .
Hensen V., letter, .
Henshaw, Samuel, delegate, Hermann, C, letter, Hertwig, Richard, letter, Heuertz, F., letter, .
Hiers, Harry, letter, Higgins, Rev.
William J., C.S Hinson, R. J., letter, Hirase, Y., letter, .
Hirnanatomisches Institut, Zurich, letter, cxxxvi "History and position of the albino rat," H. H. Donaldson, xxiii Hochreutiner, B. P. C, letter, .
.
cxxxvii lxxxiv lxii cxix xcix xlvi .
cxxxviii cxxxvi cxxxix .
cxxxviii ., delegate, xlvi .
cxxxvii cxxxvi Hock, P. P. C, letter c Hockstetter, A., letter, .... cxxxvi Hodge, Frederick W., delegate, .
.
xlvi Hoernes, Moritz, letter, .... cxxxvi Holland, C. W., letter cxxxvi Holland, James W., delegate, .
.
xlvi Holland, William J., "David Alter, the first discoverer of spectrum analysis," xxiii present at banquet, .... xxvi Remarks at banquet, .
.
.
xxxvii delegate xlvi letter lxvii Holsti, cablegram, ..... cxli Hoorweg, J. L., letter cxxxix Horst, R., letter, c Horstmann, Walter, committee on entertainment, viii committee on finance, .
.
.
viii present at banquet, .... xxvi Horv&th, Geza, letter, .... cxxxvii Houston, Edwin J., " How the natural sciences can be made attractive to the young," xxiv Hovey, Edmund Otis, delegate, .
.
xlvi letters, lxxix, ci TIVE to the young," E. J. Houston, .
xxiv Howard, Leland 0., delegate, .
.
.
xlvi letters, lix, lxv Howe, Marshall Avery, "Reef-building and land-forming sea-weeds," .
.
xxiv delegate xlvi Howell, W. H., delegate, .
.
.
xlvi Ho wland, Henry R., letter, .
.
.
-lxv Howson, Henry, letter, .... lxxv Hoyle, William Evans, letter, .
.
.
cxxxvii Hrvatsko Naravoslovno Driistvo, letter, lxxxiv Hubrecht, A.
A. W., letter, .
.
.
cxxxvii Humphrey, George S., delegate, .
.
xlvi Hunter, W. D., letter, .... lix Hygienic Laboratory, Washington, letter, cxxxvii Ihering, H. von, cablegram, .
.
cxli Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History, delegate, xlv Indian Museum, Calcutta, letter, .
.
cxxxvii Inouye, Kinosuke, letter, .
.
cxix Institut general Psychologique, Paris, letter, cxxxvii Institut Geologic al Romaniel, letter, .
cxxxvii Institut National Genevois, letter, .
.
cxxxvii Institut Oc6anographique, letter, .
.
Ixxxv Institut Pasteur, letter Ixxxv Institute of Jamaica, letter, .
.
.
cxxxvii Instituto Geologico de Mexico, letter, .
cxxxvii Instituts Solvay, letter, .... cxxxvii Iowa Academy of Sciences, letter, .
.
cxxxvii Israel, With., letter, .... cxxxvi R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere, delegate, xlvii Jacobs, MerkelH., " Physiological characters of species," xxiv Jaderin, Edw., letter cxvii Jags, W. W. R., letter, .... cxxxvi Jardin Imp6rial de Botanique de St. Pdtersbourg, letter, cxxxvi Jefferson Medical College, delegate, .
xlvi Jennings, Herbert S., delegate, .
.
xlvi Jentink, F. A., letter, .... xciv cxlviii INDEX.
u xliv xlvi xlvi lxxviii lxxiii xciii cxxiii .
cxxxvii mjetnosti, cxxxvii xcviii cxxxviii g, cablecxli xlix lxxxvi cxxxvii cxli lxxvii Johns Hopkins University, delegate, Johnson, Charles W., delegate, Johnson, Emory R., delegate, letter Jones, Hugh Albert, letter, .
Joubin, L., letter, .
Joubin, P., letter, .
Judd, John W., letter, .
Jugoslavenske Akademie Znanosti 1 letter .
** Jungersen, Hector F. E., letter, Kaiser, Er., letter, .
.
.
Kaiser-Wilhelms Universitat, Strassbur gram, .
Kansas Academy of Science, delegate, letter, .
K k Karl Franzens-Umversitat, letter, Karpinsky, Alex.
Petrovic, cablegrams, Kedleston, Curzon of, letter, .
Keeley, Frank J., committee on meetings and addresses, .
.
.*.,.
* Keen, W. W., committee on invitations, letter Keller, Ida A., letter, .
Keller, W., letter, .
Kemp, James Furman, delegate, Kern, J. H., letter, .
.
Keynes, John Neville, letter, .
Kiesewetter, Ernst, letter, .
King, H. L., letter, .
King, Henry Churchill, letter, Kjobenhavns Universitet, letter, Knott, C. G., letter, Koch, Axel, letter, .
Koehne, Emil, letter, Koenigsberger, Leo, letter, Kolberg, Jos., letter, Korschelt, E., letter, .
.
Kosmos Gesellschaft der Naturfreunde, letter * Kraepel'in, (K.), letter, .
Krauske, letter, Kretschmer, Ernst, letter, Krmpoticu, Ivanu, letter, Kiihn, A., letter, .
.
Ktinckel d'Herculais, Jules, letter, Kiispert, Dr., letter, Laboratoire Maritime de Concarneau, letter, La Crois, A., letter, Lafayette College, delegate, .
Lagerburg, Carl, letter, .
Lagrelius, Axel, letter, .
Lambros, Sp., letter, Lang, Arnold, letter, Lankester, Sir Ray, letter, Lapicque, Louis, letter, .
Lathrop, William A., delegate, Latzel, Dr., letter, .
Lavachery, A., letter, LeComte, H., letter, Le Conte, Robert G., committee ment, .
arranges for banquet, Lee, Frederick S., delegate, .
LeGendre, Ch., letter, .
xxix Lehigh University, delegate, .
xlv f etter lxxxvni Lehman, Karl Bernhard, letter, .
exxxiv Leland Stanford Junior University, delegate, xlix K Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher, letters, .
lxxxix, cxxxvii vil .
vii .
lxi .
cv lxxxvii xlvi .
cxl exxiv .
V cxxxviii exxxv cxxxviii cxxxvii cviii cxxxvii .lxii lxxxiv cxxxvii cxli Stuttgart, lxxxvii xcvii lviii exxxvi lxxxiv cxxxviii exxxvi xevi Finistere, lxxxviii xciii xliv, xlv, 1 exxxvi cxvii .cxl cxxxvii cxxxvii xciii xlvi cxxxviii cxl xciii on entertainviii ix xlvi cxiv xlvii xci, xcii xlvii cxxxvii xlvii exxviii delegate, xlv xlv Lepri, Giuseppe, letter, Lewton, F. L., delegate, .
Leyst, E., letters, .
Libbey, William, delegate, letter, Lindgren, Waldemar, delegate.
Linhart, S. B., letter, Linnsean Society of New York, Linnean Society of London, delegate, Lucas, Frederick A., delegate, Loeb, Jacques, "Experiments on adaptation of ANIMALS TO HIGHER TEMPERATURES, delegate, .
Long, Brita, delegate, Lorentz, H. A., letter, Lory, Charles A., letter, Lubanesky, M., letter, Liihe, M., letter, .
Lunds Universitet, letter, K Lyceum Hosianum zu Braunsberg, xxiv xlvii xlvii lvi cxl xcii cvii cxxxvii letter, cxxxvii Lyman, Benjamin Smith, "Natural history MORALITY," XM X McClellan, George, committee on invitations, vii McCormick, Samuel Black, delegate, .
xlvii letter, exxviii MacCurdy, George G., delegate, .
.
xlvn Macfarlane, John Muirhead, "The relation OF PROTOPLASM TO ITS ENVIRONMENT, XXV delegate, .
.
.
McGill University, delegate, McKenzie, R. Tait, delegate, McMillan, Emerson, letter, McVey, Frank L., letter, Maerky, Charles, letter, .
Magyar Nemzeti Museum, delegate, A Magyar Nemzeti Museum, Zoological Section, 'letter cxxxvl A Ma'evar Nemzeti Muzeum Igazgat6saga, 'letter cxxxvii K. Magyar Termeszettudomanyi Tarsulat, letter, K Magyar Tudomany-Egyetem, letter, .
cxxxvii Magyar' TudomanvosAkademia, letter, ; .
xc Maiden, J. H., letter, .
.
cxxxix Majoni, J.
C, delegate * vii Mallet, John W., delegate, .
xlvn Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, letter, cxxxvii Mangin' Louis, letter, .
.
_ .
xcm Mann Camillus MacMahon, minute defining date xlvii xlvii ci cxl exxxv xlix of foundation, Maquenne, L., letter, Marchal, Edmond, letter, Marchi, Marco di, letter, Marine Biological Association Kingdom, delegate, .
Marine Biological Laboratory, delegate, xxi xciii Hi exxxix the United li Wood's Hole, xlviii of INDEX.
cxlix Martens, Dr., letter cxl Martin, K., letter, .
.
.
cxxxvi, cxxxvii Marlborough College Natural History Society, letter, ....... cxxxvii Maury, Carlotta J., "A contribution to the PALEONTOLOGY OP TRINIDAD," .
.
Xxiii Mayor, Eug., letter, .... cxxxix Mayor's address of welcome, .
.
x, xi Medin, A., letter, ...... liii Morris, David B., letter, .
.
.
cxl Meigs, Edward Browning, "The ash of smooth muscle," ...... xxiii Meltzer, Samuel J., delegate, .
.
.
xlvii " Methods of photographing wild birds," W. L. Baily, xxiv Meunier, Stanislas, letter, .
.
.
xciii Meyer, Arnold, letter, .... cxxii Meyer, Willy, letter, .... xcv Meyrich, Edward, letter, .
.
.
cxxxvii R. Microscopical Society, delegate, .
.
1 Miers, Henry A., letter, cxl Miller, John Anthony, delegate, .
.
xlvii "Mimicry in butterflies," H. Skinner, xxiv Mineralogical Society, London, letter, .
cxxxvii Imp.
Mineralogiceskoje Obseestvo, cablegram, cxli Minot, Charles Sedgwick, delegate, .
xlvi letters, cxl, cxxxiv Miramichi Natural History Association, letter, cxxxvii Missouri Botanical Garden, delegate, .
xlviii Mitchell, S. Weir, delegate, .
.
.
xlvii Mocenigo, Filippo Nani, letter, .
.
.
lxi Modi, Jivanji Jamshedji, letter, .
.
cxxxiv Mohler, John R., delegate, .
.
.
xlvii "Mollusk fauna of Northwest America," W. H. Dall Molthanoff, C, letter, .
Monakow, Constantin v., letter, Monnenmacher, F. A., letter, .
Montelius, Oscar, letter, .
Monterosato, Marchese de, letter, Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr., invitations, .
announcement of death of, ix, delegate, .... .
xlviii Montgomery, Thomas L., committee on meetings and addresses, .... vii delegate, ...... xlviii letter, .
.... cxxxvii Moore, George T., delegate, .
.
.
xlviii Moore, H. F., delegate xlviii Moore, J. Percy, committee on invitations, vii announcement of celebration, .
.
viii present at meeting, .... ix present at banquet, .... xxvi delegate, ...... xlviii acknowledgment, .... cxlii Moos, Fr., letter, cxxxvi Morgan, C. Lloyd, letter, .
.
.
cxxxvii Morgenstierne, Bredo, letter, .
.
.
lxxvi Morice, Francis David, letter, .
.
.
lxxiii Morris, Charles S., committee on finance, viii xxv cxxxv cxxxvi .
cxxxviii cxvii .
cxxxvii committee on vii xxi I. Moskofskoie Obshchestvo Iestestvo-Ispytatelei, letter, xci I. Moskovskij Universitet, letter, .
.
xcii Musee de Congo, letter, Muse d'Histoire Naturelle, Geneve, letter, cxxxviii Museo de la Plata, letter, .
.
.
cxxxviii Museu Paulista, cablegram, .
.
.
cxli Museum of Comparative Zoology, delegate, xlvi letter cxxxviii Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, Marseille, letter, cxxxviii Museum National Franchise d'Histoire Naturelle, letter, ...... xciii K. Museum fur Naturkunde, Berlin, letter, cxxxviii R. Museum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, letter, xciv Music, A., letter, cxxxvii Nachtrieb, Henry F., letter, .
.
.
xcv Nansen, Fridtjof, letter, .... cxxxviii Nathorst, A. G., letter, .... cxvii National Academy of Sciences, delegate, xliv "Natural history morality," B. S. Lyman, xxiv Natural History Society of British Columbia, letter, cxxxviii Natural History Survey of Minnesota, letter, xcv Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham and Newcastle-upon-Tyne, letter, cxxxviii Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Basel, letter, cxxxviii Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Danzig, cablegram, cxli Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Emden, letter, cxxxviii Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Freiburg i Br., letter, cxxxviii Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Gorlitz, letter, xcv Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Halle a. d. Saale, letter, cxxxviii Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Zurich, letter, cxxxviii Naturforschender Verein, Briinn, letter, cxxxviii Naturhistorische Gesellschaft, Niirnberg, letter, xcvi K. k. Naturhistorisches Hofmuseum, Wien, letter, xcvii Naturhistorisches Landesmuseum von Karnten, letter, ....... cxxxviii Naturhistorisch-medizinischer Verein, Heidelberg, letter, ....... xcviii Naturhistorischer Verein der P. Rheiulande u. Westfalens, letter, .... cxxxviii Naturhistorisches Museum zu Hamburg, letter, xcvii Naturhistoriske Forening, Kobenhavn, letter, xcviii Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis zu Bautzen, letter, cxxxviii Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Hamburg, letter, xcix Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Landshut i.
B., letter, ....... cxxxviii Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fur SchleswigHolstein, letter, ..... xcix Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Steiermark in Graz, letter, c Navds, Longin, S. J., letter, .
.
.
cxiii Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeuiging, letter, c cl INDEX.
Nederlandsche Entomologische Vereeniging, letter, ci Nehmann, E., letter, .... lxxxvii Neumayer, Ludwig, letter, .
.
.
cxxxvi "New species of Delphinodon," F. W. True, xxiii New York Academy of Sciences, delegate, xlvi; letter, ........ ci New York Aquarium, delegate, ... 1 New York Botanic Garden, delegate, .
xlvi New York Zoological Society, delegate, .
xliv Nichols, Edward L., delegate, .
.
xlviii Nicoli, Francesco, letter, .
.
.
cxxxiv Nieuwland, Julius A., delegate, .
.
xlviii Nijhoff, G. C., letter, cxl Nolan, Edward J., introduction, .
.
vii-ix preliminary committee, .
.
.
.
vii centenary committee, .
.
.
.vii committee on printing and publication, vii present at meeting, ix "Reminiscences," .
.
.
.xxi-xxiii present at banquet, .... xxvi Remarks at banquet, .
.
.
xxxix acknowledgment, .... cxli Nordenskiold, E., letter, .... cxvii Nordgaard, 0., letter, ..... cxl Northamptonshire Natural History Society and Field Club, letter, .... cxxxviii North Staffordshire Naturalists' Field Club, letter, ....... cxxxviii Northwestern University, letter, .
.
.
c ii Nova Scotian Institute of Science, letter, cxxxv:':?
Oberhessische Gesellschaft fiir Naturund Hei Ikunde.
Naturwissenschaftliche Abteilung, letter, cxxxviii Oberhummer, Eugen, letter, .
.
.
lxxix Oberlin College, letter, .... cxxxviii Obschestvo Ispytatelei Prirody pri Imp.
Kharkofskom Universitetie, letter, .
.
.
cxxxviii Ogden, C. Edgar, delegate, .
.
.
xlviii Oldenburgh, S. F., cablegram, .
.
cxli Orland, Ch., Aug., letter, .
.
.
lxxvi "Orthopteran inhabitants of the Sonoran creosote bush," J.
A. Rehn, .
.
xxiv Osborn, Henry Fairfield, "Tetraplast, or law of the four inseparable factors of evolution, .... XXV present at banquet, .
xxvi Remarks at banquet, xxxii delegate, xlviii R. Orto Botanico di Modena, letter, .
cxxxviii Osier, Sir William, letter, .
cxxxviii Ostermeyer, Franz, letter, cxxxii Owens, R. B., letter, lxxv Paarman, J. H., letter, .
cxxxv Palander, Louis, letter, .
cxvii Palmer, Samuel C, delegate, .
xlviii letter, ..... cxxxv Pantanelli, Dante, letter, cxiv Parker, George Howard, "Sensory a PPROPRIAtion as illustrated by the organs 01 f TASTE IN VERTEBRATES," XXV Pattenhausen, B., letter, .
cxli Payne, F., delegate, xlviii Penck, Alb., letter, .... cxxxvi Penniman, Josiah Harmar, delegate, xlviii Pennock, Edward, delegate, .
xlviii Pesci, Leo, letter, .... cxx Petersen, C. G.
Joh., letter, .
.
.
cxxxv Pettit, A., letter, .
... cxxxix Philadelphia College of Pharmacy, delegate, xlv letter, ciii Philadelphia Commercial Museums, delegate, li Philadelphia High School for Girls, delegates, xlvii, 1 letter, cv Philadelphia Pathological Society, letter, .
civ delegates, .... xlviii, xlix Phillips, Everett F., delegate, .
.
.
xlviii Physikalisch-okonomische Gesellschaft zu Konigsberg i. P., letter, .... cvii Physikalischer Verein zu Frankfurt a/M., letter, cxxxviii " Physiological characters of species," M. H. Jacobs, xxiv Phytopathologisch Laboratorium "Willie Commelin Scholten," letter, .
.
.
cxxxviii Pijper, F., letter, ..... cxxiv Pilsbry, Henry A., committee on printing and publication, vii " Onthe tropical element in the molluscan fauna of Florida," .
.
.
xxiv Pinncheon, Katherjne E., letter, .
.
cv Polevoy, H. Vladimir P., delegate, .
.
xlviii Pollard, Charles L., delegate, .
.
.
xlviii Polskiego Towarzystwa Przyrodnikow im.
Kopernika, cablegram, ..... cxli Pomona College, delegate, .
.
.
xliii Pontificia Accademia Romana die Nuovi Lincei, Roma, letter, cvi Popovici-Hatzeg, V., letter, .
.
.
cxxxvii Postinger, letter, liv Poulton, Edward B., letter, .
.
.
cxxxix Prain, D., letter, cxxxiv Pratt, Henry S., delegate, .
.
.
xlviii Preobrashensky, S., letter, .
.
.
xcii President's address, .... x-xx K. Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften, cablegram, cxli Princeton University, delegate, .
.
xlix Probizer, Dr., letter, .... liv Proceedings of the sessions, .
.
x-cxlii Prosinger, letter, cxxxviii Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, letter, .
.
.
cxxxix Przibram, H., letter, .... cxxxiv Publications in connection with celebration, viii Pulligny, Jean de, present at banquet, .
xxvi Remarks at banquet, .
.
.
xxxi delegate, xlviii Putnam, F. W., letter, .... cxxxix Quaintaince, A. L., letter, .
.
.
lxxiv Queensland Museum, letter, .
.
.
cxxxix Quevedo, Samuel A. Lafone, letter, .
.
cxxxviii Randa, A., letter, lxviii "Rate of growth of stony corals," T. W. Vaughan xxiv Rathbun, Richard, delegate, .
.
.
xlviii Redlich, letter, cxxi "Reef-building and Land-forming seaweeds," M. A. Howe, xxiv Rehn, James A. G., "The orthopteran inhabitants of the Sonoran creosote bush," xxiv Reid, Harry Fielding, letter, .
.
.
cxxxix INDEX.
cli Reinhard, L., letter cxxxviii Reishauer, Herm, letter, .... cxxxvi " Relation of protoplasm to its environment," J. M. Macfarlane, .... xxv "Reminiscences" of the Librarian, .
xxi-xxiii Renz, Anton, letter, .... cxxxvi Retzius, Gustav, letter, .... cxxxix Rhoads, Samuel N., delegate, .
.
.
xlix Richard, J., letter, lxxxv Richards, Theodore W., delegate, .
.
xlix Riesman, David, delegate, .
.
.
xlviii letter civ Riviere, Emile, letter, .... cxxxix Robins, E., letter, cxxviii Robson, C. E., letter, .... cxxxviii Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, delegate, xlvii letter, ...... cxxxix Roemer Museum, letter, .... cvii Rohwer, S. A., letter, .... lxxiv Rolle, Dr., letter, cxli Rorer, J. T., delegate, .... xlix Rosenvinge, L. Kolderup, letter, .
.
cxxxv Rossi, Vittorio, letter, ..... cxl Rotch, Abbott Lawrence, delegate, .
xlix Rothermel, John G., delegate, .
.
xlix Rothschild, Hon.
Walter, letter, .
.
cxxxix Roule, Louis, letter xciii Roux, E., letter, lxxxv Roux, W., letter, ..... cxxxix Royal Dublin Society, cablegram, .
.
cxli Royal Irish Academy, letter, .
.
.
cxxxvii Royal Society of Canada, delegate, .
xlv letter, ... .
.
cxxxix Royal Society of Edinburgh, delegates, .
xlvii, 1 letter, cviii Royal Society of London, delegate.
.
xliii Royal Society of New South Wales, letter, cxxxix Royal Society of Victoria, letter, .
.
cxxxix Ruffini, N., letter, cxx Russkoje Entomologiceskoje Obscestvo, .
cix Imp.
Russkoje Geograficeskoje Obscestvo, cablegram, cxlii Ryan, Leon Alonzo, "The ash of smooth muscle," xxiii Rykatchew, M., letter cxix Sachs.
(Grossherzogl.
und Herzogl.)
Gesamt-Universitat, letter, cxxxix Sachsisch-Thiiringischer Verein fur Erdkunde zu Halle a. S., letter, .... cxxxix K. Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, letters, ex, cxi Safford, William E., delegate, .
.
.
xlix St. Louis Academy of Sciences, delegate, .
xlviii Salin, Bernhard, letter, .... Salomon, Wilhelm, letter, Sanctis, Pierre de, letter, San Diego Society of Natural History, Santesson, Henrik, letter, Sarasin, Ed., letter, .
Sarawak Museum, letter, Sars, G. 0., letter, .
Sauvage, H. E., letter, Sayre, L. E., delegate, letter, Schaefer, B., letter, .
cxvn xcviii cvi letter, cxxxix cxvii cxii cxxxix cxxxix cxxxix xlix Ixxxvi cxli Schantz, H. L., delegate, .... xlix Scharff, Robert F., letter, .
.
.
cxxxix Schenck, A., letter, ..... cxxxix Schenck, F., letter, cxl Schlesische Gesellschaft fur vaterlandische Cultur, letter, cxxxix Schmid, letter, cxl Schuchert, Charles, delegate, .
.
.
xlix Schulz, Paul, letter, .... exxxiv Schweizerische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, letter cxii Scott, Duncan C, letter, .
.
.
cxxxix Scott, William Berryman, delegate, .
xlix R. Scuola Superiore di Agricoltura in Milano, letter, cxxxix R. Scuola Superiore di Agricultura in Portici, delegate, xliv Semenov-Tjan-Shanskij, Andrea, letter, .
cix cablegram, .
... cxlii Semenov-Tjan-Shanskij, P., letter, .
.
cix Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, letter, cxxxix cablegram cxlii "Sensory appropriation as illustrated in the organs of taste Invertebrates," G. H. Parker, xxv Shahan, Rev.
Thomas J., letter, .
.
lxvii Sharpless, Isaac, delegate, .
.
.
xlix Simpson, Edwin I., committee on entertainment, viii assistance rendered, .
... ix Skinner, Henry, preliminary committee, vii committee on printing and publication, vii " Mimicry in butterflies," .
.
xxiv delegate, xlix Smith, Alexander, delegate, .
.
.
xlix Smith, Allen J., delegate, .
.
xlix letter, civ Smith, Edgar Fahs, delegate, .
.
.
xlix letter, exxii Smithsonian Institution, delegates, .
xlv, xlviii, 1 letter, cxii Sociedad Aragonesa de Ciencias Naturales, delegate, xliii letter, cxiii Sociedad Cientifica Antonio Alzate, delegate, xlvi Sociedad Malaguena de Ciencias, letter, .
cxiii Societa Geografica Italiana, delegate, .
xlvii Societa Italiana per il Progresso delle Scienze, cablegram, cxlii Societa Italiana di Scienze Naturali, Milano, letter, cxxxix Societa di Lettere e Conversazione scientifiche, Genova, delegate, .... xliv Societa dei Naturalisti e Matematici in Modena, letter, ....... cxiv Societa Zoologica Italiana, letter, .
.
cxiv R. Societas Scientiarum Bohemica, letter, cxv R. Societas Scientiarum Upsaliensis, cablegram, cxlii Socidte' de Biologie, letter, .
.
.
cxxxix Soci6t6 Botanique et d'Etudes scientifiques du Limousin, letter, ..... cxxxix Soci6t6 Botanique de France, delegate, .
1 letter, cxv clii INDEX.
Soctete' Entomologique de France, delegate, xlvi letter, cxxxix Soci6t6 f rancaise de Min6ralogie, letter, .
cxxxix Soci^te" Linn^enne de Lyon, letter, .
.
cxxxix SociSte" des Naturalistes Luxembourgeois, letter, cxxxix SociiSte' Imp.
des Naturalistes de Moscow, letter, xci Soci^te" Neuchateloise des Sciences Naturelles, letter, cxxxix Sociele" Royale des Sciences de Liege, letter, cxxxix Soci6t6 des Sciences de Nancy, letter, .
cxxxix Soci6t6 des Sciences, des Arts et des Lettres du Hainaut, letter, cxl Soci6t6 des Sciences Naturelles et Arch6ologiques de la Creuse, letter, .... cxl Soci^te" Vaudoise d'Histoire et d'ArchSologie, letter, cxl Soci6t6 Zoologique de France, delegates, xliii, xliv, xlviii Soci^te" Royale Zoologique et Malacologique de Belgique, letter cxl Society of American Zoologists, delegate, li Society for the Development of Experimental Sciences, Moscow, delegate, .
.
xlviii South African Association for the Advancement of Science, delegate, .
.
.
.
li Southern California Academy of Sciences, letter, cxvi Spalding, W. A., letter, .... cxvi Spitaler, R., letter lxxii Spiteri, Z. Rodriques, letter, .
.
.
cxiii Stadtisches Museum fiir Naturund Heimatkunde, Magdeburg, letter, .... cxl State Agricultural College, Fort Collins, letter, cxl State Natural History Museum, Springfield, 111., letter, cxl State University of Iowa, delegate, .
.
xliii Staten Island Association of Arts and Sciences, delegates, .... xliv, xlvi, xlviii Stav, L. A., lettre, cxl Stavanger Museum, letter, ... cxl Steindachner, Franz, letter, .
.
.
xcvii Stejneger, Leonhard, delegate, .
xlix Stelling, Ed., letter, .... cxix Sterling Natural History and Archaeological Society, letter, cxl Sternberg, Geo., M. letter, ... cxl Stevens, Nettie M., delegate, .
.
.
xlix Stevenson, J. J., delegate, .
.
xlix Stockholms Hogskola, letter, .
.
.
cxvii Stone, Witmer, committee on printing and publication, vii committee on entertainment, .
.
viii "Fauna and flora op the New Jersey pine barrens," xxv Strasburger, E., letter, .... cxl Sudworth, George B., delegate, .
.
xlix Suess, E., letter, cxl Supino, D., letter, cxl Surgeon-General's Office, delegate, .
.
li K. Svenska Vetenskapsakademien, letter, cxviii Sveuska Sallskapet for Antropologi och Geografi, delegate xlv letter, cxvii 1 xlvii, 1 1 cxxxvii cxl lv cxl Swain, Joseph, delegate, .
Swarthmore College delegates, Swingle, Walter T., delegate, .
Szalay, Invre v., letter, .
Tapie, A., letter, Tarnowski, St., letter, Teixeira, Gomez, letter, .
"TETRAPLASY, OR LAW OF THE FOUR INSEPARABLE factors of evolution," H. F. Osborn, XXV Texas Academy of Sciences, delegate, .
xlviii Teylers Stichting, letter, .... cxl Thomas 0., letter, cxl Thomsen, Vilh., cablegram, .
.
.
cxli Thornburg, C. L., letter, .... lxxxviii Thurgauische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, letter, cxl Tietze, Emil, letter, lxxx Tittmann, 0.
H., letter, .... cxxxv Tokyo Geographical Society, letter, .
cxix Torrey Botanical Club, delegate, .
.
xlv Toula, Franz, letters, .
.
.
cxl.cxxxi Tower, Hon.
Charlemagne, committee on entertainment, vni Townsend, Charles H., delegate, .
.
1 Tromso Museum, letter, .... cxl Trondhjems Biologiske Station, letter, .
cxl "Tropical element in the molluscan fauna of Florida," H. A. Pilsbry, .
.
_ xxiv Trotter, Spencer, committee on meetings and addresses, vii "The faunal divisions of eastern North America in relation to vegetation, xxiv Trouessart, E., letter, .... xciii True, Frederick William, " A new species of Delphinodon," .... xxiii delegate, ..._ ' Tryon, Charles Z., committee on entertainment, viii Tscherychew, F. N., cablegrams, .
.
cxli Tsentralnaia Fizicheskaia Observatoria Nicolas, letter, cxix Tucker, Henry, committee on entertainment, vii arranges for banquet, Tumbult, Dr., letter, Turner, Wm., letter, Tyrrell, J.
B., letter, Ulanowski, letter, .
Umoff, N., letter, .
United States Bureau of Fisheries, United States Forest Service, delegate, United States National Museum, IX cxli cviii lxvi lv xci delegate, xlviii xlix delegate, xlix cxl cxl Universidade do Porto, lettr, .
R. Universita di Pisa, letter, .
R. Universita degli Studi in Bologna, letter, cxx R. Universita degli Studi in Padova, letter, cxl R. Universita degli Studi di Siena, letter, cxl Universita di Torino, delegate, .
.
xliv letter, cxx Universitat Heidelberg, letter, .
.
cxxi INDEX.
cliii K. Universitiit Marburg, letter, K. k. Universitat, Wien, letter, Universitat, Zurich, letter, Universite Catholique de Louvain, letter, Universite Egyptienne, letter, .
University Laval, letter, .
Universite libre de Bruxclles, letter, .
University de Lyon, letter, University de Toulouse, letter, .
R. Universiteit, Groningen, letter, .
R. Universiteit, Leiden, letter, R. Universiteit te Utrecht, letter, .
K. Universitetet i Upsala, cablegram, University of Athens, letter, .
University of California, delegate, .
University of Cambridge, delegate, letter, University of Chicago, delegate, University of Cincinnati, letter, University of Colorado, delegate, .
letter, ..... University of Durham Philosophical delegate, University of Edinburgh, letter, University of Glasgow, delegate, University of Illinois, delegate, University of Indiana, delegate, University of London, letter, .
University of Michigan, delegate, .
University of Minnesota, delegate, .
University of Missouri, delegate, .
University of Montana, letter, University of North Carolina, letter, University of North Dakota, letter, University of Notre Dame, delegat letter, University of Oxford, delegate, letter, .... Pennsylvania, University of letter, University cxl cxxi cxxii cxxiii cxl cxl cxl cxxiii cxl cxl cxxiv cxl cxli cxl xlvii xliii cxxiv xlv cxxv 1 cxxv Society, xliii cxxvi xliv xliii xlviii cxl xlv xliii xlv cxl cxl cxl e, xlviii cxxvii xlvii, xlix cxl delegates, xlviii, xlix, 1 cxxviii of Pittsburg, delegates, xliv, xlvi, xlvii letter, ...... cxxviii University of Texas, delegate, .
.
.
xlviii Imp.
University of Tokio, cablegram, .
cxli University of Virginia, delegate, .
.
xlvii letter, cxxix University of Wisconsin, delegate, .
.
xlvi C. k. Universytet imienia cesarza Franciszka I Lemberg, letter, ..... cxxx Van Biervliet, J., letter, .... cxxi Van der Hoop, D., letter, ... cj Van Tieghem, Ph., letter, .
.
.
xciij Vasseuer, G., letter cxxxviii Vauclain, Samuel M., delegate, .
.
1 Vaughan, T. Wayland, "Rate of growth of STONY CORALS," .... XXiv delegate, _ 1 Vaux, George, Jr., preliminary committee, vii committee on meetings and addresses, vii committee on finance, .
.
viii "Vegetation of the banana holes of Florida," J. W. Harshberger, .... xxiii Veillon, H., letter, cxxxviii Veit, I., letter, cxli Vejdovsky, F., letter, .... cxli Venables, Francis, letter, .... cxl Verein fur Erdkunde zu Dresden, letter, cxli Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenberg, letter, .... cxli Verein ftir Geschichte und Naturgeschichte der Baar und der angrenzenden Landesteile, letter, cxli Verein fur Naturkunde zu Cassel, letter, cxli Verein fiir naturwissenschaftliche Unterhaltung, letter, .
.
cxli in Wi'irtcxxxi Verein fiir vaterliindische Naturkunde temberg, letter, .... Verein zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher cxxxi cxli Kenntnisse in Wien, letter, Vereinigte Friedrichs-Universitat, letter Verneau, Ren<, letter, Verrie, Madeline, delegate, K. Vetenskaps Akademien, delegate Vidal, Louis M., letter, .
Videnskab Selskabet i Kristiania, delegate, Viereck, Henry L., delegate, .
Virginia Geological Survey, delegate, Voigt, letter, Vosseler, F., letter, .... Vrba, C, letter, .... Vrba, K., letter, .... Vries, Hugo de, letter, .
Waals, J. D. van der, letter, .
Wagner Free Institute of Science, delegate, Wahnschaffe, F., letter, .
Walcott, Charles D., delegate, letter, .... Waldheim, A. Fischer de, letter, Walker, James J., letter, .
Wallace, John F., delegate, .
Walkin, Axel, letter, Wangerin, A., letters, Ward, R. M., delegate, .
Warfield, Ethelbert D., delegate, Warren, Joseph W., delegate, .
Washington Academy of Sciences, delegate, letter, ..... Washington, Henry S., delegate, .
Watson, Thomas L., delegate, Weber, L., letter, .... Webster, Francis M., delegate, letter, Wedderburn, J. H. M., delegate, .
Weideman, C. A., letter, .
Weise, Franz, letter, Wesenburg-Lund, D., letter, .
Westerdijk, Joh'a, letter, Western Society of Engineers, delegate Wettstein, R. v., letter, .
Wexweiler, Emile, letter, Wheeler, George, letter, .
Wheeler, William M., delegate, Whitaker, Milton C, delegate, Wiedersheim, R., letter, .
Wijhe, J. W. van, letter, .
Wilder, Burt G., letter, .
Wildman, Edward E., delegate, Willcox, Joseph, delegate, Willey, Arthur, delegate, Williams, Allie W., delegate, .
Williams, Gardner F., delegate, xlv cxxxiv xlix 1 1 lxxxii cxxxiii cxxv cxv cxli lvi xlix lxxi 1 cxii cxxxvi lxxiii 1 cxvii lxxxix, cxxxvii 1 1 1 xliv cxli 1 1 xcix 1 cxxxvi 1 ciii cxxxvi cxxxv cxxxviii 1 cxxxii cxxxvii lxxiii 1 1 cxli cxli cxli 1 li li li li cliv INDEX.
Wilson, Edmund B., delegate, .
.
li letter, cxli Wilson, William P., delegate, ... li Windisch, Ernest, letter, .... cxi Winsor, Henry, committee on entertainment, viii Winsor, William D., committee on entertainment, viii Wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft in Strassburg, letter, cxli Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology, delegate xlv letter, .
.... cxxxii Woodward, Robert S., letter, .
.
.
lxvi Wyoming Historical and Geological Society of Wilkesbarre, delegate, .... xlviii Yale University Museum, delegate, .
xlix Yamasaki, N., letter, .... cxxxvi Zeiller, R., letter, cxv Zeuthen, H. G., letter, .... cxxxv K. k. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft, Wien, cxxxii Zoologische Gesellschaft, Hamburg, letter, cxxxiii Zoologische Station, Naples, cablegram, .
cxlii K. Zoologisches und Anthropologisch-ethnographisches Museum, letter, .
.
cxxxiii Zoologisches Institut der Universitat, Marburg, letter, cxli Zubaty, Josef, letter cxv Zur Strassen, 0., letter, .... cxxxix MM WHOI I.1KKAKY flSC c
