CATALOGUE OF CRUSTACEA FROM THE ISTHMUS OF PANAMA.
COLLECTED BY J.
A. McNEIL.
BY T. HALE STREETS.
BRACHYURA.
MAIOIDEA.
Family MAIIDEA.
Subfamily Pisinae.
Omalacantlia, nov. gen. Carapax pyriform as in Pisa.
Orbit complete above and below, oval, superior border armed with a triangular tooth.
Eye verj' small; peduncle short.
Rostrum well developed, bifurcated nearly to base, horns divergent, apices convergent ; praeorbital tooth flattened, obtuse; external anteunai not hidden by rostrum, but completely exposed, on same level as rostrum ; first and second articles broad, flattened, clubbed at distal extremit}'.
This genus is very closely allied to that little known genus, Micropli7-y^^^ M. Edw.
It is readily distinguished from Microphryii hy its greater triangular form (not being broader than long); by the broad, club-shaped articles of external antenuii?
(in llicrophrya they are cylindrical), and by the antero-lateral border of carapax beiiig less inflated.
Omalacantha Mrsuta, nov. 5p.
Carapax triangular, convex, tuberculated, pilose ; hairs hooked at extremity; prominent spine projecting from junction of anterolateral with postero-lateral border; another smaller spine below, and in front of this on branchial region ; spine on hepatic region below and behind external angle of orbit; one on side of branchial region, near the groove separating it from hepatic; row of five small tubercles on inferior border of hepatic region ; on gastric region tubercles arranged in the form of the letter T; an arcuate row of four tubercles on intestinal region ; another single one below these at posterior extremity of same region.
Longitudinal row of hairs on horn of rostrum, and continuing on lateral portion ' For description, see ''Zoologie Expedition dans rAinerique du Sud, p;ir Castlenau."
[December 5, of branchial region.
Tooth on superior margin of orbit obtuse ; orbit obtuse at external angle.
External antennas ciliated ; ros» trum slightly reflexed, more so in female than in male.
The chclipeds larger in male than in female, smooth, with exception of arm, ■which presents a row of tubercles on upper surface; covered with rounded spots of a violet-red color.
Fingers closely approximated and finely denticulated at extremity ; in female approximated along their whole length.
Two or three rudimentary tubercles on third article of second pair of feet.
A deep red spot at tlie projecting lateral angle of carapax.
Color reddish shade.
Length, 1.37 inch; breadth, .9-1 inch.
Subfamily Mitiiracin^.
Mithraculus coronatus, Stimpson.
An.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., vol.
VII., p. 186.
CANCROIDEA.
Family CANCRID^.
Subfamily Xanthine.
Carpilius corallinus, M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
d«s Crust., torn.
I., p. 381.
Actaea labyrinthica, Stimpfon, An.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., vol.
VII., p. 204.
Menippe mercenaria, Stimpson.
Cancer mercenaria, Say.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat, Sei.
Phila., vol.
I., p. 448.
Panopaeus chilensis, EJw.
et Lucas.
D'tDrbigny's Voy.
en Am.
Merid., Crust., p. 16; pL VIII., fig.
1.
Family ERIPHIDJE.
Subfamily Eriphin/E.
Eriphia gonagra, M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., tvm.
I., p. 426, pi.
XVI., figs.
16 and 17.
Dana.
U. S. Expl.
Esped., Crust., vol.
I., p. 25'0.
Family PORTUNID^E.
Subfamily Lupin,.e.
Xupa dicantlia, M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., torn.
I., p. 451.
Dana, U.S. E.xpl.
Exped., Crust., vol.
I., p. 272, pi.
XVI., fig.
7.
Lupa rubra, M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., tool.
I., p. 454.
ISTI.]
OCYPODOIDEA.
Family MACROPIITHALMID.E, Subfamily Ocypodin^.
Ocypoda Gaudichaudii, Edw.
et Lucas.
DOrbignj-'s Voy.
en Am.
M^iid., Crujt., p* 2(5, pi.
XI., fig.
4.
Ocypoda rhombea, M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., torn.
II., p. 46.
Family GRAPSID^.
Subfitmily Grapsin^.
Grapsus pictus, Latr.
; M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., torn.
II., p. 86.
Family GACARCINID^.
Subfamily Ucain^.
Uca lavis, M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., torn.
II., p. 22.
ANOMOURA.
Family HIPPID^.
Hippa emerita, Pabr.
: M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., torn.
11., p. 205.
Family PORCELLANID^.
Petrolisthes armatus, Stimpson.
An.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., vol.
II-, p. 73.
Por^ eellana arniata, Gibbes, Proc.
Am.
Assoc, ISoO, p. 176.
Petrolistlies ocoidentalis, Stimpson.
An.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., vol.
VII., p. 73.
Family PAGURID^.
Subfamily Paguki?s.<k.
Aniculus longitarsis, nov. sp.
This species is very closely allied to A. fypicus, Dana, but difftii's from it in the greater length of the tarsus of the ambulatory feet.
In Paguri.is aniculus (Aniculus h/picus^ Dana), Milne EdAvards describes the tarsus as being " extremely short."
Xo statement is made as to its length in comparison with the preceding article; but in Dana's figure, and in that figured in Quoy and (iaymard, Y03-.
de I'Urania, it is shorter than the preceding article.
In A. longifarsis it is always longer.
The median areolet is distinct, trapezium-shaped, and is not produced to the posterior edge of the gastric region.
[December 5, Family CENOBITID^E.
Cenobita diogenes, Latr.
M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., torn.
II., p. 240, pL XXII., figs.
II and 1.3.
Cenobita intermedia, nov. sp.
Anterior portion of carapax convex, narrowed in front, -granulated.
Differs from C. purpurea, Stm., in not being more granulated posteriorly than anteriorly, nor are the granules acute and setous.
Lateral portion pilous ; margin of branchial region projecting, prominent.
E^^^es compressed, triangular, acute ; peduncles nearlj' as high as long, finely granulated on superior surface.
Til)ia of the third pair of legs, left side, produced at inferior border; ultimate and penultimate articles convex externally', smooth and punctate as in C. purpurea; tarsus irregularly quadrilateral, longer than right ; inferior surface concave; fine, close-set row of black-tipped spinules on inferior surface of tarsi of second and third legs, left side.
Legs spinulose (with exception mentioned), hairj'^; tarsi triangular, concave on inferior surface.
External surface of larger hand sparsely granulated; granules of a pearly appearance.
Coxa?
of fifth pair produced in male.
Length of carapax .94 inch.
Cenobita panamensis, nov. sp.
Carapax as in C. intermedia.
Eyes also similar.
Tibia of third leg, left side, slightly produced at inferior angle; penultimate article convex externally and granulated, in this respect differing from C. purpurea and C. intermedia; tarsus irregularly quadrilateral, shorter than right, thereby differing from C. perlata and C. intermedia; row of spinules on supero-lateral margin; row on superior surface; spinules sparsely on external surface; denticulated ridge on inferior surface of tarsi of second and third pairs ; spinules black-tipped ; inferior surface not so much evacuated as in C. intermedia, triangular.
Larger hand granulated ; granules acute, except on external surface, black-tipped.
Coxae of fifth pair produced in male.
Length of carapax 1.62 inch.
1871.]
MACROURA.
Family GEBID.E.
Gebia longipollex, nov. sp.
Front tridentate ; mirldle tooth largest, and presents at its extremity two small obtuse teeth, which give to it a l)ifid appearance when looked at from above; furrowed in the median line; small spine on antero-lateral margin of carapax just over the external antennas; anterior portion of carapax rough and hirsute; scabrous surface reaching about halfway to the dorsal suture.
Hands equal, smooth, without spines or teeth, marked with longitudinal rows of hair; row on inferior margin ver^^ long; thumb long, reaching almost to extrerait}^ of finger, slightl}' incurved ; movable finger very pilose, with two teeth on inferior margin — one near base, and one near apex ; latter receives point of thumb ; two very small teeth situated together near base of thumb ; spine on upper and lower apex of carpus, and two small ones on antero-lateral margin ; spine on distal extremity of arm.
Second pair of legs ciliate above and below at extremity ; tarsus smooth ; third article ciliate below, and armed with spine above at distal exti'emlty ; remaining pairs unarmed.
Caudal segment rectangular.
Length, 1.12 inch.
Family PALINURID.E.
Panulirus guttatus, Gray.
Palinurus guttatus, Latr.
Ann.
du Mus., torn.
III., p. 393; M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., torn.
II., p. 297, pi.
XXII., fig.
1.
Panulirus americanus.
Palinurus americanus.
Lamarck.
M. Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust., tuiu.
II., p. 298.
Family PAL^EMONIDoE.
Subfamily Alphein^.
Alpheus bispinosus, nov. sp.
Carapax compressed ; rostrum short, acute; surface between the e^-es carinated; anterior border of e3'e-shields rounded, and without spines.
Lamelliform appendages of external antennse not quite as long as base, little longer than base of internal antennre.
Second article of internal antennae twice as long as first and third ; basal tooth of inner antennas not longer than first article; basal spine of outer antennas short, and hooked inward.
Hands of first pair of feet unequal ; margins of larger hand indented near the [December 5, fingers; lower indentation deep; snrfaces sulcated, uneven; margins of the fingers beset with long hairs; movable finger considerably hooked at extremity ; smaller hand cylindrical and regular ; fingers longer than palmar portion of the hand ; inner edges of approximated borders pubescent ; no spines on arm.
Feet of second pair but little longer than third ; first joint of carpus as long as second and third, and little longer than third, fourth, and fifth ; fifth not as long as third and fourth, and shorter than hand ; third article of following pairs of legs devoid of spine at inferior apex.
Length, 1.5 inch.
Family PEN^ID.^.
Panaeus occidentalis, nov. sp.
Rostrum longer than the lamelliform appendages of the outer antennas, recurved, pointed at extremitj'.
In the examination of a number of specimens the majority presented ten teeth on the superior margin of the rostrum, and four on the inferior; may vary from eight to eleven on the upper, and from four to five on the lower border.
Carapax carinated almost to posterior edge ; sulcus on each side of rostrum terminating about midwa}'^ the carapax ; spine situated on lateral portion near anterior border, opposite the insertion of superior antennae ; ridge running from this spine obliquely downward and backward; second spine behind, and on a lower level than the first, and separated fi'om it by a sulcus ; two smaller sulci forming tvvo sides of a triangle around base of second spine.
Eye large and rounded ; sulcus on external border of peduncle.
Flagella of superior antennae usually shorter than antennary peduncle (in one large specimen the}' were longer).
Bases of two first pairs of legs armed with three spines — two on first pair, and one on second ; terminal segment of abdomen sulcated, pointed, devoid of lateral spines; penultimate and antepenultimate segments carinated — the ridge commencing on the segment before the antepenultimate, and terminating at the end of penultimate in an acute spine.
Length of large specimen five inches.
The greatest aflfinities of this species are with r.indicus, Edvv.
18T1.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
245 October 3, 1871.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Eighteen members present.
Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to some observations made by him last spring before the Academy in regard to the office of bud scales and involucral bracts.
The general impression was that they were formed for the purpose of protecting the tender parts beneath.
At that time he exhibited branches oi Fraxinus excelsior on which some of the buds were entirely naked, and others clothed with scales in the usual manner.
They could scarcely be for protection in this instance, as both were equally hardy.
He now had to exhibit an ear of corn which had been produced without the usual involucral bracts or husks, and yet was as perfect as if clothed in the usual way, showing that the husk was of not much importance as a protecting agent.
An interesting point was that this ear had been formed on the end of a male panicle or tassel.
It was not uncommon to find scattered grains of corn amongst male flowers, but a perfect ear like this he had never before seen.
The ear was eight-rowed, and contained two hundred perfect grains.
It was the variety known as " popcorn."
Dr. Howell announced the death of Mr. Chas.
Wilson Peale.
October 10.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Eighteen members present.
Remarks on the Minerals of Mount Mica.
— Prof. Leidy remarked that the specimens of minerals presented this evening by Ml".
Bement and himself were part of a collection which ihey had obtained at Mt.
Mica, near Paris, Oxford Co., Maine.
At the invitation of, and in company with.
Dr. A. C. Hamlin, of Bangor, they had recently made a visit to that locality, celebrated for its beautiful tourmalines and other interesting minerals.
The position in which these occur is a ledge of coarse albitic granite upon the brow of a hill known as Mt.
Mica.
The granite has been quarried in the search of mineral specimens to the extent of about forty square yards, and, thus exposed, appears mainly composed of a tough, white, amorphous feldspar, without distinct cleavage, and with quartz sparingly disseminated.
The white feldspar is mottled with black tourmalines, varying in size from an inch to a foot in length.
These are brittle, and so firmly fixed in position as rarely to be isolated in an entire condition.
In many positions the quartz and feldspar occur more intimately intermingled in the condition of graphic granite.
18T2.]
part iil— it Most parts of the rock are devoid of mica, but in some positions an abundance of large crystals of muscovite are mingled with the other constituents.
The muscovite, of a smoky color, often contains compressed crystals of tourmaline, mostly olivegreen and translucent, simple or compound, and more or less radiant.
Apparently occupying recesses in the common rock, there occur minerals of a difi'erent character.
Masses of pink lepidolite, associated with laminar albite, smoky quartz, cleavable masses of ambh'gonite, cookeite, and variouslj^ colored tourmalines; silvery white mica containing apple-green, friable tourmalines; and usually oi^aque greenish or nearly white beryls.
Contiguous with these curious associations of minerals, pockets are met with filled with decomposed albite, crystals of smoky quartz, detached botryoidal masses of cookeite and tourmalines.
The finest specimens of the latter are raked together with the other loose contents from the pockets.
They are also found imbedded in some of the more solid associated rocks, the lepidolite, the cookeite, and the smoky quartz.
The tourmalines are remarkable, being usually partly colored of various shades of green passing into red, and partially opaque to transparent.
Small cr3'stals from half an inch to an inch and a half in length, and from half a line to the fourth of an inch in thickness, occur abundantly imbedded in the cookeite.
In spongy masses of the latter, they appear closel}^ invested with thick sheaths of the same substance.
These smaller tourmalines are visually bright grass-green, and transparent, but others are nearly colorless, and green or pink at one end.
Frequently they are fissured, partially decomposed, and sometimes the decomposition extends along the axis, so as to render the crj^stals tubular.
The tourmalines of the pink lepidolite usually occur in comparatively large crj^stals, firmly imbedded or even incorporated with the lepidolite and albite.
These are opaque and brittle, and rarely obtained except in fractured specimens imbedded in the inclosing mineral.
They are dark indigo-blue, constituting the variety indicolite, but oftener are dark olive-green with a rose-pink exterior, which at times appears gradually to pass into the condition of the surrounding lepidolite.
The largest and finest tourmalines, obtained from the loose material of the pockets previously mentioned, almost invariably occur in a fractured condition.
Two pockets exposed in our presence, communicated with fissures of the surrounding rock, and the contents, as raked forth, were observed to be quite moist.
During the winter their contents are probably frozen, and the freezing of water in fine fissures of the tourmalines probably accounts for their being usuall3' found in a fractured state.
The tourmalines of the cavities occur from those of a small size up to such as measure three or four inches or more in length, and from half an inch to an inch and a half in diameter, doubl)^ termi[January 16, nated, with one extremity flat, and the other three-sided, with the angles or borders truncated.
Sometimes the cr3'stals occur opaque, dark green at one end, becoming bright grass-green and transparent at the middle, and passing into cherrj^ or rose-red and transparent at the other end.
Occasionall}' the green color is nearljabsent, and we have an achroite with a greenish hue, passing successively into a deeper shade of green and dark green, or into pink and deep cherr^'-red, usuallj^ sheathed with a thin laj-er of greenish hue at the opposite end.
In a cr3'stal exhibited, measuring four inches in length by threefourths of an inch in diameter, flat at one end, and three-sided at the opposite end, the first inch is dark opaque green, the second inch is bright grass-green and transparent, the third inch is pale pink within and pale green without, and the fourth inch is cherryred within and pale green without.
A segment exhibited of a transparent prism of achroite, an inch long and an inch and a half in diameter, has upon one end a patch of cookeite.
This mineral often occurs investing the ends, fractured surfaces, and sides of the tourmalines.
Another specimen exhibited consists of a crystal an inch and a half long and ten lines thick, with a three-sided termination, deeph^ striated, and of a dark green color.
Broken across near the base, the interior exhibits a spherical nodule of transparent achroite the third of an inch in diameter.
Some magnificent crystals of the kind indicated have been for many years in possession of Dr. Hamlin and his father, who first discovered the locality from whence they were obtained.
Dr. Hamlin has more recently thoroughly explored the locality and investigated the character of its tourmalines, an account of which he proposes to give us in a future essay on the subject.
October IT.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Nineteen members present.
Remarks on Fossils from Oregon.
— Prof. Leidy directed attention to some fossils, part of a collection from Oregon, submitted to his examination by Rev.
Thomas Condon, and indicated in the Proceedings of October 18th, 1870.
One of the fossils, a brain cast, or rather a cast of the interior of the cranium of a large mammal, has about the same form and size as that of the horse.
The cerebral hemispheres are nearlj' as much convoluted as in the latter, and measure about four and a half inches in length and breadth.
It may pertain to a large tapiroid animal, though I suspect it belonged to an oreodont.
1872.]
A large atlas, perhaps belonging to the same animal as the former siDecimeu, measures five inches in breadth between the outer prominent borders of the articuhir concavities for the occipital condj'les, and it is about four and a half inches from the neural tubercle to the hypapoph3'sis.
It differs in several important points from the atlas of the rhinoceros, horse, ox, etc., and the want of sufficient means of comparison prevents a determination of its near relationship.
Another fossil, labelled "Alkali Flats," consists of the greater part of the crown apparently of a last upper premolar or perhaps of a transverse pair of lobes of a true molar, of an animal as large as that to which the preceding specimens belonged.
The tooth approaches in character the corresponding portion in the oreodonts, but differs in the proportion atel}'^ less degree of development of the inner lobe of the crown as compared with the outer one, and in the greater degree of development of the inner basal ridge.
The crown measures an inch and a third in transverse diameter.
These fossils appear to indicate an unknown pachyderm, which may be designated by the name of Hadrohyus SUPREMUS.
Among the Oregon fossils there are a number of imperfect remains, of which it was formerly remarked, they indicated at least two species of rhinoceros.
One of these was thought to be the same as the R. occidenfalis ; the other was suspected to be the same as the Californian species, B. hesperius.
Some additional specimens indicate the second species to have been intermediate in size to that last named, and the R. crassus of the Niobrara River.
One of the specimens from Bridge Creek, consisting of a mutilated upper jaw fragment with portions of the fangs of the true molars, shows these to have occupied a space of about five inches.
An isolated tooth, from Alkali Flat, apparently a last upper premolar, probably belongs to the same animal.
From the outer part of its crown three folds project into the bottom of the median valley.
The tooth measures 1 inch and 10 lines wide.
The species may be named Rhinoceros pagificus.
Another fossil specimen, labelled " Crooked River," consists of an isolated vertebral plate of a large turtle, apparently the eighth bone of the series.
It has the same shape as in Sti/lemys niohrarensi's^ but is proportionately much shorter in relation with its breadth.
It measures 2 inches wide, 1 inch 1 lines long, and 7 lines thick.
The specimen probably indicates an undescribed species, which may be named Stylemys oregonensis.
Two additional fossils are brain casts, probably of Oreodon superbus.
The cerebral hemispheres are 10 inches 8 lines long, and together about 2^ inches broad.
[January 16, natural sciences of philadelphia.
249 October 24.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Eighteen members present.
October 31.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twelve members present.
On report of the committee, the followingpai)er was ordered to be printed : — 18t2.]
