REMARKS UPON THE ROUNDTAILED MUSKRAT NEOFIBER ALLENI TRUE.
BY FRANK C. BAKER.
The original description of this animal appeared in Science IV No.
75 1884 p. 34.
This was followed by one of a more detailed character in the Proceedings of the United States National Museum VII 1884 p. 170.
The habits and distribution of this mammal have been until recently matters of conjecture  but thanks to Mr. Frank M. Chapman we now have a number of interesting facts regarding both its habits and distribution.
The original place of capture by Dr. Whitttield was at Georgiana which is situated near the southern extremity of Merritts Island in Eastern Florida.
Its present known locality is thirty miles south on the peninsula opposite Micco at  Oak Lodge the residence of Mr. C. F. Latham.
At this point the peninsula is about threequarters of a mile wide with a fringe of mangrovebordered islands on the west shore.
Upon the river side there are large savannas caused by the water of the river making frequent inroads into the land and it is upon these savannas that Xeofiber alleni may be found in large numbers.
The vegetation of the savannas consists largelv of Rhlzophora mangle and Avicennla nitida red and black mangrove and  sedge Borrichia frutescenx with occasionally black or yellow mangroves scattered irregularly over the entire surface of the savanna.
The latter are also covered with grass to a height of two or three feet.
It is of this grass that Xeofiber constructs its nest placing it in hollow stumps around the trunks of the  yellow mangrove or in the open savannas.
The nests when placed in a hollow are of no particular shape seeming almost as if thrown together to fill up the depression but when placed in the open or about the foot of the yellow mangrove they are then elegant pieces of animal architecture being of a pyriform shape from ten to twenty inches in height and nearly as large in their greatest diameter.
It was not at all unusual to see from ten to fifteen nests from one point but it is not probable that all of these were inhabited.
The nests are provided with two openings situated invariably at opposite sides leading from the single chamber within and connecting with two underground passageways leading in opposite directions.
These runways are constructed just beneath the thick matted grass and they not infrequently extend for a considerable distance before emerging from the ground.
The runways as a rule have their exits upon the edge of some neighboring pond.
Here the animal finds the succulent grass upon which it feeds and which grows to a height of three or four feet in water half as deep.
To procure the best portions of the grass the Neofiber constructs a platform of large sticks upon which it sits and feeds at its leisure.
The largest platform observed measured ten by seven inches.
In all my many trips upon the water by night both with and without a light I never saw Neofiber swimming.
It is probably therefore not much given to nocturnal ramb lings.
Mr. Chapman says of the habits of this animal  It is probable that Neofiber is much less aquatic than the lastnamed species the common muskrat Fiber zebethicus a fact which would largely account for the differences observed in their habits.
That Neofiber is quite at home in the water however was clearly shown by the actions of a captured individual which placed in a tub of water swam and dived readily  in swimming using the tail in a peculiar gyratory manner the tip describing circles.
After the departure of Mr. Chapman from Oak Lodge I spent four weeks in trapping this animal and succeeded in catching two specimens one of which left me nothing but his foot as a remembrance of the occasion  but the other was obtained alive and is now in my private collection.
This animal when caught and placed in the bottom of my boat made frequent attempts to escape by crawling over the side.
That he is not cowardly when in captivity was shown by the ferocious manner in which he attacked my bare feet when I chanced to come in his way.
Mr. Chapman's statements regarding the action of the tail in swimming were corroborated.
I spent an entire morning in studying the nests and in following out numerous runways.
One of these I found to extend for a distance of fifty feet and to have its exit in a pond near by.
The course of this runway somewhat resembled the curves of a snake when in motion.
The description and measurements of the animal in my possession are as follows  Neofiber alleni True.
Above sealbrown  below silverywhite with a mixture of rufous  sides sealbrown shading to a rufescent tinge with here and there a few silvery hairs scattered about forehead and tip of nose black  tail of a rufescent tinge mixed with black.
Adult male.
1889.
Measurement of skin in millimeters.
Total length ...... Tail ........ Hind foot without claws .... Middle toe of fore foot without claw Middle toe of hind foot without claw.
Longest claw of fore foot ....
Longest claw of hind foot .... Measurements of skull in millimeters.
Total length ......  rreatest width .
.
.
.
Length of nasals Length of tooth row ....... Front edge of first molar to posterior margin of incisor Greatest width of muzzle ...... Width of interorbital bridge ..... Center of occipital crest to line of hinder margin of orbits 273 325 126 36 7 9 5 6 47 28 9 10 15 7 5 18 19
