NOTES ON THE ANATOMY OF PHOLAS BARNEA COSTATA LINNE AND ZIRPHiEA CRISPATA LINNE.
BY W. H. BALL.
In P. costata the mantle is entirely closed except for the passage of the foot.
The siphons of the specimen contracted in alcohol combined in a single envelope with distinct terminal orifices are little shorter than the whole of the rest of the body their surface is finely circularly wrinkled they have no epidermidal coat and no terminal coriaceous appendages.
The papilla 3 around the two orifices are small and inconspicuous.
The mantle margin is simple the median line of the connective tissue joining its edges is marked off by a pair of not very prominent raphes.
The aperture for the foot is oval about one quarter as long as the shell.
About it is a smooth thick membrane extending laterally to a raised papillose ridge the anterior prolongation of either raphe which separates it by a narrow space from the much thinner simple margin of the mantle which is continuous with the epidermis.
The tissue of which this encircling membrane is composed is thick  within the aperture extending a little behind it on each side is a sort of curtain whose office apparently might be to close around the foot and prevent the influx of sand or mud.
The anterior ends of these curtains do not reach as far forward by a distance about equal to a third of their whole length as the anterior commissure of the pedal opening.
On opening the mantlecavity we are first struck by the immense size of the labial palps the anterior or external palpus is adnate throughout the greater part of its extent upon the inner surface of the mantle only a small anterior border and its lateral tips being free.
It is radiately striate with transverse closeset lamellae on its free margin.
The lower or posterior palpus is very thick and cellular with a lamellar gilllike surface internally but smooth on its outer face.
It is produced laterally into long slender points which extend backward further than the pedal opening.
It is not muscular at least to any great extent and is supported by the apophyses proceeding from under the beaks of the shell  these processes are buried in its substance though their distal margins also penetrate the visceral mass internally for a short distance beyond the palpi.
The foot may be said to form the ventral face of the whole visceral mass  it is flattened laterally carinated and terminates behind in an acute free tip near the siphonal opening.
Its margins are smooth and .simple.
 Opposite the pedal opening a part of the foot is produced and thickened anteriorly sharp edged rounded behind and having a spongy sole with a small deep glandular
sinus near its anterior end  this portion some observers would probably regard as constituting the whole foot but to me the view that it represents something analogous to the pedal disk of Pecten seems more natural.
In the sinus above the posterior end of the foot as above defined and in the median line is a slender subcylindrical process about 50 mm.
long as contracted in spirits probably a sensory organ like that of Yoldia.
Directly behind this is the atrium of the incurrent siphon a small chamber hermetically roofed by the branchia which are united by a thin membrane so as to entirely cut off the branchial from the anal chamber.
This membrane is continuous with or firmly attached to the siphonal septum.
Directly behind the chamber the passageway or tube of the siphon contracts though there seemto be no curtain valve.
The branchia terminate at the anterior end of the siphonal septum.
The gills fall in two double lamellae on each side.
The inner gill is a simple elongated flattened sac the outer one has its inner wall dependent then at the distal edge folded back upon itself and continued upward dorsally beyond the point of starting so that the free edge forms a narrow appendix.
The viscera present no special points of interest.
There is a large  hyaline stylet  which is contained in a larger chamber extending nearly to the front end of the foot.
The other end of the stylet is attenuated sharply bent and projects into the cavity of the stomach.
The visceral mass is large the intestine much convoluted the anus projecting large involute and cupshaped constricted behind the  cup.
The anterior adductor is normal but feeble  the muscle passes from the reflected shell margin in one side straight across to the other.
The posterior adductor is oval in section and considerably stronger.
In the right valve is a slender prominent compressed fossette carrying a small thin internal cartilage which is attached to the opposite valve upon a small sharp notexcavated shelly process.
This remnant of the original cartilage may assist in keeping the valves attached to one another though it is very feeble but it has wholly lost its original function of an elastic cushion to prevent the too sudden or rude closing of the valves.
It is doubtful if the thin shred of horny epidermis behind the beaks in this species is a remnant of the original ligament or a mere epidermal extension.
The length of the contracted specimen examined was 2700 mm.
It was obtained on the Florida coast.
Very different in some particulars is the macroscopic anatomy of ZirpJuea crispata of which a specimen measuring in its contracted state 260.0 mm. is before me.
It was obtained by Dr. R. E. C. Stearns in Puget Sound Washington Territory.
In this species the si phonal tube is covered with a dehiscent thin papery epidermis as in Mya.
and is about three times as long as the rest of the animal proportionally thicker more cylindrical and consequently more bluntly pointed than in P. costata.
There are no important differences in the pedal opening where the curtain is close to if not coalescent with the margin of the mantle.
The ventral portion of the visceral mass is not flattened and marginated as in P. costatus but is produced into a point behind.
Above this point there is no sensory appendicle.
The palpi are much as in P. costatus and similarly supported by the umbonal apophysis on each side but the lower or inner palpus is much less fleshy.
The gills join behind the body but the junction is not floored across and hence there is noseparation of the anal and branchial chambers nor does the siphonal septum make its appearance where the siphon begins.
On the contrary the siphon incloses but a single tube and only at about the distal third of its length does any division or partition appear.
All this distance the somewhat attenuated gills extend nearly filling the tube and united at their bases.
The gills on each side consist of a Wshaped pair of sacs but the outer stem of the W is not produced into an appendicular lamella as in P. costatus.
The anus is thinedged with a valvular infolding of the edge but less cupshaped than in P. costatus.
Following the line which would have been taken by the siphonal septum had it existed are two doubleedged littleelevated ridges.
It is probable that the stem of the gills so expanded in life as to conduct the effete products of the intestine to the anal tube of the siphon without allowing them to come in contact with the respiratory face of the gills.
Taken as a whole Zirphaxi seems more modified than Pholas and shows fewer traces of the Myacean type from which both are probably descended.
I have not found a description of the soft parts of these two species after some search in the text books and so have thought it well to put them on record.
