BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES OF HARRISON ALLEN AND GEORGE HENRY HORN.
BY EDWARD J. NOLAN M. D. The period of the Academy's history with which Doctors Allen and Horn are first identified the years of the early '60's was bright with both accomplishment and promise.
Made notable by the work of the illustrious veterans who were still active and by that which might be hoped for from those who were just beginning their careers it was probably the most brilliant epoch in the history of the society.
But few of the great collections which have since come into prominence were in existence.
The Smithsonian Institution was then rather a distributing agency than a storehouse of scientific material and museums everywhere were benefited by its activity.
The United States Government had not become through the Agricultural Department the National Museum and the Geological Surveys a formidable rival in the publication of scientific papers and the work of Gill Meek Hayden Cones Stimpson Kennicott Yarrow and others was made known to the scientific world most promptly and accurately through the Proceedings of this Academy.
In the old building at the corner of Broad and Sansom Streets Leidy easily first amoug equals pursued his paleontological studies in a little dark and dusty room on the first floor of the museum his brilliant microscopical investigations being carried on more comfortably at home.
The results were reported in either case to the meetings of the Academy and could generally be depended on to render them interestiug even though nothing else were forthcoming.
Cassin had the western room of the library filled with trays of mounted birds and scores of ornithological volumes which no one about the place dared to touch for Cassin was very much of an autocrat and was impatient of rules.
Books and specimens however were made good use of especially on Sundays for the exigencies of breadwinning left him but little time during the week for his favorite study.
S. B. Buckley occupied the herbarium a long narrow dark room in the southeast corner of the second museum floor.
He had presented and published some interesting observations on antlife and w 7 as then working up his collection of Texan plants the publication of his results calling forth savage criticism from Asa Gray which created quite a stir at the time and gave poor Elias Durand the Director of the Herbarium more than one bad quarter of an hour.
The President Isaac Lea was reading by title his contributions to the genus Unio and other conchological papers synopses of which were published in the Proceedings to be afterward expanded into parts of the Journal sumptuously illustrated at the expense of the author by some of the finest lithographs ever made in America.
The place left vacant in 1850 by Samuel George Morton had been filled by James Aitken Meigs who after serving a brief term as Librarian was devoting all the time he could spare from a rapidly growing practice to the study of anthropology.
Thirty years later the Academy came into possession of the library he was then collecting and a portion of the fortune resulting from his successful professional work.
The sound of the fierce battle between Lea and Conrad had died away to a distant reverberation and the latter as efficiently as his dyspepsia would allow was describing fossil mollusca and making autograph drawings on stone of his new species.
His activity was greatly stimulated by the facilities for publication supplied by the newly started American Journal of Conchology and by the interest in his work displayed by the editor George W. Tryon Jr. Thomas B. Wilson had just presented the superb collections of birds which for many years were and perhaps still are the crowning glory of the Academy.
They had been deposited from time to time since 1845 and Wilson had even made an addition to the Academy's building for their arrangement but they only became the absolute property of the society in March 1860.
We find the Curators at this time complaining that in spite of Wilson's addition the building was rapidly becoming too small for the collections a disadvantage which in November 1865 resulted in the appointment of a committee  to devise in the language of the resolution  methods for advancing the prosperity and efficiency of the Academy by the erection of a building of a size suitable to contain the collections.
In the intervals of cruises Dr. Ruschenberger was introducing improvements in the administration of affairs and to his energy and devotion is due the ultimate success of the Committee on Building then appointed.
Some administrative reforms were indeed required for although the Academy had been brought to the distinguished position it then held by the voluntary labors of those interested in the advancement of knowledge the absence of responsibility was productive of serious disadvantages.
Up to this time no one connected with the institution except the janitor had received continuous compensation for service rendered although appropriations were made from time to time for special work as occasion required.
The services of an Assistant Librarian were secured in January 1862 at the munificent compensation of two dollars a week and an assistant to the Curators was appointed some time after.
Dr. Leidy then as during the rest of his life Chairman of the Curators had been heard to declare that if the Academy were in possession of everything it had ever owned a building twice the size of the one then occupied would be required to house the collections.
The losses were due partly to the destructive action of time partly to bad museum methods and partly it is to be feared to a liberal interpretation of the law of meum and tuum.
The enthusiastic young naturalists of the period were allowed to rearrange and disarrange the collections as they pleased each according to his own ideas of classification.
Infested birds were carried to the cellar by the hundred and baked in a hot oven until they became as brittle as punk.
The insects especially were entirely neglected because of the activity of the recently founded American Entomological Society and the serious disagreement then existing between Thomas B. Wilson and John L. LeConte.
A valuable collection of insects was being rapidly reduced to dust and an enthusiastic young entomologist of the time proposed transferring the few remaining good butterflies bodily to his own collection so that they might be preserved from destruction.
It was not the Curators or the members of the Entomological Committee but the Assistant Librarian who prevented the carrying out of his virtuous intention.
As for the Cassin had the western room of the library filled with trays of mounted birds and scores of ornithological volumes which no one about the place dared to touch for Cassin was very much of an autocrat and was impatient of rules.
Books and specimens however were made good use of especially on Sundays for the exigencies of breadwinning left him but little time during the week for his favorite study.
S. B. Buckley occupied the herbarium a long narrow dark room in the southeast corner of the second museum floor.
He had presented and published some interesting observations on antlife and was then working up his collection of Texan plants the publication of his results calling forth savage criticism from Asa Gray which created quite a stir at the time and gave poor Elias Durand the Director of the Herbarium more than one bad quarter of an hour.
The President Isaac Lea was reading by title his contributions to the genus Unio and other conchological papers synopses of which were published in the Proceedings to be afterward expanded into parts of the Journal sumptuously illustrated at the expense of the author by some of the finest lithographs ever made in America.
The place left vacant in 1850 by Samuel George Morton had been filled by James Aitken Meigs who after serving a brief term as Librarian was devoting all the time he could sjiare from a rapidly growing practice to the study of anthropology.
Thirty years later the Academy came into possession of the library he was then collecting and a portion of the fortune resulting from his successful professional work.
The sound of the fierce battle between Lea and Conrad had died away to a distant reverberation and the latter as efficiently as his dyspepsia would allow was describing fossil mollusca and making autograph drawings on stone of his new species.
His activity was greatly stimulated by the facilities for publication supplied by the newly started American Journal of Conchology and by the interest in his work displayed by the editor George W. Tryon Jr. Thomas B. Wilson had just presented the superb collections of birds which for many years were and perhaps still are the crowning glory of the Academy.
They had been deposited from time to time since 1845 and Wilson had even made an addition to the Academy's building for their arrangement but they only became the absolute property of the society in March 1860.
We find the Curators at this time complaining that in spite of Wilson's addition the building was rapidly becoming too small for the collections a disadvantage which in November 1865 resulted in the appointment of a committee  to devise in the language of the resolution  methods for advancing the prosperity and efficiency of the Academy by the erection of a building of a size suitable to contain the collections.
In the intervals of cruises Dr. Ruschenberger was introducing improvements in the administration of affairs and to his energy and devotion is due the ultimate success of the Committee on Building then appointed.
Some administrative reforms were indeed required for although the Academy had been brought to the distinguished position it then held by the voluntary labors of those interested in the advancement of knowledge the absence of responsibility was productive of serious disadvantages.
Up to this time no one connected with the institution except the janitor had received continuous compensation for service rendered although appropriations were made from time to time for special work as occasion required.
The services of an Assistant Librarian were secured in January 1862 at the munificent compensation of two dollars a week and an assistant to the Curators was appointed some time after.
Dr. Leidy then as during the rest of his life Chairman of the Curators had been heard to declare that if the Academy were in possession of everything it had ever owned a building twice the size of the one then occupied would be required to house the collections.
The losses were due partly to the destructive action of time partly to bad museum methods and partly it is to be feared to a liberal interpretation of the law of meum and tuum.
The enthusiastic young naturalists of the period were allowed to rearrange and disarrange the collections as they pleased each according to his own ideas of classification.
Infested birds were carried to the cellar by the hundred and baked in a hot oven until they became as brittle as punk.
The insects especially were entirely neglected because of the activity of the recently founded American Entomological Society and the serious disagreement then existing between Thomas B. Wilson and John L. LeConte.
A valuable collection of insects was being rapidly reduced to dust and an enthusiastic young entomologist of the time proposed transferring the few remaining good butterflies bodily to his own collection so that they might be preserved from destruction.
It was not the Curators or the members of the Entomological Committee but the Assistant Librarian who prevented the carrying out of his virtuous intention.
As for the library  a distinguished ornithologist has recently been heard to lament that in Cassin's time he could take away any book he wanted.
The bylaw governing the case then as now forbade the removal of books from the building and although this gentleman doubtless returned all he borrowed the same it is to be feared could not be said of others who violated the law.
Although then without a cent of endowment this department of the Academy was kept well up with the times by exchange of publications and the munificence of Dr. Thomas B. Wilson.
The meetings were interesting and well attended and the annual volume of the Proceeding thanks to the absence of competition had attained dimensions not since reached.
The most hopeful feature however of that epoch was the galaxy of young men who were then appearing on the scene some of whom turned out to be brilliantly successful while others were far from reaching the goal of their ambition.
Cope had been elected a member in July 1861 although prior to that he had been an active worker in the Academy.
The Curators had reported in 1859   The care of the herpetological cabinet which for some time had lost the valuable services of Dr. Hallowell in consequence of illness has now been undertaken by E. D. Cope a young man who gives promise of much future usefulness both to the Academy and to Natural History.
He contributed three papers to the Proceedings that year and seven in 1860.
All his time was at this period devoted to herpetology his work being done in a small room on the first gallery floor.
It was filled to overflowing with books bottles the remains of luncheons old clothes and other impedimenta.
His personal peculiarities were quite as pronounced then as a later period of his career and he already gave promise of becoming what he was afterward justly said to be  the greatest naturalist born on American soil.
Directly beneath Cope's quarters in the northeast corner of the museum floor was the mammalogical room where John Hamilton Slack a man of great versatility laid ambitious plans for a monograph of the quadrumana.
As first proposed it was to take the form of a dignified quarto or even folio to be richly illustrated at the expense of the author but it eventually appeared as a modest paper of sixteen pages in the Proceedings for 1862.
His ability as a musician and amateur conjuror interfered with his scientific work.
Versatility has its disadvantages.
Tryon's first paper had been contributed in 1861.
He was an indefatigable worker and gave up his interest in a lucrative business to devote himself to science.
He was most generous in his appreciation and encouragement of others.
He started the American Journal of Conchology in 1865 and in 1879 the Manual of Conehology which is still issued by the Section founded by him.
His business training and strict attention to details of management enabled him strange to say to make both of these unpromising enterprises yield him a revenue all of which with much more was on his death left to his favorite department of the Academy n quite a special sense therefore his work continues.
Gabb had been appointed a Jessup Fund student and was engaged in those studies which enabled him to render good service on the Geological Survey of California and to act as Director of the Survey of San Domingo.
The income of the Jessup Fund had become available for the assistance of young naturalists in 1860 the first recipient of benefits being Charles Conrad Abbott then engaged in the study of ichthyology but since celebrated for his graceful contributions to the literature of popular natural history.
During the first years of the existence of the Fund nearly all the young workers in the Academy including the subjects of this notice and several of more mature years were assisted from the income thereof.
The Jessup Fund was then and continues to be productive of most desirable results.
Prominent in this group of aspiring young naturalists were Harrison Allen and George Henry Horn.
It is especially fitting and indeed almost unavoidable that the services rendered by them to science should be commemorated jointly as their lives were laid in parallel lines to a singular degree.
Horn was born in 1840 Allen one year later  they were pupils of the Central High School at the same time classmates and members of the same graduating class in the Medical Department of the University of Pennsylvania their work in the Academy began about the same time they were both Jessup Fund students they served contemporaneously in the medical corps of the army during the closing years of the war  they were to a limited degree collaborators in their scientific work  they each held the office of Corresponding Secretary in the Academy they were members of the Academy's Standing Committees at the same time they sat together at the Council Board until their work was done and they died within ten days of each other  the elder after a him several times and stayed some days each visit.
He used to bring or send an ambulance for me and I remember the pleasure I had in the country going there.
I was much struck with the administrative ability he displayed.
Remember that he was a very young man for such a place as he held having a considerable staff of assistants all of whom I think were older than himself.
He was a rigid disciplinarian and I heard he was complained of for keeping aloof from his staff but I am inclined to think he was wise in doing so.
He did not join with the hospital surgeons' mess but had his meals served in a pleasant room taking them alone or with members of his staff or others whom he specially invited for each occasion.
His companionship was certainly very congenial to me and I presume from the frequency and urgency of his invitations mine was to him.
Our discussions were by no means confined to medicine or even zoology.
They embraced a wide range of subjects and I was often surprised to learn how multifarious were his sympathies and how wide his range of reading.
On his return to Philadelphia he made an earnest but dignified canvass for the Professorship of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in the Auxiliary Faculty of Medicine of the University just then endowed by Dr. George B.
Wood.
He was endorsed by strong letters from American and foreign naturalists who recognized the merit of his published works.
He had no social backing  the influence he brought to bear on the Trustees of the University was legitimately based on his standing as a zoologist and was in marked contrast to the campaign of at least one of his competitors.
Dr. Allen was the successful candidate.
He held the position to which he was then elected until 1879.
His lectures on medical zoology were so well received that at the request of the class he prepared his Outlines of Comparative Anatomy and Medical Zoology the publication of which was however owing to professional engagements delayed until 1869.
The volume is by no means the least important of the author's works and it is of special interest in the present connection inasmuch as the chapters on Hemiptera and and Cantharis were contributed by Dr. Horn.
In the latter part of 1876 Dr. Francis Gurney Smith the Professor of the Institutes of Medicine in the University was unable to continue his course of lectures which was completed by Dr. Henry C. Chapman.
The course of 187778 was delivered by Dr. James Tyson.
On his resignation at the end of that term Dr. Allen was appointed to fill the vacancy.
He held the professorship until 1885 when he resigned because of increased professional work.
He was emeritus professor of the Institutes until 1891 when on the death of Dr. Leidy he resumed his old position in the Auxiliary Faculty which he held until last year.
He also served for one year as Director of the Wistar Museum.
On establishing himself in Philadelphia at the close of the war he at first engaged in the practice of general surgery.
His love of minute detail caused him to concentrate his attention on the affections of the upper air passages his inclination to do so being perhaps obscurely the result of his early dental studies.
So successful was he in his specialty that he soon became a recognized authority in laryngology and rhyuology the latter science having it may almost be said originated in his diagnosis of disturbances of the nasal mucous membranes and his careful descriptions of departures from the normal anatomy of the facial region.
His professional and zoological work were equally distinguished by untiring care in the elaboration of minute details a characteristic as evident in his first descriptions of bats as in his most recent craniological studies.
Had Dr. Allen been an artist instead of a physician he would have been a Meissonier rather than a Makart.
The scope of Dr. Allen's interest in professional and scientific work is clearly indicated by the positions he held in the Academy and elsewhere a brief statement of which is all that can be here given   He was assistant to Wills' Eye Hospital from 1868 to 1870  Surgeon to St. Joseph's Hospital from 1870 to 1878 and visiting surgeon to the Philadelphia Hospital from 1874 to 1878.
He held the position of Professor of Anatomy in the Philadelphia Dental College from 1866 to 1878.
He was VicePresident of the Pathological Society of Philadelphia in 1877  President of the American Laryngological Association in 1886 of the American Association of Anatomists from 1891 to 1893 and of the Anthropometric Society at the time of his death.
He served as judge in the Section of Anthropology at the Columbian Exposition in 1893 and was a member of the American Philosophical Society the Boston Society of Natural History the Biological Society of Washington the Philadelphia County Medical Society the Neurological Society of Philadelphia the Historical Society of Texas and Corresponding Member of the Society of Natural Sciences of Chili.
He served as President of the Contemporary Club in 18941895.
It was in connection with the Academy however that nearly all of his extra professional work was accomplished.
He was but little interested in administrative affairs and was reluctant to accept official positions the duties of which might interfere with his favorite studies.
He served as Corresponding Secretary in 1867 and was a member of the Council at intervals from 1876 until his death.
He also served on the Library Committee.
He was instrumental in founding the Anthropological Section and was its Director until his death.
He contributed his last scientific communication to one of its meetings.
The character and extent of the work accomplished in the Academy and elsewhere will be considered by competent judges of its value.
Dr. Allen was married to Miss Julia Colton Dec. 29 1869.
His widow a son and a daughter survive him.
He found rest and relaxation from his professional and scientific work in literature music and the sympathy and affection of a devoted domestic circle.
His summers were spent at his home in Sciasconset on Nantucket Island whence he would return in the fall invigorated by the outdoor life of a lover of nature.
In his intercourse with his professional b re them and his scientific associates Dr. Allen was always helpful and appreciative.
A certain reserve and dignity of bearing gave assurance of intellectual force which was fully realized on a close acquaintance with the man and his work.
He was precise and careful in his statements charitable in his judgment and generous in his dealings with the poor the weak and the sick.
His religious convictions were earnest and definite.
He was brought up as a Hicksite Friend but later in life he accepted the doctrines of Trinitarian Christianity and in the spring of the present year he was baptized according to the rites of the Protestant Episcopal Church.
In the summer of 1895 he had an attack of indisposition which he seems to have regarded as a premonition of the affection which two years later proved fatal.
Last April he underwent an operation for appendicitis from which he survived only through the prompt action of his physicians in the administration of stimulants and the employment of artificial respiration.
His summer at Sciasconset seemed as usual to have strengthened his vitality.
He resumed his professional work on his return to Philadelphia and made frequent and sometimes prolonged visits to the Academy where he completed some anthropological investigations the results of which will be published by the Wagner Free Institute of Science and the United States Government.
He presided at the meeting held November 12th in commemoration of his lifelong friend the late Edward D. Cope in the rooms of the American Philosophical Society.
Some of those who Avere present on that occasion were painfully aware that Dr. Allen was far from well.
Two days later on the afternoon of Sunday November 14th he was seized with an attack of angina pectoris which resulted in death.
In 1860 he had written to his mother  it is my ambition to be known as a good physician and a good man.
Those who knew Dr. Allen best as a physician and a man know with what completeness of fulfilment he had lived his life.
George Henry Horn was born in Philadelphia April 8 1840.
His preliminary education was received in the Jefferson Boys' Grammar School from which he entered the Central High School July 1853.
He took the full course and graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Arts February 11 1858.
The degree of Master of Arts was conferred on him by his Alma Mater July 1863.
At the time of his graduation he lived at the southwest corner of 4th and Poplar Streets where his father was the proprietor of a drug store.
Almost immediately after leaving the High School he matriculated in the Medical Department of the University of Pennsylvania.
He took his degree in medicine in 1861 his thesis being entitled  Sprains.
While yet a student of medicine he contributed his first papers to the Proceedings of the Academy.
He did not immediately devote himself to the specialty in which he later became so distinguished his first three contributions to science being descriptions of new species of recent and fossil corals and comments on MilneEdwards' classification of those organisms.
There is every reason to believe that his incentive to the study of natural history was received as in Dr. Allen's case from the professors of the High School.
In addition to McMurtie's lectures Dr. B. Howard Rand at that time Recording Secretary of the Academy was liberal in the distribution of tickets of admission to the Museum and many of his pupils found profitable occupation for their Friday afternoons in visiting the collections.
Horn was early thrown into association with Dr. John L. LeCoute whose prominence as a coleopterologist was undisputed.
The mutual regard then established led to community of study and was only interrupted by death.
Dr. Horn's fourth paper also published in 1860 was on new species of North American coleoptera in the cabinet of the American Entomological Society.
His later contributions to science the extent and value of which will be treated of by one eminently qualified to do so were with one or two exceptions devoted to this specialty as an authority on which Dr. Horn certainly had on rival in America at the time of his death.
Having passed the required examination Dr. Horn received a commission as Assistant Surgeon in the United States Army March 1 1863.
He was attached to the 2d California Cavalry Department of the Pacific until July 14th of the following year when he was commissioned as surgeon of the 1st California Infantry Volunteers remaining in that position until the term of service of the regiment expired Dec. 3 1864.
He was again mustered into service May 22 1865 as assistant surgeon of his old regiment the 2d California Cavalry and commissioned as surgeon of the 2d California Infantry September 23 1865.
His service terminated with that of the staff of his regiment April 16 1866.
During his military service in the west he improved the opportunity to make extensive additions to his collection of coleoptera and was intimately associated with the California Academy of Sciences.
On his return to Philadelphia he devoted himself to the geueral practice of medicine his field being in the northwestern section of the city with which he had been identified nearly all his life and wdiere he was held in the highest esteem by those to whom he ministered as a physician.
lie was especially skilful as an obstetrician and hundreds of families felt that they had suffered irreparable loss when he retired from the duties of active practice a few years before his death.
Dr. Horn's devotion to science was singularly undivided.
Although every obligation of his profession was regarded by him as binding he practised medicine merely as a means to an end.
He found at once his relaxation and intellectual profit when after an exhausting day of attendance on the sick he was at leisure to pore over his cherished insectcases until far into the night.
Not having married he was not distracted by domestic ties from his favorite occupation and for social engagements he cared but little.
Art and literature were to him outside issues very well in their way but to be left to the cultivation of others.
As a contributor to knowledge his function was welldefined and recognition of his success as an entomologist was valued by him the more because of the singleness of his interest.
It is gratifying to know that such recognition was conveyed to him in abundant measure by those who knew of the enduriugly accurate character of his work.
He was one of the twelve honorary members of the Entomological Society of Belgium one of the sixteen honorary members of the Entomological Union of Stettin and one of the eleven honorary members of the Entomological Society of Fiance.
He was an active member of the Russian Entomological Society Correspondent of the Boston Society of Natural History the Biological Society of Washington the Kansas Academy of Sciences and the ZoologicoBotanical Society of Vienna.
He was also a member of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia the Entomological Societies of New York Washington and Newark and honorary member of the Feldman Collecting Social.
He was Librarian and one of the Secretaries of the American Philosophical Society at the time of his death.
On the death of his valued friend Dr. John L. LeConte he was elected President of the American Entomological Society a position which he held continuously until his death combining with it the Directorship of the Entomological Section of the Academy.
He received the title of Professor of Entomology from the University of Pennsylvania.
The position it is believed was entirely honorary no active duties being attached to it.
As might be supposed from the strictly defined limits of his field of scientific investigation his work was more in connection with the American Entomological Society than with the Academy although his interest in the latter was unflagging.
He was elected a member July 31 1866 on his return from the west.
He served as Corresponding Secretary from 1876 to 1890.
He was a member of the Council from February 23 1875 to December 26 1876.
He was again elected in December 1891 and held the position at the time of his death.
He also served on the Finance Committee for 1893 and on the Publication Committee from 1875 to 1890 and from 1893 to the end.
The duties of these several positions were performed by him with fidelity and discretion.
34 His relinquishment of active professional work was probably due to a consciousness of failing vigor but the gravity of his condition was not manifest until December 26 1896 when he was stricken with unconsciousness while engaged in playing a game of cards with some friends at the Columbia Club.
Although he partially rallied from the attack and was able to attend the Nansen meeting in the rooms of the American Philosophical Society his work was done and the interval was one of patient waiting for the end.
Among his few relaxations during his later years had been those enjoyed as a member of a fishing club which occupied a comfortable house at Beesley's Point N. J.
He took an active part in the management of the establishment and the last months of his life were spent there until a renewed attack of cerebral hemorrhage terminated in death November 24th of the present year.
The loss sustained by the Academy in the death of Drs.
Horn and Allen is the most recent of a disastrous series beginning in 1891 with that of Dr. Joseph Leidy and immediately preceded early in the present year by that of the brilliant naturalist Edward D. Cope.
The effect of such subtraction from the membership of the society must be acutely felt but the work of these distinguished men lives after them and we may be consoled by the hope that the influences which formed them and which in no small measure emanated from this Academy may continue to produce worthy successors who will be sustained and encouraged by the unselfish devotion to the cause of intellectual advancement of those who have gone before.
DR. ALLEN'S ZOOLOGICAL WORK.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
So far as we have any record Dr. Harrison Allen's first and last papers on zoological subjects as well as his last verbal communication before a scientific body were originally presented in this Academy.
Of seventy contributions to science accessible to the author fully onehalf were first issued in the publications of this society.
In systematic zoological work Dr. Allen's publications number about thirty in comparative anatomy forty those exclusively relating to Man number seven while eight relate largely to the special subject of animal locomotion.
With the exception of about ten of the seventy titles attributed to him his papers are in the nature of brief contributions to four of the more important American scientific journals and cover from one to four pages each.
In many cases they were simply elaborations of verbal announcements first made at the meetings of this Academy.
His monographic work comes under four titles and it is worthy of special note that of the seventy titles appearing under his name thirtyfive relate almost exclusively to the Chiroptera or bats.
Dr. Allen's systematic work was confined wholly to the bats a fact the more remarkable in view of his wide knowledge of and interest in many other families of the Mammalia.
It is significant of his very early interest in this difficult and neglected group of animals that his first published paper was printed in the Proceedings of the Academy in 1861 under the title Descriptions of New Pteropine Bats from Africa.
He here describes a new genus and three new species of African bats in the collections made by Du Chaillu and presented by subscription to the Academy.
As a fir.t effort this paper is surprisingly well prepared both from the systematic and the anatomical points of view.
Even granting his anatomical knowledge as a graduate of medicine it is difficult to believe that the author had not made  close study of the bats previous to inspecting the Du Chaillu novelties.
The theory that his interest in the Du Chaillu collections coupled with the opportunity of entering upon a comparatively unworked field of original research was the incentive of his lifelong devotion to study of the Chiroptera is probably correct.
Only three short papers by him all on the Chiroptera appeared between 1861 and 1864 during his service in the United States Army.
It was in Washington while thus engaged that he came under the inspiring influence of Prof. S. F. Baird to which was probably due the issue in 1864 of his first Mo7iograph of the Bats of North America.
Professor Baird having wholly omitted the Chiroptera from his great work on North American mammals published by the Government in 1857 Dr. Allen was now able to supply a long felt need in the zoological literature of America.
Confined as it was to a technical treatment of the species found north of Mexico the monograph was limited to eightyfive pages of a volume of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.
Of the twenty species and eight genera recognized one genus and six species were first described by the author.
In forming an estimate of this work it would be unfair to test it by later standards.
We must allow much for the crude conceptions and scant knowledge of American bats then existing among the most distinguished naturalists.
The number of specimens then available for study in our museums was but a tithe of those now existing and in the light of such facts Dr. Allen's initial work performed during his leisure hours does him credit as the pioneer in this branch of mammalogy.
In 1893 his second Monograph of the North American Bats appeared as Bulletin No.
JfS of the National Museum.
This issue more than twice the size of its predecessor is based on more extensive suites of specimens than the first and summarizes the investigations of himself and others including Dobson during the intervening thirty years.
The book is well illustrated new methods of anatomical comparison are introduced and the morphology in many cases is greatly elaborated.
The results from the standpoint of the systematist are somewhat confusing and it is evident that the author was at times led astray by a wrong conception of the laws of geographic variation and unduly biased by his theory of pedomorphism.
His effort to set his nomenclature on an enduring basis is only partially successful handicapped as he was by his association with oldschool systematists and the small amount of leisure which active office practice allowed him for an exhaustive examination of the literature.
As a compendium of our knowledge of North American bats up to that period in some cases halfconcealing yet halfrevealing the truths which have recently been elaborated by Mr. G. Miller Jr. in his Revision of the North American Vespertilionidce 1 Dr. Allen's last edition is a valuable and enduring work full of original suggestion.
It is the standard by which we must judge all future systematic work on the American Chiroptera.
It is to be regretted that Mr. Miller should have neglected to do honor in his Revision to Dr. Allen's long and faithful service in this special department of zoology.
The success of the later naturalist in his monographic work has only been made possible by the years of patient research the mistakes the suggestions and withal the earnest truthseeking of Dr. Harrison Allen.
In comparative anatomy Dr. Allen published about forty papers most of which are in the form of communications to learned societies on the anatomy of Man and the bats and among these may be 1 North Amer.
Fauna No.
13 1897. classed those relating to animal locomotion.
In 1869 appeared his Outlines of Comparative Anatomy and Medical Zoology a compend of his lectures delivered in the University of Pennsylvania as Professor of the branches treated of.
The concise character of this little book its simplicity of classification and treatment and its suggestiveness to the student in original research distinguish it from ordinary text books and it may still serve as a valuable guide to instructors in anatomy.
Notes on the Conformation of the Mammalian Skull and Studies in the Facial Region also record observations indicating the special studies which Dr. Allen had been conducting previous to the year 1875 and which were bringing him into prominence as an anatomist.
In his studies of animal locomotion Dr. Allen deserves special notice standing as he does quite alone in his discussion of Prof. Muybridge's instantaneous photography of animals in motion.
This work was performed at the request of the University of Pennsylvania.
He had previously studied anatomically the limbs of the mammalia notably the wings of bats with a similiar purpose in view.
His paper was modestly entitled Materials for a Memoir on Animal Locomotion.
On this unpretentious basis the whole essay is largely conducted no theories or generalizations being indulged in where a more imaginative writer would have felt at liberty to roam at will.
He confined his speculations on animal locomotion as in his previous work chiefly to practical suggestions for future investigation.
In connection with this work we find several examples of newlycoined words and technical terms called for by Dr. Allen's studies in minute anatomy.
Without such additions to nomenclature a new branch of technical study such as the one undertaken by Muybridge and Allen could not be intelligently and at the same time concisely presented.
In 1884 Dr. Allen published his System of Human Anatomy a quarto volume of eight hundred pages profusely illustrated and representing an amount of learning and labor far out of proportion to its popularity and financial success.
His Distribution of Color Marks in the Mammalia which appeared in the Proceedings of the Academy in 1888 is the most important contribution to the literature of the subject yet published by an American author.
He states his  main object has been to contemplate color marks as the result of nutritive processes controlled by recognized biological forces both in health and disease.
The paper is a valuable record of observations made on the lines defined by previous writers especially by Eschricht and Voigt on the human subject.
It forms a valuable summary of previous work adding much material for future research but advancing no hypotheses.
In this the author was consistent with the cautious conservatism which characterized his life.
Taking a comprehensive view of the zoological work of Dr. Allen in connection with our knowledge of his personality we are most impressed with its conscientiousness united to an unselfishness only too rare among men of Science.
In a personal acquaintance with Dr. Allen as a student of zoology the author was early impressed with his serious and deliberate almost solemn consideration of the subject in hand.
A more intimate acquaintance revealed his geniality and humor and his philosophic interest in created things.
He never reached conclusions hastily even on subjects of minor import.
His faculty may it not be said his genius for tentative suggestion as to the significance of phenomena was exercised in such a conservative way that it could neither mislead nor be misconstrued as a declaration of belief.
His sincerity of purpose his humility and his love of nature endeared him to his associates and emphasize their regret for his loss.
