



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA 



1889. 



COMMITTEE OF PUBLICATION: 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



John H. Redfield. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1890. 






Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



February 26, 1890. 



I hereby certify that copies of the Proceedings for 1889 have 

 at the meetings of the Academy as follows 



Pages 9 to 24 



25 to 40 



41 to 88 



89 to 128 



129 to 144 



" 145 to 176 



" 177 to 192 



193 to 240 



241 to 272 



" 273 to 304 



" 305 to 320 



" 321 to 336 



337 to 368 



" 369 to 384 



385 to 400 



" 401 to 432 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary, 



PHILADELPHIA : 

 HINDER A KELLY, PRINTERS. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. On the Taxonomic Values of the Wing Membranes 

 and of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits in the Cheiroptera (Plate 

 X) 313 



Baker, F. C. Notes on the Food of Birds 266 



Remarks upon the Round-Tailed Muskrat, Neofiber Alleni, True 271 



Bollman, Charles H. Notes on a small Collection of Myriapods from the 



Bermuda Islands 127 



Brinton, Daniel G., M. D. On a Petroglyph from the Island of St. Vincent, 



W. 1 417 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. Description of a new Species of Eutasnia 421 



Dall, W. H. Notes on the Anatomy of Pholas (Barnea) costata and Zirphrea 



crispala, Lin 274 



Eyerman, John. Notes on Geology and Mineralogy 32 



Gardiner, John and L. J. K. Brace. Provisional List of the Plants of the 



Bahama Islands 349 



Genth, F. A. On two Minerals from Delaware County, Pa 50 



Goldsmith, E. Gadolinite from Llano Co., Texas 164 



Hartman, W. D., M. D. New Species of Shells from New Hebrides (Plate 



V) 91 



Pleilprin, Angelo. On some new Species of Mollusca from the Bermuda Is- 

 lands (Plate VIII) 141 



Ives, J. E. Variations in Ophiura Panamensis and Ophiura teres 76 



On a new Genus and two new Species of Ophiurans 143 



Catalogue of the Asteroidea and Ophiuroidea in the Collection of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 169 



Jordan, David S. and Bert Fesler. Description of a new species of Ortho- 



pristis from the Galapagos Islands 36 



Keyes, Charles R. Lower Carbonic Gasteropoda from Burlington, Iowa 284 



The American Species of Polyphemopsis 299 



Sphrerodoma : a Genus of Fossil Gasteropods 303 



Kirsch, Philip H. A Review of the European and American Uranoscopidse 



or Star-Gazers 258 



Kirsch, Philip H. and Morton W. Fordice. A Review of the American Spe- 

 cies of Sturgeons (Acipenseridas) -. 245 



\ £ 3 




Leidy, Joseph, M. D. The Boring-Sponge, Cliona 70 



McMurrich, J. Playfair, Ph. D. A Contribution to the Actinology of the Ber- 

 mudas (Plates VI and VII) 102 



Marx, George, M. D. A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Spider 



Fauna of the Bermuda Islands (Plate IV) 98 



On a new Species of Spider of the Genus Dinopis from the Southern 



United States (Plate XI) 341 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the Life-histories of Plants, No. IV 53 



Meek, Seth E. and Charles H. Bollman. Notes on Elagatis bipinnulatus.... 42 

 Morrison, Willard L. A review of the American Species of Priacanthida?.... 159 

 Pilsbry, Henry A. New and Little-known Species of American Mollusks, 



No. I (Plate III) 81 



Nomenclature and Check-List of North American Land Shells 191 



On the Anatomy of Aerope and Zingis (Plate IX) 277 



New and Little-known American Mollusks, No. II (Plate XII) 411 



Safford, J. M. and A. W. Vodges. Description of new Species of fossil Crus- 

 tacea from the Lower Silurian of Tennessee with remarks on others 



not well known 16j 



Scott, Wm. B. Notes on the Osteology and Systematic Position of Dinktis 



felina, Leidy 211 



Shufeldt, R. W. Observations upon the Development of the Skull in Neo- 

 toma fuscipes ; a contribution to the Morphology of the Rodentia 



(Plates I, II) 14 



Stone, Witmer. On Pratincola Salax, Verr. and Allied Species 78 



Catalogue of the Muscicapidse in the Collection of the Academy of Nat- 



tural Sciences of Philadelphia 146 



Williston, S. W., M. D. The Sternalis Muscle 38 



Wingate, Harold. Orcadella operculata Wing., a new Myxomycete 280 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1889. 



January 1, 1889. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



On several Gregarines, and a singular mode of conjugation of one 

 of them. — Prof. Leidy communicated the following on some species 

 of Gregarina. : Among coleopterous insects the family of Tenebrion- 

 idae appears to be constantly infested with gregarine parasites. A 

 remarkable species observed in one of our common beetles, Nye- 

 tobates pennsylvanicus, I propose to distinguish by the name of 

 Gregarina philica. The body is elongated clavate, variably 

 thickened and rounded in front, somewhat tapering behind, and with 

 the posterior end conical. Cephalic division campanulate, with the 

 summit somewhat prolonged and surmounted by a horizontal circular 

 disk with a rounded, milled border. Conjugating individuals with 

 the cephalic extremity conical and simple, or without the terminal 

 disk. Length from 0*3 to 2 mm. ; breadth - 6 to 015 mm. 



In conjugation the species is remarkable and so far as I know 



peculiar. In the pairing of most described species of Gregarina, two 



individuals, commonly of the same size, conjoin in the same line, the 



cephalic extremity of one attached to the caudal end of the other, 



2 




10 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



Fig. i. 



Gregarina philica. 



40 diam. 





Fig. 2. Fi<;. 3 



Gregarina actinotus. Gregarina mega 

 175 diam. cephala 



Iii the species under consideration I have observed 

 that the pairs conjoin, as represented in the accom- 

 panying figure, with the heads together and the bodies 

 side by side. In numerous instances the position was 

 invariable, and in all, the couples variably differed in 

 size. Thus in one pair the longer individual was L75 

 mm. long; and the smaller one 075 mm. loner, and in 

 another pair the larger individual was 2 mm. long 

 and the other 1'75 mm. 



The species is pretty constantly found in the pro- 

 ventriculus of Nyctobates pennsylvanicus. 



Another interesting Gregarina is frequent in a com- 

 mon myriapod of our forests, the Scolopocryptops sex- 

 spinosus. It resembles the forms described by Kolli- 

 ker as G. Sieboldii and by Siebold as G. oligacantha, 

 referred by Stein to Stylorhynchus, and by Schneider 

 to Hoplorhynchus. These are common in Europe in 

 the larva of a dragon-fly, Callopteryx virgo. The 

 species under consideration I propose to name Gre- 

 garina actinotus. The body is elongated conical, 

 thickest and rounded in advance and acute behind. 

 The cephalic division is depressed spheroid and 

 broader than long, and is surmounted by a long vase- 

 like rostrum expanding at the top in a horizontal 

 wheel-like disk divided at the border into short 

 digitiform rays. Length from .006 to - 52 mm. ; 

 breadth to 0*08 mm. ; rostrum - 08 to 0"1 mm. long. 

 The accompanying figure represents 

 the parasite. It is commonly found 

 in considerable numbers, adherent by 

 the rostrum to the inner surface of the 

 proventriculus, looking like minute 

 Echinorhynchi. 



After finding the curious Gregarine 

 of Scolopocryptops, one morning sub- 

 sequently I found a fine Cermatia for- 

 ceps in my bed room. In it was another 

 species which may be named Gregarina 

 megacephala. The body is elongated 

 ovate and acute or short clavate and 

 obtuse with an unusually large ovoid 

 and often constricted head, surmounted 

 by a small rounded or elongated ap- 

 pendage. Length 0'42 to 0"75 mm. to 

 - 24 broad ; head about one-fourth the 

 length of the body. It approximates 

 Dufouria agilis of Schneider, found in 

 the larva of a Hydracantharis. 



In some little green beetles, IIoplo- 

 diam. cephala bicornis, one of the Tenebrion- 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



11 



idae, I found a number of Gregarines remarkable for 

 the small size of the head and hence the species may- 

 be named Gregarina microcephala. The body is 

 clavate ; the head like a watch crystal with a little 

 ball at the summit. Length 0*35 mm. by 01 wide ; 

 head 0-012 long by 0*04 wide. 



It bears a close resemblance to Echinocephahis his- 

 pidus of Schneider, found in Lithobius forcipatus, but 

 in the one described I at no time found digitiform 

 appendages to the head. 



On Anhydrite. — A remarkable occurrence of A nhy- 

 drite was brought to the attention of the Academy by 

 Prof. George A. Koenig. The specimen was found 

 by Mr. Frank Keeley, among the ballast of the Balti- 

 more and Ohio Railroad track south of the tunnel at 

 cephaia. 125 diam. D arD y j D e l. Co., Pa. Upon a rock of granular 

 structure, which was determined to be Diabase, the anhydrite formed 

 a patch about one inch long, one-half inch wide and one-eighth inch 

 thick. It is of a fine pinkish purple color and pearly lustre. The 

 structure is composite, being an aggregate of prismatic individuals 

 showing an obtuse angle. On closer examination it is found that 

 this angle does not belong to a prism in a crystallographic sense. It 

 is made by two cleavage planes of unequal cleavability, intersecting 



at about 130°. In the adjoining 



( \% 



Fig. 4. 

 Gregarina micro- 



\ 



oP 



oon 00 



>p< 



figure the fragment which was 



measured is projected on the ba- 



50*5' sal plane (oP). The cleavage 



along coPoo is less than along 



coPoo (which reflected a perfect 



image). The cleavage along oP 



is good. The cleavage along 



00P is not mentioned in Dana's 



Handbook. 



Specific gravity = 2-949 (0 ,g 938 substance). B. B. fuses at thin 

 edge to a grayish white enamel, coloring the flame orange. Strong 

 hepar reaction, no color with fluxes. At red heat the color is de- 

 stroyed. No water in the closed tube. Dissolves in strong HCL. 

 Analysis gave : 



Ignition 0-0018 ; BaSo 4 = 0-3355 ; 



A. Substance 0"207 gr. 

 CaO = 0-838. 



B. Substance 0-6463 gr. 

 CaO = = 0-2575. 



Ignition = 

 Insoluble = 



SO 3 = 



0-0025 insoluble ; BaSo 4 =1-0485 ; 

 A B 



0-90 0-90. 



0-40 0-40. 



55-80 55-78. 



CaO 



= 40-49 



39-84. 



97-59 



96-92. 




12 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1889. 



The filtrate from B, after CaC 2 0' had been removed, was evapo- 

 porated, and residuum ignited. It yielded a sodium reaction, but not 

 sufficient to account for the lack of three per cent in the analyses. 

 Iron was found in very small quantity. 

 The pigment appears to be a carbon compound. 

 Pyrite is visible in several places surrounding the anhydrite. 

 A thin section of the rock showed essentially an emerald green 

 mineral (black when thick) which polarized very weakly and showed 

 little dichroism. With it a white, very transparent mineral, which 

 polarizes like a plagioclase. Besides these only small grains of a 

 bluish purple mineral could ba seen. It was possible to separate, 

 by Mercuric iodide, the white mineral in a pure state. 

 Its analysis, made with - 20 gr. gave 



CaO = 0-0228 (diff.) SiO 2 = 55-88 



APO 3 = 0-0568 (white) * APO = 28-40 

 Na'SO 4 = 00210 CaO = 11-14 



Na 2 = 4-58. 



100-00 

 The plagioclase is therefore Labradorite. 



The green mineral could not be freed either from the plagioclase 

 nor from the dark brown grains. The analysis gave 



SiO 2 

 APO 3 

 CaO 

 Na 2 



= 10-92 

 = 5-55 



= 2-15 

 = 0-92 



• Labradorite 



Pyroxene 



SiO 2 =36-531 



APO 3 1-85 



FeO = 12-08 

 100-00 CaO =19-78 



MgO = 9.75 

 Ignition = 0'47 y 

 That the green mineral must betaken as a Pyroxene follows from 

 its optical behavior and also from the fact that the splinters show 

 under the microscope a nearly rectangular cleavage. The nature 

 of the roundish brown grains could not be ascertained. 



We have here the existence of anhydrite as a secondary crystalli- 

 zation on an undoubtedly intrusive rock. It's elements are to 

 be found in the calcium of Labradorite and Pyroxene, and the sul- 

 phur of the Pyrite. But one should expect to see Selenite crystal- 

 lizing under these conditions. Some years ago (Proc. Acad. 1873,) 

 the author showed how anhydrite tails from a solution of calcium 

 sulphate at 150°C. in a sealed tube, but selenite at the boiling point at 

 atmospheric pressure. The existence of high pressure with or without 

 heat would account therefore for the anhydrite on Diabase. The 

 author is not aware that this mineral has heretofore been found 

 among the epigenetic products of crystalline intrusive rocks. 




1889.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 13 



January 8. 



Mr. Edward Goldsmith in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



January 15. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



January 22. 



Mr. John H. Redfeild in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



January 29. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Sternalis Muscle." By S. W. Williston, 

 M. D., was presented for publication. 



Messrs W. Moylan Lansdale, Henry Phillips Coleman, Edward 

 Bancroft and W. Xavier Sudd nth were elected members. 



Signor Jose N. Roverosa of San Juan Bautista, Mexico, and Sir 

 John Lubbock of London were elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



OBSERVATIONS UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL 



IN NEOTOMA FUSCIPES ; A CONTRIBUTION TO THE 



MORPHOLOGY OF THE RODENTIA 



BY R. W. SHUFELDT, C. M. Z. S. 



While collecting in the vicinity of San Bernardino, California, 

 daring the spring of 1887, Mr. F. Stephens secured a female speci- 

 men of Neotoma fuscipes which was far advanced in pregnancy at 

 the time of capture. 



From this source I obtained an embryo of this wood rat, and am 

 under great obligations to Mr. Stephens for the opportunity it has 

 given me to record something in reference to its developmental anat- 

 omy, and my observations upon it will form the subject of the pres- 

 ent paper. 



Neotoma fuscipes is by no means a common species, being restricted 

 in its geographical range to certain parts of the Pacific coast and 

 northern Mexico. I have never personally taken this represen- 

 tative of the genus, but I have on numerous occasions secured its 

 near relative, the form found throughout New Mexico, Neotoma 

 cinerea, of which I have a series of skeletons at my hand, of my own 

 preparing. 



Just prior to birth, the embryo of N fuscipes is quite hairless, and 

 measures in its total length about 4cms between vertex and tip of 

 tail, presenting all the general characteristics of the embryo of this 

 genus of the Murida?. For its total length, the head measures 1 

 centimetre and some few millimetres and in drawing my plates 

 which illustrate this account of its skull, I have enlarged these 

 parts six diameters. 



In working out the skull of this little rodent I have had to make 

 constant reference to the following works, which, though the only 

 ones available to me at the time, by no means pretend to be a com- 

 plete bibliography of the subject, while, on the other hand, they 

 constitute the best aids we possess to embryological research upon 

 the mammalia : 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. On a revision of the Ethmoid Bone 



in the Mammalia. Bull. Mus. Comp. Anat. Harvard 



College, Cambridge, Mass. Nov. 1882, pis. 1-7, pp. 135- 



164. 

 Balfour, F. M. A Treatise on Comparative Embryology. 



London, 1881. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 15 



Flower, W. H. An Introduction to the Osteology of the 

 Mammalia, 1885. Article, "Mammalia" Encyc. Brit. 

 9th Edition, 1883. 

 Forbes, W. A. Coll. Scientific Memoirs. 

 Garrod, A. H. Coll. Scientific Memoirs. 



Huxley, T. H. Elements of Comparative Anatomy. London. 

 1864. A Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals, 

 London, 1871. 

 Owen, Sir Richard. Comparative Anatomy and Physiology 



of Vertebrates. 

 Parker, W. K. The Morphology of the Skull. 1887. 



On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the 

 Mammalia. Phil. Trans, of the Royal Soc. 1885. 

 Parker, W. N. "NYiedersheim's Comparative Anatomy of Ver- 

 tebrates. 1886. 

 Parker, T. J. Zootomy. London, 1884. 



Besides numerous special memoirs of other authors and laborers 

 in similar fields. 



A general survey of the Skull and of the investing bones. 

 Professor Parker, I think, would say that the embryo before me 

 was in the " fourth stage," inasmuch as endostosis has at many points 

 invaded the cartilaginous parts, while ossification is more than ap- 

 parent in such investing bones of the primordial skull as the inter- 

 parietal and the supraoccipital, which latter is as yet in two distinct 

 lateral moieties. 



We might describe the form of the skull of this embryo as being 

 subconoid, the apex being represented by the snout, and the hemi- 

 spherical base by the region of the cranial vault and infraoccipital 

 parts. 



Judging from the skull of an adult of another species, Neotoma 

 cinerea, this form materially changes by the time the animal arrives 

 at maturity, for then the skull is quite flat for its entire superior 

 aspect, and from incisor teeth to occipital condyles. Most of the 

 structures of the basis cranii are to be found in a plane parallel to 

 this superior surface. Then, too, frontal, parietal, and interparietal 

 bones do not quite fulfil in the skull of the adult what they promise 

 in the embryo ; by this I mean that as growth proceeds the mesial por- 

 tions gain area over the first and last mentioned elements, and come 

 to be the chief agents in forming the cranial roof. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



In our embryo the nasals have advanced to no inconsiderable 

 degree of calcification after the manner of the membrane bones 

 among the higher mammalia generally. By chafing their superior 

 surfaces with the edge of the scalpel the grit of the ossificatory state 

 can at once be detected, though they are yet thin and easily punct- 

 ured. Each one is in contact, laterally, for its entire length with 

 the premaxillary of its own side. In front they overlap the cartila- 

 ginous snout, while posteriorly they are separated from the frontals 

 by a membranous suture, the coronal suture of anthropotomy. They 

 curve downwards mesially, and are in contact with each other for 

 their entire lengths. 



A frontal, as another investing membrane bone, seems to be rather 

 further advanced towards ossification than we found a nasal to be, 

 and this pair of bones are, as before remarked, the chief roofing ele- 

 ments at this stage of the middle area' of the skull. Behind and 

 towards the middle line each one presents a rounded angle to the 

 " fontanelle " (fig. 2, fo.), and is separated from the parietal of its 

 own side by a membranous interval. Within either orbit a frontal 

 is in contact with the nascent maxillary margin in front and below, 

 while mesoposteriorly, and at the side, the bone is juxtaposed to the 

 growing margins of the ali- and orbitosphenoids and the squamosal. 

 (Plate I, Fig. 1). 



Mesially, the parietals are well separated from each other by the 

 intervention of the " fontanelle " (Plate I, Fig. 2, fo.). Here, they 

 are at this stage antero-posteriorly rather narrow, but each one be- 

 comes gradually broader as it proceeds outwards and curves down- 

 wards towards the lateral aspect of the cranium, where the bone is 

 separated by a considerable membranous sutural interval from the 

 squamosal for its anterior marginal moiety ; its posterior border 

 jutting freely into the unossified tract above and behind the auditory 

 bulla of the same side. Either parietal shows even better evidence 

 of ossification than the frontal in front of it, being best marked at the 

 middle of the bone, while the periphery is yet largely membranous 

 which fact no doubt allows the bones to assume the position they 

 eventually attain to in the skull of the adult Neotoma. 



There is a large and distinct interparietal, which the writer is 

 inclined to think ossifies from two centres, one on either side of the 

 middle line, though at the present stage it is one piece, and more 

 thoroughly ossified than any of the elements described in the last 

 few paragraphs (Plate II, Figs. 1, 2 and 4, i. p.). It has the 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



form of a lune, its straight edge being directed anteriorly, and the 

 middle third of the same forming the hinder boundary for the 

 "fontanelle," while its arc behind is juxtaposed to the non-united 

 supraoccipitals, the extremities of the bone jutting at either lateral 

 aspect into the unossified area above the auditory bulla. In an 

 adult Neotoma cinerea the interparietal can be easily made out by 

 its sutural margins, and it will be seen that it comes there more to 

 contribute to the cranial roof, rather than to close in the back of the 

 brain-case as it does in our embryo N.fuscipes. 



Of all the investing bones of the outer surface of the cranium in 

 our specimen none possess a greater interest than the squamosal. 

 One of these (sq) stands between the frontal and parietal of the same 

 side above, and the primary structures of the ear and associate parts 

 below. Essentially, at this stage the squamosal is a flat, bone of a 

 pear-shaped outline, the smaller part being directed backwards, and 

 the larger oval moiety forwards, which latter bears near its anterior 

 periphery the forward-projecting zygomatic process. It articulates 

 with the posterior extremity of the jugal of the corresponding side. 

 Even in the adult Xeotoma, the glenoid facette of the squamosal is 

 not nearly as definitely marked as we find it in many other forms of 

 eutherian mammals, so in this embryo the feature is still less pro- 

 nounced at the stage of development in the specimen before us. In 

 figure 1 of my plates I have intentionally slightly dislodged the 

 mandible from its normal position the better to show the embryonic 

 otic structures, which latter have to a less degree been similarly 

 dealt with. 



Apparently one of the scale-like, small, and fairly well ossified 

 lacrymals presents a greater surface to the facial aspect of the skull 

 than it does to the orbital, and at this stage the lacrymal canal 

 (Plate I, Fig. 1, I. c.) may be seen just anterior to the slit-like and 

 extensive infra-orbital foramen. 



Professor Flower has said that this orifice "is always well within 

 the margin of the orbit," 1 but this wood rat undoubtedlv constitutes 

 an exception to the rule, for in the embryo it is found as I have just 

 described it, and in the skulls of the adult specimens of N. cinerea 

 at my hand, the lacrymal canal is found within that vertical fissure 

 which in these rodents represents the infra-orbital foramen. It 

 is here quite large, wedge-shaped, the edge being below, and its 

 roof above formed by its maxillary, which base also forms the verti- 



1 Flower, W. H. Osteology of the Mammalia, 3d Edition, p. 181. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



cal plate of its outer boundary, while its inner wall is formed chiefly 

 by the lacrymal, and to a very small degree, posteriorly, by the 

 frontal. The jugal takes no part in its formation in Neotoma. 



Rodents are notorious for the large size of the premaxillary bones 

 in their skulls, and to this rule the genus now under consideration 

 forms no exception. Here a premaxillary of either side stands 

 between the corresponding nasal and maxillary, preventing those 

 elements of the face from coming in contact at any point. Supe- 

 riorly, it sends backwards a lanceolate-shaped apophysis to overlap 

 the frontal of the same side, and this feature is distinctly shown in 

 Plate I, Figs. 1 and 2. 



Laterally, it makes up the chief side-wall of the conical fore-part 

 of the skull of this embryo, and rounds under to form the roof of the 

 anterior part of the mouth, though here a mesially oval foramen 

 largely prevents it from suturally uniting with the fellow of the 

 opposite side down the middle line (Plate I, Fig. 3). Each one 

 anteriorly and beneath shows a diminutive pitlet, in which the inci- 

 sor tooth is budding out, the latter not quite tilling the hole closely, 

 and withal being yet in an elementary state. Either premaxillary 

 in the oval foramen above referred to, and on the outer aspect of the 

 nasal septum in front, send backwards a teat-like process, into the 

 spinal space ; and in the skull of the adult Neotoma, these processes 

 seem to have finally each pressed down upon the vomer and fused 

 with its infero-anterior part. A premaxillary articulates with a 

 nasal, a frontal, a lacrymal, the vomer, the ethmoidal mass, and with 

 the fellow of the opposite side, and at this stage it seems to have 

 progressed in its ossification, about as far as the nasals have, already 

 described above. 



The maxillary, on either side, is a very important, not to say inter- 

 esting, investing bone of the face and roof of the mouth (mx). It 

 sends backwards a delicate zygomatic process, which underlaps the 

 jugal to complete the zygoma. To some extent anteriorly, it con- 

 tributes to the formation of the bony walls of the orbit, especially 

 where it articulates with the lacrymal. In front, just beyond the 

 infra-orbital foramen, it articulates by a vertical suture with the 

 premaxillary of the same side, while behind this it sweeps down- 

 wards and inwards, to complete the posterior moiety of its own side 

 of the periphery of the incisor foramen, or " the anterior palatine 

 foramen " of Flower, after which it contributes to the osseous oral 

 roof, articulating by a transverse zigzag suture with the palatine, and 




1889] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



at the lateral aspect developing at this stage the elementary alveolar 

 " process " for the lodgment of the molar teeth. These latter are 

 now in a very primitive condition, though their form can be made 

 out with no little distinctness. As in the case of the incisor teeth, 

 their pristine sockets are larger than is necessary to lodge their 

 dental occupants. 



According to Wiedersheim, the jugal (Plate I, Figs. 1, 2 and 3 J) 

 is considered to be one of the investing bones of the outer side of the 

 mouth cavity, as the vomer is considered an investing bone of the 

 mouth cavity proper. In Xeotoma, as in some other rodents, the jugal 

 has an uncommon disposition, as it is overlapped by the zygomatic 

 process of the squamosal, and underlapped by the maxillary. For 

 the most part it is to be found lying along on the superior aspect of 

 the maxillary, while but a limited portion of it is to be seen upon a 

 better view of the arch, at the middle of its continuity. In neither 

 the embryo N. fuscipes, nor in adult specimens of the genus, does 

 the jugal possess any salient characteristics, its sole function being to 

 complete the slender zygomatic arch, and were it not that the de- 

 mands of a universal law exacted its presence, its actual use might 

 easily be dispensed with, for the zygomatic arch could just as well be 

 completed by a meeting of the maxillary and zygomatic process. 

 Indeed in some adult skulls of JY. cinerea, it takes a good lens and 

 careful observation to detect the presence of the jugal bone at all, so 

 perfectly is it moulded to the conformation of this delicate osseous 

 rod, which curves below and well out beyond the orbital cavity, in 

 one way defining its limits, and lending to the skull of this species 

 its well-known and characteristic form. 



The vomer presents nothing peculiar, contributing as it does to the 

 hinder moiety of the nasal septum, and ossifying rather late in the 

 growth of the skull. We may refer to this bone further on, when we 

 come to investigate the formation of the rhinal chambers. 



We next pass to a brief consideration of some of the most interest- 

 ing structures in this or any other mammalian skull ; I refer to the 

 mandible and those parts at its posterior extremity which are con- 

 cerned in the elaboration of the auditory apparatus. Here, to some 

 extent, we are upon debatable premises, and are brought face to face 

 with yet mooted questions in morphology, and consequently must 

 proceed with caution. Plate I, Fig. 1 shows very well the form of 

 the mandible upon its lateral aspect. At this stage it is deep and 

 thick, although the symphysis anteriorly has not as yet coossified, the 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



two halves here being held in juxtaposition by the not inextensive 

 union between the fore ends of the Meckelian cartilaginous rod. 

 Those toothsacs for the lower incisor teeth are about as far advanced 

 as those described for the preinaxillary bones, and this applies with 

 equal truth to the molars of this lower jaw, though perhaps these are 

 not quite as far advanced as the molars of the maxillary above. 



For the most part the mandible has to no small degree ossified. 

 We are to note, however, that the summit of the low and ill-defined 

 "coronoid process " is tipped with nascent cartilage, and this state 

 obtains also with the yet growing condyle, here harbored in the shal- 

 low glenoid cavity of the squamosal on either side. Below these 

 protuberances a prominent angular process is to be observed, also 

 cartilage-tipped as in the case of the condyle and coronoid. These 

 several prominences of the posterior end of either ramus of the lower 

 jaw in this embryo rodent, gives it a very marked vertical depth and 

 a fan-like form, which renders it quite conspicuous. Through the 

 ramus and thoroughly ensheathed by it, longitudinally courses the 

 slender Meckelian rod of cartilage, to fuse anteriorly, as already 

 stated, with its fellow of the opposite side. 



At its hinder and free end, the Meckelian cartilage becomes clubbed 

 and of a peculiar form ; the extremity proper is cupped to receive 

 in articulation the incus, while below this cup the rod sends forwards 

 and downwards a very delicate, cylindrical spur of cartilage, here 

 incorporated in the plane of the membrana tympani, within the semi- 

 arc of the tympanic annulus. These parts seem yet to be largely 

 performed in cartilage, and we see the malleus in the hinder end of 

 this Meckelian cartilage, while the labors of Salensky, Fraser and 

 Kitchen Parker seem to have at last definitely decided that " the 

 incus is the upper element of the first or mandibular arch." 

 Here in this embryo Neotoma, the incus develops an unusually long 

 posterior crus, as shown in Figure 1, extending over towards the 

 auditory bulla (an). As in the vast majority of the higher groups 

 of the mammalia, the stapes is stirrup-shaped, and its foot-piece 

 closes up the fenestra ovalis, and this stapes according to the most 

 recent researches has been said to correspond with the hyomandibu- 

 lar of fishes, or in other words is the upper element of the hyoid arch, 

 as the incus, as we have just said, is the off-constricted piece of the 

 proximal extremity of the mandibular arch. Agreeing with the 

 first two described auditory ossicles, the stapes at this stage in Neo- 

 toma fuscipes, seems yet to be wholly in cartilage. I failed to detect 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



the rudimentary interhyal in the tendon of the stapedius muscle, but 

 might do so were additional material at hand. These wood rats have 

 tympanic bullae of no inconsiderable size, and in the dried skull of 

 an old A 7 , dnerea their lower surfaces are quite transparent, each 

 being somewhat laterally compressed and inclined towards each 

 other, so that were their imaginary horizontal long axes produced 

 to the front they would intersect at a point just slightly anterior to 

 the posterior narial aperture. 



In form, then, these bullae are subcompressed ovoid, where mesi- 

 al ly they are moulded upon the bones they come in contact with 

 at the base of the cranium at its infero-external aspect, which have 

 to do with the auditory chamber. 



Turning for the moment from our consideration of the proper 

 " investing bones," I desire to pass a few remarks upon the " hyoi- 

 dean apparatus." Essentially, this seems to be built up upon the 

 plan of these parts as we find them in the more highly organized 

 eutherian mammalia generally. In the specimen before us, however, 

 ossification even at this stage appears but to have advanced slowly, 

 the several segments of the arch yet being largely in cartilage. 



All the elements of these parts seem to be present in this embryo, 

 and the most notable feature to me is the form of the basi-branchial 

 as I make it out. It is far more extensively curved than Parker 

 found it to be in the hedgediog, by which I mean the curved rod of 

 cartilage composing it is longer (Plate I, b. h. br.). By examining 

 the arch in an adult N. cinerea, the same feature seems to be present, 

 for the " body of the hyoid " is there larger and curved. Another 

 mammal, the dog, as drawn by Flower, also shows a curved basi- 

 branchial, whereas in the armadillo it is a medium piece united 

 apparently with the thyrohyals (Parker). The thyrohyals in the 

 embryo Neotoma are but feebly developed (t. hy), and remain in- 

 conspicuous after ossification in them is completed. Agreeing with 

 most ordinary mammals the three remaining pieces of the hyoid 

 present nothing of marked peculiarity. 



Returning to the investing bones of the skull, there yet remains 

 two of them to be described in the present connection, viz. : — the 

 palatine and the pterygoid. 



If there be any superficial ossific deposit yet in either pterygoid 

 (Plate I, Fig. 3, pg) the writer failed to discover it after a very 

 careful investigation. We are aware that in the pig at the fourth 

 stage of its development the pterygoids are somewhat advanced in 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



their ossification, but here in our specimen each pterygoid proper 

 now consists in a well-pronounced subcylindrical cartilaginous rod- 

 let to some extent centrally ossified, which, on either hand, projects 

 out from behind the ossifying palatine of its own side. External 

 to either one of these we observe the continuation of the bone in its 

 'external pterygoid plate,' which is also in cartilage, and arises 

 both from the ali- and basisphenoidal regions. Neotoma cinerea, in 

 the skull of the adult, shows well how the pterygoids are finally 

 fashioned in bone at maturity, and if they represent the condition 

 for the genus, we find that the external plate in each is nearly hori- 

 zontal in position, and raised above the frontal and sphenoidal 

 regions; the sutural traces remain quite distinct; the "hamular 

 processes " have their extremities produced, and turned slightly 

 outwards, while these apophyses are not far apart mesially, nor do 

 their ends lack much of reaching the auditory bulla on either side, 

 where the Eustachian tube opens. 



Passing next to a palatine bone, we find it to be ossified to no in- 

 considerable extent, with the salient angles of its horizontal portion 

 rounded off, its borders being yet membranous, or in an imperfect 

 cartilaginous stroma, a tissue furnished by the epiblast during the 

 growth of the embryo, and now taking on ossification. 



The ''posterior palatine foramina" are easily found, while the 

 hinder margins of these bones unite to form the lower free edge of 

 the posterior bases. 



Having the most usual relations to the nasal septum and surround- 

 ing parts, the ascending lamina of a palatine is not so thoroughly 

 ossified as the horizontal portion of the bone ; and at this stage of 

 its growth, this embryo Neotoma may be said to have a cleft palate, 

 so wide are the medial sutures between the elements. 



Of the endocranium, and the development of the cartilage bones. 



To Professor Kitchen Parker are we indebted more than to any 

 other single writer since the dawn of anatomical science to the pres- 

 ent time for our knowledge of the morphology of the vertebrate 

 skull, and from his recent writings, the mammalian skull in partic- 

 ular. Under the influence of his never weary hand, has this, one of 

 the most difficult problems which man has ever investigated, grown 

 out into the light with all the beauty associated with the budding of 

 a complete flower. In reading his "Structure and Development 

 of the Skull in the Mammalia" one loses himself as though he were 




1889.] .NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



perusing pages of the most fascinating romance, and is led on step by 

 step, as " the thing " grows, and shapes, and matures, with an almost 

 irresistible passion for the marvelous story. Omitting those parts 

 which I have referred to above, and confining ourselves to the 

 structures which properly fall within the present section, we are 

 clearly shown how in the endocranium in its pristine membranous 

 condition there is laid down at its base in primitive cartilage the 

 pair of rods which are the ground plan of the future brain-case, the 

 harborage of that most powerful of all organs, the encephala. These 

 rods of the trabecules cranii, which behind embrace the notochord 

 (the parachordals), while anteriorly their segmentations become the 

 trabecules proper and enclose the primitive pituitary space. 



From these simple beginnings, part after part, grows and evolves, 

 until in due time we have before us the mature skull with all its 

 associated structures. At the appointed instant sense-capsules are 

 born and elaborated pari passu as the cranial moulding proceeds ; 

 and nerves and vessels burrow with precision through tracts and by- 

 ways long known to their kind in the ancestral types of the species, 

 guided by the ceaselessly acting laws of variation and evolution. 



Turning to the nether aspect of the basis cranii in our embryo Neo- 

 tomu fuscipes we find the foramen magnum (Plate I, Fig. 3,/. m.) to 

 be of a subelliptical' outline, a form retained probably throughout 

 life, as it obtains in the skulls of other adult Neotomas which I have 

 examined. The supraoccipital is still in two parts, the medial ver- 

 tical suture being very evident. It is, however, rapidly ossifying, 

 bone having advanced to the superior arc of the foramen, and no 

 doubt that early in the next stage the supraoccipital would be in 

 one piece (s. o.). 



The condyles show very prettily, and as structures developed by 

 the exoccipitals (e, o.) they are well started in the process of ossifica- 

 tion, though their ossific centres have not yet impinged upon either 

 the supra or basioccipital. Much cartilage is still to be found, both 

 above them and at their sides. 



Embedded in this material below, we are to observe just in front 

 of the occipital foramen the subquadrilateral form of the basiocci- 

 pital, already nicely started in bone. This osseous part does not as 

 yet reach the auditory bulla on either hand, though posteriorly it 

 arrives at the margin of the foramen magnum. Anteriorly, a car- 

 tilaginous tract intervenes between the concave border of the basi- 

 occipital and the ossific centre which represents the future basisphe- 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



noicl. This latter (bs) is at present but a small, squarish piece of 

 bone occurring in the basic cartilage, just posterior to the pterygoid, 

 which in the skull of an old iV. cinerea, is wedge-shaped in outline 

 for its exposed surface, and stands between the pterygoids, the nar- 

 row end to the front, separated by a distinct suture from the pre- 

 sphenoid, and the broad end behind, separated by a similar suture 

 from the basi-occipital ; the three bones, thus continuous, making a 

 characteristic area having the form of an acute isosceles triangle. 

 Nearly every trace of the notochord has disappeared in our embryo 

 Neotoma at this stage, its former presence being but faintly indicated 

 by a whitish line traversing the basi-occipital plate in a medio- 

 longitudinal direction, and entirely disappearing near its middle. 

 Beyond, the presphenoid shows commencing osseous deposit in a 

 narrow line down its length, but is still chiefly performed in cartil- 

 age, the former being barely perceptible. Referring again to skulls 

 of the N. cinerea, adult specimens, it becomes worthy of remark, that 

 the supraoccipital region and the foramen magnum are both in near- 

 ly the same plane, it being quite vertical, and almost at right 

 angles with the horizontal plane in which the interparietal and 

 parietals lie. This part of the cranium in our embryo, as already 

 stated above, is more or less rounded as shown in the figures. To 

 the outer side of either exoccipital is seen a distinct and spine-like 

 paroccipital, which feature I fail to find in so early a stage as the 

 embryo before us represents. 



Professor Parker in his famous work upon the ' Morphology of 

 the Skull ' in alluding to the development of the pig at its ' fourth 

 stage,' contends that there the notochord is not yet quite obliterated 

 in the basioccipital, though it is rapidly becoming so. He also 

 points out that a separate ossific centre, in that animal, is to be 

 found in either massive condyle, but they soon coalesce with the ex- 

 occipitals on either side. Agreeing with Neotoma fuscipes, the supra- 

 occipital in the pig at this stage is in two pieces, or " patches" as 

 Professor Parker expresses it, and they " run into one another in a 

 day or two " (p. 288). 



Of the three bones that unite to form the periotic ossification, I 

 find but one that as yet appears in any Avay advanced beyond a car- 

 tilaginous condition ; and this is the opisthotic (Plate II, Fig. 5, o.p.) 

 After the membrane bones which form the vault of the skull have 

 been duly removed, this auditory osseous element may be detected 

 posterior to, and to the other side of the periotic capsule, which is 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



otherwise in nascent cartilage, though quite dense and on the verge 

 of ossifying. This internal view of the cranial casket, reveals the 

 fact that at this stage at least the periotic mass is but slightly eleva- 

 ted above the general level of the floor of the brain-case, and in no 

 way as prominent as the external auditory bulla on either side. It 

 still, however is more or less rounded, and it is only later in life 

 apparently that this projection becomes somewhat angulated as we 

 see it in the adult skull. In this region in the cranium of the em- 

 bryo Neotoma the usual vascular and nerve foramina can be easily 

 made out. 



Already in another paragraph, I have alluded to the state in which 

 we find the basi- and presphenoid (Plate II, Fig. 6, b. s. and p. s.) 

 and it will be seen that the anterior part of the cranial floor is fairly 

 well-paved by two other ossifications of mammalian skull. I refer 

 to the rather large and squarish alisphenoids (al. s.), one on either 

 side of the first-named element, and the more oval orbitosj)henoids, 

 one on either side of the presphenoidal cartilage. These bones are 

 already well-ossified and are pierced by the usual nerve foramina ; 

 the latter by the optic (II), and the former by the third branch of 

 the fifth (V 3 ) through the foramen ovale. A slight pituitary depres- 

 sion is to be observed at its most usual site upon the presphenoid. 

 The arrangement of these parts then, with its true stirrup-shaped 

 stapes, indicates that Neotoma holds quite an exalted position, struct- 

 urally, among the eutherian mammalia. 



Beyond the sphenoidal region the endocranium gradually but 

 rapidly narrows, and just posterior to the nasal structures and cham- 

 bers we meet with a sub-vertical cribriform plate (cr.p.) showing mi- 

 nute perforations for the passage of the nerves. Mesially, a posterior- 

 ly rounded crista galli (Plate II, Fig. 5, cr. g.) is to be seen. These 

 parts are as yet all performed in cartilage. 



By carefully removing the investing bones from the fore part of 

 the skull we at once bring into view the chondrified elements of 

 the nasal organs. We have already alluded to the vomer, and now 

 it can be easily detached from the cartilaginous lamina perpendicu- 

 lnris, with which it is articulated by a longitudinal median groove 

 traversing its entire superior margin. 



The base, for the vomer at this stage is entirely in bone, is some 

 3 cms. long, and sharp, or more or less sharp, along its inferior edge. 

 As in most rodents the lamina perpendiculars is produced forwards 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



as the septum nasi (Fig. 6, s. ?i.). Cribriform plate and lamina per- 

 pendicularis together form the mesethmoid. 



Jacobson's Organs, one on either side of the septum, are, as in the 

 vast majority of the rodentia, well developed in this embryo; and 

 as in the case of Lepus appear to be ensheathed by the backward, 

 extending, posteriorly free terminating palatine processes of the 

 snout, as seen in Figure 6 (re. c). These "organs" have been 

 described by Prof. Wiedersheim (Parker's translation) as being "a 

 paired accessory nasal cavity, which in an early embryonic stage be- 

 comes entirely separated from the nasal chamber, and which is 

 supplied by the olfactory and trigeminal nerves." They are sur- 

 rounded by the cartilages of Jacobson, likewise paired and of a scroll- 

 like form. Uniting with the antero-ventral aspect of the septum 

 nasi beneath, we are to note the ali-nasal cartilage on either hand, 

 encircling the external nostrils (e. n. and al. ».), while the ali-t-eptal, 

 one on each side of the septum on the dorsal aspect, run the entire 

 length and roof over the nasal chambers (Plate II, Fig. 5, al. sp.) 

 Large and of peculiar form, the aliethmoids form a striking feature 

 here, and may be seen both upon dorsal and ventral aspects. To 

 some extent they form the roof of each rhinal chamber, as well as 

 the sides and floor. Inferiorly, they become much expanded behind, 

 rounded, encircling submesial vacuities, as shown in Figure 6, (Plate 

 II, al. e.). 



Finally, turning to the ventral aspect of this minute endocranium 

 we see external to either recurrent cartilage, right and left of the 

 median ossified vomer (v), the inferior turbinal proper (/'. tb.), each 

 one in addition to its usual attachments in mammals of this order 

 is here connected with the septum nasi anteriorly, and terminates 

 behind in a teat-like process, extending somewhat further in 

 that direction than does the vomer. They swell at the middle of 

 their continuity, being convex externally and concave upon their 

 vomerine aspects. In a former paragraph, I have already alluded 

 to the " recurrent cartilages," so designated by Parker (re. c), and 

 these may now be seen upon this view. Especial attention is invited 

 to them as they are the essential capsules which enclose the organs 

 of Jacobson. To study them properly it becomes necessary to gently 

 press outwards the inferior turbinate. At present they are in car- 

 tilage entirely, thin, and of an elegant scroll-like form, being for the 

 most part open superiorly, and in contact with the vomer, mesially, 

 being in either ease outgrowths of the alee nasi. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



With this I close the present account of the cranium in this em- 

 bryo of one of our not abundant species of American rodents. Upon 

 some future occasion I trust to compare it quite extensively with the 

 development and morphology of the skull in other types of mammals 

 of this country, especially the rodentia. 



Explanation of Plates I and II. 



Note. — The figures of these two plates were drawn and colored 

 by the author directly from his dissections, and in them the mem- 

 brane bones have been simply shaded ; the cartilage bones colored 

 orange ; and the endocranium and other cartilaginous parts, purple. 



In all the figures the structures are increased six times the size of 

 life, and the following letters used as abbreviations : 



ag. p. Angular process. 



al. e. Aliethmoid. 



al. n. Alinasal. 



al. s. Alisphenoid. 



al. sp. Aliseptal. 



a. ty. Annulus tympanicus. 

 au. Auditory capsule. 



b. h. br. Basihyobranchial. 

 b. o. Basiocclpital. 



b. s. Basisphenoid. 



cr. g. Crista galli. 



cr. p. Coronoid process. 



a: pi. Cribriform plate. 



cl. Dentary. 



e. hy. Epihyal. 



e. n. External nostrils. 

 /. Frontal. 



f. m. Foramen magnum. 

 fo. Fontanelle. 



r/l.f. Glenoid cavity. 



i. Incus. 



i. />. Interparietal. 



i. tb. Inferior turbinal. 



j. Jugal. 



I. Lacrymal. 



I. c. Lacrymal canal. 



mk. Meckel's cartilage. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



mafuscipes; the same skull as is figured in Plate I, fig. 

 1 (X 6). All the investing bones have been removed, 

 and superfluous parts dissected away. 

 Fig. 6. The same specimen shown in Fig. 5, under view. 




18<s9.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 29 



February 5. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



Messrs Joseph Leidy, J. P. Lesley, Persifor Frazer, Angelo Heil- 

 prin and W. B. Scott were elected to constitute the Committee on 

 the Hayden Memorial Geological Award. 



February 12. 

 Mr. Wm. W. Jefferis in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : — 



"New Species of Shells from New Hebrides." By W. D. Hart- 

 man, M. D. 



" Note on Elagastis bipinnulatus." By Seth E. Meek and Charles 

 H. Bollman. 



February 19. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



The Sabre-tooth Tiger of Florida. — Prof. Leidy directed at- 

 tention to a specimen recently received from our fellow member, 

 Joseph Willcox, now in Florida. Mr. Willcox writes that he found 

 it in a limestone quarry and that it appeared to him to possess some 

 interest. This it certainly does, as it proves to be the skull of that 

 most formidable of felines, the extinct Sabre-tooth Tiger, variously 

 described under the names of Drepanodon, Machairodus and Smil- 

 odon. The specimen consists of the nearly complete cranium with 

 the greater portion of one side of the face, which has lost the teeth 

 but retains all the alveoli. Of the molar teeth the first and last of 

 the series had been shed and the alveoli obliterated. The skull in- 

 dicates an animal approximating in size the existing Tiger and 

 Lion. It also approximates in size that of Machairodus neogaeus 

 of South America, than which it is rather more than an inch less in 

 length, breadth and depth. It exhibits other slight differences, but 

 all may be only of varietal or even individual significance. Ee- 

 garding the specimen as indicating a distinct variety or species it 

 may be named Drepandon, or Machairodus floridanus. Its 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 1889.] 



sabre-tooth canine is of less breadth than in the former, and the 

 hiatus in advance is considerably less, indicating a proportionately 

 smaller inferior canine. The zygoma is absolutely deeper and flatter. 

 Of Machairodus neogaeus, we possess the cast of a skull, from the 

 bone-caverns of Brazil, the original of which is in the natural history 

 museum of Paris. Dr. H. Burmeister has described and figured a 

 complete skeleton of this species, from the pampas formation of the 

 Argentine Republic, preserved in the museum of Buenos Ayres. 

 Prof. Cope, in the "American Naturalist" of 1880, notices another 

 skeleton from the same region, under the name of Smilodon necator. 

 With Dr. Burmeister, Dr. Leidy regarded all these as pertaining 

 to one species, and thought it probable that the Florida skull 

 might also belong to the same. 



Comparative measurements of the Florida, skull, the cast of the 

 Brazil skull and Dr. Burmeister's figures of the Argentine skull are 

 given below, but some of them, from the imperfection of the means 

 are to be regarded as only approximative^ correct. The measure- 

 ments are given in millemetres. 



Florida. Argentine. Brazil. 

 Length of skull from occipital con- 

 dyles to incisive border . . . 285 330 330 

 Breadth of skull at widest part of 



zygoma 190 230 230? 



Depth of skull at post-glenoid tuber- 

 cle 125 164 160? 



Length of skull from behind zygoma 



to incisive alveoli 210 245 225 



Breadth at mastoid processes . . 126 143 140 



Breadth of narrowest portion of 



cranium 57 57 



Breadth at occipital condyles . . 105 112 



Breadth of face at sectorial molars 150 170 



Breadth of face at canines ... 94 112 110? 



Fore and aft space of the teeth . . 140 146 163 



Fore and aft space of two molars . 55 62 63 



Transverse space of the incisors . 58 66 55 



Breadth fore and aft of sectorial 



molar alveolus 37 43 42 



Breadth fore and aft of second pre- 

 molar alveolus 16 18 18 



Breadth fore and aft of canine 



alveolus 40 45 53 



Breadth transverse of canine alveolus 20 20 25 

 Breadth fore and aft of glenoid ar- 

 ticulation 25 25 



Breadth transverse of glenoid artic- 

 ulation 50 50 



Depth of face at infra-orbital mar- 

 gin 60 55 53 



Depth of zygoma 46 38 43 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



In association with the skull of the Tiger, Mr. Willcox found a 

 cervical vertebra, six lower molars and five incisors of a Horse. 

 They have the same appearance of preservation as the former and 

 are probably cotemporary fossils, though they present no distinctive 

 characters from the corresponding parts of the Domestic Horse. 

 With them there was also found a lower molar of a Llama, Auche- 

 n in minor. 



IAnguatula Diesingii from the Sooty Mangabey. — Mr. J. E. Ives 

 remarked that in preparing for maceration a specimen of Cercocebus 

 fuliginosus, he found that the great omentum contained a large 

 number of encysted specimens of Lingaatula Diesingii. The cysts 

 occurred almost invariably in the fatty portions of the membrane. 

 A few specimens also existed in the lungs and pleurae, and in the 

 peritoneal lining of the abdominal cavity. This form has not been 

 recorded before from Cercocebus fuliginosus. In 1848, Van Beneden 

 described the species from the mesentery of Cynocephalus mormon. 

 In 1849, under the synonym of Pentastomum tornatum Creplin 

 placed on record the finding of it by Gurlt in the greater omentum 

 of Macacus Cynomolgus, and by Schultze in the omentum and 

 mesentery of Cynocephalus mormon. In 1850, under the name of 

 Pentastomum euryzonum, Diesing redescribed Van Beneden's form, 

 and Dr. Leidy recorded it " from the surface of the liver beneath the 

 peritoneum " in Cynocephalus porcarius. The monkey in which 

 this parasite was found had recently died in the Zoological Garden, 

 and had been presented to the Academy by the Society. 



February 26. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 

 " On two minerals from Delaware Co., Penna." By F. A. Genth. 

 " Contribution to the Life-Histories of Plants, No. IV." By 

 Thomas Meehan. 



Mr. Edwin J. Houston, was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



NOTES ON GEOLOGY AND MINERALOGY. 

 BY JOHN EYERMAN. 



Fossil Foot-prints from the Jura (?)- Trias of New Jersey. — The speci- 

 mens to be described were collected two years ago at the quarries of 

 the Messrs. Clark, near Milford, Hunterdon Co., and after making 

 brief descriptions and drawings of the more interesting specimens, 

 they were immediately forwarded to the Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology, at Cambridge. No less than two hundred specimens were 

 collected ; many of them, however, were too indistinct to be determined. 



The following tracks have been accurately determined: 



The grouping is after Hitchcock. 



PACHVDACTVLOUS GROUP. 

 Genus I. BRONTOZOUM. 



B. isodactylum. (Hitchcock.) 



Two feet of three toes each. Length of foot 4 to 5 inches. Step 

 5 to 6 inches. The predominant species at this locality. On gray 

 sand-stone. 



Genus III. GRALLATOR. 

 G. cuneatus. (Hitchcock.) 



Two feet of three toes each. Length of foot 4 to 5 inches. Step 

 22 to 24 inches. On gray sand-stone. 



G. tenuis. (Hitchcock.) 



Two feet of three toes each. Length of foot 2 to 3 inches. Step 

 9 inches. On gray sand-stone. 



MARSUPIALOID GROUP. 



Genus II. ANOMOZPUS. 



A. minor. 



Two hind-feet of three toes each and two fore-feet of five toes 

 each. Length of hind-foot 82 inches; of heel 4 inches. Step 9 in- 

 ches. This track was first observed by Dr. T. C. Porter, in the quarry 

 of Smith Clark, about a half mile west of the quarry which furnished 

 the above (Brontozoum and Grallator.) The track is on the red 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



shale, and is rather indistinct. No other tracks have been found at 

 this locality. 



Tracks of Invertebrates. 

 Harpagopus dubius Hitchcock. 



Two toes. Length of foot 21 inches. 

 Tracks of Annelids. Hitchcock. 

 ITnisulcus Marshi Hitchcock. 



This track forms a beautiful loop; the groove is about | inch wide. 



Unisulcus minutus. 



This track is about tV inch wide. 



Jura (?)- Trias flora, from Milford. 



Only two specimens have been obtained ; both undoubtedly Clat- 

 hropteris platyphylla (Saporta.) 

 Some New Pennsylvania and New Jersey Mineral Localities : — 



Calamine occurs in stalactitic, botryoidal and granular massive 

 forms, coating limonite on the farm of S. D. Von Steuben, near 

 Dryland Station, Northampton Co. It resembles the Friedensville 

 calamine 



Friedensville Calamine: — An analysis of this calamine from the 

 Ueberroth mine made several years ago, afforded me 



Si 2 24-32 



Fe 2 3 2-12 



H 2 O 786 



Zn O 65-05 



99-35 



I believe this to be the first recorded analysis of calamine from 

 this well-known locality. 



Molybdenite occurs in thin plates incrusting quartz, at Marble 

 Hill, in Warren Co., N. J., opposite Easton. 



Graphite also occurs at the same locality incrusting granite. 



Malachite occurs at Flint Hill, near Bingen, Northampton Co., in 

 light-green masses associated with quartz, and incrusting the Meso- 

 zoic conglomerate it is found near Leithsville. 



It is also found at the sand-stone quarry of the Messrs. Clark, near 

 Milford, N. J. 




34 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1889 



Chalcocite. — Several years ago I observed a single specimen of 

 chalcocite in quartz at the Ecton whim shaft near Shannonville, 

 Montgomery Co. 



Aragonite occurs at Sherrer's quarry on the Delaware river road, 

 about a mile above Easton, in beautiful snow-white masses, associated 

 with serpentine ; also in silky fibers. 



Quartz. — Perfect quartz crystals (one of which is 3] inches in 

 length) have been found at the " Court House lot " Easton, and in 

 large grouj)s at Flint Hill, near Bingen, Northampton Co. 



Pyrite from St. Peters, Chester Co. — I have observed the follow- 

 ing forms and planes of pyrite from this well-known locality : 



(H), 3 1, 1, 2-2, i, i-2. 



2 and some combinations as follows: 



1 A i-'2 O A 2 

 OAi-2 OA3l 



(0) H A 1 i (i X 2) 



Melaconite and Malachite have been obtained at Franklintown, 

 Adams Co. 



Apophylllte from St. Peter's. 



One perfect crystal in my possession measures 2 in. [-2 in. The 

 form is O. 1. i-i. Other planes observed are I. i-2. i.-i. O. 1. An 

 analysis made in June afforded me 



Si 2 51-63 



Ca O 25-42 



K 2 O 6-25 



H 2 O 16-58 



99-90 

 Sp. qr. 2.35. 



A complete and revised list of the minerals occurring at this 

 locality is here annexed. * Indicates occurrence in small quantities. 



Stilbite* apophyllite, aragonite, pyroxene (massive and in crystals) 

 pyrite (many forms) chalcopyrite, chrysoeolla* malachite* calcite 

 (and Iceland spar) byssolite* byssolitic calcite, melanite, actolitein 

 magnetite (massive and in crystals) serpentine, crythrite* pyrallo- 

 lite, glauconite, orthoclase (radiated) bornite.* 



New Minerals from Cornwall, Lebanon Co. — I have been able to 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 35 



identify the following new minerals, all of which occur on the 

 "Big Hill":— 



Neolite. — In radiated masses of grayish-white color. 



Chrysolite. — Small crystals of brown color associated with mag- 

 netite. 



Andradite. — Small crystals of brownish-red color imbedded in 

 quartzose rock. 



Lepidolite. — A small quantity of this mineral was found as an in- 

 crustation upon quartz. 



Analcite. — This interesting species was found in cavities in the 

 magnetite. This mineral and lepidolite are new minerals for Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Chloropal and Repidolite are found in considerable quantities. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF ORTHOPRISTIS FROM THE 



GALAPAGOS ISLANDS. 



BY DAVID S. JORDAN AND BERT FESLER. 



Orthopristis lethopristis. Sp. now 



Head S\ in length to base of caudal ; depth 3 ; D. XII, 14; A. 

 Ill, 11; scales 8-65 ca 15; length of type 15 inches. Maxillary 3 

 in head ; eye 4| ; preorbital as broad as eye; snout 2| in head ; pec- 

 toral Ito ; 4th dorsal spine 2| ; 2nd anal spine 6.J ; first soft ray of 

 anal 31 ; base soft dorsal 1§ times in base of spinous dorsal. 



Type, No. 26,947, Museum of Comparative Zoology. From the 

 Galapagos Islands. 



Body rather elongate in form, intermediate between that of 

 0. brevipinnis and that of 0. chalceus ; back elevated and com- 

 pressed, especially anteriorly, the profile regularly rounded. Snout 

 long, moderately sharp. Mouth larger than in any other Orthopristis, 

 the maxillary reaching to opposite front of eye. Eye moderate. 

 Anterior nostrils large. Preojiercle entire, the border scarcely 

 crenulate, no projecting seme of any sort. Lips thick ; teeth small, 

 the outer above longer, slender and close-set. Gill rakers x -(- 14, 

 of moderate length, a little shorter than pupil. 



Pectoral falcate, rather long. Dorsal low, rather sharply notched, 

 the spines low and slender, the soft rays low, highest toward 

 the front. Anal long and rather low, with straight, free border, the 

 small spines graduated, the third scarcely half height of first ray. 

 Caudal peduncle long. Caudal deeply forked. Some series of 

 scales on soft dorsal and anal, a row 7 close behind each ray, much as 

 in 0. brevipinnis. 



Color in spirits dark gray, not silvery ; center of each scale dark, 

 these spots forming continuous streaks along the rows of scales on 

 back and sides much as in Hcemvlon parra, but the scales are smaller 

 and the spots fully continuous ; the stripes above are straight or 

 gently curved, not wavy; above lateral line they run upward and 

 backward at an angle which grows less posteriorly, those on caudal 

 peduncle being horizontal ; those below lateral line rather less dis- 

 tinct but straight and horizontal ; fins rather dark ; opercular edge, 

 membrane and axil dusky. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



This species is described from a single example, 15 inches long, 

 No. 26,947, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, from the Gala- 

 pagos Islands. It is apparently most nearly related to Orthopristis 

 brevipinnis (Steindachner), differing in the entire preopercle and in 

 other respects. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



THE STERNALIS MUSCLE. 

 BY S. W. WILLISTOST, M. D. 



Of the many interesting muscular anomalies of the human subject, 

 few, if any, have been more enigmatical than the sternalis. At 

 various times, and by various observers, since the days of Albinus, 

 and earlier, it has been regarded as a continuation of the rectus 

 abdominis, perhaps the most prevalent view, and endorsed by Bar- 

 deleben ; as a part of the stern o-mastoid ; as pertaining to the panicu- 

 lus carnosus group, a view which the eminent anatomist Turner has 

 favored ; as a muscle sui generis, without homologue in other 

 animals ; or as a muscle of the pectoral group, which seems to be the 

 most probable, as well as most recent theory. Neither can we say 

 whether the muscle is vestigial or rudimentary — I use the words in 

 Ryder's sense — though evidence points to the former. But if a 

 vestige, and not a muscle developing, we ought to find a counter- 

 part of it in other animals, which, so far, has not been done, unless 

 indeed, we call it a skin-muscle, which seems very improbable. 

 What then is it, and what are its functions ? 



From Gruber's 1 and Turner's 2 researches, it appears to occur in 

 the normal human subject, in some form or other, in about three 

 per cent, of all cases. In its normal or typical form, as represented 

 in the case figured herewith, it appears to occur in less than one per 

 cent, of all cases. But, while so abnormal in the normal subject, 

 it appears to be normal in the abnormal subject,- — that is, it is 

 almost invariably present in anencephalous monsters. Abraham 3 

 found it in six out of seven anencephali, Shepherd 4 in eight out of 

 nine. The latter adds " the fact that this muscle occurs so 

 commonly in the brainless monsters would point rather to its being 

 a rudiment than a new muscle appearing in man." Anencephali 

 are usually females ; perhaps that fact may add strength to Albrecht's 

 argument that woman approaches the brutes in structure more 

 than does man ! 



However, as first suggested by Abraham, affirmed by Cunningham 5 

 and confirmed by Shepherd, it seems probable that the muscle belongs 



1 Mem. de l'Acad. Imp. de St. Petersbourg, iii, I860. 



2 Journ. Anat. and Phys. 1. 246, 1867. 



3 Trans. Acad. Med. in Ireland, i, 1883. 



4 Jour. Anat. and^Phys. xix, 1885; ibid, xxiii, 18S9. 

 6 Journal Anat. and Phys. xviii, 1884. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



to the pectoral group, and is apparently a muscle of respiration, when 

 functionable. Its nerve supply was found uniformly to come from 

 the anterior thoracic by Cunningham ; Shepherd found the same 

 innervation in each of twelve muscles, two of which, however, had 

 also an additional supply from the intercostals. Bardeleben, * who, 

 however, completely ignores the researches of Cunningham and 

 Shepherd, states that the nerve supply, wherever he has traced it, 

 has been invariably from the third and fourth intercostals. The 

 evidence, however, seems to be against Bardeleben. Based upon 

 this innervation, Bardeleben gives the following opinion : " Die In- 

 nervirung dieser typischer Varietat, wie ich sie bezeichnen mochte, 

 geschieht soweit Untersuchungen vorlegen, durch intercostal" and, 

 as the rectus abdominis has the same innervation, we must consider 

 the sternalis as a continuation of that muscle. He would call the 

 muscle " Rectus thoracis superficialis". He believes the muscle to be 

 vestigial. His " typscher Varietat" is that here figured. 



The case here described would be worthy of record, if only for the 

 extraordinary development of the muscle, on both sides, but there 

 are other facts connected therewith that give it an additional interest. 

 My attention was called to the muscles by two students, Messrs. 

 C. A. Tuttle and TV. P. Baldwin, in the practical anatomy room of 

 Yale. The subject was that of a male above thirty years of age, 

 much below the ordinary stature, and of slender, almost delicate 

 structure throughout. On the left side the muscle was nearly an 



inch and a half in its greatest width, 

 flattened, and nearly symmetrically 

 narrowed to its tendinous " inser- 

 tion." The round tendon began a 

 little below the cartilage of the sec- 

 ond rib, and was continuous with the 

 outer part of the tendon of the ster- 

 nomastoid, on which there were no 

 fleshy fibres for some distance above 

 the upper border of the manubrium. 

 Over the cartilage of the fifth rib 

 the muscle became rather suddenly 

 aponeurotic and continuous with 

 the sheath of the rectus abdominis. 

 The glistening aponeurotic fibres 

 diverged, fan-shaped, the larger part 



*Anatomischer Anzeiger iii, 324, 1 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



turning inwards to pass over the inner border of the rectus ; others 

 passed directly downward, while still others turned outwards and 

 downwards over the external oblique. There were no fibres con- 

 tinuous with those of the abdominal muscles, and none inserted into 

 the ribs or sternum. This arrangement of the muscle seems to be 

 the normal one ; though, in the majority of cases either origin or 

 insertion, or both, may be materially different. The chief arterial 

 supply was derived from a branch, of considerable size, from the 

 internal mammary artery, which perforated the third intercostal 

 space. I regret my inability to trace the nerve supply. Shepherd 

 found the nerve almost constantly lying between the upper and 

 lower divisions of the pectoral. 



On the right side, the muscle was quite the same in origin and 

 insertion, and of similar size, except for the additional portion that 

 will now be described. The subclavian muscle of the left side was 

 larger, and more fleshy than the normal one of the right side, and 

 none of its fibres were inserted into the costal cartilage, the upper 

 ones uniting with the manubrium, but the larger number passing 

 downward and inwards, through a space left in the origin of the 

 pectoral from the sternum, and, forming a slender, round tendon 

 which passed obliquely to the right side of the sternum to be inserted, 

 partly into the side of the sternum and upper border of the costal 

 cartilage of the fourth rib, but chiefly to blend with the sternalis. 

 As though to correct the oblique action that it otherwise would have 

 had, there was an additional sternalis on the right side, arising from 

 the middle fibres of the sterno-mastoid tendon to blend partly with 

 the muscular fibres of the subclavius tendon, but also terminating 

 in a long tendon of its own that had an insertion into the costal 

 cartilage of the fifth rib. This accessory sternalis, in its widest part, 

 was a half inch in width. Some fibres of the pectoralis also sent a 

 small tendon to join that of the subclavius. 



The thorax was unusually long and cylindrical, and contracted 

 below the cartilage of the fifth rib, as though constricted by a 

 bandage. Traction in the freshly dissected parts produced but little 

 effect upon the sterno-mastoid, notwithstanding the fact that the 

 sternal portion was distinct from the clavicular portion for an un- 

 usually long distance. Traction upward, however, produced a very 

 distinct tightening of the abdominal sheath and constriction of the 

 lower part of the thorax. The muscle here certainly was a " Span- 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



ner der Bauchaponeurose."* The recti muscles were well developed, 

 but the pectorales poorly. 



The muscle has been believed to be one of inspiration, where 

 function able. In this case, their large size certainly indicated 

 function, and I cannot resist the belief that that function was not 

 one of inspiration and that the deformity of the chest had been due 

 to their action. 



As was to be expected, there were numerous anomalies in other 

 parts of the body. The circulation of the upper extremities showed 

 abnormalities throughout, so much so that it was difficult to homol- 

 ogize the arterial branches in axilla, arm and hand. Circumstances 

 did not permit the careful search for variations, but two striking 

 ones may be noticed. The tendon of the digastric muscles gave off 

 two anterior bellies, one normal in size and position, the other a 

 flattened, triangular belly, meeting its fellow in a median raphe, 

 and connected at its upper angle with the maxillary symphysis. 

 Another subject, dissected at the same time, had a very similar 

 anomaly, consisting of two fleshy bellies arising from the maxilla 

 and passing down half way to the hyoid bone, there uniting in a 

 short raphe, then diverging to be inserted by a tendon into the 

 tendon of the digastric ; in both subjects the genio-hyoid was nor- 

 mal. Another anomaly in the first-mentioned subject consisted 

 of a double insertion, by two equal tendons, of the extensor indicis, 

 into the index and middle finger. 



An examination of this subject's lungs showed that death had 

 resulted from phthisis. This is the fourth subject in wluch I have 

 noticed numerous muscular and arterial anomalies coincident with 

 tuberculosis, and which incline me to the belief that persons 

 possessing such are more predisposed to this disease than those of 

 more normal structure ; or, in other words, that numerous anomalies 

 show impaired development and, lessened vitality. 



*Schultze, Anatom. Anzeiger. iii, 231, 1888. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



NOTE ON ELAGATIS BIPINNULATUS. 

 BY SETH E. MEEK AND CHARLES H. BOLLMAN. 



While Mr. Meek was in the employ of the New York State Fish 

 Commission, during the summer of 1886, it was his privilege to ex- 

 amine two specimens of Elagatis taken off Loug Island. So far as 

 we know, this is the first positive record of the species on the United 

 States coast. 1 



Dr. Jordan visited the Key West and Havana markets during 

 December, 1883, and January, 1884, and in neither of them found 

 any specimens of Elagatis. Our specimens agree very well with 

 Prof. Poey's description of Seriola pinnulatus, and there seems to be 

 no doubt that the West Indian E. bipinnulatus is identical with the 

 East Indian species E. bipinnulatus, as Liitken has already indicated. 



The following is the synonymy of Elagatis, with that of its single 

 known species. 



ELAGATIS. 



1835. — Elagatis Bennett, Whaling Voyage, 11,283 (bipinnulatus). 



1854. — Seriolichthys Bleeker, Naturk. Tidschr. Ned. Ind., 1, 

 195 (bipinnulatus). 



1860. — Decaptus Poey, Memorias, 11, 374 (pinnulatus, nonem 

 nudum). 



Type Seriola bipinnulata Quoy and Gaimard. 



Elagatis bipinnulatus Bennett. 



The Yellow-tail. 



Seriola bipinnulata Quoy and Gaimard, Voy. Uran., Zool., 1, 

 363, pi. 61, fig. 3, 1824; Cuvier, Regne Anim. 111. Poiss. 130, 18; 

 Jenyns, Zool. Beagle, Fish. 72, 1841 (Keeling Islands). 



Elagatis bipinnulatus Bennett, Whaling Voy., 11, 283, 1835; 

 Poey, Enumeratio Pise. Cubensium, 83, 1875. 



Seriolichthys bipinnulatus Bleeker, Nat. Tidschr. Ned. Ind. 4, 

 196, 1854; Bleeker, Nat. Tidschr. Ned. Ind., 392, 1858; Giinther, 

 Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., 468, 1860. 



Seriola pinnulata Poey, Memorias, 11, 233, 1860 (Havana). 



Decaptus pinnulatus Poey, Memorias, 11, 374, 1860. 



1 Stearns' note in regard to the occurrence of this species at Key West 

 apparently has reference to Aligoplites samus, and not to the Elagatis (Nat. Hist. 

 Aquat. Animals. 332, 1884). 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Elagatis pinnulatus Poey, Synopsis, 13, 273, 1868; Goode and 

 Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 130, 1879 (West Florida?); Goode 

 and Bean, U. S. Fish Com., 43, 1881 ; Goode and Bean, Proe. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 237, 1882; Bean, Lond. Fish Exhib., 54, 1883; Jordan 

 and Gilbert, Synopsis Fish N. A., 446, 1883; Jordan, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 149, 1884; Jordan, Cat. Fish N. A., 72, 1885; Jordan, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 576, 1886. 



E. bipinnulatus. 



Head o\ in body (5 including caudal); depth, 3?. 



D. VI, 1-27-2 ; A. II, 1-17-2. Scales in lateral line about 100. 



Body oblong, elliptical, the back little elevated. 



Head rather long and pointed ; mouth terminal ; lower jaw slightly 

 projecting beyond upper. 



Maxillary triangular, its greatest width, 2\ in its length ; supple- 

 mentary bone long and linear, all except its caudo-ventral margin 

 slipping under preorbital. 



Preorbital and preopercle entire. 



Teeth in both jaws small, conical, equal, narrowing posteriorly ; 

 symphysis bare ; villiform teeth on palatines, vomer and tongue, 

 those on vomer in a diamond-shaped patch with a caudal diverticu- 

 lum. 



Eye 5? in head (41 in smaller) end of maxillary reaching about 

 three-fourths distance from nostril to vertical from cephalic margin 

 of orbit. 



Snout 2f in head. Length of mandible equal to distance from 

 tip of snout to center of .pupil; distance from tip of upper jaw to 

 posterior end of maxillary, 31 in head. Gill rakers about all below 

 angle, cephalic ones gradually shorter, longest about f diameter of 

 eye. 



A slight occipital keel. 



Lateral line Wf»vy, origin at dorsal edge of opercle, the cephalic 

 end of lateral line runs slightly dorsal to opposite origin of spinous 

 dorsal ; here it turns slightly ventral until opposite origin of anal 

 and then median to caudal fin. 



Origin of soft dorsal slightly nearer tip of snout than base of 

 caudal. Spinous dorsal low, the third and fourth spines longest, 

 about 5 j in length of head. Soft dorsal and anal similar, slightly 

 falcate; longest dorsal rays 2 J in length of head, the thirteenth 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



smallest, 62 in head; second ray of dorsal finlet is about twice the 

 length of first, its length 4 in head. 



Largest anal rays 3* in head ; about as long as second ray of 

 finlet ; the two small anal spines remote from the rest. Pectorals 

 short and broad, nearly 2 in head. Ventrals short, 2 in head, fold- 

 ing in a ventral depression. Caudal fin widely forked, lobes attenu- 

 ated and slightly larger than head. 



Body covered with small cycloid scales. Head not scaly, except 

 portions of cheeks and part of its dorso-caudal margin. Scales on 

 cheeks in about six series. Scales in regions of nape smaller than 

 those on upper portions of body, long and narrow. 



Color dark blue or lead above, becoming pale yellowish below. 

 Two conspicuous blue bands on sides of body ; the dorsal one begins 

 at the orbit and passes caudal to dorsal margin of caudal peduncle, 

 its width about equal to diameter of eyes ; the second begins at snout, 

 passes along ventral margin of orbit across opercle and a little 

 dorsal of base of pectoral fin to caudal. 



Caudal yellowish, with a darker margin ; ventrals, pectorals and 

 caudal yellowish, with more or less blue. 



The only difference we have been able to find between our speci- 

 mens and the description of E. biplnnulatus is, that in the latter the 

 preopercle is said to be crenulate, while in ours the preopercle is 

 entire ; hut as this is a character subject to variation at different 

 ages, we strongly adhere to Dr. Liitken's opinion that biplnnulatus 

 and pinnulatus are identical. Our description is taken from two 

 specimens, the larger of which was caught in Gravesend Bay, 

 September 21, 1885, and is in the Museum of the Indiana Univer- 

 sity ; the smaller (nine inches in length) was caught off Coney 

 Island, August 6, 1887 ; it is in the possession of the well-known 

 fish dealer, Mr. E. G. Blackford, of New York City. 




1889.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 45 



March 5. 

 The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



Note on Gonyleptes and Solpuga. — Dr. Leidy exhibited a curious 

 spider, presented by Dr. W. H. Jones, who obtained it in Rimac 

 valley, in the vicinity of Lima, Peru. It is a large form related to 

 our Daddy-long-legs, Phalangium, and is the Gonyleptes curvipes. 

 The species was originally described from Chili. It is represented 

 in Fig. 176, in Kingsley's Standard Natural History. 



Another specimen exhibited, was presentee! by Mr. Joseph Will- 

 cox, who collected it in Florida. It is a Solpuga, differing from 

 ordinary spiders in having both thorax and abdomen segmented. 

 The species, according to Putnam (Proc. Davenport Acad. 1883, 

 264), was previously collected in the same locality, It agrees in 

 size, 20 mm., and other characters, with the Galeodes cubce, of Cuba, 

 described by Lucas (Hist, de l'Isle de Cuba, Atlas, Tab. v., fig. 6.) 



Mazapilite, a. new mineral species. — Prof. George A. Kodnig re- 

 called to the Academy, that he had given a preliminary notice on 

 July 3, 1888, of a new mineral of which he had not yet made a 

 quantitative analysis or measured the angles accurately, as he was 

 then on the point of leaving for his summer vacation. The mineral 

 was then described as an arsenite of iron and calcium. The full ex- 

 amination showed this description to be erroneous. When first 

 examined the mineral yielded in the closed tube a sublimate of 

 As 2 O 3 and water. This sublimate was not obtained in repeated 

 later trials. The mineral is an arseniate of calcium and iron. 



Mazapilite occurs only in well-developed crystals, which are im- 

 bedded in white calcite and aragonite. The crystals vary in length 

 from ? to & inch, and rV to to inch in breadth. They are all de- 

 veloped at both ends and fall easily from the matrix, in which they 

 leave an ochre-yellow impression. Minute warty particles of a gray- 

 ish color were observed in some of these cavities. 



The crystals are black, deep brown-red on the fracture. They are 

 slightly translucent at the thinnest edges with blood-red color. 



The streak is ochre-yellow. The luster is submetallic. 



The crystals possess the habitus of the combination represented in 

 the cut, without exception. 



The four faces designated( ^ P) are found to lie in one zone and 

 therefore the symmetry of the combination is orthorhombic. 



The following angles were measured : 



P: P = 115° 10' (over oo P.) 



P : P == 100° 35' (over brachi-axis.) 




46 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



oo P : £~P = 44° 56' (over the pole.) 

 oo P : Poo = 60° 10' = 119° 50' 

 The angle of 115° 10' is uncertain within 5'. 

 One of the faces of P measured, was very small and 

 gave a dim reflection. All the other faces reflect 

 satisfactorily, even excellently. On one very small 

 crystal, the faces of a brachidome were observed, but 

 could not be measured. No cleavage has been observed 

 and therefore the longest dimension was chosen for 

 the main axis, in the position represented by the cut. 

 The parameters of the fundamental pyramid are : 

 a: b: c = 0. 73104: 1: 1.1640. 

 The optical properties could not be studied by rea- 

 son of the failure to obtain a thin section which 

 would transmit any light ; the color is so intense. 



The specific gravity was determined with 1.2475 

 grs. of pure crystals and found = 3. 582 B. B. 



When the powder is heated in closed tube it yields 

 much water without change of the ochre-yellow color. 

 Only at a red heat the color changes to a light brick- 

 red. In the oxydizing flame the mineral fuses to a 

 ,black scoria which is magnetic. On charcoal a light 

 volatile sublimate is produced and the garlic odor 

 of arsenic is developed. 



With borax only the reaction for iron is obtained. The mineral 

 dissolves easily in hot concentrated hydrochloric acid without effer- 

 vescence. The solution does not precipitate gold chloride (absent 

 Fe and As 2 3 .) 



In the course of the analysis, care was taken to obtain complete 

 precipitation of arsenic. Hydrogen sulphide was passed through 

 the solution three times, allowing the solution to stand 24 hours 



Only upon 



saturating 



the fourth time, no 



after each separation. 



precipitation resulted. As 2 S 3 -(- S was weighed ; a portion oxydized 

 and precipitated by Mg CI 2 . After filtering (N H 4 ), 2 was removed 

 by heat, H CI added and H 2 S passed through the solution. A 

 small quantity of Sb 2 S 3 was obtained. After igniting the ferric 

 hydrate, it was redissolved and by molybdic solution a slight yellow 

 precipitate produced. This proved to be due to phosphorus. 

 Water was determined in a separate portion. 

 0. 5520 of the substance gave. 

 0. 3430 As 2 S 3 + S. 



0. 3125 As 2 S 3 + S gave 0.2960 Mg 2 As 2 07. 

 0. 1685 Fe 2 O 3 . 

 0. 0820 Ca O 



0. 3050 substance lost by successive heating. 

 0. 0020 at 130° C. 

 . 0130 at 279° C. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



0. 0159 up to 360° C. 

 . 0240 up to beginning red-heat ; the color of the powder remains 



unchanged up to this point. 

 . 0290 the powder becomes partly red. 

 0. 0300 at full reddieat. The powder is light brick-red. 

 These numbers furnished : 

 As 2 O 5 = 43.60 

 S6 2 O 5 = 0.25 

 P 2 5 = 0.14 

 Fe 2 O 3 = 30.53 

 Ca O =14.82 

 H 2 O = 9.83 



99.17 

 From this follows the ratio : 



As 2 O 5 : Fe 2 O 3 : Ca : H 2 O. 

 I: 1.09: 1.49: 3.09. 



or very nearly 



in 



Ca 3 Fe 2 [As 4 J 4 [Fe O. H O] 2 -- 5 H 2 O. 



In view of the fact that the color remains unchanged up to red 

 heat and then turns brick-red, the assumption of one molecule of 

 ferric hydrate is well justified as is likewise the consideration of the 

 remaining water as not being constitutional. 



If we compare this composition with that of Arseniosiderite 

 (Rammelsberg, Mineralchemie, Aufl. II, p. 347), we find a close 

 affinity between the two substances. It may hereafter be shown 

 that the composition of the doubtful mineral from Romaneche is 

 identical with the Mazapilite, but for the present it seems proper to 

 distinguish the latter as a perfectly well-established species. 



The mineral Mazapilite occurs at the Mine Jesus Maria, District 

 of Mazapil, Zacatecas, Mex. It was brought thence by Dr. A. E. 

 Foote, to whose kindness the author is indebted for the material. 



March 12. 



The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Boring Sponge, Cliona ", by Jos. Leidy, 

 M. D., was presented for publication. 



The death of Isaiah V. Williamson, a member, was announced. 




48 proceedings of the academy of [1889. 



March 19. 



Dr. Charles Schaeffer in the chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Color variations in Ophnira Panamensis and Ophnira teres," 

 by J. E. Ives. 



" On Pratincola Salax Verr, and Allied Species," by Witnier 

 Stone. 



" On new and little-known American Mollusca. No. I.," by H. H. 

 Pilsbry. 



A meeting of the Biological and Microscopical Section, Mr. 

 Harold Wingate, Director, was held conjointly with the meeting 

 of the Academy. 



Tilmadoche compacta, Wing., n. sp. — Mr. Harold Wingate 

 reported that this Myxomycete has been found during several sum- 

 mers in Fairmount Park, Phila., also at Wawa, Pa., and in Ohio, 

 (Morgan). The speaker not being able to identify it with the descrip- 

 tion of any Tilmadoche as found in the literature, sent it to many 

 correspondents under the mss. name as above. Later, a note to the 

 description of Tilmadoche columbina B., in Dr. Rostafinski's Mono- 

 graph, was found to contain points which caused the writer to think 

 that the plant was not a new species, and as sufficient material had 

 been collected by himself and Dr. Geo. A. Rex, it was sent to Mr. 

 J. B. Ellis, and issued by him in vol. XXI, of North Amer. Fungi 

 (No. 2087), under the name of Tilmadoche columbina B. 



In Grevillea (Vol. 17), No. 81, fol. 18, a note of Mr. G. Massee's 

 says that the type specimen of T. columbina in the Berkeley 

 Herbarium is very different from the plant in N. A. F., so we now 

 return to our original name. The following is a description of the 

 species : 



Tilmadoche compacta Wing., n.sp. — Sporangia brownish-white, 

 flattened globose, occasionally globose, nodding, borne on subulate, 

 yellowish-white stipes, which have a brown or blackish base, and 

 reach to a height of three or four times the width of the sporangium ; 

 sporangium-wall studded with numerous, snow-white lime-granules, 

 the remainder of the wall bronze-color, with a metallic luster, split- 

 ting on maturity in a floriform manner, with from six to twelve 

 lacinia? ; capillitium, after removal of the spores, white, with a faint 

 bluish tint under reflected light owing to the translucence or irides- 

 cence of its delicate threads ; the latter originate from a central 

 lime-granule which is generally quite large, branch several times as 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



they proceed towards the surface of the sporangium, and join into 

 a dense, compact net, the ends of the last branches attached to the 

 inner side of the sporangium-wall ; lime-granules in- the capillitium, 

 very few, small, white, fusiform ; spores bright brown-violet (brown 

 in the mass), very delicately warted, 7-9 mk. 



Fairmoiuit Park, Phila., Pa. and Ohio (Morgan.) 



This Tilmadoche has marked characteristics. The stipe for a short 

 distance from the base is very dark, but suddenly changes to a yel- 

 lowish-white. When the sporangium bursts, the top part of the wall 

 generally pulls out the capillitium immediately over the central lime- 

 granule, so that the latter is exposed to view. In some cases, when 

 quite large, the granule falls out leaving a circular empty space in 

 the center of the sporangium, without disturbing the outline of the 

 capillitium. The capillitium is very flimsy, and its faint bluish tint 

 in the mass quite marked under a parabolic reflector. The metallic 

 luster of the sporangium-wall is constant in the specimens collected 

 during different summers. 



March 26. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



It was resolved that evenings as follow be assigned to the sec- 

 tions named for the purpose of holding meetings in conjunction with 

 the Academy: — biological and Microscopical Section, the third 

 Tuesday of each month ; the Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 the first Tuesday of each alternate month beginning with April ; the 

 Conchological Section, the second Tuesday of each alternate month 

 beginning with May ; the Botanical Section, the first Tuesday of 

 each alternate month beginning with May. 



Mr. Louis Schneider was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



ON TWO MINERALS FROM DELAWARE COUNTY, PA. 

 BY F. A. GENTH. 

 Gahnite. 



In the summer of 1887, Mr. John H. Smedley observed in his 

 feldspar quarry, in Delaware County, some dark green crystals, 

 partly imbedded in muscovite and associated with quartz, albite and 

 garnet. 



I am indebted to Col. Joseph Willcox and Dr. John M. Cardeza 

 for a few of these which furnished the material for an analysis prov- 

 ing them to be Gahnite. 



The crystals, from 2 to 15 mm in size, are mostly very imperfect; 

 only the smallest show smooth faces of the octahedron in combina- 

 tion with the dodecahedron ; generally their faces are rough and 

 frequently show impressions from the associated minerals. The 

 larger crystals are much distorted, the dodecahedral planes some- 

 times deeply striated, producing, with the octahedral, rounded, rag- 

 ged faces upon which, occasionally, minute octahedral planes are 

 visible. In some of the crystals an indistinct octahedral cleavage and 

 frequent interlaminations with scales of muscovite may be observed. 

 A few have been partly altered into muscovite and are coated with 

 a thin fibrous crust of this mineral, in a similar manner as the gah- 

 nite from the Deake Mine, Mitchell County, N. C, described by me 

 in Am. Phil. Soc. Proc, August 18, 1882. 



Their color is blackish-green, in thin splinters translucent with 

 bright dark-green color. 



The crystals are so much mixed with muscovite that only with 

 great difficulty and the aid of a strong lens, a small quantity of pure 

 material could be obtained for analysis. 



Spec. Grav. = 4.587. 



The analysis gave : 



AP O 3 = 57.22 

 Zn O = 38.14 

 Cu O = 0.06 

 Mn O = 0.70 

 Fe O = 3.55 

 Mg O = 0.26 



99.93 






1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



Scarcity of material prevented a direct determination of the fer- 

 rous oxide which was calculated from the amount of ferric oxide 

 found. 



Columbite. 



At Mineral Hill, Middletown Twp., Delaware County, Pa., as a 

 great rarity, a few specimens of columbite have been found ; amongst 

 which were two crystals, the larger and better in the W. S. 

 Vaux Collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, the smaller 

 in the cabinet of Mr. Clarence S. Bement, who kindly loaned it for 

 a crystallographic determination, which was made at the suggestion of 

 Dr. Edward S. Dana by Mr. H. S. Washington, who very kindly 

 made the following measurements of such angles as were worth re- 

 cording, and prepared the accompanying drawing. For comparison, 

 Dr. Dana gave the angles of the Standish columbite : 



Mineral Hill. 



100 A HO = 40° 1' 



010 A 130 = 21° 49' 



100 A 233 = 63° 41' 



233 A 133 = 12° 4' 



001 A 133 = 42° 57' 



Besides these two crystals, two or three 



crystalline masses were found, one of which 



has been presented to me for investigation 



by Mr. Thos. S. Ash. 



It weighed a little over 30 grams, was 



28 mm long, by 20 and 18 mm , tapering at both 



ends. A small quantity of black mica was 

 associated with it. The exterior had a brownish-black to a reddish- 

 brown color, a subconchoidal fracture and a submetallic luster, in- 

 clining to resinous ; the interior of the lump was more compact, 

 with an uneven fracture, iron-black color and very little luster. 



With great care the blackest and less lustrous, which formed the 

 greater portion of the specimen, was selected for analysis. Fracture 

 uneven, no sign of cleavage. The spec. grav. was found in two dif- 

 ferent portions=5.262 and 5.259, which is, I believe, the low T est 

 specific gravity ever observed for any columbite. 



The analyses were made in the usual way ; an approximate sepa- 

 ration of Ta 2 O 5 from Cb 2 O 5 was obtained by Marignac's method. 



Standish. 

 39° 38|' 

 21° 55' 



61° 52' 

 Not very 13° 10' 

 good. 43° 48' 




52 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



The results were as follows : 



100.22 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE HISTORIES OF PLANTS. No. IV. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



On Secund Inflorescence. So far as the author of this paper knows, 

 no explanation has been given as to why flowers are often secund 

 on the rachis. Sachs goes into the subject somewhat (Text Book of 

 Botany, English Ed., p. 189), but evidently without being clear in 

 his own mind as to the proper method of accounting for it, under 

 the prevalent conceptions of phyllotaxis. 



To those who have been able to examine many species of the 

 thick-stemmed Begonias, to which this author refers as having leaves 

 from one side of the stems only, it must be evident that they are but 

 herbaceous species that have learned to become erect. What are 

 thickened, creeping rhizomes in some species, have become ascending 

 upright stems in these shrubby ones ; and they have carried along 

 in this evolutionary movement the unilateral character of producing 

 the foliage, which must of necessity prevail in a procumbent stem. 



This change of the horizontal to the erect position is apparent in 

 many plants, especially in ferns. Tree ferns have no rhizomes, 

 because the trunk of the tree fern is itself but an erect rhizome. In 

 draining old swamps, the author has taken out old rhizomes of O-s- 

 munda regalis, many feet in length, and three inches in diameter, in 

 no way differing from the trunks of the smaller arborescent ferns 

 except a vertical tendency in the remains of the stipes. There are 

 instances on record where this fern has become wholly arborescent, — 

 that is to say, instead of producing the usual creeping rhizoma, the 

 rhizome has become erect. But whether that rhizome, when erect, 

 continued the lateral arrangement of its former position, as in the 

 allied case of Begonia, it did not seem to occur to the observer to note. 

 A^ain, there is no difference in character between the thick under- 

 ground rhizome of Yucca filamentosa (which never has an erect stem) 

 from the erect stems of its allies ( Y. aloifolia, Y. gloriosa, &c.) which 

 have no creeeping rhizomas. That the latter are but herbaceous 

 species that have learned to elevate their rhizomes while assuming 

 other characters, will be acknowledged by any reflective mind. That 

 this is true of other stoloniferous or rhizomatous plants horticulturists 

 have experience in the strawberry. Leaves, and an occasional root, 

 will sometimes appear from the apex of the common peduncle which 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



some accident has bent in early stages to the ground. But a per- 

 fect illustration is seen in a variety known as the "Brush straw- 

 berry," which never makes any stolons or, as they are technically 

 called, " runners," because, as is readily seen, what should have 

 been runners in the usual varieties have become erect, and, with 

 erection, have changed their character to flower scapes. The leaves 

 are quite abundant among the flowers, and are on one side, as 

 they are on the thick stemmed Begonias, and as they would be on 

 a strawberry runner trailing on the ground. 



It is evident that under the conception of a continuous spiral ar- 

 rangement, the leaves, from a stem arranged for horizontal growth, 

 could not all spring from one side as in the Begonias and other 

 plants referred to ; nor is there any method conceivable except that 

 each leaf or bud in succession should be made to twist in contrary 

 directions. AVe can see that this is so in the thick flowering shoots 

 of the Yucca filamentosa, where the suppressed leaves, reduced to 

 mere bracts, show the alternate twisting from right to left, 

 and from left to right. (Fig. 1.) Examining the flowers 

 on the branchlets of the panicle, we see that they also al- 

 ternately twist in opposite directions, and that they are 

 secund. In fact, the flower scape of this Yucca is but a 

 rhizoma, forced to assume an erect position, changed in 

 many of its characters by that unknown law which comes 

 in a highly accelerated growth, and results in changing 

 Fig. i. leaves and stem into inflorescence, although not wholly 

 affecting the unilateral character that prevailed in its horizontal 

 condition. 



If we examine any cases of secund inflorescence, we may in most 

 instances see that this condition arises from the alternate twisting 

 of the pedicels in contrary directions. 



So far as the author can now recall, the secund inflorescence, aside 

 from that classed as scorpioid, does not exist among annuals, and we 

 may assume that it is rare in that class. In perennial herbaceous 

 plants it is common. Conceding that, as a general law, plants in 

 time come to adapt themselves to the best conditions of existence, 

 and that as a general law it would be better for leaves and flowers 

 to be scattered equally around an axis than to be crowded on one 

 side, the conclusion is rationally reached that a secund inflorescence 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



is a comparatively recent stage in evolution, wherein a geotropic 

 stem has assumed an erect condition. 



Again, the author does not know that it has been so recorded by 

 phyto-biological authors, but growth in plants evidently follows the 

 law that prevails in most forms of motion, and is rhythmic and not 

 continuous. Rest and activity follow in rapid succession as the 

 parts of a plant grow. It is during these various stages of rest and 

 activity that the successive morphological changes take place. It 

 is probable that during these resting spells, the changes in the tor- 

 sional direction occur. It has been shown by the author of this 

 paper (see Proceedings of Academy, 1886, page 291) that after the 

 resting spell that follows the expansion of some malvaceous flowers, 

 they take the opposite direction in twisting as they close. The 

 plants there noted are annuals, and the inflorescence is not secund. 

 The alternate twists are in contrary directions, during successive 

 resting periods in the same flower. 



Noting that in an allied order a member, Mahernia verticilfata 

 had secund flowers, it was thought probable the expanding 

 corolla itself, might show alternate twisting in contrary direc- 

 tions. This proved to be the case, the lower flower of the two 

 twisting against the sun, and the upper with the sun. Fig. 2 rep- 

 resents a front-face outline, showing the opposite direction 

 ^""^ of the twists in the two flowers of the common) peduncle. 

 J Notwithstanding the flower does not expand to the extent 

 the malvaceous plants referred to above do, and the con- 

 sequent difficulty the separate petals must have in changing 



the over-lap in fading, yet numbers succeed, showing that 

 Fig 2 



here also the return spiral twist is in a different direction 



and is not a mere coiling up of the same expanded spiral chain. 



Distinct spiral directions in the growth of branches on the same 

 plant have been occasionally noted (see Goodale Bot. Text Book, 

 p. 407). The object of this paper is to show that it is very common 

 in the inflorescence, and that it is indeed the cause of that section 

 known as secund. The author would show that the inverse of Dr. 

 Gray's definition of a stolon may be accepted. He says, — " A 

 stolon is a prostrate or reclined branch which strikes root at the tip, 

 and then develops an ascending growth, which becomes an inde- 

 pendent plant." We now see that the stolon itself, with its unilateral 

 arrangements, may again ascend and become a branch. 




56 PROCEED[NGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



The author confines himself in this paper to those forms of scor- 

 pioidal inflorescence, that are not usually considered in connection 

 with the subject, and which evidently occur by the twisting of the 

 spiral growths. Those forms of unilateral inflorescence, more prop- 

 erly regarded as scorpioidal, and treated at some length in Gray's 

 Botanical Text Book, Sixth Edition, page 163, would have to be 

 examined from a different stand-point. 



Note on Pinus pungens and its allies. Until comparatively few 

 years ago, the Table Mountain Pine, Pinus pungens Mx., was not 

 found north of the Potomac. Professor Porter found old cones at 

 Huntingdon, Pennsylvania, and an aged local botanist at Bethlehem 

 in the same State, told the author of this, that he had found old 

 cones there. Since then the author found living trees in abundance 

 at Port Clinton, subsequently in Dauphin County, near Harrisburg, 

 and in January of this year near Lewistown in Mifflin County. It 

 is safe to say it is found in the whole Allegheny range through the 

 breadth of the State. 



It is remarkable that a tree so widely scattered in this region 

 should have been so long overlooked, and that the only person re- 

 ported as having collected it in a living condition, should be the 

 writer. 



An interesting fact is that in all the Pennsylvania localities it 

 seems to be found only in the upper Silurian formation 



In the recently discovered Lewistown locality the rock is 

 fossiliferous, being full of the casts of Brachiapodic shells. It is just 

 possible it may reach the lower Devonian formation. 



Another interesting point is that at Lewistown all five of the 

 Pennsylvania species of the true Pines, are growing together : Pinus 

 Strobus, P. mitis, P. inops, P. rigida, and P. pungens. P. Strobus 

 and P. mitis make fine trees ; some of the latter taller, and four 

 feet in circumference. 



One of the distinctive features of the species of Pine, and which 

 cannot often be described among their specific character, is their 

 habit of growth. By this they can be distinguished at a distance. 

 Pinus pungens in this respect is seen to be more closely related to 

 Pinus rigida, than to any of its neighbors. The side branches often 

 branch and re-branch in Pinus rigida, taking on in this respect the 

 character of a deciduous tree. Besides this the spurs, which in all 

 pines are at the base of the fascicles of leaves growing towards the 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



circumference of the branch year after year as the branch increases 

 in thickness, but rarely getting far enough forward to form " second- 

 ary" leaves ; in Pinus rig Ida manage in time to get beyond the bark of 

 the main branches, again become foliaceous, and produce a dense an- 

 nual crop of "needles" or secondary leaves along the whole surface. 

 This has not been noted on Pinus pungens, though it has the char- 

 acter of making vigorous and much ramifying side branches more 

 strongly developed. In many cases, the side-branches compete in 

 vigor with the leaders, till the tree loses the specific character of 

 most pines in having a distinctive trunk or leading stem, after it 

 has reached no great height from the ground. 



Another feature in which it agrees with Pinus rigida, is in the 

 habit of bearing flowers, both male and female, on comparatively 

 young plants. In the general characteristics of branches, foliage, 

 and cones, it is easy to see the general relationship to P. rigida. 



In one respect, however, there is a remarkable difference. Pinus 

 rigida, is, in its cones, among the most variable of Pines. In his 

 paper on " Variations in nature" read by the author of this before 

 the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at its 

 Montreal meeting, a series of cones was used in illustration showing 

 a complete line between P. rigida, P. serotina, and P. Tceda, the 

 changes being so gradual that, so far as the cones evidenced, no 

 line could be drawn between the three, distinct enough as they are 

 when the intermediates become " missing links." In the hills about 

 Lewistown, some trees of P. rigida, were noted with cones little 

 larger than good-sized Filberts. Pinus inops also varies very much 

 in the form of its cones. But Pinus pungens, owing its parentage, 

 as it probably does, to P. rigida, is remarkably constant in the size 

 and form of its cones. Of the hundreds of trees that I have seen in 

 the whole Allegheny range, from North Carolina to the Schuylkill 

 river, the cones seem uniform in size and other characters. 



In the unexpected appearance of a plant with which we are 

 familiar in another region, we not onlv look for similarity in the 

 geological features, but for companion plants as well. In the author's 

 memory, Polypodium incanum is associated growing on rocks and 

 trees with Pinus pungens in Virginia. It was natural to look for it 

 here, but only its ally, Polypodium vulgare, was to be seen. It is 

 possibly a low-land fern in its origin, pressing up iuto these higher 

 regions long after the exposure of the Silurian rock in these upper 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



elevations. At this dreary winter (January) season, the following 

 few companions could only be noted : 



Quercus coccinea, Q. Prinus monticola, Q. tinctoria, Juglans nigra, 

 Carya tomentosa, Castanea Americana, Betula lenta, Acer rubrum 

 Ostrya Virginica, Rubus Canadensis, Rosa humilis, Juniperus Vir- 

 giniana, Corydalis flavula, a wholly spineless Crataegus making a 

 dense bush six feet high, Danthonia spicata, Pyenanthemum muticum, 

 and numerous introduced plants that we expect to find everywhere. 



On Corydalis flavula D. C. In January, in Pine woods near 

 Lewistown, I noted some Corydalis, growing abundantly under 

 Pinus rigida, and Pinus Strobus, plants of which I brought home 

 potted, and kept in a cool greenhouse. By the end of Feb- 

 ruary they were in flower, and proved to be Corydalis flavula, D. C.,. 

 Fumaria flavula, Rafinesque. Being able to watch their growth 

 from day to day, I found a few points seemingly worth recording. 



It is customary to say of this and allied species that the " racemes 

 are opposite the leaves, or supra-axillary" (Torrey & Gray, p. 691) 

 as describing that which is apparent. This is fair, but it is decep- 

 tive as to the actual fact. A raceme is but a branch arrested in its 

 full axial development, and it is doubtful whether an axial 

 growth, no matter what form of inflorescence it may assume, ever 

 appears except from the axis of a leaf, or from the axis of the point 

 where a leaf ought to be. To my mind it is a question as to whether 

 every flower — each flower being regarded, morphologically, as an 

 arrested branch — must not of necessity be terminal as regards its 

 immediate axis ; and whatever lateral direction it may subsequently 

 assume, comes from a renewal of growth near or within the same 

 axial line, the more or less horizontal positions assumed resulting by 

 a pushing over, when the new axial growth is resumed. 



That this is the case in this Corydalis is evident. The 1 raceme i& 

 at first a terminal spike. At its base is a leaf with an axillary bud. 

 This bud, as it grow T s to a shoot, displaces the spike, assumes the 

 central position, and the spike then becomes a " supra-axillary ra- 

 ceme," with the newly made axis, between it and the leaf to which 

 it is axillary. 



1 Since this paper was prepared for publication the author notes that the raceme,, 

 so called, continues its growth to a number of nodes after the last flower has bten 

 produced, though the leaves at each node are still bractiform. Only for the fact 

 that the leaves on the axis are reduced to mere bracts, it would be nearly as proper 

 to say that the flowers are "axillary and solitary along the branches,'' as to say 

 they are racemose. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



An interesting fact is that at this node, where the terminal growth 

 becomes a supra-axillary raceme, the petiole has assumed a sheath- 

 ins base, and the two lower minute leaf blades are attached to the 

 sheath in such a way that in ordinary cases we should be likely to 

 conclude they were stipules. But we can see that the petiole of the 

 normal leaf has been arrested in its growth, without affecting the 

 laminal portion. It is as if an inch and a half of the normal petiole 

 had been cut out, and a petiolar leaf rendered sessile. With this 

 arrest of growth has come a tendency to dilation, resulting in the 

 sheathing base to the leaf stalk. The observation is important as 

 furnishing the key to other changes as the inflorescence advances 

 in growth. Along the raceme are bracts, from the axils of which 

 the flower springs. These are broad and oval, and in neither form 

 nor texture like the laminal portions of the ordinary leaf. They are 

 evidently formed by a dilation of the petiole, in the line of, and to 

 a greater extent, than in the sheathing condition already noticed. 



The fertilization of the flower is of peculiar interest. Mr. Dar- 

 win treats of Corydalis under the head of self-sterile plants (Cross- 

 and Self-fertilization, chap. 14), though noting there that some 

 species are occasionally self-fertile. This species as growing in my 

 greenhouse, is fully self-fertile — not one flower failing to produce 

 perfect pods and seeds. It is very interesting to observe the de- 

 veloping seed vessel, as it pushes through the maturing petal, car- 

 rying on its up-curved stigma a mass of white pollen, looking like a 

 snow cap on the top of a green mountain. Examining the unopened 

 flowers, we find that the pollen matures, and is actually placed on the 

 stigma, long before the corolla has completed its growth — long before 

 it is in any condition to receive the visits of insects. It is in fact as 

 truly fertilized in the bud, as that class of apetalous conditions 

 known as cleistogene flowers can possibly be. This can be readily 

 understood by observing that in a raceme of ten flowers, the lower 

 one only with the pistil having emerged from the closed flower, all 

 but the two upper had pollen on their stigmas. It is a case in which 

 the flowers are arranged for self-fertilization, with perfect productive 

 results. 



Dimorphism in Polygona. " Flores hermaphrodite," is said of 

 the whole section of Polygonacece in which Polygonum is included ; 

 but though hermaphrodite they be, the hermaphrodism, so far as an 

 examination of species growing near the author is concerned, is of a 

 character hitherto unsuspected by botanists. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



While preparing the chapter on Polygonum arifolium for Native 

 Flowers and Ferns of the United States (1879, Vol. II, p. 154, 

 series I), a double system of flowers was noted — one smallei\than 

 the other — but as both of them seemed to have the sexual organs 

 perfect with anthers abundantly polliniferous, no reference was 

 made to the fact, but the whole matter was laid over for future in- 

 vestigation. 



Attention was drawn to the subject a few years subsequently, by 

 noting numbers of nectar-loving Vespce, as well as the common 

 honey-bee vigorously at work on the smaller flowers of Polygonum 

 Virginianum. These smaller flowers are pure white, and, after 

 mid-day, expand sufficiently to expose the whole sexual organs to 

 easy ocular examination. There are two series of stamens. The 

 exterior lean outwardly, the inner bend inwards and the abundantly 

 polliniferous anthers are in actual contact with the apparently 

 perfect stigmas. The whole gynoecial system seems perfect. Those 

 who speculate in these matters would surely say the flowers were 

 specialized for self-fertilization. At the base of the inner series of 

 stamens are glands which copiously exude nectar, attracting the 

 insects above noted. It was evident, however, that none of these 

 small, though apparently perfect, flowers, ever produced seeds. On 

 the same plant are other flowers, larger, and of a greenish purple 

 tint. From these flowers the styles with their hooked apices pro- 

 truding, extend considerably beyond the sepals. These flowers always 

 produce perfect seeds. Though the smaller flowers seem specialized 

 for self-fertilization, in view of the fact that they produce no seeds, 

 that they are abundantly nectariferous and polliniferous, and that 

 the larger flowers project the pistils beyond the closed sepals, appar- 

 ently out of reach of own-pollen, and yet are abundantly fertile, the 

 general conclusion that the whole arrangement is for cross-fertiliza- 

 tion would surely be pardonable. 



During the several years past in which continuous observations 

 were made, no insect has been noted visiting the fertile flowers. It 

 is safe to say they are not fertilized by insect agency. The nectar 

 in the infertile flowers doubtless serves some good purpose, but it 

 .certainly has no reference to cross-fertilization by insect agency. 



Setting aside as wholly out of the question the production of nec- 

 tar, and the visits of insects in connection with the fertilization of the 

 productive flowers, it still remained to be considered whether the 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



pollen, notwithstanding its sub-gelatinous character, might not be 

 carried by the wind. 



It was subsequently made clear that the pistils did not emerge 

 from the floral envelopes till after fertilization had been accomplished. 

 Indeed the seed had advanced considerably towards maturity before 

 the styles were projected. It was only by the increased growth of 

 the achenium following fertilization that the styles became exposed 

 at all. The flowers are fertilized in the bud ; there is no possibility 

 of cross-fertilization. It may be remarked here, that the word 

 " cross-fertilization" is used to express the pollination of a flower by 

 another on the same plant. The physiological speculations involv- 

 ing questions of benefit to the plant or to the race, require the cross 

 to be between different plants growing under separate conditions. 



It was but natural to examine other Polygoni, in the light of the 

 facts developed by P. Virginianum. The characters given were 

 found in all cases, and still more strongly marked. These were the 

 smaller, lighter colored, apparently perfect, flowers — expanding in 

 the afternoon, gland bearing and nectariferous ; abundantly polli- 

 niferous, but vet infertile. And there were the larger, colored, 

 always-closed, and yet perfect flowers, resulting, without an apparent 

 exception, in perfect seeds. In many cases the styles are bent in the 

 bud, and the stigmas and anthers are brought together so as to 

 make self-fertilization absolutely certain. Many are in fact truly 

 cleistogamous. Occasionally with the growth of the fertilized 

 achenium, as noted in the case of P. Virginianum, the remains of 

 the pistils protrude through the floral envelopes, but this is not 

 always the case. 



In the light of so much that has been developed in connection 

 with the relations between insects and flowers, these studies of Poly- 

 goni present an intricate puzzle. Here are all the facts, positively 

 presented, required in the theory of cross-fertilization in this way. 

 There is nectar, perfect pollen in abundance, and insect visitors. 

 But there are no flowers to be fertilized. Those that are fertile — 

 the only fertile flowers are absolutely closed to the insects, — are in 

 fact cleistogamous. 



The following is the list of species on which these observations 

 are founded : — 



P. orientate L. P. Pennsylvanicum L., 



P. Persicaria L. P. Hydropiper L. 



P. acre, H. B K. P. Virginianum L. 



P. aviculare, L P. arifolium L. 



P. sagittatum L. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



On the nature and office of Stipules. The author has printed a 

 paper in the Proceedings of the Academy, 1870, pp. 114-117, on the 

 Stipules of Magnolia, showing that the stipules not only performed 

 the office of bud-scales, but that the petals were transformed stipules, 

 and not metamorphosed leaves as we usually understand them to be. 

 The good friend whose loss we all deplore, Prof. Asa Gray, gen- 

 erously examined the manuscript before publication, and expressed 

 himself much pleased with the deductions drawn, observing, how- 

 ever, that if his memory served him right some German observer 

 had before suggested that petals are occasionally but modified stipu- 

 les. This is so obvious, that it would be surprising if the matter 

 had not been discussed somewhere, but the author has never been 

 able to discover the treatise that Professor Asa Gray believed he 

 had read on the subject. It is safe to say that, as a general rule, 

 stipules are not regarded as of any material importance in the 

 economy of plant life. In the treatment of this subject they are 

 simply spoken of as " appendages to the leaves," referred to as oc- 

 casionally serving as a bud-scale, and then dismissed from considera- 

 tion. 



There is no essential difference between a stipule and the dilated 

 base of a petiole. In some natural orders the presence of stipules 

 characterizes every genus ; in allied orders the complete stipule may 

 be wanting, but the bases of the leaves are widened and become thin. 

 The leaves are then characterized as having petioles dilated at the 

 base. 



It is worthy of remark that in plants having dilated petioles the 

 leaves with the petioles so dilated have much shorter petioles than 

 those on the same plant not dilated ; in Ranunculaceae and Umbel- 

 liferre for instance. The same rule obtains in those genera where 

 there is a difference in the size of the stipules in the same plant — 

 some Rosacea}. The size of the stipules is in inverse proportion to 

 the length of the petioles. It is important to note that elongation 

 is in a measure suppressed in proportion to the development of the 

 stipule or the dilated petiolar base. This may be seen in the case 

 of Corydalis fiavula (see Contributions IV, page 58). It may 

 also be noted in an examination of a stalk of clover, or a flowering 

 branch of the rose. The stipules become larger and the petioles 

 shorter as the flower bud is reached. 



Exactly the same order follows the production of bud-scales, when 

 a branch is about finishing its season's growth. Towards the end 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



of the season the ends of the petioles widen ; the petioles themselves 

 shorten ; and careful observations in many plants will show that the 

 final result of this process is the bud-scale. When, again, the season 

 for a renewal of growth occurs, the same process appears inverted. 

 The small scale grows larger and wider. Often a perfect petiole is 

 reached before a trace of leaf appears. In some species of Ash, and 

 in the Dwarf Horse-chestnut (Aesculus parvi flora), this transition is 

 particularly evident. The result of the examination will clearly 

 establish the fact that a bud scale is' a transformed leaf to be sure, 

 but a leaf in which the longitudinal growth has been arrested, and 

 a quickened growth secured for the base of the petiole or stipule. 

 We may more correctly say that a bud-scale is a transformed stipule, 

 or dilated petiolar base. 



Examining carefully the same growth-course in the clover or the 

 rose, there is seen the same gradual modification. The stipules are 

 enlarged until the leaf blades wholly disappear in the sepals ; the 

 petals, still the same modified stipule, widen and enlarge. No other 

 conclusion can be reached. But in the rose the sepals sometimes 

 narrow, and the leaf-blade reappears at the apex. In some varieties 

 grown in winter forcing houses, a perfect pinnate rose leaf appears. 

 This is the case, notably, with a variety known to florists as Madame 

 Ferdinand Jamain (in America " American Beauty.") Clear as it 

 is to the mind that when carefully traced, the petal of a rose is 

 formed of an enlarged stipule, and not of a fully planned leaf, the 

 positive evidence is not furnished as freely as in the case of the 

 sepal, but specimens of Rosa humilis, sent to me in 1883 by Miss 

 Jennie E. Whiteside, of Harmonsburg, Pennsylvania, give an ex- 

 cellent illustration. This form has been figured and described by 

 Mr. Sereno Watson in the Garden and Forest for February loth, 

 1889 as Rosa humilis, var triloba. The trilobed petal is simply a 

 case in which the usual stipule forming the petal of the rose, has 

 again had its normal growth accelerated towards a perfect leaf. 

 The central lobe is in fact no more than a dilated petiole, with the 

 stipule represented by the two lateral lobes, in its normal position 

 at its base. The same process from the total arrestation of petiole and 

 leaf blade to the abnormal dilation of the stipule to form the petal, 

 can be traced in magnolia, as made plain in the paper above cited. 



When we come to formulate the general proposition that the bud- 

 scales of branches, and the sepals and petals of flowers are modified 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



stipules (or dilated bases of petioles), it will not be surprising if in- 

 stances should be adduced where these organs are evidently modi- 

 fied leaf-blade rather than stipular. Nature seems so exhaustive 

 in her efforts at variety, that though the morphologist should be 

 able to prove his position in the greater percentage of cases, he 

 learns, by experience, that " never" and " always" are dangerous 

 terms. 



With this clearly conceived nature of bud-scales and floral en- 

 velopes before us, Ave get a nobler view of the office they have to 

 perform in the economy of plant-life. We cease to look on them 

 as mere " appendages" of so little account as to be usually dismissed 

 with a few words in treatises on structural and morphological botany. 

 They are the police force of vegetation, the defenders of the weak, 

 the protectors of infancy in the vegetable world. From the scale of 

 a Lily bulb, to the full-formed petal of the beautiful rose, we see the 

 self-same chord with myriads of tones in perfect harmony. It is a 

 good illustration of the unity of plan on which nature rings such 

 varied changes. 



And this conception of the nature and the office of stipules har- 

 monizes the morphological conceptions heretofore prevailing as to 

 the formation of the flower. We have long since ceased to say that 

 a flower is modified leaves ; we now teach that a whole branch is 

 modified when nature undertakes to mould a flower. Now if we 

 propose that bud-scales are modified stipules, and that their office is 

 protection, when the organs of a branch are so modified as to pro- 

 duce a flower, the stipular conceptions should lead to protection 

 also ; and this is conceded to be the chief duty of sepals and petals. 

 They are mainly for the protection of the tender parts they enclose. 



Bud scales and the floral envelopes are modified stipules, and 

 their office is protection to weaker portions of the plant structure. 



On parallel habits in allied species from widely separated localities. 

 In a paper published in the Proceedings of the Academy for 1862, 

 page 10, the author of this paper pointed out that the varia- 

 tions in many allied species of Europe and America were always 

 in the same line. For instance, if a European species had 

 shorter internodes, larger buds, more serrate or thicker leaves, 

 duller foliage in the fall, denser growth of branches than an Amer- 

 ican ally, species of other genera would also differ in the same com- 

 parative characters. In other words, the variations in character 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



which distinguish the species of America from the species of 

 Europe, are all on the same general plan. 



It may now be noted that in two species of Euonymus — one of 

 America and one of Japan — both remarkably dimorphic — the dimor- 

 phic one also has a remarkable correspondence. In our country we 

 have Euonymus Americanus. L., which we sometimes find growing 

 up as an arborescent shrub, of four or six feet, with a round head 

 on a single stem of near two inches in diameter, and with thick, 

 ovate, bright green leaves. At other times it is found as a low- 

 trailing plant with thin linear-lanceolate pale green leaves, having, 

 so far as I know, flowers but rarely in this trailing state. Many a 

 young botanist, in his earlier experience, must have wondered, as 

 the author has, whether they were not wholly distinct species. 

 Riper years with accumulated knowledge of the range of variation, 

 alone teaches the identity of the two. 



Euonymus Japonicus, of Japan* 

 presents the same conditions. This 

 was long ago described by Thunberg 

 under this name, and has been many 

 years cultivated in American gar- 

 dens. A leaf of this is given in 

 Fiir. 4. Laer has introduced E. 

 radicans of Siebold, Fig. ^represent- 

 ing a leaf of this form. For many 

 years it was grown in our gardens 

 as a simple low bush in shrubberies. 

 ►Some plants growing near a low 

 stone wall, took to climbing up as 

 the well-known English Ivy or the 

 American Trumpet creeper does, 

 doing full justice to Siebold's spe- 

 cific name radicans. As soon as it 

 reached the top of the wall, the 

 leaves increased in size and general 

 character, till it was difficult to 

 trace any difference between them 

 and Euonymus Japonicus. That 

 they were dimorphic forms of one 

 species admitted of no doubt. Cut- 

 tings of the upper brauches with 




€6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



the enlarged leaves were made, but the young earlier branches push- 

 ing out from the cuttings, gave the true radicant form of Siebold, 

 but eventually stronger branches pushed out with an erect habit. 

 Fig. 1, 2, 3, are all graduated leaves from one of these plants. 

 Fig. 3 will be seen to have reached very nearly the size and form 

 of a true E. Japonicus, Fig. 4, but it is not quite so thick and 

 shining. 



As the two species are not distantly related, it is certainly inter- 

 esting to note that the dimorphic one is of the same relative character 

 in each case, the climbing habit being still wanting in the American 

 species. 




1889.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 67 



April 2. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-nine persons present. 



The production of aerating organs on the roots of swamp and other 

 plants: — The following communication was read from Prof. Wil- 

 liam P. Wilson : — In the winter of 1885-86 I was in South Florida. 

 While studying the plants about Lake Butler in Hillsborough Co., 

 my attention was called to the excrescences on the roots of the bald 

 cypress, Taxodium distichiun Richard, generally called " knees." 

 The water in the lake was very low. During high water the waves 

 had washed bare the roots of many of the cypress trees along the shore. 

 In this way an occasional tree was found whose earlier formed root- 

 system was almost completely exposed. 



These exposed roots offered excellent opportunity for the study of 

 some of the points in the development of the so-called " knees." The 

 very early stages were secured by digging up the complete root- 

 system of young trees which were just beginning to show " knees," 

 and also by cultivating at a later date seedlings under varying 

 conditions. Some of the results early obtained led to the growing: of 

 other plants under varying conditions of moisture and dryness. 



Certain points concerning the development and function of roots 

 under the influence of excessive moisture, which seem to be clearly 

 made out, will be very briefly stated in this paper. A more extended 

 discussion of the same subject, including the anatomy of some of the 

 roots with explanatory cuts will, I hope, soon follow in the Proceed- 

 ings of this Academy. 



Taxodium distichum produces whenever it grows in wet places, 

 excrescences on its roots called " knees." These knees vary in size, 

 in height and in number in accordance with the depth of water 

 or amount of moisture existing under the trees. When the water 

 for a part of the year is deep the knees grow correspondingly high. If 

 the ground is simply overflowed and kept saturated with moisture 

 most of the season these knees grow low but multiply themselves in 

 great numbers. Fifty to one hundred may be produced from the root- 

 system of one tree. If the overflow is considerable in depth the 

 knees may exceed eight or ten feet in height. They are strictly root 

 productions as will be shown later both by their development and 

 anatomy. 



The development of these knees is by two very distinct methods. 

 First, if the seed germinates and the plant begins its growth in a 

 very wet place, many of the small roots which are only six or eight 

 inches below the soil grow upward towards the surface at slightly 

 varying angles of from 20° to 35°. Upon reaching the surface these 

 same roots turn and go down into the soil at about the same angle. 

 Some of them may, if the soil is very wet, or if under the water for 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



a part of the season, repeat this method of growth several times in 

 the course of six or eight feet. At each point where the root comes 

 to the surface begins later the development on its upper side of the 

 so-called " knees." 



A remarkably rapid increase of cells on one side takes place at 

 this point, which results in the constant elongation of the club 

 shaped body, the knee. This point of growth I shall discuss in a 

 following article. 



The second method of knee formation takes place on old roots 

 either horizontally or otherwise disposed to the surface. If the tree 

 requires from inundation or other causes more aerating surface than 

 can be readily or rapidly produced by young and growing roots, 

 then either the whole upper surface of the root in question may become 

 more active and rapid in its growth or the places of growth may be 

 limited to certain definite points. 



In the first case the whole root becomes widened, ribbon like and 

 corrugated in general appearance. In the second, separate and 

 distinct knees are formed. All knees cannot, however, be explained 

 from these two simple methods. The cypress roots seem to have 

 a very great tendency toward natural grafting. Whenever two roots 

 cross each other and later through increase in diameter press upon 

 each other they develop a natural union. In many cases when the 

 ascending and descending part of the root which forms the basis of 

 a knee approach parallelism they become later, through increasing 

 diameter, wholly consolidated in the formation of the knee. It may 

 happen that several knees begin their development within a few 

 inches of each other. In such cases they may later become consol- 

 idated into one. The external parts of the knee above the soil in such 

 cases may give little or no evidence of such consolidation. In the 

 first mentioned method of knee formation the root passing from the 

 tree to the " knee " is always less in diameter than the one leaving 

 the knee. On the root descending from the forming knee there gen- 

 erally develops a cluster of roots, these often become consolidated 

 later with the " knee." Roots which branch from the ascending part 

 of the forming " knee " develop new " knees." 



I do not propose at this time to discuss the function of these 

 knees further than to say that their location and occurrence indicate 

 beyond a doubt that they are for purposes of aerating the plant. 

 Given conditions of sufficient dryness and plants of Taxodium 

 distichmn may be produced without a sign of these excrescences. 

 The same or other plants may be placed under conditions of extreme 

 moisture when after a time the " knees " will appear on both old and 

 newly formed roots. The Taxodium seems to prefer swamps and 

 inundated locations and in such places always produces the " knees." 

 When cultivated in gardens and parks in dryer soils, where it readily 

 grows, it never produces them. 



The possibility of causing the development of these aerating 

 organs in the cypress or, by changed conditions, of making them fail 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



to appear at all, naturally leads oue to examine other plants which 

 from choice inhabit similar locations. There are numbers of trees 

 and smaller plants which when flooded part of the season or grown in 

 too wet soil will either form knees something like the cypress or send 

 their roots up into the air above the water. 



I have succeeded in causing common Indian corn to push up one 

 or more roots from each plant above the soil by keeping the same 

 saturated with moisture. Such roots grow up into the air and then 

 turn downward and enter the soil, forming perfect knees for aera- 

 ting the plant. 



In Georgia on slopes remaining inundated during the wet season 

 I have found the Pond pine, Pinus serotina Michx. making perfect 

 knees on the water side something like the cypress, while the roots 

 on the upper or dry side of the tree did not appear on the surface 

 at all. 



One of the most striking cases in which roots are sent up above 

 the surface of the soil and water may be found in one of the sour 

 gums the Water Tupelo, Ny.isa aquatica L. of the Southern states. 

 This tree sometimes grows in water holes associated with no other tree, 

 thus resembling a Cypress head. I found such Tupelo-heads fre- 

 quently in Georgia. In such cases the base of each tree was enlarged 

 to double the diameter five to eight feet from the ground. Around 

 the base of each tree extending six or eight inches above the high 

 water line was a compact mass of roots, each one growing vertically 

 up out of the water and after making a sharp bend growing down 

 parallel with the upright part into the water again. There were 

 sometimes dozens of these roots surrounding one tree closely appressed 

 to its base. These roots varied in size from that of the finger to 

 several inches in diameter. 



The genus Sonneratia, and also Avicennia L. both furnish interest- 

 ing trees which, growing in soils or ooze always saturated with water, 

 have contrived to send up vertical roots for purposes of aeration. 



Avicennia nitida grows in our own tropics and along the south- 

 ern shores of Florida. These vertical roots which extend up above 

 the soil from 6 to 10 inches are always in the air at low tide. They 

 are covered with numerous lenticells through which the air enters the 

 plant when they are not flooded. 



There is no doubt but that all swamp plants and others growing 

 between tide waters which are flooded during a part of the day 

 have provided themselves in one way or another with means for root 

 aeration. See interesting papers by K. Goebel 1 L. Jost, 2 and 

 Shaler. 3 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 



1 Berichle der rleutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, Jahrg. 1886, S. 249. 



2 Botanische Zeitung, Nr. 37, 38 u. 39— 1887— S. 601. 



3 Memoirs of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College, 

 Vol. XVI. No. 1, June 1887; Science, Vol. XIII. No. 318 p. 176. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



THE BOEING-SPONGE, CLIONA. 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



Among the ocean debris of the neighboring Atlantic coast, shells 

 of the oyster, Ostrea Virginiensis, and of the clam, Venus mercenaria, 

 conspicuous from their being riddled with holes, are frequent. When 

 I first saw such shells I suspected that the numerous perforations 

 were due to an annelid or perhaps a boring mollusk. In 1856, 

 while at Beasley's Point, on Great Egg Harbor, New Jersey, I had 

 the opportunity of observing the shells of both dead and living oysters 

 drilled in the same manner and with the borings occupied by a living, 

 soft, yellow, silicious sponge. A notice of my observations on the 

 sponge, attributed to the genus Cliona, with its character, peculiar 

 habit, and incidental importance in the economy of nature, was pub- 

 lished the same year in the Proceedings of this Academy, Vol. VIII, 

 p. 162. 



Apparently the massive form of the same sponge, was previously 

 described by Desor, under the name of Spongla sulphurea, occurring 

 in Vineyard Sound (Proc Boston Nat, Hist. Soc, 184$, 68). 



Later, the sponge of the same locality was noticed by Prof. Ver- 

 rill as Cliona sulphurea, and is described as commencing in the con- 

 dition of a boring form on dead shells and subsequently growing into 

 masses six or eight inches in diameter (Rep, U. S. Fish Commission, 

 1873, 421). 



In Little Egg Harbor, in the vicinity of Beach Haven, N. J:, I 

 have observed the boring-sponge in various stages from the condition 

 in which it occupies the shells of oysters and clams with its sensitive 

 papillae and oscules protruding from perforations of the surface of 

 the shell, to variously massive forms enclosing at their base the rid- 

 dled shells from which they sprung. Sometimes I have observed a 

 mass enveloping a pair of open, perforated, shells of an oyster or clam 

 in which the shells were still united at the hinge. Often too, a massive 

 sponge envelops, together with its original cradle, fragments of 

 other shells, pebbles and sand. To the fishermen of Beach Haven, 

 the massive sponge is familiar under the name of Bay-pumpkin; 

 often growing to the size of one's head. 



In the oyster beds, the boring-sponge especially invades the upper 

 or more exposed shell, and the living oyster incessantly protects it- 

 self by the formation of new shell-layers. The sedentary habit of 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



the oyster favors the invasion of its boring enemy. The free moving 

 clam, while alive, appears to be exempt from its attack, but the 

 shells of the dead clam are as thoroughly invaded and riddled as 

 those of the oyster. I have occasionally met with an isolated valve 

 of the Mactra solidissima, Pecten irradians, and the horse-mussel, 

 Modiola plicatula, which exhibited the perforations of the boring- 

 sponge, but none containing the living sponge. In one instance I 

 obtained a clam shell having attached to it a shell of Ilyanassa 

 obsoleta and tubes of Serpida, all together, drilled by the living 

 Cliona. On the cultivated oyster beds the massive Cliona is less 

 frequent than upon accumulations of dead oyster and clam shells 

 elsewhere, probably from the circumstance that it is more liable 

 to disturbance in its growth in collecting oysters from the beds. 



A boring-sponge closely resembling, if it is not identical with ours, 

 and having the same habits, occurs in European seas. It was first 

 definitely noticed by Dr. R. E. Grant, in the Edinburgh New Philo- 

 sophical Journal, 1826, p. 78, and found on the shells of dead and 

 living oysters (Ostrea edulis), in the Frith of Forth, Scotland. 

 The description of the sponge accords with my observations on the 

 boring-sponge as above indicated. From the accidental attachment 

 of some polyps to the sponge, observed by Dr. Grant, supposing the 

 polyps to belong to the sponge, he described it as a zoophyte and 

 named it Cliona celata. He also regarded the borings occupied by 

 it as not due to the sponge, but to annelids, though in the concluding 

 part of his account he remarks that it may be questioned whether 

 the shape of the silicious spicules and constant currents of the 

 papillse do not exert an influence in forming or enlarging the habit- 

 ation of the zoophyte. 



In 1840, Dr. G. D. Nardo, announced the occurrence of the bor- 

 ing-sponge of the oyster in the Adriatic, and gave to it the name of 

 Vioa (Un nuovo genere di Spongoli silicei.) Shortly after, Duver- 

 noy noticed the boring-sponge in the Ostrea hippopus, at Dieppe, and 

 gave to it the name ofSpongia terebrans (Comptes rendus, 1841, 683). 

 Dr. George Johnston, in 1842, in his History of British Sponges, 

 p. 125, described the boring-sponge of the oyster, under the name of 

 HaliehondHa celata, from the oyster beds of Inchkeith and from 

 the Frith of Forth. He also referred to the same species a massive 

 variety dredged in Butribuy Bay. 



In 1849, Mr. Albany Hancock, in a paper "On the excavating 

 Power of certain Sponges belonging to the genus Cliona" described 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



the Cliona celata, which he observes is the most destructive species 

 to oyster shells, and abounds in the Frith of Forth. His paper is 

 accompanied by a figure of the sponge occupying an oyster shell, 

 and the author remarks that the Cliona undoubtedly works out the 

 cavities it inhabits, whether mechanically or otherwise. He attributes 

 the boring power to silicious granules on the surface of the sponge 

 and to its contractility. The silicious granules are figured as 

 hexagonal plates with hexagonal markings. Mr. Hancock also 

 describes boring-sponges found in a number of other molluscous 

 shells, which sponges he referred to several other different species of 

 Cliona (Annals and Magazine of Natural History, Vol. VIII, p. 

 321). 



N. Lieberkuhn, in 1859, described the Cliona celata as living in 

 oyster shells at Heligoland, and attributed the boring of the shells 

 to the sponge (Archiv fur Anatomie, Vol. 26, 515). 



Dr. Bowerbank, in his work on the British Spongidae, II, 1866, 

 212, referred the Cliona celata of Dr. Grant, to another genus, with 

 the name of Hymeniacidon celata., to which he also refers the other 

 boring-sponges described by Mr. Hancock. He reports it as occur- 

 ring in all parts of Great Britain in oyster and other shells, and 

 also in limestone rocks of Tenby. Dr. Bowerbank doubted the 

 boring power of the sponge and regarded it as merely occupying the 

 deserted habitations of living annelids. Rev. A. M. Norman, editor 

 of the fourth volume of the same work, remarks that Dr. Bower- 

 bank persistently refused to entertain any other opinion than that 

 the Cliona only occupied previously-formed excavations, and had 

 no power of penetrating shell or stone. 



Dr. Johnston is the only European authority who ascribes a mas- 

 sive form of sponge to the same species as the ordinary boring form 

 of oyster shells. Dr. Bowerbank describes and figures a large mas- 

 sive sponge, common on the British coast, under the name of Rap- 

 hyrus Griffithsii, and refers to it the massive variety of Halichondria 

 celata of Dr. Johnston, observing that it is not a matter of surprise 

 that it should have been confounded with Dr. Grant's Cliona 

 celata, the spicula of the species being so very similar in size and 

 form. 



Dr. 0. Schmidt describes Cliona celata,\mder the name of Vioa 

 celata, occurring on oysters and stones in the Adriatic, and remarks 

 that its spicules are pin-like and of one kind only, (Supplement der- 

 Spongien des Adriatischen Meeres, 1864, 40). His distinctive char 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



acter of Vioa is that it is parasitic, and lives in perforations of shells 

 and stones (Die Spongien der Adriatisehen Meeres, 1862, p. 40). 

 He also describes what he considers to be a new genus of sponges, 

 Papillina, which, except in name, I cannot distinguish from Cliona. 

 The species Papillina suberea he describes as yellow with numerous 

 warts on the surface and with only pin-like spicules. Bowerbank 

 regards it the same as Baphyrus Griffithsii, corresponding with the 

 Halichondria celata of Johnston, who described it as a variety of 

 Dr. Grant's Cliona celata, and this is admitted by Schmidt (Spongien 

 der Atlantischen Gebietes, 1870, 77). The latter further describes 

 a cushion-like (polsterformiger) Papillina, from the coast of Florida, 

 which likewise appears to be a Cliona. 



As the massive form of Halichondria celata of Johnston, synony- 

 mous with Baphyrus Griffithsii of Bowerbank and Papillina suberea 

 of Schmidt, accords in color and structure, and in the form and size 

 of its silicious spicules, with Cliona celata, it seems to be related to 

 this, as our massive Cliona sulphurea is to the boring form of the 

 ovster and clam. It remains to determine whether our boring-sponge 

 of the oyster is the same species as that of European seas. So far 

 as we may judge from the descriptions of the European sponge in 

 comparison with ours they appear to be identical in color, form, 1 

 structure and habits. Both also have but one kind and form of 

 silicious spicules. But in these, if the records are correct, we find a 

 very considerable difference in size. Grant, Hancock, Bowerbank, 

 and Lieberkuhn give as the size of the spicules of Cliona celata, 

 about sVth of an inch, while in all our forms of Cliona, in the oyster 

 and clam and in the largest massive varieties, the size of the spicules 

 is only about sVth of an inch. Moreover, if the observation of 

 Mr. Hancock is correct and I have not erred in my own, there is 

 still a more remarkable difference. 



In the boring-sponge of our oyster and clam I could detect no 

 trace of the silicious, hexagonal granules, which Mr. Hancock re- 

 gards as the instruments of boring of Cliona celata. In the posi- 

 tion indicated for these granules, in repeated examinations, I could 

 find nothing but a few scattered irregular particles of quartz sand. 

 The onlv distinction then, if future observations prove them 

 really to exist, between Cliona sulphurea and Cliona celata, are the 

 considerably longer, silicious, pin-like spicules of the latter and the 

 presence in the boring form of additional haxagonal, silicious gran- 

 ules; otherwise both would pertain to the single species Cliona celata. 



6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



A different and pretty form of Cliona, and probably an unde- 

 scribed species, is exemplified by specimens obtained on the coast of 

 Florida by Mr. Joseph Willcox. Though from the same locality, 

 they do not appear to accord with the descriptions of Schmidt of 

 Papillina cribrosa and arenosa (Spongien des Atlantischen Gebietes, 

 p. 48). 



In four specimens, of which one is a twin, making, according to 

 the ordinary view, five individuals, all accord in their upright 

 cylindrical, sausage-like form. In their present state all but one are 

 somewhat dusky-white spotted by brownish rings and smooth as if 

 water-worn. The remaining specimen, shorter and more robust 

 than the others, is dark-brown with a yellow tinge on one side of the 

 base and is covered with warts. It resembles in the same condition 

 the appearance of surface of the massive form of Cliona sulphurea, 

 and probably like this, in the fresh state was sulphur-colored. 



The specimens range in length from 90 to 175 mm and from 

 35 to 50 mm in breadth. The summit is rounded truncate, depressed 

 centrally, and in the unworn or more recent specimen imperforate 

 with a short, stem-like tubercle. The base in the latter specimen 

 is truncate, and looks as if it had been cut away from a fixed 

 attachment. Two of the other specimens are rounded in the same 

 position, broken along a semicircle where they seem to have been 

 attached, and have a depression or cave on one side communi- 

 cating with a central perforation. A specimen, 130 mm long and 

 35 mm broad, cut across the middle, exhibits a central cavity extend- 

 ing the length of the sponge, 16 mm wide, and with smooth imperforate 

 sides. The surface of the worn sponges is divided into mostly 

 haxagonal areas 3 or 4 mm wide, with a central circular spot and 

 darker border. In the unworn sponge the hexagonal areas are oc- 

 cupied by a central circular papilla variably prominent, level, or 

 slightly depressed. The exterior of the sponge is composed of a 

 more compact, thin lamina or skeleton of silicious spicules with 

 comparatively little of the softer sponge-structure, while the interior 

 greatly thicker portion extending to the inner cavity is composed 

 of a looser texture of the same kind of spicules with a large propor- 

 tion of the softer structure, pervaded by bands of the more compact 

 substance extending inward from the exterior layer. The silicious 

 spicules of the sponge are of one kind only, pin-like in form, and 

 identical in all other respects, including size, with these of Cliona 

 sulphur en. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



In the shape of the sponge with its interior chimney-like cavity it 

 resembles the tubular form of individuals of many keratose sponges, 

 and is so unlike the more familiar forms of the living sponge that if 

 not a different species, as a marked variety it might be distinguished 

 as Cliona phallica. 



Mr. YVillcox, who is now in Florida, writes that the Cliona phal- 

 lica is one of the most common sponges of the coast. He observes 

 that when alive it is of a yellow color, and has an opening at the 

 summit nearly as large as the end of the little finger. It is very 

 sensitive and when disturbed contracts and closes the orifice. The 

 dead specimens never exhibit the latter open. Mr. Willcox says 

 that he observed the sponge at Clear-water Harbor, near Tarpin 

 Springs. ANow tide, when covered with only five or six inches of 

 water, this was seen to be in active movement above the sponge in- 

 dicating a current flowing from the aperture. In wading, when 

 Mr. Willcox approached within four or five feet of the sponges, the 

 currents flowing from them would cease and on touching them they 

 would close the terminal aperture. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



VARIATION IN OPHIURA PANAMENSIS AND OPHIURA TERES. 



BY J. E. IVES. 



Among the Ophiurans in the collection of the Academy there are 

 a number of specimens from the Pacific Coast of North and Central 

 America which appear to me to belong respectively to Ophiura 

 Panamensts Liitken and Ophiura teres Lyman. I have had occa- 

 sion, while identifying these forms, to correlate the descriptions of 

 Messrs. Liitken, Lyman & Verrill (Liitken, Vidensk. Selsk. Skrift. 

 1850, p. 193 ; Lyman, Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H. vii, pp. 198, 257, 1860, 

 and 111. Cat. Mus. Comp. Zool., No. 1, pp. 32, 37, 1865; Verrill, 

 Trans. Conn. Acad., i p. 253), and as the specimens above mentioned 

 appear to add to our knowledge of the variation in color and pattern, 

 I propose, therefore, to briefly consider some of the characteris- 

 tic features of these two species. In addition to the specimens in 

 the collection of the Academy I have had the opportunity of ex- 

 amining three specimens kindly loaned by the Museum of Compara- 

 tive Zoology. Mr. W. N. Lockington, who made a study of 0. Pan- 

 amends during his residence on the West Coast, has also courteously 

 placed at my disposal some manuscript notes. 



The different varieties of 0. Panamensts appear to range them- 

 selves into two groups, as follows : 



1. Upper surface of disk dark green, greenish gray or brownish, 

 sometimes speckled with darker, and sometimes with a white mark 

 in the center ; upper surface of arms, same, banded with lighter and 

 darker, with outer edges of upper arm-plates occasionally marked with 

 dark longitudinal lines, presenting a toothed appearance (Panama 

 to Cape St. Lucas). 



2. Disk olive green, mottled with black and red, or of various 

 shades of brown; arms, same, banded with lighter ; darker bands 

 sometimes mottled with lighter, and the light bands so dark as al- 

 most to obliterate the banding. (West Coast of Mexico, Lower 

 California and California.) Mr. Lockington records a variety with 

 a brown disk and olive green, arms without bands except at the tips. 



The various specimens of this species agree in having the upper 

 arm-plates little or not at all broken ; the radial shields naked and 

 the mouth shields about as long as broad, convex outwardly and 

 with a slight, rounded angle on the inside. The larger specimens 

 have eleven arm spines at the base of the arm. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



In these structural characters they differ from 0. teres in which 

 the upper arm-plates are broken into two or more pieces, the radial 

 shields covered and the mouth shields usually broad and short with 

 a nearly straight outer edge, concave sides and a rounded lobe pro- 

 jecting inwards. The arm sjnnes usually number nine in specimens 

 corresponding in size to those of 0. Panamensis in which eleven are 

 found. 



One of the specimens loaned by the Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology and labeled " Gulf of California," agrees in general char- 

 acter with 0. teres, but possesses uncovered radial shields. There is 

 also a very young (four-armed) alcoholic specimen in the collection 

 of the Academy in which the radial shields are naked. Mr. Lyman 

 has described the young of 0. teres as having uncovered radial 

 shields. Prof. Verrill, however, states that this is not the case with 

 the young forms in the museum of Yale College, and I find that the 

 young specimens of 0. teres, in the collection of the Academy, with 

 the single exception of the specimen above mentioned, have the 

 radial shields granulated as in the adult. These two specimens and 

 those mentioned by Mr. Lyman (Proc. Bost. Soc, vii, p. 257) seem 

 to indicate, nevertheless, that the young occasionally have the radial 

 shields uncovered. 



The color of the upper surface of the disk and arms of 0. teres is 

 of various shades of brown, sometimes speckled with grayish white. 

 In an alcoholic specimen from Nicaragua the arms are very irreg- 

 ularly banded with light brown, the outer and inner plates of a 

 dark band being darker than the other plates forming the band. 



The darkest variety of 0. teres closely resembles the darkest 

 variety of 0. Panamensis. In both forms some of the upper arm- 

 plates of the outer portion of the arm have white markings, which 

 form segments of two broken parallel longitudinal lines, one on 

 each side of the arm. Each segment occupies one or more plates and 

 is separated from the next segment by an also variable number of 

 plates without any such markings. 



It will be seen from the above that 0. Panamensis presents a very 

 great variety of color pattern. This variation is probably due to 

 the wide north and south range of the species, viz : from Panama to 

 California. It is noticeable that the darker varieties are found 

 northwards, the darkest specimens in the collection of the Academy 

 coming from San Diego. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889- 



ON PRATINCOLA SALAX VERB. AND ALLIED SPECIES. 

 BY WITMEE STONE. 



While engaged in studying the Pratincolas in the Academy's col- 

 lection, I observed a specimen bearing Verreanx's printed label 

 marked as the type of Pratincola. salax Verr.* A comparison of this 

 specimen with the description of P. salax in Sharpe's Catalogue of 

 the Birds in the British Museum (Vol iv, p. 184), and with the 

 original description (Rev. et. Mag. de Zool. 1851, p. 307), led to 

 some interesting results. 



P. salax of Sharpe's Catalogue is evidently one of the P. rubetra 

 group, with a light-colored throat, while the type specimen now 

 before me belongs to the P. rubicola group, with the throat uniformly 

 black, and seems to be identical with P. sybilla from Madagascar. 



It is curious that the bird described by Sharpe should have been 

 referred to P. salax of Verreaux, as the original description distinctly 

 refers to a black-throated bird. Verreaux first describes the bird 

 as black — and then enumerates the parts which are differently 

 colored (" Nigerrima ; uropygio, collari interrupto, macula alarum 

 magna interna, abdomine albis ; pectore castaneo."') As no special 

 mention is made of the throat it is certainly understood to be black. 

 The more minute description following the Latin diagnosis agrees 

 precisely with the specimen before me, placing its authenticity be- 

 yond a doubt. 



Verreaux's bird is from the Gaboon, and with the exception of 

 some specimens collected by I)u Chaillu at Cape Lopez and River 

 Cam ma (Cassin, Proc. Phil. Acad.. 1859, p. 39) is the only black- 

 throated specimen recorded from this part of Africa. I cannot say 

 whether or not Cassin's determination of these birds was correct, as 

 a careful search through the Academy's collection has failed to dis- 

 cover Du Chaillu's specimens. 



The type specimen seems identical both in size and coloration 

 with one of P. sybilla from Madagascar and differs from the south 

 African form, P. torquata, in its smaller size, narrower bill, and in 

 the chestnut color being confined to the fore part of the breast. 



*This bird (No. 722 Acad. Catalogue) together with- several others of Ver- 

 reaux's types, was purchased by Dr. Thos. B. Wilson and presented to the 

 Academy with the rest of the Wilson collection. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



P. axillaris Shelly (Proc. Zool. Soc, 1884, p. 556), from Mt. 

 Kilimanjaro, seems closely allied to P. sybilla, but differs from it in 

 its larger size, black axillaries, and in the diminution of the white 

 on the inner edge of the secondaries beneath. 



It may be that a series of Gaboon specimens may show some dis- 

 tinctive race characters, but certainly the form does not differ spe- 

 cifically from the Madagascar bird, and perhaps P. axillaris may fall 

 under the same head. 



In that case P. sybilla would be considered as ranging across all 

 central Africa, P. salax representing the western face, typical P. 

 sybilla the Madagascar race and P. axillaris a mountain form of the 

 same ; while on the south the species would be replaced by P. tor- 

 quata. 



All the species just mentioned including the white-tailed species 

 P. hemprichii, may be distinguished from the group consisting of 

 P. rubicola, P. maura and P. leucura, by the color of the breast in 

 the males which in the former is dark chestnut and in the latter 

 lighter, orange rufous. 



This difference in coloration of the breast seems to correspond 

 with the geographical distribution, the lighter forms being found in 

 Europe and Asia, while the darker are confined to Africa. 



The identirication of P. salax Verr. with P. sybilla Linn., leaves the 

 bird described as P. salax in Sharpe's catalogue without a name. 

 Although the species is apparently distinct from any described form, 

 nevertheless, as there are no specimens in the Academy collection, 

 and as I have never had an opportunity of examining any, I hesitate 

 to propose a name for it and thereby, perhaps, add to the already 

 complicated synonymy of the genus. The species forming the 

 P. rubicola group to which P. sybilla belongs may be arranged 

 as follows : 



Eur. Asiatic Group. Breast orange rufous : — 

 Ao white visible on the tail. 



P. rubicola (Linn.) 



Europe and Western Asia. 



P. maura (Pall) (=P. indica, Blyth.) 



Asia ; range coalescing with that of the former somewhere 

 in the water shed of the Volga (Sharpe.) Several geo- 

 graphical races of this species have been described, but 

 do not seem worthy of specific rank. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Basal portion of tall white for two-thirds of its length. 



P. leueura Blyth. 



India and Burmese countries. 



African group. Breast dark chestnut : — 

 No white visible on the tail. 



P. sybilla (L.) (=P- salax Verr.) 



Madagascar and Gaboon, perhaps extending across cen- 

 tral Africa and exhibiting several geographical races of 

 which the following may be one : 



P. axillaris Shelly. 

 Kilimanjaro. 



P. tor quota (L.) (=P. })astor Voigt.) 

 South Africa. 

 Basal portion of the tail white. 



P. hemprichii( Ehrenb.) 



N. E. Africa, ranging into S. E. Europe (Severtzoff). Of 

 course the two white-tailed species are closely related, and 

 are separated here merely to carry out the geographical 

 division. 








1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



NEW AND LITTLE-KNOWN AMERICAN MOLLUSCS. No. 1. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Under the above title I propose to describe and figure the 

 species of American mollusks, either new to science or imperfectly 

 understood, accumulating from time to time in the collection of this 

 Academy. In this first contribution are presented the results of my 

 study of a number of* forms received from various collectors and 

 localities in the Southern States, Mexico, etc. 



Holospira elizabethse Pilsbry. PI. Ill, figs. 1 to 5. 



Shell imperforated, cylindrical, becoming narrower toward the 

 base, rather solid, white, opaque, the apex tiesh-colored ; whorls 17 

 to 22, slightly convex, slightly, irregularly striate near the sutures, 

 nearly smooth in the middle, the last whorl costulate-striate, flesh- 

 tinted beneath, narrower than the preceding whorls, its last half 

 rounded, not carinated beneath, produced forward, expanded toward 

 the peristome ; aperture round, truncate above ; peristome expanded, 

 thin, continuous, its upper margin slightly sinuous. Spire wider 

 above; terminating in a short flesh-colored cone ; apex obtuse, the 

 apical whorl rather large and prominent. Internal column wide 

 above, tapering toward the base, hollow, marked by regularly spaced 

 longitudinal fold-like ridges. 



Alt. 21, diam. maj. 5, of penult, whorl 4 mill. 



Alt. 15, diam. maj. 5j of penult, whorl 4] mill. 



Alt. 16, diam. maj. 5} of penult, whorl 4 mill. 



Aperture : alt. 3, diam. 3 mill. 



Village of Amula, between Tixtla and Chilapa, State of Guerrero, 

 S. \V. Mexico. 



Although the proportions of length to diameter are so variable, 

 the aperture is nearly the same size in all of the specimens. The 

 species is decidedly larger than any described Holospira. Its near- 

 est allies seem to be H. Gealii H. Ad., H. imbricata Mart., H.micro- 

 stowa Crosse and Fischer ; but I need not here compare these 

 species with H. elizabethce, for they can be separated at a glance. 



1 am indebted to Mr. Herbert H. Smith, the well-known entomologist, 



for specimens. 



The animal is whitish, the whole surface reticulated and granose, 

 the granules elongated, brown. The foot is about 6 mill, in length, 



2 mill, broad. The mantle is about central. It is very timid Ac- 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



cording to Mr. Smith, the species is abundant at the locality given 

 above, although not found in the surrounding country. Like the 

 other species of Holospira it lives upon rocks. Movement upon 

 a horizontal surface is evidently a difficult feat, the heavy shell 

 rolling from side to side in a most embarrassing way ; but on the 

 perpendicular sides of a glass jar, Elizabeth's Holospira is quite at 

 home, moving slowly but easily in any direction, the graceful shell 

 always hanging vertically. 



Helix (Microphysa) hypolepta Shuttleworth. PI. Ill, figs. 6, 7, 8. 



Of this minute form no diagnosis or figures have been published, 

 although the name has been upon the lists for many years. The 

 shell was apparently unknown to Pfeiffer except by the remarks of 

 Shuttleworth, who says under his diagnosis of H. minuscula Binn. : 

 " Altera species proxima, sed testa aperte umbilicate, et anfr. 

 ultimo basi devio distincta, in insula Bermuda occurrit, cujus speci- 

 mina pluriina ab am. Bland accepti, atque H. hypolepta nominavi." 



The shell is minute, discoidal, whitish, subtranslucent and shining, 

 with wrinkles of increment above, nearly smooth beneath. The 

 four whorls are very convex, quite gradually widening, the last one 

 with the periphery above its middle, the lower lateral surfaces slop- 

 ing somewhat as in H. vortex Pfr. The aperture is small, not very 

 oblique, oval. The lip is acute, upper and basal margins quite 

 arcuate, the baso-columellar margin slightly expanded. The um- 

 bilicus is broad, more than one-third the diameter of the shell. 



Alt. 1, diam. 2| mill. 



It is evidently allied to H. (Microphysa) vortex Pfr., but is much 

 smaller, flatter, with broader umbilicus. I need not compare 

 Zonites minusculus with this shell ; a glance at the figures will 

 show at once the difference. 



Helix hypolepta. Shuttleworth, Diagnosen neuer Mollusken, no. 

 6, from the Bern. Mittheil., March, 1854, p. 129. 



The group Microphysa, in which I have placed this shell has been 

 a stumbling block to most of the authors who have recognized it. 

 It consists of small, umbilicated, thin, hyaline shells, with sharp lip 

 to the lunar-oval aperture, convex whorls and impressed sutures. 

 There is little in all this to separate it from certain forms of Zonites 

 (Z. minusculus, for example). But the Zonites have narrow aculeate 

 marginal teeth to the radula, while these shells, typified by H. 

 boothiana Pfr., have the dentition of Patula. The marginal teeth 

 are low, wide, with several denticles. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



Of course the miscellaneous collection of small Helices under 

 Mierophysa in Albers-Marten's Die Heliceen should be to some ex- 

 tent dismembered (although most of them are probably true 

 Microphysae), as well as the genus as constituted by Biuney (Terr. 

 Moll, v.), and only the species agreeing in characters of shell and 

 dentition with H. booth iana, H. vortex, H. inerustata etc. be included. 

 This group then, after the elimination of all snails with narrow, 

 thorn-shaped marginal teeth, will comprise about twenty species of 

 West Indian shells. Its relations are probably with Patula. The 

 jaw so far as I know is ribbed ; but this is a character of secondary 

 importance. Mierophysa has nothing to do with the minuscuhis 

 group of small Zonites. It belongs to a different family. 



Zonites dallianus Simpson. PI. III. figs. 9, 10, 11. 



Shell minute, depressed, narrowly umbilicated, fragile, pale straw- 

 colored, somewhat shining ; under a lens seen to be marked with 

 delicate growth-lines above, smoother beneath. Spire a little con- 

 vex ; apex subacute ; sutures scarcely impressed. Whorls three and 

 one-half, scarcely convex, the last wide. Aperture oblong-lunate, 

 oblique, upper and lower margins sub-parallel, slightly converging ; 

 peristome acute. 



Alt. H, diam. maj. 3, min. 2|> mill. 



West Florida, at Shaw's Point, Manatee Co., and Little Sarasota 

 Bay. 



Differs from Z. arboreus Say in the smaller spire and wider last 

 whorl ; fewer whorls ; differently shaped aperture. It is about half 

 the size of Z. arboreus, and the sculpture is the same as in that 

 species. The Helix ottonis of Pfeifier, of which specimens from 

 Cuba and Havti are before me, has no special relationship to this 

 species, but is undoubtedly a synonym of Z. arboreus, as Pfeiffer him- 

 self concluded. H. ottonis differs from arboreus in nothing but the 

 lighter color ; the form and dimensions are precisely as in arboreus. 

 (See Pfr. in Wiegm. Archiv fur Naturgesehi elite, 1840, p. 251 ; the 

 species was never described in the " Monographia Heliceorum.") 



The aperture in Z. dallianus is less lunate than in Z. arboreus, 

 emb racing less of the penultimate whorl ; seen from beneath, the 

 greater portion of the aperture lies outside of the periphery of the 

 penultimate whorl; whilst in Z. arboreus the reverse is the case. 

 The much smaller size of dallianus also separates it from Z. arboreus. 



This species was sent me under the above name by Mr. Chas. T. 

 Simpson, the well-known student of Floridan shells. The same 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



form I find in the museum of the Academy, collected by Mr. Henry 

 Hemphill. 



Zonites singleyanus Pilsbry. Proc. A. X. S. Philada., 1888, PI. xvii, figs. m,m,m. 



►Shell minute, broadly umbilicate, planorboid, the spire scarcely 

 perceptibly exserted ; subtranslucent, waxen white, shining, smooth, 

 under a strong lens seen to be slightly wrinkled by growth-lines ; 

 whorls three, rather rapidly increasing, separated by well-impressed 

 sutures, convex, the apex rather large ; body-whorl depressed, 

 slightly descending, indented below around the umbilicus ; aperture 

 small, semilunar, oblique ; peristome simple, acute. Umbilicus nearly 

 one-third the diameter of the shell, wide, showing all the whorls. 



Alt, 1, diam. 2 mill. 



New Brannfels, Comal Co., Texas. 



Allied to Z. minusculus, but much more depressed, more shining, 

 smoother, smaller, with broader umbilicus and a complete whorl 

 less than minusculus. 



This species, one of the most 'distinct of the smaller forms of 

 Hyalina, was communicated to me by Mr. J. A. Singley, in whose 

 honor it is named. I have also found a few specimens among the 

 shells collected by myself in central Texas, during the winter of 

 1885-'86. With Z. singleyanus at New Braunfels are found 

 quantities of Z. minusculus. The latter species exhibits some varia- 

 tion, being often more depressed than most northern specimen. This 

 depressed form has been noticed in Mexico by Strebel,* who pro- 

 poses for Z. minusculus the new generic title of Chanomphalus, which 

 of course is completely synonymous with Pseudohyalina Morse. 

 1864, and this again is not different enough from Hyalina to warrant 

 the erection of a new genus or sub-genus. There is some variation 

 in the width of the umbilicus in Texan specimens of Z. minusculus, 

 but I have not seen specimens with it so wide as Dr. Dall indicates 

 for his var. alachuana, from Florida. H elegantulus Pfr. is about 

 the size and form of my Zonites singleyanus, but it is a strongly sculp- 

 tured species. 



It may not be out of place here to note the fact that the Helix 

 (Polygyra) hippocrepis Pfr. has been rediscovered by Mr. Singley, 

 near New Braunfels ; as typical examples sent me attest. This 

 species has been heretofore known by but one specimen in America 



* Vide Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Fauna mexikanischer Land und Siisswasser 

 Conchylien, Theil iv, p. 19, pi. iv, fig. 10. (1880.) 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



as far as I am aware. The shell exhibits a type of aperture com- 

 plications different from any other species of Polygyra. 



Poecilozonites reinianus Pfr. Far. goodei Pilsbry. PI. Ill, figs. 12 and 13. 



This form is similar in coloration and texture to P. reinianus. 

 It is more broadly umbilicated, planorboid, the spire flat, or even 

 sub-immersed ; whorls six. 



Alt. 3, diam, 10 mill. 



Among the Bermudan shells sent to Prof. Heilprin from the U.S. 

 Nat. Mus., were a number of this variety, which seems to me dis- 

 tinct enough for a name. The types of the variety are No. 94,424 

 of the National Museum register. Collected by G. Browne Goode. 



Poecilozonites bermudensis Pfr. 



The result of my dissection of this species was a surprise to me, 

 for I had expected the same form of genitalia found in Zonites. The 

 genitalia are figured on plate xvii of the Proceedings of this 

 Academy for 1888, figs. N, o. The penis (p.) is rather short, con- 

 voluted, thick, the vas deferens inserted at its termination, is rather 

 short. The cloaca is large, wide ; below the penis there is a long 

 club-shaped sac (d.), its base dilated where it enters the cloaca. 

 This is probably a dart-sack, although the specimens examined by 

 me contained no dart. On the penis near its base arises a duct (d.), 

 which uniting with another (d.) arising opposite the penis, is con- 

 tinued into a long duct coiled around the vagina, and ends in a 

 small oval bulb, the receptaculum seminis or spermatheca (sp.). 

 The way it is coiled around the vagina is shown also in fig. o, which 

 represents another specimen. The albumen gland, etc. offer no un- 

 usual characters. I did not dissect out the ovo-testis. My speci- 

 mens were quite hard, having been in strong spirit. 



The connection of the duct of the spermatheca with the penis is 

 unique as far as I know, in the Pulmonata, and suggests the proba- 

 bility of self-impregnation. 



Mr. W. G. Binney has kindly called my attention to his note upon 

 the dentition and jaw of H. bermudensis and the dentition of H. 

 circumfirmata in the Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., iii, p. 86, 105. The 

 first species is placed by hini with doubt in Zonites with the remark 

 that " it seems to belong to no described genus." H. circumfirmata 

 is left in Microphysa, for want of a better place, but Mr. Binney 

 points out the fact that the species belongs to the Vitrinea rather 

 than to the Helicea. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Mr. Mazyck, of Charleston, S. C, has also published a note upon 

 H. berraudensis, since my own paper was issued, and I am indebted 

 to him for a copy of it. H. bermudensis is recognized by Mazyck 

 as the type of a new genus, Juno, which of course becomes a synonym 

 of Pcecilozonites. 



Mr. C. F. Ancey has likewise bestowed a subgeneric name upon 

 H. bermudensis; and I suppose that for some years to come we will 

 have an annual harvest of " genera " for one or another member of 

 this little group ! I would suggest that P. circumfirmatus or P. 

 reinianus be selected as "types" for future "genera," as the syn- 

 onymy of bermudensis is becoming inconveniently cumbersome! 



The synonymy of Pcecilozonites is as follows : 



Helix Pfeiffer, Monographia Heliceorum Viventium i, p. 188, and 

 of most authors. 



Hyalinia Pfeiffer-Clessin, Nomenclator Hel. Viv. p. 69. 1881. 



Hyalosagda Pfeiffer-Clessin, Noment. Hel. Viv. p. 75. 



Sagda (Hyalosagda) Tryon, Manual of Conchology, 2d series, iii, 

 p. 9. 



Trochomorpha Albers, Die Heliceen, 1850, p. 116. 



Caracolus Albers-Martens, Die Heliceen, 1860, p. 156. 



Zonitesf and Microphysaf W. G. Binney, Ann. N. Y. Acad. 

 Sci. iii, p. 86, 105. 



Pcecilozonites Bottger, Jahrb. f. Min. Geo!, u. Paleont. 1884, 

 ii Bd., p. 139. 



Pcecilozonites (" Sandb") Tryon, Manual of Conchology, 2d series, 

 iii, p. 19, 95. 



Bermudia Ancey, Conchologists' Exchange, i, p. 53, 1887. 



Juno Mazyck, Proc. Elliott Soc. Nat. Hist., 1888, p. 210 (issued 

 Mar. 19, 1889). 



Pmcilozonites Pilsbry, Proc. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1888, p. 285. 



H. bermudensis Pfr. is the type of the three genera — Pa'cilozonites, 

 Bermudia and Juno. 

 Bythinella sequicostata Pilsbry. PI. Ill, fig. 16. 



Shell sub-imperforate, narrow, elongated, composed of about 6? 

 very convex whorls, separated by profound sutures ; the spire is long, 

 tapering, a trifle obtuse at the apex. The color is corneo-olivaceous ; 

 the whorls are slightly marked by delicate growth-lines. The spire 

 has longitudinal low, fold-like ribs, which are sometimes nearly ob- 

 solete upon the body-whorl. Aperture oval or somewhat quadrate 

 in outline, less than one-third the length of the shell ; peristome 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



thin, acute, continuous, but closely adnate on the parietal wall above 

 the sub-perforate umbilicus; columella slightly folded. 



Alt. 5-6, diam. 2 mill. 



Sumter Co. and Haulover Canal, at the head of Indian Kiver, Fla. 



This shell is similar to the form of B. nickliniana called B. atten- 

 uata Hald. in shape. It is distinguished by the low folds of the 

 surface. When these are well developed the shell has somewhat the 

 aspect of a tiny Goniobasis plicifera Lea. Mr. John Campbell of 

 Germantown, Pa., presented me with numerous specimens from the 

 locality last named. The apex is frecpiently eroded, as in most 

 Floridan fresh-water shells. The folds of the surface are a unique 

 character in American Bythinellre, but I do not doubt that 

 it belongs to this genus. I have seen specimens of Tryonia very 

 similar to the B. cequicostata, but usually Tryonia is more strongly 

 ribbed. I think it likely that this is the same form that was dredged 

 by Professor Heilprin in Lake Okeechobee* 

 Hydrobia monroensis FrauenfeM. pi. Ill, figs. 17, IS, 19. 



My attention was first called to Frauenfeld's descriptions of Flor- 

 idan Rissoidre when engaged in identifying a number of species 

 sent me by Mr. C.T.Simpson. About that time Dr. Dall published 

 descriptions of several Floridan Rissoids,f among them one which 

 he called Bythinella monroensis ; writing under it as a doubtful syn- 

 onym Hy. monroensis Frauenfeld. Upon looking over the Acad- 

 emy collection I found a specimen of H. monroensis marked by 

 Frauenfeld himself, and sent by him to Mr. Tryon many years ago. 

 This specimen is drawn in fig. 17 of pi. iii, and corresponds exactly 

 with Frauenfeld's description, which is as follows: 



" Eine Verwandte von jamaicensis Ad. oder cristallina [sic] Pfr. 

 durch mehr oder minder gerandete Naht unterschieden. Schale 

 keglich, nicht sehr stark, graugriin, cilglanzend. 5> Windungen, 

 leicht gewblbt, Naht gerandet. Mundung langlieh, nach unten stark 

 vorgaogen, oben ehoas gewinkelt, Saum nicht scharf, an der Windung 

 lang angelegt. Nabelspalte fein. Liinge 3.8 mill, Breite 2. 1 mill." 



All of Frauenfeld's specimens were from Lake Monroe. 



Note in this description the passages which I have italicized, and 

 which agree perfectly with the shells I have figured, but not at all 

 with Dr. Dall's species, which is quite a distinct form. 



*E.\plorations on the West Coast of Florida, ttc. Trans. Wagner Free Inst, i, 

 1887, p. 42. 



f Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. viii, 1885, p. 256, el seq. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



The synonymy is as follows : 



Hydrobia monroensis Frauenfeld, Verh. der k. k. zool-bot Gesell. 

 Wien, 1863, p. 1023. 



Bythinella monroensis (Frau.) Tryon, Continuation of Haldeman's 

 Monog. Fresh-water univalve Moll. U. S., p. 48. 



Not B. monroensis Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. viii, 1885, p. 256, 

 pi. xvii, fig. 9. 



Figures 18 and 19 of the plate are drawn from specimens collected 

 by Mr. C. T. Simpson in Hillsborough River, W. Florida. I have 

 also seen specimens from Florida Springs, Fla. 

 Amnicola peracuta Pilsbry & Walker. PI. Ill fig. 20. 



Shell ovate-conoidal, rather thin, narrowly perforate, light oliv- 

 aceous or a little tinged with yellowish, quite smooth, somewhat 

 shining. Whorls about 5, or a trifle less, convex, the sutures well- 

 impressed. The spire is rather slender, acute at the apex. Aperture 

 about one-half the total leno-th of the shell or a little less, ovate, 

 angular above, broadly rounded beneath ; peristome adnate to the 

 whorl above the umbilicus. 



Alt, 4, diam 2.8 mill. 



Spivey's Lake, Navarro Co., Texas. 



This species is most nearly allied to A. cincinnatiensis Anth.. but 

 is smaller, more slender, more narrowly perforate, the whorls, es- 

 pecially the last, less convex, more sloping above. The spire of 

 A. peracuta is longer, the jieristome is adherent to the body-whorl 

 for a greater distance, and is not thickened within. The peculiar 

 dentition of A. cincinnatiensis is shared by this species. 



The types were collected by Mr. G. C. Heron, and sent me by 

 Mr. Bryant Walker of Detroit. Mich., under the above mss. name. 

 I have received the same shell from Comal Co., collected by Mr. 

 Singley. 

 Spheerium (Limosina) singley i Pilsbry. PI. Ill, figs. 14, 15. 



This is a small species allied to S. meridionale, S. maculatum, S. 

 cubense, etc. The shell is small, inequilateral, wide and truncate 

 posteriorly, narrower and rounded anteriorly, ventral margin gently 

 curved, the hinge line curved a little less than the lower outline ; 

 beaks small, not calyculate. Surface shining, striatulate. Color cor- 

 neous yellow, variegated with large and small irregular maculations 

 of blackish-brown. The blotches seem to be composed of close clusters 

 of dots. 



Length 5, alt. (at the beaks) Si, diam. 2 mill. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Cedar Creek, Hudson Co. (G. C. Heron) and Guadalupe River, 

 Comal Co., Texas. (J. A. Singley.) 



The shells from Comal Co. are smaller than the specimen figured, 

 but are precisely the same in form and coloration. S. cubense is a 

 differently-proportioned shell, its valves are more convex, and the 

 dark spots are small. 



S. meridionale and S. maculatum have similar large color-blotches, 

 but they are both decidedly larger species and differ from S. singleyi 

 in outline. This is the first species of the group Limosina which 

 has been found within the borders of the United States. 




90 proceedings of the academy of [1889. 



April 9. 



Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger in the chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



The death of Prof. M. 0. Chevreul, a correspondent, was an- 

 nounced. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



NEW SPECIES OF SHELLS FROM NEW HEBRIDES. 

 BY W. D. HARTMAN, M. D. 



Charis bicolor, Nobis. PI. V, fig. 1, 1 a. 



Shell ovate, rather thin, translucent, smooth, lines of growth fine ; 

 whorls 4i, strongly convex, the last ovate and much inflated ; spire 

 short conoid, of a red saffron color ; body-whorl a soiled white, with 

 traces of a brown epidermis ; aperture ovate, direct ; labium re- 

 flected and thickened ; a heavy deposit on the columella with a 

 broad fold over the umbilicus, but not concealing it; labium a 

 dull silvery white or red for one-fourth of an inch within the aper- 

 ture, which is white. 



Alt. 31 to 41, diam. 19 ; aperture, alt. 20, breadth 11 mill. 



Habitat, Aura Island, N. Hebrides. 



E. L. Layard, Esqr. 



06s. This species is near C. ochrostomvs Garrett. All ex- 

 amnles received thus far are weatherbeaten. 



x 



Charis Rossiteri, Nobis. PI. V, fig. 2, 2 a. 



Shell acutely ovate, thin and translucent ; whorls 4j, convex, the 

 last elongate-ovate; apical whorls acute, the first 2i of a reddish, 

 saffron color ; epidermis brown fugacious, with darker striations ; 

 body-whorl white beneath the epidermis ; aperture ovate, direct, 

 white ; labium thin and reflected, with a slight deposit on the col- 

 umella and a broad fold over the compressed umbilicus, but not 

 concealing it. 



Alt. 38, diam. 16 ; aperture, alt. 20, breadth 9 mill. 



Habitat, Aura Island, N. Hebrides. 



E. L. Layard, Esqr. 



Obs. A smaller species than the preceding. 



Oxychona Layardi, Nobis. PI. V, fig. 3. 



Shell acutely conical, imperforate; whorls 7, the four apical 

 whorls slightly rounded, translucent and a pale reddish color ; 

 lower whorls flat, the last acutely carinate at the periphery; lab- 

 ium simple and slightly reflected, with an acute notch at the outer 

 margin; aperture subquadrate, of a pale color; color white, with 

 flecks and zigzagged lines of gray ; two black thread-like lines with 

 a brown one between on the basal carina, extending to the third 

 whorl, and visible within the aperture ; color of the base a dusky 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



white, with numerous radii of a darker color, extending from the 

 closed unbilicus to the periphery. 



Alt. 16, diam. 16 ; aperture, alt. 4, breadth 7 mill. 



Habitat, Aura Island, N. Hebrides. 



Obs. I have much pleasure in dedicating this beautiful and 

 unique species to H. B. M. Consul, E. L. Layard, Esqr., of Noumea, 

 N. Caledonia, to whom conchologists are indebted, for many new 

 species from various sections of the world. 



Melania Auroriana, Nobis. PI. V, fig. 4. 



Shell thick, very elongate, ovate conic, decollate ; whorls 10 or 

 more, smooth and slightly convex ; body whorl somewhat inflated ; 

 a few sparse revolving striae at the base, often continued to the 

 apex ; color dark olivaceous, lighter at the apex ; aperture white, 

 ovate, round at base and expanded, a heavy white deposit on the 

 pillar lip. Opercle black, thick, with the polar point very near 

 the base. 



Alt. 56, diam. 14; aperture, alt. 18, breadth 9h mill. 



Habitat, Aurora Island, IS". Hebrides. 



From E. L. Layard, Esqr. 



Melania Schmacheri, Nobis. PI. V, fig. 5. 



Shell attenuately conical, rather thick, color dark greenish, 

 lighter at the suture, decollate; whorls probably 8 or 9, all but the 

 two lower with elevated longitudinal ribs, which are decussated by 

 impressed spiral striae, giving the surface a granulated appearance; 

 the two lower whorls have the incised spiral striae continued from 

 the base with the interspaces smooth ; outer lip sharp and sinuous ; 

 columella with a narrow white deposit and a moderately twisted 

 aperture, oval, white ; opercle sub-triangular, corneous, chestnut 

 brown, with the polar point near the base. 



H. 43, W. 15, apt. 17, W. apt. 15 mill. 



Hab. Hamma Island, near Hong-Kong, China. 



This shell was sent me for 31. cremdaris Desh. by Mr. Schmacher. 

 It is a smaller shell than cremdaris which is from the Philippines, 

 but resembles it somewhat in sculpture. 



Diplomorpha Brazieri, Nobis. PI. V, fig. 6. 



Shell dexal, thin, abbreviately ovate; whorls 4, rounded ; body 

 whorl inflated, more than half the length ; suture well impressed ; 

 umbilicus open ; aperture perpendicular, ovate; lip slightly reflected ; 

 apex and aperture reddish orange; surface with coarse longitudinal 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



striae; epidermis absent, H. 19, W. 12, apt. 14, D. apt, 9 mill., Hab. 

 Aura. Island, E. L. Layard, Esqr. 



Obs. Certainly distinct from D. de Latouri from the same Island. 

 All examples received are destitute of epidermis. 



Trochomorpha convexa, Nobis. PI. V. fig. 7. 



Shell sub-lenticular, thin, very convex above; whorls six, convex 

 above and beneath, acutely carinate, finely and transversely striate; 

 base smooth ; umbilicus perspective one-sixth the diameter of the 

 shell ; aperture oblique; peritreme simple ; color reddish brown with 

 a narrow darker line on the carina ; H. 7, D. 12 J, H. apt, 2A, D. 

 apt, 6 mill. Hab. Aura Island, New Hebrides, E. L. Layard. 



Obs. A more stout, convex shell, with more whorls than T. ru- 

 bens from the same Island. 



Helicina Bourailensis, Nobis. PI. V. fig. 8. 



Shell thin and translucent, depressly conoid ; base convex; spire 

 subacute ; whorls 5, striate with fine oblique lines of growth, which are 

 decussated by strong-spiral striae; suture linear, impressed; basal 

 callus white, thin, and minutely foveate ; aperture sub-ovate, very 

 oblique; peritreme augulated at its junction with the short colum- 

 ella; outer lip slightly thickened ; suborbicular; color a pale yellow 

 or reddish ; color of the aperture partaking of the color of the shell. 



Height 3, diam 5 mill. 



Hab. Bourail Island, N. Caledonia. E. L. Layard, Esqr. 



Helicina Nehoueensis, Nobis. PI. V. fig. 9. 



Shell thin, polished, depressly conoid, convex beneath; spire sub- 

 acute; whorls 5; lines of growth fine, decussated above and beneath 

 by very fine interrupted spiral striae, in V-shaped fasciculi ; suture 

 linear, impressed ; aperture sub-oval, very oblique, of a reddish 

 color; lip white, thin and slightly reflected; peritreme augulated 

 with the short columella; color pale reddish brown, darker beneath ; 

 callous thin, silvery white and corrugated. Height 2? to 4, wide, 

 4 to 6 mill. 



Hab. Nehoue, New Caledonia. 



E. L. Layard, Esqr. 



Helicina Saxoniana, Nobis. PI. V, fig. HI. 



Shell thin, depressed conoid, convex beneath; whorls 4, rounded 

 above ; suture impressed ; lines of growth regular, parallel and very 

 fine, which are decussated by interrupted sph'al striae; spire sub- 

 acute; aperture sub-triangular, oblique, pale reddish ; lip thin, white 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



and foveate; callous thin, white; peristome angulated at its junction 

 with the short columella; color reddish brown. Opercle sub-trian- 

 gular, reddish 



Height 3, wide 5, mill. 



Hab. West Coast, N. Caledonia. 



Obs. Mr. Saxon, per E. L. Layard, Esqr. 



Another example marked No. 1, Chalcei, N. Caledonia, is prob- 

 ably the same species. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



April 16. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" A contribution to the Spider fauna of the Bermuda Islands," 

 by Dr. Geo. Marx. 



"Notes on a small collection of Myriapods from the Bermuda 

 Islands," by Charles H. Bollman. 



" A contribution to the Actinology of the Bermudas," by J. 

 Playfair McMurrich, Ph. D. 



" On some new species of Mollusca from the Bermuda Islands," 

 by Angelo Heilprin. 



A Parasitic Copepod. — Prof. Leidy remarked that last summer 

 while at Beach Haven, N. J., there was brought to him from the 

 surf a living specimen of the singular, transparent fish Leptoeephalus. 

 In examining it he observed attached to the tail-fin a minute cope- 

 pod crustacean, apparently of the genus Chalimus. The parasite 

 was attached by a long filiform rostrum and resembled in this and 

 other respects more the Chalimus eeomberi, as represented by Baird, 

 in fig. 5, tab. xxxiii, of the British Entomostraca, than it does the 

 original of this species as represented by Burmeister in the Nova 

 Acta N. C. of Bonn, xvii, tab. 23, fig. 13. The species which may 

 -. be distinguished as Chalimus tenuis is considerably less 



\ than half the size of C scomberi. The cephalothorax 



nearly twice the length of the breadth, is obcordate and 

 proportionately much narrower than in the latter species. 

 The frontal segment is narrow and not prominent laterally, 

 and the biarticulate antennae are concealed beneath. 

 The abdomen, half the length of the cephalothorax, ex- 

 hibits three conspicuous divisions, and the short caudal 

 appendages end in three minute setae. Abdominal feet 

 ending in biramous leaf-like segments fringed with short 

 setae. Rostrum linear and almost as long as the cephalo- 

 thorax. Whole length 1.125 mm; length of cephalo- 

 thorax 0.5 mm ; breadth 0.275 ; length of rostrum 10.5 ; 

 length of abdomen 0.25 mm. 



The accompanying outline represents the animal mag- 

 nified fortv-four diameters. 




96 proceedings of the academy of [1889. 



April 23. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



A paper entitled "On a new genus and two new species of 

 Ophiurans," by J. E. Ives, was presented for publication. 



Fossil Vertebrates from Florida. — Dr. Leidy exhibited some re- 

 mains of Zeuglodon recently obtained by Mr. Joseph Willcox, from 

 a quarry of nummulitic limestone, near Ocala, Marion Co., Florida. 

 They consist of a portion of the mandible with the mutilated re- 

 mains of two two-fanged molars, embedded in a mass of the lime- 

 stone, portions of several vertebrae and the crown of an anterior tooth. 

 They pertain to a large but immature animal, probably the Z. 

 cetoides In a crevice of the same quarry there was found an ac- 

 cumulation of bones of quaternary age. Among those preserved 

 and obtained by Mr. Willcox, was the skull of the Machairodus 

 described a few weeks ago, a number of teeth of a horse, the tooth 

 of a llama, and a premolar of the Elephas columbi. 



While in Florida Mr. Willcox, with his friend Wm. M. Meigs,visited 

 Arcadia, on Peace Creek, Avhere, through the kindness of Mr. T. S. 

 Morehead, superintendent of the Phosphate Mining Company, they 

 procured the collection of fossils now exhibited. They mainly con- 

 sist of the vertebra? of several small cetaceans, many teeth of a 

 horse not differing from those of the domestic animal, fragments of 

 deer antlers, of bones of other animals, and of turtle shells, teeth of 

 sharks, &c. Among them are some well-preserved teeth of a tapir, 

 Tapirus americanus. On a former occasion, through the Smith- 

 sonian Institution, from the Peace Creek locality, a collection was 

 received chiefly consisting of remains of a huge turtle and molar 

 teeth and the ramus of a mandible with a tooth of the Elephas 

 columbi. 



A specimen of particular interest in the collection under inspec- 

 tion is a first ungual phalanx or pastern bone of a diminutive three- 

 toed horse Hippotherium or Hipparion. It accords in size with an 

 upper molar tooth, from Archer, Fl., on which was founded 

 H. ingenuum, described in the Proceedings for 1885, p. 33. The 

 bone not much larger and nearly of the proportions of the corres- 

 ponding joint of our own middle finger indicates an animal of un- 

 usually slender build. Since describing the remains from Archer, 

 on which was founded the larger species, H. plicatile, in the Pro- 

 ceedings for 1887, p. 309, a pastern bone attributable to it has been 

 received from the same locality. It is actually shorter but of much 

 more robust form than that from Peace Creek, referred to H. in- 

 genuum. The comparative measurements of the two pasterns are as 

 follows : — 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



H. ingenuum. H. plieatile. 



Length of pastern laterally 57 mm. 50 mm. 



Transverse width of proximal extremity 24 " 34 " 



distal " 19 " 28 " 



shaft, at middle 15 " 25 " 



The specimens of greatest interest in the Peace Creek collection 

 are three osseous plates, attributable to a species of the wonderful 

 giant armadillo, Glyptodon. The plates though possessing the usual 

 breadth, do not present the great proportionate thickness common 

 in the South American Glyptodons. They bear a near resemblance 

 to those of Hoplophorus ornatus, as represented by Dr. Burmeister 

 in the Annals of the Public Museum of Buenos Ayres, 1870-74, pi. 

 xvii, fig. 3. Two of the plates are hexagonal, the other pentagonal, 

 and their thickness is from a fifth to a fourth of their breadth. The 

 outer surface presents a low discoid eminence reaching to within a 

 couple of lines of the border, feebly depressed concentrically and 

 with a slight eccentric elliptical prominence. It is pitted ; more 

 coarsely at the depressed borders, and more thickly and coarsely in 

 the pentagonal than in the hexagonal plates. The inner surface is 

 concave and even ; the borders are tubercular. 



The largest hexagonal plate is 26 lines in its widest and 18 lines 

 in its shortest diameter, and is from 4 to 5 lines thick. The pen- 

 tagonal plate is 22 lines where widest and from 3 to oh lines thick. 

 The species represented by the plates may be distinguished as the 

 Glyptodon septentrionalis. 



Among the fragments of turtle shells is the nuchal plate of a 

 carapace remarkable for its deeply sculptured character, greatly ex- 

 ceeding in this respect the condition observed in any of our recent 

 ones. The areas of the different scutes impressing the plate are 

 traversed by deep valleys and correspondingly prominent ridges. 

 The median length of the plate is 27 lines ; its transverse breadth 

 33 lines. The specimen may be considered as distinctive of a spe- 

 cies with the name of Emys euglypha. 



April 30. 



Mr. Isaac C. Martindale in the chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



Messrs. Charles E. Redinauer and W. B. Van^Lennep, M. D., 

 were elected members. 



Max Furbringer, of Jena, was elected a correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



A CONTRIBUTION TO THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE SPIDER FAUNA 

 OF THE BERMUDA ISLANDS. 



BY DR. GEO. MARX. 



Little has been heretofore known of the spider fauna of the 

 Bermudas. Mr. Black wall described six species in the Ann. and 

 Mag. of Nat, Hist., 1868 ; and Prof. E. Simon, in speaking of the 

 Arachnida of the Atlantic Islands in the Annales d. 1. Soc. Entom. 

 de France, 1883, has none to add to the list of Mr. Blackwall. He, 

 however, alludes to the character of the Bermuda spider fauna as 

 appearing to be related to that of the Azores and the Canary 

 Islands. 



Lately, Prof. Angelo Heilprin, of Philadelphia, visited the 

 Bermudas and collected there twelve species, and by his kindness I 

 have been able to study this addition to the spider fauna of that 



region. 



Mr. Blackwall described the following species : 



1. Loxosceles rufescens, Luc. 



2. Epeira gracilipes, Blackw. 



3. Xysticus pallidus, Blackw. 



4. Salticus diversus, Blackw. 



5. Heteropoda venatoria, Lin. 



6. Filistata depressa, Koch. 



The collection of Prof. Heilprin contains the following species : 



1 . Uloborus Zosis, "Walk. 



2. Xephila clavipes, Koch. 



3. Epeira caudata, Hentz. 



4. Epeira labyrinthea, Hentz. 



5. Theridium tepidariorum, Koch. 



6. Argyrodes nephilce, Taez. 



7. Pholcus tipuloides, Koch. 



8. Dysdera crocata, Koch. 



9. Menemerus Paykidlii, Aud. 



10. Menemerus melanognathus, Luc. 



11. Heteropoda venatoria, Lin. 



12. Lycosa atlantica, now spec. 



Loxosceles rufescens, Luc, has been found in the "West Indies, 

 Central America and Florida. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



Heteropoda venatoria, Lin., seems to occur, under a certain 

 latitude, everywhere around the globe.* 



Filistuta depressa, synonymous (according to Simon) with F'distata 

 capitata, Hentz, is quite common in the southern part of the United 

 States. 



Uloborus Zosis, Walk., is recorded from the West India Islands, 

 Central and South America, and occurs also sometimes in Southern 

 Florida. 



Nephila clavipes, Koch, found in Brazil, Central America and 

 Florida, Texas, Mississippi. 



Eperia caudata, Hentz, inhabits the United States from 

 Massachusetts to Georgia. 



Epeira labyrinthea, Hentz, is also common in the United States, 

 and has been collected in the West Indies, Central and South 

 America, as far south as the Straits of Magellan, and in Lower and 

 Upper California. 



Theridium tepidariorum, Koch, is common to Europe and 

 America. 



Argyrodes nephilce, reported from Peru, Cayenne and the southern 

 states of the United States. 



Pholcus tipuloides, Koch, has been described by this author in his 

 work, " Die Arachniden Australiens," page 281, from specimens 

 collected at the Samoa Islands. 



Dysdera crocata, Koch, is recorded from Greece, France and 

 Germany, and is also common in the United States. 



Menemerus Paykullii, Aud., and Menevxerus melanognathus, Luc, 

 have been found nearly everywhere on the globe. 



From this material it is difficult to infer the true character of the 

 fauna of these Islands. The frequent arrival of vessels from many 

 foreign ports, the drift of the Gulf Stream, and other causes, have 

 introduced into this region a number of species originally foreign 

 to that locality,, but which, in time, not only have acclimatized 

 themselves, but have, in a more or less marked degree, driven away 

 and extinguished the indigenous spider fauna. 



This fact has been noticed in all localities open to the importation 

 of a foreign element. These species are then called cosmopolitan, 

 and by far the greatest number of those brought to notice by 

 Mr. Blackwall and Prof. Heilprin bear this character; but drawing 



*See an article by Rev. H. C. McCook, in Proceed, of Academy uf Nat. Sc. 

 Philad., 1878. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889- 



a superficial conclusion from this material it seems that the spider 

 fauna of the Bermudas is more American than anything else, for 

 out of the seventeen species now known, only four are original (so 

 far) to these Islands and nine are found also in the limits of the 

 United States. 



Lycosa atlantica, nov. spec. 



Cephalothorax dark olivaceous brown, with a narrow, longitudinal 

 yellow band over the middle, which begins at the posterior margin 

 and runs over the whole length into the region of the first eye row. 

 Another, equally colored, but somewhat broader band runs at the 

 sides, above the lateral margin, terminating at the sides of the pars 

 cephalica. Mandibles dark brown with long, thick and black 

 pubescence. Maxillre and labium more reddish brown ; sternum 

 lighter, olivaceous yellow with a lighter border, hairy. Palpi and 

 legs uniformly light olivaceous yellow, with black hairs and 

 without rings or markings, tarsal joints of the former infuscated. 

 Abdomen : dorsum dark olivaceous brown with a narrow, whitish 

 slightly spear-shaped figure, which is edged by a very narrow 

 blackish line; behind this a row of four rather indistinct white 

 small round spots which reach the apex. Venter light yellow, 

 middle region still lighter. 



Cephalothorax as long as patella X, tibia IV; one-third longer than 

 wide ; back straight evenly sloping in back and front, face nearly 

 perpendicular. Lower eye row longer than second. Middle eyes 

 of lower row about twice as large as the lateral eyes. Distance 

 between the large eyes of the second row smaller than their 

 diameter ; eyes of the third row as large as middle ones of the first 

 row. Mandibles as long as tibia III. Cephalothorax long, 6 mm. ;. 

 broad, 4*5 in the middle region ; in front, 2*2. 



Abdomen, long, 6 mm. Mandibles, 2*7. 

 Femur I 4 Patella 2 Tibia 33 Metatarsus 2-8 



II 3-8 "2 "3 " 2-7 



III 3-4 " 1-8 " 2-8 " 3 

 " IV 5 " 21 "4 " 5-5 



Explanation of Plate IV. 



Fig. 1. Uhborus Zosh, Walk. Female. 



l.a, Abdomen from the side. 



l.b. Epigynum. 



I.e. Male palpus. 

 Fig. 2. Menemerus Paykullii, And. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



2.a. Male palpus. 



2.1). Epigynum. 

 Fig. 3. Menemerus melanognathus, Luc. 



3. a. Male palpus from above. 



3.b. Male palpus from below. 

 Fig. 4. Lycosa atlantica, nov. spec, Epigynum. 



Fig. 5. Pholus tipuloides, Koch. 



5. a. frons. 



5.b. Epigynum and lungs. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



A CONTRIBUTION TO THE ACTINOLOGY OF THE BERMUDAS. 

 BY J. PLAYFAIR MCMURRICH, PH. D. 



I recently received from Professor Heilprin a number of Actinians 

 which he had collected in the summer of 1888, during a visit to the 

 Bermuda Islands. They were entrusted to me for identification and 

 study, and I gladly availed myself of the opportunity thus afforded 

 of comparing the Actinian fauna of the Bermudas with that of the 

 Bahamas, which I had previously studied* I may state here that, 

 so far as can be judged from the material studied, there is very great 

 similarity between the two faunas, most of the species from the Ber- 

 mudas occurring also either in the Bahamas or in the West Indian 

 Islands. Unfortunately it was impossible to adopt the best 

 methods of preserving the material obtained in the Bermudas, the 

 expedition to the islands having been undertaken mainly for geo- 

 logical purposes, and consequently the specific relationships of some 

 of the forms could not be determined with perfect certainty. 



Tribe HEXACTINI^. 



Sub- tribe ACTININAL. 



Family SAGARTIDJE. 



1. Aiptasia. sp? (PI. VI, figs. 1 and 2.) 



In the collection were four specimens of a form which I refer to 

 the genus Aiptasia, inasmuch as in the majority of respects they 

 resemble forms of that genus, although it was impossible to ascer- 

 tain the presence of an equatorial row of cinclides owing to the 

 ectoderm having been almost completely macerated away. Nema- 

 tocysts were quite abundant in the macerated substance contained 

 in the inter- and intra-mesenterial chambers, but it was not possible 

 to be certain that they belonged to acontia though such was proba- 

 bly the case. 



The specimens are about 1 cm. in length and 0.65 cm. in diameter. 

 The color as ascertained from the alcoholic material is in the upper 

 one-third of the column and in the tentacles grass-green, while the 

 rest of the column presents the dirty grayish-brown color frequent 

 in alcoholic specimens. About one-third of the way down the col- 



*Sve Journal of Morphology, vol. iii. This paper is now in print and will 

 shortly appear. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



umn each specimen presents a well-marked constriction, below which 

 the column is cylindrical, while above it it gradually expands, the 

 disc not being; at all infolded in contraction. The base is 

 evidently adherent, but in two of the specimens it is much 

 smaller than the column, and is almost covered by the infolding of 

 the column walls over it ; this apparently, however, is an abnormal 

 condition. The column is smooth, and no traces of cinclides could 

 be seen as stated above. Sections (PI. VI, fig. 2) show that the mes- 

 ogloea is thin throughout, and that the circular muscles (cm) are 

 only feebly developed. There is a special sphincter (sp) imbedded 

 in the mesogloea, immediately below the margin, and, though not 

 very powerful, is yet quite apparent. The only species of Aiptasia 

 in which such a sphincter has been observed as yet is A. pallida of 

 our Eastern coast. Immediately below this the mesoglceal muscular 

 processes which support the circular muscles are weak, but further 

 down they enlarge gradually and form a second sphincter (sp 1 ) sim- 

 ilar to what has been described by R. Hertwig 1 in Leiotealia nym- 

 phcea. It is to the presence of this lower sphincter that the con- 

 traction of the column mentioned above is due. 



The tentacles are 48 in number and are arranged in four cycles. 

 They are strongly entacma?ous, and are not infolded during contrac- 

 tion. Those of the first cycle measure 1.1 cm, and those of the outer- 

 most cycle 0.3 cm. The ectodermal and endodermal muscular 

 processes are present, but do not call for a special description. The 

 disc is flat and the stomatodaeum is without well-marked gonidial 

 angles ; sections show that the grooves are hardly developed. 



The mesenteries are in four cycles. The six pairs of the first 

 cycle are alone perfect ; those of the second cycle are shorter but 

 provided with well-developed longitudinal muscles and while neither 

 those of the third nor those of the fourth cycle have the longitudinal 

 muscles, the members of the latter cycle not projecting above the sur- 

 face of the endoderm. The parieto-basilar muscles seem to be want- 

 ing, or at least have no marked mesogloeal processes. The repro- 

 ductive organs are borne by the mesenteries of the second cycle, and 

 also by those of the first cycle (except the directives) below the in- 

 ternal opening of the stomatoda?um. This is the only Sagartid, with 

 the exception of A. pallida, in which I have observed reproductive 

 organs on the mesenteries of the first cycle, and it is a case of con- 



1 A'. Htrtwig — Report on the Actiniaria. Zoology of the voyage of H. M. S. 

 Challenger. Vol. vi. Pt. xv, 1882. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



siderable importance inasmuch as it necessitates an alteration in the 

 definition of the family Sagartidse as given by R. Hertwig 1 One of 

 the essentials of the family is that " the principal septa, or septa of 

 the first order, only are perfect and at the same time sterile." The 

 last portion of this statement, though true for the majority of Sag- 

 artidse, fails in the case of the Aiptasise mentioned. It is not possi- 

 ble to separate Aiptasia from the Sagartidse; the members of the 

 genus possess acontia, cinclides, the primary mesenteries alone per- 

 fect, and a mesodermal muscle in some cases, and these must be 

 considered as the chief characteristics of the family. 



As regards the species to which the form under consideration be- 

 longs, the probabilities are that it is identical with A. pallida of our 

 Eastern coast, since in its anatomical peculiarities it agrees very 

 closely with that form. The impossibility however of ascertaining 

 the coloration, and, what is of much more importance, the occurence 

 and arrangement of the cinclides, have prevented a certain identifi- 

 cation and I have preferred to leave the species in doubt. 



Family ANTHEADiE. 



2. Condylactis passiflora. Duch. and Mich. (Plate vi, fig. 3.) 



Several specimens were obtained of a large form, measuring 3.3 

 -2.3 cm. in height and 2.6-3.8 cm. in diameter when preserved, which 

 resembled in coloration, external characters, and for the most part 

 in internal structure also, the West Indian form Condylactis passi- 

 flora. In the alcoholic specimens the column is of a brick-red color 

 wherever the ectoderm has been preserved, and the tentacles are 

 grass-green, this color evidently being due to the enormous number 

 of zooxanthellse contained in the endoderm. Professor Heilprin 

 informs me to the best of his recollection the tentacles in the living 

 specimens were as a rule tipped with crimson. In a separate bottle 

 is a single specimen evidently identical with the others, and accom- 

 panying it is a note stating that the column was red and the tenta- 

 cles brown. This specimen was found freely floating near the sur- 

 face, but had evidently become detached as its base shows that 

 normally it is an attached form. 



The ectoderm having been macerated away, the outer surface of 

 the mesogloea is exposed to view, and is seen to be divided by fine 

 longitudinal and transverse grooves into small quadrangular areas. 

 These grooves are continued over the limbus upon the surface of 



1 Loc. cit. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



the base, the longitudinal grooves there becoming radiating and 

 the transverse ones concentric. 



The only character which is markedly different from what occurs 

 in the West Indian specimens of the species is presented by the 

 longitudinal muscles of the mesenteries. The middle portion of a 

 section through the muscle-band presents an appearance quite similar 

 to that to be seen in the West Indian form, and the internal edge is 

 also the same, the long mesogloeal processes terminating abruptly, 

 and being followed by smaller processes which extend to the com- 

 mencement of the reproductive region of the mesentery; but to- 

 ward the insertion of the mesenteries into the column wall the ar- 

 rangement is slightly different (PI. VI, fig. 3). In the Bahama speci- 

 mens the mesogloea between the outer edge of the muscle-band and 

 the insertion of the mesentery into the column wall is thin, and the 

 muscle-band gradually thins out externally. In the Bermuda forms, 

 however, the longitudinal muscle begins abruptly, and the mesogloea 

 external to it is thick with short, stout muscle processes ; or, as in the 

 directives, with the muscle cells, instead of appearing to cover proc- 

 esses, presenting rather the appearance of here and there dipping 

 down slightly into the mesogloea. 



CI? * o 



It is not probable however that this slight difference is to be re- 

 garded as specific, and since in other respects there is almost exact 

 correspondence, the Bermuda forms must be considered identical- 

 with those from the Bahamas. 



Family PHYLLACTIDiE. 



Some points of considerable importance as regards the character- 

 istic structure of the members of this family have been obtained from 

 the study of the two forms which I include here within it. The 

 family was established by Andres 1 for forms in which the disc is 

 furnished towards the center with simple tentacles and towards the 

 periphery with foliaceous fronds. In one of the forms about to be 

 described the fronds are replaced by short digitiform tentacles ar- 

 ranged in a single cycle, but nevertheless it agrees in other struct- 

 ural points with Oulactis, and I have therefore found it necessary to 

 alter the definition of the family, placing importance on internal 

 anatomical structures rather than upon external characteristics. 



In the first place in the Oulactis about to be described, and in Di- 

 plactis, as I propose to name the genus to which the form with tentacles 



1 A. Andrei. Le Amnio. Fauna un I -Flora des Golfes von Neapel Mono- 

 giaplne ix. 1883. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



replacing the fronds will be referred, a sphincter of the diffuse type is 

 present, but instead of being situated upon the column wall below 

 the margin, it occurs internal to the margin, between the inner ten- 

 tacles and the peripheral fronds or tentacles. In 0. floa- 

 culifera from the Bahamas this sphincter was not observed, but was 

 probably overlooked in the single specimen I obtained for study, 

 and none of the preparations which I still possess include the region 

 in which the sphincter should occur. Secondly in the two species 

 of Oulactis which I have studied, and in the Diplactis, the gonidial 

 grooves are very deep and are prolonged a considerable distance be- 

 low the inner margin of the stomatodseum ; the histological structure 

 also of the ectoderm lining the grooves diners slightly from that of 

 the general surface of the stomatodseum, it is not thrown into folds 

 as it is elsewhere, and the mesogloea of the grooves is thickened. 



I would define the family Phyllactidse as follows : — Actinina? in 

 which the disc is furnished with simple tentacles towards the center 

 and with a cycle of short digitiform tentacles or more or less folia- 

 ceous fronds towards the periphery; a sphincter of the diffuse type 

 occurs upon the inner surface of the disc between the inner tentacles 

 and the outer tentacles or fronds ; and the stomatodseum is provided 

 with two deep gonidial grooves which are prolonged some distance 

 below the inner extremity of the stomatodseum. 



The family Phyllactidse was placed by Andres in the suborder 

 (family) Stichodactylinse, the fronds being considered homologous 

 with tentacles. I have here ventured to remove the family to the 

 suborder Actininse, and it will be necessary to furnish my reasons 

 for such a change. The tentacles must necessarily be considered 

 outgrowths of the disc, since structurally they resemble it closely 

 while differing greatly from the column. Are the fronds also disc 

 structures? 



The question turns upon what we shall consider to be the limit 

 between the disc and the column. The majority of authors have 

 taken a more or less distinct fold of the body wall, the margin, fre- 

 quently furnished with conspicuous acrorhagi, to be the boundary, 

 and certainly in many cases there seems to be a marked difference on 

 either side of this fold. Thus the column may, as in Bunodes and 

 Phymactis, be tuberculated as far as the margin, but beyond this the 

 tubercles cease, and there is apparently a decided difference between 

 the region below and that above the limiting fold. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



In the Sagartidse and Paractidse there is imbedded in the column 

 wall below the margin a sphincter muscle. In other forms, however, 

 such as the Bunodidse, which possess a circumscribed endodermal 



sphincter, that structure lies internal to the margin. If we assume 

 with the Hertwigs that the sphincter is a columnar structure its 

 situation in the Bunodidse would indicate that the margin is not the 

 boundary between the disc and column. 



Neither the margin nor the sphincter, however, can be considered 

 the morphological boundary of the disc, since both seem to vary 

 somewhat in position. The true criterion is to be found in the dif- 

 ference of histological structure presented by the disc and column 

 ectoderm. This layer in the disc possesses ectodermal muscle-cells 

 and a nerve-layer, which structures are absent in the column. The 

 tentacles resembling the disc in structure are to be considered out- 

 growths of that region, and passing outward from these one finds 

 that the characteristic structures of the disc gradually fade out and 

 are lost. It is impossible to say just where the change is completed, 

 but the region in which it occurs must be considered the boundary 

 between the disc and column. In Bunodes tceniatua and Aulactinia 

 ■stelloides I find that the sphincter muscles lie beneath the outer bor- 

 der of this indifferent region, and are consequently to be regarded as 

 columnar structures. 



In the Phyllacticke the sphincter muscle lies between the tenta- 

 cles and the fronds, and although the ectoderm in the region in which 

 it occurred, and in the area between the fronds or their representa- 

 tives and the margin was completely macerated away in the forms 

 studied, yet reasoning from the relations of the sphincter in other 

 forms we must conclude that the region between the margin and the 

 base of the tentacles is columnar, and that the fronds and outer dig- 

 ititbrm tentacles are column structures perhaps comparable to 

 acrorhagi, and cannot be considered homologous with tentacles. 

 Accordingly only one tentacle belongs to each intra-mesenterial 

 space, and the Phyllactidae must be referred to the sub-order Aetinime. 



Andres in the introduction to his Monograph, notes the fact that 

 the margin does not always mark the boundary between the disc 

 and the column. He proposes the term " collar " to denote the por- 

 tion of the column internal to the margin. Gosse's term " fosse " is 

 not applicable in all cases, as for instance in Condylactis where the 

 region does not form a depression, but is horizontal. 




108 • PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



3. Oulactis fasciculata. n. sp. (PL VI, fig. 5.) 



By this name I denote three specimens in various degrees of con- 

 traction, the largest of which measured about 1 cm. in height and 

 1-2 cm. in breadth. The color, as ascertained from alcoholic speci- 

 mens, is in the lower part of the column a grayish-brown similar to 

 what is frequently seen in preserved Actininse, while the upper part 

 of the column and the fronds are of a grass-green, the tentacles re- 

 sembling somewhat the lower part of the column, but having a dis- 

 tinctly greenish tinge. 



The column is provided in its upper part with about 48 vertical 

 series of tubercles, probably verruca?, there being about five or six 

 in each series, and is thrown into numerous transverse folds the re- 

 sult of contraction. The mesogloea, when exposed, appears to be 

 raised into numerous minute elevations, whereby the surface acquires 

 a finely punctured appearance. 



The tentacles are moderately long, simple and pointed at the ex- 

 tremity. They appear to be arranged in two cycles, and from a 

 necessarily uncertain count I estimate their number to be about 

 forty-eight. Their ectodermal longitudinal muscle layer is well de- 

 veloped, being arranged on long slender mesogloeal processes. The 

 fronds (PI. VI, fig. 5, fr.) are small, yet occupy the entire width of the 

 area between the tentacles and the apparent margin. They consist 

 of hollow evaginations of the disc, arranged in bunches. I could not 

 determine with certainty their number in any of the specimens, but 

 there are probably twenty-four of them in all. A well-defined 

 margin is present. 



Immediately external to the bases of the tentacles, and lying be- 

 tween them and the fronds there is an endodermal sphincter (sp.) 

 fairly well developed. Immediately external to it, in the region oc- 

 cupied by the fronds and for a slight distance down the column-wall 

 below the margin, there are no muscle processes, but further down 

 they do occur, forming what might be termed a second sphincter, 

 though it is by no means well developed. The surface of the disc 

 between the tentacles and the mouth is deeply depressed so that a 

 fosse is formed around the peristome. The mouth is large. Sec- 

 tions show that over the general surface of the stomatodreum the 

 mesogloea is very thin, and upon the ectodermal surface gives rise 

 to numerous more or less regularly arranged fine processes over which 

 the ectoderm passes so as to be thrown into numerous folds. The 

 gonidial grooves are deep, and are prolonged some distance below 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



the rest of the stomatodseum. Its mesogloea is much thickened, and 

 is devoid of processes upon its ectodermal surface, being thus strongly 

 contrasted with that of the stomatodseum. In its histology the 

 ectoderm of the groove also differs from that of the general stomato- 

 dseum, the glandular cells being evidently fewer in number, but the 

 preservation of the specimens was not sufficiently perfect to permit 

 the details to be made out. 



There are altogether twenty-four pairs of mesenteries, twelve of 

 which are perfect. The six primary pairs are united with the stom- 

 atodseum to a greater extent than are the six secondaries, and the 

 two pairs of directives have a much more extensive union than any 

 of the other primary mesenteries, owing to the great prolongation 

 of the gonidial grooves. The longitudinal muscle processes form a 

 strongly projecting though rather narrow band, the edges of which 

 are sharply defined, the processes being of equal length throughout 

 the muscular area and diminishing abruptly towards the sides. The 

 mesogloea of the portion of the mesenteries external to the muscle 

 bands is rather thick, and there is a strong parieto-basilar muscle. 

 Apparently only the mesenteries of the third cycle, i. e. the imper- 

 fect mesenteries, are gonophoric, but my preparations do not allow 

 of certainty on this point. 



A few remarks are called for concerning the relationships of this 

 species. I was at first tempted to identify it with 0. formosa 1 but 

 further consideration led me to separate it as a new species. The 

 fronds differ markedly from those of other species of Oalactis. In 

 these they have been described as being " chicoraces," a term which 

 cannot be applied to the fronds of O.fascicukda. In it they consist 

 of bunches of finger or club-shaped hollow processes, the various 

 processes of each bunch being united by their base but distinct 

 above. This arrangement suggested the specific term which I have 

 employed, and I think is of sufficient importance to warrant the forma- 

 tion of a new species. It was a question whether a new genus should 

 be instituted as VerrilP has done in the case of Lophactis omata, but 

 there is such close agreement with the Bahaman 0. flosculifera as 

 regards the internal structure, the number of perfect mesenteries, 

 and the distribution upon the mesenteries of the reproductive 



1 Duchassaing and Michelotli — Mem. Reale Accademia di Torino. 2nd Ser. 

 xix, 1860 and xxiii, 1866. 



2 Verrill A. E.— Trans. Conn. Acad. Vol. i, 1868. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



organs that such a proceeding was considered unnecessary. It seems 

 probable that the genus Lophactis should be fused with Oulactis. 



DIPLACTIS. Gen. nov. 



I propose this generic name for two species, one of which is des- 

 cribed below, which do not seem to be referable to any of the genera 

 now recognized. The genus maybe briefly defined as follows: — 

 Phyllactidse in which the fronds are represented by a single cycle of 

 short digitiform tentacles and in which all the mesenteries except 

 those of the first cycle are gonophoric. The term Diplactis has 

 been chosen as indicating the tentacular appearance of the fronds, 

 from which it seems as if there were two series of tentacles, an inner 

 and an outer (diplous, double and aktis, a ray). 



In the Supplementary Report on the Actiniaria collected by the 

 " Challenger," R. Hertwig describes a form whose locality is un- 

 known, which he refers to Gosse's genus Hormathia. It is very similar 

 to the form about to be described from the Bermudas, and there can 

 be no doubt that though specifically distinct the two must be referred 

 to the same genus. Gosse's Hormathia 1 was described from a single 

 specimen brought up on a deep-sea fishing line, and attached to the 

 shell of a living Fusils. It was characterized by possessing slightly 

 below the margin about ten spherical protrusions. I do not think 

 it is possible to associate in the same genus with this either the Ber- 

 muda Diplactis or Hertwig's Hormathia. In the first place in both 

 these forms the bodies near the margin are digitiform and not spheri- 

 cal ; and secondly, these bodies are situated not below the margin but 

 internal to it. In all the Bermuda specimens, of which there are 

 quite a large number, a well-marked margin is present and Hertwig 

 describes in his form a fold of the column-wall which must be con- 

 sidered equivalent to the margin of the other species. Although the 

 margin cannot be considered of importance as marking the bound- 

 ary of the disc, yet it is a structure of frequent occurrence and must 

 be taken account of. Structures that occur on the column-wall be- 

 low it, as in Hormathia, cannot be considered identical for systematic 

 purposes with others which invariably lie above or internal to it, and 

 are not quite similar in form. 



It must be noticed that Haddon has recently referred to Gosse's 

 Hormathia a form 2 altogether different from that assigned to it by 



1 P. H. Gosse. Actinologia Britannica. London. IStJO. 



2 A. C. Haddon. — On two species of Act'nise from the Mer^ui Archipelago. — 

 Journ. Linn. Soc. Vol. XXI. 1888. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



Hertwig. The correctness of Haddon's identification is quite as 

 doubtful as Hertwig's, if not a little more so. The form is certainly 

 a Sagartid and probably a Phellia, it being stated that it is very 

 similar to Hertwig's Phellia peetinata. 



Hertwig refers his Diplactis (Hormathia) delicatula to the family 

 Antheadce, on account of the diffuse endodermal nature of the 

 sphincter. The situation of the muscle and other characters make 

 it evident that Diplactis should be associated in the same family with 

 Oulactis. In the Phyllactidse as here limited we have several 

 grades of complication of the fronds. In Diplactis their structure is 

 exceedingly simple, being simply digitiform in D. bermudensis and 

 club-shaped in D. delicatula. In 0. fasciculata they are somewhat 

 more complicated, and from this the passage is easy to Verrill's 0. 

 (Lophactis) ornata, and from this to the very complicated structure 

 seen in 0. flosculifera. 



4. Diplactis bermudensis. n. Bp. (PI. VI. figs. 4 and 6, PI. VII, figs. 1 and 2.) 



A number of specimens of the form for which I propose this name 

 were obtained. The majority were in a partially contracted condi- 

 tion, but apparently the power of contraction is not fully developed 

 as in none were the tentacles completely concealed. The average 

 height of the specimens is about 1*5 cm. and the breadth nearly the 

 same, and thus D. bermudensis is decidedly smaller than D. delicatula. 

 The ectoderm has been almost entirely macerated away, so that the 

 external surface of the mesogloea is exposed to view. This presents 

 numerous transverse folds due to contraction, but in addition fine 

 linear depressed stride are present, both horizontal and longitudinal, 

 dividing the surface into numerous rows of small quadrangular ele- 

 vations visible to the unaided eye. The color throughout is a dirty- 

 green. 



The base is adherent, flat, and about the same size as the column. 

 It is marked by radiating and concentric stria?, continuations ot the 

 longitudinal and horizontal stria? respectively of the column. No 

 verruca? or tubercles occur on the column, though the quadrangular 

 areas produced by the stria? are slightly more prominent toward the 

 margin. This is well marked and smooth, and is separated from the 

 tentacles by a deep fosse (collar) near the bottom of which are about 

 12 short digitiform fronds about 1 mm. in height. (PI. VI, fig. 4p, 

 and PI. VII, fig. 1.) 



Between these fronds and the tentacles there is upon the endo- 

 dermal surface of the collar a sphincter (PI. VI, fig. 4, sp.) of the dif- 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



fuse type, which differs markedly in detail from that of D. delicatula, 

 the raesogloeal, processes being much more delicate and anastomosing 

 somewhat in their proximal portions (PI. VII, fig. 2). The circular 

 muscles of the column wall external to the dieitiform fronds 

 are fairly prominent, and are continued the entire way down the 

 column, not enlarging however to form a second sphincter. 



The tentacles are simple, conical, and of moderate length, and are 

 arranged in four cycles, their number being probably 96. By act- 

 ual count they seemed to vary somewhat, usually falling below that 

 number, but the discrepancies are probably due to the difficulty of 

 making a correct enumeration. They possess well-developed mes- 

 ogloeal processes for the support of the ectodermal muscles. The 

 disc is deeply folded in, internal to the tentacles, so as to form a deep 

 fosse around the peristome (PI. VII, fig. 1), which, however, does not 

 rise above the level of the margin. I was not able to distinguish in 

 any of my preparations the delicate raesogloeal processes of the disc 

 which support the ectodermal muscle cells in D. delicatula, but it is 

 possible that they had been macerated away. 



The mesogloea of the stomatodreum is raised upon its ectodermal 

 surface into prominent but rather delicate ridges, over which the 

 ectoderm is folded. The gonidial grooves are deep, and as in Ou- 

 lactis are prolonged below the level of the internal opening of the 

 stomatodoeum, and have the mesogloea thickened. In D. delicatula 

 Hertwig describes the gonidial grooves as being hardly marked in 

 the stomatodseum, and if this is found to be an invariable character- 

 istic, it will be necessary to alter slightly the definition of the Phyl- 

 lactidre given above. The depth of the grooves, and their prolonga- 

 tion downwards, is so marked in the other members of the group 

 that I have examined, as to suggest that its apparent shallowness in 

 the specimen examined by Hertwig may be due to distortion. 



The primary and secondary mesenteries are perfect throughout 

 the whole length of the stomatodseum ; the tertiaries are perfect in 

 their upper part, but lower down separate from the stomatodreum ; 

 while the fourth cycle consists entirely of imperfect mesenteries. 

 The directives are attached throughout a greater part of their 

 length than are any of the other mesenteries, owing to the pro- 

 longation of the gonidial grooves. The longitudinal muscles in the 

 upper portion of the mesenteries form a low band, covering the 

 greater portion of the non-gonophoric region of the mesentery; in- 

 ternally the muscle processes end rather abruptly, but externally they 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



gradually diminish in size. In the lower part of the mesentery, be- 

 low the level of the stomatodreum, the arrangement of the muscle 

 processes is veiy different (PI. VI, fig. 6). Throughout the greater por- 

 tion of the non-gonophoric region of the mesentery they are very 

 small, hut as the gonophoric region is approached they suddenly in- 

 crease in size, forming a strong projection, and then just as suddenly 

 diminish again, the projection being of slight extent. The parieto- 

 basilar muscles are well developed and form conspicuous folds. Both 

 external and internal mesenterial stomata are present (PL VII, fig. 1). 

 All the mesenteries with the exception of those of the first cycle are 

 gonophoric. 



The differences, between D. bermudensis and D. delicatula may be 

 briefly enumerated as follows : 



D. bermudensis. D. delicatula. 



Tentacles 96. Tentacles 160. 



Fronds digitiform, about 12 in Fronds dilated at the extremity, 



number. about 42 in number. 



Mesogloeal processes of sphincter Mesogloeal processes of sphincter 



muscle rather delicate, anas- stout, not anastomosing. 



tomosing slightly. 

 Ectodermal muscle processes of Ectodermal muscle processes of 



disc wanting (?) disc, long and delicate. 



Sttb Tnbe STICHODACTYLINsE. 



Family PHYMANTHIDJE. 



5. Phymanthus crucifer. (Les.) Andres. 



A single specimen of this species was obtained. I have nothing 

 to add to the statements already made regarding it in my paper on 

 the Bahama Actiniaria. 



Tribe ZOANTHE/E. 



Family ZOANTHIDJE. 



6. Zoanthus flos-marinus. Duch. and Mich. (PI. VII, figs. 3 and 4.) 



A large number of specimens of this species were obtained, and 

 enclosed with them was a label stating that they were collected at 

 Shelly Bay, Tuckerstown. In general appearance they resemble Z. 

 ^soeiatus from the Bahamas, the individuals as in that species forming 

 stolon-like prolongations from which new individuals bud ; their 

 .structure, however, shows them to belong to a different species. The 

 -colonies are, according to the accompanying label, 4 to 5 cm. in 




11-4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889.. 



breadth. The individual polyps in the preserved condition measure 

 1-2 cm. in height, and in breadth at the upper end 05, cm. the 

 lower portion and stolons measuring about 0" 25 cm. All are strongly 

 contracted, a small depression being the only indication of where 

 the entrance into the interior is situated. The color, according to 

 the inclosed label, was "spinach-green," but this must be taken as 

 applying only to the upper part of the column, the lower part and the 

 stolons being brown or sand colored. The disc was " apple-green " and 

 the tentacles green. 



The column upon the outside is covered by a cuticle, in which 

 are sparingly imbedded foreign bodies. The ectoderm is separated 

 from the cuticle by a layer of mesogloea, and consists of cells ar- 

 ranged in groups separated by partitions of mesogloea, but not show- 

 ing the degeneration which occurs in Z. sociatus. The mesogloea is 

 comparatively thick, and consists of a homogeneous matrix contain- 

 ing (1) numerous anastomosing spaces more or less filled with cells, 

 and (2) granular cells which give rise to delicate processes which 

 enter into connection with other granular cells, and with the spaces 

 just mentioned, and with the ectoderm and endoderm. Some sug- 

 gestions regarding the origin and function of these structures will be 

 found in connection with the description of M. tuberculoid which 

 follows. The endoderm of the column is low, and consists of more 

 or less spherical cells, usually containing zooxanthellse. A delicate 

 layer of muscle fibres arranged circularly occurs between the endo- 

 derm and the mesoglcea. 



At the upper part of the column a well-developed double sphincter 

 muscle occurs, imbedded in the mesogloea. It is stronger than that 

 found in Z. sociatus, and more nearly resembles that described by 

 Erdmann 1 and Hertwig 2 in Z. Dance. (?) 



The tentacles, according to the brief notes taken of the living 

 specimens, are " short, 50-60 in number, in 3 rows." My prepara- 

 tions, however, show that the last statement is erroneous, the tenta- 

 cles being arranged in two cycles only. Their ectoderm is not im- 

 bedded in the mesogloea, nor is there a cuticle covering it. The 

 ectodermal muscle processes of the mesogloea are fairly developed, 

 and immediately below them are to be seen, imbedded in the 

 mesogloea, peculiar granular pale yellowish-green cells, the proto- 



1 A. Erdmann. Ueber einige neue Zoantheen. Jen. Zeit. XIX. 1885. 



2 R. Hertwig. Supplement to Report on the Actiniaria. Zoology of the 

 voyage of H. M. S. Challenger. Vol. XXVI. 1888. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



plasm of which, with the exception of the nucleus, does not stain 

 with carmine. Otherwise the mesoglcea is homogeneous. The en- 

 doderm is thick, and is richly supplied with zooxanthellse. In struct- 

 ure the disc resembles the tentacles, possessing, like them, the 

 peculiar yellowish-green granular cells. 



The mesoglcea of the stomatodreum is homogeneous. I cannot 

 make any statements as to the histology of the ectoderm of this re- 

 gion, as it had macerated into a mass of a characteristic appearance 

 which cannot easily be described. Transverse sections show that the 

 gonidial groove, to which the macro or ventral directives are 

 attached, is very shallow, and indeed can hardly be said to exist. 



The mesenteries are arranged on the microtypus J . Their mes- 

 oglcea is for the most part very thin but thickens towards the base 

 where it contains a canal. (PI. VII, fig. 4, be.) A second canal, cir- 

 cular in section and packed with cells occurs in the thin region, the 

 mesoglcea splitting to form its walls. The muscle layers are only 

 slightly developed. 



A very peculiar arrangement occurs in connection with the mes- 

 enterial filaments of the perfect mesenteries. Immediately below 

 the stomatodseum the mesenterial filament is triradiate (PI. VII, fig. 

 3), the central ray being short and stout, the lateral rays longer and 

 recurved. The epithelium covering the central ray and that face of 

 the lateral rays which looks towards it resembles in structure that of 

 the stomatodreum. The outer surface of the lateral rays is, however, 

 covered with cells similar to those which line the general surface of 

 the mesentery. In a section which passes through the stomatoda?um 

 a little above its extremity, the intervals between the perfect mesen- 

 teries is occupied by macerated tissue resembling the ectoderm of 

 the stomatodaHim. Apparently it lines the surfaces of the mesenteries 

 for a short distance outwards from their point of attachment to the 

 stomatodreum, and also the outer surface of the latter for a short 

 distance above its inner opening. It looks as if the ectoderm of 

 the stomatodaBum were reflected upwards, so as to cover its endo- 

 dermal surface and the adjacent surfaces of the perfect mesenteries. 

 Further down (PL VII, fig. 4) the two lateral processes of the mesen- 

 terial filaments disappear, the central one alone persisting. It is 

 evidently the " glandular streak " of the filament. The cells which 

 cover the surface of the mesentery for some distance outward from 

 this towards the column-wall are very peculiar. (PI. VII, fig. 4 di.) 



1 See Erdmann loc. cit. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



They form a layer much thicker than that formed by the ordinary 

 endodermal cells, and are loaded with green granules, closely packed 

 together so that to the naked eye the region occupied by this layer 

 is of that color. Foreign bodies of organic nature are imbedded in 

 the cells, sometimes being surrounded by a number of cells contain- 

 ing no granules, or occasionally imbedded in the mesogloea. 



In unstained specimens, when the animal is laid open by a lon- 

 gitudinal incision, this region of the mesenteries is very distinct 

 on account of its rich preen color. When the loose cells of the 

 green area are scraped away with a scalpel and examined, they are 

 seen to be of a very irregular shape (suggesting a power of amoeboid 

 movement), and to contain numerous green globules, much smaller 

 than the zooxanthellre, darker in color, and homogeneous in struct- 

 ure. Amongst the cells are numerous zooxanthellse, and there are 

 also numerous spherical refractive bodies, apparently of a fatty 

 nature and with a slightly-greenish tinge, as well as the foreign 

 bodies already mentioned as seen in the section, and very numerous 

 delicate acicular silicious spicules. 



The occurrence of these spicules and organic foreign bodies in the 

 cells of this region is very strong evidence in favor of the supposi- 

 tion that they have a digestive function. The green globules may 

 be the products of digestion. If this be the case it is exceedingly 

 interesting as indicating a method of digestion in the Zoanthea? 

 somewhat different from what is usually described as occurring in the 

 rest of the Actiniaria. 



None of the specimens examined possessed sexual organs. There 

 were about 24-26 pairs of mesenteries in the specimens examined. 



I have identified this form with Duchassaing and Michelotti's 

 Z. flos-marinm, with the imperfect description of which it agrees 

 fairly well. In many respects it comes near Z. sociatus, but differs 

 markedly from it in others ; such for instance as in the nature of the 

 ectoderm and in the form of the sphincter-muscle, so that it must be 

 regarded as distinct. From the only Zoanthus hitherto described 

 from the Bermudas, Z. Dance (?) of Hertwig 1 it is readily dis- 

 tinguished by the absence of any distinct line of demarcation be- 

 tween the upper and lower portions of the column. 



1 K. Hertwig. Supplement to report on the Actiniaria of the Challenger 

 Expedition. 188S. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



7. Mammillifera tuberculata (Gray) (PI. VII, figs. 5 and 6.) 



Synon. — Isaurus tuberculatus — J. E. Gray. 1828. 



Zoanthus tuberculatus — Duchassaing and Michelotti. 1860. 

 Antinedia tuberculatus — Duchassaing and Michelotti. 1866. 

 Zoanthus (Monanthus) tuberculatus — Andres. 1883. 

 Autinedla Duchassaingi — Andres. 1883. 

 This form was first described by J. E. Gray, 1 from specimens in the 

 British Museum, whose locality was unknown. He adopted for the 

 genus Savigny's name Isaurus. In 1860, Duchassaing and Miche- 

 lotti rediscovered it, and, though apparently unacquainted with the 

 earlier description of Gray, applied to it the same specific name, but 

 placed it in the genus Zoanthus on account of the absence of sandy 

 incrustations on the column walls. In their second paper these 

 authors placing importance on the tuberculation of the column 

 walls erected for its reception the genus Antinedia. Andres in his 

 most useful monograph has assumed that the form described by 

 Gray is different from that which Duchassaing and Michelotti ob- 

 tained at St. Thomas and Guadeloupe, relying probably on the dis- 

 crepancies between the poor figures given by the latter authors and 

 the more correct one which Gray has given. He consequently re- 

 tains the specific term tuberculatus for Gray's form, proposing for 

 Duchassaing and Michelotti's the name Duchassaingi. There is 

 little room for doubt, however, that the two forms are identical : my 

 observations have shown that the species is to be referred to the 

 genus Mammillifera as defined by Erdmann. 



The specimens from the Bermudas were either solitary, attached 

 to apiece of rock by a base only very slightly expanded, or else were 

 grouped together in twos or threes in which case they were united by 

 a slightly-developed, flat or slightly-tubular coenenchyme. In none 

 had the coenenchyme any such tubular or stolon-like form as is 

 shown in the figure given by Duchassaing and Michelotti. Judging 

 from the specimens I studied, the tendency to form a coenenchyme 

 is slight. 



The polyps (PI. VII, fig. 5) vary in height from r3-2'7 cm. ; their 

 diameter being about 0'7-0 - 9 cm. The column is marked by six or 

 eight distinct annular grooves, and by from twenty to twenty-five 

 longitudinal ones. In the lower part of the column the ridges formed 

 by these longitudinal grooves are entire, but higher up they begin 

 to be divided into a series of tubercles, a row of these corresponding 



1 y. E. Gray — Spicilegia Zoolo^icn. London. 1828. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



to each ridge. These tubercles increase in size towards the margin 

 and several become grouped together upon elevations of the column 

 wall, giving rise to mulberry-like protuberances. Near the margin 

 the tubercles suddenly cease, forming, in contracted specimens, a 

 strong ridge bounding the dome-shaped area which forms in such 

 specimens the summit. This dome-shaped area belongs to the col- 

 umn, the animal being strongly contracted, and though without 

 tubercles shows clearly the continuation upwards upon it of the lon- 

 gitudinal furrows, and is, accordingly, marked by a series of radiating 

 ridges. 



In structure the tubercles of the column are solid, being eleva- 

 tions of the rnesoghea. This tissue throughout the column is very 

 thick, measuring on the average 1 mm. in thickness. It presents 

 numerous anastomosing canals filled with cells, as well as the delicate 

 canals, which have been described by Erdmann and others, very 

 distinctly. These canals are without doubt processes from the large 

 canals, and the structure of the zoanthan mesogloea may be com- 

 pared to that of a bone, such as a frog's femur, the anastomosing 

 canals being compared to the lacunas and the delicate canals to the 

 canaliculi. My preparations of M. tuberculata seem to show that the 

 lacunae arise from both the ectoderm and endoderm. In some of 

 my sections dee]) bays can be seen running from the endoderm up 

 into the mesoghea, and from their ends and sides numerous canali- 

 culi can be seen branching out. These bays can be found in various 

 stages of enclosure by the mesogloea, the cells which they contain 

 being in some cases continuous with the general endoderm, in other 

 cases almost separated from it and finally quite so. So too with the 

 ectoderm. The lacunas which have just been formed in this manner 

 are much larger than the majority of those scattered through the 



, mesogloea, these frequently consisting of only a few or even a 

 single cell, and further the newly-formed lacunae usually contain 

 zooxanthellas, whose presence is rare in the older ones. It would 

 seem as if many of the newly-formed lacunas become divided into 

 smaller portions which separate from each other, except by the del- 

 icate canaliculi, and at the same time undergo an alteration in the 



.histological structure of their cells, the zooxanthellas disappearing 

 and the cells becoming filled with refractive deeply-staining granules. 

 It seems not improbable that these altered cells are concerned in the 

 formation of the mesogloea, their granules being particles which will 

 later on be added to the matrix of the mesosrloea. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Upon the outside of the column is a thin cuticle (PL VII, fig. 6, cu.) 

 similar to what occurs in Z. sociulus and Z. flos-marinvs. Andres 1 

 considers this to be merely a differentiation or hardening of the 

 •external layers of the mesogloea, but I cannot agree with this view. 

 It is a clearly defined layer external to the mesogloea, and appears 

 quite different in composition and behavior to staining fluids from 

 that tissue. Below this cuticle comes a layer of mesogloea for which 

 Andres' term subcuticula may be employed. The distinction between 

 the cuticle and this layer has been overlooked by most authors. It 

 was recognized by Kolliker, 2 however, who believed it to be a por- 

 tion of the cuticle. Andres recognized its true nature considering 

 it simply a continuation of the mesoglcea. 



Below the subcuticula is the ectoderm (PL VII, fig. 6, ec.) which 

 forms a layer 0"08 mm. in thickness. It is not continuous, however 

 but is divided into more or less cubical masses by columns of mesogloea 

 extending from the general mass of that tissue to the subcuticula. 

 A peculiar feature of the ectoderm of this species is the presence in 

 it of zooxanthella?. In adult actinians these structures are usually 

 confined to the endoderm, but I have observed them in the ectoderm 

 in free-swimming larva?, in which layer they also occur according to 

 H. V. Wilson 3 in the embryos of the coral Manicina. It is possible 

 that their presence in the ectoderm of M. tuberculata is due to the 

 thick cuticle and subcuticula preventing a rapid aeration of the 

 ectoderm cells and so, by favoring the accumulation to a certain 

 extent of carbon dioxide, producing favorable conditions for the 

 growth of the parasitic alga?. The ectoderm thus buried in the 

 mesogloea evidently corresponds with what Kolliker, in the admira- 

 ble account he has given of the zoanthan mesogloea, 4 terms " eine 

 zusammenhangende Schicht driisenartiger Korper" and which he 

 believed to correspond to the ectoderm. 



The endoderm consists of low cells containing numerous zoo- 

 xanthellse. In the upper part of the column, extending from the 

 margin to the upper row of tubercles, is a single strong sphincter 



1 A. Andres. On a new genus and species of Zoanthina malacodermata ( Pan- 

 ceria spongiusa, sp. n.) — Quart. Journ. Micros. Sci. N. S. Vol. xvii. 1887. 



2 Kolliker. Icones Histologics. Leipzig. I860. 



:i //. V. Wilson. On the development of Manicina areolata. Journal of Mor- 

 phology. Vol. II. 1888. 



*A Kolliker, loc. cit. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



muscle imbedded in the mesoglcea, and occupying nearly its whole 

 thickness. 



All the specimens were in a state of strong contraction, and I was 

 not able to see the tentacles. Duchassaing and Michelotti state 

 that they are small tubercles. My sections show that they are ar- 

 arranged in two cycles. It is also evident that they are short, 

 but they can scarcely be termed tnbercles. Their mesogheais thick, 

 especially toward the base, thinning out somewhat towards the apex. 

 Its outer surface is thrown into rather strong muscular processes. 



The surface of the stomatodpeum is thrown into numerous rather 

 high folds, the ectoderm being elevated on slender processes of 

 the mesoglcea. 



The mesenteries are arranged on the microtypus and number 

 twenty-two pairs. Towards their base the mesoglcea is very thick 

 diminishing gradually towards the distal edge. Just at the base 

 there is a sudden diminution of the thickness, so that they are 

 attached to the column wall by a thin pedicle. The basal portion 

 contains the usual canal, and in addition there are numerous lacunar 

 similar to those of the column wall in every respect. M. tuberculata 

 is hermaphrodite, and I am able to add this particular to the defini- 

 tion of the genus given by Erdmann. 1 I could not make out any reg- 

 ularity in the arrangement of the reproductive elements on the differ- 

 ent mesenteries, nor did there seem to be any definiteness in their 

 position in any one mesentery. Sometimes a mesentery would possess. 

 ova only, but usually each one presented both ova and spermatozoa. 



8. Corticifera ocellata (Ellis). 



Synon. : Alcyonium ocellatum. Ellis and Solander, 1786. 

 Palythoa ocellata. Lamouroux, 1821. 



A number of small colonies of a Corticifera were obtained at 

 Shelly Bay, and were accompanied by a label referring them to the 

 above species. The term ocellata was first given by Ellis and Solan- 

 der to a form which, however, was very poorly characterized, so 

 much so that certainty of identification is impossible. The only 

 statement in the description of which use may be made is that the 

 polyps are rust-colored. Later authors simply copied Ellis and 

 Solander's description until Dana, 2 evidently relying on the figure 

 which accompanies the earlier description adds the characteristic 

 that the polyps, though imbedded in coenenchyma throughout the 



1 Erdman A. loc. cit. 



-J. D. Dana, Zoophytes. United States Exploring Expedition. 1849. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



greatest part of their extent, are yet free above. Duchassaing 

 and Michelotti in their paper of 1860 describe a form under this 

 name which differs somewhat from the original type species, and 

 is probably to be considered, as Andres has clone, a distinct form. 

 In their later paper they make this form identical with a form they 

 name Palythoa mammillosa, a name taken from a second imper- 

 fectly characterized form mentioned by Ellis and Solander. In 

 fact so much confusion is introduced by Duchassaing and Mich- 

 elotti as to render it very difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain 

 what forms they are really describing. 



Under the circumstances I have thought it well to retain the name 

 which accompanied the specimens, and trust that the following 

 description will sufficiently characterize them to allow of the identi- 

 fication in the future. 



The polyps are grouped together in small masses, and project 

 decidedly above the surface of the ccenenchyme. Their height 

 measured from the lower surface of the ccenenchyma is 1-2 cm. 

 and their breadth, measured at the summit, about 0*7 cm. in the 

 fully grown individuals. The polyps and ccenenchyma are densely 

 in crusted with particles of sand and other foreign bodies, and are of 

 a grayish sandy color, sometimes deepening to a rust color. 



Upon the outside of the column is a rather thick cuticle, but I 

 was not able to discover whether or not a layer of mesoglcea inter- 

 vened between this and the ectodermal cells. The outer portion of 

 the mesoglcea for about half its thickness has imbedded in it foreign 

 bodies, and when decalcified is fenestrated by the numerous cavities 

 previously occupied by them. The internal portion of the layer 

 presents the structural features found in other Zoanthidse, but it is 

 to be noticed that foreign bodies occur in the so-called " nutritive 

 canals" or lacunar The sphincter muscle is imbedded in the mesr 

 ogleea, is single, and consists of a single row of cavities containing 

 muscle fibres. 



The tentacles are arranged in two rows and are apparently fifty- 

 six in number in the specimens examined. Their outer muscular 

 layer is weak and the mesoglcea is homogeneous except upon the 

 outer face of the tentacles where it contains a number of granular 

 cells similar to those occurring in the column mesoglcea in this and 

 other forms already described. Zooxanthellre occur in the ectoderm. 



The ectoderm of the disc is peculiar. It consists of high much- 

 vacuolated cells which contain, like the ectoderm of the tentacles, 



9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



zooxanthellse. I have found this peculiar structure of the disc 

 ectoderm in no other Zoanthids. Unfortunately the preservation of 

 the specimens was not sufficiently good to allow of the histological 

 details being studied. The gonidial groove of the stomatodamm is 

 rather broad and the mesogloea lining is thickened and truncated 

 upon the endodermal side, the macrodirectives being inserted into 

 each angle of the truncation. 



The mesenteries are arranged on the microtypus, there being 

 about twenty-six pairs. The basal canal is large, and contains 

 foreign particles similar to those found in the lacunae of the column, 

 The mesogloea is thickened towards the base of the mesenteries and 

 contains in addition to the basal canal, several others nearly circular 

 in section and completely filled with spherical granular cells. 

 The endoderm throughout contains zooxanthelke. No reproductive 

 organs were present. 



9. Corticifera glareola, Les. 



Synon.: Corticifera glareola. Lesueur. 1817. 



Palythoa glareola. Milne-Edwards. 1857. 



The identification of this form depends mainly on the coloration, 

 which Professor Heilprin informs me is sufficiently similar to Les- 

 ueur's description. 



The polyps form encrusting masses, and are so deeply imbedded 

 in the coeneuchyme, that in contraction a slight depression alone 

 indicates the position of the various individuals, or in some cases a 

 slight annular elevation. The species is by this peculiarity readily 

 distinguishable from C. ocellata, as well as from C. jiava of the 

 Bahamas, which stands in an intermediate position as far as the pro- 

 jection of the polyps above the ccenenchyme is concerned. The 

 form described from the Bermudas by Erdmann, and named C- 

 lutea by Hertwig resembles C. glareola in this respect, but appears 

 to differ from it in other points. 



The mesogloea is, with the exception of a narrow band immediately 

 adjoining the endoderm of the polyps, richly supplied with imbedded 

 foreign bodies, so that the entire colony is very hard, almost stony 

 in its consistency. C. ocellata is much less richly provided with 

 foreign particles, and the same is the case with Hertwig's C. latea. 

 Whether this is a characteristic of sufficient importance for specific 

 distinction can only be ascertained by the examination of numerous 

 specimens of some species, obtained from different localities and 

 living under different conditions. In fact our knowledge of the his- 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



tology of the zoanthidse is not yet sufficiently advanced to enable us 

 to ascertain what features are of systematic importance and what 

 are liable to extensive individual variation. 



The sphincter muscle resembles closely that of Hertwig's G.lutea. 

 It is imbedded in the mesoglcea and is single, consisting of a single 

 row of cavities which are entirely confined to the portion of the 

 column which is invaginated during contraction. All the cavities 

 contain muscle cells and there are none of the empty spaces with 

 clearly defined walls such as occur in G. fiava. 



The mesenteries are arranged in the microtypus, and in the speci- 

 mens examined there were about eighteen pairs only. The mesoglcea 

 is delicate, and is not dilated towards the base as in C. oeellata, and 

 in consequence, the basal canal is elongated. Notwithstanding that 

 the specimens were very much macerated it was possible to perceive 

 that a digestive area, similar to that described as occurring in Z.jios- 

 marinm was present, just below the stomatodseum. No reproductive 

 organs were present. 



The stomatodseum presented the pyriform, truncated shape which 

 lias been described for other members of the genus. 



It seems not improbable that the form described by Hertwig as 

 C. luted may be identical with this. Alcoholic specimens of C. 

 glareola show no trace of the coloration of the living forms, but are 

 of a universal sandy color. In the very slight prominence of the 

 polyps above the ccenenchyme, in the structure of the sphincter 

 muscle, and in the slenderness of the mesenteries there is agreement 

 between the two, and these are points which will probably prove to 

 be of systematic importance. On the other hand there is dissim- 

 ilarity in the extent of the incrustation by foreign bodies, in the pig- 

 mentation of the endoderm which is wanting in C. glareola, and ap- 

 parently in the extent of the development of the longitudinal muscles 

 of the mesenteries, which cannot be said to be well developed in G. 

 glareola. This last character is probably of importance, but the 

 first two are probably subject to variation depending upon the con- 

 ditions of life and the food. 



The evidence then, seems to be in favor of the identity of the two 

 forms, in which case the name here used has the priority. It seems 

 to me very doubtful indeed if Hertwig's identification of the Ber- 

 muda form with Quoy and Gaimard's G. Itdea from the Fiji islands 

 is correct. The only point of correspondence, judging from the 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



description and figures given by Quoy and Gaimard, 1 is the slight 

 prominence of the polyps above the coenenchyme when in contraction. 

 10. Gemmaria Rusei, Duch. and Mich. (PI. VII, fig. 7-9.) 



Synon.: Gemmaria Rusei. Duchassaing and Miehelotti. 1860. 



I was pleased to find in the Bermuda collection several specimens 

 of a form which evidently belongs to the same genus as the form 

 from the Bahamas which I described as Gemmaria isolata. Several 

 anatomical features are common to the two, and I am now able to 

 give other characteristics which may serve to distinguish the genus 

 more definitely than was done in my former paper. 



The polyps of G. Rusei (PI. VII, fig. 7) are solitary, being attached 

 to pebbles without the development of any coenenchyme. The spec- 

 imens were obtained at North Rock, and are five in number. The 

 upper portion of the column is larger than the lower, so that the 

 polyps have the shape of a short stout club ; the lower portion is 

 transversely wrinkled even in the expanded condition, as is noted in 

 the label accompanying the specimens. The height of the column 

 is about 2-5 cm. in the largest specimens ; the diameter of the upper 

 part is 0-65 cm. and of the lower 05 cm. The color is stated on the 

 label to have been " cinereous throughout." 



The column wall is rather thin, and is occupied throughout nearly 

 its entire thickness by foreign bodies. The ectoderm is covered 

 externally by a cuticle, but I was unable to ascertain whether a 

 layer of mesogloea intervened between this and the surface of the 

 ectoderm. The structure of the thin layer of mesoglcea unoccupied 

 by foreign bodies is as in other zoanthidae and calls for no special 

 comment. The sphincter is single, and imbedded in the mesoglcea ; it 

 consists for the most part of a single layer of cavities, but thickens 

 somewhat towards its upper end. All the cavities contain muscle 

 cells, there being none of the empty cavities described in G. isolata. 



The tentacles are arranged in two cycles, and have only a very 

 weak ectodermal musculature, as is also the case in isolata. Towards 

 the base and upon the outer surface the mesoglcea contains peculiar 

 granular cells, and occasionally enclosures of foreign bodies, and this 

 likewise occurs in isolata. 



The disc is traversed by a number of ridges which radiate from 



the peristome to the margin, a ridge corresponding to each tentacle 



of the outer cycle. The elevations are produced by thickenings of 



the mesogloea (PI. VII, fig. 9), and along each ridge the ectodermal 



1 Quoy and Gaimar v^Zoologie du Voyage de la corvette 1' Astrolabe. Paris. 1833. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



muscle cells are more numerous and larger than elsewhere. Isolaia 

 presents similar structures. Zooxanthellse occur in the ectoderm of 

 the disc, and tentacles in both forms. The enclosures in the mesogloea 

 of the disc, which I thought might possibly be muscle cells in isolata, 

 are seen in Rusei to be comparable to the lacunae of the column wall. 



The mesogloea of the stomatodseum in both species of Gemmaria 

 has enclosures of granular cells (PI. VII, fig. 8), as a rule one such 

 enclosure opposite the insertion of each mesentery, especially in the 

 upper part of the stomatodseum, the arrangement being lost in the 

 lower part. The gonidial groove has the same shape as that of G- 

 isolata. 



The mesenteries are arranged in thirty-one pairs and are on the 

 microtypus. The mesogloea thickens towards the base so that the 

 basal canal is almost circular and not elongated as in G. isolata. 

 No reproductive organs were present. 



The description given by Duchassaing and Michelotti of Gemma- 

 ria Rusei, with which I identify this form, is very imperfect, but 

 so far as it goes it applies to the Bermuda species. The form de- 

 scribed by Gray 1 as Triga philipjnnensis is very similar in external 

 form and is in all probability a Gemmaria. 



Of the forms described above, no less than seven, viz : Condylaetis 

 passifiora, Phymanthus crucifer, Zoanthus fios-marinus, Mammillijera 

 tuberculata, Corticifera ocellata, C. glareola and Gemmaria Rusei, 

 are represented in the West Indian fauna, and of the other three, 

 the genera Aiptasia and Phyllactis also occur in the islands to the 

 South, leaving only the genus Diplaetis as a characteristic form of 

 the Bermudas. No doubt a systematic search for Actio ians in the 

 Bermudas would lead to the discovery of a greater number of West 

 Indian forms, but the proportion of common forms given above is 

 sufficient to show that the Actinian fauna of the Bermudas has been 

 derived from that of the West Indies. 



Explanation of Plates. 



£>c.=basal canal. en.— endoderm. 



c.—column wall. /r.=fronds. 



cm. =circular muscles. ?n.=margin. 



cw.— cuticle. ^).=tentaculiform fronds. 



d=disc. sp.=sphincter. 



1 y. E. Gray. Notes on Zoanthinse with descriptions of some new genera. Proc. 

 Zool. Soc. London. 1867. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



di. digestive region of mesen- 

 terial filament. *//. lower sphincter. 

 £b.=Ectoderm. £.=tentacle. 



Plate VI. 



1. Transverse section through the middle region of the sphincter 

 of Aiptatia sp. (?) X 350. 



2. Longitudinal section through the upper half of the column 

 wall of Aiptasia sp. (?) X 40. 



'■). Transverse section through the outer edge of the longitudinal 

 mesenterial muscles of a specimen of Condylactis passiflora from the 

 Bermudas. X 42. 



4. Longitudinal section through the margin and adjacent parts 

 of Diplactis bermudensis. X 24. 



5. Longitudinal section through the margin and adjacent pails 

 of Oulactis fasciculaia. ;< 21. 



6. Transverse section through the longitudinal mesenterial mus- 

 cles below the stomatodseum in Diplactis bermudensis. X 40. 



Plate VII. 



1. Perfect mesentery of Diplactis bermudensis. Natural size. 



2. Portion of transverse section of sphincter of Diplactis ber- 

 mudensis. X 100. 



3. Transverse section of mesenterial filament of Zoanthus flos- 

 marinus just below the stomatodseum. X 120. 



4. Transverse section of perfect mesentery ofZoanth ug flos-marin us 

 slightly below the stoinatodseum. X 50. 



5. Mammillifera tuberculata. Natural size. 



6. One-fourth of a portion of a longitudinal section through the 

 column wall of M. tuberculata. X 200. 



7. Gemmaria Rusei. Natural size. 



8. Transverse section through the gonidial groove of Gemmaria 

 Rusei. X 65. 



9. Transverse section through upper part of column of Gemmaria 

 Rusei. X 24. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



NOTES ON A SMALL COLLECTION OF MYRIAPODS FROM THE 

 BERMUDA ISLANDS. 



BY CHARLES II. BOLLMAX. 



The following species, which were collected by Prof. Heilprin in 

 the summer of 1.888, although limited in number, show the diverse 

 origin of the Myriapod fauna of the Bermuda Islands. Heretofore 

 Julus moreleti has only been found in the Azores Islands ; 

 Mecistocephalus guildingii in the West Indies ; IAiliobius lapidicola 

 in Europe; and Spirobolus heilprini, by having scobina, shows 

 its West Indian and not African origin, for all found in the latter 

 continent belong to the subgenus Sjnrobolus from which scobina are 

 absent. 



These four species, including a specimen of Scolopendra subspinipes 

 which I have in my collection, are all that as vet have been reported 

 from the Bermuda Islands. 



I desire to express my thanks to Prof. Angelo Heilprin, of the 

 Acad. Nat. Sciences of Philadelphia, for the privilege of examining 

 this collection of Myriapods. 

 1. Spirobolus heilprini, sp. nov. 



Ding. — Related to Spirobolus flavooinctus Karsch., but the seg- 

 ments very distinctly segmented, anterior part not striate; antennae 

 and legs reddish-brown. 



Type. — Museum Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. Greenish-black, posterior 

 margin of segments rufous; antenna.' and legs reddish-brown. 

 Slender, anterior segments scarcely attenuated. Vertex smooth, 

 sulcus shallow ; clypeus only moderately emarginate, foveolse 2 "_'. 

 distant, sulcus sub-continuous with vertical. Antenna; rather 

 -lender, reaching second segment in both sexes. Ocelli arranged in 

 a suboval or subtriangular patch, 45-55, in seven or eight series. 

 Segments not smooth ; posterior parts above with short and wavy, 

 beneath with short and straight strhe; median part with a 

 transverse sulcus which ends above repugnatorial pore ; posteriorly 

 above with a few striae, beneath almost smooth or with a few weak 

 oblique strise. Lateral lobes of first segment rounded, a weak 

 marginal sulcus. Anal segment with a flat, thick mucro, which 

 passes beyond valves ; anal valves weakly margined, not punctate; 

 anal scale obtusely angled. Repugnatorial pore placed on anterior 

 division, small and rather deep set. Legs extending slightly beyond 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



sides of body. Male : slenderer than female ; coxa? of 3, 4, 5th, 

 pairs of legs produced into short lobes; tibia and first two tarsal 

 joints beneath with an oval roughened lobe; joints of anterior legs 

 short and thick, third and fourth pairs of legs strongest; tarsi 

 without a pad ; ventral plate of copulation-foot triangular as high 

 as foot, its base not concave, its posterior surface ridged, thus making 

 the plate of a triangular-pyramidal form ; anterior part of first foot 

 not as high as ventral plate, triangularly pointed, the ventral plate 

 ridge separating them ; posterior part of anterior foot as high as 

 ventral plate, its apex with a short blunt lobe on its posterior 

 surface ; posterior copulation-foot bifid, projecting out of the 

 opening, the upper branches flattened -and fan-shaped at its end, 

 which is convex ; lower branch elongate-lanceolate, its upper edge 

 serrate, basal part of foot rectangular and white, while the upper 

 part is yellowish. 



Segments male, 46 ; female, 44. 



Length 52 mm , width 3-8 mm -4-2 mm 



This species is described from six broken and badly preserved 

 specimens. In the type of copulation-foot it resembles that of 

 arboreus and dugesi, and it is very probable that all the species 

 belonging to this group have the same type, i. e. the ventral plate 

 triangular and as high as posterior part of anterior part, while the 

 anterior part is less, the posterior foot bifid and projecting out of 

 the opening. 



I have named this species after Prof. Angelo Heilprin, of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



2. Julus moreleti Lucas. 



In the collection are a number of female specimens, which I refer 

 to this species* It has only been found in the Azores Islands. 



These specimens have the stria) of the anterior division of the 

 segments not so irregular as represented in Porath's figure of this 

 species* 



Segments 42-19. Adult almost black, legs reddish-brown ; 

 young dusky, with a lateral row of black spots and a medium black 

 dorsal line, bordered with yellowish. 



3. Mecistocephalus guildingii Newport. 



Three specimens. These are so moulded and broken that it is 

 almost impossible to make much out; but in the characters of the 

 head, they seem to be identical with the West Indian species. 



*Am. nagra Myriopoder frau Azorema. < ")Tver. Kongl. Vet. Akad. Forh., 

 Stockh , 820, 1870. 




Proc.Acad.Nat.Sci.Hdla. 1889 



Plate I 



. 



ISP* 



1 >,'"^l 



sq. 



cr.p. 



l gP 



i. 



en ■ 



\ 



oc : 



t hy 



bh 



RW. • 





SHUFELDT ()\ NEOTOm FUSCIPES 





Proc.Arad.Nat.Sci.Phila.1889 



Plate II. 



sq.—.. 



Fig 5. 



Fig 6 



bs--; 



fm-^ 



-b.o. 



S.o. 



RW.Shufeldt adi 



■ 



SHUFELDT ON NEOTOMA FUSCIPES 



(Embryo x f> ). 





Proc.Acad.Xat Sci Phila.1889 



Plate III 



# 



*iim 



' '■ :■ -1m 



14 





■ 



■h 



\n 



\ 



.„.s 





2C 





PILSBRVONNEWAND LITTLE KXOWX MOLLUSKS 





Proc.Arad.Xat.Sci Phila.1889 



Plate IV. 





.MARX OX SPIDERS OF BERMUDA 





Proc.Arad.Xal Sri PVula.IoHf) 



Plate V 



v -:" ' 



Geo S HaLrris&Sone Lith.Phila 



IIARTMAN.SHELLS FROM NEW HEBRIDES 





rnH-.Acacl.Xat.SciPhila.1889 



Plate \1. 





fr 



^••:. : .->s 





"■■-I 



" 



iMMSmm 





a Phil a 



M9 MURRICH OX ACTINIARIA 





Proc .Acad Xal Sci.Plula.1889 



Plate VII. 





..'■??5£vff|. ■;'••,'•••.: 

 ■ ■:■■:}■■?!■:•■:■:* 



..'•.••^/■•.'. • ..V 



•-««». *"* 



.,: ; .:i:?^vv-v - : y-' 



£> 



\ f/mM) 



k\ 







w 



:, '> 



■*'. 



M 



IF v 



V - 



Si 



\ * J" ,v J*J| 



M C M del. 



Geo. S. Harris &Sone LitKPhilaL. 



M9 MURRICH ON ACTINIARIA. 





1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



4. Lithobius lapidicla Meinert. 



Two specimens, male and female. Joints of antennae 26 ; ocelli 

 8 or 9, in three series; coxal pores male 2, 3,3,2, female 3, 4, 4, 3; 

 spines of first pair of legs, 0, 1, 1 ; of penultimate pair, 1, 3, 3, 1 ; 

 of anal pair, 1, 3, 2, 0; spines of female genitalia stout, claw very 

 distinctly tripartite, middle lobe not much longer ; length male 7 raIU ; 

 female 8 mm . 



It is very probable that these specimens are not identical with 

 L. lapidicola, a European species; but as they are rather mutilated, 

 I have hesitated to describe them as new. 



May 7. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Fifty persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Catalogue of the Asteroidea and Ophiuroidea in the collection of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia," by J. E. Ives. 



" Provisional List of the Plants of the Bahama Islands," by John 

 Gardiner and L. J. K. Brace. 



The Proceedings of the Botanical Section having precedence the 

 following communications were made : — 



On the Use of the Bambusa Stem, in Incandescent Electric Light- 

 { n g m — Prof. Wm. P. Wilson stated that the ordinary exogenous 

 woods are not adapted to the construction of the filament for 

 want of a homogeneous structure. Such woods are made up of 

 wood-cells of varying lengths and shapes in combination with a 

 variety of ducts and vessels. 



The walls of the wood-cells may be more or less thickened, the 

 vessels and ducts may be larger or smaller, numerous or infrequent 

 according to the kind of wood examined. There are always enough of 

 these vessels and ducts combined with the wood-cells in any stem to 

 render the structure exceedingly heterogeneous. Most of these 

 cells and vessels have their longer diameter parallel with the 

 general direction of the stem. Groups of thin walled, prismatic 

 cells pass radially from the central portion of the stem to the cir- 

 cumference. These groups of cells are called medullary rays. It 

 is impossible to cut a filament from any of these woods and so cut 

 it that the medullary rays will not cross it many times at right 

 angles to the ducts and long cells. The character of the cells form- 

 ing these rays is so very different from the others in the filament, 

 both as to shape, direction, and thickness of the walls, that at the 

 10 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



crossing points resistance is greatly increased, thus causing rapid 

 burning and destruction at such points. 



Such woods as Hickory and Rock-Elm furnish the very best of 

 our timbers. They are the toughest and most durable of our woods; 

 but they do not make good filaments. The medullary rays are 

 very numerous and the walls of the cells composing them greatly 

 thickened. The long, pointed, thick-walled wood-cells do not follow 

 a parallel course, but interlace with each other. This interlacing 

 of the cells gives to these woods their toughness. It is the main 

 characteristic also which renders them worthless when made into 

 electric filaments. Upon carbonization of such filaments the ten- 

 sion of the interlacing cells is relieved and the tissues composing it 

 become friable and easily fall apart. 



In the adult stem of the Bambusa a combination of anatomical 

 characters has brought about a result which makes it the most 

 fitting material so far as now known for the electric filament. 



The nearly parallel fibro-vascular bundles grow more numerous 

 as they approach the circumference of the stem and as is usual in 

 similar steins lose most, or sometimes all, of the woody elements, 

 thus becoming pure bast. The parenchymatic tissue which 

 toward the center of the stem may be composed of a layer of five 

 or six cells between the bundles, decreases in amount near the cir- 

 cumference until but one layer of cells remains. The walls of the 

 cells in this single layer often become so thickened, and at the same 

 time compressed by the growth of the bast, that these bundles appear 

 to make a solid zone of bast around the circumference of the stem. 

 The bast-cells also continue to thicken their walls until they 

 become, in the best specimens for the filament, completely filled and 

 solid. 



It is from this zone of bast at the circumference of the stem that 

 the filament is always taken. 



The following characters will be found to exist in such a filament: 

 Bast fibers solid ; very compact without inter-cellular spaces ; 

 nearly parallel ; joined together by mitred ends thus appearing as 

 continuous fibres; the presence of a minimum amount of paren- 

 chyma possible in such filament; a sufficient amount of cohe- 

 sion between the separate fibres to often cause the separation of 

 bast-cells in halves upon splitting the material. 



These characters secure the least possible diversification of cells, 

 i.e., the most homogeneous structure which can be secured where 

 long, solid fibers are sought. This filament is perhaps the nearest 

 approach, in its continuity of structure and uniform character, to 

 a metallic conductor of any tissue which can be found in the vegeta- 

 ble kingdom. 



The Botany of the Bahamas. — Prof. Charles S. Dolley 

 remarked that the list of Bahama plants which he presented for 

 publication this evening represents one hundred and fifteen families, 

 four hundred and ten genera, and six hundred and twenty-one species. 

 One-third of the families (forty-seven) are represented by but one 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



or two species each, another third by five species or less. Nearly 

 two-thirds of the genera have but one representative. 



In order of importance, or number of species, the families are 

 LeguminoscB, fifty-three sp. ; Euphorbiacece, thirty-five sp. ; Com- 

 posite, thirty-two sp.; Graminece, thirty-two sp. ; Rubiacece, twenty- 

 three sp. ; Malvacece, eighteen sp. The genera having the largest 

 number of species are Oroton, Epidendron, Euphorbia, Passiflora 

 with eight species each ; Acacia, Cassia, Citrus, Eugenia, Ipomoea, 

 Solanum and Tillandsia, with six species each, and Anona, Cereus, 

 Cyperus, Eupatorium, each with five species. Nearly one-third of 

 the total number of species are of economic value; of those possess- 

 ing medicinal properties there are forty-five astringents, thirty-four 

 tonics, twenty-five purgatives and twenty-one diuretics. 



A comparison of the Bahama— phsenogamic flora with that of the 

 Bermudas shows eighty-two families and one hundred and ninety- 

 five species common to the two groups of islands. 



While a large per centage of the flora is undoubtedly common to 

 Florida and the neighboring islands of the West Indies, fully one- 

 third of the species listed may be considered indigenous. 



Unfortunately no tract similar to the "Walsingham tract" of the 

 Bermudas has yet been found, in which the indigenous vegetation 

 of the group remains undisturbed in the possession of the orginal 

 surface. 



The present rocks are jeolian in formation, and the contained 

 fossils resemble present species, facts which indicate the recent 

 character of the Bahamas. 



That the older vegetation has been exterminated by wind and 

 water erosion and by subsidence, and that it, in its turn, grew upon 

 a surface of seolian origin is well shown by the present state of Booby 

 Island and similar barren Cays. Here the surface is covered by 

 grotesque excrescences produced by the wearing away of the softer 

 portions of the rock. Among these projecting masses, many are 

 tubular, the lumen of the tubes ranging from a fraction of an 

 inch to over a foot in diameter. These tubes bifurcate and branch 

 in various ways, and at first sight suggested to the speaker the idea 

 that they might be fulgurites. Close examination shows that the 

 rock of which thev are formed consists of minute water-worn grains 

 of calcareous material, comminuted coral and shell, cemented com- 

 pactly together ; in fact, they resemble in structure the rocks of the 

 fertile islands. They are, however, very much hardened on the inner 

 surface and a distinct zone of harder substance is apparent upon 

 fresh transverse fracture. 



This vitreous appearance, together with evidence that the 

 tubes had been formed while the sand was in an uncompacted con- 

 dition, recalled Darwin's description of fulgurites found in a similarly 

 exposed locality near the La Plata 1 and those found at Drigg 



1 Journ. of Researches into the Nat. Hist, of countries visited during the Voy- 

 age of H. M. S. Beagle, Vol. I, p. 76. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



in Cumberland. 1 Specimens brought to Philadelphia, however, and 

 carefully examined chemically and microscopically go to prove that 

 these tubes are not the result of lightning strokes, and that the 

 hardened interior is not vitrification, but solidification due to 

 partial solution of the loose grains of sand. 



Evidence is thus obtained to show that these tubes represent the 

 ramifications of plant roots of a now exterminated flora ; plants 

 which existed probably upon the first sands drifted upon the original 

 rocky core. The juices of the roots acting upon the sand inmediately 

 surrounding them formed a compact layer. Through erosion and 

 subsidence the vegetation was afterwards exterminated, the looser 

 particles of the drift rock worn away and the surface left covered by 

 myriads of tubes of all sizes formerly occupied by plant roots and 

 rootlets. The small islands exhibiting these peculiar formations 

 are indications, therefore, of erosion and subsidence, and in the 

 Bahamas, the processes of land destruction and land formation may 

 be seen actively at Avork. There is reason to believe that the 

 topography of the present islands has undergone great change, and 

 the probabilities of finding a locality in which the present flora 

 represents an undisturbed indigenous growth are slight. 



Fossil corals of recent types are found much above high water- 

 mark ; large caves with their floors above tide level exist, together 

 with many other evidences of land elevation. Many of the islands 

 show the formation of seolian rocks in progress, while in the great 

 bights dividing Andros Island, and elsewhere, the deposition of for- 

 aminifera has been so great that former channels and sponging 

 grounds have within very recent years become too shallow for ap- 

 proach. On the whole the Bahamas seem to be growing, but changes 

 in the configuration of the group have also undoubtedly been going 

 on through erosion and local subsidences probably owing to the 

 undermining action of the waves.' 2 



The role played by vegetation in determining the character of 

 land surface is again well shown in the so-called " Banana holes," 

 so abundant in New Providence and other islands, holes varying in 

 size from that of a pint cup to that of a large cistern. They are 

 suggestive of pot holes, but can have no such origin and are evidently 

 not cut out by the waves at any previous period of subsidence. He 

 could account for their formation in but one way, and that is 

 through the action of decaying vegetable matter. Each of these 

 holes contains large quantities of leaves and other vegetable sub- 

 stances which, being kept wet by the heavy rains and by the fresh 

 water elevated by each rising tide (almost all wells have a regular 

 ebb and flow in these porous islands), undergo fermentative changes, 

 by the products of which the soft calcareous rock is dissolved and 

 leaches away. He was interested also in examining sections of ex- 



1 Geol. Trans., Vol. ii, p. 528. 



2 Vid. Fewkes, on the Origin of the Present Form of the Bermudas, Proc. 

 Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., Vol. xxiv, 1888, p. 518. 




oo 



1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 •>' 



posed coral rock, to find in the minute interstices, between the com- 

 ponent grains, actively living protococei, sometimes at a depth of tz 

 -i of an inch. Undoubtedly these little plants have much to do 

 with the rapid breaking down of the rock surface. 



The list of plants was in its original shape placed at his service 

 by Sir Alfred Blake then Governor of the Bahamas. 



The speaker had been able to add quite a number of species from 

 his own collections made for the University of Pennsylvania, 1 

 from a list of plants collected by Prof. F. H. Herrick 2 and from 

 collections made by his friend Dr. Anna H. Searing, of Rochester, 

 New York. While the botany of the Bermudas has been well 

 worked up, 3 no extensive lists have before been prepared for the 

 Bahamas, and he therefore felt justified in presenting the paper re- 

 corded by title this evening. 



The celebrated botanist Andre Michaux visited these islands over 

 one hundred years ago, and sent to France over nine hundred trees and 

 twenty boxes of seeds. No record exists of these other than this fact, re- 

 corded in Michaux's journals. Lists and specimens of many valuable 

 woods and textile plants were sent to the colonial exhibition, 4 

 together with a series of over sixty beautiful life-size, water-color 

 paintings of many of the more interesting plants made by Mrs. 

 Blake. From time to time notes and reports have been published 

 on special agricnltural plants 5 and references to the more striking 

 plants occur in the various popular accounts of the Bahamas 

 and in the various works on the history of these islands. The larger isl- 

 ands, such as Abaco and Andras, could supply much valuable tim- 

 ber, were it not for the difficulty of bringing it from the interior to 

 the harbors. Although surface soil is very scant throughout the is- 

 lands, the difficulty of cultivation does not consist so much in 



1 Vid. Preliminary Abstract Report of the Marine Laboratory, Ann. Report of 

 the Provost lor 1887. 



2 Flora of Abaco and Adjoining Islands, Tohns Hopkins Univ. Circ, Vol. vi, 

 p. 46. 



3 The Botany of the Bermudas by Sir John Henry Lefroy, F. R. S., Bull. U. 

 S. Nat. Mus., No. 25, Part II, 1884.' 



Plants of the Bermudas, or Somers Islands, by Oswald A. Reade, Royal 

 Gazette Office, Hamilton, Bermuda, 188-5. 



On the Lichens of the Islands of the Atlantic Ocean (Bermuda) Journ. 

 Linn. Soc. (Botany), Vol xiv, p. 366, by J. Stirton. 



On the Lichens collected during the Challenger Expedition, ibid., xvi. by J 

 M. Crombie. 



Notes on the Vegetation of the Bermudas. On the Marine Algae of St. 

 Thomas and the Bermudas, by H. N. Moseley, ibid., xiv, p. 311, 317. 



On the Marine Algce of St. Thomas and the Bermudas by George Dickie, 

 ibid., Vol. xiv, p. 312. 



4 Commercial and Technical Report on West Indian and British Honduras 

 Products at the Colonial and Indian Exhibition, 1886. Wm. Clowes and Son, 

 London. 



5 Local Notes on Science and Agriculture, Four Series, Nassau Guardian, 

 1886, by John Gardiner. Report on the Agricultural condition and prospects. 

 of the Bahamas, Nassau N. P. April 17, 1886, by John Gardiner. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



natural obstacles, as in the lack of enterprise shown by the people 

 and the poor market facilities. The larger growers of pine apples, 

 bananas, etc., are Americans, and the islands present a most inviting 

 place for the employment of American capital and energy. Un- 

 like the Bermudas, deciduous trees are abundant and furnish a nat- 

 ural contribution and aid to cultivation, while the cedar, which 

 retards cultivation, is not of sufficient abundance to have any im- 

 portance. Large quantities of sea weed are available, which, 

 combined with cave earth and sand, would furnish a cheap and 

 available fertilizer. Most of the West Indies have had their flora 

 greatly enriched by the introduction of exotics through Government 

 or individual influence; the Bahamas, on the other hand, while offer- 

 ing a much more favorable and uniform climate than the Bermudas 

 or the more tropical islands, has been singularly neglected, and for- 

 merly cultivated fertile tracts have been allowed to grow up in dense 

 bush or to become denuded of soil. The present Government is 

 making a strong effort to develop the culture of Agave Mexicana 

 or Sisal Hemp* Botanists will find a rich and almost untouched 

 field in the cryptogamic flora of these islands, especially in the 

 Algae. 



The Sand-Dunes of Lewes, Del. — Prof. J. T. Rothrock spoke 

 briefly of the dunes at Lewes, Delaware, and illustrated his state- 

 ments by some photographs, recently taken by him at that place. 



It may be stated in advance that, while the conspicuous change 

 in the surface has been most marked toward Cape Henlopen, 

 the marshes between the Breakwater and the mouth of Lewes Creek 

 have been slowly rising : that whereas a few years ago these marshes 

 were a large number of times overflowed each year, that now this occurs 

 so seldom that the flats are being built upon, and regular crops of 

 marsh hay taken from them. South of the Breakwater, and say 

 one fourth of a mile inland, one encounters a mass of pure shore 

 sand, probably in its greatest depth one hundred feet deep, becom- 

 ing on the north and south and west less and less deep until one 

 reaches nearly the sea-level. On top of this ridge the dead trunks 

 of former forests rise out of the sand. On the northern slope they 

 become less and less abundant, disappearing when one reaches the 

 marsh level. North of this, toward the water's edge a second growth 

 of trees is seen appearing. On the southern slope of the ridge a 

 forest of Pinus rigida stands, but this forest, by the moving of the 

 sand toward the south, is being constantly encroached upon. 



Indeed, at present one may there see trees standing on the 

 natural level, in no wise surrounded or endangered by sand. A few 

 yards to the north of these is the face of the advancing sand hill. 

 There one finds the Pines in all stages of burial, from those whose 

 roots are barely touched, to those (sixty to eighty feet high) whose 



* Report of Ceorge Preston, Esq., as Special Commissioner to Yucatan to 

 Inquire into the working of the Fibre Industry in that Country. Nassau. N. P., 



I.sss 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



extreme tips alone remain above the sand. How many are abso- 

 lutely covered, one can hardly even guess. 



The force at work here is plain enough. The wind from the 

 north and north-east drives the sand to the hill-top, and when it 

 reaches the crest, gravity carries it down the southern declivity. 

 Once the forests have been killed, and the leaves are fallen, there is 

 nothing to arrest the force of the wind and the slow process of 

 uncovering the tree trunks by the sand drifting away from them 

 begins. This, however, appears to be simply shifted further south, 

 covering up fresh forests as it advances. While, therefore, ground is 

 being lost to the forests and to the hay makers in the south and west,, 

 there is a gain on the north, for enough of the sand remains there 

 to raise the general level of these meadows slightly, and to make them 

 less subject to frequent overflow. Indeed as we have seen, a second 

 forest growth is commencing on that very spot. 



To one familiar with the dunes on Cape Cod, those of Lewes are 

 striking from the fact of the absence of the wild rose, blueberries, 

 beach-plums, etc., which one finds so common in the Massachusetts 

 examples. They illustrate further, that we have on our own soil, and 

 within a few hours of this city, the same forces operating which were 

 so .destructive on the shores of the Bay of Biscay. These dunes 

 and trees suggest further that the same remedies which restored a 

 vast area (rescued from the sandy deluge) again to France may in 

 time have to be appealed to here. There is, however, this difference, 

 that whereas, in Europe, it was the Pinus Pinaster Soland. or 

 Maritime Pine that was used to make seaward barrier, we here can 

 safely depend upon the Pinus rigida or Pitch Pine, which is thriving 

 now at Lewes, to accomplish this same result. Indeed from Massa- 

 chusetts south to Lewes, here and there, in sight of the sea and on a 

 most sandy soil this tree is flourishing almost as well as it does on 

 the rocky hillsides in the interior of Pennsylvania. 



May 14. 



Mr. Edw. Goldsmith in the chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " Catalogue of the Muscicapidse in the Collection 



of the Academy," by Witmer Stone was presented for publication. 



Xotes on Corema Conradii. — Mr. J. H. Redfield stated at the 

 meeting of the Botanical Section of the Academy held May 13th, that 

 it had been supposed of late years that Corema Conradii Torr. had 

 disappeared from the pine barrens of New Jersey, the earliest reported 

 station for the plant. He referred to an unsuccessful search for it, 

 made by the late Charles F. Parker and himself in April, 1869, at 

 Cedar Bridge, Ocean Co., N. J., where Dr. Torrey had seen it in 

 1834 and had indicated the exact locality in the Annals of N". Y. Lye. 




136 • PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Nat. Hist. IV. 85. In a notice of that search given in the Proceedings 

 of the Academy for 1869, p. 91, Mr. Redfield had said, " If the Corema 

 is again to be discovered in New Jersey it will probably be in the 

 wide sandy waste a few miles west of Cedar Bridge, near the bound- 

 ary between Burlington and Ocean Counties, where a succession of 

 elevated ancient beaches offers conditions similar to those of Cape 

 Cod." He had now the satisfaction to report that about two years 

 ago the plant was discovered by Prof. Merrill of Columbia College, 

 N. Y., in the precise region which had been indicated. The place 

 was soon after visited by Prof. Britton, and in April of this 

 year, at the invitation of the latter, Mr. Arthur Hollick, Dr. J. B. 

 Brinton and Mr. Redfield had accompanied him in a visit to the local- 

 ity which lies about three miles west of Cedar Bridge, and about eleven 

 miles west of Barnegat. The region is most singular in its aspect and 

 impresses one with a sense of desolate loneliness. Forming the 

 divide or water-shed, it rises in gentle swells which command an 

 extensive view of a sandy desert leached by the rains to a degree 

 of barrenness such that the scattered trees of Pinus rigida can attain 

 the height of only three or four feet. The party was surprised 

 at the amazing extent of Corema, exceeding that of any locality 

 yet reported in the United States, being more or less abundant over 

 a tract nearly a square mile in extent, its scattered patches in some 

 places becoming confluent over large spaces. Myriads of young 

 seedlings were also springing up in the bare white sand, so that there 

 is little prospect of the plant becoming extinct. This is now the 

 most southern station known for Corema, and was probably the 

 origin of the few patches which Dr. Torrey found at Cedar Bridge, in 

 1834, but which had disappeared before 1869. 



The following communications were made in connection with the 

 proceedings of the Conchological Section : 



The Radula in Rhipidoglossate Mollusks.- — Mr. H. A. Pilsbry 

 spoke of the modes of specialization of the radula in rhipidoglossate 

 mollusks illustrating his remarks by black-board diagrams. He stated 

 that the marginal teeth undergo but slight variations throughout the 

 group. The reduction in number of the teeth consequent upon the 

 enlargement of the individual teeth takes place in the median por- 

 tion of the membrane, where differentiation of the primitive homo- 

 dont radula commenced. In the family Trochidre the outer lateral 

 teeth (next to the numerous undifferentiated marginal teeth) become 

 degenerate in the more specialized forms (Trochus, Clanculus, etc.) 

 which have only five perfect laterals, a sixth being represented by a 

 small plate without cusp or cutting point. In certain other genera of 

 Trochids, there are seven or more laterals. In Turbinidse and 

 Phasianellinre, on the other hand, the reduction in number of the 

 teeth proceeds by the obsolescence or total loss of the central tooth 

 (as in the group of Phasianelhe which the speaker had named 

 Orthomesus), or the loss of the cusp of the tooth, as in certain 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



sections of the genus Astralium. This process is followed by the 

 obsolescence of the inner lateral teeth, shown in certain species of 

 Astralium in which the cusps of these teeth are absent. The same 

 course had been followed in the Neritopsidse, where, as Dr. Fischer 

 has shown, the central and inner lateral teeth have been lost. 

 Attention was called to the anomalous radula of Phasianella uirgo 

 Angas, a species of Orthomesus in which the rhachidian tooth was 

 replaced by a false central tooth, formed by the coalescence of the 

 two inner lateral teeth. 



Remarks on Oliva inflata, Chem., 0. irisans, Lam. and other 

 species of shells. — Mr. John Ford exhibited a large number of 

 specimens representing Oliva inflata Chem. and Oliva irisans Lam. 

 In referring to the various colors and forms of the series shown he 

 called attention to the difficulties attendant upon a correct separa- 

 tion of the species comprised in the genus. As evidence of 

 thereof it may be said that fully one hundred and fifty names 

 have been applied to the species which altogether do not number 

 more than sixty. 



Mr. Tryon reduced the number to fifty-five, and a careful 

 examination of the Academy's collection will show no reason for 

 questioning his judgment. 



Very many of the discarded names were, by Marratt and other 

 writers, avowedly based upon color varieties only. A larger number, 

 however, may be safely charged to the lack of opportunity for 

 comparing the newly-discovered specimens with others already 

 named, and an absence of the literature referring to them. 



These latter difficulties can be readily comprehended if a casual 

 glance be given to the two species under consideration, showing as 

 they do at least twenty varieties of color, including one perfect 

 albino, and half as many different forms. And yet a close observa- 

 tion will satisfy the most skeptical student that certain characters 

 proving their specific distinction are present in each. 



These conclusions apply also to several other species belonging to 

 the genus,- — markedly so to 0. ispidu la Lam. 0. amneosa Lam., and 

 0. reticularis Lam., — each shell in the first-named species varying in 

 color, and often in form, from either of its otherwise closely allied 

 fellows. 



While much that has been said will apply with equal force to 0. 

 irisans, it has been deemed best in this instance to retain several of 

 the names formerly held as specific, but with the understanding that 

 they be used for varieties only. 



Thus we have as the type of the species, 0. irisans, Lam., and as 

 varieties, concinna Marratt, tremulina Lam., erythrostoma Lam. 

 and textilina Lam. 



With the series of 0. inflata shown, there are a dozen specimens 

 belonging to the species, but which are distinct in two characters 

 at least from all of the others. To these the varietal name Ovum- 

 ralli, has been given by the speaker. Though all of the specimens 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



are well developed, they are singularly pale in color, and have a 

 more delicate structure than any of the species heretofore observed. 



They are also ornamented with small chocolate-colored spots or 

 mottlings, quite unusual to the species. Though secured in one lot, 

 their habitat is still conjectural. 



Reference was also made to a new species of Helix, found in the 

 Island of Xew Guinea. 



This the speaker had named Helix Dentoni in honor of the dis- 

 coverer, Mr. Wm, Denton, who died while pursuing his researches 

 in the wilds of the island mentioned. The type, which has been pre- 

 sented to the Academy, was received from Mr. Geo. W. Dean, of 

 Kent, Ohio, to whom it was sent from New Guinea by the sons of 

 Mr. Denton. Its habitat is therefore established. 



The species belongs to the sub-genus Trachia, its nearest ally being 

 H Tuckeri, Pfr. ; but it may readily be distinguished from the latter 

 by the continuous peristome, more oblique aperture and deeper con- 

 striction of the whorl behind the lip. 



In reference to the lasting character of the colors of shells when 

 properly cared for, attention was called to a magnificent Triton 

 tritonis belonging to the speaker. This specimen is 18 inches long, 

 11 inches high, and has an expanse of lip 6 by 9 inches. Though 

 known to have been out of its native element for more than fifty 

 years, the external colors are still perfectly patterned and brilliant, 

 while the crimson and white sun-burst covering the inside of the lip 

 is a bit of coloring which an artist might envy. 



May 21. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



In connection with the proceedings of the Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section the following communication was made : — 



On the fore and aft poles, the axial differentiation and a possible 

 anterior sensory apparatus of Volvox minor. — Prof. J. A. Ryder 

 remarked that he had recently had an opportunity to study a very 

 large colony of Volvox minor Stein, which appeared in the aquarium 

 jars kept in the Conservatory of the Biological Department of the 

 University of Pennsylvania. As some of the singular features of 

 these alga? which he had noticed were apparently unrecorded, it 

 was desirable that they should be described in order that others 

 should have an opportunity to more fully investigate the facts and 

 their bearings upon the life-history of these singular organisms. 



It was noticed that there was an empty pole in every colony or 

 csenobium. This empty or non-spore-bearing pole was always the 

 anterior one, or that which was directed forwards in the act of 

 locomotion, which is effected by a rotating motion of the whole 




1889.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



caenobium impelled by the flagella of its cells projecting through its 

 envelope of cellulose. The direction of the rotation of the eaenobia 

 is not constant and may be either sinistral or dextral, but the 

 direction of progress always coincides with an imaginary axis pass- 

 ing through the centre of the anterior empty pole and the posterior 

 germ-bearing portion of the nearly spherical colony or caenobium. 

 These poles are sometimes differentiated before the young Yolvoces 

 leave their parent caenobium, which they do by breaking through 

 the wall of the latter at its hinder pole. 



The diameter of a Volvox caenobium is slightly longer measured 

 along the axis around which it revolves than in the direction trans- 

 verse to it. It results from this that the eaenobia are somewhat 

 smaller equatorially than axially so that the form of the whole is 

 that of a very slightly oblong spheroid. These characters are fairly 

 constant and nearly always apparent while that of the production of 

 the spore in a little more than the posterior hemisphere of the 

 caenobium is invariable as well as the uniform direction of the axis of 

 progressive locomotion in relation thereto. 



Another very extraordinary fact which was observed was that 

 the so-called " eye-spots " found in the flagellate cells of the anterior 

 pole of the spherical caenobium were the largest, and invariably 

 occupied a definite position with relation to the flagella and to the 

 axis around which the colony rotated. The anterior cells had the 

 brownish red " eye-spots " largest, and as one examined row after row 

 of the cells of the caenobium in succession backward toward what 

 one might term the caudal pole these "eye-spots" were seen to 

 gradually diminish in size, until in the last cells of the hinder pole, 

 they were barely distinguishable as minute reddish points, which 

 elevated the protoplasm of the cells into a slight prominence, such 

 as is more marked over the larger anterior '■ eye-spots. " This re- 

 markable fact of the " eye-spots " of the anterior pole being the 

 largest, revives in a striking way the query whether these reddish 

 bodies are not really visual organs or sense organs of some kind, 

 after all, as originally supposed by Ehrenberg. Their gradual 

 diminution in size toward the posterior pole where they are nearly 

 atrophied would seem to indicate that they were in some way 

 related to the power of the organism to move in a definite direction, 

 the cells of the anterior end being provided with the best developed 

 visual, sensory apparatus, or whatever it may be. If it should 

 prove possible to show that these "eye-spots" are really sensory 

 organs in Volvox, as all the facts which have been here noted would 

 seem to indicate, it would be one of the few instances known of a 

 plant possessed of visual or sensory organs of any kind unless we 

 except some such plants as the Venus' fly-trap. 



The speaker stated that he had been unable to find any notice of 

 any of the features of Volvox, which are here described ; all of the 

 figures to which he had had access in standard works were entirely 

 erroneous from their authors having completely overlooked these 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



very salient and important features of this remarkable plant. This 

 should therefore be regarded as his apology for bringing a very 

 common organism to the notice of the Academy, and to the renewed 

 attention of the microscopists who take pleasure in studying it. It 

 is to be hoped that some one who is skilled in such work maybe in- 

 duced to take up the study of Volvox anew and publish a well- 

 executed drawing of a colony in which the facts here recorded are 

 adequately represented. This is all the more desirable in that, if 

 Volvox is really a plant, its psychological history should be as much 

 a matter of interest as its singular beauty and its intricate methods 

 of reproduction seem to have been. 



May 28. 

 Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger in the chair. 

 Eighty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " A review of the American Species of Pria- 

 canthidse " by Willard L. Morrison. 



The following were elected members : — Emma Walter, Henry 

 Bentley, Henry C. Johnson, and William W. Meigs. 



George H. French of Carbondale, Ohio, was elected a correspond- 

 ent. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



ON SOME NEW SPECIES OF MOLLUSCA FROM THE 

 BERMUDA ISLANDS. 



BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The following species were obtained in the summer of 1888, 

 during a brief sojourn with a class of students from the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences. 



Chama Bermudensis. PI. VIII, fig. 1. 



Shell thick, ponderous, sub-cordiform ; the right valve consider- 

 ably smaller than the left, but yet thicker and deeper than in most 

 Chamas ; beak of left valve prominent, spirally incurved ; ligamen- 

 tal furrow in left valve deep, arciform ; dental sulcus broad, moder- 

 ately deep, and supported interiorly by a prominent plate tooth. 



Muscular impressions elongated, not deep. External surface 

 roughly corrugated by the lines of growth. 



Height of shell (left valve), measured to top of beak about three 

 inches; length, measured along the antero-posterior axis 2 - 3 inches ; 

 thickness of single valve 1*2— 1*5 inch. 



Dredged in large quantities in Harrington Sound. 



Macoma eborea. PI. VIII, fig. 2. 



Shell moderately inequilateral, truncated in the lower half of the 

 posterior slope ; anterior slope regularly declivous, the posterior 

 flattened. Right valve with widely diverging cardinal teeth, the 

 space between which receives the double-tooth (grooved medially) of 

 the left valve ; lateral teeth in right valve. 



Pallial sinus large, extending more than half across the shell ; 

 external surface (white) concentrically and delicately lined by the 

 lines of growth. 



Length of shell three-quarters of an inch ; height, two-thirds of 

 an inch. 



Mysia pellucida. PI. VIII, fig. 3. 



Shell thin, convex, ovally orbicular ; the umbones moderately 

 prominent; nolunule; hinge-line linear, a single medially-grooved 

 cardinal tooth in the left valve (resembling Felanid). 



Adductor impressions oval, not much elongated. Shell white, 

 nearly smooth. Length of single specimen somewhat over a halt- 

 inch ; height the same. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Cytherea Penistoni. PI. VIII, fig. 4. 



Shell sub-trigonal, the beaks prominently elevated; lunule cordi- 

 forni ; the dental characters normally those of the genus; anterior 

 lateral tooth (left valve) triangular, lamellar. 



Margin of shell even ; pallial sinus broad, directed upwards, and 

 not quite reaching the centre of the shell. Lines of growth closely 

 set, and even. Shell covered with a chestnut epidermis ; interior 

 purplish. 



Length '6 inch ; height "5 inch. 



It gives me pleasure to name this delicate, and abundantly 

 represented, Cytherea after my friend Miss A. Peniston, of Peniston's, 

 from whom I have received much valuable assistance in the prepara- 

 tion of my material illustrating the Bermudian fauna. 



Emarginula dentigera. PI. VIII, fig. 7. 



Shell flattened, scutiform, broadened posteriorly, and with the 

 apex slightly sub-central ; surface with radiating ribs, which alter- 

 nate in size — sometimes two smaller ones between each pair of large 

 ribs — and project (the larger ones) prominently beyond the general 

 margin. The impressed concentric lines give to the ribs a knobbed 

 appearance. Fissure fairly long, narrow. 



Length nearly # 25 inch ; height - 1 inch. 



Emarginula pileum. PL VIII fig. 6. 



Shell elevated, with the form of a Phrygian cap ; apex largely 

 posterior, well beaked; radiating lines alternate, deeply impressed by 

 the concentric lines of growth, and appearing knobbed. Fissure 

 moderately long, parallel-sided, and occupying the position of one of 

 the larger ribs. 



Length slightly exceeding a quarter of an inch ; height *2 inch. 



Caecum termes. PI. VIII, fig. 5. 



Shell arcuate, gradually increasing in size anteriorly, where it is 

 somewhat swollen ; surface longitudinally-costated, the costse appear- 

 ing slightly rugose near the swollen base through the passing of the 

 lines of growth. Mucro distinct, well excentric. 



Color of shell yellowish ; surface glossy. 



Length about '1 inch. 



This form appears to be fairly abundant. It may be readily dis- 

 tinguished from most of the other longitudinally-costated species by 

 the very nearly equal diameter of the shell, being only slightly 

 swollen basally. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



ON A NEW GENUS AND TWO NEW SPECIES OF OPHIURANS. 



BY J. E. IVES. 



In a collection of Ophiurans principally from the west coast of 

 North America, but also from localities in the Xorth and South 

 Pacific, recently received by the Academy from Mr. W. N. L<n king- 

 ton, there are two apparently undescribed forms, representing a new 

 genus and a new species respectively. 



They unfortunately have no locality attached to them. They are 

 described below. The figures representing the upper and lower 

 surfaces of the disk and of an arm, and the views of the side arm 

 plates near the base of an arm are enlarged two diameters. The 

 views of the outer and inner faces of an arm-bone of Ophioncus 

 granulosus have been magnified considerably (Figs. 4, 5). 



OPHIONCUS, n. g. 



Upper surface of disk covered with swollen plates and granulated ; 

 no notch in the disk over the base of the arms ; teeth few; no tooth 

 papilla? ; mouth papillae small, even, numerous ; side mouth shields 

 long, not meeting within ; arm spines, few, short, arranged on the 

 outer edge of the side arm plate ; upper and lower arm plates entire; 

 four genital openings in each interbrachial space. The genital open- 

 ings nearest to the mouth are long and narrow, and widest at their 

 inner ends ; the openings farthest from the mouth are small and 

 nearly circular. These four genital openings appear to have been 

 formed from the two usually found by the edges of each of the two 

 original slits meeting near their outer ends. I believe that Ophiura 

 is the only other genus of Ophiuridce possessing four genital openings. 

 In Ophiura, however, the inner opening is smaller than the outer one. 

 Ophioncus in general characters somewhat resembles Ophiozona, but 

 differs markedly in the swollen granulated plates of the disk and in 

 the presence of four genital openings and two tentacle scales. The 

 arm bones (figs. 4, 5) appear to have more resemblance to those of 

 Ophiozona than to those of any other genus. 



Ophioncus granulosus, n. sp. (Figs. 1-5.) 



Upper surface of disk covered with 

 irregular swollen plates, granulated ; small 

 irregularly oval, naked radial shields. 

 Lower surface of the disk covered with 

 smooth scales, granulated ; mouth shields, 

 ovate with the smaller end directed to- 




144 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



wards the mouth, partially granulated ; side mouth shields longer 

 than broad, inner ends not meeting within; teeth two or three, 

 conical, pointed, flattened from above downwards; mouth papillae 

 about eighteen to each mouth angle, small, closely placed, touching 

 one another, the inner ones bluntly conical and 

 becoming squarer as they pass outwards. Edge of 

 rz>.-r- the disk between the arms slightly swollen. Arms, 

 length not much greater than the diameter of the 

 disk, short, flat ; outer edges of the upper arm plates 

 convex, about twice as wide as the inner edge ; the 

 lateral edges straight ; side arm plates projecting forwards and out- 

 wards, meeting above and below only towards the tip of the arm, 

 bearing five short stout spiues, the lowest rather longer than 

 -2K the others and the base covered by the outer tentacle scale ; 

 Fig ;• sometimes near the base of the arm there are one or two 

 supplementary spines within and between the others; under arm 

 plates four-sided with the inner angles truncated, longer than broad, 



outer edge convex, wider than the inner 

 edge ; lateral edges concave ; two tentacle 

 scales, the inner one the larger of the two. 

 Diameter of the disk about 7 mm. ; length 

 of arms about 9 mm. 

 Color of single dried specimen, a very light brownish tint. 

 Ophioglypha Lockingtoni, n. sp. (Figs. 6-8.) 



Disk stout, flat ; dorsal surface with central 

 rosette of primary plates ; a similar plate in 

 each interbrachial space, and in each of the 

 interbrachial spaces of the edge of the disk ; 

 radial shields rounded pentagonal, about the 

 same size as the primary plates ; between the 

 larger plates there are smaller ones. Mouth 

 shields covering the greater part of the inter- 

 brachial spaces of the under surface of the disk, 

 ovate with the narrower end turned inwards ; 

 side mouth shields oblong ; outer pair meeting 

 along their whole length, and their outer ends resting upon the inner 

 end of the mouth shield ; the inner pair meeting along the greater part 

 of their length, and their >outer ends resting upon the inner ends of 

 the outer pair. The rest of the lower surface of the disk is covered 

 with a few smaller scales. Arms, short, strongly keeled ; upper arm 



Fig. 4. 



Fig. 5. 



Fig. 6. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 45 



plates convex, rounded hexagonal ; side arm plates convex, about 

 three times as high as broad, not meeting above or below, bearing a 

 single small arm spine rather more than halfway up the side of the 

 arm ; on some of the arm plates there are one or more extremely rudi- 

 mentary papillae; mouth tentacle pores opening into the mouth slit, and 

 having six; tentacle scales on the inner side and five on the outer; 

 five tentacle scales on the inner side of the sixth arm plate and one 

 tentacle scale on the outer side ; farther out the ten- 

 tacle scales on the outer side of the tentacle pores 

 disappear altogether ; papilla? of an arm comb about 

 \ < -»5^^l k "/ seventeen in number, squarish flat and touching each 

 <S^A^k^5 other and borne by a semicircular plate about four 

 Fig. 7. times as long as broad; under arm plates rather 



convex, irregularly hexagonal, longer than broad ; about nine mouth 

 papillae in each mouth angle, those at the side of the angle small 

 flattened, three rather larger pointed ones at the apex. Diameter of 

 disk 9 mm. ; length of arms 17 mm. 

 £J^ Color of the two dried specimens, dull straw. 



Thjs form approximates more or less to many of the 

 Fig. 8. species of this prolific genus but may be distinguished by 

 its large ovate mouth shields, and the following combination of 

 characters: — the possession of a single arm spine, the shape of the 

 upper and lower arm plates, and the arrangement of the plates 

 covering the disk. 



11 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



CATALOGUE OF THE MUSCICAPIDAE IN THE COLLECTION OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



BY WITMER STONE. 



The arrangement of the present list is based upon Sharpe's Cat- 

 alogue of the Birds in the British Museum. The number of species 

 of Flycatchers there recognized is 391, and the addition of the 

 species since described will swell the number to somewhat over 400; 

 but a considerable number of these will, I think, eventually be 

 reduced to mere varieties or geographical races. 



The Aeademy^colleetion contains 156 species of Muscicapidae 

 represented by 592 specimens and includes the types of 34 species. 



The principal individual collections included in the Academy 

 collection are as follows : — 



The collections of Gen. Massena, Duke of Rivoli and his son, the 

 Prince d'Esling, including specimens from all over the world. 



The Gould collection of Australian birds comprising the types of 

 the great work "The Birds of Australia." 



A collection of Indian birds made by Capt. Boys of the British 

 Army. 



Du Chaillu's collections in Western Africa containing the types 

 of many of Mr. Cassin's species. 



In the following list the localities given after each species are 

 those from which the Academy possesses specimens: 

 Hemichelidox sibirica (Gin.), India. 

 Microeca fascinans (Lath.), Australia. Gould collection. 

 Microeca assimilis Gould, W. Australia. Types of the species. 

 MrCROECA flayigaster Gould, Pt. Essington, Australia. Types. 

 Alseonax latirostris (Rafti.), India and Japan. 

 Alseonax adusta (Boie), Cape of Good Hope. 

 Alseonax comitata (Cassin). Types of the species, from Muni 



River, W. Africa. Collected by Du Chaillu. 

 Alseonax epulata (Cassin). Three specimens from W. Africa. 



Collected by Du Chaillu, including the type. 

 Batis capensis (Linn.), Cape ot Good Hope. 

 Batis senegalensis (Linn.), Africa. 

 Batis molitor (Halm.), Africa, 

 Batis pririt ( Vieill.), Elephant's Bay, AY. Africa. 

 Diapiiorophyia castanea i Eraser.). Gaboon district. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Bias musicus (Yieill.), Gaboon. Collected by Du Chaillu. 

 Artomyias fuliginosa (Verr.), Gaboon. Du Chaillu. 

 Artomyias ussheri Sharpe. 



One specimen collected by McDowell on St. Paul River, Siberia, 

 is referred to this species. The under parts are nearly uniform ashy 

 brown. 



Platystira cyanea (Mull.), West Africa. 

 Platystira peltata Sundew, Zanzibar. 

 Muscicapa grizola Linn., Europe and Africa. 



They include one from Cape of Good Hope and several from 

 Du Chaillu 's collection on Camma River. 

 Muscicapa griseisticta (Swinh.), Luzon. 

 Muscicapa lugens (Hartl.) 



Two specimens, male and young, types of M. Cassini Heine 

 collected by Du Chaillu on the Camma River, W. Africa. These 

 birds evidently belong to M. lugens as suggested by Mr. Sharpe 

 (Catalogue of Birds, vol. IX, p. 156). The under wing coverts 

 are cinereous, some of them more or less tipj^ed with white. The 

 young bird is spotted above with rufous and has the tail feathers all 

 tipped with white. 



Muscicapa atricapilla Linn., Europe Algiers, Morocco, etc. 

 Muscicapa collaris Bechst., Europe. 

 Muscicapa parva Bechst. 



A series from Europe and also two collected by Capt. Boys 

 in India which seem to belong here and not to the following species ; 

 indeed it seems probable that the two forms shade into one another 

 where their limits approach. 

 Muscicapa albicilla Pall., India. 

 Petroica leggii Sharpe (= P. multicolor of Gould's Birds of 



Australia). A fine series from S. and W. Australia, Tasmania 



and Kangaroo Island from the Gould collection. 

 Petroica phoexicea Gould, Types of the species. S. Australia 



and Tasmania. 

 Petroica multicolor (Gm.), (= P. erythrogaster of Gould's 



work), Norfolk Island. Gould col. 

 Petroica rhodinogastra (Drap.), Tasmania and S. Australia. 



Gould col. 

 Petroica rosea Gould. Types of the species. New South Wales. 

 Petroica goodenovii (Vig. and Horsf.), S. and W. Australia. 



Gould collection. I think it is doubtful whether P. ramsayi 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Sharpe is specifically distinct from this species, it is the western 

 form and is distinguished from P. goodenovii by having the 

 center of the throat red. In Gould's collection a Southern bird 

 has considerable red on the throat and among those from W. 

 Australia is a typical P. goodenovii. 

 Petroica bicolor (Vig. and Horsf), New South Wales. Gould 



collection. 

 Petroica toitoi (Garnot), New Zealand. 

 Petroica macrocephala (Gm.), New Zealand. 

 Petroica vittata (Quoy and Gaim.), Tasmania. Types of P.ftisca 



Gould. 

 Pratincola rubetra (Linn.), Europe and N. Africa. 

 Pratincola rubicola (Linn.), Europe. 

 Pratincola maura (Pall.), India. 

 Pratincola torquata (Linn.) 



A series from Cape of Good Hope including one albino. 

 Pratincola sybilla (Linn.) 



Several from Madagascar and one from Gaboon (the type of 

 P. sdlux Verr.) which seems identical with this species. (Proc. 

 Phila. Acad. 1889, p. 78.) 

 Pratincola leucura Blyth, Paree. 

 Pratincola caprata (Linn.), Luzon. 

 Erythromyias pyrrhonota (Midi, and Schl.), Timor. 

 Poliomyias luteola (Pall.), Java. 

 Muscicapula hyperythra (Blyth), Java. 

 Muscicapula maculata (Tickell), Borneo and Timor. 

 Smicrornis brevirostris Gould, Australia. 

 Smicrornis flavescens Gould. Type of the species, Pt. Essington, 



Australia. Gould collection. 

 Gerygone albtgularis Gould, New South Wales. Types. 

 Pseudogerygone culicivora (Gould), W. Australia. Types. 

 Pseudogerygone magnirostris (Gould), Pt. Essington, Australia, 



Types. 

 Pseudogerygone fusca (Gould), New South Wales. Types. 

 Pseudogerygone laevigastra (Gould), Pt. Essington, Australia. 



Types. 

 Pseudogerygone chloronota (Gould), Pt. Essington. Tvpes. 

 Chasiempis sandwichensis (Gm.), Sandwich Islands. 

 Miro australis (Sparrm.), New Zealand. 

 Metabolus rugensis (Hombr.), Adult male;- Ruk Island. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



PoecilodPvYAS superciliosus Gould, Central Australia. Types. 

 Hyliota flavigastra Swains., Senegambia. 

 Hyliota violacea Verreaux. 



Type of species obtained from Verreaux by Dr. Wilson and 

 also one collected by Du Chaillu, both from Gaboon. 

 Xanthopygia narctssina (Temm.), Japan. 

 Xanthopygia tricolor (Hartl.), Java. 

 Xanthopygia cyanomelaena (Temm.), Japan. 



One specimen bas the back quite green. 

 Tarsiger cyanurus (Pall.), Japan. 

 Tarsiger rufilatus (Hodgs.), Himalayas. 

 Tarsiger stellatus (Vieill.), Cape of Good Hope. 

 Lioptilus olivascens (Cassin). Type of species. 



This unique specimen was described as a Parisoma (Proc. Phil. 

 Acad. 1859, p. 52) and has been placed in the present genus by 

 Shai-pe. The specimen was collected by Du Chaillu on the Camma 

 River, West Africa ; it seems quite distinct from any other form 

 in the Academy's collection. 

 Stenostira scuta (Vieill.), Cape of Good Hope. 

 Parisoma plumbeum (Hartl.) 



Several specimens from the Camma River being types of Cassin's 

 P. melanurum, collected by Du Chaillu. One specimen, probably a 

 young bird, differs somewhat from the others: it is browner above 

 and has the under surface uniform brownish-ash, except the middle 

 of the abdomen which is white. The feathers of the wings and 

 rump are edged with fulvous, and the under tail coverts are rufous 

 as is the case in all the Gaboon specimens. 

 Parisoma layardi Hartl., Cape of Good Hope. 

 Hypothymis azurea (Bodd.), Bengal. 

 Hypothymis occipitalis (Vig.), Philippines and Java. 



This species is certainly very close to the preceding. 

 Chelidornix hypoxantha (Blyth), India. 

 Malurus cyaneus (Gm.), Xew South Wales. Gould collection. 

 Malurus gouldi Sharpe. (= M. longicauda of Gould's Birds of 



Australia.) S. Australia and Tasmania, Gould collection. 

 Malurus melanotus Gould. Types of the species. S. Australia. 

 Malurus splendens (Quoy and Gaim.), W. Australia. Gould 



collection. 

 Malurus leucopterus (Q. and G.), N. S. Wales. Gould col- 

 lection . 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Malurus elegans Gould, types of the species. AV. Australia. 



Malurus lamberti Vig. and Horsf., N. S. Wales and N. W. 

 Australia. Gould collection. 



Malurus AMABiLis Gould. One specimen doubtfully referred to 

 this species. 



Malurus pulcherrimus Gould, W. Australia. Types. 



Malurus melanocephalus Vig. and Horsf, N.S. Wales. Gould 

 collection. 



Malurus dorsalis (Lewin), (= M. broivnii of the Birds of Aus- 

 tralia), Pt. Essington. Gould collection. 



Erythrocercus maccallii (Cass.). Two specimens from W. Africa 

 collected by Du Chaillu. One is the type of the species. 



Trochocercus cyanomelas (Vieill.), Cape of Good Hope. 



Trochocercus nitens Cassin. 



Types of the species from Caiuma River, W. Africa, collected 



by Du Chaillu. I can not find any of the specimens referred to 



by Cassin as indicating another species. (Proc. Phila. Acad. 1859, 



P : 51.) 



Trochocercus borbonicus (Gm.), Reunion and Mauritius. 



Rhipidura flabellifera (Gm.), New Zealand. 



Rhipidura albiscapa Gould, S. Australia, also from the North and 



East Coast. Types of the species. 

 Rhipidura saturata Sharpe. 



One specimen of this species from Tasmania in Gould's collec- 

 tion is labelled "i?. albiscapa, Type;" the same as his other 

 specimens, so he evidently did not think the Tasmaniau form worthy 

 of specific distinction. 



Rhipidura fuliginosa (Sparrm.), New Zealand. 

 Rhipidura albicollis (Vieill.), Java. 

 Rhipidura rufifrons (Lath.), N. S. Wales, also one from Pt. 



Essington which is identical with the southern form. 

 Rhipidura semicollaris Mull, and Schl., Timor. 

 Rhipidura sp. 



One specimen from the Massena collection does not appear to 

 agree with any of the described species. Below it is very much like 

 R. rujifrons, the entire throat and neck are uniform black, the 

 feathers edged with white as they join the breast, and those of the chin 

 slightly tipped with white. Above the rufous color is confined to the 

 tail coverts and basal portion of the tail. The locality has not been 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



recorded and I think it hardly worth while to name the specimen 

 without further data as it may be a stage of some other species. 

 Rhipidura dryas Gould. 



Two specimens from Pt. Essington in the Gould collection 

 labelled " B. rufifrons, type " Mr. Gould did not recognize the two 

 forms as distinct until his supplement was published. It would 

 be much better if this and a number of other forms recognized as 

 species, in the British Museum Catalogue were considered as sub- 

 species as they, are, I think, nothing more than geographical races. 

 Rhipidura phoenicura Mull, and Schleg., Timor. 

 Rhipidura perlata Mull., Borneo and Sumatra. 

 Rhipidura setosa (Quoy and Gaim.), Two specimens from the 



Gould collection, types of R. isura Gould. 

 Rhipidura rufiventris (Vieill.), Timor. 

 Rhipidura javanica (Sparrm.), Java. 



There are also several specimens of the form described as 

 R.longicauda by Wallace, from the Indian Archipelago. 

 Rhipidura nigpitorquis Vig., Luzon. 

 Rhipidura albwrontata Frankl., Ceylon and Bengal. 

 Rhipidura tricolor (Vieill.), Ceram, 8. and W. Australia. 

 Neomyias euryura (Mull.), Java. 

 Zeocephus rufus (Gray), Philippines. 

 Terpsiphone paradisi (Linn.), Ceylon and India. 



The collection contains short-tailed birds in the reddish plumage 

 which are, I think, correctly referred to the adult female ; also pure 

 white adult males and several rufous-colored males apparently in full 

 breeding plumage. These latter show two varieties of coloring, one 

 uniform bay above including the wings and tail, breast gray, the 

 center tail feathers very long. The other differs in having several 

 of the secondai'ies and the outer tail feathers white, and the breast 

 pure white instead of gray. 

 Terpsiphone affinis (Blyth), Borneo and Java. 



This is certainly very close to the preceding. A specimen of the 

 Ceylon bird exhibits traces of black shaft lines and a specimen label- 

 led " Java " is typical T. paradisi. 

 Terpsiphone mutata (Linn.), Madagascar. 



Besides adult males and females which resemble the correspond- 

 ing stages of T. paradisi, there is a fine series of young males exhibit- 

 ing great variety of plumage the following being the most interesting: 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



No. 981 resembles the female but is rather brighter chestnut ; 

 tail feathers only slightly elongated, coverts and primaries edged 

 with white. 



No. 979 similar but with long central tail feathers. 



No. 978 similar but with one of the long feathers white and one 

 chestnut; the latter is the shorter, and the white one is spotted with 

 rufous and has the outer web black for half its length. 



No. 977 has both the long feathers white, the barbs and outer 

 webs marked with black. 

 Terpsiphone cristata (Gm.), Gaboon and alsoN. E. Africa. 



This is probably the most perplexing species of this difficult 

 genus, and after examining the types of Cassin's several species I 

 think Mr. Sharpe was perfectly justified in uniting them all under 

 T. cristata. The series collected by Du Chaillu in Gaboon contains 

 connecting links between all the more distinct phases of coloration, 

 and I think it is rather remarkable that Mr. Cassin did not notice 

 the identity of some of the forms at least. Very young males are 

 reddish above and gray beneath with the head and neck steel-green 

 and the under tail coverts rufous. 



No 991 is similar with white edgings to some of the wing feathers 

 and with the central tail feathers longer than the others. 



No. 988 apparently in breeding plumage is similar but has the 

 secondaries, with the exception of the innermost, white on the outer 

 webs, and the coverts pure white. • 



No. 990 has the under tail coverts gray, and the tail black and 

 rufous ; some of the secondaries are bordered with rufous and some 

 with white. This is the type of T. speciosa of Cassin. Various other 

 specimens are in about the same stage ; some have the tail feathers 

 red, some white, and others red, white and black on the same feathers. 

 There are also adult males (types of T. duchaUIui Cassin) and 

 intermediate forms between these and the red-backed stages men- 

 tioned above. 



Terpsiphone perspicillata (Swains.), Cape of Good Hope. 

 Terpsiphone tricolor (Fraser). 



A number of specimens from Gaboon collected by Du Chaillu, 

 exhibiting various stages of plumage. The bird which I take to be 

 the adult male is blue-gray above and bright orange-chestnut below, 

 head glossy steel-black. The female is similar but duller, while 

 the young birds are dull orange above and below. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



There are other stages in the collection which perhaps represent 

 the male in the first year. One is pure gray beneath, and gray 

 above strongly tinged with orange, tail orange bordered with gray 

 on the edges of the feathers ; wings gray, with the secondaries and 

 coverts bordered with rufous. Another differs in having the under 

 tail coverts and rump dull orange ; tail and wings uniform gray, the 

 latter slightly tinged with rufous on the greater coverts. 

 Terpsiphone rufiventeis (Swains.), St. Paul River and Senegal, 



W. Africa. 

 Terpsiphone princeps (Temm.), India and Japan. 

 Elminia longicauda (Swains.), Senegal. 

 Philentoma velatum (Temm.), Java and Borneo. 

 Philentoma pyrrhopterum (Temm.), Borneo and Sumatra. 

 Culicicapa ceylonensis (Swains.), Java. 

 Myiagra rubecula (Lath.) (= M. plumbea of the Birds of 



Australia). N. S. Wales. 

 Myiagra concinna Gould, Pt. Essington, Australia. Types. 

 Myiagra nitida Gould, Tasmania and N. S. Wales, iypes. 

 Myiagra vanikorensis (Quoy and Gaim.). 



A female from the Fiji Islands collected by the U. S. Exploring 

 Expedition. 



Myiagra latirostris Gould, Pt. Essington, Australia. Types. 

 Myiaojra rufigula Wallace, Timor. 

 Smithornis capensis (Smith), Natal. 

 Cryptolopha burkii (Burton), India. 

 Cryptolopha arivirgata (Strickl.), Java. 

 Seisura inquieta (Lath.), N. S. Wales, S. and W. Australia. 



Gould collection. 

 Arses kaupi Gould. 



Two males from Cape York, Australia. Mr. Sharpe in his key 

 to the species and in his description gives the chin as pure white, 

 whereas it is black as is distinctly shown in Gould's plate. 

 Piezorhynchus alecto (Temni.), N. W. Coast of Australia. 

 Piezorhynchus nitidus Gould, Pt. Essington. Types of species. 

 Piezorhynchus nigrimentum Gray, Moluccas. 

 Piezorhynchus gouldi (Gray), Moreton Bay, Torres Strait and 



Pt. Essington, Australia. Gould collection. This bird I think 

 is not specifically distinct from P. trivirgatus. It is described as 

 " only to be distinguished by the absence of white on the fourth outer 

 .tail feather, the three outermost only tipped with white." One of 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Gould's specimens has the fourth tail feather tipped with white show- 

 ing that this character does not always hold. 



Piezorhynchus leucotis (Gould), Rockingham Bay, Australia. 

 Piezorhynchus chrysomelas (Gin.), New Ireland. 

 Mornarcha melanopsis (Vieill.), N. S. Wales andPt. Essington. 



Gould collection. 

 Monarcha inornatus (Gaim.), Amboina, Moluccas. 

 Pomarea nigra (Sparrm.), Tahiti. Society Islands. 



A line series, representing the supposed adult sexes and young 

 in various plumages. As the sex has not been marked on the 

 labels I cannot say whether Mr. Sharpe was correct in considering 

 the white-backed bird as the adult female. 

 Stoparola indigo (Horsf), Java and Timor. 

 Stoparola albicaudata (Jerd.), India. 

 Stoparola melanops (Vig.), India. 



One female specimen exhibits the black marks which character- 

 ized Mr. Gray's N. spilonota. 

 Stoparola thalassinoides (Cab.). 



Specimens from Sumatra which apparently belong to this species 

 have no black before the eye. 

 Stoparola panayensis (Sharpe) ? 



A female collected by Capt. Boys comes very close to this 

 species. It has a black Hue in front of the eye but otherwise agrees 

 very well with the description. I can not be certain of its identity 

 without comparison of specimens. 

 Siphia hyacintha (Temm.), Timor. 

 Siphia rubeculoides (Vig.), India. 

 Siphia elegans (Temm.), Borneo and Sumatra. 

 Siphia tickelliae (Blyth) ? 



One specimen referred doubtfully to this species. 

 Siphia banyumas (Horsf), Java. 

 Siphia philippinensis (Sharpe), Luzon. 

 Siphia turcosa (Briigg.). One specimen without locality, appears 



to be this species. 

 Digenia solitaria (Mull.), Sumatra. 

 Niltava sundara Hodgs., India. 

 Niltava grandis (Blyth), Himalayas. 



Cassinia fraseri (Strickl), Muni River, W. Africa. Du Chaillu. 

 Cassinia semipartita. (Riipp.), N. E. Africa. 




1889.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 155 



June 4. 

 Mr. Theo. D. Rand in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



June 11. 

 Rev. H. C. McCook, D. D., Vice President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present, 



A paper entitled " Description of new species of fossil Crustacea 

 from the Low T er Silurian of Tennessee with remarks on others not 

 well known," by J. M. Saflbrd and A. W. Yogdes was presented for 

 publication. 



June 18. 

 Mr. Harold Wingate in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



The death of Mr. Geo. Y. Shoemaker, a member, was announced. 



The proceedings of the Biological and Microscopical Section 

 having precedence the following communications were made in 

 connection therewith : — 



Heterocercy in Batrachia. — Prof. Ryder remarked that in some 

 larvae of Amblystoma, species not determined, the tip of the tails of 

 individuals from one to two weeks old were drawn out into an 

 acute point ; this acute point was invariably flexed upward. This 

 fact is of interest since it may be a transitory or evanescent exhibi- 

 tion of traces of the heterocercal condition seen in the tails of fishes. 

 If it is to be so interpreted, it would seem that somewhere in the re- 

 mote past the Urodelous Batrachians had a heterocercal fish-like 

 ancestor. 



The Hypertrophied Hairs on Ampelopsis. — Prof. Ryder remarked 

 that he had lately noticed that some of the hairs on the leaves, 

 petioles and tendrils of Ampelopsis trieaspidata or Veitehii, hort. 

 were very greatly enlarged. These hypertrophied hairs as they 

 proved to be, have no uniform distribution. Their development 

 is anomalous and some young leaves and tendrils are without 

 them. They are found only on the young growing shoots of the 

 plant. These hairs are covered with an epidermis inclosing a few 

 very large, thin-walled cells. They are colorless and contain 

 little or no chlorophyll. They vary greatly in form. What their 

 function is was not made out. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Notes on Enteridium Eozeanum — Mr. Harold Wingate pre- 

 sented verbally the following- description of the species: — 



Exteridicm Rozeaxum (Rki.), Retieularia (?) Rozeana Rki., 

 Monogr. Sup., No. 179. — Aethalium of irregular shape, globose, ovoid 

 or rounded-pyramidal, attached to the substratum by a wide base. 

 Variable in size from 5 to 30 M. in diameter. Cortex and mass of 

 spores ferruginous-brown ; occasionally the cortex shining ; sometimes 

 membranaceous, pellucid. Interior structure very variable, the 

 walls of the individual sporangia (which form a capillitium), mem- 

 branaceous, pellucid, band-like, combined into an all-sided network 

 attached uniformly to all sides of the cortex. The bands have tri- 

 angular or polygonal expansions at the angles where they join each 

 other. Spores globose, about two-thirds of the surface covered 

 with a delicate, regular, fine-meshed network, the remainder with 

 .simple warts or elongated ridges. The warted portion has the 

 outline of a wide spindle, the points of the spindle lying at the 

 poles of the little sphere. Spores measure 7*5-9 ink. Found fre- 

 quently in Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, Pa. 



The spaces in the capillitium, which represent the individual 

 sporangia of the aethalium, have about the same dimensions in the 

 same plant, but vary considerably, comparing one specimen with 

 another. The extremes of variation may be expressed by the pro- 

 portion 1 to 10. Sometimes the bands of the capillitium are very 

 much lacerated longitudinally, and form a filamentous mass, where 

 the characteristic structure of the genus is entirely lost after the 

 dispersal of the spores. Capillitium yellowish under the microscope. 



This plant has a rather interesting history. Mr. Ernest Roze, of 

 Paris, studied the development of the myxomycetes quite a number 

 of years ago by a method of culture which consisted of using 

 earthenware dishes filled with sphagnum and water, into which he 

 thrust dead branches of trees, pieces of rotting stumps, etc., which 

 he brought from the woods in the neighborhood of Paris. He ob- 

 tained by this method various plasmodia, studied them up to their 

 fructification, and in the "Bulletin de la Soeiete Botanique de 

 France" (Tomes xix and xx), he gave the results of his experi- 

 ments and his ideas upon the group. 



In the spring of 1875 Mr. Roze obtained by culture a plasmodium, 

 which, if his memory does not deceive him, was white. This pro- 

 duced aethalia which he was unable to identify, so he placed them 

 aside for future study. Towards the end of the year, Dr. Rosta- 

 finski, who had in preparation his monograph, visited Paris, and 

 examined among other collections there, that of Mr. Roze. Among 

 numerous plants offered him for inspection, were the above men- 

 tioned aethalia which struck his attention immediately. He ex- 

 pressed his surprise to Mr. Roze, who told him to take the plants 

 with him. This he did, but no description of this myxomycete ap- 

 peared in the monograph, owing, probably, to the limited quantity 

 of the material, and, as Mr. Roze suggested, the possibility of the 

 plant being abnormal from the manner of its production. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



In the supplement to the monograph, Xo. 179, however, Dr. 

 Rostafinski described the plant as follows : — 



"Retieularia (/) Rozeana Rki. — Aethalia of irregular shape,, 

 rounded, attached to the substratum by a wide base. Cortex, 

 columella, capillitium and mass of spores uniformly ferruginous- 

 brown. Cortex thin, membranaceous, irregularly perforated. Cap- 

 illitium composed of thin threads with flat membranaceous ex- 

 pansions, joined into an all-sided net. Spores irregularly globose, 

 very much warted, 8*3 mk. wide. 



Note. — The aethalia run about 1} cm. wide, a few about the 

 size of a pea. Surface slightly shining, under the magnifying glass 

 uneven, with point-like depressions. Examined under the micro- 

 scope it is a delicate membrane, slightly colored, with numerous 

 small, irregular perforations. Over the bottom of the aethalium 

 are raised, very numerous, small, membranaceous, flattened, short, 

 • lark-brown columellas, running further into the net of the capilli- 

 tium. The latter is composed of filaments with a not entirely 

 smooth outline, running very often into triangular or quadrangular, 

 membranaceous expansions, the last arms attached to the external 

 cortex, sometimes running into the wall. The species is included 

 temporarily in the genus Reticularia, as its individual history which 

 might throw some light upon the organization of the curious 

 aethalium, remains uninvestigated. In the meanwhile, we may 

 work upon the hypothesis, which is highly probable, that Re- 

 ticularia Rozeana is an aethalium composed of degenerate sporangia. 



It differs from R. lycoperdon particularly in its cortex, which is 

 not deposited in layers, but is a delicate membrane. Besides its 

 weakly developed columellas and the spores with the entire surface 

 uniformly warted, make it a good distinct species." 



In his correspondence with Mr. Roze the speaker asked him if he 

 could furnish a specimen of this species, suspecting that he (the 

 speaker) had the plant already in his herbarium. As Dr. Rostafinski 

 had gotten all the material Mr. Roze had obtained, the question had 

 to remain unsettled. By watching the locality from which the wood 

 came that produced the original specimens, Mr. Roze was rewarded 

 by finding in 1887 under natural conditions, an example of the plant, 

 and was kind enough to send a portion of it. The plant as was 

 suspected, proved to be one of our quite frequent species in the 

 neighborhood of Philadelphia, probably found in North American 

 collections as a variety of Retlcularia lycoperdon, Bull* The 

 external appearance of the two plants is very similar,, and the 

 spores, unless very carefully examined, nearly alike in structure. 

 In R. lycoperdon the warted portion of the spore has a circular out- 

 line, while in E. Rozeanum it has a spindle-shaped outline, the 

 remainder of the spore in each case being covered with a rine-meshed, 

 delicate network. 



*The plant may also be found in the Schweinitz Collection in the Acad. 

 Nat'l. Sc, Philada. under the name of Licea fiillax, Pers. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



In the meanwhile, Dr. Geo. A. Rex, in studying the variations of 

 this myxomycete was the first to recognize the true genus of the 

 plant, and was prepared to make a new species of it under the 

 name of Enteridium umbrinum, Rex. As Dr. Rostafinski left the 

 question of the genus to be decided as opportunity might determine, 

 the plant can now find its place in our systematic botany under the 

 name of Enteridium Rozeanum, with its description amended as 

 above given. 



June 25. 

 Rev. H. C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" The Phylogeny of the Sweat Glands," by Prof. John Ryder. 



" Notes on the osteology and systematic position of Dinictis Febna 

 Leidy," by W. B. Scott, * 



Mr. Uselma C. Smith was elected a member of the Council for the 

 unexpired term of the late Mr. Geo. Y. Shoemaker. 



Messrs. A. Sydney Biddle and "William Gerlach were elected 

 members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



A REVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF PRIACANTHID.E. 

 BY WILLARD L. MORRISON. 



In the present paper I have attempted to give the synonymy of 

 the genera and species of fishes of the family of Priacanthidse (Big- 

 Eyes or Catalufas) found in American waters, with analytical keys 

 by which the species can be recognized. 



The specimens examined by me are all in the Museum of the 

 Indiana University, duplicate series having been sent to the U. S. 

 National Museum. 



I recognize the Priacanthidse as a family distinct from the 

 Serranidse, from which it is apparently an off-shoot. 



I am indebted to Dr. D. S. Jordan for the use of his library and 

 other invaluable aid in the preparation of this paper. 



The family may be thus defined : 



Perciform fishes with the body oblong or ovate, covered with 

 small, firm, rough scales ; all parts of the body and head, and even 

 snout and maxillarfes being densely scaly. Head deep ; mouth large, 

 very oblique, lower jaw prominent. Bands of villiform teeth on 

 jaws, vomer and palatine, none on tongue. Premaxillaries pro- 

 tractile ; maxillaries broad, without supplemental bone, not slipping 

 under the very narrow preorbital. Eye very large, its diameter 

 nearly half the head. Posterior nostrils slit-like, vertical, near the 

 eye. Preopercle more or less serrated, with one or more spines at the 

 angle. Operculum very short, ending in two or three points 

 behind. Gill membranes separate, free from the isthmus ; pseudo- 

 branchiae large ; gills four, a slit behind the fourth ; gill-rakers long, 

 slender, toothed. Branchiostegals 6. Lateral line continuous, high, 

 forming an angle below spinous dorsal. Dorsal fin continuous, with 

 about 10 spines, depressible in a groove. Anal spines 3 ; soft part 

 of anal long, similar to soft dorsal, and terminating opposite to the 

 termination of dorsal. Vertebrae (cruentatus) 3+13. Ventral* large, 

 thoracic, 1, 5, attached to body by membrane ; pectorals small, round- 

 ed, with 16 to 19, rays; caudal fin truncate or lunate, of about 18 

 rays. Skull almost flat between the eyes, with a long, thin and high 

 occipital crest. 



These fishes inhabit deep waters in the tropics. They are of 

 moderate size and most of them are rose-colored in life. The species, 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889.. 



about 20 in number, seem to be referable to two genera ; distinguished 

 bv the following characters : — 



Analysis of Genera of Priacanthidce. 



a. Scales very small, 80 to 100 in the lateral line ; body oblong, 

 more than twice as long as deep ; preopercle with a spine at angle ; 

 interorbital area externally transversely convex, the cranium itself 

 transversely concave, the elevation being formed of flesh ; a con- 

 spicuous foramen in the interorbital area ; lateral line extending up- 

 ward and backward from upper angle of gill opening toward second 

 dorsal spine, below which it changes its course, following outline of" 

 back to end of dorsal fin, thence direct to middle of caudal ; anal fin 

 rather long, its rays about III, 14 ; dorsal rays about X, 13. 



Priacanthus. 1. 



<(«. Scales large, very rough, 35 to 50 in the lateral line ; body 

 ovate, not twice as long as deep ; preopercle with 2 small spines at 

 angle. Interorbital space broad and flat, there bring no flesh be- 

 tween skin and skull ; no foramen in interorbital area ; lateral line 

 changing its course below the fourth dorsal spine ; anal short, its 

 rays III, 9; dorsal X, 11. Psuudopriacanthus. 2. 



PRIACANTHTJS. 



Priacanthus Cuvier, Regne Animal Ed. II, 1829. (Macrophthal- 

 mus.) 



Type : Anthias macrophthalmus Bloch. 



Etymology, prion, saw ; akantha, spine ; from the serrature of the 

 spines. 



Analysis of American species of Priacanthus. 



a. Ventrals moderate, not extending beyond second anal spine ;, 

 dorsal and ventrals pale. 



b. [First spine only of dorsal and anal finely serrated, the others 

 smooth ; preopercle with its angle terminating in an oblique point ; 

 smaller than the spine in the next species ; depth SI in total length 

 (male) or about 2* in length to base of caudal ; length of head equal 

 to depth; eye 23 in head; opercle with a flat pointed spine which 

 does not project ; supraclavicle with prominent edge ; caudal slightly 

 lunate, the upper lobe the longer ; scales smaller near the back ; D. 

 X, 14; A. Ill, 15 ; lateral line 95. "Base of skull pierced with a 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



large hole between the great wing and the base of the superior 

 sphenoid."] {Poey.) catalufa. 1. 



bb. Body deep, the depth 3 in total length (with caudal ; 2| to 

 base of caudal) ; dorsal and anal spines all finely serrated in front ; 

 preopercle with a flat, triangular spine ; length of head nearly equal 

 to distance from lateral line to edge of belly ; eye 2 in head ; oper- 

 cular spine very small ; last dorsal spine If the length of second ; 

 pectorals small, little longer than eye. Mouth large, oblique ; 

 maxillaries reaching nearly to middle of the eye, 2 in head ; caudal 

 slightly notched ; roof of mouth with longitudinal ridges : upper 

 limb of preopercle almost vertical ; dorsal X, 13 to 14; anal III, 

 14 to 15. Lateral line 84. Skull without foramen below; color 

 rose, the back brownish, the dark color of the back sometimes form- 

 ing rounded blotches on sides ; dorsal fin with small dark spots. 



CRUENTATUS. 2. 



aa. [Ventrals very long, extending to third soft ray of anal; 

 dorsal and ventral fins almost entirely black. All the rays and 

 >[>ines of dorsal and anal fins with striated or roughened surface; 

 preopercle with a cylindrical spine ; depth of body 2f in total 

 length ; head 31 ; diameter of eye 3 in head ; operculum with two 

 short spines ; a larger one above belonging to scapular bone ; length 

 of second dorsal spine nearly three times in that of the last ; pectorals 

 yellowish ; D. X, 13 ; A. Ill, 13 ; lateral line 80.] (Gunther.) 



BONARIENSIS. 3. 



1. Priacanthus catalufa. 



Catalufa Parra, Dif. Piezas Hist. Nat., 1787, plate 20 (Havana). 



Priacanthus catalufa Poey, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phil., 1863, 

 182 (Havana) ; Poey, Repertorio I, 1867, 274 ; Poey, Synopsis, 

 1868, 302; Poey, Enumeratio 1875,38. 



Priacanthus macrophthalmus Gill. Kept. U. S. F. C. for 1871-2, 

 807. ("Occasional northwards.") (Not of C. & V.) 



Habitat. West Indies, occasional northwards in the Gulf Stream. 



Etymology, Catalufa, common name of the species at Havana. 



This species is unknown to me. From the accounts given by Parra 

 and Poey, it would seem to be more elongate than the next species, 

 and Poey has indicated a differential character in the structure of 

 the skull. Not having seen the skull I find it difficult to under- 

 stand the character in question. 



12 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Since writing the above, Dr. Jordan has examined, at my request, 

 small specimens in the U. S. National Museum, from Wood's Holl 

 and Newport. These seem to belong to P. catalufa rather than to 

 P. cruentatus. Compared with the latter, these are more slender, 

 depth 2| in length; eye smaller, 2£ in head, and the preopercular 

 spine much smaller. In these specimens, the dorsal is unspotted, 

 having only a dark shade across it ; along the lateral line are eight 

 small black spots, which probably disappear with age. 



2. Priacanthus cruentatus. 



Big Eye ; Catalufa. 



Labrus cruentatus Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss. Ill, 1800, 522 

 (from a copy by Aubriet of a plate made by Plunder at Martinique). 

 Priacanthus cruentatus, Cuv. & Val., Ill, 1829, 102; Poey, Syn. 

 Pise. Cub., 1868, 302 ; Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub. 1875, 40. 



Priacanthus cepedianus Desmarest, Prem. Dec. Ichthy. 1823, 9, 

 plate 1 (Havana) ; Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub. 1868, 302 ; Poey, Repertorio 

 1, 1867, 273 ; Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub. 1875, 39. 



Priacanthus maerophthalmus Cuv. & Val. Ill, 1829, 97 ; Gunther 

 I, 1859, 215 (Cuba, Jamaica, Madeira) (not Anthias maerophthalmus 

 Bloch, an East Indian species) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. 

 A. 1883, 544. 



Priacanthus arenatus Cuv. & Val. Ill, 1829, 101 (Brazil) (de- 

 scription very brief). 



Priacanthus ful gens Lowe, Trans, Zool. Soc. Ill, 1838, 174. 



Habitat. 



Etymology, cruentatus, bloody. 



I identify the specimens collected by Dr. Jordan at Havana with 

 the Pr. cepedianus of Poey, rather than with his Priacanthus catalufa. 

 They agree most closely with the description of Pr. cepedianus of 

 Desmarest. The description and figure of Labrus cruentatus Lace- 

 pede are very far from accurate, but it seems almost certain that it 

 was drawn from a specimen of this species in which the dark mark- 

 ings on the side were more distinct than usual. 



Poey recognizes cruentatus and cepedianus as distinct species but 

 lie says that they differ only in color. 



Since writing the above, two mounted specimens have been 

 received by the museum of the Indiana University. These were 

 sent by Poey from Havana under the name of Priacanthus 

 cepedianus. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



3. Priacanthus bonariensis. 



Priacanthus bonariensis Guv. & Val. Ill, 1829, 105 (Buenos 

 Ayres) ; Giinther, I, 1859, 216. (South America.) 



Habitat. Atlantic Coast of South America. 



Etymology, from Buenos Ayres. 



This species is known to me from descriptions only. 



PSEUDOPRIACANTHUS. 



Pseudopriacanthus Bleeker, Versl. Ak. Wet. Amsterd., 1869, 

 241 (niphonius). 



Type Priacanthus niphonius C. & V., from Japan. 



Etymology, pseudos, false; Priacanthus. 



This genus is distinguished from Priacanthus by its deeper form, 

 its larger and rougher scales, its shorter anal fin, and by several 

 peculiarities of form. Two species are known, the one West Indian, 

 the other from Japan. 



Analysis of the American species of Pseudop? iaeanthus. 

 a. Head, 3 in length to base of caudal ; 1J in depth ; depth 2 in 

 length to base of caudal ; eye 2 in head, placed very high ; chin 

 very rough ; profile from*first dorsal spine to chin straight ; snout 

 extremely short and blunt ; mouth large and very oblique. Maxil- 

 laries reaching almost to the middle of eye, If in head; spines 

 striated, not serrated ; preopercle serrated ; an embedded spine at 

 angle of opercle ; preorbital roughly serrated ; scales large and very 

 rough; base of dorsal 2? times base of anal; tips of soft dorsal 

 reaching beyond base of caudal ; soft rays of dorsal, anal and ventrals 

 rough or serrated throughout ; caudal truncate ; ventrals large, ex- 

 tending to first ray of anal ; pectorals small, about as long as eye ; 

 fourth and last dorsal spines of equal length, second H times the 

 first, sixth the longest. Color scarlet red ; ventrals tipped with 

 black ; D. X, 12 ; A. Ill, 9 ; lateral line 40 to 50. altus. 4. 



4. Pseudopriacanthus altus. 



Priacanthus altus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1862, 132 

 (very young specimen from Narragansett Bay) ; Jordan & Gilbert, 

 Syn. Fishes X. A., 1883, 545 (from original type). 



Pseudopriacanthus altus, Jordan & Eigenmann, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus. 1887, 269 (Charleston). 



Pseydopriaeanthus ? Poey, Enumeratio, 1875, 40 (Havana). ' 



Habitat. Atlantic Coast of U. S. and West Indies, in deep water 

 (Rhode Island, Charleston, Pensacola, Havana). 



Of this rare species I have examined two adult examples 8 and 10 



inches in length from Charleston and Pensacola. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



GADOLINITE FROM LLANO CO., TEXAS. 

 BY E. GOLDSMITH. 



The specimen so called which came from the above locality is in 

 the Wm. M. Vaux Collection of the Academy and is of unusual size. 

 It appears as a rough orthorhombic crystal. A piece broken off at 

 one end revealed the fact that the crystal was not homogeneous 

 throughout. Within, a glassy material surrounded by a rather thick 

 layer of perfectly dull appearance indicated that it was made up of 

 at least two different minerals. I procured from the mineral dealer 

 fragments of these two substances for investigation. The inner or 

 vitrous substance proved to be Gadolinite. In mass the color is 

 deep black and opaque but, when a thin plate is prepared by grind- 

 ing, it appears green. Beneath the microscope apparently all is 

 homogeneous, only a few minute black spots are noticed. Between 

 the two nieol prisms it was not at all affected, even when the ray 

 passed through it parallel or convergent. The field of the crossed 

 nicols became darker when the plate was placed between them. 

 The apparent form is therefore misleading. Supposing the optical 

 laws of crystallized bodies to be correct, I arrive at the conclusion 

 that the crystal found is either isometric or pseudomorphous. 



Fracture conchoidal and uneven. Hardness = 6. Sp. Gr. = 

 4*276. It affords no streak on unglazed porcelain and it is brittle ; 

 the powder is grayish-green. 



For analysis the substance was selected with care and was easily 

 decomposed by hydrochloric acid, the silica gelatinizing. 



The result was as follows : 



Silica 25-70 per cent. O = 13-7 



Ittria 58-30 " " = 12 



Iron monoxide 15*52 " "= 3*44 



Glucina 2-10 " " = 1*32 



The oxygene ratios of the silica to the monoxyds is as 1 : 1*2, 

 therefore nearly 1 : 1 which corresponds fairly with one of Berlin's 

 analysis of material from Ytterby, except that he found in all his 

 investigations cerium, small quantities of alkalies and alkaline 

 earths. I took special pains to trace the presence of cerium but 

 could not detect it. The ittria found was dissolved as nitrate and 

 the concentrated solution examined spectroscopically for erbia, but 

 none was found. I confess to not knowing a reliable process for 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



separating either erbia or terbia, hence the results obtained can 

 only be considered approximate. 



The material enveloping the Gadolinite seems to be amorphous ; 

 dull, with an uneven fracture and brittle ; its color is grayish brown ; 

 streak red, when powdered bright red. 



It was found necessary the float off the suspended part in water 

 from another portion which was not decomposable by hydrochloric 

 acid, and this was repeated until a sample was wholly decompos- 

 able by that acid. The silica did not gelatinize. 



Hardness = 3. Sp. Gr. = 3-494. 



Not fusible before the blow-pipe. The fluxes indicated iron ; 

 heated in a tube it gave water. Heated with carb. soda upon char- 

 coal it afforded a dark brown slag. 



The analysis indicated great complexity of mixture : — 



f cent. O = 9-676 



The approximate O ratios of the sum of the monoxycls are equal 

 to the tetraoxyds, or about two, whilst the O ratio of the dioxyds 

 and the sesquioxyds are each nearly one, hence this general 

 expression is proposed. : — 



2 (RO+R 3 4 ) Si0 2 (R 2 3 ) 



The question whether this substance is a mixture or not, I en- 

 deavored to solve by this consideration : sesquioxydes of iron as 

 goethite, limouite, etc., are respectively soluble to some extent in a 

 strong solution of citric acid ; if any of these oxyds should be mixed 

 or occur as such in the mineral a test with that acid would indicate 

 the fact. The test was made ; for several hours the fine red mineral 

 powder was kept in contact with a strong solution of citric acid at 

 ordinary temperature, about 70° F. and agitated occasionally with 

 no effect. If heated on steam bath the effect was very slight. It 

 seems, therefore, that the substance is not a mixture, but a hyd rated 

 tribasic silicate in which the water is conceived to be substitutable 

 for any other monoxyde. 



The ittria was also tested optically for erbia with negative result. 



I am not aware that this material over the Gadolinite has been 

 named. I propose for it the name Metagadolinite. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



DESCRIPTION OF NEW SPECIES OF FOSSIL CRUSTACEA FROM 



THE LOWER SILURIAN OF TENNESSEE, WITH REMARKS 



ON OTHERS NOT WELL KNOWN. 



BY J. M. SAFFORD AND A. W. VOGDEiS. 



Ampyx Americanus, n. s. 



General outline broadly oval, glabella some- 

 what claviforin, slightly convex, narrowing 

 ....■' ..... behind the middle and widening out slightly 



at its junction with the occipital ring ; it is 

 marked at each side by one or more oblique 

 furrows, the condition of the three specimens 

 before us do not clearly indicate more than 

 one pair. Projecting spine broken off. The 

 cheeks are broad and rounded towards the 

 margins. Genal spines broken off. Facial 

 sutures not observed. 



The axis is broad anteriorly and gradually 

 diminishes, being well denned by its broadly convex form ; the rings 

 are deeply furrowed centrally. The pleura? are six in number, 

 straight and deeply grooved, terminating in obtusely pointed points, 

 similar to those of Ampyx nudus. [Barrande Syst. Sil. Boheme, 

 Vol. 1, PL 5, fig. 14.] 



The pygidium is triangular in form, the axis being prominent, 

 gently tapering to an obtuse point on the posterior border. It is 

 marked with 13 or more rings, with a central row of nodes. The 

 sides have only one pair of side ribs, which are deeply furrowed out- 

 wards cutting off the posterior portion of the tail. 



Geological position and locality, Trenton group, near Bulls Gap 

 on the road to Russelville, Tenn. Cabinet of J. M. Safford. 



Affinities : We have compared the Tennessee species with the 17 

 described species of the genus Ampyx and find that it differs in 

 detail from all of them. It has affinities with Ampyx nasutus, Dalrn. 

 which has the same number of thoracic segments, its pygidium being 

 marked with only one lateral side furrow on each side. From this 

 A. Americanus can be readily distinguished by its glabella, broader 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



pygidium and its central row of nodes along the axis of the pygi- 

 dium. 



Mr. Edward Forbes, [Mem. Geol. Survey United Kingdom, Dec. 

 2, 1849, pi. X] has suggested the new generic name of Brachampyx 

 for species like the above, with six thoracic segments and short and 

 rounded heads, to separate them from species of the genus Ampyx 

 with five thoracic segments and longheads. Length of largest 

 specimen 27 2 mm., head 11 mm., thorax 82 mm., pygidium 8 mm., 

 greatest width of tail 20 mm., length of pygidium, small specimen, 

 6 mm. 

 Encrinus varicostatus, Walcott. 



Encrinurus varicostatus, Walcott, 1877, Adv. Sheets 31st. Rept. 

 N. Y. State Cab. Nat, Hist. p. 16 ; 31st. Rept. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. 

 Hist. p. 69. 



Cryptonymus varicostatus, Vodges, 1878, Mon. genera Zethus, 

 Encrinurus and Cryptonymus, p. 27. 



Encrinurus excedrinus, Safford, 1869, Geology Tennessee, p. 290. 

 £^j^\ The, only known part of this species is the 



C^\N pygidium, it is subtriangular in outline, width 

 slightly greater than its length, convex, axis 

 tapering to a blunt point and marked with 13 

 or more rings extending entirely across it as far 

 as the last pleurre, with possibly 6 or 8 more. 

 The sides are marked with 6 ribs, decreasing in length gradually, 

 the last pair coalescing with the axis, and separated from it by a 

 shallow groove. Surface granular, without nodes. Length of 

 largest specimen 7 mm., width 7* mm. Geological positions and 

 locality, Trenton limestone, Lebanon, Tenn., Cedar Glades. 



Mr. C. D. Walcott says that his specimens have about 16 smooth 

 rings; the anchylosing of the posterior rings renders it difficult to 

 determine the exact number. 



Trenton limestone, Mineral Point, Beloit, &c, Wisconsin. 



Chasmops Troosti, Safford. 



Dalmanites Troosti, Safford, 1869, Geol. Tennessee, p. 290. 



Description : General form narrowly ovate, convex, head semi- 

 circular, genal angles produced into spines extending to the fifth 

 thoracic segment. Eyes prominent, faceted glabella large, clavate. 

 The specimen! is not in condition to record the minor details of the 

 head. Thorax with 11 segments, axis prominent, convex, tapering 




168 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



posteriorly. Pleurae grooved about half 

 their length. Pygidium triangular, axis 

 prominent and tapering to a blunt obtuse 

 point, marked with about 9 axial rings ; 

 lateral lobes with seven ribs, the first two 

 pair are grooved. 



Geol. position, Trenton group. Murfrees- 

 boro, Tennessee, also Stone River 6 miles 

 north of Murfreesboro. 



This species has some affinities with 

 Dahnanites intermedins, Walcott, from the 

 Trenton group of Wisconsin, but in minor 

 details it can readily be distinguished from 

 it. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



CATALOGUE OF THE ASTEROIDEA AND OPHIUROIDEA IN THE 



COLLECTION OF THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



BY J. E. IVES. 



The following catalogue will be found to contain a number of - 

 localities that are new for various species. 



Two new forms of Star-fishes and two new forms of Ophiurans 

 from the collection have recently been described in the Proceedings 

 of the Academy. 



A large proportion of the Pacific forms are contained in a collec- 

 tion given to the Academy by Mr. W. N. Lockington. Many 

 of his specimens unfortunately have no locality indicated. The 

 majority of them, however, were collected on the west coast of North 

 and Central America, but there are also forms from Alaska, Japan, 

 New Zealand and the Pacific Islands. 



ASTEROIDEA. 

 ASTERIIDJE. 



Asterias ^qualis, Stiinpson. 5 San Francisco, Cal., 4 Seal Rock, 

 San Francisco, Cal. and 50 locality undetermined, W. N. Lock- 

 ington. 



Asterias arenicola, Stimpson. 4 Atlantic City, F. M. Beamer; 

 5 dried and 50 alcoholic, H. A. Pilsbry ; 1 U. C. Smith ; 1 Fort 

 Macon, N. C, Dr. H. C. Yarrow ; 1 (alcoholic) Gloucester, 

 Mass. and 1 Vineyard Sound, Mass., U. S. Fish Commission ; 1 

 Massachusetts Bay, Museum of Comparative Zoology ; 1 Point 

 Judith, R. I., Dr. Jos. Leidy. 



Asterias atlantica, Verrill. 13 (alcoholic) Bermuda, Heilprin 

 coll. July 1888. 



Asterias camtschatica, Brandt (?). 1 locality undetermined, W. 

 N. Lockington. 



Asterias capitata, Stimpson. 3 San Diego, Cal, Joseph Jeanes ; 

 1 Santa Barbara, Cal., and 1 locality undetermined, W. N. Lock- 

 ington. 



Asterias (Leptasterias) compta, Verrill. 6 Noank, Conn., Dr. 

 Jos. Leidy ; 2 (alcoholic) off Watch Hill, R. I. (22 fath.) U. 

 S. Fish Commission. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Asterias epichlora, Brandt (?). 1 locality undetermined, W. 

 N. Lockington. 



Asterias fabricii, Agassiz. 3 Greenland, Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology ; 1 Newport, R. I., S. Powel. 



Asterias forbesii, Verrill. 15 (alcoholic) Holmes' Holl, Mass., 

 Dr. J. H. Slack; 3 Newport, R. I., S. Powel; 5 (alcoholic) 

 Vineyard Sound, Mass., U. S. Fish Commission ; 8 specimens 

 undetermined (4 alcoholic). 



Asterias gigantea, Stimpson. 4 locality undetermined, W. N. 

 Lockington. 



Asterias glacialis, Linck. 1 " British," E. Wilson. 



Asterias lurida, Philippi (?). 3 San Diego, Cal., Joseph Jeanes 

 (H. Hemphill) ; 3 locality undetermined, W. N. Lockington. 



Asterias ochracea, Brandt. 1 (alcoholic) Oregon, Smithsonian 

 Inst. ; 1 San Francisco, Cal., Museum of Comparative Zoology ; 

 2 T. G. Watson ; 2 Santa Cruz, Cal., John Ford ; 6 locality 

 undetermined, W. N. Lockington. 



Asterias rubens, L. 2 Belfast Bay, Wm. Thompson ; 25 England, 

 Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Asterias sertulifera, Xantus ('?). 1 locality undetermined. 



Asterias vulgaris, Stimpson. 30 (alcoholic) Gay Head, Martha's 

 Vineyard, Mass., Heilprin coll. 1886 ; 3 Grand Menan, and 2 

 Massachusetts, Museum of Comparative Zoology; 1 (alcoholic) 

 Halifax, N. S., U. S. Fish Commission ; 8 Maine, Dr. J. H. 

 Slack ; 1 (alcoholic) Mt. Desert, Me., Dr. H. C. Chapman ; 2 

 Long Branch, N. J., Dr. J. L. LeConte. 



Asterias, species undetermined. 2 Guaymas, J. W. Wilson, U. 

 S. N. ; 1 New Zealand, Messrs. Warwick and Argent ; 2 Sand- 

 wich Islands, J. K. Townsend ; 2 dissimilar forms, localities 

 undetermined, W. N. Lockington. 



Heliaster helianthus, Lam. 1 Chili, W. W. Drinker. 



Heliaster microbrachia, Xantus. 1 Chili, W. W. Drinker; 1 

 Magdalena Bay, Low. OaL, W. N. Lockington. (Fischer coll.)/ 



Heliaster multiradiata, Gray (= H. Kubinijii, Xantus). l! 

 Lower California and 1 (young) locality undetermined, W. N.. 

 Lockington ; 1 (alcoholic) Machuoha, Nicaragua, Dr. Brans- 

 ford ; 2 dried and 3 alcoholic, Pacific Coast of "Mexico, Dr. W. 

 H. Jones ; 2 locality undetermined. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



BRISINGIDJE. 



Coronaster bispinosus, Ives. A single specimen. Type, Proc 

 Acad. 1888, p. 422. Locality undetermined. 



ECHINASTERIDJE. 



Echinaster echinophorus, Lam. 6 New Providence, Bahamas, 

 Dr. H. C. Wood. 



Echinaster fallax, M. and T. (?). 1 Pacific Islands, W. N. 

 Lockington. 



Echinaster sentus, Say. 2 Key West, Florida, Lieut. Gandtt 

 (Proc. Acad. 1825. p. 143). 



Echinaster spinulosus. Verrill. 4 (alcoholic) Anclote Bay r 

 Florida, and 2 (alcoholic) (12 ft.) Sarasota Bay, Florida,. 

 Heilprin coll. 1886. 



Ehinaster tenuispina, Verrill. 2 (alcoholic) Bay of Pichilincpie, 

 W. Coast of America, Dr. W. H. Jones ; 1 Monterey, Cal., and 

 12 locality undetermined, W. N. Lockington. 



Cribrella leviuscula, Stimpson. 6 (alcoholic) Marmot Island, 

 Northwest Coast of America, Dr. W. H. Jones; 1 locality 

 undetermined, W. N. Lockington. 



Cribrella sanguinolenta, Mulier. 2 Belfast Bay, Wm. Thomp- 

 son ; 2 " British," E. Wilson ; 2 Manchester, Mass., S. Tufts, Jr. ; 

 3 (alcoholic) Massachusetts Bay, U.S. Fish Commission; 12 

 Maine and 7 (alcoholic) Nahant, Mass., Dr. J. H. Slack ; 3 

 Noank, Conn., Dr. Jos. Leidy ; locality undetermined. 



Mithrodia clavigera, Lam. 1 (alcoholic) Oahu, Sandwich 

 Islands, Dr. W. H. Jones. 



Solaster decemradiata, Brandt. 1 California, W. N. Locking- 

 ton. 



Solaster endeca, Gniel. 1 dried and 5 alcoholic, Mt. Desert, Me., 

 Dr. H. C. Chapman. 



Solaster papposa, L. 1 (alcoholic) Mediterranean, Dr. Howel ; 

 3 (alcoholic) Mt. Desert, Me., Dr. H. C. Chapman. 



A< anthaster ellisii, Gray. 1 Gulf of California, W. N. Lock- 

 ington (Fisher coll.). 



LINCKIIDJE. 



Linckia guildingii, Gray. 1 Bermuda, Mr. Janney ; 1 San Diego, 

 Cal., Jos. Jeanes (H. Hemphill) ; 5 locality undetermined, W. 

 N. Lockington ; 1 locality undetermined. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



The specimens received from Mr. Lockington resemble the single 

 specimen presented by Mr. Joseph Jeanes from San Diego, Cal. They 

 are small, the largest not exceeding 8 mm. in diameter, but other- 

 wise thoroughly agree with descriptions of Linkia Guildingii. This 

 species has not been recorded before from the West Coast of 

 North America. 



Linckia l.evk;ata, Lam. (= L. Pacifica, Gray). 3 Navigator's 

 Isles, Dr. Eckstein ; 1 Navigator's Isles and 3 Arica, Peru, Dr. 

 W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 Linckia nodosa, Perrier. 2 locality undetermined. 

 Linckia unifascialis, Gray. 1 Central America, Dr. LeConte; 2 

 Honduras, Capt. J. M. Dow ; 1 Lower California, Wm. M. Gabb ; 

 2 Magdalena Bay, Low. Cal, W. N. Lockington ; 2 Pacific 

 Coast of Mexico, Dr. W. H. Braden ; 2 (alcoholic) Panama, 

 McNeil Expedition ; 7 (alcoholic) Pichilinque Bay, West Coast 

 of America, Dr. W. H. Jones ; 3 localities undetermined, W. 

 N. Lockington. 

 Linckia, species undetermined. 1 Christmas Island, W. N. Lock- 

 ington. 

 This specimen does not appear to be Linckia laevigata Lam. (L 

 Pacifica, Gray), the only species of Linckia recorded from Christmas 

 Island by Prof. F. Jeffrey Bell. 



Linckia, species undetermined. 1 Lower California, W. M. Gabb. 

 Ophidiaster gracilis, Gray. 1 locality undetermined, W. N. 



Lockington. 

 Ophidiaster pusillus, M. and T. 5 (alcoholic) Oahu, Sandwich 



Islands, Dr. W. H. Jones. 

 Ophidiaster pyramidatus, Gray. 1 Honduras, Capt. J. M. 

 Dow ; 1 La Paz, Low. Cal., and 1 Magdalena Bay, Low. Cal., 

 W. N. Lockington ; 6 (alcoholic) Panama Bay, McNeil Expedi- 

 tion ; 1 (alcoholic) Pichilinque Bay, West Coast of America, 

 Dr. W. H. Jones. 

 Ophidiaster, species undetermined. 1 West Coast of Honduras, 

 Capt. J. M. Dow; 3 locality undetermined. 



GONIASTERIDJE. 



Pentagonaster dilatatus, Perrier. 1 New Zealand, Messrs. 



Warwick and Argent. 

 Pentagonaster (Stellaster) equestris, Retzius. 1 New 



Zealand, Messrs. Warwick and Argent. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



Pentagonaster granularis, O. F. Miiller. (Alcoholic) Marmot 

 Island, Alaska, Dr. W. H. Jones; 1 Monterey, Cal., W. N. 

 Lockington (W. G. W. Harford). 



Pentagonaster pulchellus, Gray. 1 New Zealand, Messrs. 

 Warwick and Argent. 



Pentagonaster semilunatus, Linck. 1 New Zealand, Messrs. 

 Warwick and Argent, 



Pentagonaster, species undetermined. 1 locality undetermined, 

 W. N. Lockington. 



Axthenea acuta, Perrier (?). 2 (alcoholic) locality undetermined. 



Axthenea tuberculosa, Gray (?). 1 New Zealand, Messrs. 

 Warwick and Argent. 



Oreaster (Nidorellia) armata, Gray. 1 Guaymas, J. W. 

 Wilson ; 1 La Paz, Low. Cal., W. N. Lockington (W. J. Fisher 

 coll.) ; 1 Panama Bay, Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger ; 1 (alco- 

 holic) Panama, McNeil Expedition ; 1 locality undetermined, 

 W. N. Lockington. 



Oreaster dorsatus, L. 1 New Zealand, Messrs. Warwick and 

 Argent ; 1 Senegal, Dr. Isaac Lea. 



Oreaster (Amphiaster) insignis, Verrill. 1 locality undeter- 

 mined, W. N. Lockington. 



Oreaster lutkeni, Bell. 1 locality undetermined. 



Oreaster occidentals, Verrill. 1 Honduras, Capt. J. M. Dow ; 

 1 Lower California, W. N. Lockington (Fisher coll.) ; 1 dried 

 and 1 alcoholic, Pacific Coast of Mexico, Dr. W. H. Jones. 



Oreaster reticulatus, L. 1 Maracaibo, C. D. Meigs ; 1 Nassau, 

 New Providence, Chas. P. Perot ; 1 St. Bartholomew, West 

 Indies, Dr. Gaes; 2 West Indies, E. Wilson; 1 locality un- 

 determined, J. C. Fisher ; 4 specimens, locality undetermined. 



Culcita discoidea, Schmidt. 1 Zanzibar, Museum of Compara- 

 tive Zoology. 



ASTERINIDJE. 



Asterina folium, Liitken. 2 alcoholic, locality undetermined. 



Asterina gibbosa, Penn. 2 Belfast Bay, W. Thompson ; 1 Med- 

 iterranean, Dr. S. B. Howel ; 1 locality undetermined, W. N. 

 Lockington. 



Asterina granulosa, Perrier. 1 (alcoholic) Oahu, Sandwich 

 Islands, Dr. W. H. Jones. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Asterina miniata, Brandt. 2 Monterey, Cal., W. M. Gabb ; 2 San 

 Diego, Cal., Jos. Jeanes ; 2 locality undetermined, W. N. Lock- 

 in gton. 



Asterina obtusa, Gray. 1 locality undetermined, W. N. Lock- 

 ington. 



Asterina regularis, Verrill. 3 New Zealand, Messrs. Warwick 

 and Argent. 



Asterina, species undetermined. 1 locality undetermined, W. N. 

 Lockington. 



Palmipes membranaceus, Linck. 1 " Europe." 



Asteropsis imbricata, Grube. 1 Gulf of Georgia, Northwest 

 Coast of America, Museum of Comparative Zoology; 1 Mon- 

 terey, Cal., W. N. Lockington. 



ASTROPECTINID^. 



Astropecten articulatus, Say. 1 (alcoholic) 9-12 ft. off Man- 

 atee, Tampa Bay, Fla., Heilprin coll. 1886 ; 1 South Carolina, 

 F. S. Holmes ; 1 dried and 4 alcoholic, localities undetermined. 



Astropecten aurantiaca, Lam. 2 Mediterranean, Dr. T. B. 

 Wilson. 



Astropecten oerstedii, Lutken. 2 San Diego, Cal., Jos. Jeanes 

 (H. Hemphill) ; 4 locality undetermined, W. N. Lockington. 



Astropecten subinermis, M. and T. 1 (alcoholic) Mediterranean, 

 Dr. Howel ; 2 locality undetermined. 



Astropecten, species undetermined. 6 Gulf of Mexico, C. S. 

 Westcott ; 1 (alcoholic) Oahu, Sandwich Islands, Dr. W. H. 

 Jones; 6 Sandwich Islands; 1 West Coast of Africa, Dr. 

 Henderson, U. S. N. ; 8 Yokohama, Japan, W. N. Lockington. 



Luidia clathrata, Say. 4 Charleston, S. C. ; 1 Cuba, W. M. 

 Gabb ; 3 (alcoholic) Stumps' Pass, West Coast of Florida, 

 Heilprin coll. 1886 ; 2 locality undetermined. 



Luidia tessellata, Lutken (?). 3 Lower California, W. N. Lock- 

 ington ; 2 Gulf of California, W. N. Lockington. These two last 

 specimens are very large, measuring from 200 to 225 mm. from 

 the center of the disk to the tips of the rays. 



Ctenodiscus crispatus, Retzius. 11 (alcoholic) (40-50 fath.) and 

 5 dried Massachusetts Bay, U. S. Fish Commission ; 1 Salem, 

 Mass., W. N. Lockington (J. S. Kingsley) ; 1 locality un- 

 determined, S. B. Howel. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



Archaster typicus, M. and T. 1 California, 4 Lower California 

 and 1 Mulege Bay, Low. Cal. (Fisher coll.), W. N. Locking- 

 ton ; 1 Sandwich Islands, W. H. Pease. 

 The specimen from the Sandwich Islands differs from the others 

 by its narrower arms and greater number of arm plates, having 

 about 40 on each side of an arm, whereas the others have only about 

 35. It differs also in color, being of a very light cream color instead 

 of light or dark umber. This however may be due to the fading of - 

 the original tint. This species has not before been recorded either 

 from the Pacific Coast of North America or from the Sandwich 

 Islands. 



PTERASTERID.ffi. 



Pteraster tessellatus, Ives. A single type specimen in alcohol. 

 Proc. Acad, 1888, p. 421. Kodiak, Alaska. Dr. W. H. 

 Jones. 



OPHIUROIDEA. 



OPHIURIDJE. 



Ophiura appressa, Say. 1 Callao, Peru, Dr. W. S. W. Ruschen- 

 berger ; 3 Florida ; 14 (alcoholic) locality undetermined. 



Ophiura brevispina, Say. 1 Rhode Island, A. D. Bache. 



Ophiura cinerea, M. and T. 5 Aspinwall, W. M. Gabb ; 16 

 (alcoholic,) locality undetermined. 



Ophiura panamensis, Liitk. 1 California, W. M. Gabb ; 2 

 (alcoholic) Panama (?), KcXeil Expedition ; 1 San Bartolome 

 Bay, Low. Cal., W. N. Lockington ; 3 (alcoholic) San Diego, 

 Cal., Jos. Jeanes; 1 alcoholic, West Coast of Mexico, Dr. W. 

 H. Jones. 



Ophiura teres, Lyman. 1 Cape Tortola, Low. Cal., and 1 locality 

 undetermined, W. N. Lockington ; 1 alcoholic, Nicaragua, Dr. 

 Bransford ; 3 dried and 7 alcoholic, West Coast of Mexico, Dr. 

 W. H. Jones. 



Ophiolepis elegans, Liitken. 1 (alcoholic) Sarasota Bay, Fla. 

 (12 feet), Heilprin coll. 1886. 



Ophioplocus esmarki, Lyman. 3 (alcoholic) San Diego, Cal., Jos. 

 Jeanes ; 1 (alcoholic) West Coast of America, George David- 

 son ; 6 locality unknown, W. N. Lockington. 

 The number of arm spines to each side arm-plate in this species 



appears to be somewhat variable. In the specimen from the West 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Coast presented by Mr. Geo. Davidson there are only two such spines, 

 and in one of the specimens received from Mr. Lockington, some of 

 the plates have two, and some three arm spines. 

 Ophioplocus imbkicatus, M. and T. 1 Bay of Islands, New- 

 Zealand, W. N. Lockington. 

 Ophioncus granulosus, Ives. Type specimen (Proc. Acad. 1889, 



p. 1-43), locality undetermined, W. N. Lockington. 

 Ophioglypha albida, Forbes. 3 Belfast Bay, W. Thompson. 

 Ophioglypha ciliata Retzius. 3 Belfast Bay, W. Thompson ; 



27 "British," E. Wilson. 

 Ophioglypha lockingtoni, Ives. 2 type specimens (Proc. Acad. 



1889, p. 143), locality undetermined, "W. N. Lockington. 

 Ophioglypha lutkeni, Lyman. 4 dried and 2 alcoholic, locality 



undetermined, \V. X. Lockington. 

 Ophioglypha nodosa, Liitken. 1 locality undetermined, W. N. 



Lockington. 

 Ophioglypha robusta, Lyman. 3 Bay of Fundy, U. S. Fish 



Commission. 

 Ophioglypha sarsi, Lyman. 3 dried and 7 alcoholic (20-125 fath.) 



U. S. Fish Commission. 

 Ophiopholis aculeata, Retzius. I Belfast Bay, \V. Thompson ; 



1 "British" ; 9 dried and 6 alcoholic, Maine, and 2 alcoholic, 



Nahant, Dr. J. H. Slack ; 12 (alcoholic) Massachusetts Bay 



and Gulf of Maine (10-100 fath.) U. S. Fish Commission ; 15 



(alcoholic) Mt. Desert, Me., Dr. H. C. Chapman ; 6 locality 



undetermined. 

 Ophiopholis caryi, Lyman. 1 (alcoholic), W. N. Lockington. 

 Ophiopholis japonic a, Lyman. 1 (alcoholic) Dr. S. B. Howe). 

 This specimen agrees closely with Mr. Lyman's description of 0. 

 Japonica. The arm spines, however, are slightly longer and also 

 more slender, and there are on the upper surface of the disk a few 

 scattered spines of about the size of the smallest arm spines. 

 Ophiopholis kennerlyi, Lyman. 4 (alcoholic), AVest Coast of 



Mexico, and 11 (alcoholic) Alaska and California, Dr. W. H. 



Jones. 

 Ophiactis mulleri, Liitken. 2 (alcoholic) Bermuda, Heilprin 



coll. July 1888. 

 These specimens which were identified as Ophiactis Krebsii in 

 Professor Heilprin's " Contributions to the Natural History of the 




18<S£*.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



Bermuda Islands" (Proc. Acad. 1888, p. 316), on further examina- 

 tion I am inclined to regard as 0. Miilleri. 



Qphiactis savignyi (= 0. virescens, Liitk.) 3 (alcoholic), one of 

 them parasitic in sponge, La Paz, Low. Cal., W. N. Locking- 

 ton; 18 (alcoholic) Oahn, Sandwich Islands, Dr. W. H. Jones. 



Amphiura geminata, Lyman. 2 alcoholic, La Paz, Low. Cal., W. 

 N. Lockington (Fisher). 



Amphiura squamata, Chiaje. 4 Belfast Bay, W. Thompson ; 2 

 England, E. Wilson. 



Ophiocnida brachiata, Montagu. 1 England, Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Hemipholis elongata, Say. 1 Florida. 



Ophionereis reticulata, Liitk. 20 (alcoholic) Bermuda, Heil- 

 prin coll. July 1888 ; 1 Florida, T. R. Peale. 



Ophiostigma isacanthum, Say. 2 (alcoholic) Harrington Sound, 

 Bermuda, Heilprin coll. July 1888. 



Ophiocoma .ethiops, Liitk. 2 (alcoholic) Nicaragua, Dr. Brans- 

 ford ; Panama, 8 (alcoholic) McNeil Expedition and 1 dried, 

 Capt. J. M. Dow; 1 AVest Coast of Honduras, Capt. J. M. 

 Dow ; 7 (alcoholic) West Coast of Mexico, Dr. W. H. Jones. 



Ophiocoma alexandri, Lyman. 8 (alcoholic) Pichilinque Ba3 r , 

 Dr. W. H. Jones. 



Ophiocoma crassispina, Say. 2 Aspinwall Bay, W. M. Gabb ; 1 

 (alcoholic) New Providence, Bahamas, Dr. H. C. Wood ; 1 

 (alcoholic) North Rock, Bermuda, Heilprin coll. July 1888 ; 1 

 (alcoholic) locality undetermined. 



Ophiocoma echinata, Lam. (Lyman). 3 East Coast of Florida ; 

 1 Gulf of Mexico, C. S. AVestcott ; 4 (alcoholic) Panama, Mc- 

 Neil Expedition ; 21 (alcoholic) locality undetermined. 



Ophiocoma erinaceus, M. and T. 4 (alcoholic) locality undeter- 

 mined. 



Ophiocoma nigra, M. and T. 1 Belfast Bay, W. Thompson ; 1 

 " British," E. Wilson. 



Ophiocoma pica, M. and T. 1 (alcoholic) locality undetermined. 



Ophiocoma pumila, Liitken. 1 (alcoholic) Bermuda, Heilprin 

 coll. July 1888 ; 1 (alcoholic) locality undetermined, W. M. 

 Gabb. 



Ophiocoma riisei, Liitk. 1 Aspinwall Reef, W. M. Gabb; 1 

 (alcoholic) New Providence, Bahamas, Dr. H. C. AVood ; 7 

 (alcoholic) locality undetermined. 



13 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Ophiocoma scolopexdrina, Lam. 4 Enderbury Island, Phoenix 

 Group, Dr. H. C. Eckstein. 



Ophiopteris antipodum, E. A. Smith. 1 New Zealand, Messrs. 

 Warwick and Argent ; 2 locality undetermined, W. N. Lock- 

 in gton. 



Ophiothrix angulata, Say. 8 Florida. 



Ophiothrix lixeata, Lyman. 7 Key West, Fla., S. Ashmead. 



Ophiothrix oerstedii, Liitk. 2 Key West, Fla., S. Ashmead ; 6 

 (alcoholic) New Providence, Bahamas, Dr. H. C. Wood ; 50 

 (alcoholic) locality undetermined. 



Ophiothrix pentaphyllum, Pennant. 3 Belfast Bay, W. Thomp- 

 son ; 15 " British," Dr. Wilson. 



Ophiothkix RUDis, Lyman. 2 (alcoholic) West Coast of America, 

 Geo Davidson ; 3 locality undetermined, W. N. Lockington. 

 The specimens of this species received from Mr. Lockington agree 



•with Mr. Lyman's description, but the dorsal surface of the arms and 



disk is of a light bluish-gray and the upper arm plates are marked 



each by a central transverse darker band, with a lighter band on 



either side of it. The specimens received from Mr. Geo. Davidson 



answer to Mr. Lyman's description as to color, but have a light 



band on the outer edge of each upper arm plate. This light band is 



bordered on the inside by a faint line of darker. 



Ophiothrix spiculata, Le Conte. 2 (alcoholic) Magdalena Bay, 

 Low. Gal., W. N. Lockington ; 4 (alcoholic) San Diego, Gal., 

 Jos. Jeanes; 6 dried, West Coast of Low. Cal., and Gulf of 

 California and 2 alcoholic locality undetermined, W. N. Lock- 

 ington. 

 I have found it so difficult to determine whether the above forms 



belong to 0. spiculata, Le Conte or 0. dumosa, Lyman that I think 



it probable that these two species represent varieties of one form. 



The color appears to be very variable. 



Ophiothrix suensoxii, Liitk. 1 (alcoholic) Nassau, New Prov- 

 idence, Dr. H. C. Wood. 



Ophiomyxa flaccida, Liitk. 1 (alcoholic) New Providence, 

 Bahamas, Dr. II. G. Wood ; 1 (alcoholic) Bailey's Bay, Ber- 

 muda, Heilprin July 1888; 7 (alcoholic) locality undetermined. 



ASTROPHYTID^. 



Astrophytox costatum, Seba. 1 South Carolina, F. S. Holmes ; 

 1 Cuba, J. G. Howard ; young specimen on Pterogorgia, West 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Indies, I. Lea ; 1 (alcoholic) Santa Cruz, West Indies, T. David- 

 son, Jr. ; 1 (alcoholic) West Indies, R. Swift. 



Astkoi'hyton pANAMENsis, Verrill. 5 (alcoholic) locality un- 

 determined, McNeil Expedition. 



GORGONOCEPHALTJS AGASSiziI, Stimpson. 1 dried and 2 alcoholic 

 off Cape Cod (25-35 fath.), U. S. Fish Commission ; 3 Maine, 

 Dr. J. H. Slack ; 4 (alcoholic) Mt. Desert, Me., Dr. H. C. 

 Chapman; 1 (alcoholic) locality undetermined, Smithsonian 

 Institution. 



G< >r< ;< >x< >cephalus arborescens, Agassiz. 1 Palermo, Italy, John 

 Ford. 



( Jougonocephalus caryi, Lyman. 1 Monterey, Cal., and 1 

 locality undetermined, W. N. Lockington. 



Gorgoxi « ki'iialus STiMPSONi, Verrill. 1 (alcoholic) Arctic Ocean. 

 Smithsonian Institute, North Pacific Expedition ; 1 (alcoholic) 

 Marmot Island, Alaska, Dr. W. H. Jones ; 1 locality undeter- 

 mined, W. X. Lockington. 



Astroschema l.eve, Lyman (*?). 1 locality undetermined. 



Astroschema oligactes, Pallas. 1 locality undetermined. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



July 2. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Nine persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



"Nomenclature and Check-List of North American Land Mol- 

 lusks." By H. A. Pilsbry. 



"The Origin and Meaning of Sex." By John A. Ryder. 



"A review of the American Species of Sturgeons (Accipen- 

 seridae)." By Philip H. Kirsch and Morton W. Fordice. 



July 9. 

 Rev. H. C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty persons present. 



Note on the true Systematic Position of the Bay Spider. — Dr. Henry 

 C. McCook remarked that he had been recently led to reinvestigate 

 the character of the web of the Ray spider and its proper systematic 

 place. 



When the snare of this aranead was first discovered by him in 

 1881, and described in the Proceedings of this Academy 1 he con- 

 sidered the spider new to science, and gave it the name of Epeira 

 radiosa in a paper containing a careful and detailed description of 

 its spinningwork and habits. He then indicated that it would 

 probably be assigned to a new genus, and subsequently in a verbal 

 communication to this Academy, proposed for it the name of Aetis 

 radiosa. Emerton, in his monograph of the New England Epeirada?, 

 created for it the genus Microepeira? Subsequent investigation had 

 led Dr. McCook to believe that the spider belongs to Cambridge's 

 genus Theridiosoma? and probably is identical with the European 

 species Theridiosoma gemmosum of Dr. L. Koch. 4 This genus has 

 a marked resemblance to Epeira, as Cambridge himself allows, and 

 certainly on the ground of structure appears to be at least equally 

 related to the Epeiroids. 



1 Proc. Acad. Natural Sciences. Phila., 1881, pp. 163-75. 



2 New England Spider of the Family Epeiradse. Transactions Connecticut 

 Academy, Volume VI., 1884, p. 320. 



3 Rev. O. Pickard-Cambridge, Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 1879, 

 p. 193. 



4 Theridium gemmosum : Verzeichniss der bei Nurnberg beob. Arten. p. 69. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Count Keyserling, however, in his extended and admirable mono- 

 graph 1 retains the species among the Retitelarise where it had 

 previously been placed. But the spinningwork of the spider, which 

 appears to have been unknown to the above named arachnologists, 

 shows conclusively that it must be placed with the Orbitelariae. To 

 that position, therefore, Dr. McCook assigned it, and it became 

 necessary to transfer the genus Theridiosoma from the Retitelaria? 

 to the Orbitelariae, and to make for it a new family, for which he 

 proposed the name Actince. 



In the paper above alluded to, in which the habits and spinning- 

 work of this spider were originally described, the statement was 

 made that the spiral lines of its web were covered with viscid beads. 

 Upon this point turned very largely the decision as to the true 

 systematic place of the spider, for it has never yet been observed 

 that any other spiders than those belonging to the Orbitelariae make 

 geometric webs that are habitually covered with viscid beads as the 

 ordinary armature for capturing prey. In correspondence with 

 arachnologists upon the subject* the speaker was not able to say 

 that he had made such tests of this point as to enable him to speak 

 with absolute assurance. He had made a somewhat careful investi- 

 gation with a good hand lens, wnich seemed to indicate with reason- 

 able certainty the presence of viscid spirals. But as the webs are 

 habitually located within cavities and shaded positions, where they 

 are extremely difficult to study, there remained the possibility that 

 he might have been mistaken. This appeared to be the more likely 

 because when such webs as those of the Triangle spider, Hyptioies 

 cavatus, are examined, the spiral lines often appear to be beaded, 

 although it is well known that they have no viscid armature. The 

 lack of beads is supplied by a thin floceulent thread, which is teased 

 or hackled by a special instrument known as the calamistrum. Yet, 

 when one looks at the spiral thread of Hyptiotes, or of U/oborns, 

 which has the same peculiarity, he finds that it presents to a care- 

 less glance the appearance of being beaded. More closely examined, 

 however, these seeming beads prove to be nothing but globular 

 grains of pollen or particles of dust which have been drifted upon 

 and entangled with the flocculent lines. The speaker had himself 

 more than once been deceived by the strong resemblance of these 

 drifted minutiae, and been led to look again with the wonder whether 

 after all there might not be beads upon these webs which were so 

 well known to be unbeaded ? When, therefore, the question was 

 raised and became of such special importance, he resolved to make 

 a careful and thorough re-examination and test of this point. 



No opportunity occurred to do this successfully until July 8th 

 (18891, near Wallingford, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. The Ray 

 spider was found in sufficient abundance for desired study, located 

 along the banks of a little run or stream of spring water. Its posi- 



1 Die Spinnen Amerikas. Theridiidae, I Hiilfte, von Graf. E. Keyserling, 

 Zweiter Band, p. 218. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



tion was there precisely like that in which it has always been dis- 

 covered, in cool, shaded retreats overhanging or close to running 

 water. He had provided himself with all the apparatus necessary 

 to make a satisfactory microscopic examination of the webs. Many 

 of his previous investigations were repeated and confirmed. The 

 viscid globules were found to be visible along the spiral lines with a 

 common hand lens. Not satisfied with this, portions of the web 

 were removed and microscopically examined, and thus displayed 

 beyond doubt the presence of the viscid beads. 



The behavior of the web was precisely like similar portions of the 

 orb of Epeira. The beads Avould melt upon the glass, leaving the 

 thread visible as a straight line. Within the cups or frames, upon 

 which the lines were taken for examination, the beads being undis- 

 turbed were readily examined and their character easily determined. 

 Drawings were made of these beads, and the number counted on 

 single strings, amounting in one case to sixty-four. A number of 

 insects entangled upon several snares were also observed and draw- 

 ings made. They showed in every instance the same method of 

 entanglement as that so frequently observed upon the web of Epeira. 

 The feet, wings and antennae of a fly were caught in the viscid lines 

 from which, at certain parts, the gummy material had been absorbed 

 into the pubescence of the insect's limbs, and at other parts remained 

 in the globular form of beads. 



Dr. McCook not only satisfied himself beyond question of this 

 fact, but submitted the various tests, independently, to his private 

 secretary, Mr. Edwin S. Gault, who had been requested to carefully 

 note and accurately report precisely what he saw. His report con- 

 firmed in every particular as to the beaded nature of the spirals, 

 that which is here submitted. Thus the one point which remained 

 at least open to question concerning the spinning habit of this 

 interesting spider, has been placed beyond doubt. Thus also, the 

 position of Theridiosoma radiomm 1 is placed beyond doubt among 

 the Orbweavers. The special interest of this decision rests upon 

 the fact that the spinningwork of the Ray spider forms a remark- 

 able connecting link between that of the Triangle spider Hyptiotes, 

 and the ordinary geometric Orbweaver. The Triangle spider spins 

 a snare composed of four converging lines and uniting finally in a 

 common supporting thread known as the trap-line. They are joined 

 by cross lines after the manner of the spiral concentrics of an orbic- 

 ular web, but without any viscid armature as has been stated. 



This web is used for the capture of insects by a method of trap- 

 ping or springing the snare, which has been fully described by 

 various observers, particularly by Professor Burt Wilder. The 



awaiti 



1 Dr. McCook preferred for the present thus to characterize the spider, 

 citing until its actual identity with Dr. Koch's species shall be determined. 

 He had no species of the European Theridiosoma gemmosum with which to 

 compare his own specimens and had sent specimens to Europe for such comparison. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



spider tak/s its position upon the handle or trapline of its little ray- 

 formed web, holding between its fore feet and the third pair of feet 

 a coil of slack line. When an insect strikes its snare it quickly 

 unlooses its fore feet, and the web shoots forward the distance of the 

 coil of slack line. It is then rapidly gathered up again and succes- 

 sively snapped in this wise until the insect is thoroughly entangled. 



Now, this same method of springing its net and trapping its prey 

 is habitual with Therldiosoma radio-sum. Its web may be said to be 

 composed of a series of rays somewhat resembling the orb sector of 

 the Triangle spicier. The handles or traplines of these rays are, 

 however, all centered upon a common thread or trapline, which the 

 little weaver holds within her feet. She has the power of springing 

 or snapping off all these combined concentrics at once ; or, if she so 

 choose, to spring one or more of them at a time. She thus in this 

 remarkable and essential particular resembles the Triangle spider 

 in her habit. Had the spiral lines of her web proved to be of the 

 same character as those of the Triangle spicier, this peculiarity of 

 combining the rays upon a central point might not have seemed 

 so remarkable ; but when it is found that the spiral lines are covered 

 with beads entirely after the manner of true Orbweaving spiders, 

 the combination becomes very striking and remarkable indeed. 



Many Orbweavers do use a trapline in connection with their 

 webs. This is almost invariably the custom with those which make 

 an orb having in the upper part an open segment, as is the case 

 with Epeira triaranea, Epeira thaddeus and generally with the 

 species of the genus Z'dla. But this trapline, while it is attached to 

 the center of the orb, and assists to hold the various converging 

 lines taut, has simply these two uses : first, it is used as a telegraphic 

 line along which pass the vibrations of the entangled insect, and 

 which are thus communicated to the owner of the snare who oc- 

 cupies a position in a little den just above and beyond her domain. 

 Second, the trapline serves as a gangway along which ihe spider 

 runs first to the center of her orb and then to the point where her 

 prey happens to be entangled. None of these Orbweavers, however, 

 make any such use of their traplines as that which has been described 

 as habitual to the Triangle and Ray spiders. Perhaps one may 

 not Jie able to suggest a method by which these variations have been 

 originated, but at all events, it must be conceded that the fact, which 

 is in this communication placed beyond question, as to the viscid 

 character of the spiral lines of the Ray spider's snare, certainly 

 reveals a connecting link between two forms of spinningwork, 

 namely that of the Triangle spider and that of the typical geometric 

 Orbweaver, which had heretofore been supposed to stand at the 

 opposite extremes of the spinningwork of a great family, without 

 any known connection between the two. 




184 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[iNN'.t. 



Chloanthite, Ndcolite, De Sau/esite, Annabergite, Tephrowillemite, 

 Fluorite and Aquatite from Franklin, N. J. — Professor George 

 A. Koenig stated that on a recent visit to Franklin he obtained from 

 Major de Saules, the manager of the Trotter mine, material of a re- 

 cent find of nickel ore, in which he identified the above species, of 

 which two are new and the others have not been observed hereto- 

 fore at this locality. At a depth of 340 feet the shaft passed 

 through a stratum of yellow garnet. Under this a considerable 

 nest of sphalerite and fluorite was met with and with these the bunch 

 of nickel ore was associated, probably 3<J pounds. The first and only 

 observation that nickel and cobalt are found at Franklin, dates 

 from 1876, when the speaker described the product of alteration of 

 Jeffersonite under the name of Anomalite (Amer. Inst, of Mining 

 Engineers, 1876). From this substance the reaction of manganese 

 in borax and salt of phosphorus could not be obtained, although it 

 contains over '60% of this metal. The cause of this lies in the pres- 

 ence of nickel and cobalt (about 3%) which together give a green 

 color to the glass and this being complementary to the red of the 

 manganese, extinction results. The present find of nickel minerals 

 is, then, not unexpected, but very interesting. 



1. Chloanthite. — Forms the main bulk. It is chiefly massive, in 

 thin layers, having a very thin interposition of calcite. The color 

 of the massive portion is light steel-gray. On one specimen, the 

 mineral is bordered by eleavable calcite. All along the border 

 minute white crystals of metallic lustre are imbedded in the calcite. 



Their habitus is generally 

 prismatic. Fortunately the 

 speaker observed one crystal, 

 ]'. inch length of edge, which 

 could be chiseled out from the 

 matrix and was large enough 

 to afford goniometric measure- 

 ments. The figure shows this 

 crystal in linear enlargement 

 of 1: 18. The crystal is broken 

 off at the left and at the back. 

 On the right front a sjnall 

 crystal appears. 



The right front face O and all others of the same position show 

 small protuberances and do not reflect the light completely. How- 

 ever, the reflections obtained were in the main satisfactory. 

 Edge (e) = 70° 24' 



Edge (/) = : 70° 35' (theoretically 70° 33') 

 The face (6) is very narrow, striated, and it reflects a drawn 

 image. 



a :b^ 55° (54° 44') b : c = 54° 30' (54° 44') 

 a:c 109° 30' (109° 28') 

 a : d = 180° 



oo o oo 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



From these measurements it follows that the crystal belongs to the 

 isometric system ; the combination being O, oo O ». The faces 

 (g and li) belong to a pentagonal dodecahedron, whose symbol is 

 -." ' because g : b = 24° 30' (uncertain owing to the strongly blur- 

 red condition of the weak reflection ; 20 oo requires 26° 30'). This 

 form should occur, however, in symmetrical pah's of faces. It is ob- 

 served here only in single faces. The upper apex is quite perfect 

 and so is the front apex, yet there is no indication in either case of a 

 companion face. A tetartohedral development must therefore be 

 assumed in this instance. 



Specific gravity = 6.8334 at 24° C. B. B. In closed tube it yields 

 a sublimate of* metallic arsenic. On charcoal it does not fuse until 

 a large quantity of arsenic has been volatilized. Heated with a 

 borax head in the 0. H. on charcoal, a blue glass is obtained for 

 some time, then a brown glass. (Cobalt and Nickel.) 

 The analvsis gave : 



0-9421 ) 



0481 J 0-9902 



0-3185) 



0-1087 - 



0-0413 ) 0-4685 



100-40 

 The atomic ratio therefore : 



(As, S) : (Ni, Co, Fe) = 211:1 

 It is further notable that 



Fe : Co : Ni = 1 : 3 : 9 very nearly. 



2. Xicolite. — This species has been observed only in a few small 

 grains in connection with the following species. It is recognized 

 by the peculiar color. 



3. De Saulesite, a zinciferous variety of Garnierite. — Tins species 

 occurs as a crust and as the filling of the cavities in a deeply purple 

 fluorite. It is associated with Chloanthite in such a manner, that 

 the most probable inference to be drawn is, that the arsenide is not 

 the original, but was crystallized either at the same time or later 

 than the silicate. Chloanthite is disseminated in very minute pris- 

 matic crystals all through the green silicate. This latter is built 

 up loosely in grate-like forms, assuming the texture of certain 

 sponges. The linear, intersecting, cylindroid rods are covered with 

 roughly polyhedral excrescences which seem to be crystalloid bodies. 

 Besides this form, which has been reported for the Algerian Gar- 

 nierite, the green mineral appears less frequently in massive, com- 

 pact, bluish-green bands, bordered by Chloanthite. It resembles in 

 this form certain serpentines, from which, however, its softness readily 

 distinguishes it, The color varies from yellowish-green to bright 




186 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



apple and emerald-green. The material fur the analysis was picked 

 with the utmost care, especially to exclude the minutest crystals of 

 chloanthite. The quantity analyzed was 0*2805 gram. In closed 

 tube it yields water and turns brown. It is infusible even in the 

 Bunsen blowpipe, but the green color returns at this high tempera- 

 ture, and the specimen looks as if it had not changed. It gives 

 with the fluxes only nickel reaction. It is easily decomposed by 

 hydrochloric acid, a little less after ignition, and separates flocculeut 

 silica. Owing to the scantiness of material, the substance was first 

 ignited then digested with concentr. hydrochloric acid over night. 

 The silica was then fused with sodic carbonate, when it was observed 

 that it had lost 10%, showing that 90% of the ignited silicate had 

 been decomposed by the acid. The analvsis gave: — 

 Si O 2 = 31-62 



9-44 at 100° C. 



97-71 ( 7-14 at 600° C. 

 The arsenic oxide is undoubtedly contained as such in the min- 

 eral. Let it be assumed then that it is admixed in the form of 

 there will be : 



Coeffic : 



Annabergite, 



SiO 2 



MO 



TnO 



FeO 



CaO 



MgO 



H 2 



As 2 5 



NiO 



H 2 O 



31-02 

 33-62 

 4-00 

 2-03 

 0-71 

 0-42 

 13-58 

 4-77 

 4-60 

 3-00 



0-5017 

 0-4508 ^ 

 0-0490 

 0-0290 

 0-0120 



0-7500 



V 



0-5408 



Annabergite. 



H 2 



0-75 

 1-5 



For the silicate the ratio will be 



(Ni, Zn, Fe) O : Si O 2 

 0-5408 : 0-5017 



1-08 : 1 



This is the ratio exactly, given by Groth for Garnierite. (Tabell. 

 Uebersicht, 2 Aufl.) The question remains, however, is Garnierite 

 an Ortho-or a Metasilicate ? Groth takes the latter alterna- 

 tive, writing the formula 



H 2 (Ni, Mg,) Si O 4 . } aq. 

 To the speaker this view does not seem confirmed by the present 

 results. The water is expelled too readily, over one-half at 100° C. r 

 and he would write the formula 



(Ni, Tu, Fe) Si s . U aq. 

 as a metasilicate. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



Experimenting with some Garnierite from Africa, the speaker ob- 

 served that the mineral behaves like the present one. It turns 

 brown and in a strong heat again green, not black as Damour states : 

 (Zeitschr. f. Crystallogr. Mineralogie, vol. iii, p. 636.) The speaker 

 thinks it proper to distinguish this zinciferous Garnierite by a new 

 name and proposes De Saulesite in honor of Major A. B. de Sanies, 

 E. M., the present manager of the Trotter mine, to whose kindness 

 in tarnishing the material, the author is much indebted and here- 

 with expresses his thanks. 



4. Tephrowillemite, an intermediate species. The speaker re- 

 ceived from Master Percy de Saules a broken crystal, found at the 

 same depth as the preceding minerals in the Trotter mine. The 

 crystal fragment shows two faces which intersect in an edge 1,5 

 inch long, conforming to 120° measured with a hand goniometer. 

 The crystal is imbedded in well cleaving gray calcite. Its sub- 

 stance is very homogeneous, showing under the microscope but a few 

 very small black grains, most probably Franklinite. 



The color is brownish-gray. Lustre resinous, unctuous. B. B. 

 Is infusible ; yields no water ; furnishes on charcoal a zinc incrusta- 

 tion and with the fluxes a strong manganese reaction. It gelat- 

 inizes completely with cold, concentrated hydrochloric acid. 

 The mean of two analvses gives: — 



SiO 2 =27-75' 0-4925 



Zn O = 60-61 0-7:502 



Mn O = 10-04 0-1360 



Fe 2 O 3 = 2-00 : = 1-80 Fe O 0-0250 ) .8912 



Ca O = trace 



1 



100-40 

 Under the supposition that the iron is all ferrous, the ratio 

 obtains: — 



Si O 2 : (Tn, Mn, Fe) = 

 0-4925 : 0-8912 



1 : 1-85 =1 : 2 



The formula is, therefore : — 



(Zn, Mn, Fe) 2 [Si O 4 ] 



5. Fluorite. — Whilst the species had been found in the mass 

 of the white marble in the quarries south-west of the furnace, it had 

 not previously been noticed within the ore body. The speaker ob- 

 served it in very light pink octohedrons, and in deeply purplish 

 masses, compact, small granular and large granular cleavage pieces. 

 It is chiefly notable as the supporting substance of the De Saulesite. 

 It is largely associated with the beautiful yellow sphalerite. 



6. Apatite. — The speaker noticed this species on a small specimen 

 showing an intimate mixture of the purple fluorite with yellow gar- 

 net. The apatite occurs in small prismatic crystals of bluish-green 

 color. The combination is P oc. P. 2 P 2. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



The spores of the Myxomycetes. — Mr. Harold Wingate, referring 



to the work done by Dr. Rostafinski some years ago upon the spores 

 of the Myxomycetes, and also to the recent paper by Mr. Geo. 

 Massee on the Trichiaceae, made a communication upon some of 

 the results he had obtained from the study of these reproductive 

 bodies. 



The speaker observed that for many years the mycologist had 

 been satisfied with the results obtained from the use of lenses from 

 t to i inch focus in arriving at the morphology of the spores of the 

 fungi, but of late years, in the study of the structural details of the 

 Myxomycetes, the results from the use of a good, high-power immer- 

 sion lens ( T V to i 1 * inch focus), have been so astonishing that the 

 careful investigation of this group is now impossible without such a 

 lens. 



The speaker for some years had spent considerable time in making 

 accurate drawings of the spores of this group, using a Zeiss water- 

 immersion lens equivalent to T V inch focus. It was interesting to 

 note that some of the drawings showed a tendency to fall into an 

 artificial series based upon the thickenings of the epispore, com- 

 mencing with simple structure and by gradual steps ending with a 

 rather complex one. 



The drawings were exhibited and the following types might be 

 selected as a series showing this progression: — 



1- — The series should begin with a spore absolutely without thicken- 

 ings, but, with the exception of the spore of an undescribed species, 

 no spore has yet been found in the speaker's collection which 

 would accurately fit this type from the hypercritical standpoint 

 of the present. 



2. — Thickenings of the epispore in the shape of isolated faint 

 warts, Arcyria puniceiz, Pers. 



3. — Thickenings in the shape of faint, sparsely scattered warts, 

 Comatricha pulchella, Bab. 



4. — Thickenings in the shape of faint warts somewhat thickly 

 scattered over the surface, Didymium squamulosum, A. & S. 



•>• — Thickenings in the shape of faint warts densely scattered over 

 the surface, Trichia fragilis, Sow. 



6. — Thickenings in the shape of warts arranged to form a pattern 

 having a reticulate appearance, Stemonitis fusca, Roth. 



7. — Thickenings in the shape of warts arranged to form a reticu- 

 late pattern, the warts confluent at their bases, Stemonitis dictyospora, 

 Rki. 



8. — Thickenings in the shape of warts which very frequently 

 coalesce to form a delicate fine-meshed net-work over the greater 

 portion of the epispore, the remaining surface with warts and ridges ; 

 the outline of the warted portion very irregular, Trichia seabra, Rki. 

 9— Thickenings in the shape of a delicate fine-meshed net-work 

 covering the greater portion of the epispore. 



A.— The portion without the fine net-work having scattered 

 warts and ridges and with an irregular outline, Tubulina 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



ci/ 1 hub- lea, Bull., Lycogala epidendrum, Buxb., Dermodium 

 conicum, Pers. 



B. — The portion without the fine net-work having a very 



wide-meshed net-work and with an irregular outline, Siphopty- 



chium Casparyi, Rki., Tubulina dipihtta, B. &. Rav. 



10. — Thickenings in the shape of a delicate, fine-meshed net-work 



covering about two-thirds of the surface, the remaining portion with 



scattered warts and ridges ; the warted portion having the sharp, 



regular outline of a wide spindle, the ends of the spindle lying at 



the poles of the sphere, JEnteridium Rozeanum, Rki. 



11. — Thickenings in the shape of a delicate fine-meshed net-work 

 covering about one-half of the surface, the remaining portion with 

 scattered warts and ridges ; the warted portion having a sharp, 

 regular, circular outline, Reticularia Lyeoperdon, Bull. 



It will be seen from this series how readily the rather complex 

 sculpturing of numbers 9, 10 and 1 1 might have had its origin from 

 a simple warted type by the gradual coalescence of the warts in 

 certain directions. 



Note on Orthotrlcha. — Mr. Harold Wingate also remarked 

 that in the Journal of Mycology for November, 1886, he had de- 

 scribed a new genus of Myxomycetes under the name of Orthotrlcha. 

 In some of the journals which noticed the article the genus was 

 mentioned as Orthotrichia, and in Saccardo'sSyllogeFungorum, vol. 

 vii, part i, this error was repeated. It is inferred that it was done 

 in error as no mention is made of any intention to correct the origi- 

 nal name. As the original name conflicted with that of a genus of 

 mosses, the speaker had concluded to adopt the orthography as given 

 in Saccardo: — Orthotrichia instead of Orthotricha. 



July 16. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Notes on the food of birds." By Frank C. Baker. 

 " A review of the European and American Uranoscopidae or Star- 

 Gazers." By Philip H. Kirsch. 



July 23. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Seven persons present. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Remarks on the Round-tailed Muskrat, Neofiber Alleni, True." 

 By Frank C. Baker. 



" Notes on the Anatomy of Pholas (Barnea) Costata and Zirphsea 

 Crispata, Lin." By W. H. Dall. 



" On the Anatomy of Aerope and Zingis." By H. A. Pilsbrv. 



July 30. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-president, in the chair. 



A paper entitled " Description of New Shells from the Island of 

 Segon, New Hebrides." By Wm. D. Hartman, was presented for 

 publication. 



The death of Charlemagne Tower, a member, on the 24th inst., 

 was announced. 



On report of the Publication Committee the request of the author 

 for the withdrawal of the following papers was granted : — 



" The Phylogeny of the Sweat-Glands." By John A. Ryder. 



" On the Origin and Meaning of Sex." By John A. Ryder. 



The following were ord Ted to be printed : — 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



NOMENCLATURE AND CHECK-LIST OF NORTH AMERICAN 



l 

 LAND SHELLS. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



The following list includes all of the species of land Pulmonata 

 known to me to inhabit America north of the Mexican Boundary. 

 I have taken this occasion to examine nearly every species (except 

 the Suceinea) and also to somewhat critically review the generic and 

 subgeneric nomenclature with a view to attaining greater stability. 

 The departures made from the ordinary usage of American mala- 

 cologists have been only such as seemed to me to be absolutely 

 necessary. The principal innovations are the following: 



PRISTILOMA Ancey. 



Mr. Ancey proposed in 1887 the subgenus Pristina for Z. lansingi 



and Z. steamsi Bid., two tiny Oregon species resembling Gonulus in 

 the shell. Later, the writer changecl the name to Anceyia (Pristina 

 being preoccupied), and redefined the group, pointing out the true 

 generic characters (which Mr. Ancey had overlooked). This name 

 also having been used for an African genus, Mr. Ancey replaced it 

 by Pristiloma. The genus is quite distinct from other American 

 modifications of the Zonites stock ; and in the combination of aculeate 

 or thorn-shaped marginal teeth of the radula with a strongly ribbed 

 jaw, can only be compared with the New Zealand genus Phacussa of 

 Hutton. I can see no reason for uniting this group to either Zonites 

 or Microphysa. 



PATTJLA Held. 



This division of the Helices seems to have sufficient individuality 

 to stand as a genus. It is composed of a large number of sub- 

 divisions founded on minor modifications of the shell, which varies 

 from large and strongly ribbed to minute, thin, subtranslucent ; and 

 whilst usually broadly umbilicated, is often more compactly con- 

 voluted, with only a minute perforation. The lip is always acute 

 and thin. The jaw is either striate or ribbed. Like Helix, the 

 genus is world-wide in distribution. In many of the sections I have 

 grouped here, the species, or part of them, are viviparous. 



PTYCHOPATULA Pilsbry. 



This name is proposed for a section of the genus Patula including 

 Neotropical Helices with minute, conical, thin shells, a narrow urn- 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



b Meal perforation, rounded or rounded-lunar aperture, the lip fragile, 

 simple, columellar margin expanded ; surface nearly smooth or 

 delicately, very obliquely ribbed. The color is brownish or greenish. 

 The species have heretofore been scattered thiough two families aud 

 many subgenera (Acanthinula, Conulus, Pyramidula, etc.) by Pfeiffer 

 and other authors. The species are as follows : H. dioscoricola 

 C. B. Ad., H. punctum Morelet, H. ececa Guppy, JET. plagioptycha 

 Shutt., H. cwcoides Tate, H. ierensis Guppy, H. granum Strebel et 

 Pfeffer. This number will require some reduction, as the first three 

 forms are very closely allied, and the last four equally so. 



MICROPHYSA Albers. 



The note in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1889, p. 82, contains the 

 writer's views on this little group, which is allied to Microeonus and 

 the smaller forms of Patula. The name Mierophysa is preoccupied, 

 and may have to be replaced, in which event Thysanophora Strebel 

 may be used, as it seems to be practically synonymous. The section 

 is essentially West Indian. 



PUNCTUM Morse. 



This genus was perfectly defined by Morse, and should, I am con- 

 vinced, be restricted to species agreeing with the original diagnosis 

 in characters of animal. I am unable to follow Mr. Binney in 

 uniting it to Mierophysa, or Dr. Fischer in including Glyptostoma 

 with it. 



HELIX Linn. 



The genus Helix, restricted, after the elimination of those groups 

 possessing distinct structural characters, is capable of division into a 

 moderate number (about twenty) of groups which may be ranked as 

 subgenera. Most of these consisting of a number of minor groups, 

 the characters of which usually merge more or less completely into 

 one another in some species. For the primary divisions of the genus, 

 the characters of the shell, genitalia and dentition have about equal 

 value ; and the consideration of either one of these characters to the 

 exclusion of the others is almost certain to result in a false grouping.* 

 The older writers on land shells, especially Ferussac, defined a large 

 number of subgenera founded on characters of the shell alone ; but 

 most of these groups have proved to be so heterogeneous that we are 



* Semper's classification founded principally on the genitalia is a notable ex- 

 ample of this. The characters of the jaw are of comparatively slight value in the 

 Helices. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



compelled to reject them entirely. The same objection applies to 

 many of the divisions made by H. and A. Adams. Albers, in 1850, 

 inaugurated what may be called the modern period in Heli- 

 cology ; and von Martens and Pfeiftei have successively (and gener- 

 ally successfully) elaborated the structure of Albers. 



LYSINOE H. ana A. Ad. 



Consists of Helices of Old World affinities, confined to Mexico and 

 the West Coast. The species are excessively variable and plastic, 

 and their inter-relations can be understood only by one acquainted 

 with the conditions under which they exist. This knowledge of their 

 environment I do not possess ; and in the specific distinctions I follow 

 mainly Binney, with, however, a different grouping, and a number 

 of other departures from his arrangement. I cannot admit that 

 " Aglet la" (as distinct from " Arionta ") has any claims to the 

 slightest systematic rank ; nor do Helminthoghjpta or Micrarionta, 

 or " Euparypha" have any characters worth the time it takes to 

 write them down. Several species of " Helminthoglypta" have 

 varieties which are not " helminth oglyptous;" Mlcrarlonta is united 

 to the other species by H. rufocincta and other species; and as to 

 '• Euparypha," its species (H. tryoni, eireoletta, etc.) are merely arid- 

 country forms of the kelletti and intereisa group of Lysinoe. The 

 true Euparypha is a European section closely allied to Xerophila, 

 Frutieicola, etc., and belonging to a different phylum of Helices. 



POLYGYRA Say. 



Equals, in part, Anchistoma Ads., Try on, Fischer and others. 

 Includes as sections, Polygyra, Mesodon, Triodopsis, etc. 



I have adopted Polygyra as the name for that group of American 

 Helices characterized by a horn-colored striate shell, with reflected 

 white peristome, usually toothed within; ribbed jaw; genitalia 

 simple, without dart-sack or appendages other than the essential 

 organs, penis without flagellum, duct of the spermatheca short. The 

 subgenus thus defined is very homogeneous. Numbers of species 

 would go equally as well in Mesodon as in Triodopsis or Stenotrema. 

 H. levettei Bid., is as nearly related to Polygyra helictomphala Pfr., as 

 to Triodopsis, etc., etc. Atopa, Plectopylis, and a number of other 

 sections referred to "Anchistoma" by Tryon, Fischer, and others, 

 should be Avidely sundered from this subgenus. There are several 

 striking and important anatomical differences. On account of the 

 heterogeneous composition of Anchistoma I have dropped that name 



14 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



altogether, and have substituted Pohjgyra, the oldest name proposed 

 for a member of the subgenus as restricted here. The species are 

 nearly all American. 



PUPA. 



In this difficult genus I have had the advantage of the experience 

 of Dr. V. Sterki of New Philadelphia, Ohio, who has kindly 

 criticised my mss., pointing out to me the distinctions between V. 

 pentodon and V. curvidens; the identity of P. simplex with P. 

 edeutulu of Europe, and the generic position of this species, which 

 had heretofore been classed in Vertigo;* and also for information 

 regarding the curious little group Angudula, lately proposed by him. 

 The balance of the species I have left as in my original mss. I have 

 not been able to make certain other chansres recommended by Dr. 

 Sterki. P. sterri Voith, a European species, has been identified by 

 him from Colorado, but I am disposed to refer the form to some 

 variety of P. muscorum. 



SUCCINEA Drap. 



I have made no special study of this genus. The species are 

 a rranged alphabetically. 



VAGINULUS Blainv. 



The reasons for adopting the name Yaginulus instead of Veroni- 

 cella given by Fischer (Manual, p. 493, and Moll. Mex. et l'Amer. 

 Cent.) seem to me conclusive. 



Origin. In regard to origin of the snail fauna of the United 

 States, we may roughly divide the species into six categories, as 

 follows : 



(1.) Species introduced by human agency, such as Helix horten- 

 sis, Limax agrestis and maximus, Rumina decollata, etc. These are 

 principally European forms, and are as yet only locally distributed. 

 In the list they are indicated by having their numbers in brackets. 



(2.) Species inhabiting both Pakearctic and Nearctic regions. 

 Mostly minute boreal forms. Pupa muscorum, Helix pulchella, 

 Zonites radiatulus, Punctum pi/gmmim, etc., are examples. 



(3.) Pacific slope or Californian fauna. This fauna occupies the 

 region lying west of the Sierra Nevada, — a range which divides 

 America into two primary faunal provinces. This division was com- 

 menced with the upheaval of the Sierras in Jurassic times, constitut- 



* Dr. Sterki calls the subgenus containing P. edentula, "Edentulina" but 

 this name is preoccupied in Streptaxida: and elsewhere. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



ina; a barrier which was insurmountable to most land snails. From 

 the gradually receding Pacific, California, a narrow, long strip, 

 emerged. Sometime in the early tertiary (probably ) there was an 

 infusion of Palsearctic types into this region, from the Northwest. 1 

 To this influence we owe the Arionta-like shells, Gonostoma, Ario- 

 limax (most nearly related to the Old World genus Arion), etc., 

 which are closely allied to characteristic Palsearctic types, but ai*e 

 quite different from the snails of Eastern North America. 



(4.) American fauna, embracing the whole country lying East of 

 the Sierra ^Nevada range. This is the autochthonous American 

 fauna, developed with very little trace of Old World influence, or 

 none at all, from an early, probably Cretaceous, period. Characteristic 

 groups are Jlesodon, Stenotrema, Triodopsis, Polygyra, Strepoma- 

 tidoe, Campeloma, Amnicola, Somatogyrus, etc. 



In the South this fauna has received species from two sources: (5) 

 Mexican species, such as Bulimulus alternatus and schiedeanus, Holo- 

 spira, etc., and (6) West Indian and Central and South American 

 forms which have passed into Florida, such as Orthalicus, Liguus, 

 Bulimulus Oylindrella, Microphysa, Ptychopatula, etc. The number 

 of these makes it probable that there has been land connection with 

 South America by way of the Antilles and Caribees ; a theory which 

 derives no slight support from the finding in Florida of quaternary 

 fossil Glyptodon and other South American forms. 2 



Family i. TESTACELLIDJE. 

 Genus i. GLANDINA Schumacher, 1817. 



1. Glaxdixa truxcata Gmel. Coast Region from Ga. and 



Fla., to Texas, 

 la. Glaxdixa truxcata bullata Gld. Louisiana, 

 lb. Glaxdixa truucata parallela W. G. Binney. Florida. 



2. Glaxdixa texasiaxa Pfr. Brownsville, Texas. 



3. Glaxdixa decussata Desh. Central Southern Texas. 



4. Glaxdixa vanuxemensis Lea. Southern Texas. 



Family ii. SELENITIDJE Fischer. 

 Genus ii. SELENITE3 Fischer, 1878. 



•3. Selexites coxcava Say. Eastern U. S. 

 6. Selexites vaxcouverexsis Lea. Washington Ter., to 

 Alaska ; Western Idaho. 



i Siberia and Alaska are now united by a ridge covered by less than 50 

 fms." depth. This was probably dry land during the Eocene, as it is also said to 

 have been during part of the Quaternary. 



2 See Proc. Acad. X. S. Phila. ]88'J, p. 96. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



7. Selenites hemphilli W. G. Binn. Eastern Oregon and 



Washington Ter. 



8. Selenites sportella Gld. San Diego to Puget Sound. 



9. Selexites voyana Newc. San Diego to Trinity Co., Gal. 

 9a. Selenites voyana simplicilabris Ancey. Cal. 



10. Selenites duranti Newc. San Francisco, Cal., south- 

 ward. 

 10a. Selenites duranti ccelata Mazyck. Southern Cali- 

 fornia. 



Family iii. LIMACID^. 

 Genus iii. LIMAX Linn. 



[11.] Limax maximus Linn. New Bedford and Cambridge, 

 Mass. ; Philadelphia, Pa. ; New Braunfels, Texas. 



[12.] Limax flavus Linn. Most large cities of Atlantic Coast. 



[13.] Limax agrestis Mull. Most large cities of Atlantic 

 Coast. 



14. Limax campestris Binn. IT. S. east of Rocky Mts. 



15. Limax montanus Ingersoll. Utah ; Colorado. 



16. Limax hyperboreus Westerlund. Labrabor. 



17. Limax hewstoni Cooper. San Francisco, Cal. 



Genus iv. VITRINA Drap., 1801. 



18. Yitrina limpida Gld. Northern U. S. 



19. Yitrina pfeifferi Newc. Mts. of Utah, Nevada, Idaho. 



Cal., etc. 



20. Yitrina angelice Beck. Greenland. 



21. Yitrina exilis Morel. Alaska; Labrador. 



Genus v. VITRINOZONITES W. G. Binn., 1879. 



22. Yitrinozonites latissimus Lewis. Mts. of E. Tennessee 



and Western N. Carolina. 



Genus vi. ZONITES Montf., 1810. 

 (Section Mesomphix Rafinesque, 1819.) 



23. Zonites capnodes W. G. Binn. E. Tennessee ; Northern 



Alabama ; Western N. Carolina. 



24. Zonites fuliginosus Griff. Eastern U. S. 



25. Zonites friabilis W. G. Binn. Eastern U. S. 



26. Zonites caducus Pfr. New AVashington, Texas (?) 



27. Zonites L.EVIGATUS Pfr. Western Pennsylvania to Arkan- 



sas and Florida. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



28. Zonites DEMISSUS Binn. Western Pennsylvania to Texas 



and Georgia. 



29. Zonites acekrus Lewis. Mts. of E. Tennessee and 



Western X. Carolina. 



30. Zonites ligerus Say. Eastern U. S. 



31. Zonites intertexttjs Binn. Eastern U. S. 



32. Zonites cerinoideus Anth. Virginia to Florida. 



33. Zonites inornatus Say. Appalachian Alts., Penna., 



Southward 



34. Zonites subplanus Binn. Mts. of Eastern Tenn., and 



Ky. ; Western Penna. and X. C. 



35. Zonites rugeli W. G. Binn. Western N. C. 



36. Zonites s< ulptilis Bid. Western X. C. ; Eastern Tenn. ; 



Northern Ala.; Northern Texas. 



37. Zonites elliotti Redf. Mts. of Ga., Tenn., Western X. 



C. and Va. 



(Section Hyalina Fer., 1819.) 

 [38.] Zonites ceelarius Mull. Principal cities of Eastern 

 States; Portland, Oregon. 



39. Zonites whitneyi Xewc. Sierra Nevada Mts., Cal. ; 



Utah. 



40. Zonites nitidus Mull. Xorthern U. S. and British 



America. 



41. Zonites arboreus Say. Entire U. S. 



42. Zonites radiatulus Alder, ("viridulus Mke. ;" electrinus 



Gld.) 



43. Zonites dallianus Simpson. Western Fla. 



44. Zonites indentatus Say. Dakota to Texas and eastward. 

 4-1. Zonitfs subrupicolus Dall. Cave in Utah. 



46. Zonites wiieatleyi Bid. Knoxville, Tenn.; (Tiverton, 



R. I.?) 



47. Zonites petrophilus Bid. Knoxville, Tenn. ; Habersham 



Co.. Ga. ; Clarkesville, X. C. 

 4*. Zonitks limatulus Ward. Xew York to Cal. and 

 northward. 



49. Zonites minuscules Binn. Entire U. S. 



49a. Zonites minusculus alachuanus Dall. Alachua Co., 

 Fla. 



50. Zonites siNciEEYANus Pilsbry. Central Texas. 



51. Zonites milium Morse. Entire U. S. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889- 



52. Zonites binneyanus Morse. North-eastern U. S. ; 



Canada. 



53. Zonites ferreus Morse. Maine. 



54. Zonites exiguus Stimpson. North-eastern U. 8. ; Canada. 



55. Zonites chersinellus Dall. Calaveras Co., Cal. 



56. Zonites lawi W. G. Binn. Eastern Tenn. 



57. Zonites capsella Gld. Mts. of Eastern Tenn., and W. 



Va. 



58. Zonites placentulus Shutt, Eastern Tenn., and Ky ; 



W. Va., Ark. 



59. Zonites sterkii Dall. Ohio. 



60. Zonites selenitoides Pilsbry. California. 



(Section Conulus Fitzinger, 1833.) 



61. Zonites fulvus Drap. Entire U. S. 

 61a. Zonites fulvus egenus Say. 



(Section Gastrodonta Albers, 1850.) 



62. Zonites gularis Say, Western Pa. to Ga. and Ala. 



63. Zonites suppresses Say. Eastern U. S. 



64. Zonites cuspid atus Lewis. Monroe Co., E. Tenn. ; Roan 



Mt., N. C. 



65. Zonites andrewsi W. G. Binn. Roan Mt., N. C. 



66. Zonites macilentus Shntt, Mts of Eastern Tenn. ; Western 



N. C. 



67. Zonites lasmodon Phillips. Eastern Tenn. ; Northern 



Ala. 



68. Zonites significans Bid. Tenn. ; Indian Ter. 



69. Zonites internes Say. Ohio and Missouri to Ga. 



70. Zonites multidentatus Binn. North-eastern U. S. ; 



Canada. 



Subgenus vii. GUPPYA Morch. 



71. Guppya? gundlachi Pfr. Western and Southern Ela. ; 



Genus viii. PRISTILOMA Ancey. 1887. 



72. Pristiloma lansingi Bid. Astoria, Oregon. 



73. Pristiloma stearnsi Bid. Oregon ; Washington Ter. , 



Alaska. 



Family iv. TEBENNOPHORIDiE. 



Genus ix. TEBENNOPHORUS Binn., 1842. 



(Section Tebennophorus.) 



74. Tebennophorus carolinensis Bosc. Eastern U. S. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



(Section Pallifera Morse.) 

 7o. Tebennophorus dorsalis Binn. North-eastern U. S. 



76. Tebennophorus wetherbyi W. G. Binn. Whitley Co., 



Ky. 



77. Tebennophorus hemphilli W. G. Binn. Hall Co., Ga. 



Family v. HELICIDJE. 

 Genus x. ARION Fer., 1819. 

 [78.] Arion fuscus Mull. Boston and New Bedford, Mass. 

 Genus xi. ARIOLIMAX Mbrch, 1860. 



79. Ariolimax columbianus Gld. Washington Ter. to Cal. 



80. Ariolimax oalifornicus J. G. Coop. Cal., near San 



Francisco. 



81. Ariolimax nicer J. G. Coop. Central California. 



82. Ariolimax hemphilli W. G. Binn. Alameda Co., Cal. 



83. Ariolimax andersoni W. Cv Binn. Alameda Co., Cal. 



84. Ariolimax hecoxi Wetherby. Santa Cruz, Cal. 



Genus xii. PROPHYSAON Bid. and Binn., 1873. 



85. Prophysaon hemphilli B. and B. Oregon ; California. 



86. Prophysaon andersoni J. G. Coop. Mendocino Co., 



Cal. 

 Genus xiii. HEMPHILLIA Bid. and Binn., 1872. 



87. Hemphillia glandulosa Bid., and Binn. Washington 



Ter. and Oregon. 



Genus xiv. BINNEYA J. G. Cooper, 1863. 



88. Binneya notabilis J. G. Coop. Santa Barbara Id., Cal. 



Genus xv. PATULA Held, 1837. 

 (Section Anguispira Morse, 1864.) 



89. Patula alternata Say. Eastern U. S. 



89a. Patula alternata fergusoni Bid. New York ; Ohio. 

 89b. Patula alternata mordax Shutt. Mts. of Tenn. and 

 Ya. 



90. Patula cumberlandiana Lea. Mts. of Eastern Tenn. 



91. Patula solitaria Say. Mississippi and Ohio Valleys; 



Northern Idaho ; Eastern Oregon, etc. 



92. Patula strigosa Gld. Nevada to Idaho and Colorado. 

 92. Patula strigosa strigosa Gld. (Including cooperi W. 



G. B. and utahensis Hemphill.) 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889, 



92a. Patula strigosa haydexi Gabb. (Including Hemphilli 

 Newc., gabbiana Hemphill, bruneri Ancey, wasatchensis 

 Hemphill.) Nevada, Idaho, Colorado, Utah. 



92b. Patula strigosa idahoensis Newc. (Including binneyi, 

 newcombi, castaneus, albqfasciata, gouldi and multicostata 

 of Hemphill.) Idaho ; Utah. 



(Section Discus Fitzinger.) 



93. Patula. perspectiya Say. ,Eastern U. S. 



94. Patula bryaxti Harper. Mitchell Co., X. Carolina. 



95. Patula striatella Anthony. 



95a. Patula striatella croxkhitei Newc. Klamath Valley, 

 Oregon. 



96. Patula ruderata pauper Gould. Alaska. 



97. Patula horxii Gabb. Arizona. 



(Section Ptychopatula Filsbry, 1889.) 



98. Patula c.eca Gappy. St. Augustine to Hillsborough 



River, Florida ; Hidalgo, Texas. 



99. Patula granum Strebel and Pfeffer. Alachua Co. ; Evans' 



Plantation, Rogers River ; and near Lake Worth, Florida. 



(Section Planogyra Morse, 1864.) 



100. Patula asteriscus Morse. Maine to Washington Ter. 



and Northward. 



(Section Microphysa Albers-Martens, I860.) 



101. Patula incrustata Poey. Galveston, Corpus Christi, 



and Hidalgo, Texas. 



102. Patula vortex Pfr. Southern Florida. 



103. Patula ingersolli Bid. Lawrence, Kansas; Colorado; 



Utah; Umatilla Co., Oregon. 



Subgenus HELICODISCUS Morse, 1S64. 



104. Patula lixeata Say. Entire U. S. 



105. Patula fimbriata Wetherby. Mts. of Eastern Tennessee; 



Subgenus ACANTHINULA Beck, 1837. 



106. Patula iiarpa Say. Maine to Minnesota and Northward. 



Genus xvi. PUNCTUM Morse, 1864. 



107. Puxctum PYiiJLEUM mixutissimum Lea. Entire U. S. 



108. Puxctum conspectum Bid. Monterey, Cah, to Alaska ; 



Colorado. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 201 



Genus xvii. HELIX Linne, 1758. 



Subgenus HELIX (restricted). 



(Group Pentataenia A. Schm.) 



(Section Pomatia Beck. 1837.) 



[109.] Helix aspersa Miill. Charleston S. C, New Orleans ; 



Santa Barbara, Cal., etc. 



(Section Tachea Leach, 1840.) 

 [110.] Helix nemoralis Mull. Lexington, Va,; Burlington, N. J. 

 [110a.] Helix nemoralis hortensis Linn. Newfoundland to 

 Cape Cod, along the Coast. 



(Group Arianta Leach, 1840.) 

 (Section Lysinoe H. and A. Ad., 1855.) 



111. Helix fidelis Gray. Northern Cal. to Vancouver Id. 

 Ilia. Helix fidelis infumata Gould. Coast of Cal., from 



Marin Co. to Mendocino Co. 



112. Helix townsendiana Lea. Oregon. 



113. Helix arrosa Gonld. Santa Cruz to Mendocino Co., Cal. 



114. Helix exarata Pfr. Santa Cruz to Marin Co., Cal. 



115. Helix californiensis Lea. Monterey, Cal. 



115a. Helix californiensis nickliniana Lea. Santa Cruz to 

 Mendocino Co., Cal. 



115b. Helix californiensis anachoreta W. G. B. Cal- 

 ifornia. 



115c. Helix californiensis ramentosa Gould. Napa Co. to 

 Santa Clara Co., Cal. 



115d. Helix californiensis bridgesi Newc. San Pablo, Cal. 



115e. Helix californiensis diabloensis J. G. Coop. Near 

 San Francisco, Cal. 



116. Helix tudiculata Binney. San Diego to Ventura Co., 



and Merced, Tuolumne and Calaveras Cos., Cal. 



117. Helix dupetithouarsi Desh. Monterey, Cal. 



118. Helix traski Newcomb. Los Angeles to Ft. Tejon and to 



San Luis Obispo. 



119. Helix sequoicola Cooper. Santa Cruz Co., Cal. 



120. Helix mormonum Pfr. Fresno Co. to Klamath Lake, 



Cal. 

 120a. Helix mormonum circumcarinata Stearns. Stanislaus 

 Co., near Turlock, Cal. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



1201). Helix moemosum hillebrandi Newc. Calaveras and 

 Tuolumne Cos., Cal. 



121. Helix carpexteri Kewc. San Diego, Cal. 



122. Helix rowelli Newc. Salt River Mts., 7 miles north of 



Phoenix, Arizona. 

 12.°). Helix rufoctxcta Newc. Catalina Id., Cal. 



124. Helix gabbi Newc. Is. of San Clemente, Santa Barbara 



and San Nicolas, Cal. 

 124a. Helix gabbi facta Newc. Santa Barbara Id., Cal. 



125. Helix kelletii Forbes. San Diego and Catalina Id., 



Cal. 



126. Helix stearnsiaxa Gabb. San Diego, Cal. 



127. Helix ayresiaxa Newc. Is. of Santa Cruz, San Miguel, 



Santa Rosa, Cal. 



128. Helix ixterctsa W. G. Binney. San Clemente Id., and 



Santa Cruz Id., Cal. 



129. Helix ixtercisa redimita \V. G. Binney. San Clemente 



Id., Cal. 



130. Helix tryoni Newc. Santa Barbara and San Nicolas 



Is., Cal. 



(Section Praticola Strebel et Pfeffer,) 



131. Helix berlandieriaxa Moricand. Texas. 



132. Helix griseola Pfeiffer. Southern Texas. 



Subgenus HEMITKOCHUS (Swains.) Pilsbry. 

 (Section Hemitrochus Swainson, 1840.) 



133. Helix varians Menke. Florida Keys. 



Subgenus FRUTICICOLA Held. 

 (Section Fruticicola Held, 1837.) 

 [134.] Helix hispida Linne. Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 

 [135.] Helix rufescexs Pennant. Quebec, Canada. 

 [136.] Helix cantiaxa Montagu. Q,uebec, Canada. 



(Section Turricula Beck. 1837.) 

 [137.] Helix elegans Gmel. (T. terrestris Chemn., Binney) 

 Charleston, S. Carolina. 



Subgenus GLYPTOSTOMA Binney ami Bland. 



138. Helix newberryaxa W. G. Binney. Los Angeles, Cal. 

 to Todos Santos Bay, L. Cal. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Subgenus POLYGYKA Say, 1818. 

 i Section Mesodon Rafinesque, ls31.) 



139. Helix jejuna Say. Georgia ; Florida. 



139a. Helix jejuna mobiliana Lea. Southern Alabama. 



140. Helix lawi Lewis. Northwestern Ga., Western N. C. 



East Tenn. 



141. Helix downieaxa Bid. Eastern Tenn. and Kentucky. 



142. Helix mitchelliana Lea. N. C. to Kentucky and Ohio. 



143. Helix clausa Say. Ohio to Dakota, Mississippi and 



Carolina. 



144. Helix multilineata Say. New York to Dakota. 



145. Helix thyroides Say. Eastern U. S. 



145a. Helix thyroides bucculenta Gld. Southern U. S. 



146. Helix andrewsi W. G. Binn. Western N. C. ; North- 



western Ga. 



147. Helix albolabris Say. Eastern U. S. 



147a. Helix albolabris major Binney. S. Carolina to Fla. 



148. Helix exoleta Binn. Western N. Y. to Missouri and 



Ga. 



149. Helix dentifera Binn. Maine to Ohio and Ga. 



150. Helix roemeri Pfr. Central and Northern Texas. 



151. Helix divesta Gould. Mississippi, Ark., Indian Ter. 



152. Helix wetherbyi Bid. Eastern Tenn. and Ky. ; Western 



N.C. 



153. Helix christyi Bid. Western North Carolina. 



154. Helix wheatleyi Bid. Western N. C. and Ga. 



155. Helix pennsylvanica Green. Western Penna. to Ya. 



and 111. 



156. Helix eleyata Say. N. Y. to Wis., south to Missouri 



and Ga. 



157. Helix clarki Lea. Eastern Tenn. ; Western N. C. 



158. Helix Columbiana Lea. Sitka to Santa Cruz, Cal. 



159. Helix armigera Ancey. California. 



160. Helix ptychophora A. D. Brown. Idaho. 



161. Helix deyius Gould. Oregon. 



162. Helix profunda Say. Western N. Y. to Minn, and 



Kansas ; South to Virginia. 



163. Helix kiowaensis Simpson. Indian Ter. 



164. Helix sayii Binney. Canada to Mich, and 111.; South to 



Md. and Tenn. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



104a. Helix sayii chilhoweensis Lewis. East Tenn. ; Western 



N. C. 



i Section Stenotrema Raf., 1819.) 



165. Helix hiesuta Say. Eastern U. S. 



166. Helix stenotrema Fer. Kentucky Southward. 



167. Helix labrosa Bid. Eastern Tennessee ; Northern Ala- 



bama; Arkansas. 



168. Helix maxillata Gld. Mts. of Tennessee, Alabama and 



Georgia. 



169. Helix edgariaxa Lea. Mts. of Tennesee, Northern Ala- 



bama aud Georgia. 



170. Helix spinosa Lea. East Tennessee ; Northern Alabama. 



171. Helix edvardsi Bid. Eastern Tennessee; West Vir- 



ginia. 



172. Helix barbigera Piedf. Eastern Tennessee; Northern 



Alabama. 



173. Helix monodon Rack. Eastern U. S. 



173a. Helix monodon eratkrna Say. Eastern U. S. 



173b. Helix monodon ctncta Lewis. Hayesville, N. C. 



174. Helix leaii Ward. Ohio to Iowa. 



175. Helix germana Gld. Oregon. 



(Section Triodopsis Rafinesque. 1819.) 



176. Helix tridentata Say. Eastern U. S. 



177. Helix fallax Say. Eastern U. S. 



178. Helix introferens Bid. Penna. to Ga., Tenn. and 



Kentucky. 



179. Helix vannostrandi Bid. South Carolina ; Georgia. 



180. Helix hopetonensis Shutt. North Carolina to Fla. 



181. Helix vultuosa Gld. Ark. to Texas ; Florida. 



182. Helix Henrietta Mazyck. Eastern Texas. 



183. Helix copei Wetherby. Eastern Texas; Western La. 



184. Helix cragini Call. Kansas. 



185. Helix inflecta Say. Eastern U. S. 



186. Helix rugeli Shutt, Eastern Tenn. and Ky. ; Western 



N. C. 



187. Helix appressa Say. Eastern U. S. 



188. Helix palliata Say. Eastern U. S. 



189. Helix obstricta Say. Indiana to Georgia. 



190. Helix mullani Bid. Northern Idaho. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



191. Helix binominata Tryon. (Trio, hemphilli W. G. B. 



preoc.) Northern Idaho. 



192. Helix sanburni W. G. Binn. Northern Idaho. 



193. Helix salmoxexsis Tryon. (Trio, harfordiana W. G. B. 



preoc.) Idaho. 



194. Helix loricata Gld. California. 



195. Helix roperi Pilsbry. Redding, California. 



196. Helix levettei Bid. New Mexico ; Arizona. 



i Section Polygyra Say, 1818.) 



197. Helix auriculata Say. Florida. 



197a. Helix auriculata microforis Dall. Alachua Co., Fla. 



198. Helix uyulifera Shntt. Gulf Coast, Florida to Texas. 



199. Helix postelltana Bid. South Carolina to Florida. 



200. Helix auriformis Bid. Florida to Texas ; Indian Ter. 



201. Helix espiloca Rav. South Carolina to Texas. 



202. Helix avara Say. Florida. 



203. Helix leporina Gld. Illinois to Texas and Georgia. 



204. Helix pustuloides Bid. Georgia ; Alahama ; Tennessee. 



205. Helix pustula Fer. South Carolina to Florida ; Texas ? 



206. Helix fastigaxs L. W. Say. Tennessee ; Kentucky. 



207. Helix troostiana Lea. Tennessee ; Kentucky. 



208. Helix jacksoxi Bid. Indian Ter. ; Southern Missouri ; 



Arkansas (Florida ?). 

 208a. Helix jacksoni deltoidea Simpson. Indian Territory. 



209. Helix dorfeuilliana Lea. Kentucky to Alabama, 



Missouri to Indian Ter. and Texas. 

 209a. Helix dorfeuilliana sampsoni Wetherby. Arkansas. 



210. Helix hazardi Bid. Tenn. and Ala. to Ark. 



211. ? Helix oppilata Moric. Florida Keys. 



212. Helix mooreana \Y. G. Binn. Texas. 



212a. Helix mooreana tholus \Y. G. Binn. Texas. 



21 3. Helix texasiana Moric. Texas ; Indian Ter. 



214. Helix triodontoides Bid. Indian Ter. ; Texas. 



215. Helix vextrosula Pfr. Southern Texas. 



216. Helix hindsi Pfr. Southern Texas. 



217. Helix ariadnje Pfr. Southern Texas. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



218. Helix hippocrepis Pfr. Comal Co., Texas. 



* 



219. Helix cereolus Muhlf. Georgia ; Florida ; Alabama. 

 219a. Helix cereolus laminifera Binn. (P. cereolus W. G. 



B.) Florida. 

 219b. Helix cereolus microdonta Desh. (carpenteriana 



Bid., febigeri Bid.) Florida to Texas. 

 219c. Helix cereolus septenvolva Say. Florida. 



(Section Polygyrella Bland, 1878.) 



220. Helix polygyrella Bid. and Coop. Idaho ; Montana. 



221. Helix harfordiaxa J. G. Cooper. Fresno Co., Cal. 



(Section Gonostoma Held, 1837.) 



222. Helix yatesi J. G. Coop. Calaveras Co., Cal. 



(Section Vallonia Risso, 1826.) 



223. Helix pulchella Mull. Entire U. S. 



224. Helix pulchella costata Mull. 



Subgenus STROBILA Morse, 1864. 



225. Helix labyrinthica Say. Eastern U. S. 



226. Helix hubbardi A. D. Brown. Texas; Florida; Georgia. 



Family vi. PUPIDJE. 



Genus xviii. PUPA Drap., 1801. 



Subgenus PUPA (restricted). 



(Section Pupilla Leach, =typical Pupa.) 



227. Pupa muscorum Linne. Northern U. S. 



227a. Pupa muscorum blandi Morse. Colorado ; Utah ; Mon- 

 tana. 



228. Pupa decora Gould. British America ; New York. 



229. Pupa corpulenta Morse. Colorado ; Utah ; Nevada. 



230. Pupa rowellii Newcomb. California ; Colorado. 



231. Pupa californica Rowell. California, 



232. Pupa. Colorado. 



233. Pupa calamitosa Pilsbry. San Diego and Lower Cal. 



(Section Leucocheila Albers-Martens, 1860.) 



234. Pupa fallax Say. Entire U. S. 



234a. Pupa fallax arizonensis Gabb. Arizona. 



235. Pupa modica Gould. S. Carolina to Alabama, 



236. Pupa corticaria Say. Dakota to Mississippi and East- 



ward. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



237. Pupa rupicola Say. Southern and Middle States. 



238. Pupa hordeacea Gabb. Arizona. 



239. Pupa pellucida Pfeiffer. Texas ; Florida. 



240. Pupa armifera Say. Dakota and Kansas Eastward; 



Mexico ? 



241. Pupa contract a Say. Minnesota to Texas and Eastward. 



242. Pupa holzixceri Sterki. Illinois; Iowa; Minnesota. 



i Section .) 



243. Pupa edextula simplex Gould. New England to Ohio ; 



Canada. 

 243a. Pupa edextula alticola Ingersoll. Colorado ; Utah ; 

 fossil in Mississippi Valley Loess. 



Subgenus ANGUSTULA Sterki, 1889. 



244. Pupa milium Gould. Colorado to Maine. 



Genus xix. VERTIGO Muller. 



245. Vertigo ovata Say. Entire U. S. 



246. Vertigo gouldii Binney. Northeastern U. S. 



247. Vertigo bollesiana Morse. Northeastern States. 



248. Vertigo vextricosa Morse. Maine ; New York. 



249. Vertigo tridextata Wolf. New York to Illinois. 



250. Vertigo pextodox Say. Minnesota to Texas and East- 



ward. 

 250a. Vertigo pextodon cixcixxatiexsis Judge. Ohio. 



251. Vertigo curvidens Gould. Eastern States. 

 251a. Vertigo curvidens floridaxa Dall. Florida. 



252. Vertigo (?) variolosa Gould. Southern Florida. 



Genus xx. STROPHIA Albers. 



253. Strophia ixcaxa Binney. S. Florida. 



Genus xxi. H0L0SPIRA Albers-Martens. 



254. Holospira roemeri Pfeiffer. New Braunfels and Howard 



Springs, Texas. 



255. Holospira goldfussi Menke. Southern Texas. 



Family vii. STENOGYRID^J. 

 Genus xxii. RUMINA Risso, 1826. 

 Subgenus RUMINA (restricted . 



[256.] Eumixa decollata Linne. Charleston, S. C. 



(Section Opeas Albers. 1850.) 



257. Rumina octoxoides d'Orbigny. Florida. 



258. Eumixa subula Pfr. Mobile, Ala. ; Florida. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



(Section Melanieila Pfr.) 

 259. Rumina gracillima Pfeiffer. S. Florida. 

 Genus xxiii. FEEUSSACIA Risso, 1826. 

 Subgenus CIONELLA Jeffreys. 



200. Ferussacia subcylixdrica Linn. Northern U. S. 

 Genus xxiv. CCECILIANELLA Bourg. 

 £201.] Ccecilianella ACICULA Midler. Florida. 



Family viii- ORTHALICIDJE. 

 Genus xxv. LIGUUS Montfort, 1810. 

 262. Lrouus fasciatus Midler. S. Florida. 



Subgenus ORTHALICUS Beck, 1837. 



203. Liguus undatus Brug. S. Florida. 



Family ix. BULIMULIDJE. 

 Genus xxvi. BULIMULUS Auctorum. 

 264. Bulimulus dealbatus Say. South Carolina to Indian 



Ter. and Texas. 

 205. Bulimulus schiedeanus Pfr. Texas. 



266. Bulimulus alternatus Say. Louisiana ; Texas. 



267. Bulimulus patriarcha W. G. Binney. Southern Texas. 



* 



268. Bulimulus serperastrus Say. Southern Texas. 



269. Bulimulus multilineatus Say. Southern Florida. 



270. Bulimulus dormani W. G. Binney. 



271. Bulimulus marielinus Poey. S. Florida and Keys. 

 271a. Bulimulus marielinus hemphilli Wright. Florida. 



Family x. CYLINDRELL.ID.ffi. 



Genus xxvii. CYLINDRELLA Pfeiffer, 1840. 



272. Cylindrella poeyana Pfeiffer. S. Florida. 



273. Cylindrella jejuna Gould. S. Florida. 



Genus xxviii. MACROCERAMUS Guilding, 1828. 



274. Macroceramus pontificus Gould. S. Florida. 



275. Macroceramus gossei New Braunfels, Texas; Little 



Sarasota Bay, Fla. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Family xi. SUCCINEICffi. 

 Genus xxix. SUCCINEA Lrap., 1801. 

 270. Succinea AUREA Lea. Ohio ; Western N. Y. 



277. Succinea avaha Say. Northern States. 



278. Succinea campestris Say. Georgia; Florida. 



279. Succinea cheysis Westerl. Alaska. 



280. Succinea concordialis Gould. Texas. 



281. Succinea effusa Shutt. Florida to Louisiana. 



282. Succinea grcenlandica Beck. Greeuland. 



283. Succinea grosvenori Lea. Alexandria, La. 



284. Succinea hawkinsi Baird. Lake Osoyoos, Brit. Col- 



umbia. 



285. Succinea lineata W. G. B. Dakota and Idaho to New 



Mexico. 

 280. Succinea luteola Gould. Florida: Texas. 



287. Succinea mooresiana Lea. Nebraska. 



288. Succinea nuttalliana Lea. Oregon ; California. 



289. Succinea obliqua Say. Arkansas to Georgia Northward. 

 289a. Succinea obliqua totteniana Lea. New England to 



Penna. 



290. Succinea oregonensis Lea. Oregon ; California. 



291. Succinea ovalis Gould. Northern and Middle U. S. 



292. Succinea ovalis decampi Try on. Michigan. 



292a. Succinea ovalis haydexi W. G. B. Utah ; Nebraska. 



292b. Succinea ovalis higcjnsi Bland. Put-in-Bay, Lake Erie ; 



Iowa City, Iowa. 



292c. Succinea ovalis retusa Lea. Ohio. 



293. Succinea rustic ana Gld. Oregon; California; Nevada. 



294. Succinea salleana Pfeiffer. Louisiana. 



295. Succinea sillimani Bid. Nevada ; California. 



290. Succinea stretchiana Bid. Colorado; Nevada; Cali- 

 fornia. 



297. Succinea verrilli Bland. Anticosti Id., Gulf of St. 



Lawrence. 



Family xii. VAGINULID^ 

 Genus xxx. VAGINULUS Fer., 1821. 



298. Vaginulus floridanus Binney. Florida. 



299. Vacinulus olivaceus Stearns (?). Lobitos, California. 



15 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Family xiii. ONCHIDIICEi. 

 Genus xxxi. ONCHIDIUM Buchanan, 1800. 



300. Onchidium carpenteri W. G. Binney. Sts. of Fuca to 



Gulf of Cal. 



301. Onchidium floridantjm Dall. Knight's Key, Florida. 



Genus xxxii. ONCHIDELLA Gray, 1850. 



302. Onchidella borealis Dall. Alaska to Vancouver Id. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



NOTES ON THE OSTEOLOGY AND SYSTEMATIC POSITION 

 OF DINICTIS FELINA, LEIDY. 



BY W. B. SCOTT. 



The problem of the origin of the Felidos and of their relations to 

 the other families of Carnivora is one of such obscurity, that any 

 information upon the subject, however slight, cannot fail to be of 

 importance. Of all the American felines (or Pseud ailuroids, as. the 

 case may be) the genus Dbiictis is probably the most primitive and 

 therefore the one best adapted to throw light upon the line of 

 descent through which the group has passed. A considerable amount 

 of uudescribed material of this curious genus has come into my 

 hands, among which there is an almost complete hind leg and foot 

 belonging to the Princeton Museum (No. 10,035), which has led to 

 the preparation of these notes. 



The Skull. 



The skull has already been described by Dr. Leidy (No. 8 1 , pp. 64- 

 65), but additional material enables me to supplement his account. 

 The most important of the specimens to be described is a fine skull 

 in the Academy's Museum, the base of which exhibits some most 

 interesting characters. 



As in the primitive carnivores generally, the cranium is very long 

 and narrow and is sharply constricted some distance behind the 

 orbits, which marks the anterior limits of the cerebral hemispheres. 

 Posteriorly the cranium is broadest and tapers forwards more reg- 

 ularly and more rapidly than in the Viverridce and the constriction 

 above mentioned is further back of the orbits than in that family, 

 occupying the same relative position as in Dajrfuemis 2 and other 

 primitive eynoids. Another factor which is of importance in the con- 

 struction of the cranium is the elongation of the posterior jwrtion of it, 

 that part lying behind the mastoid processes. This region in Dhiic- 

 tis, as in the viverrines, Cyiwdictis,' 2 and in most creodonts, is very 



1 See list of Authors at end of paper. 



2 '1 he American eynoids of the White River and John Day epochs, which 

 Cope has called Galecynus and Leidy has referred to Amphicyon, are for the most 

 part more nearly like the European Cynodiciis, under which name they are refer- 

 red to here, though a careful comparison would not improl ably show them to be 

 distinct. The White River dogs with 3 upper molars are quite different from the 

 true Amphicyons, and for these the name originally given them by Leidy, Daph- 

 ceiuts, should be revived. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



long. In spite, therefore, of the greatly elongated cranium, includ- 

 ing in that term the region behind the anterior rim of the orbit ; the 

 space allotted to the cerebral hemispheres is comparatively short, 

 while the cavities for the hind-brain and the olfactory lobes are 

 long. The face in advance of the orbits is much contracted. 



The upper contour of the cranium slopes sharply downwards and 

 backwards from the highest point of the skull just behind the orbits, 

 while that of the face slopes downwards and forwards from the same 

 point, the two meeting in an open V. Of course at the point of 

 meeting the skull is disproportionately deep, while the muzzle, and 

 especially the occiput, is low. This gives the skull of Dinictis felina 

 a very characteristic physiognomy and is an exaggeration of the 

 arrangement found in Hoplophoneus and others of the Nimravidce, 

 but in the John Day species, I), cyclops, the contour is very different. 



The premaxillaries have well developed alveolar portions, which, 

 however, form a nearly straight transverse line and project but little in 

 advance of the canines ; the ascending ramus is very long and nearly 

 vertical, its upper portion sloping backwards less than in the viver- 

 rines and further removed from the frontals than in that family. 

 The maxilla has a high and short (antero-posteriorly) preorbital por- 

 tion which joins the frontal by a short straight suture. The suborbital 

 part of the maxilla exceeds the preorbital in length more than in the 

 cats and very much more than in Viverra, as the orbit is placed far 

 forward. The frontals are strongly inclined upwards and backwards 

 and appear to be very decidedly shorter than in the cats ; anteriorly 

 they together form a notch to receive the ends of the nasals, but the 

 fronto-nasal process is very short and more obtuse than in the cats, 

 its maxillary and nasal edges forming a right angle. The nasals are 

 longer than in the cats, but otherwise very much like them. The 

 lachrymal is small and does not extend at all upon the face, as it 

 docs in the creodonts, and just within the edge of the orbit it is 

 pierced by two foramina. 



The parietals, so far as the great Assuring of the specimens will 

 allow of a determination, seem to be much longer than in the cats 

 and to exclude the frontals from all share in roofing the cerebral 

 hemispheres. At all events the very long sagittal crest runs to a 

 point in advance of the post-orbital constriction, from which point 

 the supraciliary ridges diverge rapidly and pass outwards in bold 

 curves to the short post-orbital processes of the frontals. Besides 

 being long the parietals are deep vertically, extending far down on 

 the sides of the cranium. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



The squamosal is rather low, but long from before backwards ; the 

 root of the zygomatic process projects downwards below the basi- 

 cranial axis much more strongly than in the cats and civets, but not 

 to the same degree as in Hophphoneus, where it forms a peculiar and 



Fig. i. Diiuctis felina ; base of skull; car. carotid canal ; c.f. condylar 

 foramen ; f. I. p. foramen lacerum posterius ; glen, glenoid foramen ; f. o. for- 

 amen ovale ; as. hinder opening of alisphenoid canal ; p. p. f. posterior pala- 

 tine foramina ; /. g. post-glenoid process ; mas. mastoid process ; par. 

 paroccipital process ; ma. external auditory meatus. 



conspicuous, pedicel. The glenoid cavity is thoroughly feline in 

 appearance, owing to the strong development of the preglenoid 

 ridge. The zygomatic arches are very long, compressed and quite 

 heavy, though they do not arch out from the sides of the skull 

 so strongly as in the true cats. The post-orbital process of the 

 jugal is but feebly developed. Owing to the strong downward 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889- 



projection of the mastoid processes and their anterior position, the 

 distance between these and the post-glenoid processes is very short 

 hi id forms a deep narrow notch, which lends to this region of the 

 skull an appearance very different from the corresponding part in 

 the cats and civets. 



The occiput is low, and very broad at the base, but narrowing 

 rapidly upwards; it is exceedingly convex, in correspondence with 

 the very advanced position of the mastoids, and consequently much 

 of the occipital surface is visible in the side view of the skull. 

 Above the foramen magnum there is a strong convexity which 

 covers the prominent vermis of the cerebellum. The paroccipital 

 processes are short, almost rudimentary in fact ; they project back- 

 wards and are separated by a considerable interval from the auditory 

 bulla?, as in the mustelines. The mastoid processes are heavy, prom- 

 inent and not in contact with the bulla?. 



Notwithstanding the angle made by the upper contour of the face 

 and cranium, the cranio-facial axis is straight. The base of the 

 cranium is broad and the adenoid cavities of the two sides widely 

 separated from each other, which results in a somewhat unusual 

 arrangement of the foramina. The basi-occipital is not so broad as 

 in the Viverridce, and has sharp prominent edges which abut against 

 the sides of the tympanic bullae and so give the bone a deeply con- 

 cave shape from side to side. The bulla? are very large and were 

 almost certainly divided by an internal septum into two chambers, 

 though whether the chambers are situated one behind the other, as 

 in the Viverridce, or one internal to the other, as in the Felidce, can- 

 not be determined from the material at command, though the exter- 

 nal shape is rather feline. Though the opening into the bulla is 

 quite far removed from the surface, there is no tubular meatus audi- 

 torius other than that formed by the notch between the mastoid and 

 post-glenoid processes. The relation of the bulla? to the mastoid and 

 paroccipital processes recalls that which is found in the bears, save 

 that in Dinietis the latter processes are so small. 



The posterior nares are very long, owing to the fact that the bony 

 palate is not carried back of the molars. In front the opening is 

 broad and its anterior edge is formed by two emarginations of the 

 palatines, separated by a short median spine or angle; in the hinder 

 part of their course the walls of the nares are constricted, giving 

 them a characteristic appearance. The hamular processes of the 

 pterygoids are decidedly more feline than viverrine both in shape and 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



position, being much farther in advance of the glenoid cavity than 

 in the latter animals. The palatines are short and broad, the maxillo- 

 palatine suture being opposite the interval between the 3rd and 4th 

 premolars, and in general shape they resemble those of the cats. 

 The hard palate is very broad behind, and following the oblique 

 position of the molar series, it narrows rapidly forward, though it 

 never becomes very narrow on account of the abruptly truncated 

 muzzle. The palatine processes of the premaxillaries are well devel- 

 oped. The whole palatine region has a decidedly feline appearance, 

 though Cryptoprocta exhibits an approach to it, as it does in so many 

 other respects as well. 



The mandible is peculiar and is in most respects very closely like 

 that of Hoplophoneus, but the condyle is more elevated above the line 

 of the molars and the coronoid process is much higher ; the latter has 

 a less antero-posterior extent, is straight and less recurved than is 

 usual in the felines. The masseteric fossa is very deep and extends 

 forward beneath ^~r The horizontal ramus is compressed and rather 

 slender and shallow ; its lower border is nearly straight until the 

 front end is nearly reached, when it dips downwards to form the 

 flanges for the protection of the great upper canines, though these 

 Manges are not so long as in Hoplophoneus, in correspondence with 

 the less development of the tusks. The chin is slightly concave and 

 abruptly truncate, as in the sabre-tooths generally, and forms a right 

 angle with the side of the ramus; the symphysis is short and nearly 

 vertical. 



Foramina. These present a curious assemblage, being anything 

 but " ailuroid" in arrangement. The incisive foramina call for no 

 description, being much like those of the cats in size and position. 

 The posterior palatine foramina resemble those of the civets in so far 

 that they are in the maxillaries and not in the palatines, but they'are 

 placed much further back than in that group, being opposite the 

 anterior edge of pm. 3. There is an alisphenoid canal, the posterior 

 opening of which is nearer to the very large foramen ovale than in 

 the viverrines and indeed is enclosed in a common groove with it. 

 The latter is placed unusually far from the median line and is sep- 

 arated by a prominent ridge from the eustachian canal and the for* 

 amen lacerum medium, which occupy the ordinary position close to 

 the antero-internal angle of the bulla. There is a large and distinct 

 carotid foramen which is well separated from the foramen lacerum 

 posterius. The condylar foramen is also entirely separated from the 




21(5 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



latter, and there is no ridge running inwards from the paroccipital 

 process. There are also very large glenoid foramina. There is a 

 single large post-parietal foramen on each side of the sagittal crest. 

 The infra-orbital foramen is placed very close to the orbit, from which 

 it is separated only by a narrow bridge of bone ; it lies above pin. 3. 



The arrangement of foramina in Dinictis is thus seen to be very 

 much the same as that described by Cope in Archcelurus and others 

 of the NimravidcB (No. 2. p. 955), but no living carnivore presents 

 such an assemblage of characters in the basis cranii. These prim- 

 itive cats seem to show conclusively that the construction of the base 

 of the cranium has not the taxonomic value attributed to it by 

 Flower (No. 5) an opinion which Schlosser (No. 14, p. 233) has 

 reached on quite different grounds. The basis cranii of Dinictis is 

 perhaps on the whole more cynoid than anything else, though 

 ailuroid and even arctoid features occur. We shall return later to 

 a discussion of this cpiestion. 



The brain of Dinictis is unknown, but that of Hoplophoneus, a 

 nearly allied genus, has been described and figured by Bruce (No. 1, 

 p. 42, PI. vii, fig. 8). This is distinctly feline in character, though 

 as would naturally be expected, the convolutions are simpler aud less 

 winding; it bears obvious resemblance to the brain of Pseudozl urus 

 which Gervais has figured (No. 7, PI. 6, fig. 6) and which, as that 

 writer has pointed out, has certain affinities with the brain of Cryp- 

 toprocta and the viverrines. 



The Dentition. 



The dental formula of Dinictis is If CI Pm. f Ml, which, as 

 Leidy has observed, is the same as that of most mustelines, and also 

 occurs in JElurogale. 



•Upper Jaw. The incisors are in general cat-like and form a 

 straight, transversely directed row, separated by considerable dias- 

 temata from the canines. The external incisor is the largest of the 

 series and has a long, acute, conical and somewhat recurved crown, 

 except for its smaller size, very similar to that of Hoplophoneus. As 

 in that genus, there is no cingulum, such as occurs in the external 

 incisor of the cats. The median incisor is much smaller than the 

 outer one and has a simple pointed crown without cingulum. Only 

 the fang of the inner incisor is preserved, but this shows that the 

 tooth was still smaller and more compressed than the median one. 

 In Hoplophoneus the incisors are all much larger, all have similar 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



crowns, and are separated by wider spaces from each other and from 

 the canines. 



The upper canines of Dinictis are compressed and elongated tusks 

 of narrow oval section ; they are, however, shorter and less com- 

 pressed than in Hoplophoneus. 



The most anterior premolar (pm. 2) is exceedingly small, much 

 more reduced than in Cryptoprocta ; it has a compressed conical 

 crown with a sharp posterior cutting edge which is finely serrate, and 

 a very minute posterior basal cusp ; it is implanted by two fangs. 

 Pm. 3 is a large and well developed tooth ; it is much higher and more 

 compressed than in the Felidoz, and the large posterior cusp is single, 

 not double as in that family. This tooth resembles much the cor- 

 responding one in Cryptoprocta, but the principal cusp is more com- 

 pressed and has a greater antero-posterior extent. The sectorial 

 (pm. 4) is more canine than either felme or viverrine and differs from 

 pm. 3, only in its greater size, the greater proportional development 

 of the heel and the presence of the inner cusp. This tooth is very 

 like the sectorial of Cynodictis, exhibiting only the following differ- 

 ences : (1) the anterior cusp is more flattened ; (2) the heel is longer 

 and higher; (3) where the two come together there is a deeper fossa, 

 such as is found in cats ; (4) the inner cusp is less reduced, though 

 smaller than in Cryptoprocta and very much smaller than in the 

 Virerridce generally. Of the anterior basal cusp which is so char- 

 acteristic of the cats and which appears in Cryptoprocta and to a 

 certain extent in other viverrines, there is not a trace. The sectorial 

 of Hoplophoneus is decidedly more cat-like than that of Dinictis, as 

 is shown in the better development of the sectorial blade and in the 

 appearance of a small antero-external cusp. 



The single upper molar of Dinictis is very much better developed 

 than in the cats, or Cryptoprocta, or even than in Hopjlop>honens,hx\l is 

 much more reduced than in the Viverridce generally; it is not at all 

 overlapped or concealed by the sectorial, being plainly visible from 

 the side. The construction shows clearly its derivation from the 

 tritubercular pattern of Cynodictis, but the length of the tooth from 

 before backwards has been greatly reduced, so that the two outer 

 tubercles have come to stand in nearly the same transverse line, 

 while the inner cusp has extended far internally. The tooth is im- 

 planted by three fangs. In Hopjlophoneas the separation into three 

 cusps is very obscure. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Lower Jaiv. The crowns of the lower incisors are broken away in 

 all the specimens I have had the opportunity of examining, but the 

 fangs show that, as in the upper jaw, the outer teeth are the largest 

 of the series, and that, as in the cats, the lower incisors form a straight 

 row, the second one not being pushed back as is so commonly the 

 case among the Carnivora. 



In correspondence with the lesser development of the upper tusks, 

 the lower canine is larger than in Hoploplioneus. The crown is high, 

 conical and somewhat recurved. The most anterior premolar (pm. 2) 

 is very small and more reduced than in Oryptoprocta ; it consists of a 

 simple compressed cone implanted by two fangs. Pm. 3 is propor- 

 tionally larger, higher, more acute and more compressed than in the 

 cats ; it is composed of a principal conical cusp, with small anterior 

 and posterior cingular cusps. Pm. 4 is almost exactly like pm. 8 

 except that it is somewhat larger, and that the accessory cusps are 

 more conspicuous. Both of these teeth differ from the correspond- 

 ing ones of Fells not only in their relatively larger size and smaller 

 transverse diameter, but also in the absence of the posterior cingulum. 

 In Oryptoprocta the principal cusp is more slender and pointed and 

 the cingulum is better developed, especially on pm. 4, than in 

 Dinictis. In Proallurus these teeth are much like those of Orypto- 

 procta. 



The first or sectorial molar is very feline in appearance, though 

 with very obvious signs of its derivation from the tuberculo-sec- 

 torial type. The anterior cusp is formed just as in the cats, but 

 the posterior cusp is higher and less flattened and more distinctly 

 angulate between the lateral and posterior surfaces. In many speci- 

 mens there is a small but perfectly distinct postero-internal cusp, 

 which thus completes the primitive triangle of the tuberculo-sec- 

 torial molar, and in these specimens the tooth is almost a reproduc. 

 tion of the lower sectorial of Proallurus, as figured by Filhol (No. 

 4, PL 2, fig. 2). But in Dinictis this cusp is evidently on the point 

 of disappearing, as in some specimens it is present only on one side, 

 in others hardly visible at all. The talon is also very small and 

 has a sharp cutting edge, with no trace of accessory tubercles. The 

 second molar is very much reduced and has a small oval crown; the 

 fang, though single, is elongate and obviously formed by the coales- 

 cence of two, as is shown by the median groove which runs down 

 the inner face and by a partial division of the alveolus. The tooth 

 is much less reduced than in Proailurus. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



The dentition of Dinictw, like the skull, irresistibly suggests re- 

 lationship with the cats, and yet it still exhibits many important 

 primitive characters, of which may he mentioned the number of the 

 teeth, the large size of the upper molar and the presence of the in- 

 ferior tubercular ; the presence of a heel and of the posterior-in- 

 ternal cusp on the lower sectorial and the absence of the anterior 

 basal cusp from the upper sectorial. In these respects Dinictis de- 

 parts from the feline type and approximates the canine-viverrine 

 group. 



M EASUREMENTS. 



M. 



Total length of skull (condyles to premaxillaries), "154 



Length of cranium (to anterior rim of orbit), "108 



Length of face, '046 

 Distance from anterior rim of orbit to post -orbital constriction, '050 



Length of bony palate, '069 



Breadth of bony palate (posterior edge), "072 



Breadth of bony palate between canines, "026 

 Distance between foramen magnum and line of post-glenoid 



processes, '033 

 Distance between foramen magnum and line of mastoid 



processes, '0195 



Length first four cervical vertebra', '075 



Length of mandible, from the condyle, "119 

 (Second Specimen, Princeton Mus., No. 10,012.) 



Upper incisor series, transverse breadth, '029 



Third upper incisor, transverse diameter, "0045 



Third upper incisor, fore and aft diameter, "005 



Second upper incisor, transverse diameter, - 003 



Second upper incisor, fore and aft diameter, "003 



Upper canine, transverse diameter, '008 



Upper canine, fore and aft diameter, '012 



Length upper molar series, '049 



Length pm. 2, '0055 



Length pm. 3, '014 



Length pm. 4, -019 



Length m. I, '006 



Transverse diameter m. 1, '015 



Lower incisor series, transverse breadth, '016 



Third lower incisor, fore and aft diameter, '005 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Third lower incisor, transverse diameter, -0035 



Lower canine, fore and aft diameter, -008 



Lower canine, transverse diameter, -006 



Length lower molar series, -052 



Length pm. 2, -006 



Length pm. 3, -012 



Length pm. 4, -0145 



Length m. 1, -0185 



Length m. 2, .006 



Vertebrae. 

 Attached to the Academy's specimen of the skull of Dinictis,. 

 which has been described above, are the four anterior cervical verte- 

 bras, which are decidedly feline in character, and resemble those of 

 the John Day Nimravldce described and figured by Cope. The atlas 

 is badly broken and only the slender inferior arch and deep anterior 

 cotyli can be certainly made out. The parts preserved, however, 

 agree closely with the atlas of Hoplophoneus, which in its turn is 

 most like that of Oryptoprocta. The transverse processes are much 

 more widely extended than in the Viverridce generally, and there is, 

 as in that family, a foramen in the anterior edge of the transverse 

 process (centroido-diapophysial, Albrecht) which in the cats is rep- 

 resented by a deep notch. The axis, so far as preserved, agrees 

 rather better with that of Oryptoprocta than that of Hoplophoneus; 

 the odontoid process is a very long and slender peg, while in Hop- 

 lophoneus it is broader and more depressed than is usual in the 

 carnivores. The centrum is depressed, slightly opisthocoelous and 

 provided with a small hypapophysial keel ; the atlanteal facets are 

 extended transversely, but have a small vertical diameter and are 

 not eniarginated by the neural canal. The posterior face of the cen- 

 trum is set obliquely to the long axis, as are the faces of the succeed- 

 ing vertebras, though not to the same extent as in the large cats. The 

 transverse processes are slender and shorter than in Oryptoprocta and 

 the anterior opening of the vertebrarterial canal is placed much 

 further forward than in that genus. The neural arch is high and 

 narrow and not obstructed behind by opisthapophyses, as in the 

 recent felines. The third and fourth cervicals have rather short and 

 quite broad centra, with hardly any indications of hypapophysial 

 keels. They are slightly opisthocoelous and the articular faces arc 

 somewhat oblique. The third has the neural spine represented by a 

 very low ridge, and as in the felines there are opisthapophyses ; the 




188!».] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



transverse processes are slender and the pleurapophysial plates but 

 little developed. The hind part of the neural arch of the fourth is 

 broken away so that nothing can be determined as to the character 

 of the spine and the opisthapophyses ; the pleurapophysial plate is 

 much better developed than on the third vertebra. 



Fore-Limb. 



This member is but very scantily represented in the collections, the 

 only portions of it which I have seen being fragments of the humerus 

 and radius. Fortunately there can be no doubt as to the refer- 

 ence of these specimens, as they were found associated with a skull 

 i Nil 10,012 of the Princeton Museum). The humerus is too much 

 mutilated for description, further than to say that this bone is much 

 stouter than the femur would lead one to expect; the supinator ridge 

 is very prominent and runs far up the shaft. 



The radius is distinctly feline in character. The proximal end is 

 formed by a small disc-like head with a concave facet for the 

 capitellum of the humerus ; the concavity is not quite so deep and its 

 margin not so even as in the cats, being notched in the middle of the 

 front edge, which edge is thus given a sigmoid curve. The head 

 does not project inwardly beyond the line of the shaft, as is so 

 markedly the case in the lion. The articular surface for the ulna 

 forms a narrow band which extends around two-thirds of the cir- 

 cumference of the head, considerably more than in the lion and 

 indicating very complete powers of pronation and supination. 

 Distal to the head the shaft gradually contracts and becomes 

 irregularly oval in section. The lower part of the shaft is quite 

 broad, thickened on the outer side and tapering to a thin edge on 

 the inner ; the distal end is somewhat rugose and narrower than 

 the lower part of the shaft, the rugosities are much less prominent 

 than in the recent forms. The facet for the scapho-lunar is broad 

 towards the ulnar side and slightly concave in both directions, but 

 suddenly becomes much narrower internally. There is a small 

 facet on the external side for the distal end of the ulna. 



It is interesting to note that the distal end of the radius in the 

 Bridger creodont, Miacis bathygnathus, is very similar to that of 

 Dinietis, but the carpal surface is somewhat differently shaped, and 

 the styloid process less prominent. 




222 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



The pelvis is rather more viverrine than feline in 

 character, though with some points of resemblance 

 to that of the t Cynoclictis (Galecynus) geismarianus 

 of Cope (No. 2, PL lxxa, fig. 10). The anterior 

 end of the ilium is broken away, so that its length 

 cannot be determined, but judging from the position 

 of the sacral facet, it would seem to be somewhat 

 shorter than the ischium. The neck is short, deep 

 and thick and the anterior expansion does not greatly 

 exceed the neck in breadth. The gluteal surface is 

 not simply concave, as in Fells, but is divided by a 

 sharp ridge into upper and lower concavities, of 

 which the upper is the broader ; this ridge also oc- 

 curs in the f Cynoclictis above mentioned and is 

 faintly marked in Viverra. The acetabular border f J)^ a 2 ' lef f ""'[". 

 is short, but broad, rugose and prominent, and «">minatum. 

 beneath it is a small anteroinferior tuberosity or spine, giving to this 

 region a decided similarity to the pelvis of Cryptoprocta. Mivart 

 says with regard to the pelvis of the viverrines: "There maybe 

 two prominences (each like an ilio-pectineal prominence)- — one just 

 preaxiad to the acetabulum, and the other placed a little more 

 ventrally on the pelvic brim. These may both be found (at least 

 sometimes) in Cryptoprocta, Viverra, Crossarchus and especially in 

 Suricata." (No. 13, p. 473.) Very much the same statement will 

 apply to Dinictis. 



The ischium is long, straight, slender and of trihedral section ; 

 the posterior portion is hardly at all everted, a striking difference 

 from the condition seen in both Felis and Canis ; the tuberosity is a 

 mere thickening of the border and not at all projecting. The 

 spine is represented by a slight convexity of the superior border, 

 which ends abruptly behind, forming thus the lesser sacro-ischiadic 

 notch. This notch is placed somewhat further behind the acetabu- 

 lum than in f Cynoclictis and occupies about the same position as in 

 Cryptoprocta. The portion of the ischium which descends to form 

 the symphysis is broken away, but was obviously slender and much 

 compressed ; the same may be said of the pubis. 



The femur is long and slender and resembles that of many of the 

 more primitive carnivores, such as Amphicyon, Cynoclictis, Crypto- 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



J. 16 



proeta, Proailurus, etc. The head, as in Oryptoproeta is presented 

 more obliquely inwards and upwards than in the eats; it is very 

 sharply constricted off from the neck and is evenly rounded, form- 

 ing something more than a hemisphere, and shows a distinct pit for 

 the round ligament. The great trochanter is massive and much ex- 

 tended from before backwards, but rising only slightly above the 

 level of the head, and its upper edge is more regularly rounded 

 than in the cats; the digital fossa is deep but of limited extent. 

 The ridge connecting the head with the great trochanter is. as in 

 Proa 1/ urns, mure compressed than in Oryptoproeta. The second 

 trochanter is quite prominent ; a short curved rugose line runs 

 from this point towards the lower end of the great trochanter. Of 

 especial interest is the presence of a well developed third trochanter, 

 which runs some distance down the shaft and is continued as an ex- 

 ternal linea aspera. The third trochanter appears to be universally 

 present in the creodonts, it is also found in Amphicyon (Filhol, No. 

 4a, PI. xiv, fig. 4, PI. xv, fig. 5), Cynodictis (Schlosser, No. 14, 

 p. 265), Proailurus (Filhol, No. 4, PI. 5, fig. 3), and the figure given 

 by Milne-Edwards and Grandidier (No. 11, PI. 9, fig. 7) would seem 

 to indicate its presence in Cryptoprocta, though the specimens 

 which I have had the opportunity of examining did not possess it. 

 It is further faintly indicated in certain of the Proeyonidce and 

 Viverridce, but no living carnivore exhibits it in any such degree of 

 development, as is seen in Dinietis. In the latter the shaft is rather 

 long and slender and quite strongly arched forward ; the posterior 

 surface is flattened, the anterior regularly curved from side to side. 

 The lower portion of the shaft expands gradually to the condyles ; 

 the popliteal region is nearly smooth, showing no such rugosities for 

 muscular attachment as occur in the larger cats ; it is even less ru- 

 gose than in Cryptoprocta. The condyles are of nearly equal size 

 and are quite widely separated ; above and to the side of each one 

 i< a small articular facet, apparently for sesamoid ossicles. The 

 rotular trochlea is broad, shallow and symmetrical, giving to this re- 

 gion of the bone a very feline appearance. 



The femur of Nimravus is quite different from that of Dinietis; 

 the shaft is more slender and more decidedly curved ; the condyles 

 project more strongly backward, due, no doubt, to the digitigrade 

 gait of this animal, while Dinietis was plantigrade, and the condyles 




224 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



are less equal in size ; the trochlea 

 is longer and more curved and the 

 t j& pits for the attachment of the cru- 

 V'V|p/w c ' a ^ lig aments much more marked. 

 The patella of Dinictis is broad 

 but quite thin from before back- 

 wards ; its upper margin is ab- 

 ruptly rounded and the lower end 

 pointed, giving it the shape of a 

 flattened almond. The articular 

 surface is somewhat concave from 

 above downwards and even more 

 slightly convex from side to side. 

 The anterior surface and the sides 

 are but little roughened, or rather 

 faintly striate. 



The tibia is considerably shorter 

 than the femur ; if we designate 

 the length of the latter as 10, that 

 of the tibia would be 8'4. In 

 Proailurus lemanensis the length 

 of the tibia on the same scale is 

 9*3, in Cryptoprocta 8*6, in Para- 

 doxurus 10*4, in Cynogale 9*1, in Viverra civetta 9 - 2 ; it thus ap- 

 pears that in Dinictis the disproportion is unusually great. Seen 

 from in front the tibia in this genus appears to be straight, as in 

 Cryptoprocta and Proailurus, not having the lateral curvature which 

 occurs in many viverrines, seen from the side, however, the tibia is 

 strongly arched forward. The proximal end differs in some not un- 

 important respects from that of both Cryptoprocta and Proailurus ; 

 the condyles are more flattened and are almost in contact, instead of 

 being separated by a considerable interval ; the spine is very low ; the 

 cnemial crest is somewhat less prominent and does not descend so far 

 upon the shaft; the posterior portion of the condyles is also less de- 

 flected than in Cryptoprocta. On the postero-external angle of the 

 outer condyle there is a large, flat oval facet for the head of the 

 fibula. In Archozlurus the upper portion of the tibia is very similar 

 to that of Dinictis, but the cnemial crest is more massive and the shaft 

 deeper from before backwards, while the spine is higher. In Dinictis, 

 as in Archozlurus, there is a deep concavity in the posterior side, just 



Fig. 3. Dinictis fclina ; A, left femur; 

 B, left tibia and fibula ; C, left patella. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



below the bead. The upper two-thirds of the shaft is trihedral, the 

 lower portion is compressed and oval in section. The distal end is quite 

 peculiar; it is less expanded transversely than in Cryptoproeta ; the 

 internal malleolus is long and very heavy and projects somewhat in- 

 ward as well as downward, and the lower end is abruptly truncate. 

 The sulcus for the tibial tendons is double, as in the felines, and the 

 bounding ridges are continued to the end of the malleolus. The 

 astragalar surface is much flattened and the intercondylar ridge is 

 hardly indicated, being formed merely by the angle at which the two 

 facets meet. This region of the tibia is strikingly different from the 

 corresponding part in Proailurus (see Filhol, No. 4, PL 5, fig. 6) in 

 which the groove for the astragalus is much more complete. On the 

 other hand, it is very similar to the distal end of the tibia in 

 Archcelurus (Cope, No. 2, PI. lxxia, fig. 15a). 



The fibula is comparatively well developed and very cat-like ; the 

 proximal end is considerably expanded from before backwards and 

 at the same time thickened ; it bears a large, oval and obliquely 

 placed facet for the head of the tibia. The shape of this part of the 

 bone is much like that seen in many viverrines. The shaft, thouerh 

 slender, is quite as strong proportionately as in the existing cats and 

 civets, and is of an irregular trihedral shape, with a sharp crista 

 iuterossea. The distal end is more expanded in both directions than 

 the proximal and in shape resembles that of the cats ; on its posterior 

 border is a deep tendinal sulcus, and on the inner side is a large facet 

 for the external face of the astragalus. The fibula is in contact with 

 the tibia only at the proximal and distal ends, the shafts of the two 

 bones being quite widely separated throughout their entire length. 



The Pes. 



The hind-foot is relatively long and slender and has many points 

 of resemblance to that of Cryptoproeta, as well as important differ- 

 ences from that animal. The calcaneum is very like that of Proai- 

 lurus and has considerable resemblance to the calcaneum of Procyon. 

 The tuber is short and stout, with a moderately expanded free end, 

 which is grooved by a tendinal sulcus ; the posterior astragalar facet 

 is large, regularly arched from before backwards and presenting de- 

 cidedly more internally than superiorly, in this respect resembling 

 Proailurus rather than Procyon. The sustentaculum is heavy and 

 prominent and the articular facet is reflected over upon the posterior 

 side ; the cuboidal facet is oval and concave, and slopes from within 

 outwards and downwards. The outer side of the distal end of the cal- 

 16 




226 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



caneum shows a prominent process, which is as strongly developed 

 in Proailurus and Procyon, and to a less degree in Cryptoprocta 



and Amphicyon. This process is most con- 

 spicuous in the plantigrade forms, though 

 it is also present in such forms as the tiger. 

 The astragalus of Dinictis is remarkable 

 for its flatness, the intercondylar groove 

 being hardly more than indicated ; the outer 

 condyle is much broader and somewhat 

 higher than the inner and forms nearly a 

 right angle with the very large and slightly 

 concave external fibular surface ; at its pos- 

 terior (or superior) end the trochlea becomes 

 exceedingly narrow and somewhat more 

 deeply grooved ; anteriorly it ends abruptly 

 and is not continued down over the neck, 

 as is the case in Archcelurus and the tiger. 

 The internal face of the astragalus is placed 

 very obliquely and passes into the inner 

 condyle by a gentle curve, quite different 

 from the sharp ridge found in most recent 

 carnivores, but very similar to the shape in 

 Archcelurus. The neck is very short and 

 much less strongly deflected towards the tibial 

 side than is usual in recent forms; the distal 

 end is formed by the large convex head for 

 the navicular, but upon the outer side there is a small, though distinct 

 facet for the cuboid, a connection which rarely occurs in the recent 

 carnivora, the bears and certain mustelines having it, however. Cope's 

 figure of the astragalus of Archcelurus (No. 2, PI. lxxia, fig. 1Gb) 

 seems to indicate its occurrence in that genus, and in all probability it 

 will also be found in the White River species of Cijnodictis, though in 

 the G. geismarianus from the John Day horizon (Cope, No. 2, PI. 

 lxxa, fig. 9) it is not apparent. The facet for the sustentaculum 

 is long and rather narrow, convex in front and concave behind, as it 

 embraces the hinder edge of the sustentaculum ; the external cal- 

 caneal facet is deeply concave from before backwards, and has an un- 

 usually oblique position in accordance with that of the corresponding 

 surface on the calcaneum. The resemblance in the structure of the 

 astragalus between Dinictis and Archcelurus have been mentioned. 



Fig. 4- 

 hind foot 



Dinictis ft Una ; left 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



227 



but there are important differences, chief among which are that in the 

 latter genus the inner condyle is 

 continued almost to the navicular 

 facet ; the external side is curved 

 outwardly very much more strongly 

 and the facet for the sustentaculum 

 is much smaller and further re- 

 moved from the head. 



The navicular is rather unusually 

 broad and of very simple construc- 

 tion ; the proximal surface is taken 

 up entirely by the deeply concave 

 astragalar facet; on the external 

 side there is a single narrow facet 

 for the cuboid, and the distal side 

 shows three facets for the cuneiforms, 

 that for the ectocuneiform beino- 

 much the largest, that for the en to- 

 cuneiform is very obliquely placed, 

 causing a great reduction of the 

 height of the navicular upon the 

 inner side. 



The cuboid is a stout bone with 

 large diameters in all three direc- 

 tions; the proximal surface, forming the facet for the calcaneum, is 

 somewhat convex and slopes downwards and outwards from the inter- 

 nal side ; internally to the calcaneal surface is a narrow and obliquely 

 placed facet for the astragalus. The internal face of the cuboid shows 

 a -ingle small and nearly flat facet for the ectocuneiform. On the 

 distal end there is a very large and slightly concave surface for the 

 fourth metatarsal, and external to this very much narrower facet for 

 the fifth metatarsal, which has an oblique position presenting out- 

 wards as well as downwards. The sulcus for the peroneal tendons 

 upon the external side of the cuboid is very distinctly marked, 

 though nut nearly so deep as in Procyon. 



The ectocuneiform is large, very broad on the dorsal side, espe- 

 cially distally and rapidly becoming narrower towards the plantar 

 side, where from the proximal end is given off a stout knob-shaped 

 process ; on the internal side is a pair of small facets for the second 

 metatarsal. The mesocuneiform resembles that of Paradox ur us in 



Fig. 5. A dorsal view of left calcaneum ; 

 Ai, plantar view of left astragalus of Din- 

 ictisfelina. In Ai, cb. marks the facet for 

 the cuboid. B, left calcaneum of Proaii- 

 urus ; C, of Cryptoprocta. B and C, 

 after Filhol. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



shape, having a very oblique facet for the navicular; the tibial side 

 of the bone is much higher than the fibular and consequently the 

 proximal edge slopes strongly downward and outward. 



The entocuneiform is high and narrow, though of considerable 

 depth ; the proximal end rises sharply toward 

 the plantar side, so that this diameter much 

 x j exceeds that on the dorsal side. The facet 

 3^'S^vA / )) f° r Mt. I is narrow and concave from before 

 backwards. The entocuneiform descends con- 

 siderably below the level of the mesocuneiform 

 v , „..,.,.. and abuts against the side of the second meta- 



Fig 6. Dinictis felziia ; ~ 



proximal endsof metatarsals, tai'Sal. 

 facets for the tarsals repre- 

 sented by c,' c," c,'" cb. A^ compared with those of most of the ex- 

 isting Felidce, the metatarsals of Dinictis are weak and slender and 

 have a viverrine appearance. Only the proximal end of Mt. I is 

 preserved and so its length cannot be determined, but the diameter 

 of the shaft is relatively less reduced than in Cryptoprocta, and ap- 

 parently the hallux bore about the same proportion to the other 

 digits as in Paradoxurus. The head is convex from before back- 

 wards, concave from side to side, extending upwards and inwards, 

 with a prominent rugose surface on the tibial side. Metatarsal II is 

 rather short and quite slender ; the head is wedge-shaped, becoming 

 very narrow on the plantar side ; the shaft is obscurely trihedral, 

 flattened on the tibial and rounded on the other sides. Owing to the 

 shortness of the mesocuneiform. Mt. II rises above the level of both 

 I and III and is thus wedged in between the ecto- and entocu- 

 neiforms, an arrangement which is nearly universal among the fissi- 

 pede carnivores. On the fibular side there is a slight depression for 

 Mt. Ill, but this digit is not interlocked with its neighbors so 

 firmly as the three external ones. 



The third metatarsal is decidedly the heaviest, though not the 

 longest of the series, and the proximal portion is especially broad ; 

 on the fibular side of this end is a very deep depression, into which 

 fits a corresponding projection from Mt. IV. The facet for the 

 ectocuneiform is very obliquely placed with reference to the long 

 axis, rising strongly towards the fibular side, and has the or- 

 dinary feline arrangement, the two facets for Mt, IV being separated 

 by a deep emargination, and the plantar side of the proximal end 

 very much constricted. The shaft is very nearly straight. This 

 bone articulates only with the ectocuneiform, being excluded from 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



both the cuboid and the mesocuneiform, as both II and IV rise 



above it. 



The fourth metatarsal is somewhat longer than No. Ill and decid- 

 edly more slender, though heavier than any of the others ; it has a 

 narrow convex head for the cuboid and is closely interlocked with 

 III and V ; on the tibial side is a prominence which fits into 

 the pit on No. Ill and on the fibular side is a pit for the projection 

 from No. V. The three outer digits are thus firmly interlocked by 

 means of the metatarsals, No. II is less closely connected, but is 

 securely held in place by being wedged between the ecto- and ento- 

 cuneiforms. The shaft of Mt. IV is curved so that the distal end is 

 deflected outwards, and is slightly twisted upon itself; seen from the 

 dorsal side it seems to be attached only to the cuboid, but posteriorly 

 has a small facet for the side of the ectocuneiform. 



The fifth metatarsal is a little more s4ender than No. II and of 

 about the same length, though it descends lower, owing to the lower 

 level of its attachment to the cuboid as compared with that between 

 the mesocuneiform and Mt. II ; the cuboidal facet is very narrow and 

 ion vex from before backwards, and above it rises the large, thick- 

 ened and rugose external process; the shaft is curved both forward 

 and inward, like that of No. IV. The distal ends of all the meta- 

 tarsals show rounded hemispherical heads for the phalanges which 

 are sharply constricted off from the shafts, and on the plantar side 

 arc sharp and prominent keels; just above these articular heads the 

 shafts are expanded and have rugose processes for ligamentous 

 attachment. 



The metatarsals of Dinictis are not unlike those of Cynodidis, to 

 the viverrine character of which Schlosser has called attention (No. 

 14, Taf. vi, fi r. 18, 29), but in the former Mt. Ill is proportionately 

 heaver and its proximal end overlaps No. IV more extensively, 

 and the cuboidal facet of Mt. V is smaller. In ^Elurogale (Schlosser, 

 loc. cit. figs. 15 and 23) the metatarsals are very much heavier than 

 in Dinictis; the head of Mt. II is less distinctly wedge-shaped, the 

 head of No. IV is broader and shows an excavation on the tibal side 



which is not seen in Dinictis, while the pro- 

 jection from the head of Mt. V is much longer 

 and more compressed. The shape of the fifth 

 metatarsal is decidedly more feline in Dinic- 

 tis than in jElurogale ; the shafts in the latter 



Fig. 7 Dinictis felina ; , . . 



median and ungual phalanges geUUS are also milch Straightei' tliail 111 the 



of IV digit seen from the fibu- 



larside. former. 1 he metatarsals of Jrroailarus seem 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



to be considerably longer and more slender tban those of Dinictis 

 (Filhol No. 4, PI. 4, figs. 1 and 5). 



The phalanges of Dinictis are in general very much like those of 

 Cryptoproeta but are proportionately stouter. Those of the prox- 

 imal row are quite long, broad and strongly arched towards the 

 dorsal side of the foot. Those of the second row are flatter and quite 

 deeply excavated upon the fibular side of the distal end, in order to 

 allow the retraction of the claws. This excavation is much more 

 marked than in Cryptoproeta or in any of the Viverridce which I have 

 been able to examine. According to Mivart (No. 12, p. 157) the 

 claws of Prionodon are almost as completely retractile as in the. cats, 

 as certainly seems to have been the case in Dinictis. The ungual 

 phalanges are less strongly arched than in Cryptoproeta ; they are 

 short, very much compressed and not far from straight. In shape 

 they are quite like the unguals of Paradoxums, but the articular 

 surface is of a different shape and the backwardly projecting pro- 

 cess beneath this surface is much better developed, though not to 

 the same degree as in the true cats. There is no trace of the bony 

 lamina or hood which in the last-mentioned family is reflected over 

 the base of the horny claw. This hood occurs in Hoplophoneus and 

 probably also in the later Nimravidce from the John Day, though we 

 may infer that in this respect Archcelurus agrees with Dinictis. 



It will be seen from the foregoing description that the hind-leg 

 and foot of Dinictis presents a very curious assemblage of charac- 

 ters. In some respects these characters are very primitive, as for 

 example the large third trochanter on the femur, the greatly flat- 

 tened ankle-joint, the articulation of the astragalus with the cuboid 

 and the shape of the calcaneum. Indeed, I was at first misled into 

 the belief that this specimen belonged to a creodont and accord- 

 ingly referred it to Hycenodon (quoted in Cope, No. 3, p. 344) until 

 material subsequently brought to light showed its true nature. Such 

 a creodont-like tarsus associated with the highly differentiated denti- 

 tion of Dinictis is certainly very remarkable. In general, the speci- 

 men' before us has much resemblance to the corresponding parts of 

 Cryptoproeta and other viverrines, as well as to Cynodictis, but at 

 the same time there are points of approximation to the felines, of 

 which the most important is perhaps the degree of retractility 

 shown in the ungual phalanges, which seems to be equalled among 

 the Viverridce only by Prionodon. 




1889.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 231 



Measurements. 



M. 



Femur, length, -190 



Femur, breadth, proximal end (head and great trochanter), '038 



Femur, breadth, distal end (greatest width of condyles), "034 



Tibia, length (including malleolus), "168 



Tibia, breadth, proximal end, - 034 



Tibia, breadth, distal end, -020 



Calcaneum, length, "043 



Astragalus, length, . '027 



Metatarsal I, breadth, proximal end, "006 



Metatarsal II, length, "046 



Metatarsal II, breadth, proximal end, '006 



Metatarsal III, length (?), -051 



Metatarsal III, breadth, proximal end, . - 012 



Metatarsal IV, length, -053 



Metatarsal IV, breadth, proximal end, "006 



Metatarsal V, length, '0485 



Metatarsal V, breadth, proximal end, - 008 



First phalanx, fourth digit, length, "022 



Second phalanx, fourth digit, length, "017 



Third phalanx, fourth digit, length, "015 



The Systematic Position of Dinictis. 



Before any systematic arrangement of the Carnivora can be ac- 

 cepted as final, it will be necessary to show the steps by which the 

 various groups have diverged from the common stock. We are as 

 yet by no means in a position to do this, and hence any classifica- 

 tion of them at present can only be tentative. However, recent in- 

 vestigations throw some light upon the problem. It is obvious, in 

 the first place, that the retention of primitive characters in any two 

 groups of a series is no proof of any relationship nearer than that 

 through the common ancestor of the entire series. Thus the presence 

 of the alisphenoid canal, or the epicondylar foramen, cannot be em- 

 ployed as an indication of direct connection between two groups 

 otherwise differing. Secondly, the loss of characters present in the 

 ancestral form is no better indication of affinity, since we have 

 abundant evidence that these suppressions take place independently. 

 Examples of this are the reduction in the number of the teeth and 

 digits, loss of the alisphenoid canal, the loss of the septum in the 

 auditory bulla in the hyenas and mustelines, which no one supposes 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



to be closely related. Although characters which belong to these 

 two categories are by no means valueless, those which are derived 

 from differentiations of a similar kind are much more important ; 

 that is to say, positive characters are of more value than negative 

 ones. With these principles before us, we may proceed to the con- 

 sideration of the question. 



The arrangement of the fissipede Carnivora into Arctoidea, 

 Cynoidea, and Aeluroidea proposed by Flower (No. 5), founded 

 chiefly upon the characters of the basis cranii, has been very gen- 

 erally accepted among English speaking zoologists, but as Schlosser 

 (No. 14) remarks, it receives little support from paleontology, 

 as in the various early fossil forms the characteristics are mingled in 

 a very confusing way, and in a way not intelligible if Flower's 

 arrangement be accepted. Schlosser regards the dogs and bears as 

 being very closely related, while the mustelines, civets and hyenas 

 are placed together as another series. The Procyonidce (Subursidce) 

 "endlich stellen einen Formenkreis dar, der sich von den primitivsten 

 Typen der Carnivoren, ausser im Zahnbau, fast gar nicht entfernt 

 hat" (No. 14, p. 237). The cats, on the other hand, Schlosser 

 believes to be widely separated from all others groups of Carnivora 

 and to have been independently derived from creodonts, though 

 admitting that as yet we know nothing of their history. 



In most respects I regard these views as justified by paleontologi- 

 cal evidence. Thus Gaudry (No. 6, ch. IX) and Lydekker (No. 9, 

 j). 202 ; No. 10, p. 106) have satisfactorily shown the derivation of 

 the bears from Amphicyon through Dinocyon and Hycenardos. The 

 connection between the viverrines and mustelines, though not so 

 clear, is at all events very probable, as is shown by such forms as 

 Stenopleskiis. Through the kindness of M. Filhol, I had an oppor- 

 tunity of examining a fine skull of S. cayluxi in his collection and 

 found that it exhibited a remarkable combination of viverrine and 

 musteline characters. The skull is like that of the civets in shape; 

 the auditory bulla is divided by a septum and the separation into two 

 chambers is plainly indicated by an external constriction; the bulla 

 is in contact with the paroccipital process, though the latter is small 

 and does not enclose the former as in a capsule, a striking difference 

 from the viverrines. The condylar foramen is entir ly free from the 

 foramen lacerum posterius and ] erforates a ridge passing from the 

 paroccipital process to the condyle. The alisphenoid canal, if 

 present at all, is very minute, but the glenoid foramen is large and 




1881).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



conspicuous. The combined viverrine and musteline features in the 

 dentition of this and other genera have been fully described by 

 Schlosser, and such forms certainly seem to indicate a close con- 

 nection between the two families, while the relationship between the 

 civets and hyenas is very generally admitted and need not be dwelt 

 upon here. 



Schlosser's scheme (No. 14, p. 238) does not indicate any near 

 connection between the dogs and viverrines, which however, seems to 

 be equally clear. The skull of the White River species, f Cynodic- 

 tis gracilis, is interesting in this connection. In general character the 

 skull is distinctly cynoid, but the long, narrow and sharply constric- 

 ted cranium, the short, pointed face, and the slender mandible are 

 very suggestive of the Viverridce. The auditory bulla is marked by 

 an external constriction as in most of the latter family, though I 

 could not determine certainly the existence of a septum ; the bulla is 

 not in contact at all with the paroccipital. The condylar foramen 

 is much nearer to the foramen lacerum posterius than in Canis and 

 occupies the same position as in Viverra antiqua from St. Gerand-le- 

 Puv. The carotid canal is not enclosed in the foramen lacerum 

 posterius. The upper true molars are more viverrine than canine in 

 construction. The skeleton of this species is unfortunately not 

 known at present, but Cope has called attention to the exceedingly 

 viverrine character of the skeleton of the John Day species, C. 

 (Galeeynus) geismarianus. Schlosser likewise points out many 

 viverrine features in the structure of the European Cynodictis, and 

 it seems clear that, while Cynodictis should most probably be placed 

 in the cynoid series, it stands very near to the point of division where 

 the Canidce and the Viverridce. diverged. 



All of the carnivorous groups mentioned thus seem to come to a 

 common point of origin and their early representatives agree quite 

 closely in the characters of the skull and dentition. This primitive 

 carnivorous skull may be thus described. The cranium is much 

 elongated and very narrow; the elongation affecting chiefly the 

 posterior part and the region between the orbits and the post-orbital 

 constriction ; the parietal zone is very long and excludes the frontals 

 from contact with the cerebral hemispheres and there is a very long 

 and single sagittal crest ; the face is comparatively short and the 

 orbit is placed far forward; the mandible is slender and tapers 

 rapidly forward, and the teeth are relatively small. As to the base 

 of the cranium, this exhibits a combination of characters which are 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



now found separately in the various groups of carnivores, though 

 among the recent families the nearest approach to the primitive 

 condition is found in the dogs. The auditory bulla is almost cer- 

 tainly divided by a septum, as is still to some degree the case in 

 Canis, where the mode of development of the bulla is very like that 

 which occurs in the cats ; the alisphenoid canal and the post -glenoid 

 foramen are present ; the foramen lacerum posterius, carotid canal 

 and condylar foramen are all distinct from each other ; the mastoid 

 and paroccipital processes are free from the bulla? and are placed 

 far in front of the occipital condyles. It is usually taken for granted 

 that a short face is always a secondary modification, but the history 

 of several groups of mammals shows that this assumption is unten- 

 able in many cases. The primitive forms both of ungulates and 

 carnivores from the Puerco and Wasatch all have short faces, very 

 long and narrow crania, the orbits are placed far forward in the 

 face, and the zygomatic arches are in consequence greatly elongated. 

 The two factors which chiefly determine the modifications of the 

 skull are the teeth and brain, and the principles which Riitimeyer 

 has laid down with reference to the modifications of the ungulate 

 skull apply equally well to the carnivores. In the later forms the 

 orbit is shifted backwards and the zygomatic arches shortened, the 

 parietal zone reduced, the frontal zone extended, the teeth are much 

 enlarged and if their number is unreduced, the face becomes cor- 

 respondingly elongated, as in the dogs, or it may become greatly 

 shortened, accompanying the much reduced dentition, as in the cats. 

 Comparing the dogs of the White River, John Day and Loup Fork 

 epochs, the gradual elongation of the face becomes plain. 



The derivation of the Felicia' offers problems of much greater 

 difficulty than that of the other groups, and as we have already seen, 

 Schlosser altogether rejects the view that they have any connection 

 with the Viverridte, and derives them independently from creodonts. 

 According to Mivart the following characters are common to both 

 families and the hyenas. (No. 12, pp. 137-8). 

 " 1. Bulla greatly dilated, rounded, smooth, thin-walled, with one 



exception, osseous, and almost always divided by a septum 



into two distinct portions. 



2. Bony meatus short or with its inferior wall imperfectly ossified. 



3. Paroccipital process applied to and, as it were, spread over the 



hinder part of the bulla. 



4. Mastoid process never very salient, often obsolete. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



5. Carotid canal small, sometimes very inconspicuous. 



6. Condyloid fissure concealed. 



7. Glenoid fissure extremely minute or absent. 



8. Bone of penis generally small and irregularly shaped." 



The same authority (pp. 144-5) gives the following skeletal and 

 dental characters of the Felidce: — 



1. The muzzle is short as compared with the cranium. 



2. The auditory bulla is much inflated, smooth and rounded, but. 



hardly shows any external sign of division. 



3. The bulla is more prominent towards its inner than towards its 



hinder border. 



4. There is an almost complete bony septum between the two 



chambers of the bulla, which are one behind the other. 



5. The bony meatus auditorius is short and neither produced ante- 



riorly nor inferiorly, neither is it imperfectly ossified below. 



6. There is no carotid foramen anywhere visible on the basis cranii. 



7. There is no alisphenoid canal. 



8. The palatine foramina are situated in the hinder half of the 



palate. 



9. The post-orbital processes are more or less strongly developed, 



sometimes enclosing the orbits completely. 



10. The paroccipital process projects only slightly as a rough tuber- 



cle beyond the bulla. 



11. The mastoid is rather prominent. 



12. The palate is very little or but moderately produced beyond the 



last molars. 



13. The pterygoid fossa is very small. 



14. Angle of mandible not greatly flattened beneath, and coronoid 



process high and inclined backwards. 



15. There is a short pollex with a claw not, or hardly, reaching to 



distal end of metacarpal II. 



16. The hallux is represented only by a rudimentary metatarsal 



bone. 



17. The ungual phalanges are greatly arched with a wide lamina to 



shelter the base of the claw, and except in Cyncelurus complete- 

 ly retractile. 



18. Humerus with an epicondylar foramen. 



19. Dorsal vertebrae 13 in number. 



20. Bone of penis small. 



21. v _l and J~ L not developed. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



22. There is no lower tubercular molar, no. ^i! and no. ;^T 



23. ^i is always very small and transversely extended. 



24. The antero-exterual cusp of p - 4 - is fairly developed, but much 



smaller than the two others. 



25. 5^77 has hardly any talon. 



26. Proportionate length of limbs considerable. 



To these characters should be added the following: 



27. The postero-internal cusp of ^77 has disappeared. 



28. The lower incisors form a straight row, the second one not being 



pushed backward out of line. 



29. The front of the jaw is not tapered and the chin is abruptly 



rounded. 



30. The metacarpals are very clflsely interlocked. 



31. There are considerable remnants of the clavicles. 



The Viverridce are distinguished by the following characters,, 

 including Cryptoproeta in that family (Mivart. pp. 196-8): — 



1 . The auditory bulla (except in Nandinia) is ossified, much inflated 



and shows externally that it consists of two chambers, which 

 may or may not be one" behind the other. 



2. The bony meatus auditorius is almost always short, and may have 



its anterior, posterior, or inferior margin most projecting ; and 

 it may be imperfectly ossified below. 



3. The bulla is not more prominent towards its inner than towards 



its hinder border. 



4. There are one or two carotid foramina on each side of the basis 



cranii. 



5. There is an alisphenoid canal (except often in Viverricula). 



6. The palatine foramina are situated in the anterior half of the 



palate. 



7. The muzzle is large in proportion to the cranium. 



8. The post-orbital processes are generally developed but rarely 



enclose the orbit. 



9. Paroccipital process depending or not. 



10. Mastoid prominent or not. 



11. Palate not much, moderately, or much prolonged behind the 



molars. 



12. Pterygoid fossa present or absent. 



13. The coronoid process of the mandible is almost, if not quite 



always, less lofty relatively, and less backwardly produced 

 than in the Felhhe. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



14. There may or may not be a pollex ; but in the large majority 



of species there is one. 



15. There may or may not be a hallux ; but in the large majority 



of species there is one. 



16. The ungual phalanges may or may not be strongly arched, hut 



there is not so wide a lamina of bone to shelter the base of 

 the claw as in the Felidon.. They are hardly ever (except 

 perhaps in Poiana and Prionodori) completely retractile, and- 

 often not at all so. 



17. The humerus may be without epicondylar foramen. 



18. The dorsal vertebra? never number more than fourteen. 



19. The bone of the penis is small (except in Cryptoproda). 



20. LI is generally and ^ constantly developed. 



21. There is always an ^~; and generally an *L1. 



22. M il is always present and generally large. 



23. The antero-external cusp of Li is generally very small. 



24. ~^\ has almost always a considerable talon. 



2.3. The limbs are short in proportion to the body. 

 To these Ave may add : — 



26. Except in Cryptoproda, the lower sectorial has a well developed 



postero-internal cusp. 



27. The second lower incisor is pushed backwards out of the line 



of the others. 



28. The mandibular rami are tapering. 



29. The metacarpals are less complexly interlocked than in the 



cats. 

 :H>. There are no clavicles. 



On comparing the description already given of Dinictis with the 

 characteristic features of the cats and viverrines here set forth, it 

 appears that, so far as the base of tfie cranium is concerned, these 

 two groups agree together much more nearly than Dinidis does with 

 either of them, the latter corresponding rather to the cynoids and 

 very closely approximating the condition stated above as character- 

 istic of the primitive stock of the Carnivora. In other respects the 

 skull of Dinidis may fairly be said to be intermediate between the 

 cats and viverrines in structure, but the shape of the mandible is 

 peculiarly feline. The dentition exhibits the same intermediate 

 characters, and though it approximates that of the cats in several 

 important respects, it is distinctly less feline than is the dentition of 

 Cryptoproda. One very characteristic feature of the Felidce is how- 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



ever shown in the dentition of Dinietis, namely, the fact that the 

 crowns of the lower incisors form a continuous row and the second 

 one is not forced out of line. The vertebrae of the genus before us 

 are also rather feline, but with certain resemblances to the civets and 

 especially to Oryptoprocta. The hind-limb has very little about it 

 that reminds one of the cats, the most important resemblance being 

 the degree of retractility shown by the claws, though this is shared 

 by some civets. On the other hand both in its proportions and in its 

 individual members the hind-limb and foot of Dinietis approximates 

 closely the corresponding parts of many of the Viverridce, though 

 with certain features which are more primitive than occur in any 

 living member of that family, for example, the well developed third 

 trochanter of the femur, the very flat ankle joint and the articula- 

 tion of the cuboid with the astragalus. And it further seems clear 

 that thp numerous viverrine characters are not the result of independ- 

 ent development, or " convergence." 



In a former publication (No. 16, p. 153), I referred Dinietis to 

 the Cryptoproctidce ; but since that account was written, I have 

 had an opportunity to study specimens of the Madagascar genus, 

 which have led me to agree with Mivart in referring this genus to 

 the Viverridve, to which Dinietis manifestly does not belong. The 

 Nimravidie, alone remain, and the characters of the base of the 

 skull are so exactly like those of Dinietis, that in spite of differ- 

 ences in the feet, I feel constrained to follow Cope's example and 

 place the White River genus in that family, of which it, probably, 

 together with Archcelurus, will form the more primitive section. 



Comparing the Nimravidce with the Felidce and Vioerridce, we 

 reach the following results : — 



1. The muzzle is short as compared with the cranium. 



2. The auditory bulla is inflated, but (in the genera in which this 



region is known) shows no external sign of division. 



3. The bulla is more prominent towards its inner than towards its 



hinder border. 



4. There is, probably, an almost complete bony septum between the 



chambers. 



5. The bony meatus is not produced nor imperfectly ossified below. 



6. There is a distinct carotid foramen. 



7. There is an alisphenoid canal. 



8. The palatine foramina are situated about midway in the palate. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



9. The post-orbital processes are generally very small, and never 



enclose the orbit behind. 



10. The paroccipital processes project backwards, and do not touch 



the bulla?. 



11. The mastoid is very prominent. 



12. The palate is not at all prolonged behind the molars. 



13. The pterygoid fossa is small. 



14. The coronoid process of the mandible is high and inclined back- 



wards. 



15. There is a short pollex (in Hoplophoneus at least.) 



16. The hallux is well developed. 



17. The ungual phalanges are retractile, and in Hop/ophoneus are 



strongly arched and have wide bony lamina? at their bases. 



18. The humerus has an epicondylar foramen. 

 19 and 20. Unknown. 



21. Li and j~, often developed. 



22. There is often an ^; but no ^i. 



23. ^1 is transversely extended. 



24. The antero-external cusp of L_ 4 is rudimentary or absent. 



2-"). The talon of ^l is much better developed than in the Felidce. 



26. The limbs are relatively short and the feet weak. 



27. The postero-internal cusp of ~ } is often present. 



28. The lower incisors form a straight row ; the second in a line 



with the others. 



29. The front of the jaw is not tapered, and the chin abruptly 



truncate. 

 31. Unknown. 



The Ximraridce differ from both Viverridce and Felidce in the fol- 

 lowing respects : — 



(1.) The paroccipital process is not applied to the bulla. 

 (2.) The mastoid process is quite prominent. 

 (3.) The carotid canal is conspicuous. 

 4. The condylar foramen is not enclosed in the foramen lacerum 



posterius (as is also the case in Viverra antiqua and some of 



the lynxes). 

 •"). Glenoid foramen large. 



6. There is usually a large third trochanter on the femur. 



7. The astragalus in some genera much flattened, and articulates 



with the cuboid. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



These comparisons show that in the Nimrctvidce, and more es- 

 pecially in Dinictis, there is a strange association of both feline 

 and viverrine features, together with others, which are more primi- 

 tive than those which occur in the living representatives of either 

 of these families. In order, therefore, to understand the systematic 

 relations of the extinct family, we must assume either that these 

 animals are not related to the felines at all, but resemble them 

 merely as the result of an independent and parallel development, 

 or that the Felidce and Viverridce are related. In view of the 

 numerous and extraordinary resemblances between the cats and the 

 higher Nimravidce, which no one has ever called in question, the 

 weight of probability is strongly in favor of the second view — 

 namely, that the cats are a highly specialized branch of the primi- 

 tive group which also gave rise to the Viverridce. If we admit the 

 connection between the Nimravidce, and the Felidce, that between 

 the latter and the Viverridce seems necessarily to follow. 



With regard to the White River genera of this family, Schlosser 

 has remarked as follows (No. 15, pp. 589-90) : " Unter den Fleisrli- 

 fressern treffen wir hier zum ersten mal katzenahnliehe Formen, 

 Drepanodon, Dinictix, Buncelurus und Hoplophoneus, doch soil nur 

 das Gebiss und der Schadel mit jenen der Katzen nahere Ueberein- 

 stimmung zeigen, das Skelet jedoch vielmehr an jenes von Hunden 

 erinnern. Hochst wahrscheinlich handelt es sich hier um einen 

 volli£ erloschenen Formen kreis." These statements are due to a 

 misunderstanding of my account. The skeleton of Dinictis and 

 Hoplophoneus is not like that of the dogs, but it does resemble in 

 many important respects, as does also the skull, that of the primi- 

 tive dog-viverrine group, of which Cynodictis may be taken as a 

 tvpical example. So numerous and important are the correspond- 

 ences between the dentition, skull and skeleton of Dinictis, the 

 lower viverrines and the ancestral dogs, that it seems impossible to 

 avoid the conclusion that they are all very closely related. 



Schlosser has not as yet discussed fully his reasons for separating 

 the Felidce so widely from the other Carnivora, and deriving them 

 independently from the creodonts, not having reached that portion 

 of his great work. Some hint of the grounds for his views may be 

 gained from a recent short paper (No. 15, p. 590), where criticising 

 Filhol's opinion that Stenoplesictis, Proailurus, etc., form the transi- 

 tion in mi Cynodictis to the cats, he says: "Dies ist jedoch wenig 

 wahrscheinlich, da cine so weitgehende Umgestaltung unmdglieh 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



sehr rasch erfolgen konnte, d. h. innerhalb des Zeitraums, welcher 

 durch die Fauna der Phosphorite begrenzt erscheint; ausserdem 

 sprechen auch anatomische Griinde gegen diese Annahme. Bei 

 alien diesen Formen ist namlich der zweite untere Schneidezahn 

 wie bei der Gattung Cynodictis und den Hunden, Mardern und 

 Zibethkatzen schon hinter den ersten und dritten geriickt, wahrend 

 die Schneidezahue hei den Katzen mit dem Kronenteil eine Reihe 

 bilden, ferner erscheint der vordere Teil des Unterkiefers nicht 

 abgestutzt wie bei den Katzen, sondern lauft spitz nach vorn zu, 

 und ausserdem sind audi bier die Schliisselbeine ganz wie bei alien 

 Hunden, Mardern und Zibethkatzen verloren gegangen, wahrend 

 die Katzen noch deutliche Rudimente derselben aufzuweisen haben. 

 Da aber die Nachkommen unmoglich in der einen oder andern 

 Beziehung dem ursprunglichen Zustand naher stehen konnen, als 

 ihre Ahnen, so wird die Filhol'sche Ansicht wenig haltbar er- 

 scheinen." 



Though not wishing to defend Filhol's views, it seems to me that 

 the anatomical objections which Schlosser urges against them are 

 of no great weight. It seems quite clear that the slender, tapering, 

 mandibular ramus is the original, primitive one; at least, it is 

 well nigh universal among the creodonts, and it is difficult to see 

 why the form which characterizes the feline lower jaw should not 

 have been derived from the slender ramus. At all events, the 

 hyenas, which Schlosser admits fo be closely connected with the 

 civets, have developed a mandible, which, in its anterior portion, is 

 very like that of the cats, and in this respect Oryptoprocta is just 

 intermediate between Proailurm and Feli* — a slight change further 

 in the same direction would reproduce the mandible of the cats. 



Necessarily correlated with the shape of the mandible is the ar- 

 rangement of the lower incisor series — here, again, it would appear 

 that the FelidcB present, so far as the Carnivora are concerned — not 

 the primary, but a modified condition, for in all of the creodonts 

 in which the condition of the lower incisor series is known to me, 

 the second one is either wanting, or lias been pushed back of the 

 6rst and third, just as in the dogs and civets. In this respect, also. 

 Hyoena agrees with the cats, as do some, at least, of the bears, and 

 it would appear to be a necessary consecpience of the widening of 

 the muzzle in the groups mentioned. 



As regards the presence of clavicles in the cats, it need only be 

 said that nothing is as yet certainly known as to their presence or 



17 




242 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



absence in the early members of the various groups which now do 

 not possess them. 



It may not be fair to assume that these are Schlosser's chief 

 reasons for excluding the Felidce from the seluroids, as they are 

 employed only against the derivation of that family from Proailurus, 

 etc., but apparently they imply as much, especially when read in 

 connection with other passages. Nor do his attempts to explain 

 away the correspondences in the structure of the skull between 

 the cats and the viverrines, appear to me much more successful, 

 though lack of space forbids a discussion of them here. 



No known group of creodonts can be selected as having any close 

 relations to the cats. The Oxycenas, it is true, do exhibit certain 

 surprising analogies with the recent family, but the analogy is con- 

 fined to the teeth, and is only superficial, as the teeth which in the 

 two groups look so much alike, are not homologous, and are de- 

 veloped in quite a different way. The lower sectorials of Protop- 

 salis, for example, are very cat-like, but not so much so as those of 

 Cryptoprocta ; and the feet of the former genus, as well as those of 

 Oxycena itself, and Hycenodon, are curiously specialized in an en- 

 tirely opposite sense from that which characterizes the cats. 



Unless, therefore, we are prepared to regard the resemblances 

 between the Nimravidce and the Felidce as merely analogical, which, 

 to say the least, seems highly improbable, we must admit a connec- 

 tion between the latter family and the viverrines, since the Nimra- 

 vidce clearly show that they are not far removed from the primi- 

 tive series, of which Oynodictis may be taken as a representative. 



The following table will show the modifications in Schlosser's 

 scheme, which seem to me to be necessary. The Procyonidce are 

 omitted, as we have as yet no information upon their history : — 



Ursidce. Canidce. MustelidcB. Viverridce. Hycenidce. Felidce. 



Nimravidce. 



Miacidce 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



List of Papers Referred to. 



1. Bruce, A. T. Observations on the brain-casts of Tertiary Mam- 



mals. Contributions from the Museum of Geology, etc., 

 Princeton. No. 3, pp. 36-46. 



2. Cope, E. D. The Vertebrate of the Tertiary Formations of the 



\Vest ; Report U. S. Geological and Geographical Survey of 

 the Territories, Vol. Ill, Pt. I. Washington, 1884. 



3. . Tbe Creodonta, Part II ; American Naturalist, Vol. 



XVIII, 1884, pp. 344—353. 



4. Filbol, II. Observations sur le genre Proailurus. Separate copy 



from the Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences jdiysiques et 

 naturelles de Toulouse (volume and date not given). 

 4a. Filbol. Etudes des mammiferes fossiles de Saint-Gerand le Puy. 

 Annales des Sciences Geologiques, T. X. 



5. Flower, W. H. On the value of the" characters of the base of 



the cranium in the classification of the order Carnivora, etc. 

 Proceedings Zoological Society of London, 1869, p. 4. 



6. Gaudry, A. Les enchainements du monde animal, Mammiferes 



Tertiaires, Paris, 1878. 



7. Gervais, P. Formes cerebrales des Carnivores. Nouvelles Ar- 



chives du Museum, 1st Ser., T. VI, pp. 103-162. 



8. Leidy, J. The. extinct mammalian fauna of Dakota and Ne- 



braska. Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, Vol. VII, Ser. 2. 



9. Lvdekker, R. Siwalik Carnivora. Palreontologia Indica, Ser. 



10, Vol. II. 



10. . Catalogue of the fossil Mammaliajn the British 



Museum, Part I, London, 1880. 



11. Milne-Edwards and Grandidier. Observations anatomiques 



sur quelques mammiferes de Madagascar. Annales des 

 Sciences Naturelles, 5th Ser., T. VII, Zool., pp. 314-338. 



12. Mivart, St. G. On the classification and distribution of the 



Aeluroidea. Proceedings of the Zoological Society of Lon- 

 don, 1882, pp. 135-208. 



13. . Notes on some points in the anatomy of the 



Aeluroidea. Ibid., pp. 459-520. 



14. Schlosser, M. Die AfFen, Lemuren, etc., des Europaischen 

 Tertiars, Th. II. Beitriige zur Paheontologie Oesterreich- 

 Ungarns, Bd, VII, pp. 225-368. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



15. . Ueber die Beziehungen der ausgestorbenen Siiuge- 



tierfaunen und ihr Verhaltnis zur Saugetierfauna der 

 Gegemvart ; Biologisches Centralblatt, Bd., VIII, pp. 587- 

 600, 609-631. 



16. Scott, W. B., and Osborn, H. F. Preliminary account of the 

 fossil mammals from the White River formation, etc. Bul- 

 letin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard 

 College, Vol. XIII, No. 5, pp. 151-171. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



A REVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF STURGEONS 

 (ACIPENSERIDAE.) 



BY PHILIP H. KIRSCH AND MORTON W. FORDICE. 



In the following paper we have given the synonymy of the 

 Sturgeons or Aeipenseridae found in American waters, an analytic 

 key by which the species may be distinguished, and a list of nominal 

 species with identifications. All the species examined by us belong 

 to the Museum of the University of Indiana. Most of them were 

 collected by Dr. D. S. Jordan, to whom Ave are indebted for aid in 

 various ways. The variations due to age are extremely great in this 

 group, and some of the characters given here as distinctions may 

 prove to be of little value when a larger amount of material is 

 examined. There can, however, be little'doubt of the distinctions of 

 the six species here recognized. We feel also very certain that no 

 other species exist within our limits, and that all of the many nomi- 

 nal species should be referred to these six. This paper must be 

 regarded as provisional only, as helping to clear the way to a better 

 knowledge of the members of the group. 



Characters of the Aeipenseridae. 



The order of Glaniostomi contains among recent fishes but a 

 single family, Aeipenseridae which may be thus characterized: 



Body elongate, subcylindrical, with five rows of bony plates, a 

 median dorsal, and a lateral and ventral on each side. Each plate 

 has a median carina which terminates in a more or less developed 

 spine, which becomes blunt with age, while the ventral plates are 

 sometimes deciduous. The skin, between the bony plates is rough 

 with smaller, irregular plates and spicules of varying sizes. Head 

 covered with bony plates connected by sutures; snout produced, 

 depressed, subcylindrical, conical or subspatulate ; mouth small, 

 inferior, round or transverse, protractile, with thickened lips, and 

 toothless; nostrils large, double, in front of the eye, which is small, 

 lateral ; four barbels in a transverse series on the lower side of the 

 snout : maxillary distinct from premaxillary. Gills 4. An acces- 

 sory opercular gill. Pseudobranchire small or obsolete. No bran - 

 eheostegals. Gill-membranes united to the isthmus. Pectoral fins 

 placed low ; dorsal posteriorly ; anal somewhat behind it and 

 similar ; ventrals many rayed, behind the middle of body. Tail 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



heterocercal, the lower caudal lobe developed, the upper lobe covered 

 with rhomboid scales. The vertical fins with fulcra, and all the fin- 

 rays slender and articulated. 



Air-bladder large, simple, attached to the dorsal wall of the 

 abdominal cavity, and in free communication with the esophagus. 

 Stomach without blind sac. Rectum with a spiral valve. Pancreas 

 divided into pyloric appendages. 



Large fishes found in the seas and fresh-waters of northern regions. 

 Most of the species are migratory, inhabiting the same waters as the 

 salmon. About 20 species are known, of which 6 are found in 

 American waters. The species fall into two very natural genera. 



Analysis of Genera of Acipenseridae. 



a. Spiracles obsolete ; snout broad, shovel-shaped, much de- 

 pressed above ; rows of bony shields confluent behind the dorsal, so 

 that the depressed tail is completely mailed ; gill-rakers small, fan- 

 shaped, ending in 3 or 4 points. Scaphirhynchus, 1. 



act. Spiracles present ; snout sub-conic ; rows of bon} r shields no- 

 where confluent ; the tail not depressed or mailed ; gill-rakers 

 lanceolate. Acipenser, 2. 



SCAPHIRHYNCHUS. 



Aeipenser Rafinesque, Ichth. Ohiensis, 80, 1820 (platorhynchus). 



Seaphirhynchus Heckel, Ann. AViener Mus. Naturgesch. I. 71, 

 1835 {rafinesquii). (Not Scaphorhynchus of Prince Maximilian, 

 1838, a genus of birds. ) 



Scaphirhynchops (Gill MSS.) Jordan and Copeland, Bull. Buff. 

 Soc. Nat. Hist. 161, 1876 {platyrhynchus). (Substitute for Seaphi- 

 rhynchus regarded as preoccupied). 



Type : Seaphirhynchus rafinesquii Heckel= Aeipenser platorhynchus 

 Rafinesque. 



Etymology, skdphe, a skiff; rhynchos, snout. 



Analysis of Species of Seaphirhynchus. 



a. Plates between ventrals and anal large, in two rows of three 

 in each row, and one median row of one plate. Space between 

 dorsal and lateral shields of small bony plates in 4 or 5 series. Last 

 dorsal shield of moderate size, less than half length of one before it. 

 Dorsal shields 18 (15-20); lateral shields 46 (41-46); ventral 

 shields 13 (11-13). D. 32; A. 20. Shields sharply keeled and 

 spines well developed. Body elongate, tapering into the slender 

 depressed tail, which extends in the young beyond the caudal as a 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



slender filament. Anal little more than half the length of the dorsal 

 and placed entirely behind it. Color, yellowish-brown above, 

 lighter below. platyehynchus, 1. 



1. Scaphirhynchus platyrhynchus. Shovel-nosed sturgeon : white sturgeon. 



Acipemer platorhynchus Rafinesqne, Ichth. Ohiensis, 80, 1820 

 (Ohio river); Kirtland, " Rept. Zool. Ohio, 196, 1838;" Kirtland, 

 Bost. Jour. Nat, Hist, V. 25, 1841 (Cincinnati) ; Storer, Synop. 

 Fish. N. Amer. 501, 1846 (Ohio river). 



Scaphirhynchus platyrhynchus Baird, " Iconogr. Encycl. II. 238, 

 1850 ; " Girard, IT. S. and Pacif. R. R. Survey, 337, 1858 (Missouri 

 river; Poteau river); Dumeril, Hist. Poiss! II. 269, 1870 (New 

 Orleans ; Wabash river) ; Jordan, Man. Vert. Ed. V. 34, 1888. 



Scaphirhynchops platyrhynchus (Gill MSS.) Jordan andCopeland, 

 Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Hist. 161, 1876 ; Cope and Yarrow, Zool. Lieut. 

 Wheeler's Expl. W. 100th Merid. V. 639, 1876 (Rio Grande); 

 Nelson, Bull. 111. Mus. Nat, Hist. 51, 1876 (Ohio river); Bean, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 114, 1880 (Ohio river; Republican river, 

 Kan. ; Yellowstone river) ; Hobbs, Bull. U. 8. Fish. Com. 125, 1881 

 (Ohio river) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Synop. Fish. N. Amer. 88, 1882 ; 

 Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat, Mus. 318, 1884 (New Orleans); Jordan, 

 Cat, Fish. N. Amer. 13, 1885. 



Acipemer cataphractus Gray, "Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 122, 

 1834;" Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. VIII. 345, 1870 (Ohio; 

 New Orleans). 



Scaphirhynchus rafinesquii Heckel, "Ann. Wiener Mus. Natur- 

 gesch. I. 71, pi. 8, f. 1, 1835 ; " Brutzer, "Dessert. Dorpat. 1860." 



Habitat. — Mississippi valley and southern and western streams. 



Etymology. Platys, flat ; rhynchos, snout. 



This well-known species is found in abundance in all the large 

 rivers of the west and south. Early in May it ascends the streams 

 for the purpose of sprawning. In the Ohio river it is taken in con- 

 siderably large numbers and used for food, though it does not seem 

 to be highly valued. Its habits are much like those of A. rubi- 

 cundus. 



ACIPENSER. 



Acipemer Artedi, Genera Piscium, 68, 1738 ; Linnaeus, Systema 

 Naturae, 237, 1758 (sturio). 



Sturio Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiologia Siciliana, 41 et 58, 1810 

 {sturio). 



Sterlet us Rafinesque, Ichth. Ohiensis, 79, 1820 (serotinus). 



Dinectus Rafinesque, lc. 82 (truncatus). 



Huso Brandt and Ratzeburg, "Medizin. Zool. II. 3, 1833" 

 (huso). 



Sterletus Brandt and Ratzeburg, Medizin. Zool. II. 3, 1833 

 (ruthenus). 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Helops Brandt and Ratzeburg, Medizin. Zool. II. 352, 1883 

 (stellatus). 



Antaaeus Brandt, Bull. Acad. Sc. St. Petersboursr, V. 138-141 et 

 179-185, LSI).-) (xolnjpa). 



Lioniscus Fitzinger and Heckel, Ann. Wien. Mus. 370, tab. XXV. 

 f. 3, et XX VI II. f. 5 et 6, 1836 (glaber). 



Type: Acipenser sturio Linnaeus. 



Etymology. Lat. acipenser, a. sturgeon; from akis, point ; pente, 

 five. 



The species of this genus have been multiplied to more than one 



hundred, those in American waters have in particular been unduly 



increased by Auguste Dumeril, who has described about forty from 



specimens in the museum at Paris. All of these nominal species are 



a burden to systematic science. The changes with age in these fishes 



is considerable, the snout becomes shorter and less acute, the spines 



become blunter, the roughness of the plates is generally diminished, 



and the ventral plates often disappear altogether. The number of 



plates is also subject to considerable variation. 



Analysis oj Specie* of Acipenser. 



a. Plates between ventrals and anal large, in one row, or two 

 rows anteriorly and one median row posteriorly of 1 to 4 plates. 



b. Space between dorsal and lateral shields with stellate plates of 

 rather large or medium size, in 5 to 10 series; last dorsal shield of 

 moderate size, more than half length of one before it. 



c. Shields, stellate plates and bony plates on head roughly 

 striated and ridged, and shield-spines strongly developed, presenting 

 a general rough and angular appearance; stellate plates rather 

 large, in about 5 series, densely interspersed with smaller ones. 

 Dorsal shields 11 (9-11); lateral shields 26 (26-30); ventral 

 shields 8 (7-10). D. 33; A. 22. Snout sharp in the young, becom- 

 ing blunt with age, usually rather shorter than the rest of head. 

 Anal nearly as long as dorsal and placed almost entirely posterior 

 to it. Color olive-green, with an olive stripe on the median line of 

 the belly and one each side above the ventral plates, these stripes 

 ceasing opposite the vent. medirostris, 2. 



cc. Shields feebly striated ; stellate plates rather small, in about 

 10 rows, with numerous smaller ones interspersed. Dorsal shields 

 10 (10-14); lateral shields 29 (27-36); ventral shields 9 (8-11). 

 D. 38 ; A. 27. Snout rather sharp, nearly as long as the rest of the 

 head, becoming comparatively shorter and blunter with age. Anal 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



a little more than half length of dorsal, and placed almost entirely 

 under it. Color, sides, back, olive-brown, belly, whitish, sturio, 3. 



bb. Space between dorsal and lateral shields with minute spicules 

 in very many series. 



d. Last dorsal shield of moderate size, more than half length of 

 one before it. Dorsal shields 15 (11-16) ; lateral shields 38 (30-39) ; 

 ventral shields 10 (9-11). D. 35; A. 27. Shields large, rough, 

 with strongly hooked spines, becoming later comparatively smooth: 

 Ventral shields growing smaller with age, and finally deciduous. 

 Snout slender and long in the young, becoming quite blunt with age, 

 when it is considerably shorter than the head. Anal 1 2 in dorsal 

 and beginning about its middle. Color blackish above, sides paler or 

 reddish with irregularly distributed black spots. rubicundus, 4. 



'/'/. Last dorsal shield very small, less than half length of one 

 before it. Dorsal shields 11 (8-11) ; lateral shields 32 (22-33) ; 

 ventral shields 9 (6-9) ; D. 41 ; A. 22. Shields large and flat ; their 

 spines not well developed. Snout short and blunt, about one-fourth 

 length of head. Anal 2 in dorsal and placed entirely under it. Color 

 blackish above, whitish below. brevirostrum, 5. 



aa. Plates between ventrals and anal small, in two rows of 4 to 

 8 in a row ; space between dorsal and lateral shields with stellate 

 plates of moderate size in about 5 series interspersed with many 

 smaller ones ; last dorsal shield less than half length of one before 

 it. Dorsal shields 11-12 ; lateral shields 40-50 ; ventral shields 10- 

 12. D. 44-49 ; A. 28-30. Dorsal shields large and flat : shield- 

 spines but moderately developed ; snout sharp in the young, becom- 

 ing rather blunt and short in the adult, when it is considerably 

 shorter than the rest of the head. Base of anal fin 2 in dorsal and 

 placed wholly under it. Color dark grayish, scarcely olive-tinged, 

 and without stripes. transmontanus, 6. 



2. Acipenser medirostris. Green Sturgeon. 



An/a nsrr medirostris Ayres, Proc. Cal. Acad. Xat. Sci. 15, 1854 

 (San Francisco); Girard, Pacif. R. R. Survey, 356, 1859 (San 

 Francisco) ; Duineril, "Xouv. Arch. Mas. III. 167, pi. 13, f. 2, 1867 ; " 

 Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 222, 1870 (San Francisco) ; Giinther, Cat. 

 Fish. Brit. Mus. VIII. 342, 1870 (California) ; Jordan and Jouv, 

 Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus. li\, 1881 (San Francisco); Jordan and 

 Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus. 36, 1881 (Sacramento, Columbia and 

 Frazer's rivers) ; Bean. Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus. 160, 1881 (copied); 

 Jordan and Gilbert, Svnop. Fish. X. Amer. 86, 1882; Jordan, Cat. 

 Fish. X. Amer. 13, 1885. 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889- 



Antaceus medirostris Gill, Proc. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci. 331, 1862 

 (name only). 



Aeipenser agassizii Dumeril, " Nouv. Arch. Mus. III. 181, pi. 11, 

 f. 2, 1867 ; " Dumeril, Hist, Poiss. II. 237, 1870 (San Francisco). 



Aeipenser alexandri Dumeril, "Nouv. Arch. Mus. III. 183, pi. 15, 

 f. 1, 1867 ;" Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. 239, 1870 (California). 



Aeipenser oligopeltis Dumeril, "Nouv. Arch. Mus. III. 184, pi. 

 15, f. 2, 1867;'" Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 241, 1870 (San Fran- 

 cisco). 



Aeipenser acutirostris Ayres, Proc. Cal. Ac. Nat. Sc. 15, 1854; 

 Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. VIII. 344, 1870 (California). 



Habitat. — Pacific Coast of North America ascending the Frazer's, 

 Columbia and Sacramento rivers. 



Etymology. Lat. medium, moderate; rostrum, snout. 



This species is found on the Pacific Coast of North America and 

 ascending all the larger rivers. It attains a length of 8 to 10 feet 

 and a weight of 400 to 500 pounds. It is not used for food, said to 

 be poisonous. The specimen examined by us was taken by Jordan 

 and Gilbert at San' Francisco. 



3. Aeipenser sturio. Common sturgeon. 



Aeipenser corpore tuberculis spinosis aspero Artedi, Genera Piseium 

 65, 1738 (seas of Europe). 



Aeipenser sturio Linnreus, Syst, Nat. Ed. X. 237, 1753 (After 

 Artedi and of the copyists and of European writers generally); 

 Mitchill, Trans. Lit. and Phil. Soc. N. Y. 461, 1814 (New York); 

 Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. VIII. 342, 1870 (German ocean ; 

 Thames river ; Holland ; Rhine river ; New York) ; Dumeril, Hist, 

 Poiss. II. 184, 1870 (Bordeaux; mouth of the Seine; Rome); Day, 

 Fish. Gt. Brit. III. 280, 1885 ; Goode, Fish and Fisheries of U. 8. 

 660, pi. 243, 1884. 



Sturio vulgaris Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiol. Sicil. 41 and 58, 1810 

 (Palermo). 



Aeipenser lichtensteini Bloch and Schneider, Syst, Iehthyol. 348, 

 1801 (German ocean). 



Aeipenser oxyrhynchus Mitchill, Trans. Lit. and Phil. Soc. N. Y. 

 462, 1814 (New York); Le Sueur, "Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. 394, 

 1818 ;" Storer, Rept. Fish. Mass. 178, 1839 (Massachusetts) ; De- 

 Kay, N. Y. Fauna Fish. 346, pi. 58, f. 189, 1842 (New York) ; 

 Ayres, Boston Jour. Nat. Hist. 287, 1842 (Long Island Sound) ; 

 Storer, Synop. Fish. N. Amer. 499, 1845. Gill, Cat. Fish. East 

 coast N.' Amer. 58, 1861; Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 106, 1870 

 (Philadelphia) ; Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 114, 1880 (Potomac 

 river) ; Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 367, 1883 (Chesapeake Bay). 



Aeipenser sturio oxyrhynchus Mitchill, Trans. Lit. and Phil. Soc. 

 N. Y. 462, 1814; Jordan and Gilbert, Synop. Fish. N. Amer. 85,. 

 1882 ; Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. Amer. 13, 1885. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Acipenser latiroatris Parnell, "Wien. Mem. VII. 405, 1838" (Frith 

 of Forth). 



Acipen&er hospitus Kriiyer, Skand. Fauna, III. 780, 1840. 



Acipenser thompsonsi "Bull. Proc. Roy. Irish. Acad. 21 ; " "Bull. 

 Thompson's Nat. Hist. Ireland, IV. 245,* 1856 " (Ireland). 



Acipenser attilus Gray, Hand-Book Chondropterigean Fish. 13, 

 1831 (England). 



Acipenser yarreUii Dumeril, " Nouv. Arch. Mus. III. 164, 1867." 



Acipenser mitehillii Dumeril, Hist, Poiss. II. 116, 1870 (New 

 York). 



Acipenser kennicottii Dumeril, Hist, Poiss. II. 130, 1870 (James 

 river). 



Acipenser girardi Dumeril, Hist, Poiss. II. 132, 1870 (Mary- 

 land). 



Acipenser macrorhinus Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 133, 1870 (New- 

 York). 



Acipenser megalaspis Dumeril, HJ5t. Poiss. II. 135, 1870 (Lake 

 Champlain). 



Acipenser milberti Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 137, 1870 (New York). 



Acipenser bairdii Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 145, 1870 (Maryland). 



Acipenser storeri Dumeril, Hist, Poiss. II. 147, 1870 (Boston ). 



Acipenser holbrookii Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 149. 1870 (Charles- 

 ton). 



Acipenser lecontei Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 232, 1870 (New 

 York). 



Habitat. — Atlantic ocean, ascending the principal rivers of Europe 

 and North America. 



Etymology. Lat. sturgeon. 



This widely distributed species reaches a length of five to twelve 

 feet and a weight of one to five hundred pounds. In Europe they 

 have been secured of a length of eighteen feet, They spawn in spring 

 and early summer in the lower stretches of rivers. Within the last 

 few years the capture of the sturgeon for smoking and for the 

 manufacture of caviare from its eggs has attained considerable im- 

 portance on the Atlantic coast. 



We have examined three specimens about 12 inches in length 

 from the Potomac river, and one stuffed skin four feet long from 

 Boston. 



A. sturio oxyrhynchus Mitchill, is undoubtedly identical with the 

 European species A. sturio. It differs from it only in having 

 generally fewer lateral plates and somewhat rougher stellate ossifica- 

 tions. But as these characteristics are subject to great variation 

 among all the sturgeons, especially with age, they are not of 

 sufficient importance to be made the basis of classification. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



4. Acipenser rubicundus. Lake sturgeon ; Hook sturgeon. 



Acipenser rubicundus Le Sueur, "Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. 388, 

 1818;" Richardson, "Fauna Bor. Amer. 284, 1836;" Fitzinger and 

 Heckel, Ann. Wien. Mus. I. 316, 1836; Kirtland, Kept. Zool. 

 Ohio, 170, 1838 (Ohio) ; Kirtland, Boston Journal Nat. Hist. 303, 



1841 (Cincinnati); DeKay, N. Y. Fauna Fish. 344, pi. 58, f. 191, 



1842 (Great Lakes); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. VIII. 338, 

 1870 (copied) ; Milner, " Rept. U. S. Fish. Com. 67 and 73, 1872 ;" 

 Jordan, Zool. Ohio, IV. 768, 1882; Jordan and Gilbert, Synop. 

 Fish. N. Amer. 87, 1882 ; Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. Amer. 13, 1885. 



Acipenser maculosus Le Sueur, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. 393, 

 1818; Fitzinger and Heckel, "Ann. Wien. Mus. I. 285, 1836;" 

 Kirtland, Rept. Zoology Ohio, 170, 1838; Giinther, Cat. Fish. 

 Brit. Mus. VIII. 3397 1870 (Ohio; Montreal); Dumeril, Hist. 

 Poiss. II. 113, 1870 (name only) ; Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 127, 

 1881 (Hudson's Bay) ; Jordan, Zool. of Ohio, IV. 768, 1882. 



Acipenser serotinus Rafinesque, Ichthyol. Ohiensis, 80, 1820 

 (Ohio R.) ; Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 158, 1870 (Ohio river). 



Acipenser ohiensis Rafinesque, Ichthyol. Ohiensis, 81, 1820 (Ohio 

 river); Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 156, 1870 (Wabash river). 



Acipenser macrostomus Rafinesque, Ichth. Ohiensis, 81, 1820 

 (Ohio river). 



Dineetus truncatus Rafinesque, le. 81 (on a drawing). 



Acipenser rupertianus Richardson, Fauna, Bor. Amer. 311, 1836 ; 

 Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 128, 1870 (Mississippi river). 



Acipenser Iwvis Agassiz, Lake Superior, 267, 1 850 ( Lake Superior). 



Acipenser carbonarius Agassiz, Lake Superior, 271, 1850 (Lake 

 Superior). 



Acipenser rhynchaeus Agassiz, Lake Superior, 276, 1850 (Lake 

 Superior) ; Dumeril, Hist, Poiss. II. Ill, 1870 (Lake Superior). 



Acipenser liopeltis Giinther, Cat, Fish. Brit. Mus. VIII. 34, 1870. 



Acipenser copei Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 108, 1870. (Upper 

 Missouri ?) 



Acipenser rauchii Dumeril, Hist, Poiss. II. 118, 1870 (Osage 

 river). 



Acipenser richardson ./ '/Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 120, 1870 (Missouri 

 river). 



Acipenser anasimos Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 122, 1870 (Missouri 

 river). 



Acipenser paranasimos Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 124, 1870 

 (Huntsville, Ala. ) 



Acipenser anthratinus Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 126, 1870 (Lake 

 Erie). 



Acipenser lamarii Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 139, 1870 (Mississippi 

 river). 



Acipenser atelaspis Dumeril, Hist, Poiss. II. 141, 1870 (Saskatch- 

 awan river). 



Acipenser rafinesquii Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 143, 1870 (Ohio 

 river). 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



Acipenser rosarium Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 152, 1870 (Upper 

 Mississippi or Lake Erie). 



Acipenser platyrhinus Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 154, 1870 (Upper 

 Mississippi or Lake Erie). 



Acipenser kirtlandii Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 161, 1870 (Lake 

 Erie). 



Acipenser nertinianus Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 162, 1870 (Mich- 

 igan). 



Acipenser honneymani Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 177, 1870. 



Acipenser Cincinnati Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 221), 1870 (Ohio ' 

 river at Cincinnati). 



Acipenser buffalo Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 231, 1870 (Lake Erie). 



Habitat. — Mississippi valley. Great Lakes, rivers and lakes of 

 Northern North America. 



Etymology. Lat. rubicundus, ruddy. 



This species is found in great numbers in the Great Lakes and 

 waters to the northward, and the rivers of the Mississippi vallev, 

 especially very abundant in the upper lakes. It is a smaller species 

 than those of the Atlantic and has a greater number of lateral plates. 

 They spawn early in June, in the southern end of Lake Michigan 

 near the shore and the mouths of rivers where they remain about 

 two weeks. These are the largest fish of the Lakes. They are 

 taken only within comparatively shoal waters and in some of the 

 bays, and among the islands they are very abundant. Their average 

 length is about five feet, though it is said they have been taken of a 

 length of 9 feet. Their food consists almost entirely of shell-fish. 

 As an article of food they are not generally popular as their meat is 

 too rich in the peculiar flavor of the oil of the fish. Smoking is the 

 common way of preparing it. 



The specimen examined by us was taken by H. S. Bates at 

 Michigan City, Indiana. 



5. Acipenser brevirostrum. Short -nosed sturgeon. 



Acipenser brevirostrum Le Sueur, "Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. 390, 

 1818 " ; Fitzinger and Heckel, Ann. Wien. Mus. 31 G, 1836 ; DeKav 

 New York Fauna Fish. 345, 1842. (Norfolk. Va. ) 



Acipenser brevirostris Storer, Svnop. Fish. N. Amer. 500, 1846; 

 Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. VIII. 341, 1870 ; Jordan and Gilbert, 

 Synop. Fish. N. Amer. 87, 1883 (copied) ; Jordan. Cat. Fish. N. 

 Amer. 13,1885. 



Acipenser obtusirostris Lovetzky, " Nouv. Mem. Soc. Nat. Mus. 

 III. 257, 1533." 



Acipenser microrhynchiis Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 164, 1870 (New 

 York I. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Acipenser lesueurii Durneril, Hist. Poiss. II. 1G6, 1870 (New- 

 York). 



Acipenser dehayii Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 168, 1870 (New York). 



Acipenser rostellum Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 173, 1870 (Probably 

 New York). 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast United States from Cape Cod to Florida. 



Etymology. Lat. brevis, short ; rostrum, snout. 



The specimen examined by us was taken by Dr. Gilbert at Charles- 

 ton, S. C. 

 6. Acipenser transmontanus. White sturgeon j Oregon sturgeon. 



? Acipenser sp. Pallas, Zoogr. Rosso-Asiat. 1811 (Aleutian Islands; 

 on notes). 



Acipenser transmontanus Richardson, Fauna Bor. Amer. III. 278, 

 1836 (Columbia river) ; Girard, Pacif. R. R. Survey, 355, 1859 

 (Columbia river) ; Gunther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. VIII. 336, 1870 

 l California) ; Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 236, 1870 (copied) ; Jordan 

 and Gilbert, Proc. U. S.Nat. Mus. 457, 1880 (Puget Sound; 

 Columbia river; San Francisco); Jordan and Jouy, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus. 16,1881 (Sacramento river ; Frazer's river) ; Jordan and 

 Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 36, 1881 (Sacramento river ; Columbia 

 river ; Frazer's river) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Synop. Fish. N. Amer. 

 86, 1882 ; Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. Amer. 13, 1885. 



Antaceus transmontanus Gill, Proc. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci. 331, 

 1862 (name only). 



f Acipenser aleutensis Fitzinger and Heckel, Ann. Wiener Museum, 

 1836 (after Pallas). 



Acipenser acutirostris Ayres, Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci. 14, 1854 

 (San Francisco) ; Girard, Pacif. R. R. Survey, 335, 1859 (San 

 Francisco) ; Dumeril, " Nouv. Arch. Mus. III. 186, 1867 ; Dumeril, 

 Hist, Poiss. II. 243, 1870 " (copied). 



Antaceus acutirostris Gill, Proc. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci. 331, 1862 

 (name only). 



Acipenser brachyrhynchus Ayres, Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci. 15, 

 1854 (San Francisco); Dumeril, "Nouv. Arch. Mus. III. 166, pi. 

 11, f. 1 , 1867 ; " Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 221, 1870 (San Francisco) ; 

 Gunther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. VIII. 337, 1870 (San Francisco). 



Antaceus brachyrhynchus Gill, Proc. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci. 331, 

 1862 (name only). 



Acipenser caryi Dumeril, "Nouv. Arch. Mus. III. 169, pi. 12, f. 

 2, 1867;" Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 224, 1870 (California). 



Acipenser ayresii Dumeril, " Nouv. Arch. Mus. Ill, 171, pi. 12, f. 

 1, 1867 ;" Dumeril, Hist, Poiss. II. 226, 1870 (California). 



Acipenser putnami Dumeril, "Nouv. Arch. Mus. III. 178, pi. 13, 

 f. 1, 1867 ;" Dumeril, Hist. Poiss. II. 234, 1870 (San Francisco). 



Habitat. — Pacific Coast of North America from British Columbia 

 south to Monterey, ascending the Frazer's, Columbia and Sacramento 

 rivers. 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



255 



Etymology. Lat. trans, beyond ; montanus, mountain. 



This species is the common sturgeon on the Pacific Coast of North 

 America. Its size and distribution are the same as that of A. 

 medirostris ; it is however much more abundant. They run up the 

 larger rivers in great numbers in the spring for the purpose of 

 spawning. It is one of the most common food fishes in the San 

 Francisco markets, always abundant and cheap. The meat is 

 usually smoked, and caviare is made from the eggs. 



The specimens examined by us were taken by Jordan and Gilbert 

 at San Francisco. 



List of Nominal Species with Identification. 



Tenable names are in Italics. 



Nominal species. 

 Acipenser sturio Linnaeus 

 Acipenser lichtensteini Bloch & Schneider 

 Sturio vulgaris Rafinesque 

 Acipenser sturio oxyrhynchus Mitchill 

 Acipenser oxyrhynchus Mitchill 

 Acipenser rubicundus Le Sueur 

 Acipenser brevirostrum Le Sueur 

 Acipenser maculosus Le Sueur 

 Acipenser platorhynchus Rafinesque 



Acipenser serotinus Rafinesque 

 Acipenser ohiensis Rafinesque 

 Acipenser macrostomus Rafinesque 

 Dinectus truncatus Rafinesque 

 Acipenser attilus Gray 

 Acipenser cataphractus Gray 



Scaphirhynchus rafinesquii Heckel 



Acipenser alutensis Fitz. and Heck. 



Acipenser transmontanus Richardson 



Acipenser rupertianus Richardson 

 Acipenser latirostris Parnell 

 Acipenser hospitus Kroyer 




2.36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE 



Acipenser brevirostris Storer 

 Acipenser lrevis Agassiz 

 Acipenser carbonari us Agassiz 

 Acipenser rhynchams Agassiz 

 Acipenser acutirostris Ayres 



Acipenser medirostris Ayres 

 Acipenser brachyrhynchus Ayres 



Acipenser thompsoni Dumeril 

 Scaphirhynehus platyrhynchus Baird 



Antaceus transmontanus Gill 



Antaceus medirostris Gill 

 Antaceus acutirostris Gill 



Antaceus brachyrhynchus Gill 



Acipenser yarrellii Dumeril 

 Acipenser caryi Dumeril 



Acipenser ayresii Dumeril 



Acipenser putnami Dumeril 



Acipenser agassizii Dumeril 

 Acipenser alexandri Dumeril 

 Acipenser oligopeltis Dumeril 

 Acipenser copei Dumeril 

 Acipenser liopeltis Gunther 

 Acipenser mitchillii Dumeril 

 Acipenser rauchii Dumeril 

 Acipenser richardsonii Dumeril 

 Acipenser anasimos Dumeril 

 Acipenser paranasimos Dumeril 

 Acipenser anthracinus Dumeril 

 Acipenser kennicottii Dumeril 

 Acipenser girardi Dumeril 

 Acipenser macrorhynus Dumeril 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



1889.] 



Acipenser megalaspis Dumeril 



Acipenser milberti Dumeril 

 Acipenser lamarii Dumeril 

 Acipenser atelaspis Dumeril 

 Acipenser rafinesquii Dumeril 

 Acipenser bairdii Dumeril 

 Acipenser storeri Dumeril 

 Acipenser holbrookii Dumeril 

 Acipenser lecontei Dumeril 

 Acipenser rosarium Dumeril 

 Acipenser platyrbinus Dumeril 

 Acipenser kirtlandii Dumeril 

 Acipenser nertiniamis Dumeril 

 Acipenser microrhynchus Dumeril 

 Acipenser lesueurii Dumeril 

 Acipenser dekayii Dumeril 

 Acipenser rostellum Dumeril 

 Acipenser honneymani Dumeril 

 Acipenser Cincinnati Dumeril 

 Acipenser buffalo Dumeril 

 Acipenser anthracinus Dumeril 

 Scaphiryucbops platyrhynchus Gill 



257 



1870 A. sturio. 



1870 A. sturio. 



1870 A. rubicundus. 



1870 A. rubicundus. 



1870 A. rubicundus. 



1870 A. sturio. 



1870 A. sturio. 



1870 A. sturio. 



1870 A. sturio. 



1870 A. rubicundus. 



1870 A. rubicundus. 



1870 A. rubicundus. 



1870 A. rubicundus. 



1870 A. brevirostrum. 



1870 A. brevirostrum 



1870 A. brevirostrum. 



1870 A. brevirostrum. 



1870 A. rubicundus. 



1870 A. rubicundus 



1870 A. rubicundus. 



1870 A. rubicundus. 



1876 S. platyrhyn- 



fchus. 



18 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



A REVIEW OF THE EUROPEAN AND AMERICAN 

 URANOSCOPIDJE OR STAR-GAZERS. 



BY PHILIP H. KIRSCH. 



In the following paper, I give the synonymy of the species of 

 Uranoscopidce or Star-Gazers found in European and American 

 waters, with an analytical key by which the genera and species may 

 be distinguished. The specimens examined mostly belong to the 

 Museum of the University of Indiana, nearly all of them having 

 been collected by Dr. Jordan. 



The family of Uranoscopidce is here accepted as limited by Dr. 

 Gill and by Jordan and Gilbert. It may be thus defined : 



Head large, broad, partly covered with bony plates. Body 

 elongate, conic, subcompressed, widest and usually deepest at the 

 occiput. Body either naked or covered with very small, smooth, 

 adherent scales, which are arranged in very oblique series running 

 downward and backward ; the scales on the belly inconspicuous or 

 obsolete. Lateral line little developed, running high. Eyes small, 

 on anterior and upper portion of head with vertical range. Mouth 

 vertical, with strong and prominent mandible ; teeth moderate, on 

 jaws, vomer and palatines. 



Premaxillaries freely protractile ; maxillary broad, without sup- 

 plemental bones, not slipping under the preorbital. Gill-openings 

 wide, continued forwards; gill-membranes nearly separate, free from 

 the isthmus. Pseudobranchiae present; branchiostegals ; 3? gills, 

 a slit behind the last ; no anal papilla. Spinous dorsal very short 

 or wanting ; second dorsal long. Anal and pectorals large, the 

 latter with broad oblique bases, the lower rays rapidly shortened, 

 most of them branched ; ventrals jugular, close together, I, 5, the 

 spine very short, innermost ray longest ; caudal not forked. Air- 

 bladder generally absent; pyloric coeca in moderate number. 

 Carnivorous fishes living on the bottom of the shores of most warm 

 regions. 



Analysis of European and American Genera of Uranoscopidce. 



a. Spinous dorsal obsolete ; no scales ; head above covered with 

 bone, except the groove of the premaxillary spine ; the bony occipital 

 plate coalescing with the orbital rims ; humeral spine well developed; 

 no distinct protuberances on top of head; no spine in front of 

 humeral spine; two small forward directed spines in front of eye ; 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



three small spines on lower margin of preopercle ; upper lip scarcely 



fringed ; no retractile tentacle in month. Kathf/iostoma, 1 . 



aa. Spinous dorsal of four well developed spines; scales present. 



c. Head covered above with bone except a small region between 

 and in front of the eyes, the bony occipital plate coalescing with the 

 orbital rims. 



d. Head with spines ; humeral spine well developed ; one strong 

 spine on subopercle, four smaller ones on preopercle, all directed 

 downward ; one small spine directly above and in front of humeral 

 spine; four low, stout protuberances on top of head pointing back- 

 ward ; naked space between eyes extending back to posterior part of 

 orbits; upper lip and nostrils not fringed; retractile tentacle in 

 mouth more or less developed. Uranoscopus, 2. 



<l<l. Head without spines; humeral spine obsolete; occipital 

 region with bluntish projections; naked space between eyes extend- 

 ing back to near middle of orbits ; lips and nostrils fringed ; no 

 retractile tentacle in mouth. Astros* 'o its, 3. 



cc. Head above not entirely covered with bone, the occipital plate 

 ceasing much behind the orbits; from the middle line anteriorly a 

 Y-shaped bony process extends forward, the tips of the fork between 

 the eyes ; a trapezoidal space on either side of the Y, covered by 

 naked skin, bounded by the Y, the eyes, the suborbitals and the 

 occipital plate. A covered furrow behind and on the inner side of 

 each eye terminating near front of orbits, its edges fringed. Head 

 without spines ; humeral spine obsolete ; lips and nostrils fringed ; 

 no retractile tentacle in mouth. Epsilonphorus, 4. 



KATHETOSTOMA. 



Kathetostoma Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. II. 231, 1860 (Iceve). 



Type. Uranoscopus Icevis Bloch and Schneider. 



Etymology. Kdthetos, vertical ; stoma, mouth. 



This genus includes two or three species, all but one belonging to 

 the East Indian fauna. 



Analysis of American species of Kathetostoma. 



a. Head very large, its upper surface covered with coarsely gran- 

 ular striate bones ; eye 3 in interorbital space ; front of dorsal nearer 

 tip of caudal than to snout, its base ecpual to distance from its ante- 

 rior insertion to occipital bone, its longest ray (3d) 2 in its base ; 

 front of anal opposite front of dorsal, its base somewhat longer, its 

 height equal to that of dorsal, its longest rays reaching to base of 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



caudal ; width of caudal base 3 in base of dorsal, its longest rays 1£ 

 in base of anal and but little shorter than those of pectorals; 

 ventrals narrow, long, reaching to lower insertion of pectorals; which 

 are broad, width of base 1} in longest rays, which reach to the vertical 

 front of dorsal. Color blackish above, sides chocolate, belly yellow- 

 ish covered with very small brown specks; throat white; chin and 

 naked space on top of head black ; ventrals white ; pectorals black ; 

 dorsal brown, with irregularlv mottled base and tipped with white; 

 anal white anteriorly with brown specks, posteriorly darker from 

 the greater number of specks, black blotch between 9th and 10th 

 rays; caudal white, irregularly blotched with black. Head 2 1 in 

 length; depth 4; D. 13; A. 13; length 4'» inches 



AVERRUNCUS, J. 



1. Kathetostoma averruncus. 



Kathetmtoma averruncus Jordan and Bollman, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus. 1889 (Pacific Coast of U. 8. of Colombia). 



Habitat. — Pacific Coast of Northern South America. (8° 57' N. 

 79° 31' 30" \V.) 



Etymology. Latin, a protecting deity, from a word meaning to 

 keep off, in allusion to the defensive armature of the head. The 

 single specimen, the type of this species, was dredged by the steamer 

 Albatross, between Panama and the Galapagos. 



URANOSCOPUS. 



Uranoscopus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. I. 250, 1758 (seaber). 



Callionymus Gronow, Syst. ed. Gray, 43, 1854 (araneus) (not of 

 Linnaeus). 



Type. Uranoscopus seaber Linnaeus. 



Etymology. Ouranos, the sky ; skopds, looking. 



This genus includes some 11 species, all of them, so far as certainly 

 known, confined to the' Old World, although but one is found in 

 Europe. 



Analysis of European species of Uranoscopus. 



a. Pectorals large, base two in their longest ray, which is equal 

 in length to caudal and extends to beyond front of second dorsal ; 

 ventrals small, their length 1=] in that of pectoral, and extending to 

 lower insertion of that fin ; spinous dorsal small, first spine four in 

 length of base, which is four in length of second dorsal; membrane 

 of first dorsal extending beyond and concealing the spines; second 

 dorsal and anal equal and opposite, each other, the latter reaching 

 to base of caudal ; vent midway between snout and base of caudal. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Color dark brown above, whitish below ; all the darker portions of 

 head, body and fins densely covered with minute black specks. Head 

 3 in length ; depth about 4; D. IV-I, 13 ; A. 13 ; length 8 inches. 



scaber, 2. 

 2. Uranoscopus scaber. Star-gazer; Bocoa in capo. 



Uranoscopus scaber Linnaeus, Svst. Nat. I. 250, 1758 (Mediter- 

 ranean) ; Cuv. and Val. III. 287, 1829. 



Uranoscopus mus Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss. II. 349, 1799 (Mediter- 

 ranean). 



Callionymus araneus Gronow, Syst. ed. Gray, 44, 1854 (Mediter- 

 ranean). 



Uranoscopus occidental}* Agassiz, Spix, Pise. Brazil, 123, 1829 

 (Atlantic Ocean); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit, Mus. II. 229, 1860 

 (West Indies). 



Habitat. — Mediterranean Sea and neighboring waters. 



Etymology. Lat. scaber, rougb. 



This species is generally found in shallow waters in the Mediter- 

 ranean. The specimens examined by me were taken by Dr. Jordan 

 at Venice. 



The brief description given of Uranoscopus occidental is by Dr. 

 Giinther agrees fully with Uranoscopus scaber. Agassiz's specimens 

 were from "the Atlantic,'' no locality being given. As most of the 

 collections of Spix and Martius were made in Brazil, it has been 

 assumed that this species came from Brazil also. But the habitat 

 needs confirmation. 



ASTKOSCOPUS. 



Astroscopus (Brevoort MS.) Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 20, 

 1860 (anoplus). 



Agnus Giinther, Cat, Fish. Brit. Mus. II. 229, 1860 (anoplus). 



Type. Uranoscopus anoplus Cuv. and Val. 



Etymology. Astron, star; skopjeo, to look. 



This genus is close to Uranoscopus, differing mainly in the lack of 

 armature to the head. But one species is known. 



Analysis of species of Astroscopus. 

 a. Pectorals rather large, their longest ray equal in length to 

 base of second dorsal and extending to front of that fin ; ventrals 

 equal in length to pectorals, and extending to front of that fin ; the 

 second dorsal equal to anal but its anterior insertion slightly 

 posterior to that ; anal rays reach to base of caudal ; vent much 

 nearer base of caudal than to tip of snout. Color dark brown 

 above, yellowish below ; lighter portions of body covered with small 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



white specks ; chin jet black ; all the fins whitish. Head 2 2 in body ; 

 depth 3! ; D. IV-I, 13 ; A. 13 ; length 2 inches. anoplos, 3. 



3. Astroscopus anoplos. 



Urcmoscopus anoplos Cuv. and VaL, Hist. Nat. Poiss. VIII. 493, 

 1831 (Atlantic coast N. A., probably from Charleston) ; Storer, Syn. 

 Fish. North America, 298, 1846 (copied). 



Agnus anoplus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. II. 229, 1860 

 (copied). 



Astroscopus (ampin* Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, 20, 1860 

 (no description) ; Gill. Cat. Fisli. Eastern coast North America, 20, 

 1873 (name only); Jordan, Cat. Fish. North America, 118, 1885; 

 Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 608, 1886; Jordan, Manual 

 Vertebrates of U. 6., ed. V. 156, 1888. 



Habitat. — South Atlantic coast of the United States from Long 

 Island to Key West. 



Etymology. Anoplos, unarmed. 



This species seems to be rather rare on our coast, but few speci- 

 mens having been taken, and these of small size, 2 to 5 inches long. 

 The specimen examined by me is 1J inches long. It was taken by 

 Dr. Jordan at Key West. 



UPSILONPHOKUS. 



TJpsilonphorus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 113, 1861 (F- 

 graecum ). 



Type. Uranoscopus Y-graecum Cuv. and Val. 



Etymology, y, psilon ; phoros, Y -bearing. 



This genus is well distinguished from Astroscopus by the peculiar 

 armature of the top of the head. Two species are known, both of 

 the New World. 



Naked space between forks of the Y on top of head long and 

 narrow, shorter than the vertical limb of the Y ; no distinct spines 

 before eye; white spots on body distinct, each surrounded by a dark 

 ring; eye 3-3 j in interorbital space ; base of the two dorsals greater 

 in length than distance from front of first dorsal to tip of snout ; base 

 of first dorsal twice length of its first spine; first spine equals in 

 length the third, and half that of the second, and slightly exceeds 

 the fourth ; base of second dorsal equals twice length of its longest 

 ray ; caudal equal in length to ventrals ; pectorals longer than 

 ventrals and extending to middle of second dorsal. Color dark 

 brown above, white below ; upper parts covered with small roundish 

 white spots, each surrounded by a dark ring ; lower jaw and labial 

 fringes similarly spotted; spinous dorsal black, white posteriorly; 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



anterior portion of second dorsal brown ; central portion with a 

 horizontal white and black band, and tipped with white ; posterior 

 portion with two vertical black stripes and a white one between them ; 

 caudal black, tipped with white, with two longitudinal white stripes, 

 its upper and lower edges narrowly white ; anal white at base and 

 tip, with a black median band half the depth of fin, darkest poste- 

 riorly, with last ray white ; pectorals brown with a black band below, 

 and the lower edge white; ventrals white, with a black longitudinal 

 streak near tip and center of fin. Head 21 in body ; depth 3£ ; D. 

 IV-I, 13; A. 13; length 12 inches. 



Y-GRAECUM. 



4. Upsilonphorus Y-graecum. 



Uranoscoptts Y-graecum Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss. III. 308, 

 1829 (origin unknown); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus. II. 229, 



1860 (Caribbean Sea). 



Upsilonphorus Y-graecum Gill, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 113, 



1861 (Caribbean Sea); Jordan, Cat. Fish. North America. 118, 

 1885: Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat, Mus. 28, 1886 (Beaufort, N. C.) ; 

 Jordan, Manual Vertebrates U. S. Ed. V. 156, 1888. 



Astroscopus Y-graecum Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 58, 1879 

 (Saint John's River, Fla., and Matanzas River Inlet, Fla.) ; Gill, 

 Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila, 21, 1860 (name only); Jordan and 

 Gilbert, Synop. Fish. North America, 628, 1883. 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of North America in sandy bays, from 

 Cape Hatteras to Surinam. 



Etymology. Lat, Y-graecvm, the letter Y. 



Specimens are in the National Museum from Matanzas River In- 

 let, Fla., and Saint John's River Fla. 



This species is rather common along the coasts of the South 

 Atlantic and especially the Gulf States, in sandy bays, mostly in 

 shallow water. The specimens examined by me are from Pensacola, 

 and Beaufort, N. C. 



Naked space between forks of Y on top of head short and broad, 

 but longer than the vertical limb of the Y, which is very short; two 

 distinct spinules directed forward before eye ; white spots on body 

 very small and irregular without dark rings; eye 5i in interorbital 

 space; base of the dorsals equal in length to the distance from front 

 of first dorsal to tip of snout ; base of first dorsal twice length of its 

 longest spine ; first spine equal to the second in length, and three 

 times the length of the last ; length of middle caudal rays a little 

 less than that of ventrals ; pectorals slightly longer than ventrals, 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



3* in total length and extend to 5th anal ray. Color of upper parts 

 of body and lower jaw bright chocolate; belly and throat white; 

 darker portions covered with numerous circular spots much lighter 

 than ground color ; membrane of first dorsal black ; second dorsal 

 white with three irregular bands of dull black obliquely across it; 

 the caudal with three parallel bands of blackish brown, the middle 

 of which appears to be the continuation of a variable longitudinal 

 band on the center of each side; the anal has a variable band of 

 dull brown, darker upon the posterior termination. Depth 4 in. 

 length in young and 3i times in adult; D. IV or V — 13 or 14; V. 



6. GUTTATUS. 



5. Upsilonphorus guttatus. 



Astroseopus guttatus Abbott, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 365, 1860 

 (Cape May, N. J.) 



Upsilonphorus guttatus Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 60, 1879 

 (Tompkinsville, N. Y., and Norfolk, Va., and other localities). 



Astroseopus anoplus Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 58, 1879 (Tomp- 

 kinsville, N. Y., and Norfolk, Va.) ; Jordan, Cat. Fish. North 

 America, 118, 1885 (Young) ; Bean, Bull. U. S. Fish. Com. 130, 131 

 and 136, 1888. (Somers Point, N. J.) 



Upsilonphorus guttatus Gill, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 113, 1861. 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of United States from Long Island to 

 Norfolk, Va. 



Specimens are in the National Museum from Tompkinsville, N. 

 Y., and Norfolk, Va. 



This species reaches the same size as the preceding. The dis- 

 tinctive characters pointed out by Dr. Jordan in Synopsis Fishes N. 

 A. 941 , 1883, hold good for the adult as well as for the young. That 

 the two species are distinct is evident from comparison of spec- 

 imens in the National Museum, which Dr. Jordan made at my 

 request. In the National Museum specimens of the two species 

 equally large in size are preserved. The localities recorded for U. 

 guttatus are all to the north of Cape Hatteras ; those for U y-graecum 

 all to the south. 



Dr. Jordan says : " In U. guttatus the pale spots are much smaller, 

 less sharply defined, and occupy a smaller area than in U. y-graecum; 

 the lower part of the head has two black blotches in both species; 

 the second dorsal, anal, and ventrals are nearly or quite plain. The 

 naked area behind each eye is [in U. guttatus'] lunate, its length 

 barely twice that of the snout; the bony V-shaped plate is short and 

 broad, concave on the median line, and forked for about half its 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



length, the posterior undivided portion broader than long ; the bony 

 bridge across the occiput but little shorter than the part of the head 

 which precedes it. In U. y-graecum the naked area is trapezoidal, 

 longer than broad, and about 4 times the length of the snout ; the Y 

 is forked for more than half its length, its undivided part more than 

 twice as long as broad, and not concave ; the occipital plate is not 

 half as long as the part of the head which precedes it." 



According to Dr. J. A. Henshall, the naked area on top of the. 

 head is the seat of electric power in life. This interesting statement 

 needs verification. 



Recapitulation. 

 The following is the list of the genera and species of the family of 

 star-gazers ( Uranoscopidae) recognized in this paper as occurring in 

 European and American waters : 



1. Kathetostoma Giinther. 



1. Kathetostoma averruncus Jordan and Bollman. 



2. Uranoscopus Linnaeus. 



2. Uranoscopus scaber Linnanis. 



3. Astroscopus Brevoort. 



o. Astroscopus anoplus. (Cuv. and Val.) 



4. Upsilonphorus Gill. 



4. Upsilonphorus Y-graecum. (Cuv. and Val.) 



5. Upsilonphorus guttatus. (Abbott.) 




260 PROCEEDINGS <>F THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



NOTES ON THE FOOD OF BIRDS. 

 BY F. C. BAKER. 



The lack of satisfactory information upon the food of the birds of 

 the United States, abundantly justifies additional investigation. The 

 value of exact knowledge of' food in the development of the law of 

 natural selection, as well as to the agriculturist, is obvious. The facts 

 contained in the following article are the result of observations 

 made in the field during a period of four months (Jan., Feb., March 

 and April, 1889), at Micco, Brevard Co., Florida, together with 

 careful examinations in the laboratory. Upwards of three hundred 

 birds have been dissected and the contents of their stomachs care- 

 fully noted. It will be seen that a number of birds subsist mainly 

 upon mollusks, while others feed entirely upon seeds and berries, or 

 the vegetables of the farmer's garden ; while all are to some extent 

 insectivorous. A discovery of interest was the presence of several 

 specimens of Pupa rupieola Say, in the stomach of the catbird, 

 Galeoscoptes earolinensis. My observations upon the Brown Pelican, 

 Pelecaniis fuscus, bring to light some obscure points in regard to the 

 food of that bird. 



Larus argentatus Briinn. 



The four specimens dissected all contained fish. 

 Sterna maxima Bodd. 



Fifteen specimens dissected contained small specimens of Squalius 

 gibbosus. A single individual contained forty fishes of an average 

 length of three inches. 



Anhinga anhinga Linn. 



Five specimens dissected. Three males contained each one 

 Squalius gibbosus, fourteen inches in length. Two females contained 

 a full crop of small fishes. Before the young of the species leave the 

 nest, a parasitic worm is found in their stomachs, which works its 

 way to the brain and thrives there in clusters of ten or more. Nine- 

 tenths of both old and young are thus infested, and yet are in 

 apparently good health. 



Phalacrocorax dilophus floridanus, And. 



Six specimens dissected all contained Squalius gibbosus. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Pelecanus fusous Linn. 



A large number of these birds were dissected and all contained 

 the remains of Squalius gibbosus. It has been stated by certain 

 ornithologists that the Pelican will not select for food a fish over 

 eight inches in length. The contents of the crops of four Pelicans 

 were as follows: — No. 1, contained three fishes of 14, 16 and 12 

 inches respectively. No. 2, contained five fishes of 8, 10, 7, 6, and •'> 

 inches respectively. No. 3, contained seventy-five fishes of an 

 average length of three inches. No. 4, contained two fishes 12 and 

 10 inches in length. 



It will therefore be seen that the Pelican uses for food fishes from 

 three to sixteen inches in length, ten to fourteen inches being an 

 ordinary size for them. That these birds carry in their pouches a 

 number of fishes for a considerable distance is certain, the writer 

 having seen several instances of the kind. 



Anas fulvigula Ridgw. 



Two specimens dissected contained mollusks, the shells of Trmi- 

 citdla subci/lindrica Gray, and Odostomia impressa Say, being quite 

 distinguishable. 



Anas discors Linn. 



Twenty specimens dissected contained shells of Amnicola floridana 

 Frau. and Truncatella subcylindrica Gray. 



Spatula clypeata Linn. 



Ten specimens dissected all contained mollusks, shells of Rissoina 

 pulchra Ad. being the most prominent, 



Dafila acuta Linn. 



A large number dissected all contained mollusks. 

 Aythya affinis Eyt. 



Eight specimens dissected all contained mollusks, the most impor- 

 tant of which was Rissoina cancellata Phil. 



Botaurus lentiginosus Montag. 



The food of this bird consists principally of Rana pipiens, and 

 Hyla viridis. 



Ardea herodias Linn. 



The food of the Ardeidse as represented by this species and A 

 egretta Gml., A. mndidissima Gml., A. tricolorruficollis Gosse, A. 

 caerulea Linn and A. virescens Linn., seems to be as follows : — Rana 




2(58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889.. 



pipiens, Coluber quadrivittatus, Squalius gibbosus and Bufo lenti- 

 ginosus. 



Grus mexicana Mull. 



The bill of fare of this bird is quite voluminous, consisting of 

 Pa na pipiens , Leptophm aestivus, Bufo lentiginosis and Lygosoma 

 lateralis. 



Calidris arenaria Linn. 



Contained niollusks, Odostomia impressa Say seeming to be the 

 principal article of food. 



Symphemia semipalmata Gmelin. 



Shells of Odostomia impressa Say and Gemma gemma, Totten 

 were found in the crops of these birds. 



Columbigallina passerina Linn. 



These birds all contained seed and other vegetable remains. 

 Cathartes aura Linn. 



Contained carrion. 

 Eostramus sociabilis Vieill. 



The food of this bird consists entirely of the animal of Pomu» 

 depressus Say. 



Buteo lineatus alleni Ridgw. 



The bill of fare of this bird is unusually varied, consisting of the 

 following: — Sciurus carolinensis, Sturnella magna mexicana, Rami 

 pipiens, also the remains of coleopterous and neuropterous insects. 

 Falco sparverius Linn. 



Two specimens dissected contained the following: — Dendroica 

 coronata, Sayornis phoebe, Hyla viridis and a number of coleopterous 

 insects. 



Syrnium nebulosum alleni Ridgw. 



It would be useless to give a list of the many animals found in the 

 stomach of this bird. The remains of birds, mammals, reptiles and 

 insects were present in the various stomachs examined. 



Dryobates pubescens Linn. 



The following coleopterous insects were found in the stomachs ex- 

 amined : — Derobranchus brevicollis and Bostrichus longicornis, to- 

 gether with the caterpillars of Papilio asterias, P. troilus and 

 Callidryas semnae. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Sphyrapicus varius Linn. 



The food of this bird consists of coleopterous and lepidopterous 

 insects, together with various seeds and other vegetable matter. The 

 following Coleoptera were dissected from their stomachs : — Zaplous 

 hubbardi, Achrysones surinamum and Hypotrichia spissipes. 



Ceophloeus pileatus Linn. 



The food of this bird consists of the larva? of beetles. Exami- 

 nations brought to light several species of insects among which were 

 Derobranchus brevicollis and Hypotrichia spissipes. A few small 

 spiders which live under the bark of trees Avere also noticed. 



Melanerpes carolinensis Linn. 



The food of this woodpecker consists of insects. The larvae of 

 coleopterous insects, the small spiders and beetles constituting the 

 chief part of its diet. These birds were frequently observed picking at 



oranges. 



Colaptes auratus Linn. 



This bird appears to be almost entirely insectivorous, the follow- 

 ing species having been found in its stomach ; Caterpillars of 

 Papilio asterias, P. palamedes and Apatura celtis. The berries of 

 Chamterops palmetto and seed of C. serrulata were also found. 



Tyrannus tyraimus Linn. 



Dissections-of this bird brought to light evidences of insectivorous 

 food. The Honey Bee is also eaten by it. 



Aphelocoma floridana Bartr. 



Remains of Papilio asterias and P. troilus among Lepidoptera, and 

 Derobranchus brevicollis and Zaplous hubbardi among Coleoptera 

 were found in the stomach of this bird. 



Corvus americanus floridanus Aud. 



The remains of Rana pipiens, Hyla viridis, Hypotrichia spissijjces 

 and Zagymuns clerinus were found in the crop of this bird. 



Agelaius phoeniceus Linn. 



The remains of coleopterous and lepidopterous insects together 

 with seeds was dissected from its crop. 



Sturnella magna mexicana >Scl. 



From the crop of this bird were dissected the remains of both 

 insects and seed. Only one of the many specimens of insects 

 dissected from its stomach was in a perfect enough condition to 

 identify. This was the larvae of Papilio troilus. 




270 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Quiscalus quiscula agiaeus Baird. 



The food of this bird consists wholly of the berries of Chavuerops 

 palmetto. 



Quiscalus major Vieill. 



The remains of a few coleopterous insects together with the berries 

 of Chamcerops palmetto were dissected from the stomach of this bird. 



Mimus polyglottus Linn. 



These birds are exceedingly fond of the vegetables in the farmer's 

 garden, and they were often noticed in the act of pecking at the 

 ripe fruit. They also devour numbers of insects. 



Cardinalis cardinalis Linn. 



Berries of Chamcerops palmetto and C. serrulata, together with 

 a few spiders, were dissected from this bird. 



Mnio tilta varia Linn. 

 Compsothlypis americana Linn. 

 Dendroica coronata Linn. 

 Geothlypis trichus Linn. 



The food of these birds appears from dissections to be principally 

 of an insectivorous character. Caterpillars of Papilio asterias, 

 Pieris ilarie, and larvce of Derobranchus brevicollis were found in 

 their stomachs. 



Galcoscoptes carolinensis Linn. 



Specimens of the following were found in the stomach of this bird : 

 Pupa rupicola, P. modica, Derobranchus brevicollis, Zapkous, 

 Hubbardi, and Hypotrichia spissipes. The seed of Chamcerops 

 serrulata were also detected. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



REMARKS UPON THE ROUND-TAILED MUSKRAT, 

 NEOFIBER ALLENI, TRUE. 



BY FRANK C. BAKER. 



The original description of this animal appeared in Science, IV, 

 No. 75, 1884, p. 34. This was followed by one of a more detailed 

 character in the Proceedings of the United States National Museum, 

 VII, 1884, p. 170. The habits and distribution of this mammal 

 have been, until recently, matters of conjecture ; but, thanks to Mr. 

 Frank M. Chapman, we now have a number of interesting facts 

 regarding both its habits and distribution. 



The original place of capture by Dr. Whitttield, was at Georgiana, 

 which is situated near the southern extremity of Merritts Island in 

 Eastern Florida. Its present known locality is thirty miles south on 

 the peninsula, opposite Micco, at " Oak Lodge," the residence of Mr. 

 C. F. Latham. At this point the peninsula is about three-quarters 

 of a mile wide, with a fringe of mangrove-bordered islands on the 

 west shore. Upon the river side there are large savannas, caused by 

 the water of the river making frequent inroads into the land, and it is 

 upon these savannas that Xeofiber alleni may be found in large 

 numbers. The vegetation of the savannas consists largelv of 

 Rhlzophora mangle and Avicennla nitida (red and black mangrove) 

 and " sedge," Borrichia frutescenx, with occasionally black or "yellow 

 mangroves" scattered irregularly over the entire surface of the 

 savanna. The latter are also covered with grass to a height of 

 two or three feet. It is of this grass that Xeofiber constructs its 

 nest, placing it in hollow stumps, around the trunks of the " yellow 

 mangrove," or in the open savannas. The nests when placed in a 

 hollow are of no particular shape, seeming almost as if thrown 

 together to fill up the depression, but when placed in the open, or 

 about the foot of the yellow mangrove, they are then elegant pieces 

 of animal architecture, being of a pyriform shape, from ten to 

 twenty inches in height and nearly as large in their greatest 

 diameter. It was not at all unusual to see from ten to fifteen nests 

 from one point, but it is not probable that all of these were inhabited. 

 The nests are provided with two openings, situated invariably at 

 opposite sides leading from the single chamber within and connecting 

 with two under-ground passageways leading in opposite directions. 

 These runways are constructed just beneath the thick, matted grass 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



and they not infrequently extend for a considerable distance before 

 emerging from the ground. The runways as a rule, have their 

 exits upon the edge of some neighboring pond. Here the animal 

 finds the succulent grass upon which it feeds, and which grows 

 to a height of three or four feet in water half as deep. To procure 

 the best portions of the grass the Neofiber constructs a platform 

 of large sticks, upon which it sits and feeds at its leisure. The 

 largest platform observed measured ten by seven inches. In all my 

 many trips upon the water, by night, both with and without a light, 

 I never saw Neofiber swimming. It is probably, therefore, not much 

 given to nocturnal ramb lings. 



Mr. Chapman says of the habits of this animal: — "It is probable 

 that Neofiber is much less aquatic than the last-named species (the 

 common muskrat, Fiber zebethicus), a fact which would largely 

 account for the differences observed in their habits. That Neofiber 

 is quite at home in the water, however, was clearly shown by the 

 actions of a captured individual, which, placed in a tub of water, 

 swam and dived readily ; in swimming using the tail in a peculiar 

 gyratory manner, the tip describing circles." 



After the departure of Mr. Chapman from "Oak Lodge," I spent 

 four weeks in trapping this animal, and succeeded in catching two 

 specimens, one of which left me nothing but his foot as a remem- 

 brance of the occasion ; but the other was obtained alive and is now 

 in my private collection. This animal when caught and placed in 

 the bottom of my boat, made frequent attempts to escape by crawling 

 over the side. That he is not cowardly when in captivity was shown 

 by the ferocious manner in which he attacked my bare feet when I 

 chanced to come in his way. Mr. Chapman's statements regarding 

 the action of the tail in swimming were corroborated. I spent an entire 

 morning in studying the nests and in following out numerous runways. 

 One of these I found to extend for a distance of fifty feet and 

 to have its exit in a pond near by. The course of this runway some- 

 what resembled the curves of a snake when in motion. 



The description and measurements of the animal in my possession 

 are as follows : 



Neofiber alleni True. 



Above seal-brown ; below silvery-white, with a mixture of rufous ; 

 sides seal-brown, shading to a rufescent tinge, with here and there a 

 few silvery hairs scattered about; forehead and tip of nose black ; tail 

 of a rufescent tinge mixed with black. Adult male. 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Measurement of skin (in millimeters). 



Total length, ...... 



Tail, ........ 



Hind foot (without claws), .... 

 Middle toe of fore foot (without claw), 

 Middle toe of hind foot (without claw). 

 Longest claw of fore foot, .... 



Longest claw of hind foot, .... 



Measurements of skull (in millimeters). 



Total length, ...... 



( rreatest width, . . . . 



Length of nasals, 



Length of tooth row, ....... 



Front edge of first molar to posterior margin of incisor, 

 Greatest width of muzzle, ...... 



Width of interorbital bridge, ..... 



Center of occipital crest to line of hinder margin of orbits, 



273 



325 



126 

 36 

 7 

 9 

 5 

 6 



47 



28 



9 



10 



15 



7 



5 



18 



19 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



NOTES ON THE ANATOMY OF PHOLAS (BARNEA) COSTATA LINNE, 

 AND ZIRPHiEA CRISPATA LINNE. 



BY W. H. BALL. 



In P. costata the mantle is entirely closed, except for the passage 

 of the foot. The siphons of the specimen (contracted in alcohol) 

 combined in a single envelope with distinct terminal orifices, are 

 little shorter than the whole of the rest of the body; their surface is 

 finely circularly wrinkled, they have no epidermidal coat and no 

 terminal coriaceous appendages. The papilla 3 around the two orifices 

 are small and inconspicuous. The mantle margin is simple; the 

 median line of the connective tissue joining its edges is marked off 

 by a pair of not very prominent raphes. The aperture for the foot 

 is oval, about one quarter as long as the shell. About it is a smooth, 

 thick membrane extending laterally to a raised papillose ridge, the 

 anterior prolongation of either raphe, which separates it by a narrow 

 space from the much thinner simple margin of the mantle, which is 

 continuous with the epidermis. The tissue of which this encircling 

 membrane is composed is thick ; within the aperture, extending a 

 little behind it, on each side is a sort of curtain whose office 

 apparently might be to close around the foot and prevent the influx 

 of sand or mud. The anterior ends of these curtains do not reach 

 as far forward (by a distance about equal to a third of their whole 

 length) as the anterior commissure of the pedal opening. On open- 

 ing the mantle-cavity we are first struck by the immense size of the 

 labial palps; the anterior or external palpus is adnate throughout 

 the greater part of its extent upon the inner surface of the mantle; 

 only a small anterior border and its lateral tips being free. It is 

 radiately striate, with transverse close-set lamellae on its free mar- 

 gin. The lower or posterior palpus is very thick and cellular, with 

 a lamellar gill-like surface internally, but smooth on its outer face. 

 It is produced laterally into long slender points which extend back- 

 ward further than the pedal opening. It is not muscular, at least 

 to any great extent, and is supported by the apophyses proceeding 

 from under the beaks of the shell ; these processes are buried in its 

 substance, though their distal margins also penetrate the visceral 

 mass internally for a short distance beyond the palpi. The foot 

 may be said to form the ventral face of the whole visceral mass ; it is 

 flattened, laterally carinated and terminates behind in an acute free 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES <>K PHILADELPHIA. 275 



tip near the siphonal opening. Its margins are smooth and .simple. 

 < Opposite the pedal opening a part of the foot is produced and thick- 

 ened, anteriorly sharp edged, rounded behind, and having a spongy 

 sole with a small deep (glandular?) sinus near its anterior end ; this 

 portion some observers would probably regard as constituting the 

 whole foot, but to me the view that it represents something analogous 

 to the pedal disk of Pecten, seems more natural. In the sinus above 

 the posterior end of the foot (as above defined) and in the median 

 line, is a slender subcylindrical process (about 5*0 mm. long as con- 

 tracted in spirits) probably a sensory organ like that of Yoldia. 

 Directly behind this is the atrium of the incurrent siphon, a small 

 chamber hermetically roofed by the branchia which are united by 

 a thin membrane so as to entirely cut off the branchial from the 

 anal chamber. This membrane is continuous with, or firmly 

 attached to, the siphonal septum. Directly behind the chamber 

 the passage-way or tube of the siphon contracts, though there seem- 

 to be no curtain valve. The branchia terminate at the anterior end 

 of the siphonal septum. The gills fall in two double lamellae on 

 each side. The inner gill is a simple elongated flattened sac, the 

 outer one has its inner wall dependent, then, at the distal edge, 

 folded back upon itself and continued upward, dorsally, beyond the 

 point of starting, so that the free edge forms a narrow "appendix." 

 The viscera present no special points of interest. There is a large 

 " hyaline stylet " which is contained in a larger chamber extending 

 nearly to the front end of the foot. The other end of the stylet is 

 attenuated, sharply bent, and projects into the cavity of the 

 stomach. The visceral mass is large, the intestine much convoluted, 

 the anus projecting, large, involute and cupshaped, constricted be- 

 hind the " cup." The anterior adductor is normal but feeble ; the 

 muscle passes from the reflected shell margin in one side straight 

 across to the other. The posterior adductor is oval in section and 

 considerably stronger. In the right valve is a slender, prominent, 

 compressed fossette carrying a small thin, internal cartilage, which 

 is attached to the opposite valve upon a small sharp not-excavated 

 shelly process. This remnant of the original cartilage may assist in 

 keeping the valves attached to one another, though it is very feeble, 

 but it has wholly lost its original function of an elastic cushion to 

 prevent the too sudden or rude closing of the valves. It is doubt- 

 ful if the thin shred of horny epidermis behind the beaks in this 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



species is a remnant of the original ligament or a mere epidermal 

 extension. 



The length of the contracted specimen examined was 270"0 mm. 

 It was obtained on the Florida coast. 



Very different in some particulars is the macroscopic anatomy of 

 ZirpJuea crispata of which a specimen, measuring in its contracted 

 state 260.0 mm., is before me. It was obtained by Dr. R. E. C. 

 Stearns, in Puget Sound, Washington Territory. In this species the 

 si phonal tube is covered with a dehiscent thin papery epidermis, as 

 in Mya. and is about three times as long as the rest of the animal, 

 proportionally thicker, more cylindrical and consequently more 

 bluntly pointed than in P. costata. There are no important differ- 

 ences in the pedal opening where the curtain is close to, if not 

 coalescent with, the margin of the mantle. The ventral portion of 

 the visceral mass is not flattened and marginated, as in P. costatus, 

 but is produced into a point behind. Above this point there is no 

 sensory appendicle. The palpi are much as in P. costatus and 

 similarly supported by the umbonal apophysis on each side, but the 

 lower or inner palpus is much less fleshy. The gills join behind the 

 body but the junction is not floored across and hence there is no- 

 separation of the anal and branchial chambers, nor does the siphonal 

 septum make its appearance where the siphon begins. On the con- 

 trary the siphon incloses but a single tube and only at about the 

 distal third of its length does any division or partition appear. All 

 this distance the somewhat attenuated gills extend, nearly filling the 

 tube, and united at their bases. The gills on each side consist of a 

 W-shaped pair of sacs, but the outer stem of the W is not produced 

 into an appendicular lamella as in P. costatus. The anus is thin- 

 edged with a valvular infolding of the edge but less cup-shaped than 

 in P. costatus. Following the line which would have been taken by 

 the siphonal septum, had it existed, are two double-edged, little- 

 elevated ridges. It is probable that the stem of the gills so ex- 

 panded in life as to conduct the effete products of the intestine to 

 the anal tube of the siphon without allowing them to come in con- 

 tact with the respiratory face of the gills. Taken as a whole 

 Zirphaxi seems more modified than Pholas and shows fewer traces 

 of the Myacean type from which both are probably descended. 



I have not found a description of the soft parts of these two 

 species, after some search in the text books, and so have thought it 

 well to put them on record. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



ON THE ANATOMY OF AEROPE AND ZINGIS. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



I am indebted to Mr. John Ponsonby of London, for alcoholic 

 specimens of a number of South African land-mollusks from which 

 the following anatomical notes are drawn. 



AEROPE Albers. 



The genus Aerope was founded on purely conchological characters 

 "by Albers and classed with the Helices, between Mierophysa and 

 Pella? 



Morch, in 1865, having dissected a specimen of the type and only 

 species of the genus, H. caffra Fer., placed it in the Agiiatha, 2 com- 

 menting upon the enormous size of the radula, with subulate, 

 elongated teeth disposed in converging lines. From an examination 

 of the animal of Helix knysnaensis of Pfeiffer, I am strongly inclined 

 to refer it to Aerope. My specimens having been in strong spirit 

 are much contracted, so that the following description is necessarilv 

 in) perfect. 



Aerope knysnaensis Pfr. (PI. ix. figs, a. b, c, i>). 



The shell is thin but strong, somewhat translucent, yellow, more 

 or less deeply tinged with green. Its surface is very bright and 

 polished, rather coarsely obliquely irregularly striate. There is 

 considerable variation in the contour of these shells, my figure d 

 representing an extremely elevated form. 3 



The foot (PL ix, figure j) is rather short, truncated anteriorly and a 

 trifle produced at the anterolateral angles. The sole is (in my con- 

 tracted specimens) transversely wrinkled, and although there is 

 no division into longitudinal tracts, the central part is lighter colored. 

 There are no furrows above the lateral margins, nor is there a pos- 

 terior mucous pore. The upper surface is coarsely granular. 



The buccal mass (PI. ix, fig. J, b.) is almost as long as the foot ; 

 longer than in any genus with which I am acquainted. The radula 

 is correspondingly elongated. The formula of teeth is about 27-1- 



1 Die Heliceen, 2d edition, p. S3. Type, H. caffra Fer. 



2 Journal de Conchyliologie, 1865, p. 395. Morch says : " J'ai eu occasion 

 d'examiner un animal desseche, dans lequel j'ai pu constater le presence d'un 

 appareil lingual relativement colossal, pourvu de dents subulees tres-longues, et 

 disposees en lignes convergentes." 



3 See Pfeififer's description, Monographia, i, p. S4. The figures in the 

 ' Concbylien Cabinet' are very unsatisfactory. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



27. The rhachidian tooth (fig. e, r) is small, narrow, subulate, with 

 well -developed cusp. Its base differs in form from the correspond- 

 ing part in Streptaxidce, Oleacinidce, or Selenitidce, being produced 

 into two slender diverging branches. The lateral teeth are all of 

 purely 'aculeate' form, and increase in size from the first to the 

 twelfth, which is enormously developed. The teeth lying outside of 

 the twelfth are apparently functionless ; they are minute, and 

 decrease in size rapidly toward the outer edge of the radula. All of 

 the teeth have distinct basal-plates. The cusps seem simply sabre- 

 shaped when lying in a natural position ; in figure F, I have drawn 

 the third, fourth and fifth teeth seen partly in profile. The affinities . 

 of the genus seem to be with Rhytida, judging from the characters 

 of the radula, differing from that genus in the retention of a well- 

 developed rhachidian tooth. * A complete half-row of teeth is shown 

 in figure e. 



The genitalia (PI. ix, fig. g) present no characters unusual in the 

 Agnatha, bearing a closer resemblance to those of Glandina than to 

 any other form known to me. Like Glandina the penis is rather 

 slender, the vas deferens inserted at its apex, and forming a 

 continuation of the former organ. The ovotestis is formed of a com- 

 pact mass of club-shaped ccecre about thirty-five in number. The 

 hermaphrodite duct is considerably convoluted and short between 

 the ovotestis and the albumen gland. Its lower portion ( " vagina ") 

 is convoluted or twisted several times upon itself. The duct of the 

 spermatheca (again as in Glandina) is very long, inserted high upon 

 the oviduct, and terminates in a small oval receptaculum seminis. 

 The genital orifice is very near the head. 



ZINGIS, von Martens. 



Zingis was proposed for a South African Naninoid species with 

 the following characters: "shell heliciform with simple peristome; 

 hinder extremity of the foot with mucous pore and a little prom- 

 inence above it ; jaw smooth, with median projection ; marginal teeth 

 of the radula bicuspidate." Type, Z. radiolata Mart., from near 



* See Hutton, Trans. New Zealand Institute, xvi, p. 167, pi. 10, figs, 

 s, R, Q. for dentition of Rhylida. Also Binney, Annals N. Y. Acad. Sciences 

 iii, p. 82, pi. xvii, fig. l. 



In the form of the central tooth, Aerope Knysnaetisis seems to be nearest to 

 certain species of Glandina. See Fischer et Crosse, Moll. Mex. et l'Amer. Cent., 

 pi. 4, fig. 10 (G. algira). Other species of Glandina have simply a narrow basal 

 plate, without cusp. From all Slreptaxida, Aerope differs in possessing distinct 

 basal plates to all of the teeth. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



Zanzibar. I find that a number of species referred by authors to 

 Albers' group Pella belong to Zingis or its immediate neighborhood. 

 Pella of Albers, Pfeiffer, Tryon and others, is a heterogeneous group, 

 composed of widely dissimilar elements. It cannot be properly 

 characterized until the anatomy ofJP. bisculpta Benson, its type, is 

 known. Of its other species, II. rarvplicata Bens. 2 belongs to true 

 Helix; H. vemieosa Krauss, seems to be a Rhytida; H. knysna- 

 ensis Pfr. belongs to Aerope ; H. natalensis Pfr. and a number of 

 other species to Zingis. 



It is likely that Zingis will be found to contain a number of 

 African species usually referred to Vitrina, such as V. poppigi Mke., 

 cornea Pfr., natalensis Pfr., ruppeliana Pfr., transvaalensis Craven ; 

 as well as a portion of the forms included by authors in Pella. 



Ariophanta i Zingis) natalensis Pfr. (PL ix, figs, h, i.) 



The shells of my specimens correspond with Pfeiffer's figures and 

 description. 4 The shell is so fragile that I found it almost im- 

 possible to remove the animal (hardened in spirit) without breaking 

 it. The foot (pi. ix, fig. i) is rather narrow and long, the sole in- 

 distinctly longitudinally tripartite. Above its lateral margins are 

 well-defined longitudinal furrows. The mucous pore is subtriangular, 

 and there is a short horn above it. 



The radula (pi. ix. fig. h) has teeth of similar form to those figured 

 by von Martens for Zingis radiolata, so far as I can judge from his 

 figures, which do not show the form of the basal plates of the mar- 

 ginal teeth. The rhachidian plate has three cusps with strongly 

 reflected cutting-points. The lateral teeth are similar except that 

 the inner cusp is suppressed. They number nine on each side. 

 The transition to marginals is formed by the elevation of the outer 

 cusp upon the side of the principal one, as is usual throughout 

 Ariophanta , (' Nanina' ). The marginal teeth are very numerous, 

 close-set, and are all of the form shown in figure H, even to the tiny 

 outermost ones. 



1 Monatsb. K. p. Akad. Wissenschaften zu Berlin, 1878, p. 290 ; and Zooi. 

 Record, 1878, Moll , p. 63. 



2 Binney, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., iii, p. 80. 



3 Binney, 1. c. p. 82. 



4 Monographia Heliceorum, i, p. 29; Conchylien Cabinet, Helix, pi. 29, 

 figs. 30-32. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



ORCADELLA OPERCULATA Wing., A NEW MYXOMYCETE. 

 BY HAROLD WINGATE. 



This curious minute plant presents anatomical characteristics 

 which lead me to propose a new family of the Myxomycetes, and 

 which, in Dr. Rostafinski's classification, would come under Order IV, 

 Anemeae, and after Family 13, Glathroptychiaceae. 

 ORCADELLACEAE, fam. nov. 



Sporangia without columella or capillitium, and the upper part of 

 the coarse sporangium wall replaced by a delicate membrane having 

 a defined outline. 



ORCADELLA, gen. nov. 



Sporangia with coarse stipes; sporangium wall likewise coarse, 

 but at the top of the sporangium replaced by a delicate membrane 

 which forms a more or less flattened deciduous lid. 



Orcadella operculata Wing., sp. nov. 



Sporangia stipitate, without columella or capillitium, very varia- 

 ble in form, barrel-shaped, urn -shaped, 

 vase-shaped, jar-shaped, ovoid or nearly 

 globose, or all varieties appearing in 

 one small group ; running from M. 

 0-05 to M. 0-25 in diameter by M. 01 

 to M. 0"3 in length. Stipe slightly 

 tapering, erect or bent, blackish, rough 

 and coarse from deposits of plasmodic refuse ; very variable in 

 height, from M. 0*375 to M. 1*25. Sporangium wall likewise coarse, 

 blackish, containing deposits of plasmodic refuse, but at the top 

 part of the sporangium replaced by a delicate, yellowish, iridescent, 

 lustrous or vernicose membrane which forms a flat or slightly 

 convex, circular deciduous lid, sometimes smooth, sometimes retic- 

 ulately wrinkled. Mass of spores yellowish. Individual spores 

 almost colorless, globose or irregularly roundish, smooth 8-11 mill, in 

 diameter. 



On the trunks of living red-oak trees (Quercus rubra). 

 Fairmount Park and Chestnut Hill, Philada., and also Maine 

 (Harvey). Type in Herb. Acad. Xat. Sci. Philada. 



This plant has been very common this year in Fairmount Park on 

 living red-oak trees, owing to the unusual amount of rain. It gener- 




188'.).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



ally grows in the fissures of the bark, where it is extremely difficult 

 to detect except in the sunlight ; but having found it, when the mem- 

 branaceous lid has a golden or coppery metallic luster, the plant may 

 readily be determined in the sunlight in the field with a hand-lens, 

 minute though the sporangium may be. This lid generally dehisces 

 and may occasionally be seen hanging to one side of the sporangium 

 by a mere point ; rarely it bursts in the center leaving a lacerated 

 fringe around the edge of the cup. When the plants are found 

 quite old and weather-beaten the cup frequently has a regular, well- 

 defined circular edge, but oftener it is collapsed. The sporangium wall 

 is often quite thin at the base, sometimes longitudinally wrinkled, 

 and under the microscope appears to be covered with minute gran- 

 ulations, regularly distributed, not unlike the manner of warting of 

 the spores of many species. The middle portion has the deposits of 

 plasmodic refuse. The accompanying cut gives the outlines of the 

 various forms of sporangium and stipe. The plant has frequently 

 been found associated with Orthotri'-hia microcephala Wing., and 

 enough of each was gathered to send to Mr. J. B. Ellis for his N. A. 

 F. Consequently an occasional sporangium of Orcadella operculata 

 may be found on the bark of the specimen of Orthotrichia microcephala 

 and vice versa. 



This family seems to bridge, to a certain extent, the gap between 

 Rostafinski's orders Anemeae and Heterodermeae, as we here have a 

 stage between the uniform wall of Licea, Tubulina, etc., and the 

 lacerate upper wall of some species of Oribraria where the receptacle 

 is strongly developed and covered with minute granulations. The 

 epispore seems to be absolutely without thickenings even under very 

 high magnification. 




282 proceedings of the academy of [1889. 



August 6. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



August 13. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Nine persons present. 



August 20. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



August 27. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Eight persons present. 



September 3. 

 Mr. Isaac C. Martindale in the chair. 



Six persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Lower Carbonic Gasteropoda from Burlington, Iowa." By- 

 Charles R. Keyes. 



" Sphserodoma : a Genus of Fossil Gasteropods." By Charles B. 

 Keyes. 



"The American Species of Polyphemopsis." By Charles R. 

 Keyes. 




1889.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 283 



September 17. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Six persons present. 



A paper entitled " Orcadella opereulata, Wing., a new Myxomy- 

 cete." By Harold Wingate, was presented for publication. 



The death of Dr. Addinell Hewson, a member, was announced. 



September 24. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Taxonomic Value of the Wing Mem- 

 brane and the Terminal Phalanges of the Digit in the Cheiroptera." 

 By Harrison Allen, M. D., was presented for publication. 



The death of Prof. Geo. H.Cook of Burlington, N. J., a corre- 

 spondent, was announced. 



Mr. Thomas Stewardson was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 




284 PROOEEi>rx<;s op the academy of [1889. 



LOWER CARBONIC GASTEROPODA FROM BURLINGTON, IOWA. 

 BY CHARLES R. KEYES. 



Inquiry has disclosed the remnants of an exceedingly rich and 

 varied fauna that, in the vicinity of the present city of Burlington, 

 Iowa, once tenanted the littoral zones of a vast Carbonic sea. The 

 peculiar lithologieal characters of the depositions are not, however, 

 conducive to the good preservation of the entombed animal remains; 

 and, for the most part, the vestiges of the gasteropoda are, in con- 

 sequence, almost entirely obliterated. Nevertheless, there have 

 been obtained a considerable number of shells the structural 

 characters of which are unimpaired and exhibit in a very satis- 

 factory manner all the generic and specific details. These reveal a 

 very suggestive chapter in the faunal history of the early Carbonic 

 over the broad interior basin. 



More than a quarter of a century has passed since the mollusca of 

 the Kinderhook and Burlington beds have elicited attention. The 

 early investigations of Hall, White and Winchell brought to light 

 numerous interesting forms, the greater portion of which were 

 collected in the immediate neighborhood of the locality mentioned. 

 But since the appearance of the original descriptions of the fossils 

 contained in these rocks, there has accumulated considerable 

 additional material, which elucidates some hitherto-obscure questions 

 relative to the zoological position of the various species and their 

 distribution in time and space. 



D. D. Owen l was the first to call attention, geologically, to the rocks 

 exposed at the city of Burlington. In his general stratigraphic section 

 of the region he distinguished the upper calcareous or "Encrinital" 

 layers from the lower shaly portions which he called the argillo- 

 calcareous group. His line of demarkation coincided approximately 

 with that of the present Kinderhook and Burlington divisions — 

 about fifteen feet above the fossiliferous sandstone. Owen correctly 

 referred these rocks to the age of the lower Carbonic. Shortly after 

 the appearance of the report on the geology of Wisconsin, Iowa and 

 Minnesota, Hall, 2 in his reconnaissance of eastern Iowa, referred the 

 arenaceous member (Kinderhook) to the Chemung and regarded as 

 synchronous the yellow sandstones at the mouth of Pine creek, 



1 Geol. Sur. Wis. Iowa and Minn., 1852, p. 91. . 



2 Geol. Iowa, Vol. I, p. 88, 1858. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Muscatine county, fifty miles to the northward. But later investiga- 

 tions prove conclusively, as recently remarked by Calvin, x that 

 the strata last mentioned are Hamilton sandstones and therefore 

 not continuous with the beds of similar composition farther south- 

 ward. White, 2 following Hall, also considered the lower portion 

 of the Burlington section as Chemung, but afterwards 3 concurred 

 with Meek and Wort hen 4 that it was not Devonic, but belonged 

 properly to the age following. Thus after nearly twenty years, the 

 original opinion of Owen relating to the correlation in time of the 

 arenaceous beds below the " Encrinital " limestone in southeastern 

 Iowa is finally sustained. 



The Lower Carbonic rocks at Burlington have already been 

 treated in detail by Hall and White whose remarks in the present 

 connection will require but little supplementary explanation. Also, 

 recently, "' the leading topographical and cenological features of the 

 district under consideration have been briefly presented in a prelim- 

 inary statement. 



A generalized section of the depositions in the immediate vicinage 

 of the city exhibits : 



Loess ......... 



Drift (lower till) 



Upper Burlington limestone and cherts 



Lower Burlington limestone and siliceous shales 



Kinderhook: calcareous layers .... 



Sandstone ....... 



Limerock ....... 



Blue clayey and sandy shales — exposed 



250 feet. 

 It is to be noticed that the stratigraphic rocks of Burlington pre- 

 sent a maximum exposed thickness of nearly two hundred feet, a 

 little more than one half of which may be regarded as Kinderhook. 

 Lithologically the strata of the lower member are made up chiefly 

 of bluish sandy shales which in some places pass into fine-grained 

 sandstones. Towards the superior limit of this division are several 



1 Am. Geol., vol. Ill, p. 25. 



2 Jour. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. VIII, p. 209 et seq. 

 s Geol. Iowa, Vol. I, p. 191. 1870. 



* Am. Jour. Sci., vol. XXXII, p. 177. 1861. 



5 Keyes : Am. Naturalist, vol. XXII, p. 1049 et seq. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



feet of gray, compact and oolitic limestones. The upper part of the 

 great arenaceous bed is charged with casts of brachiopod and 

 lamellibranch shells ; it also contains a number of gasteropods and a 

 few pteropods. A similar sandstone ten feet above presents like 

 fauna! peculiarities. The fossils of the calcareous layers are usually 

 in an excellent state of preservation, especially those occurring in 

 the oolites: and it is from the latter that the most satisfactory 

 material for serial comparisons is obtained. 



The Burlington limestone is pre-eminently crinoidal in its com- 

 position. It includes also several extensive beds of siliceous shales 

 and cherts. The greater portion of this division is composed of thick- 

 and thin-bedded limerock, the layers of which are frequently 

 separated by clayey or sandy partings. Alternating with the firmer 

 strata are often great beds of coarse friable rock made up almost 

 wholly of the disjointed and comminuted skeletal remains of 

 echinoderms. In all observable characters — stratigraphic, faunal 

 and lithologic — the two member- of the Lower Carbonic at Burling- 

 ton present a very marked contrast, The most distinctive feature, 

 perhaps, is the great preponderance of crinoidal remains in the upper 

 part ; while in the lower, or Kinderhook, there are but few traces 

 of the feather stars. 



Attempts have been made at various times to subdivide the 

 Burlington limestone into upper and lower sections; the chief basis 

 for separation being the difference in the crinoid fauna? contained. 

 While in the ensemble there is a very noticeable dissimilarity in the 

 general expression of the species of the two divisions there is not, 

 as is claimed, a totally distinct group of forms in each. Recent 

 observations indicate that a considerable proportion of the species 

 in the Lower Burlington are also present in the Upper; and even pass 

 with some slight structural modifications into the Keokuk. With 

 the material already accumulated, the transit ionary relations of 

 the various species have been traced; and there appears to be but 

 little doubt that the respective fauna? of the two members were the 

 biologic successors of one another, at least in the region of south- 

 eastern Iowa. It has further been shown recently : that the limestone 

 of the continental interior, usually denominated the Burlington and 

 Keokuk, practically belong to a single epoch. 



Briefly summarized, the general faunal features as set forth in the 

 following pages indicate very different bathymetric conditions during 



i Kejes: Am. Jour. Sci., (3j, vol. XXXVIII, p. 186. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



the deposition of the Kinderhook and Burlington beds. When the 

 strata of the first were being laid down it would seem that in the 



vicinity of the present city of Burlington there was very shallow 

 water, which probably did not have, at all times, free connection 

 with the open sea. But in the succeeding epoch it is evident that 

 the depth of the oceanic expanse considerably increased at that 

 place. 



In the Kinderhook there is a notable absence of certain classes of 

 animal remains, principally crustaceans, echinoderms, corals, and 

 bryozoans; while in the Burlington these groups, excepting perhaps 

 the articulates, are well represented. On the other hand the mollusca 

 were particularly abundant in the lower, but of rare occurrence in 

 the upper, division. Bryozoa are rare ; brachiopoda abundant. The 

 cephalopoda are represented by several genera, but individually they 

 are not common ; none have been as yet observed in the superim- 

 posing layers. Of the pteropoda several species of Conularia have 

 been obtained. The lamellibranchiata are quite plentiful and with 

 the exception of two genera are not found in the limestones above. 

 The gasteropods include upwards of fifteen genera and fifty species. 

 But only two of the generic groups — Platyceras and Straparollus — 

 have thus far been recognized in the Burlington strata, in which 

 there occur eight species of the first genus and two of the second. 

 In the Upper Burlington Platyceras is especially common and 

 is often found attached to the ventral surfaces of crinoids. It i> 

 worthv of note that several of those shells observed adhering: to the 

 stalked echinoderms are specifically identical with certain Keokuk 

 Platycerata and that in both horizons the various forms of gasteropods 

 are associated with crinoids of similar anatomical construction. 

 Some of the species of Platyceras which are first known in the upper 

 Burlington became in the Keokuk very abundant, and widely 

 distributed geographically. It may also be remarked that the 

 Keokuk forms seem to follow the Burlington species in direct 

 biologic sequence ; but that between the Kinderhook and Burling- 

 ton no such close affinities are traceable in this genus. 



The Straparolli of the Burlington rocks are all angulated forms. 

 In .S'. lotus Hall there are two well defined angularities — one on the 

 upper side of the whorls ; the other on the under side. The 

 latter is usually more or less rounded ; but the former is generally 

 surmounted by a narrow carina which gives it additional prom- 

 inence. The upper surface of the volutions is flattened and the 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



spire depressed so as to be on a level with the outer turn, thus differ- 

 ing from S. roberti White, in which the spire is depressed considerably 

 below the upper surface of the last whorl, making the superior 

 carina very conspicuous. S. roberti appears to be the genetic successor 

 of S. lotus, but there is nothing to indicate that either species was 

 immediately derived from any of the Kinderhook forms, which are 

 all characterized by regularly rounded volutions. 



In the absence, from the Burlington beds, of the other generic 

 groups of gasteropods represented in the Kinderhook no further 

 comparisons of the forms from the two horizons can be made. How- 

 ever, as previously intimated, the general aspect of the molluscan 

 remains under consideration, from the lower division, points to the 

 existence over the region of a shallow secluded expanse of water 

 perhaps removed for the greater portion of the time from the im- 

 mediate influence of the great mediterranean sea that at this period 

 stretched away to the southward. 



I. Species from the Burlington Beds. 

 Platyceras cyrtolites McChesney. 



Platyceras cyrtolites McChesney, 1860. Desc. New Pake. Foss., p. 

 71. 



This form was originally described from the Burlington limestone 

 of Calhoun county, Illinois. It has recently been obtained from the 

 upper layers of the same horizon at Burlington, Iowa. At the latter 

 place it is quite rare ; and the shell is usually exfoliated. It appears 

 to have its nearest affinities in certain forms of the superimposing 

 Keokuk beds. 



Platyceras equilaterum Hall. 



Platyceras equilaterum Hall, 1859. Geol. Iowa, vol. I, Supp., p. 

 89. 



Platyceras equilaterum Meek and Worthen, 1873. Geol. Sur. 

 Illinois, vol. V, p. 518. 



Platijceras equilaterum Keves, 1888. Proc. Am. Philosophical 

 Soc, vol. XXV, p. 236. 



This species is one of the most characteristic gasteropods of the 

 Keokuk limestone. In the upper Burlington rocks it has lately 

 been found attached to the ventral surface of Gi/bertsocritius typus 

 (Hall). The sedentary habits of the members of this genus have 

 been fully discussed elsewhere and need not he considered here. 

 Suffice it, that fifteen species of this group have been observed on the 

 calyces of various crinoid-, particularly those having a more or 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



Less depressed or flattened dome. Like all the individuals resting 

 on Hat crinoidal vaults, the shells of this species, when thus situated, 

 are very much more depressed than in the normal specimens. The 

 following summary of the habits of certain Platycerata may he here 

 restated: (1) many species of Platyceras were stationary during 

 life ; (2) the nourishment of these gasteropods was derived in part, 

 at least, from the excrementitious matter of the echinoderms to 

 which they were attached ; (3) the surface of attachment governs in 

 great measure the form of the shell and the shape of its aperture. 

 From the evidence at hand it is probable that the genus in America 

 did not survive beyond the close of the Paleozoic. 



Platyceras fissurella Hall. 



Platyceras fissurella Hall, 1859. Geol. Iowa, vol. I, Supp., p. 

 90. 



Platyceras fissurella Meek and Worthen, 1873. Geol. Sur. Illinois, 

 vol. V, p. 529. 



The srecies under consideration was first obtained from the 

 Keokuk rocks at Nauvoo, Illinois ; but it appears also to be rep- 

 resented in the upper Burlington. As shown conclusively by Meek 

 and Worthen the apical portion is not perforated naturally, as 

 supposed by Hall ; the opening at the apex being merely an 

 accidental fracture. 



Platyceras infundibulum Meek and Worthen. 



Platyceras sub red ion Hall, 1859. Geol. Iowa, vol. I, Supp., p. 89 

 I pre-occupied I. 



Platyceras infundibulum Meek and Worthen, 1866. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., Phil.', p. 266. 



Platyceras infundibulum Keyes, 1888. Proc. Am. Philosophical 

 Soc, vol. XXV, p. 238. 



The form for which Hall proposed the name P.subrectum, in the 



supplement to the Iowa report, was altered by Meek and Worthen 



to P. infundibulum, the first term having been preoccupied. Like 



P. equilaterum this species is widely distributed over the interior 



basin, chiefly through the Keokuk rocks. In the upper Burlington 



limestone it has been found adhering to the anal side of Eucladocrinus 



millebrachiatus W. and Sp. The blue Keokuk shales of Crawfords- 



ville, -Indiana, have afforded for study an extensive series of this 



species ; and the effect of its station in changing the shape of the 



shell and in giving rise to the great diversity of forms observed, has 



been very satisfactorily made out. 



20 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Platyceras latum Keyes. 



Platyceras latum Keyes, 1888. Proc. Am. Philos. Soc, vol. 

 XXV, p. 242. 



A broad depressed form from the upper Burlington limestone. 

 In this shell there are no folds or imbricating lines of growth 

 observable; and it is very probable that the habits of this speeies 

 differed somewhat from its nearest relative P. equilaterum. It is of 

 rare occurrence, though associated forms are quite common. 



Platyceras obliquum Keyes. 



Platyceras obliquum Keyes, 1888. Proc. Am. Philosophical Sue., 

 vol. XXV, p. 241. 



A rather large robust species, which, like the majority of the 

 raolluscan shells from the white limestones of the upper Burlington 

 division, is usually exfoliated ; and crumbling quickly away, it leaves 

 only the internal easts. 



Platyceras quincyense MeChesney. 



Platyceras quincyense MeChesney, 1861. Desc. New Foss., p. 

 90. 



Platyceras ijuiucyense Meek and Worthen, 1868. Geo!. Sur. 

 Illinois, vol. Ill, p. 510. 



Not uncommon in the upper Burlington; and sometimes found 

 resting on the vault of Physetocrhuis ventricosus (Hall). One of the 

 most important distinctive features assigned to this species is its 

 peculiar quinquelobate appearance ; but the real cause of the five 

 broadly rounded lobes did not suggest itself until the discovery of an 

 individual adhering to the dome of a erinoid in which the inter- 

 radial areas were considerably depressed, leaving the ambulacra 

 rather highly elevated. The growing margin of the gasteropod 

 shell, in following the inequalities of the surface upon which it rested, 

 gradually assumed the lobate form. 



Platyceras tribulosum White. 



Platyceras tribulosum White, 1883. 12 th. Ann. Rept. U. S. Geol. 

 Sur. Ter., pt. i, p. 168. 



First known from this locality, where it is found in the upper beds 

 of the Burlington limestone. It is one of the few spiniferous species 

 from the American paleozoic rocks ; and differs from P. biserale 

 Hall, of the same horizon, chiefly in having three, instead of two, 

 longitudinal rows of spines. These appendages, though seldom 

 preserved entire, are long, slender and tubular. It may be added 




188!*.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



that the type is somewhat deformed and is not a characteristic repre- 

 sentative of the species. 



Straparollus roberti (White). 



Euomphalus roberti White, 18(32. Jour. Boston Soc. Xat Hist., 

 vol. IX, p. 22. 



This species is very closely allied to S. lotus (Hall). It is, how- 

 ever, somewhat smaller, with the spire depressed below the upper 

 surface of the body whorl. The superior flattened area is inclined- 

 inwardly thus making the outer carina more prominent .than in 

 Hall's species. This form was described from the upper beds, and 

 occurs in the massive white limestone layers. It is, probably, the 

 genetic successor of S. lotus of the lower Burlington; and has 

 undergone but slight modifications in structure. 



There has always been a considerable diversity of opinion as to 

 the real relations of Euomphalus Sowerby and Straparollus Montfort. 

 The two groups have commonly been regarded as generically distinct, 

 hut equally good reasons have been advanced for considering them 

 synonymous, and some writers even go so far as to unite both with 

 Solarium Lamarck. Whatever may he the final decision in regard 

 to the genera established by Sowerby and Montfort, there appears, at 

 present, no reliable criteria by which a satisfactory separation can 

 be made of the planorbicular forms with angulated whorls and those 

 having the spire somewhat elevated and the volutions rounded. 

 Although the extreme representatives of the two are apparently 

 very distinct, the individuals are so variable and the gradations so 

 complete, even among those of the same species, that the generic 

 limits usually assigned are not tenable. Euomphalus is typified by 

 such forms as E. pentagonus Sowerby; Straparollus by S. dionyxii 

 Montfort. Among the Burlington series the first section is, perhaps, 

 best represented by Hall's Euomphalus latus, in which the depressed 

 -spire is nearly on a level with the body whorl. The upper surface 

 of the latter, being flattened, gives rise to two rather pronounced 

 angularities. The type of the second section has its best analogue 

 in S. macromphalus. But there are numerous transitionary forms 

 which are regularly rounded below and with only one carina above 

 or having the angularities very much rounded and in some instances 

 1 »;i rely perceptible. The spire, which is considerably elevated in some 

 species, in others becomes more and more depressed — even below the 

 level of the upper surface of the last volution. A number of other 

 generic names have been proposed which seem to be identical with 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Straparollus ; but these require no consideration in the present 

 connection. 



In the majority of cases the carina? or angular prominences on the 

 whorls of the Burlington Straparolli appear to be simply thickenings 

 of the shell at those points. The internal transverse section is 

 circular, as shown when the shell is removed from the matrix form- 

 ing the cast of the inside. Some species have a thickened shell, 

 with the whorls barely in contact, or even separated toward the 

 aperture. In instances of this kind the internal casts have much the 

 appearance of some of the forms for which Sowerby established the 

 genus Phanerotinux. But with the latter have evidently been included 

 a number of evolute Straparolli. 



Straparollus latus (Hall). 



Euomphalus latus Hall, 1858. Geol. Iowa, vol. I, p. 605. 



Shell rather large, discoid, composed of four to five rather rapidly 

 enlarging volutions, plane above ; spire nearly on a level with 

 the upper surface of the outer whorl ; suture impressed ; deeply and 

 broadly umbilicate ; aperture nearly circular, flattened above. The 

 broad flattened area occupying the upper surface of the volutions is 

 bordered on each side by a distinct carina, the inner being near the 

 sutural line. Below the outer ridge are sometimes two scarcely 

 perceptible angularities — one around the periphery and the other 

 along the middle of the whorls below. The latter, as shown in 

 young specimens, is often well defined, but after the shell has become 

 half-grown the obtuse prominence becomes obscured. In some 

 specimens the ridge above the periphery is so pronounced as to leave 

 a narrow concave area immediately beneath. Straparollus latus is 

 the most characteristic form of the genus occurring in the Burling- 

 ton, but it is not very common. It attains a maximum diameter of 

 eight centimeters. 



Metoptoma t umbella Meek and Worthen. 



Metoptoma (Platyceras f) umbella Meek and Worthen, 1866. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Ph'ila., p. 267. 



Metoptoma? umbella Meek and Worthen, 1868. Geol. Sur. 

 Illinois, vol. Ill, p. 506. 



The generic relations of this and several similar forms from the 

 Lower Carbonic .rocks of the Mississippi basin are not clearly 

 understood. The species in question do not appear to properly be- 

 long to Metoptoma, as originally characterized by Phillips, in the 

 Geology of Yorkshire, and as typified by his M. pileus and M. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



oblongata. Though some recent writers have greatly extended the 

 limits of the genus and embraced a variety of other shells, it would 

 seem that this enlargement of the generic group is of very question- 

 able utility. It is very possible that this is the same form as that 

 di scribed by Hall as Platyeeras cupulas, in which case the latter 

 term takes precedence. 



II. Species from the Kixderhook Beds. 

 Naticopsis depressa Winchell. 



Naticopsis depressa Winchell, 1863. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 22. 



No authentic examples from the lower beds of the Burlington 

 section have come under notice, though the collections include 

 several casts which may belong here. If this inference is correct 

 the species certainly presents characters which differ very essentially 

 from the typical forms of the genus. 



As originally established by McCoy, in 1844, Naticopsis embraced 

 certain paleozoic shells, the best American exemplification of which, 

 perhaps, is the form described by Norwood and Pratten as Natlca 

 ventrieosa from the Coal Measures. The most characteristic shells 

 of the genus are therefore comparatively thin, with the spire very 

 small and short ; the outer labrum thin, as is also the callosity of the 

 inner lip ; the last whorl usually more or less noticeably flattened or 

 slightly concave on the upper half and ornamented towards the 

 suture by numerous, small, short, equidistant cost* parallel to the 

 lines of growth; surface otherwise smooth. A number of species 

 have been erroneously referred to the genus, while some others 

 described under different generic titles must evidently be transferred 

 to this group. There are, perhaps, a dozen valid species of Naticopsis 

 now known from the American paleozoic rocks. 



Platystoma bivolve (White anil Whitfield). 



Platyeeras bivolve White and Whitfield, 1862. Pi-oc. Boston Soc. 

 Xat. Hist., vol. VIII, p. 302. 



The recognition of this genus in the lowest division of the Carbonic 

 is of considerable interest, as this is the second American species 

 recorded above the Devonian. A recent examination of the type 

 specimens reveals a very noticeable departure of this form from 

 Platyeeras, and particularly from the immature shells of Platyeeras 

 ventricosmn Conrad, with which it has been compared. The spire in 

 P. bivolve is much more elevated than in the other specie.-, while 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



the inner lip is much thickened, reflexed and anchylosed to the 

 body volution. The form under consideration is with considerable 

 difficulty distinguishable from some individuals of Platystoma 

 niagarense , Hall, notwithstanding the wide separation of the 

 respective horizons of the two species. 



Platystoma as defined by Conrad included those subglobose Natica- 

 like gasteropods, in which the labrnm joined the body whorl at 

 right angles to the axis of the shell. The group is typified by P. 

 ventricosum, but it is very evident that several species have been 

 assigned to the genus, the correct reference ofwhich is very question- 

 able. In an extensive series of a single species, such as may be 

 obtained of P. niagarense at Waldron, Indiana, the shells show an 

 interesting gradation from those precisely like the types to in- 

 dividuals in which the lip is entirely separated from the body 

 whorl, and in some instances the last volution has uncoiled for a 

 considerable distance. These partially evolute forms often approach 

 closely certain Platycerata, and it is very likely that a more careful 

 study of the latter will disclose a nearer relationship betweea the 

 members of the two groups than has heretofore been generally 

 suspected. This tendency of the volutions to uncoil is also very 

 apparent in several Upper Carbonic species of Naticopsis, as well 

 as in various individuals of allied genera. 

 Platyceras cornuforme Winehell. 



Platyceras cornuforme Winehell, 18(53. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., p. 18. 



This is one of the smallest forms of the genus occurring in the 

 lower Carbonic rocks. It has a wide geographic range in the 

 Kinderhook beds, being found not only at Burlington, but also at 

 Lodi and other localities in Ohio. 



P. vomerium Winehell, described from the same horizon has been 

 found only in the form of internal casts in sandstone ; and its 

 specific relations cannot at present be satisfactorily made out, 



Platyceras paralium White and Whitfield. 



Platyceraa jiaralium White and Whitfield, 1802. Proc. Boston 

 Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. VIII, p. 302. 



Examples have been seen from the Kinderhook beds at Le Grand, 

 Marshall county, and Burlington, Iowa; also from Lodi, Ohio. .V 

 careful examination of the type specimens shows that the shell is 

 composed of more than two volutions instead of one, as stated in the 

 original description. The spire, however, is remarkably slender, 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



closely incurved but not contiguous. "When partially embedded in 

 the matrix the apical portions are usually not visible, thus giving it 

 the appearance of the obliquely conical forms, whereas it actually 

 belongs to the typical section of the genus. In the type the longitu- 

 dinal plications are much more prominent than in a representative 

 .specimen of the species, while in some forms the longitudinal folds 

 are nearly obsolete. Immature shells are laterally compressed and 

 the surface is perfectly glabrate, with no indications whatever, of . 

 plications or imbricating lines of growth. As the individuals 

 became larger the aperture becomes relatively more expanded and 

 assumes a subcircular outline. 



Straparollus macromphalus Winchell. 



Straparollus maeromphalas "Winchell, 1863. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., p. 20. 



Shell of medium size, composed of about four regularly rounded 

 volutions ; spire somewhat elevated ; suture moderately impressed ; 

 umbilical cavity rather deep ; aperture circular. 



The spire in this species is more elevated than in any other con- 

 generic form from the vicinity of Burlington, except, perhaps, S. 

 barrisi "Win., with which, if recent determinations are correct, it may 

 prove synonymous. It has close affinities to Straparollus (Euom- 

 phalus) cyclostomut (Hall), from the Iowa Devonic rocks at Iowa 

 City. Among foreign species it bears a striking resemblance to S. 

 eostellatus Sowerby? The form under consideration appears to be the 

 most common species of the genus found in the locality, coming 

 from the upper calcareous layers of the Kinderhook. 



Straparollus barrisi Winchell. 



Straparollus barrisi "Winchell, 1863. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 20. 



This species is closely related to S. maeromphalas "Winchell. It 

 appears to differ in having three barely perceptible angularities on 

 the body whorl, and the spire slightly more depressed. It is from the 

 arenaceous layers of the Kinderhook. 



Straparollus (Euomphalus) amnion. (White ami "Whitfield), de- 

 scribed from the Kinderhook beds of the same locality, has not 

 been noted recently. It is a small form and said to have its closest 

 affinities with S. (Euomphalus) spergenensis (Hall) from the "War- 

 saw. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Straparollus obtusus (Hall). 



Euomphalus obtusus Hall, 1858. Geol. Iowa, vol. I, p. 523. 



Shell large, planorbiform, composed of five to six regularly 

 rounded volutions; spire on a level with, or slightly below, the 

 upper surface of the last whorl; suture very deeply impressed; 

 upper face of the volutions very slightly flattened on the inner side 

 near the suture; umbilicus very broad and shallow; aperture 

 circular. 



This form was the first of the group recognized from the neighbor- 

 hood of Burlington, and is the most characteristic gasteropod of the 

 Kinderhook at that place. It occurs in the oolitic layer a few feet 

 below the Burlington limestone, and is easily distinguished from 

 all the congeneric species of the locality by its large size — often 

 having a diametric measurement of six centimeters, — its greatly de- 

 pressed spire, broad shallow umbilicus and regularly rounded 

 whorls. In many examples of this species the volutions are barely 

 in contact with one another, and in a few instances the outer whorl, 

 toward the aperture, has actually become separated from the 

 adjoining inner turns. This fact is of special interest as illustrating 

 the first noticeable departure toward certain evolute Straporolli 

 which have been referred to Phanerotinus of Sowerhy. 



From the associated beds Winchell has described a gutta-percha 

 cast, taken from natural moulds in friable sandstone, as Phanerotinus 

 paradoxus. One of the specimens figured by Hflll (Pake. N. Y., V, 

 ii, pi. 16, fig. 16), shows the inner volutions still contiguous, while the 

 outer whorls are not separated further than very similar casts of un- 

 doubted S. obtusus. 



Sphaerodoma pinguis (Winchell). 



Macrochilus pingue Winchell, 1863. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 21. 



The specimens which evidently represent the group formerly 

 known as Macrochilus are merely imperfect casts from the arenaceous 

 beds of the Kinderhook, and their systematic position can at best 

 only be surmised. But unsatisfactory as the material is, it is of con- 

 siderable interest to find in America the genus present so early in 

 the Carbonic. Several American Devonic forms have been described 

 under Macrochilus, but with perhaps one or two exceptions, they 

 have been very imperfect and in most cases merely internal casts. In 

 Europe, however, Macrochilus is equally well represented in the 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



Devonic and Carbonic, while in this country the genus is confined 



chiefly to the latter. 



Murchisonia prolixa White and Whitfield. 



Murchisonia prolixa White and Whitfield, 1862. Proc. Boston 

 Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. VIII, p. 303. 



A very characteristic, though not common, shell from the oolitic 



hands of the upper Kinderhook. It is usually found in a more or 



less fragmentary condition and the structural features are there- 



fore seldom well shown. The whorls are eight to twelve in 



number, slightly convex, with a broad obtuse angularity centrally. 



The surface is ornamented by small well-defined revolving costa?, or 



ihread-like lines, the one passing along the middle of the whorls 



leing the most pronounced, while those below the median one are 



considerably smaller than those above. 



Three other species from this locality have been referred by 

 Vinehell to Murchisonia, but all are more or less imperfect and their 

 trie affinities uncertain. The first of these, 31. quadricincta, is said 

 tn be characterized by four small costa- below the revolving band. 

 Tie other two are 31. neglecta and M. shumardiana. 



Belerophon bilabiatus White and Whitfield. 



Jtellerophon bilabiatus White and Whitfield, 1802. Proc. Boston 

 Sod Nat. Hist., vol. VIII, p. 304. 



Specimens of this species have recently been obtained in white 

 silic\ous nodules. The deeply and broadly emarginate lip, the 

 nearv glabrate surface and a sharp narrow median carina readily 

 distiiguish this form from the associated species of the genus. 



Bellerphon panneus White. 



Betfrophon panneus White, 1862. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat Hist,, 

 vol. 1%, p. 21. 



She! globose, composed of three or four gradually enlarging 

 volutiois, which are visible in the rather small, very deep umbilici ; 

 periphey somewhat flattened, with a very prominent longitudinal 

 carina : he surface marked by sharp, equidistant costa passing 

 transverftly across the whorls from the larsre median ridge: 

 transversa carina? more or less undulating and irregular, bending 

 forward sightly as they leave the central prominence; finer lines of 

 growth arevisible between the costa 2 . This species bears a striking 

 resemblanc to B. tangentialis Phillips from the Carbonic clays of 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Tournai, Belgium. The transverse ribs of the latter are, however, 

 slightly farther apart. 



Three additional species of Bellerophon have also been described 

 from Burlington. These are B. scriptifervs White, B. vinculatw 

 White and Whitfield, and B. perelegan* White and Whitfield. 



Metoptoma 1 undata Winchell. 



Metoptoma undata Winchell, 1865. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 131. 



A single specimen represented in the collections probably belongs 

 to this species. 



Porcellia crassinoda White and Whitfield. 



Poreettia crassinoda White and Whitfield, 18(32. Proc. Boston 

 Soc. Nat. Hist,, vol. VIII, p. 303. 



No traces of this group have been noticed recently, except portiors 

 of a large cast, probably belonging to this species. The other time 

 forms reported from the Burlington locality are P. obl'tquinoia 

 White, P. rectinoda Winchell, and P. nodosa Hall. 



Among the gasteropods that have been recorded from the rocksat 

 Burlington, but which have not been observed since the appearaice 

 of the original descriptions, are two species of Holopea — H. corica 

 and H. subconica, described by Winchell from the Kinderhook bids. 

 Associated with these two forms is a third diminutive shell, ap>ar- 

 ently belonging to the Turboniche— Holopella mira Winchell. A 

 cast in sandstone has received the name Loxoitema oligospira Vin- 

 chell. Dentalium grandozvum Winchell, a form said to resembe D. 

 venustum Meek and Worthen, is the only representative oi tins 

 group recognized from the locality. No specimens of Pletirotonaria 

 have been obtained lately. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF POLYPHEMOPSIS. 

 BY CHARLES R. KEYES. 



Portlock's generic term Polyphemopsis was introduced into the 

 literature of American Paleontology by Meek and Worthen, 1 who 

 referred to the genus the species described by Hall" in 1858 under 

 Bulimella, and also three additional forms, originally placed with 

 Loxonema and Eulima. A number of other American fossil gastero- 

 pods have from time to time been assigned to Portlock's genus. But 

 Polyphemopsis was founded on very imperfect material, and its 

 structural characters have never been sufficiently understood to 

 definitely limit the group. It seems to be regarded by the majority 

 of European writers as a synonym of Macrochitus Phillips. The 

 latter, however, has recently been shown to be identical with Solenis- 

 eu* Meek and Worthen, which has precedence over Phillips' pre- 

 occupied term. 



Although more than half a score of species have, in this country, 

 been referred to the genus, it is quite apparent that members of at 

 least two very different groups were included ; while a detailed com- 

 parison of the various representatives appears to indicate that, with 

 a few possible exceptions, no forms congeneric with Portlock's Poly- 

 phemopsis elongata, which may be regarded as the type of his genus, 

 have as vet been recognized, with any degree of certainty, in the 

 Paleozoic rocks of America. Until typical specimens of Poly- 

 phemopsis can be critically examined, the genus must be considered 

 as of very doubtful utility. 



As already stated there were embraced in this group such species 

 as constituted Hall's genus Bulimella. These perhaps best exemplify 

 the American forms of the section under consideration. The shells 

 are fusiform, with the spire elongated ; the whorls more or less 

 decidedly convex, the last rather large; the columella curved, 

 abbreviated or truncated at the base ; the inner lip often well denned 

 anteriorly, and usually separated from the outer by a more or less 

 well-marked notch ; surface smooth. Accordingly, this group would 

 include not only those forms originally comprehended under Buli- 

 mella but also the species hereafter enumerated, and perhaps a few 

 others now known under other generic titles. 



1 Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. II, p. '67-. 



2 Trans. Albany Ins., vol. IV, pp. 29-30. 




300 FKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Since, then, it is manifest that Polyphemopsis is not correctly 

 applicable to any known American gasteropods, and inasmuch as 

 Bulimella of Hall was preoccupied by Pfeiffer, it is necessary to find 

 some more appropriate term to designate this group. Bulimorpha, 

 established by Whitfield, is apparently the only available name 

 for the shells in question, but whether this title will eventually be 

 considered valid cannot now be fully decided. 



In connection with Polyphemopsis Conrad's genus Subulites has 

 frequently been alluded to, and by Lindstrom 2 and others the two 

 terms have been considered nearly or quite synonymous. The 

 validity of the latter group is however questionable. The type was 

 very imperfect, consisting only of a portion of the body whorl and 

 three or four of the preceding volutions — the upper portions ot the 

 spire and the apertural parts being entirely unknown. Strangely 

 enough, of more than a dozen species described under the genus there 

 is not a single one but that is fragmentary, or in the condition of 

 broken casts, indicating only the general shape of the shell. 



The following American forms have been referred to Polyphemopsis. 

 The group doubtless includes also several other Carbonic species de- 

 scribed under Loxonema and allied genera. 



Bulimorpha bulimiformis (Hall). 



Bulimella bulimiformis Hall, 1858. Trans. Albany Ins., vol. IV, 

 p. 29; Polyphemopsis bulimiformis Meek and Worthen, 1866, Geol. 

 Sur. Illinois, vol. II, p. 373; Bulimorpha bulimiformis Whitfield, 

 1882. Bui. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist,, vol. I, p. 74. Warsaw Limestone. 



Bulimorpha canaliculata (Hall). 



Bulimella canaliculata Hall, 1858. Trans. Albany Inst., vol. IV, 

 p. 29 ; Polyphemopsis canaliculata Meek and Worthen, 1866. Geol. 

 Sur. Illinois, vol II, p. 373; Bulimorpha canaliculata Whitfield, 

 1 882. Bui. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist,, vol. I, p. 74. Warsaw Limestone. 



Bulimorpha chrysalis (Meek ami Worthen). 



Polyphemopsis chrysalis Meek and Worthen, 1866. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 267 ; P. chrysalis M. and W., 1873. Geol. Sur. 

 Illinois, vol. V, p. 596. Lower Coal Measures. 



In the absence of specimens for examination the exact generic 

 relations of this form cannot with certainty be determined; but it 

 appears to have closer affinities to this than to any other group. It 

 resembles somewhat young shells of Soleniscus {Macrochilus) new- 



1 Bui. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. I, p. 74. 1882. 

 -Index to Generic Names of Gasteropoda Pake. Period. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 801 



berryi (Stevens) but according to Meek and Worthen it does not 

 exhibit the columellar fold so characteristic of that genus. 



Bulimorpha elongata (Hall). 



Bulimella elongata Hall, 1858. Trans. Albany Inst., vol. IV, p. 

 30; Polyphemopsis elongata Meek and Worthen (non Portlock), 

 1866. Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. II, p. 373; Polyphemopsis tereti- 

 formis Hall, 1877, Miller's Cat. Pake. Foss., p. 245 ; Bulimorpha 

 elongata Whitfield, 1882. Bui. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. I, p. 75. 

 Warsaw Limestone. 



Bulimorpha inornata (Meek Mini Worthen . 



Loxonema inornalum M. and \\\, 1860. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., p. 465 ; Polyphemopsis inornata M. and W., 1866. Geol. 

 Sur. Illinois, vol. II, p. 374. Upper Coal Measures. 



In specimens of this species recently examined the inner lip 

 appears to be quite variable, sometimes being very pronounced, 

 sometimes scarcely defined. 



Polyphemopsis keokuk Worthen, 1884. Bui. 2, Illinois State Cab. 

 Nat. Hist., p. 9. Keokuk Limestone. 



Described from casts in Limestone, too imperfect to deserve 

 recognition. Its true generic characters cannot therefore be made 

 out. 



Polyphemopsis louisvilla Hall and Whitfield, 1872. 23 Keg. 

 Rep. N. Y. State Cab., pi. xii. tigs. 1 and 2, desc. 24 Rep., p. 193. 

 P. knappi H. and W., in some copies of advance sheets of 23d report. 

 Upper Heldberberg. 



In the absence of an authentic specimen ist generic position can only 

 be surmised. It bears a close resemblance in some particulars to 

 Bulimorpha, but it may belong to another group along with several 

 of the so-called Macrochili, distinguished from the type by the 

 alleged absence of the fold on the columella. 

 Bulimorpha minuta (Stevens). 



Loxonema minuta Stevens, 1858. Am. Jour. Sci., (2) vol. XXV, 

 p. 260; Actceonina minuta Meek and Worthen, 1873. Geol. Sur. 

 Illinois, vol. V, p. 594; Acteeonina minuta Keyes, 1888. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 240. Lower Coal Measures. 



If the recent observations upon this species from Des Moines are 

 correct this form isatrue Bulimorpha having its closest affinities with 

 B. eanalieulata (Hall). In most specimens examined the inner lip 

 is well developed for half the length of the aperture, but appears to 

 be separated from the outer labium by a distinct notch. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Bulimorpha nitidula (Meek and Worthen). 



Loxonema nitidulum M. and W., 1860. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., p. 41!."); Polyphemopsis nitidula M. and W., 18(36. Geol. 

 Sur. Illinois, vol. II, p. 874. Upper Coal Measures. 



It seems very probable that this is the same form that was described 

 by Hall as Macrochilus fiisiforme and afterwards, in 1877, changed 

 to M. attenuatum. Should this inference be correct the latter must 

 be regarded a synonym of B. nitidula. Hall's type however was im- 

 perfect and the apertural characters not shown. The confusion has 

 been further increased by a general want of discrimination on the 

 part of some writers, between this and various varietal forms of 

 Soleniseus newberryi (Stevens). 

 Polyphemopsis peracuta Meek and Worthen. 



Eulima peracuta M. and W., I860. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 466 ; Polyphemopsis peracuta M. and W., 1866. Geol. Sur. 

 Illinois, vol. II, p. 375. Coal Measures. 



This species manifestly does not belong to the Bulimorpha group. 



At present, it appears that the original reference of this form to 



Eulima is probably correct. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



SPHJERODOMA: A GENUS OF FOSSIL GASTEROPODS. 

 BY CHARLES R. KEYES. 



It lias long been known that under Macrochilus of Phillips there 

 have been described a number of gasteropodous shells which differ 

 very essentially from the typical forms of the genus. And it has 

 even been intimated that this genus, as generally understood, may 

 comprise, in reality, several more or less well-marked divisions of 

 perhaps more than subgeneric value. In a recent note the differences 

 between the various groups were briefly considered and two well- 

 defined sections made out. At the same time it was shown that the 

 typical forms of Phillips' genus were generic-ally identical with those 

 of Soleniseus of Meek and Worthen. The two genera being co-ex- 

 tensive were therefore synonymous. The first of the two terms was. 

 however, pre-occupied and inasmuch as the several other titles, pro- 

 posed at various times, for shells of the same group were unavailable, 

 the generic term suggested by Meek and Worthen must necessarily 

 be substituted. 



In separating the genus from Macroehilus the authors of Soleniseus 

 emphasized certain structural features as being distinctive in their 

 group, but these characters are now known to be present in the 

 typical species of the genus first established. On account of being 

 more or less obscured by the adhering matrix, the peculiarities in 

 question appear to have been overlooked by most writers. Theassumed 

 absence, in the members of Phillips' genus, of these characters, and 

 their existence in the shells that were under immediate consideration 

 were regarded as sufficiently good reasons for the generic separation of 

 the two groups, and for the establishment of a new genus. A single 

 species only was originally assigned to Soleniseus. Miller 1 subse- 

 quently referred Macrochilus hallan urn Geinitz to this genus. Shortly 

 afterward White- described two congeneric forms from New Mexico 

 and also 3 included several of the Macrochili. More recently some 

 additional species of Macrochilus were transferred to Soleniseus. 



AVith two possible exceptions the described species hereafter 

 enumerated are confined to the Carbonic, the majority occurring in 

 the Coal Measures. Some of the forms are widely distributed 



i Cat. Am. Palse. Foss.,p. 162. 



- Expl. and Sur. w. 100 Merid., Supp., Vol. Ill, p. xxviii. 



3 Geol. Sur. Indiana, 13th Ann. Rept., p. 153, et seq. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



geographically, and a few have also a very considerable geologic 

 range. A number of the now recognized species will probably prove 

 to be identical with forms previously known, but these cannot be, 

 with certainty, determined except by a direct comparison of the 

 type specimens. The synonymy, however, of a portion of the 

 Macrochili lias been made out as indicated beyond. 



As already suggested the forms of this group appear to be easily 

 separable into two sections: the first typified by Macrochilus acutum 

 (Sowerby) and Soleniscus typieus Meek and Worthen; and the 

 second having for its typical representative Macrochilus ponderosum 

 Swallow. The shells of the first group are characterized by being 

 more or less elongate or fusiform, with the spire elevated, acute; 

 body whorl forming about half the length of the shell ; aperture 

 subelliptic, or oval, acutely angular posteriorly; columella im- 

 perforate, provided with a conspicuous revolving fold or ridge, 

 which, however, in the perfect specimen is often scarcely descernible 

 exteriorly, but as it passes inward becomes more and more pronounced 

 and is oftpn accompanied by a second, though much less prominent, 

 fold of similar character; test thick. 



The columellar ridge is in most examples usually hidden more or 

 less completely by the imbedding matrix filling the aperture. By 

 the removal of the outer lip the twisted fold becomes more apparent. 

 In a perfect specimen of Soleniscus newberryi (Stevens) this ridge is 

 scarcely defined at the aperture, but towards the interior of the 

 shell it gradually assumes greater prominence, becoming very much 

 elevated, very sharp, and bordered on each side by a broad rounded 

 canal, the outer of which is narrower and considerably deeper than 

 the other. On the inner margin of the second furrow there is often 

 developed an obtuse prominence much less conspicuous than the first 

 and best defined a short distance from the apertural margin. From 

 this point it soon becomes obsolete inwardly and finally disappears 

 altogether. In the majority of the forms referred to Soleniscus the 

 fold on the columella presents essentially the same characters, and 

 is generally well disclosed by breaking away the outer lip of the 

 shell slightly. When the exterior wall of the last whorl is entirely 

 removed the interior features of the columella are still better 

 exhibited and for a much greater distance. 



As generally recognized the Macrochilus group has a wide range 

 in time, beginning, according to the species described, in the 

 Silurian and continuing to the present time. Some of the forms 




Proc. Acad.Nat . Sci.Plula . 1889 



Plate VIII. 



400" ^S^ 



<x.- 



3V 



AH. del 



3ec.S"-Karri8&Scns UtrLPhila. 



HEILPRIN, NEW MOLLUSCA FROM THE BERMUDAS 





Proc.Acad KTat.Sci.Hula.1889 



Plate IX. 



.-it!)'" \\ 16 



Jr \\\\K 



V.. ": : y del . 



Oeo.S Harris&SoiLS Lith.Phala. , 



PILSBRYON AEHOPE AND ZINGIS. 





1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



have unquestionably been erroneously assigned to the genus. The 

 typical examples are for the most part from the Devonic and 

 Carbonic, and, although the group probably continued to flourish 

 after the close of the Paleozoic, it is very doubtful whether the 

 majority of the later forms can properly be regarded as congeneric. 

 In Europe the group became greatly expanded during the later 

 Devonic and Carbonic, but in America it is almost wholly confined to 

 the latter age, the other forms referred to the genus being, with 

 perhaps two or three exceptions, referable to other groups. 



Polyphemopsis of Portlock has commonly been considered synony- 

 mous with Macrochilus, but whether it can be regarded as identical 

 with the group as now defined cannot, at present, be satisfactorily 

 determined. Portlock's genus was founded upon such imperfect 

 material as to hardly deserve recognition in any case, and it would 

 probably simplify matters greatly to ignore the term altogether. 

 There appear to be no good grounds for assigning any American 

 gasteropods to Polyphemopsis. The species so referred have, in real- 

 ity, other generic affinities. 



The shells of the second section are subglobose, with the spire 

 relatively very small, short; the whorls convex, very rapidly expand- 

 ing, the last ventricose, and forming, by far, the greater part of the 

 shell; aperture oval; columella thickened, sometimes exhibiting 

 obsolete traces of an obtuse angularity; test comparatively much 

 thinner than in Soleniscus. Typified by Macrochilus ponderosum 

 Swallow and M. texanum Shumard. 



The enormous size of the body-whorl compared with the spire, and 

 the undeveloped columellar fold readily distinguish this form from 

 that of Soleniscus. In America the genus ranges from the Upper 

 Helderberg to the close of the Carbonic. From the evidence at 

 hand it appears that the species of this group were more strictly 

 marine in their habitat than the members of the first genus. 



For this group, as here defined, the term Sphcerodoma is proposed. 

 It is thought to embrace the following forms : — 



Sphaerodoma cooperensis (Swallow). 



Macrochilus cooperen.se Swallow, 1803. Trans. St. Louis Acad. 

 Sci., vol. II, p. 100. Kaskaskia limestone. 



Sphaerodoma littonana (Hall). 



Natica littonana Hall, 1858. Trans. Albany Inst., vol. IV, p. 30; 

 Naticopsis littonana Meek and Worthen, 18(i6. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., p. 268; Macrochilus littonanum Whitfield, 1882. Bui. 

 Am. Mas. Nat. Hist., vol. I, p. 73. Warsaw limestone. 

 21 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Sphaerodoma medialis (Meek and Worthen). 



Macrochilus mediate Meek and Worthen, 1860. Proc. Acad, Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., p. 466 ; M. mediate M. and W., 1866. Geol. Sur. Illinois, 

 vol. II, p. 270; Soleniscus medialis White, 1884. Geol. Indiana, 

 13th Ann. Rept., pt. ii, p. 156 ; 31. pulchellum M. and W., 1860. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.. Phila., p. 467; M. intercalate M. and W., 

 1860, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 467 ; M. intercalare M. and 

 W., 1866, Geol. Sur. 111., vol. II, p. 371. Upper Coal Measures. 



Sphaerodoma pinguis (Winchell). 



Macrochilus pingue Winchell, 1863. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 21. Kinderhook beds. 



Sphaerodoma ponderosa (Swallow). 



Macrochilus ponder oswn Swallow, 1858. Trans. St. Louis Acad. 

 Sci., vol. I, p. 202; Soleniscus t ponderosus White, 1884. Geol. 

 Indiana, 13th Ann. Report., pt. ii, p. 156. Upper Coal Measures. 



Sphaerodoma primogenia (Conrad). 



Stylifer primogenia Conrad, 1835. Trans. Geol. Soc. Penn., vol. 

 I, p. 267 ; Macrochilus primogenium Hall, 1858. Geol. Iowa, vol. 

 I, p. 720 ; Soleniscus primogenius White, 1884. Geol. Indiana, 13th 

 Ann. Rept., pt. ii, p. 157; Fusus inhabilis Morton, 1836, Am. 

 Jour. Sci., vol. XXIX, p. 160. Lower Coal Measures. 



Sphaerodoma'? prisca (Whitfield). 



Macrochilus priscum Whitfield, 1882. Annals N. Y. Acad. Sci., 

 vol. II, p. 204. Upper Helderberg. 



Sphaerodoma subcorpulenta (Whitfield). 



Macrochilus subcorpulentum Whitfield, 1 882. Annals N. Y. Acad. 

 Sci., vol. II, p. 224. Kaskaskia limestone. This form is perhaps 

 identical with S. cooperensis of Swallow. 



Sphaerodoma texana (Shumard). 



Macrochilus texanum Shumard, 1859. Trans. St. Louis Acad. 

 Sci., vol. I, p. 402 ; Soleniscus texanus White, 1884. Geol. Indiana, 

 13th Ann. Rept., pt. ii, p. 157. Coal Measures. 



The various terms proposed at different times for members of the 

 group defined by Phillips have been fully considered elsewhere. It 

 is only necessary to repeat here the synonymy : 



Buccinum Sowerby and others (In part) [Non Linne]. 



Buccinites Schlotheim, 1820. Petrefactenkunde, p. 127 (in part). 



Macrochilus Phillips, 1841. Palse. Foss., p. 103 (non Hope, 1838, 

 Coleoptera). 



Plectostytus Conrad, 1842. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 

 VIII, p. 275. (Non Beck, 1837.) 



Soleniscus Meek and Worthen, 1860. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., p. 467. 






1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



Duncania Boyle, 1879. Jour, de Conchyliologie (3), vol. XIX, 

 p. 35. (Proposed for Phillips' genus.) 



Macrochilia Boyle, 1880. Ibid., vol. XX, p. 241. 

 Soleniscus embraces the following American forms: 



Soleniscus acutus (Sowerby). 



Reported, but probably not American. 



Soleniscus altonensis (Worthen). 



Macrochilus altonense, Worthen, 1873. Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. 

 V, p. 593 ; S. altonensis Keyes, 1889. Am. Naturalist, vol. XXIII. 

 p. 423. Lower Coal Measures. 



Soleniscus 1 1 anguliferus (White). 



Macrochilus anguliferum White, 1874. Prelim. Rept. Expl. and 

 Sur., W. 100 Merid., p. 22. Coal Measures. Probably does not 

 belong to this group. 



Soleniscus brevis (White). 



8. brevis White, 1881. Expl. and Sur., W. 100 Merid., Supp. 

 vol. Ill, p. XXVIII ; Macrochilus ventricosum Hall, 1858. Geol. 

 Iowa, vol. I, p. 718 [preoccupied by Goldfuss] ; S. ventricosus White, 

 1884. Geol. Indiana, 13th Ann. Report., pt. ii, p. 155. S. brevis 

 Keyes, 1889. Am. Naturalist, vol. XXIII, p. 423. Coal Measures. 

 It is quite evident that the young shells of several other species have 

 been repeatedly mistaken for this species. 



Soleniscus carinatus (Stevens). 



Loxonema carinatum Stevens, 1858. Am. Jour. Sci. (2), vol. 

 XXV, p. 259 ; Macrochilus carinatum Miller, 1877. Cat. Am. 

 Pake. Foss., p. 151 ; S. carinatus Keyes, 1889. Am. Xaturalist, vol. 

 XXIII, p. 423. Lower Coal Measures. 



Soleniscus? attenuatus (Hall). 



Macrochilus fusiforme Hall, 1858. Geol. Iowa, vol. I, pt. ii, p. 

 718; Loxonema nitidulum'l Meek and Worthen, 1860. Proc. 

 Phila., Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 465 ; Pulyphemopsis nitidula f t M. and 

 W., 1866. Geol. Illinois, vol. II, p. 374 ; Macrochilus attenuatum 

 Hall, 1877. Miller's Cat. Am. Palte. Foss., p. 244 [M. fusiforme 

 was preoccupied] ; Polyphemopsis fusiformis White, 1880. Geol. 

 Indiana, p. 519 ; Soleniscus fusiformis White, 1884. Geol. Indiana, 

 13th Ann. Rep., pt. 11, p. 154. S. ? attenuatus Keyes, 1889. Am. 

 Naturalist, vol. XXIII, p. 423. Lower Coal Measures. 



Soleniscus gracilis (Cox). 



Macrochilus gracile Cox, 1857. Geol. Sur. Kentucky, vol. Ill, 

 p. 570; M. gracile Keyes, 1888. Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., p. 

 239. S. gracilis Keyes, 1889, Am. Naturalist, vol. XXIII, p. 423. 

 Lower Coal Measures. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Soleniscus hallanus (Geinitz). 



Macrochilus kalian um Geinitz, 1866. Carb. und Dyas in Nebraska, 

 p. 5; S. hallanus Miller, 1877. Cat. Am. Palse. Foss., p. 162. 

 Upper Coal Measures. 



Soleniscus 1 hebe ( Hall). 



Macrochilus hebe Hall, 1862. 15th Reg. Rept. N. Y. State 

 Cab., p. 48 ; M. hebe Hall, 1879. Pate. N. Y., vol. V, pt. ii, p. 32. 

 Hamilton ; With considerable doubt referred to the genus. 



Soleniscus humilis Keyes. 



Macrochilus humilis Keyes, 1888. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 

 239. Soleniscus humilis Keyes, 1889. Am. Naturalist, vol. XXIII. 

 p. 423 ; Lower Coal Measures. 



Soleniscus kansasensis (Swallow). 



Macrochilus kansasense Swallow, 1858. Trans. St. Louis Acad. 

 Sci., vol. I, p. 201. S. kansasensis Keyes, 1889. Am. Naturalist, 

 vol.'xXIli., p. 423 ; Upper Coal Measures. 



Solenisc is klipparti (Meek). 



Macrochilus klipparti Meek, 1872. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 328. S. klipparti Keyes, 1889. Am. Naturalist, vol. XXIIL, 

 p. 423 ; Coal Measures. 



Soleniscus newberryi (Stevens). 



Loxonema newberryi Stevens, 1858. Am. Jour. Sci. (2), vol. 

 XXV, p. 259 ; Macrochilus newberryi Hall, 1858. Geol. Iowa, vol. 

 I, p. 719 ; M. newberryi Keyes, 1888. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p'. 240; Soleniscus planus White, 1881. Expl. and Sur. W. 100 

 Merid., Supp. to vol. Ill, p. xxix ; S. newberryi White, 1884, Geol. 

 Indiana, 13th Ann. Rept,, pt. ii, p. 153. Coal Measures. 



Soleniscus paludinaeformis (Hall). 



Macrochilus paludinceformis Hall, 1858. Geol. Iowa, vol. I, p. 

 719; S. paludinceformis White, 1884. Geol. Indiana, 13th Ann. 

 Rept,, p. ii, p. 154. Lower Coal Measures. 



Soleniscus typicus Meek and Worthen. 



S. typicus M. and W., 1860. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila,, p. 

 467; S. typicus M. and W., 1866. Geol. Illinois, vol. II, p. 384. 

 Coal Measures. 



Synonyms and Spurious Species. 



Macrochilus altonense Worthen, 1889. Geol. Illinois, vol. VIII, 

 p. 143. St, Louis Limestone. Preoccupied by Worthen in 1873. 

 Too imperfect to deserve another name. 



Macrochilus curvilineatum De Verneuil. Not American. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Naticopsis genevievensis Meek and Worthen, 1866. Proc Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 268. Kaskaskia Limestone. Syn. of Sp>haero- 

 doma littonana (Hall). 



Macrochilus hamiltonm Hall, 1862. loth Reg. Rep. N. Y. State 

 Cab., p. 49. Hamilton Gr. Perhaps a Holopea. Certainly does 

 not belong to the group under which it was described. 



Macrochilia hildrethi (Conrad). Phectostylus hildrethi Conrad, 

 1842. Jonr. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. Simply an imperfect natural 

 cast of a form resembling S. paludinceformis (Hall). Coal Meas. 



Macrochilus inhabile (Morton). Fususf inhabilis Morton, 1836. 

 Am. Jour. Sci., vol. XXIX, p. 160. Syn. of Sph. primogenia 

 (Conrad). 



Macrochilus intercalare Meek and Worthen, 1860. Proc. Acad. 

 Xat, Sci. Phila., p. 467. Syn. of Sph. medialis (M. & W.) 



Macrochilus macrostomum Hall, 1862. 15th Reg. Rept. X. Y. 

 State Cab., p. 49. Belongs not to this group. Probably a Holopea. 



Macrochilus rnissouriense Swallow, 1858. Trans. St. Louis Acad. 

 Sci., vol. I, p. 201. Described from imperfect casts. Coal Measures. 



Solenidcus planus White, 1881. Expl. and Sur. W. 100 Merid., 

 Supp. to vol. Ill, p. XXIX. Syn. of S. newberryi (Stevens). 



Macrochilus primaevium Hall, 1876. Illus. Dev. Foss., pi. xii. 

 Imperfect casts. 



Macrochilus pulchellum Meek and Worthen, 1860. Proc. Acad. 

 Xat, Sci. Phila,, p. 467. Syn. of Sph. medialis (M. and W.) 



Macrochilus spiral um McCoy. Xot American. Reported by 

 Swallow. 



Macrochilus ventricosum Hall, 1858. Geol. Iowa, vol. I, p. 718. 

 Preoccupied by Goldfuss. Syn. of S. brevis White. 




310 proceedings of the academy of [1889. 



October 1. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



Notes on the presence of Uvibral or Mountain Limestone in Lycoming 

 County, Penna. — The following communication from Mr. Abraham 

 Meyer, was read as part of the Proceedings of the Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section : — 



The" Umbral (Red Shale formation) No. XI of Prof. Rogers' 

 survey, divided by the State Survey into XIa, Xlb, XIc — the middle 

 member being called the Mountain Limestone — varies very much in 

 the southwestern portion of the State and in its further extension 

 through Virginia and Kentucky northward. It thins very rapidly 

 and is not identified in the late survey north of Huntingdon Co. 

 The formation Xlb claims our attention from the fact of its having 

 been altogether overlooked in the late survey of Lycoming County, 

 and from its importance as a horizon for the location of measures 

 occurring immediately above and below it. As it is in the south- 

 western portion of the State I have deemed the subject worthy of 

 interest. Formations of this character carry with them in their 

 widely distributed areas various deposits of commercial value, such 

 as iron ores and fire clays, which, because of the extent of their 

 exposure or outcrop, invite a very searching examination of their 

 importance. There seems to be the regular succession of measures 

 from No. XII — Serai Conglomerate, No. XIc, Umbral Upper Shale, 

 No. Xlb Umbral Limestone followedby No. XIa. 



The formation No. Xlb is shown in an exposure as a bold cliff on 

 Hogelan Run, 6 miles north of Cogan Station, N. C. R. R. On 

 the west side it is about 250 feet above the adjacent stream, about 

 1550 feet above ocean level at base of cliff, and about 1650 at the 

 top of the ledge. The cliff extends about 160 rods around the head 

 of a small run and then extends southwest a distance of about 2500 

 feet or more, the greatest vertical exposure being at the cliff locally 

 known as Kugler's Point, where it is about 50 to 60 feet in height, 

 forming a bold prominent cliff, an interesting feature in the land- 

 scape in passing up the gorge of Hogelan Run. Going over the 

 measures we find they can be divided into sections as in the 

 Trough Creek Valley deposits, as there seem to be various qualities 

 of limestone and associated rocks. There are some seventeen or more 

 changes of rock within sixty feet more or less — and among them we 

 can identify three or four limestone strata from two feet to fifteen feet 

 thick, some of which may have a value for agricultural purposes. 

 I have also found an outcrop of this same formation Xlb on Loy- 

 alsock Creek about A mile west of Barbour's Mills P. O. The meas- 

 ures there seem to thicken, especially XIc. Underlying the above 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



formation are a variety of very interesting iron ores, shales, fire clays 

 and mineral paints which deserve further notice. 



October 8. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Twenty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled, " New and Little-known American Mollusks, 

 No. 2," by H. A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



The Antennas of Coleoptera. — Dr. Geo. H. Horn spoke of the 

 structure of the antenna? of coleoptera and of their being the seat 

 of a special sense, the exact nature of which is not definitely de- 

 termined. 



The locality of the sense is indicated by some peculiar surface 

 sculpture and may be either generally diffused, concentrated in 

 spots or limited to a small number of joints. As a general rule in 

 those families in which the diffusion is general there is little or no 

 variation in the total number of joints, while in families with a few 

 terminal joints sensitive the basal joints vary in number within 

 generic and specific limits, and at times the individual specimen 

 may have the two antenna? unequal. 



The view was expressed that, in those families with the concen- 

 tration of the special sensory faculty in a few terminal joints, 

 as in Scarabaeidae, Hydrophilidae and some Ptinidae, the entire 

 number of joints in the antenna? should be used with extreme cau- 

 tion as a character for generic separation, without the presence of 

 some supplementary characters. 



October 15. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair. 

 Thirty-two persons present. 



October 22. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled, " On a new species of Spider of the Genus 

 Dinopis from the Southern United States," by Dr. Geo. Marx, was 

 presented for publication. 




312 proceedings of the academy of [1889. 



October 29. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



Mr. Theo. H. Conderman was elected a member : — 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



ON THE TAX0N3MIC VALUES OF THE WING MEMBRANES AND OF 



THE TERMINAL PHALANGES OF THE DIGITS IN 



THE CHEIROPTERA. 



BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. 



When a bat with outstretched wing is held between the eye of the 

 observer and a bright light the membranes are seen to be traversed 

 by numbers of lines. Many of these are delicate trabecular of con- 

 nective tissue, — in some instances continuous with the fascia of the 

 forearm, or palm, in others with the capsules of the joints. They 

 can be seen in some examples passing obliquely from the third meta- 

 carpal bone over the palmar surface of the fourth to the membrane 

 between the fourth and fifth bones. The wing membrane is strength- 

 ened at the free margin by several trabecular which pass from the 

 tibia at a point near the ankle to the second digit of the fifth finger. 

 The course of vessels can be traced, as, for example, from the elbow 

 forward and downward on the wing membrane, and on the inter- 

 femoral membrane. Tendons can be seen, as the tendon of the 

 biceps at the elbow, that of the occipito-pollicalis, that of the flexor 

 carpi-radialis at the angle between the radius and the fifth meta- 

 carpal bone, that of the abductor minimi digiti (which often permits 

 light to pass beneath it), and that of the palmar interosseous along 

 the first phalanx of the fifth finger. Separate fascicles of the pannic- 

 ulus can be detected either unattached (as is the rule) or continuous 

 with some of the fibrous trabecular already mentioned, or united 

 at one end to bone. 



Prominent among the markings are those of the nerves. The 

 following have been recognized : branches of the intercostal nerves, 

 of the superficial branches of the lumbar plexus* and of the inter- 

 costo-humeral, the internal cutaneous, the external cutaneous and 

 the median nerves. 



A study of these details has led me to form a good opinion of 

 their availability in describing families, genera and (sometimes) 

 species. 



When a specimen which is held for a moment before a moderately 

 bright light can be assigned in the majority of instances to its true 



* Since the superficial branches of the intercostal nerves are homologous with 

 those of the lumbar plexus they are all named for convenience the intercostals, — 

 the crural line is the lowest of the series. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



position time is saved and the animal preserved intact. As may- 

 be anticipated the value of these characters varies in different 

 groups. But even when they are not sufficiently trenchant to serve 

 for the identification of species or genera, they always indicate 

 affinities, and enable the observer, independently of other aids, to 

 narrow the surmises of recognition to a limited field. 



The details are of restricted use in studies of the dried skins. 

 All statements (with three exceptions) must be considered as applica- 

 ble to alcoholics only. 



I have found it convenient to employ a number of names for the 

 subdivision of the dermal expanse. Those which are now used for 

 the first time are italicized. 



The membrane which extends from the sides of the trunk to 

 include the anterior extremity is the wing membrane (" bat-wing," 

 patagium). 



The membrane between the legs is the interfemoral membrane 

 (uropatagium). 



The wing-membrane above the arm and forearm is the 'pre-, 

 brachium (antebrachial membrane, propatagium). 



The wing-membrane below the arm and forearm would become 

 antithetically the postbrachium. But since the postbrachium 

 could not be separated from the sides of the trunk and the legs it 

 has been found necessary to discard it. 



The part of the wing-membrane lying between the body, the 

 humerus, the lower extremity and a hypothetical line drawn down- 

 ward from the elbow and intersecting the free margin of the mem- 

 brane, is the endopatagium. (PI. X, fig. 1.) 



The boundary at the elbow is often fixed by the vertical terminal 

 branch of the intercosto-humeral line. The subordinate lines (prob- 

 ably platysmal in origin) in the endopatagium incline obliquely 

 either toward the humerus or the trunk. 



The part of the wing-membrane which is limited by the line at the 

 elbow as above given, by the forearm, and the fifth metacarpal bone 

 and phalanges, is the mesopatagmm* Within the mesopatagium the 

 subordinate lines incline either toward the forearm or the manus. 



The part of the wing-membrane limited to the manus becomes the 

 ectopatagium (dactylo-patagium). The subdivisions of the ecto- 



* The endopatagium and mesopatagium are together the same as plagio- 

 patagium of Kolenati. (Beitr. z. Naturgesch. der Europ. Chir. Dresden, 1857.) 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



patagium are the first, second, third and fourth interspaces. These 

 are named from the pollex toward the quintus. The series of 

 hones which is embraced in the metacarpal and phalangeal lines 

 being conspicuous in the bat, it is desirable to possess a name in refer- 

 ing to each series taken as a whole. The name digit will be used 

 for the rod of segments embracing the metacarpal element. The 

 nerve which appears at the anterior margin of a digit becomes pre- 

 digital, and that of the posterior margin, postdigital. 



The radio-metacarpal angle is the space defined by the angle of 

 union of the forearm and the metacarpus. 



The cartilaginous tip to the terminal bony phalanx respectively 

 of the third, fourth and fifth fingers will receive the name of the third 

 phalanx when three phalanges, and of the fourth phalanx when four 

 phalanges are present. 1 The shapes of the terminal phalanges are 

 of interest and some of these will be described. 



I have examined a sufficient number of genera to suggest that an 

 account of the markings of the wing-membranes, and of the shapes of 

 the terminal phalanges enter into all discriminating studies. Inas- 

 much as the account includes descriptions of these parts in the North 

 American bats the validity of the characters can be at once put to 

 the test. 



Artibeus perspicillatus. 



The prebrachium with free margin occupied with a band 1mm. 

 wide which apparently represents the tendon of the occipito-polli- 

 cal — is muscle. 



Intercostal markings conspicuous, four in number. The lowest is 

 the largest and extends as far as the ankle. The oblique band, which 

 extends upward and outward from the ankle on the mesopatagium in 

 many genera, is absent in Artibeus. The intercosto-humeral line is 

 conspicuous and extends to a point in vertical line with the elbow. 

 The vertical platysmal fascicles are about 30 in number. The 

 internal cutaneous system extends as far as end of the fifth finger. 

 It is composed of three divisions, a vertical, oblique and a horizontal. 2 



The fourth interspace is provided with a faintly marked longitu- 



1 Kolenati first identified the tips as phalanges. 



2 The horizontal line represents the main trunk of the nerve, and the verti- 

 cal and oblique lines the branches. " Inferior vertical" and "superior oblique " 

 (terms which are occasionally used in the notes) are amplifications of the last- 

 named term«. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



dinal line, which begins at a point 22mm. from carpus and extends 

 to a point 10mm. from the free margin of the membrane. The pre- 

 digital nerve appears at the middle of the fifth metacarpal bone, and 

 is larger than the postdigital which appears at the metacarpo- 

 phalangeal joint of the third finger. 



The third interspace is provided with a longitudinal line as in the 

 fourth. This line extends from near the palm and reaches to within 

 10mm. of the free margin of the membrane. A nerve appears at 

 the metacarpophalangeal joint of the fourth finger and lies obliquely 

 across the lower part of the interspace. 



The fourth phalanx of the third digit is sickle-shaped, the mem- 

 brane extending from its tip ; that of the fourth digit is of the shape 

 of an inverted T ; that of the fifth finger is triangular, the angle, 

 which is directed toward the body, being prolonged. 



Centurio senex. 



Centurio is remarkable for the system of unpigmented spaces in the 

 mesopatagium near the radio-metacarpal angle and in having the 

 fourth interspace entirely occupied by these transversely arranged 

 spaces. No nerves appear in any position of this interspace. In 

 other respects the membranes are as in other Phyllostomidse. 



Carollia. 



In Carollia the lines are essentially of the same type as in Artib- 

 eus and need not be described. 



Varapyrus spectrum. 



The prebrachium with several obliquely placed lines which pass 

 upward and forward from the forearm. 



In this form the longitudinal lines of the third and fourth inter- 

 spaces are much the same as in Artibeus. The predigital nerve of 

 the fourth interspace is small and appears directly above the meta- 

 carpo-phalangeal joint. A well-defined tendon is seen lying parallel 

 to the first digit of the fifth finger. The postdigital arises from the 

 metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the fourth finger. An homologous 

 arrangement of nerves is seen in the third interspace. In the inter- 

 femoral membrane an oblique line (pubo-tibial) extends from pelvis 

 to the middle of the tibia and an axial line in the center the entire 

 length of the interfemoral membrane. A line passes from the knee 

 obliquely downward and outward and is apparently one of the 

 intercostal series ; but there is none passing upward and outward from 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



the tibia. Of the terminal digits that of the third is the same as in 

 Artibeus ; that of the fourth is triangular with the long angle directed 

 toward the body ; and that of the fifth is much the same but the 

 angle is so far produced that the form of the triangle is scarcely 

 discernible. 



Phyllostoma hastatum. (PI. x, fig. 1.) 



Prebrachium. An oblique line crosses prebrachium near the 

 wrist, a branch of a line and which runs parallel to the radius. 



Endopatagium, with two intercostal lines, and a number of 

 oblique secondary (muscle) lines. The intercosto-humeral line 

 appears at the middle of the humerus. Its main branch reaches 

 the line of the elbow and thence passes downward to near the free 

 margin. The internal cutaneous line with a vertical line near the 

 elbow, and a single large two-partite superior oblique line. The 

 main line goes nearly to the end of the fifth metacarpal bone, one 

 branch going toward the metacarpophalangeal joint. An oblique 

 raised line extends on the membrane from the end of the muscle- 

 mass. The fibers continuous with this Hue can be traced nearly as far 

 as the end of the fifth digit. A distinct line bes-ins at the tin of the 

 fifth finger and passes upward in a straight line. The terminal 

 branches of these two lines in part mingle. 



The fourth interspace presents six lines in the predigital series. 

 Of these one is a raised oblique line from the muscle-mass ; a second 

 answers to the nerve commonly found in the order. The postdigital 

 lines are two in number, — one from about each joint. 



The third interspace with a large predigital which extends 

 obliquely across the membrane to the end of the third digit. The 

 postdigital is small and unimportant. The longitudinal line is pres- 

 ent in both the fourth and third interspaces. 



The interfemoral membrane is marked by four vertical lines ; 

 the pubo-tibial is absent. 



Schizostoma sp ! 



The endopatagium is occupied by four vertical lines which are 

 forked above. The lowest (crural) line of the intercostal series alone 

 seen. The intercosto-humeral line absent. Mesopatagium. The 

 internal cutaneous line with a large vertical at the elbow. A single 

 large superior oblique is present which reaches the fifth metacarpal 

 bone. The main line reaches the end of the fifth finger. 



1 When a line is absent it is implied that it is not seen, and not that, by dissec- 

 tion, it cannot be demonstrated. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



The ectopatagium exhibits five predigitals, — the largest appears 

 at the distal third of the fifth metacarpal bone, and apparently 

 is the same as the single predigital of some other species of Phyllo- 

 stomidte. The longitudinal line in the fourth and third interspaces 

 conspicuous. No pubotibial line in the interfemoral membrane. 



Glossophaga soricina. 



The endopatagium without intercostal line present save the lowest 

 or crural. The intercosto-humeral a mere unbranched line near the 

 elbow. 



The mesopatagium without a superior oblique line. No fold is 

 seen at the muscle-mass of the fifth metacarpal bone or line along 

 the fifth digit. In the fourth interspace a single predigital appears 

 at the distal fifth of the fifth metacarpal element. In a second speci- 

 men a second predigital appeared at the metacarpophalangeal joint. 



Vampyrops lineatus. 



The endopatagium with four intercostals, — the lower being 

 branched. No oblique muscle lines. The intercosto-humeral line 

 is faintly expressed, barely discernible. The remaining lines as in 

 Artibeus. An oblique line from the muscle-mass. This line is con- 

 tinuous with one extending parallel to the digit to end at the termi- 

 nal of phalanx. There are eleven secondary (muscle) lines in meso- 

 patagium. 



Vampyrops helleri. 



Much the same as in V. lineatus. The line from the fifth meta- 

 carpal bone in the mesopatagium is not raised at the muscle-mas& 

 and is everywhere indistinct. 



Desmodus rufus. 



The prebrachium with the greater part with depressed tendon so- 

 that the space which is inclosed between the tendon and the free 

 margin is crescentic. 



Endopatagium. The intercostals inconspicuous, eleven (?) counted. 

 The lowest of these is the longest. The intercosto-humeral is incon- 

 spicuous and ends at a point proximal to the elbow. 



The internal cutaneous line of the mesopatagium with conspicuous 

 vertical branch in advance of the elbow and with two oblique 

 superior branches. The line ends 1mm. somad of the end of the fifth 

 digit. The secondary lines are about eighteen in number and 

 approach the radio-metacarpal angle. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



The fourth interspace. The predigital appears at the middle of 

 the fifth metacarpal bone. The postdigital is curved and appears 

 just proximal to the end of the fourth metacarpal bone. 



The third interspace. The predigital from the fourth meta- 

 carpophalangeal joint. 



A well-defined longitudinal line is seen in the third interspace 

 but none in the fourth. 



The fourth phalanx of the third finger is flexible as in Artibeus. 

 The fourth phalanx of the fourth finger is minute, scarcely visible, 

 axial ; that of the fifth finger is membranous, and deflected somad. 



Diphylla ecaudata (dried skin). 



The endopatagium with intercostals six in number distinct, the 

 lowest is the longest. The intercosto-humeral arises near the axilla 

 and does not reach the elbow. 



The internal cutaneous apparently without vertical or oblique 

 branches. A distinct oblique fold, as in Noctilio, passes downward 

 from the muscle-mass of the fifth metacarpal bone. Secondary lines 

 about fifteen in number, but do not approach the fifth digit or the 

 radio-metacarpal angle. 



The only line seen in the ectopatagium is the oblique predigital 

 of the fourth interspace. It appears at the middle of the fifth 

 metacarpal bone. The terminal digits apparently much the same 

 as in Desmodus. 



Brachyphylla cavernarum. 



Prebrachium ample, volant entire length. A thickened border 

 is seen but no markings. 



The lines of the endopatagium, which appear to represent the inter- 

 costals, four in number. A great number of more delicate lines, which 

 appear to be connective-tissue trabecular with nerve-endings, are also 

 seen. The intercosto-humeral line is first seen at the middle of the 

 humerus. It forks once and ends at the margin of the membrane 

 on a line with the elbow. 



The internal cutaneous line sends a vertical branch downward 

 at the elbow, and a second, half-way along the course of the line. 

 Two superior oblique lines are seen. Fifteen vertical lines, most 

 of which transect the main line, can be counted. 



The fourth interspace with predigital line from the distal third of 

 the fifth metacarpal bone. The postdigital from the metacarpo- 

 phalangeal joint of the fourth digit. The longitudinal line confined 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



to the space between these lines. The third interspace with nerves 

 as is so generally the case with the Phyllostpmidae, viz., the predigital 

 from the metacarpophalangeal joint and the postdigital from the 

 first interphalaugeal. The longitudinal line is conspicuous the en- 

 tire length of the interspace. 



The terminal phalanges are much the same as in Artibeus but 

 that of the fourth digit is less lobate. 



A caudo-tibial line conspicuous in the interfemoral membrane. ' 



Noctilio leporinus. 



The prebrachium without distinctive markings. The thickening 

 in the tendon of occipito-pollical muscle as long as the thumb and 

 lies on the radius. 



Intercostal lines small inconspicuous. The intercosto-humeral 

 small unbranched, does not reach farther than elbow. The internal 

 cutaneous system of two divisions, the vertical being absent. The 

 oblique line with long horizontal primal branch. The abrupt transi- 

 tion of the oblique fibres from the horizontal line is the same as in 

 Atalapha. Thirteen vertical lines traverse the mesopatagium. 

 An elevated oblique fold of skin passes downward and backward 

 from the palmar aspect of fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. 



In the fourth interspace the digital nerves appear at the middle of 

 metacarpals. The postdigital is seen running parallel to the fourth 

 metacarpal bone before being distributed to the membrane. A 

 tendon is seen on either side of the fifth rod at its distal third. At 

 the first interphalaugeal joint of the third and fourth fingers a 

 nerve appears on the opposed sides of the third interspace and each 

 is distributed separately to the membrane. 



Interfemoral membrane scarcely translucent in portion carrying 

 the tail and is traversed by a line without subdivisions on either 

 side of the tail. The infracaudal portion is much thinner than the 

 caudal and is traversed by an oblique line much divided on either 

 side of the terminal point of the tail. Respecting the differences in 

 translucency of the interfemoral membrane it is seen that a similar 

 contrast is seen in the wing-membrane, viz., in the endopatagial and 

 mesopatagial tracts. These portions in Molossus and Atalapha are 

 apt to be more or less hairy. 



The sickle-shaped terminal phalanx of the third finger is free ; that 

 of fourth finger is thread-like, sigmoid, and inclosed ; and that of 

 the fifth digit acicular, deflected toward body and is also inclosed. 



1 Brachyphylla has been described as tailless. In a number of examples 

 recently examined a tail measuring 3mm. was detected. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Emballonura semicaudata. 



The prebrachiuni with middle third of margin thin ; answering to 

 it is a concave line about 2 mm. distant in the center but reaching 

 margin of membrane at the ends of the middle third ; passing down- 

 ward from the crescent thus defined are four oblique lines. The 

 prebrachiuni as it joins the shoulder is slightly thickened. 



The endopatagium with indistinct lines, the general disposition of 

 which are the same as in Miniopteri*. The lowest line appears 

 to arise from the knee. The intercosto-humeral line quite the same 

 as in Miniopteris. 



The internal-cutaneous much the same as in this genus, but is less 

 developed, the terminal branches being smaller. 



A tendon lies on endopatagium forming a concave line along side 

 of the first digit of the fifth finger. The fourth interspace shows a 

 single nerve, viz., the predigital which appears at the middle of the 

 muscle-mass at distal end of the fifth metacarpal bone and passes 

 obliquely downward and forward across the entire interspace. In 

 the third interspace a nerve appears from the opposed metacarpo- 

 phalangeal joints, as in Vampyrus, Noctilio, etc. 



The lines in the interfemoral membrane as in Noctilio, with the 

 exception that the pelvic line extends to the free margin instead of 

 to the middle of the tibia. 



The terminal phalanx of the third finger sickle-shaped not 

 cartilaginous ; the membrane is attached to its tip, and is without 

 pigment in the space which answers to a line unitiug the two ends 

 of the phalanx. The terminal phalanx of the fourth finger is 

 acicular, the extreme tip alone projecting from the membrane ; that 

 of the fifth finger is half the length of the last named, presents a free 

 tip, and is entirely free on the outer (pollical) side. 



Saccopterya leptura. 



Prebrachiuni is abruptly narrowed at the distal end of the muscle- 

 mass of the forearm ; thence it gradually widens to the thumb. The 

 margin is crescentic, and almost equals the rest of the membrane in 

 area. The membrane is traversed by a single line apparently from 

 the external-cutaneous nerve. 



The intercostals eleven in number. The intercosto-humeral rudi- 

 mentary scarcely reaching to the elbow. Internal-cutaneous line 

 with a sharply curved branch descending from near elbow. The 

 superior oblique single. The main line extends obliquely toward 

 the end of the fifth digit. 

 22 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



The predigital line of the fourth interspace appears near proximal 

 end of the fifth digit. It crosses obliquely the interspace to the end 

 of the fourth digit. It sends a branch which runs along the fifth 

 digit. In a second example two predigital nerves were present. 



Interfemoral membrane with faintly marked caudo-crural lines 

 which extend from the tail to the tibia at the ankle. 



Miniopteris schreibersii. 



The prebrachium with a broad marginal band (tendon of uccipito- 

 pollical?) but without oblique lines to the delicate line extending 

 concentric to the marginal band. 



Lines of endopatagium six in number, conspicuous. Intercosto- 

 humeral line originates near the axilla and reaches the free margin 

 of the wing-membrane at a point below the elbow. The internal- 

 cutaneous system composed of the oblique or main fibers only, and 

 ends abruptly after a long horizontal branch, as in Noctilio. It is 

 distributed quite to the tip of the fifth finger. Vertical lines 

 beneath main line fibers abundant, at least seventeen in number, 

 crowded toward the end of the line. The oblique line from the 

 ankle conspicuous and joins the intercosto-humeral. 



The fourth interspace shows the predigital nerve extending parallel 

 to the fifth metacarpal bone to its distal third and is thence deflected 

 obliquely downward and forward to the end of the fourth digit. The 

 postdigital often absent ; when present it is small and inconspicuous. 

 The third interspace has a predigital nerve appearing at the first 

 interphalangeal joint of the fourth finger, and a larger postdigital 

 from the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the third finger. 



The interfemoral membrane shows a distinct pelvo-tibial line and 

 three symmetrical lines from the caudal vertebrae. Two faint lines 

 run down from palm for a centimeter apparently in the position of 

 the fibrous lines which extend from the palm to this membrane in 

 Molossi. 



The sickle-shaped terminal phalanx of the third finger has a free 

 tip and a cutaneous hem on pollical side. 



The terminal phalanx of the fourth finger is small acicular, in- 

 closed and directed dorsal with a slight inclination pollical ; that of 

 the fifth finger is about the length of the preceding, is acicular, 

 directed somad, the extreme tip projects, and is free on pollical side. 



The distribution of the fur on the interfemoral membrane is of 

 sexual significance. In the female the short hair is sparsely diffused 

 at the base of the tail and along the caudal vertebras and is absent 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



from the dorsal space defined on the one side by the femur and 

 proximal half of the tibia and on the other by the pelvo-tibial line. 

 In the male the membrane is generally more hairy and the space 

 defined is covered as is the rest. 



Rhinopoma microphyllum. 



The endopatagium and mesopatagium with numerous vertically 

 disposed bands extending well up in radiometacarpal angle. Inter- 

 costo-humeral line inconspicuous. Internal-cutaneous with two very 

 long slender superior-oblique lines one of which reaches the radio- 

 metacarpal angle. Muscle-mass without oblique folds. The fourth 

 interspace with conspicuous predigital nerve which appears at the 

 middle of the fifth metacarpal bone. The postdigitals are four in 

 number, — the lowest is also the largest and appears at the distal 

 fourth of the fourth metacarpal bone. The third interspace with 

 three very small predigitals from the first phalanx of the fourth 

 digit, and a single postdigital from the metacarpophalangeal joint 

 of the third. Tips to the terminal digits apparently absent. 



The general resemblance of these characters with those of Tapho- 

 zous is striking. The chief contrast is the apparent absence of 

 the postdigitals in the fourth interspace. 



Taphozous mauritianus. (?) 



Prebrachium with middle crescentic portion a's in Saccojiteryx 

 and a nerve is seen in the membrane near the wrist. The angle of 

 the elbow occupied by a thicker sharply-limited membrane than 

 elsewhere. 



Endopatagium with 20 oblique lines of the intercostal series, the 

 lowest not the largest. * The intercosto-humeral is axillary, simple, 

 undivided. It reaches the line of the elbow only near the margin 

 of the membrane. 



The internal-cutaneous line with three vertical lines from the 

 horizontal portion, four superior oblique lines, the main line ending 

 near the end of the fifth digit. The oblique lines on membrane 

 sixty-seven in number and extend well up towards the radiocarpal 

 angle. 



A set of lines distinct from the foregoing occupy the region of the 

 elbow. They are continuous in part with the intercosto-humeral 

 line, and in part are attached to the forearm at the elbow. The meso- 

 patagium near the phalanges of the fifth finger retains a number of 

 delicate lines which appear to be different from those already named. 



The radiometacarpal angle occupied by a deep duplicature of 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



membrane. A small portion of the radial side of the fold attached 

 to a fold lying directly upon the membrane. Extending from the 

 radius at this fold a vertical line is conspicuously seen. 



Predigital, one only; it arises high up from the fifth metacarpal 

 bone and extends obliquely across membrane. Postdigital absent. 



The postdigital is absent in the, third interspace. 



Interfemoral membrane with pubotibial line. A vertical line is 

 seen extending entire length of membrane at a point midway 

 between the tail and the leg. The membrane occupied by a set of 

 numerous transverse lines and a second oblique set. 



Membranous terminal phalanges apparently absent. The specimen 

 is in bad condition. 



Atalapha cinerea. 



The prebrachium without details. The lines of the endopatagium 

 are indistinct owing to the hairiness of the membranes. The inter- 

 costo-humeral line extends to the free margin as in Miniopteris and 

 Emballonura. 



The internal-cutaneous system crosses the elbow at origin, is with- 

 out vertical branch, but yields two horizontal primal branches ; these 

 extend across the membrane near each other and appear to end in 

 the abruptly determined comb-like endings which do not reach the 

 region of the phalanges of the fifth finger. There are two oblique 

 lines extending downward and somad from the muscle-mass at distal 

 end of the fifth finger. 



The fourth interspace has the predigital nerve as in Miniopteris 

 while the terminal branches do not reach the digits of the fifth 

 finger but join a branching nerve which appears from the metacarpo- 

 phalangeal joint' of the fourth finger. A small unbranched line 

 (postdigital nerve ?) appears at the middle of the fourth metacarpal 

 bone. 



Two oblique bands are seen on the fourth interspace near the 

 palm. A fork-like arrangement of lines is seen in the angle between 

 fourth and fifth metacarpal bones and appears to be a branch of the 

 median dividing into the two branches commonly seen in this inter- 

 space. In the third interspace a similar arrangement is seen but the 

 main nerve pursues a longer course before dividing. At the region 

 of the digits there are two predigital nerves and three postdigitals. In 

 this portion of the membrane therefore an unusually large number 

 of lines are seen. It is possible some of these lines pertain to the 

 blood vessel system. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



The pelvotibial line is not seen on the interfemoral membrane ; 

 but the oblique lines from the caudal vertebra? are distinctly visible. 



The terminal phalanx of the third finger is curved only at the tip 

 and no part thereof projects ; that of the fourth finger is acicular, de- 

 flected at a right-angle pollical to the second ; it yields a free project- 

 ing tip ; that of the fifth finger is acicular, is deflected somad and in- 

 closed only on this side. 



The membrane of the first interspace can be discerned every- 

 where along the line of the wing except at part of the first phalanx 

 of the third digit. 



Atalapha noveboracensis. 



The parts much the same as in J., cinerea with the exception of 

 the intercostal lines which are more distinct than in that species and 

 the horizontal limbs of the internal-cutaneous system are farther 

 apart. The third interspace is without predigital lines. The 

 terminal digit of the fourth finger is -without projecting lobe ; that 

 of the fifth finger is minute. 



Lasionycteris noctivagans. 



The prebrachium with distinct tendon of occipito-pollical muscle. 

 The external-cutaneous nerve is seen crossing the angle between the 

 arm and forearm near the elbow. Three conspicuous intercostal 

 lines are discerned. 



The intercosto-humeral line unites with the internal-cutaneous 

 system. It arises high up near the axilla. The internal-cutaneous 

 system with vertical oblique and horizontal lines discernible. None 

 of the terminal lines of the foregoing, viz., the intercostal intercosto- 

 humeral or internal-cutaneous reach the free margin of the wing- 

 membrane. No vertical lines apart from the foregoing are discernible. 

 The oblique tibial line arises from near ankle and extends as far as 

 the intercosto-humeral at the elbow. 



A delicate forked line extends downward and somad from lower 

 part of muscle-mass at the proximal end of the fifth metacarpal 

 bone. 



The fourth interspace exhibits the predigital nerve appearing in 

 a well-defined elevated fold of membrane at the side of the muscle- 

 mass just named. The line forms a curve and extends about one- 

 half way down the shaft of the fifth metacarpal bone when it is lost 

 along the line of the shaft. The main branch of the nerve arises 

 from the middle of the curve and passes downward and forward but 

 does not extend beyond the middle of the interspace, nor quite to its 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



free border. The postdigital arises high in the interspace apparently 

 from the palm, approaches the fourth metacarpal bone at its prox- 

 imal end but soon leaves it and is distributed to the anterior half of 

 the interspace. 



The third interspace shows a delicate line from the first inter- 

 phalangeal joint of the fourth finger and a second longer one from 

 the metacarpophalangeal joint of the third finger. 



The interfe moral membrane shows the oblique line above called 

 subtibial but in this form it is caudotibial since it arises from 

 the side of the first caudal vertebrse. 



The terminal phalanges much the same as in Atalapha. The 

 parts are all delicate ; the terminal phalanx of the third digit is 

 sigmoid and less rigid than in any species examined. The tip of the 

 terminal phalanx of the fourth digit is minutely lobed and free. 



The markings in Vesperus, Vesperugo, and Vespertilio are 

 among the most intricate of any in the order. My material has 

 not enabled me to do more than give a general idea of the parts. 

 The characters appear to be more sharply defined in Vespertilio 

 than in Vesperus, and often yield good characters in separating species, 

 As may be expected the American species are the most difficult. I 

 may here mention that owing to the close resemblance in general 

 appearance and similarity of habit of Vesperugo georgianus and 

 Vespertilio subulatus the two species are frequently found in the 

 same jar and both receive the name of the commoner form, V. sub- 

 ulatus. Brief examination is alone required to separate them. The 

 two predigitals and absence of the postdigitals in the fourth interspace 

 of Vesperugo georgianus being easily separated from the symmetrical 

 arrangement in Vespertilio subulatus. 



Vesperus fuscus. 



The parts throughout much the same as in L. noctivagans. There 

 is a small oblique band at the muscle-mass at proximal end of the 

 fifth metacarpal bone on the mesopatagium and one on the fourth 

 interspace. The intercostal lines five in number. The postdigital 

 as a rule appears as one of two terminal branches which arise from 

 a common trunk in the angle formed by the approximation of the 

 fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. The line may in some instances 

 approach the fourth metacarpal and in some the fifth, when the 

 arrangement resembles that of Vesperugo georgianus. The predig- 




1889.] y LRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



ital nerve shows* the line from the muscle-mass scarcely elevated. 

 The terminal phalanx of the fourth digit L-shape. 



Vesperugo georgianus. 



Intercostals three in number. Intercosto-humeral from the axilla. 

 The fourth interspace with two long conspicuous predigitals, but no' 

 postdigital. The third interspace with the nerves from the meta- 

 carpophalangeal joints. In a few specimens the two postdigitals 

 arise from a common line Avhich extends parallel to the fifth meta- 

 carpal bone in which case a close resemblance to some forms of 

 Vesj>erus fuseus is seen. The terminal phalanx of the fourth finger 

 as in L. noctivagans. 



Vesperus discolor. 



Intercostals four ; intercosto-humeral at middle of the humerus 

 simple. Internal-cutaneous with two inferior vertical lines. A con- 

 spicuous raised oblique line on mesopatagium from the muscle-mass 

 of the fifth digit. A second oblique line (but smaller than the fore- 

 going) on the fourth interspace. The predigital of this interspace 

 appears from the fourth metacarpal bone 2mm. above the metacarpo- 

 phalangeal joint. 



Vesperus noctula. 



The prebrachium with ridge over position of thickening on tendon 

 of occipito-pollicalis. The mesopatagium retains an oblique fold 

 from muscle-mass and a second from the same in the fourth inter- 

 space. The radiometacarpal region without raised folds from 

 radius. This interspace retains a long predigital from the center, 

 no nerve appearing from the fifth digit itself. The predigital is a 

 small nerve appearing a short distance proximal to the fourth meta- 

 carpophalangeal joint. 



In V. lasiopterus, a closely allied species, the folds from radius 

 near the wrist are raised and the one nearest the wrist conspicuous 

 as in Nxjctinomus and Molossus. The predigital nerve of the fourth 

 interspace showing a disposition as in V. fuseus, viz., to divide high 

 up, the main nerve to be a little convex to the line of the digit, and 

 a large branch to arise from this convexity to be distributed to the 

 membrane. The postdigital as in V. noctula. 



These distinctions of the markings of V. noctula and V. lasiop- 

 terus correlate with others in the auricle, the outer border in the 

 species last named being less well developed. The terminal phalanx 

 of the fourth finger is L-shaped. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Vesperus hesperus. 



Intercostals three in number, the lowest appearing at the knee and 

 passing to the free margin of the endopatagium. 



Intercosto-humeral appears at the middle of the humerus ; it is 

 simple and apparently joins a vertical line which is extended down- 

 ward from the elbow. 



The internal-cutaneous with a single inferior line, but with no 

 superior obliques. 



The fourth interspace with digital nerves as in Vespertilio, in this 

 regard markedly differing from other examples of Vesperus which 

 have been examined. 



The interfemoral membrane provided with a pubocalcaneal line. 



Scotophilus temminckii. 



Prebrachium with ridge appearing on dorsal surface near the 

 radius as in V- noctula. The intercostals two in number raised and 

 bold, the lower receives an accession from the region of the knee. 

 The intercosto-humeral unbranched. It appears at the middle third 

 of the humerus. A well-defined oblique tibial line passes upward 

 and outward. The internal-cutaneous nerve is of great simplicity, 

 the superior obliques small, and imperfectly defined, the inferior two 

 in number, bolder. The nerve ends in a linear structure to the side 

 and beyond the terminal phalanx of the fifth digit, as in V. murinus 

 The muscle-mass of this digit with two oblique lines. 



The fourth interspace with one oblique line from the muscle-mass. 

 The predigital much the same as in Vesperugo fuscus The main 

 nerve in the angle divides below the oblique line, one branch going 

 to the fifth digit and the other forward and downward obliquely 

 across the interspace. The postdigital is small and appears at the 

 metacarpophalangeal joint. 



The third interspace with the predigital from the first interphal- 

 angeal and the postdigital from the metacarpophalangeal joint. 



The interfemoral membrane with several caudal lines and one 

 long branched line from pubis which does not, however, reach 

 the tibia. 



V. subulatus var. from Mammoth Cave. 



The prebrachium as in Vesperus. The endopatagium with eight 

 oblique lines extending from the trunk and the leg. These lines 

 ai'e distinct from those described in other species. They pursue a 

 different course, end on the intercosto-humeral system, and appear 

 to be distinct from the nerves of the side of the body and the 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



posterior extremity. These last named are so faint and indistinct 

 that they cannot be accurately noted. At the knee an oblique band 

 extends outward and downward and intersects the oblique tibial 

 band, which in this genus is of large size and can be traced across 

 the wing membrane almost to the forearm. 



The intercostal humeral line arises high up towards the axillaj 

 is slightly curved with the concavity toward the body, and is 

 intimately associated with the oblique lines already described. 

 Beyond these lines and at a point proximal to the elbow, a delicate 

 line extends below this joint where it terminates on a line between 

 the elbow and ankle. The internal cutaneous system arises to 

 inner side of humerus directly proximal to elbow. It soon divides 

 into two branches, the vertical and oblique. Above the oblique is 

 a delicate line in the position of the horizontal of other forms, but 

 it appears to be fibrous only, that is to say is part of the trabecular 

 system and is distinct from the nerve or vessel. This line may 

 receive the name, paraneural. A very delicate oblique band is 

 discernible by careful inspection at the muscle-mass at proximal end 

 of the fifth metacarpal bone, extending on the prebrachium. 



The fourth interspace exhibits a single nerve in palmar end of 

 space. This soon divides into a predigital and a postdigital. The 

 predigital runs near the fifth metacarpal bone and parallel with it 

 to its middle ; it is then deflected obliquely downward and forward 

 to supply more than half of the fourth interspace. The postdigital 

 lies along side of the fourth metacarpal bone as far as the middle 

 and thence is deflected at a more acute angle than the preceding 

 nerve and is distributed to the anterior third about of the interspace. 

 The predigital divides just before reaching the metacarpophalangeal 

 joint. The postdigital is seen just above the first interphalangeal 

 joint. The third interspace has a delicate nerve passing downward 

 and forward from the first interphalangeal joint of the fourth finger 

 and a second longer nerve from the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of 

 the third finger. 



The terminal phalanx of the third finger of very flexible cartilage, 

 that of the third finger augulated at distal third, but not L-shaped ; 

 that of the fifth finger deflected so as to lie its entire length in 

 the free margin of the membrane. 



Interfemoral membrane without distinctive lines. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Vespertilio ciliolabrum. 



The membranes throughout as in V. subulatus. 



The terminal phalanx of fifth finger with lobe-like tip and less- 

 deflected from line of the second phalanx toward the body. 

 Vespertilio nigricans. 



Presents a thickened fold on the border of the prebrachium. In- 

 tercostal lines four in number. Intercosto-humeral rudimentary. 



Fourth interspace with two predigital lines. The lower of these 

 is the largest and crosses the fifth digit. A minute fold extends on 

 the mesopatagium at the point of crossing. The postdigital is less 

 oblique than the foregoing. 



Vespertilio murinus. 



Endopatagium. Intercostal lines three, conspicuous. Intercosto- 

 humeral line undivided. The internal-cutaneous with four inferior 

 vertical lines, none of them crossing the main nerve. The para- 

 neural ones do not reach to within a centimeter of the radius. A 

 conspicuous linear marking ends in a tip along side of the terminal 

 phalanx of the fifth digit and appears to receive some of the endings 

 of the internal-cutaneous. 1 The oblique line from the muscle-mass 

 is inconspicuous. 



In the fourth interspace a marked linear fold lies in angle. The 

 oblique fold from muscle-mass Avell developed. The predigital and 

 postdigitals as in V. subulatus, excepting that a separate nerve 

 appears at the metacarpophalangeal joint of the fifth finger. 



The terminal phalanx of the fourth finger T-shaped ; that of the 

 finger is acicular and is enclosed in membrane. 



Corynorhinus macrotis. 



The markings are of the same general character as in Vespertilio. 

 Nycyicejus crepuscularis. 



Intercostals four. Intercosto-humeral appears near axilla and 

 becomes vertical a little beyond the elbow. The internal cutaneous 

 with a single superior oblique and a single vertical inferior: The 

 line above the main trend of the nerve as in V. fuscus. The fourth 



1 The appearance in V. murinus at the region of the mesopatagium along side 

 of the terminal phalanx of the fifth digit is due to a rod of cartilage which re- 

 sembles in structure that of the terminal phalanx. The details of the disposition 

 of this stylus varies in different forms. It is broad and spatulate in Vesperugo 

 discolor but acicular in Vespertilio my st acinus. The stylus is constant in many 

 forms, and inconstant in others. It is not separately described in the notes since 

 its nature was not detected until the paper was going through the press. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



interspace as in this species except that the postdigital appears at the 

 proximal sixth of the fourth metacarpal bone. In one specimen it 

 was absent. Oblique tibial and pubo-tibial lines as in this species. 



Mormoops blainvillei. 



Prebrachium with a tendon lying parallel to free margin at middle 

 third. An oblique line extends from the humerus forward and up- 

 ward. 



Intercostals nine In number, reaching side of trunk, the lowest not 

 larger. The intercosto-humeral forked, reaching the line of the 

 elbow ; several small branches of this line before division pass 

 obliquely downward. Internal cutaneous passes to the extreme tip 

 of the mesopatagium. The main line horizonal to the middle of the 

 membrane and thence abruptly deflected downward and outward. 

 Two superior obliques, six inferior obliques. A broad raised fold 

 extends obliquely on mesopatagium from the muscle-mass of the 

 fifth digit. The fourth interspace with predigital high up on the 

 fifth digit from the 'side of the muscle-mass and supplies two-thirds 

 of the membrane, the postdigital arises from near the proximal end 

 of the fourth digit and supplies anterior third. 



Interfemoral membrane without pubotibial line. Beyond the 

 point at w r hich the tail emerges a straight line continues to the free 

 margin. Two lines pass from the tail, one obliquely to reach the 

 margin, one transversely to reach the calcaneum near the ankle. 

 Three faintly-expressed lines pass from the thigh and leg down- 

 ward. Terminal phalanges quite different from Chilonycteris, that 

 of the third finger ossified with second digit, the remaining two 

 apparently absent, possibly ossified with the second phalanx of 

 their respective digits. 



Chilonycteris davyi. 



Prebrachium tendon seen parallel to proximal half but no oblique 

 tendon traverses the membrane from the humerus. Intercostals 

 fourteen and do not reach the body. Intercosto-humeral as in 

 Mormoops. The internal cutaneous lines thirteen, six of these are 

 confined beneath the main line and are the same as the inferior 

 verticals of other descriptions in this paper. The succeeding two 

 intersect the main line where it turns from the horizontal to an 

 oblique position. The remaining lines pass up toward the radio- 

 metacarpal angle and are ranged on the trabecular of the mem- 

 brane. The tip of the nerve goes to the extreme tip of the fifth 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



digit. A small oblique fold concealed beneath lateral border of the 

 muscle-mass of the fifth digit. 



In the fourth interspace the general arrangement as in Mormoops. 

 A faint attempt at the formation of a logitudinal line seen. The 

 postdigital arises from the end of the proximal third of the fourth 

 digit. The predigital and postdigital unite. 



The interfemoral membrane as in Mormoops, the branches from 

 the thigh and leg inconspicuous or absent. 



Tips of digits much as in Molossi. 



Natalus stramineus. (Plate x, fig. 3.) 



Endopatagium with seventeen intercostal lines. Intercosto-humeral 

 attached to proximal third of the humerus ; it divides once before 

 reaching line of the elbow whence it passes almost to margin of the 

 membrane. 



The internal cutaneous with seven conspicuous vertical inferior 

 lines ; one doubtful superior oblique present. Above the main 

 nerve two lines run parallel to it. One of these ends abruptly 

 whence a vertical line extends inferiorly. A rectangular disposition 

 of lines. The second passes to the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. 



The fourth interspace with pre- and postdigital nerves symmetri- 

 cally disposed. Each nerve arises high up on the metacarpal. 



The angle of this interspace occupied by a sharply defined fold 

 An apparent attempt at the formation of a longitudinal line is the 

 third interspace opposite the first phalanges. The terminal phalanges 

 simple small and inconspicuous. 



Thyroptera bicolor. 



Intercostals five and reach side of trunk. Intercosto-humeral 

 near axilla, simple unbranched. Internal cutaneous without 

 superior oblique. The line is intersected by four verticals, nine 

 toward radiocarpal angle. 



A delicate line appears at the radius near the elbow and ends on 

 the mesopatagium near its middle. This appears to be homologous 

 with the line above the internal-cutaneous in Vespertilio, Ves- 

 perugo, etc. 



Fourth interspace. Three predigital lines. All are small, the 

 lowest the largest and arises from the digit at distal fifth of fifth 

 metacarpal bone. Near the angle of the interspace but to the side 

 of the fifth digit is a large nerve which appears to be the same as 

 the postdigital, which in place of arising near or at the apex as in 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



V. fuscus or from the fourth digit, as in many forms belongs actually 

 to the opposed side of the interspace. 



The third interspace with a large predigital which arises from 

 the side of the fourth digit half up the side of the metacarpal bone. 

 The post digital is absent. 



The interfemoral with numerous transverse lines as in Vespertilio 

 and allies. Two lines are attached to the tail, one passing to the 

 ankle and one to the free margin of the membrane as in Mormoops. 



The terminal cartilages as in Vespertilio except in the instance of 

 the fourth finger which is bilobate. 



Nycteris sp 1 



The intercostal nerves are rudimentary and six in number. The 

 intercosto-humeral leaves the arm at the elbow and descends ver- 

 tically thence. The internal-cutaneous nerve sends a large branch 

 to the fifth metacarpal bone. The predigital nerve of the fourth 

 interspace appears high up near the angle. The postdigital is absent. 



The third phalanx of the third finger one-fifth the length of second 

 phalanx. It is deflected somad at the margin. Well-defined 

 membranous phalanges are seen on the fourth and fifth fingers. The 

 fourth terminal phalanx is of cartilaginous consistence. 



Megaderma spasma. 



Prebrachium with a line on the distal part as in Pteropns. One 

 middle conspicuous intercostal, and one lower line (crural). The 

 intercosto-humeral system composed of two lines, which appear at 

 the distal fourth of the humerus but pass scarcely at all beyond the 

 line of the elbow. The internal cutaneous line sends a branch to the 

 fifth metacarpal bone as in Nycteris. 



The fourth interspace in addition to the predigitals and post- 

 digitals from the metacarpo-phalangeal joints possess a large nerve 

 which arises by two roots from the side of the fifth metacarpal bone 

 The interfemoral membrane with remarkably distinct pubo- 

 tibial bands. The distal third of membrane much less translucent 

 than the proximal two-thirds. The free margin of the endo- 

 patagium often presents a similar appearance. All the terminal 

 digits are well developed, membranous and lie somad in the free 

 margins of the membrane. 



The third interspace crossed by a line which unites the meta- 

 carpo-phalangeal articulations. A number of symmetrically ar- 

 ranged pigment patches are arranged on either side of this line. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Megaderma frons. (Plate x, fig. 2.) 



Prebrachium with a vertical line from the angulated portion of 

 the free margin. Endopatagium with six intercostal lines. Inter- 

 costo-humeral composed of two lines at its appearance from the 

 proximal end of the humerus ; these unite to form a single line be- 

 low the elbow. The internal-cutaueous with six inferior vertical 

 lines and an equal number of superior vertical. No superior oblique 

 lines are seen. A separate pannicular line lies beyond the range of 

 the internal-cutaneous. The predigitals of the fourth interspace 

 three in number ; all are short, — the most proximal of the three being 

 the longest. The postdigital is small and appears a short distance 

 above the metacarpophalangeal joint of the fourth finger. The pre- 

 digital of the third interspace appears at the metacarpophalangeal 

 joint of the fourth digit. The postdigital from the first interpha- 

 langeal of the third digit. Two delicate trabecular extend across 

 the third interspace between the metacarpophalangeal of the fourth 

 and the first interphalangeal joint of the third finger.* The inter- 

 femoral membrane shows a short caudal line with a long conspicuous 

 line extending thence to the ankle. The movable tips on ends of 

 osseous phalanges, exceedingly rudimental. 



Rhiolophus philippinensis. 



The prebrachium without characteristic lines. 



The endopatagium with well-marked lines extending from body, 

 thirteen in number, the lowest being the stoutest. 



The intercosto-humeral line extends beyond elbow before being 

 deflected downward. 



The internal-cutaneous system lies below elbow and yields the 

 oblique line only. This traverses the membrane to the region of 

 the phalanges of the fifth finger. The muscle-mass on the fifth 

 metacarpal bone without oblique lines. Pocket at radiocarpal angle. 



In fourth interspace there are two postdigital nerves. One of 

 these appearing at distal third of the fifth metacarpal bone, and one 

 at the metacarpophalangeal joint. A single postdigital nerve is 

 seen at the distal fifth of the fourth metacarpal bone. In the third 

 interspace there are two nerves, one appearing from each of the 

 metacarpophalangeal joints. 



The third phalanx of the third finger small, one-eighth of the 

 length of the second phalanx. The third phalanx of the fourth 



* In a second specimen in bad condition, which came to hand while the 

 paper was going through the press, these pigment spots were absent. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



finger a mere nodule and deflected somad ; that of the fifth finger 

 is absent. 



The interfemoral membrane with a conspicuous caudotibial line. 

 Phyllorhina commersonii. 



The intercostal lines rudimentary or absent. The intercosto- 

 humeral line scarcely reaches the line of the elbow. In the fourth 

 interspace there are five predigital lines. The third phalanx of the 

 third finger is small and deflected somad on the free margin of the. 

 membrane of the third interspace. The third phalanx of the fifth 

 finger is present and of the same character as in Bhinohphus 

 phi/ippinensis. The remaining features as in this species. 



Phyllorhina diadema. 



Resembles B. philippinensis. The intercostal lines are numerous. 

 There is but one predigital nerve in the fourth interspace. 



Phyllorhina galerita. 



The predigital and the postdigital nerves appear at the middle of 

 their respective metacarpal bones. 



Epomophorus franqueti. 



The prebrachium shows the tendon of the occipito-pollical muscle to 

 be thread-like and to divide at the wrist into two branches. It lies a 

 short distance below the free margin of the membrane. At the 

 distal third of the forearm an oblique line reaches it from beneath. 

 No lines are raised above the plane of membrane as in other genera 

 of the Pteropidse. 



The intercostal lines small but numerous ; not counted. The 

 crural line scarcely larger than the others. The intercosto-humeral 

 line small, rudimentary. The line ends abruptly in an open plesh 

 before reaching the elbow. A coarse network of branches are seen 

 on the line of the elbow. A few branches reach the free margin of 

 the membrane. 



The superior oblique line branching off from the internal cuta- 

 neous inconspicuous. The main internal cutaneous line reaches the 

 middle of the mesopatagium and is thence abruptly deflected down- 

 ward and outward and terminates in the neighborhood of the second 

 phalanx of the fifth toe. One branch ends at the metacarpo- 

 phalangeal joint, and another at the free margin of the membrane. 

 The radio-metacarpal angle is crossed by a membrane. 



The predigital nerve appears at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint 

 of the fifth finger and the postdigital at that of the fourth. Two 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1889. 



tendons cross (beneath the skin) the angle of the fourth interspace. 

 These do not correspond to the raised folds of Pteropus. In the third 

 interspace the predigital nerve appears at the fourth metacarpo- 

 phalangeal joint and extends parallel to the first digit to the first 

 interphalangeal joint. From the middle of this nerve a branch 

 passes obliquely downward and outward. No arrangement similar 

 to this is seen in any other form. In the second interspace with a 

 distinct predigital nerve. 



In Hypsignathus (dried skin) the predigital is as in Pteropus. 

 Thus this genus is distinguished from JEpomophorus franqueti by a 

 character of the mesopatagium. 

 Pteropus vulgaris. 



The tendon concealed in margin of the prebrachium, and becomes 

 apparent only at the distal fifth of forearm. Two oblique lines pass 

 upward toward the tendon from the line of the forearm. 



Endopatagium with a few faintly traced intercostal lines, two of 

 which become fleshy interiorly. These, the crural line and the inter- 

 costo-humeral line distinct, raised and unbranched. 



The internal cutaneous line with two superior oblique branches. 

 The main line ends at the terminal digit of the fifth finger without 

 division. Six vertical raised lines (and several smaller ones near 

 the fifth finger) cross the membrane. 



The fourth interspace with the predigital from metacarpopha- 

 langeal joint, and the postdigital from the first phalanx just below 

 the joint. The angle of the interspace crossed by a raised fold. 

 The third interspace with the predigital nerve appearing from the 

 first phalanx of the fourth finger just above the interphalangeal 

 joint. The nerve is curved forward, while the postdigital is straight 

 and appears near the distal end of the first phalanx of the third 

 finger. As with the fourth, the third interspace is crossed by a 

 raised fold. The cruro-tibial fold of the interfemoral membrane 

 raised. 



Pteropus medius, ami Pteropus sp? 



The same as P. vulgar-is. In an embryo the transverse bands 

 were as conspicuous as in P. vulgaris.. 



Cynonycteris stramineus. 



One adult and six immature specimens of this species were 

 examined. The lines were much the same as in P. vulgaris. In 

 the third interspace the digital lines appeared from the inter- 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



phalangeal joints, and the fourth interspace not crossed by fold in 

 three. Bands were absent across the interspaces in four. The post- 

 digital line in the fourth interspace from the joint in one. 



It will thus be seen that the presence of the raised fold in the angle 

 of the third and fourth interspaces is variable in the young of this 

 species and it may be here regarded as a variable, acquired character. 

 In the embryo of P. medius, the fold was present. 



The arrangement of the lines on the membranes is sufficiently 

 distinct to distinguish the single example of Epomophorus from any 

 of the four species of Pteropus. It is evident that in the genus last 

 named the same general characters are declared with a disposition 

 to variation in a few details. 



Cynonycteris collaris. 



The arrangement of lines much the same as in Pteropus. There 

 are six raised intercostal lines present. All the digital lines appear 

 at the joints or the phalanges. The oblique line from the forearm 

 absent in the prebrachium. The raised folds are absent from the 

 angles of the interspaces. 



Cynonycteris aegyptiaca. 



The intercostal lines are rudimentary or absent. The lower or 

 crural line alone weH seen. 



Cynopterus sp? from Borneo. 



A few rudiiuental intercostal lines seen which do not join the 

 trunk. A large pelvo-crural raised line is present. The intercosto- 

 humeral line is raised, simple and without division until the border 

 of the free margin of the membrane is reached. The nerve does 

 not extend as far as the line of the elbow. The internal-cutaneous 

 line with three superior branches. Numerous small vertical lines 

 traverse the mesopatagium. The main nerve sends a branch to 

 the metacarpophalangeal joint of the fifth finger. 



The fourth interspace with digital nerves from the metacarpo- 

 phalangeal joints. The third interspace with the postdigital from 

 distal fourth of the first phalanx. 



Cynopterus sp ? from Borneo. 



No branch is given from the internal-cutaneous nerve to the 

 metacarpophalangeal joint. In other respects as in foregoing. 



Cynopterus sp ? 



The intercostal lines join the body, and are raised. The meso- 

 patagium with numerous vertical lines, at least sixteen in number. 

 16 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



In all the Pteropidse examined the terminal digits are throughout 

 of a simple character. No flexible segments are appended to the 

 osseous ones. 



Harpyia major. (Dried skin.) 



The intercostal lines confined to one line at the lower part. The 

 line apparently divides at the knee. The intercosto-humeral simple, 

 passes downward as usual on the line from the elbow. The internal- 

 cutaneous with a very short horizontal trend, soon becoming oblique 

 and passing thence to the region of the terminal phalanx of the fifth 

 digit gives one inferior vertical branch,and one superior oblique. 



The fourth interspace with the pre- and postdigitals appearing at 

 the metacarpophalangeal joints. The third interspace with pre- 

 digital appearing from the first phalanx of the fourth finger nearly 

 at its middle and with the postdigital from the third metacarpo- 

 phalangeal joint. Owing to the relative shortness of the meta- 

 carpals these nerves seem to be unusually long. 



Remarks : It may be expected that variations in the arrange- 

 ments of the wing-markings will be occasionally found. Thus in one 

 specimen of Saccopteryx leptura two predigital nerves were found in 

 the fourth interspace on both sides. The additional nerve evidently 

 arose from the main nerve and pursued its course parallel to the 

 fifth metacarpal bone and so close to it as not to appear through the 

 skin-expanse. Each of the large terminal branches in this way arose 

 separately from the side of the bone. In the same specimen the pre- 

 digital and the postdigital of the third interspace were united by a 

 conspicuous transverse line in the fold of flexion between the pha- 

 langes of the third and the fourth digits. 



In Vespertilio subulatus, the predigital and the postdigital of 

 the fourth interspace were seen extending parallel to the metacarpals 

 some distance before being deflected on the membrane. In other 

 examples they appeared from a loop-like disposition of lines in- 

 stead of extending directly from the bone. From among numbers of 

 specimens from one locality one of these dispositions prevailed, 

 while examples from a separate locality the other. In one speci- 

 men an additional predigital was seen on the left side. 



On the whole they may be said to constitute a wider range of 

 variation than in Vesper us fuse us. I have had opportunities of ex- 

 amining large numbers of both forms. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



In Vesperus fuscus (No. 5973 S. I.) the postdigital nerve of the 

 fourth interspace was the same as in Vespertilio. This was the 

 only example of important variation which I noted in this common 

 species. 



In one example of Mormoops blainvillei a supplemental line 

 appeared on the right side between the intercosto-humeral and the 

 internal-cutaneous systems. 



The most constant disposition of nerves was seen in the third 

 interspace, and defined the greatest number of groups. The limi- 

 tation of smaller groups and the place of most decided variation 

 was in the region of the fifth metacarpal bone. The fifth digit was 

 more highly endowed with muscle — indeed was the only digit 

 which exhibited a well-defined muscle-mass at the proximal end. 

 The varying ami important raised folds here took their origin, as 

 well as special lines which extended along portions of the entire axis 

 of the digit. The dispositions of some of the interdermal lines in 

 the mesopatagium bordering the digit, especially at and near the 

 radiometa carpal angle, were so variable, that no attempt was made 

 to describe them. It becomes of interest, therefore, to compare this 

 region of the greatest variability with that of the region of the least 

 variability, — the third interspace, — and infer from such data some- 

 thing of the movements of the several parts of the manus in the 

 living individual. The fifth digit would appear to determine more 

 changes, or at least be associated with more changes, than any other 

 portion. 



The general arrangement of all parts was much the same in 

 groups already well defined. Thus the Pteropidae, Nyeteridse, 

 Vespertilioiiiihe, PhyllostomidaB, etc., each had a distinctive plan. 

 In the group last named all the true leaf-nosed forms agreed in 

 having a longitudinal line in the middle of either the fourth or the 

 third interspaces or in both. The absence of the line in Mormoops 

 is suggestive of the false position of this genus in this group, while 

 the general harmony of the details with those of the Emballonourida? 

 gives ns the hint as to what the true position may be. In the genus 

 Miniopteris a similar suggestion can be made. Natalus and 

 TJujroptera already known to be isolated forms remain so from the 

 evidence yielded by the membranes. Thyroptera appears to be a 

 highly specialized aberrant Vespertilionid. 1 



1 I have reserved for a separate use descriptions ot the markings on lhe wings 

 of Molossi. They differ from those of other groups and are distinctive. The 

 pannicular system here attains the highest development. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Explanation of Plate X. 



Fig. 1. The wing membrane in Phylhstoma hastatum. Diagramma- 

 tic. 1, prebrachium ; 2, endopatagium ; 3, mesopatagium ; 4 

 ectopatagium (it includes the membrane between all the 

 digits) ; 5, fourth interspace ; 6, third interspace. The 

 dotted line extending from the elbow to the free margin 

 of the membrane represents the limit between the endo- 

 patagium and tbe mesopatagium. I, first digit (thumb) ; 

 II, second digit (index) ; III, third digit ; IV, fourth digit ; 

 V, fifth digit (cpiintus). a, intercostals ; b, intercosto- 

 humeral ; c, internal-cutaneous ; d, fibrous line appearing 

 at the muscle-mass of the fifth finger ; e, one of the pre- 

 digital lines of the fourth interspace;/, longitudinal line 

 in the fourth interspace; g, one of the postdigital lines of 

 the fourth interspace; h, predigital line of the third inter- 

 space ; i, longitudinal line of the third interspace ; j, 

 postdigital lines of the third interspace. 



Fig. 2. Same, of Megaderma frons. A delicate pigmented double 

 contour line is seen crossing the third interspace from the 

 first interphalangeal joint of the third digit to the meta- 

 carpo-phalangeal of the fourth digit. 



Fig. 3. Same, of Natalus stramineus. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



ON A NEW SPECIES OF SPIDER OF THE GENUS DINOPIS FROM 

 THE SOUTHERN UNITED STATES, 



BY DR. GEO. MARX. 



My collection of Aranese of the U. S. contains, amongst other 

 new and undescribed material, several specimens of a new species 

 of the germs Dinopis Macleay, which were collected some years ago 

 in Florida and Alabama ; they rested in the collection undisturbed 

 and undescribed, but now, in preparing my "Catalogue of the de- 

 scribed Aranese of temperate North America," I avail myself of 

 the opportunity to add this peculiar and interesting spider to the 

 list of the described Aranese of our country. 



Unfortunately the specimens were collected by friends who were 

 not aware of the importance of the biology of this spider, for this 

 alone would guide us in placing the family Dinopiclae in its correct 

 natural position in regard to the affinity and relationship with other 

 families. This family has been assigned from time to time to 

 different places, viz., near the Attidse, the Lycosidre, the Uloborida?, 

 etc., according to the respective view of the different authors. 

 Since Doleschall, however (in Vol. V. of Acta. Scient. Indoneer- 

 land.), has stated of his Dinopis Kollarii that it builds between the 

 trees a free, irregular and wide-meshed web, in the center of which 

 it stands with the two pair of front legs stretched out forwardly, it 

 has been argued of late that the Dinopidae might be placed near 

 the Agalenidre. 



The late Dr. W. S. Barnard, who collected one specimen of this 

 species in 1880 in Alabama, stated to me then, that he had caught 

 it on a large horizontal web, which resembled very much that of 

 Agalena, but he could not find a tubular retreat attached to tin 1 

 web, as is the case with Agalena. This statement was made, how- 

 ever, from recollection only, but it corresponds with Doleschall's 

 description and I therefore feel myself safe to place the Dinopidae 

 near the Agalenida?. 



Dinopis spinosus n. sp. 



Cephalothorax ochreous-testaceous with a lighter colored longi- 

 tudinal median stripe over the cephalic part which appears again 

 on the posterior region of the thoracic part and lines the posterior 

 margin ; the dorsal surface is sparsely provided with very little 

 black and blunt spines which are distributed in irregular rows; 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



the large posterior median eyes are surrounded by a fringe of long 

 reddish-brown hair The mandibles are yellow-testaceous with a 

 dark grayish oblique mottled band and with long reddish-brown dense 

 pubescence at their inner margin, wnile a few little black, blunt 

 spines are irregularly scattered over the front surface Maxillse 

 ami labium of the same color, the latter having the central region 

 lighter colored. Sternum more brownish-yellow with a very light 

 yellowish longitudinal band over median region. Abdomen greenish- 

 yellow with a very narrow and long longitudinal lancet-shaped 

 spot of a more brownish color; four or five transverse semi-circular 

 (procured) rows of little, black and blunt spines which are placed 

 upon round black spots. Underside with a dark* grayish longi- 

 tudinal narrow band which is lined outside by a narrow whitish 

 >tripe. Legs and palpi greenish-yellow with a few irregular small 

 black spines and black spots, distal ends of each joint somewhat 

 darker. 



Cephalothorax elongate and fiat, very nearly twice as long as its 

 broadest width which is between lens II and III and from which it 

 gradually and slightly attenuates posteriorly; cephalic part one- 

 half as wide as thoracic with parallel lateral sides and rather 

 distinctly separated from it by a shallow impression. Clypeus 

 between the P. M. eyes slightly cleft. 



Anterior Eye row nearly straight, the A. M. eyes standing a trifle 

 higher, and on the sides of a common tubercle, about twice their 

 diameter apart and double as fir from the A. L. eyes which are larger 

 than the A. M. and directed out and downwards. The eyes of the 

 2nd row (the P. M. Eyes) are very large and stand close together; 

 the eyes of the 3rd row f P. L.) are placed close to the lateral border, 

 and the base of the pars cephalica ; they are of the same size as the 

 A. L. E. 



Mandible* a little longer than the length of the clypeus directed 

 more forward than downward, dilated in the middle region, and 

 diverging. 



Maxilla: parallel, constricted in the middle, where the palpi are 

 inserted, the upper part with rounded borders, labium a little longer 

 than j the length of the maxilke with broader base slightly attenu- 

 ating and with a broadened and rounded tip. 



Sternum long, narrow-triangular, flat. 



Abdomen cylindrical, nearly G times longer than broad, narrower 

 than cephalothorax and truncate in front, in the middle region 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



broadened and elevated by two separate blunt projections which are 

 surmounted by a blunt, rather prominent spine. In youth the abdo- 

 men is much higher in the middle region. See Plate XI, fig. b. 



The inferior spinnerets much thicker than the superior, two jointed 

 with the second joint much shorter than the first. Cribellum broad, 

 nearly the width of the abdomen, divided in the middle. 



Palpi with prominently thickened patellar and tibial joints and a 

 curved claw, that is provided with three teeth. 



Legs long, slender with short close pubescence and few scattered 

 short spines; the base of femur I and II at the inner side suddenly 

 compressed and in that compression a brush of long hair Calamistrum 

 itb of the length of metatarsus IV. 1. 2. 4. 3. 



( 'ephalothorax long 5mm. abdomen 11mm. 



Femur I 12mm. Patella 15 Tibia 10.4 Metatarsus 12 Tarsus 2.5 total 38.4 



Femur II 11mm. Patella ]. 5 Tibia 9.6 Metatarsus 10 Tarsus 2.2 total 34.3 



Femur III 9mm. Patel'a 1.3 Tibia 6.2 Metatarsus 6.4 Tarsus 1.2 total 24.1 



Femur IV 9,5mm. Patella 1.5 Tibia 8.5 Metatarsus 8. Tarsus 14 total 28.9 



Explanation of Plate XI. 



Fig. a. Dinopis spinosus Marx, enlarged. 



Fig. b. Cephalothorax from above. 



Fig. c. Cephalothorax from front. 



Fie', d. Cephalothorax from the side. 



Fig. e. Cephalothorax from below. 



Fig. f. Tarsal claws of 1st leg. 



Fig. g. Palpal claws. 



Fig. h. Epigynum. 



Fig. i. Spinnerets with cribellum:'" 



Fig. k. Abdomen of adult from the side. 



Fier. 1. Abdomen of young from the side. 



*& 



Fig. m. Metatarsus IV with calamistrum. 




344 proceedings of the academy of [1889. 



November 5. 



The President, Di\ Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Forty persons present. 



The deaths of Mary Jeanes and Henry Winsor, members, were 

 announced. 



Note on Plnus Banksiana. — Mr. J. H. Redfield spoke of the occur- 

 rence of a forest of Pinna Banksiana upon Schoodic Peninsula on 

 the coast of Maine in latitude 44° 20'. This pine is well-known as 

 skirting the northern borders of our territory from Northern Maine 

 to Minnesota, but it is only recently that its occurrence so far south 

 has been noted. He then gave an account of visits made to the 

 locality by Mr. Edward L. Rand, of Boston, in 1882, and by himself 

 in 1889. 



This pine grows in great abundance over a large part of the pen- 

 insula, seeming to almost entirely replace the ordinary coniferous 

 growth of that region. Mr. Redfield had also found a very extensive 

 growth of Corema Conradii in the open rocky glades in the forest of 

 Pinus Banksiana. 



Mimicry of the environment in Pterophryne histrio. — Mr. J. E. 

 Ives stated that his attention had been drawn to the remarkable 

 resemblance of the color-markings of the Frog-fish to the Sargassum 

 weed in which it lives. This fish is a member of the Pediculati, and 

 shares the sluggish habits common to the group. On account of the 

 elongation of the carpal bones, and other peculiar modifications, they 

 have poor powers of swimming, their structure being adapted to 

 moving about, mi the bottom, among corals, seaweed, and other low 

 forms of lite, which they closely resemble in color and in many points 

 of outline. By this resemblance they are concealed both from their 

 enemies and their prey. The member of the group best known, is 

 the common Fishing-frog, Lophius piscatorius whose remarkable 

 mimicry of its surroundings has been well described by Mr. S. Kent. 

 In the genus Antennarius, closely related to Pterophryne, the species 

 present wonderful similarity of color to the forms among which 

 they live. Dr. Gun t her has paid considerable attention to this genus, 

 and he has also given an excellent figure of Pterophryne histrio, 

 under the name of Antennarius marmoratus? 



Pterophryne histrio is found among the floating masses of Sargas- 

 sum weed in the warm seas. Here it makes its peculiar nest by 

 binding together the fronds of the seaweed with gelatinous threads, 

 and depositing the eggs throughout the mass. The ground color of 

 the fish is of a pale yellow, and on this light background are darker 



1 Journal des Museum Godeffroy, Heft. XI, pp. 161-165, Pis. 99-106. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



irregular brownish bands, closely resembling the branched fronds of 

 the Sargassum weed. Along the edges of these darker bands, on the 

 bands themselves, and also to a lesser extent upon the rest of the body, 

 are little white specks of various sizes, on an average about that 

 of a pin's head. On the belly, around the mouth, and on the 

 dorsal spines, are numerous leaf like cutaneous filaments. Mr. Ives 

 stated that after careful consideration, he had come to the conclusion 

 that the color markings of the fish, and the cutaneous filaments, had 

 been developed in mimicry of the Spirorbis-covered Sargassum weed. 

 Professor Benjamin Sharp who spent last winter in the West Indies, 

 had informed Mr. Ives that on the Sargassum weed, of which he saw- 

 large quantities, were invariably scattered great numbers of Spirorbis 

 .shells. Professor Moseley in " Notes by a Naturalist on the ' Chal- 

 lenger'" (p. 567) speaks of the resemblance in coloration of the 

 forms inhabiting the Sargasso Sea, to the Sargassum weed. He 

 attributes the white spots of Pterophryne histrio, and also of some 

 shrimps and crabs to mimicry of the patches of Membranipora that 

 encrust the Sargassum weed. The white spots upon Pterophryne 

 histrio. however, are much smaller than the patches of Membranipora, 

 and are also much more striking to the eye. This latter fact appears 

 to be due to the delicate fenestrated character of this Bryozoan. The 

 patches of Membranipora, also do not occur in the same abundance 

 upon the Sargassum weed as do the Spirorbis shells. Professor 

 Moseley probably confounded the numerous Spirorbis shells with 

 patches of Membranipora. As far back as 1757, Peter Osbeck 

 describing this fish which he had met with in the Sargassum weed 

 of the Atlantic Ocean while on a journey to the East Indies, said, 

 with reference to the cutaneous filaments, " probably Providence has 

 clothed it in this leaf-like manner, in order that the predaceous fishes 

 might confound it with the sea-weed, and therefore not exter- 

 minate it." 1 *, 



November 12. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



Xotes on Orepidula. — Mr. John Ford exhibited fine suites of 

 Crepidnbi, including C. convexa, Say, C. plana, Say, C. fomicata, 

 Linn, and C glauea, Say, with the view of proving that C. glauca, 

 said by some writers to be the young of C. fomicata, is not only 

 distinct from that species but from all others of the genus. 



Special reference to the matter had been suggested by the omis- 

 sion of the name in Dr. Dall's recently published "Catalogue of the 

 Shell-bearing Marine Mollusks of the South Eastern Coast of the 



1 Peter Osbeck, Rei>e nach Ostindien und China. Aus ilem schwedischen 

 iibersetzt von J. G. Georgi Rostock, 17b'5. p. 4011. 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



United States," the figure given therein having been taken from 

 Dr. Gould's Invertebrata of Massachusetts, and the name C. glauca 

 replaced by that of C. fornicata. 



The speaker was not unaware of the fact that Mr. Tryon at one 

 time entertained a similar opinion regarding the affinity of the two 

 species, but a more recent examination of a large series of shells 

 convinced him that the two forms were specifically distinct. While 

 it is true that the shells of C. glauca are in a measure allied to those 

 of C. fornicata it is quite as certain that the one can be distinguished 

 from the other by at least three characters, either of which is fixed 

 and prominent enough to constitute a species. 



In C. fornicata the following permanent characters may readily 

 be observed : — 



1st. The prominent apex, which is nearly always curved laterally 

 and joined by a shelly growth to the shoulder of the shell. 



2nd. The saucer-like depression of the arch which is the same in 

 all specimens, whether young or old. 



3d. The peculiarly bowed or ogee form of the free edge of the 

 arch. 



4th. The ever-present notch at the junction of the arch with the 

 body of the shell. 



5th. The pear-shaped outlines of the shells. 



A careful examination of the shells of C. glauca will show that 

 all of these characters are absent, and that others quite as positive 

 take their place. 



The apex of C. glauca is not only less prominent but much less 

 inclined to curve laterally. It is also more acutely pointed, usually 

 shining and horn-like in appearance, and the tip is always free from 

 contact with the body of the shell. 



The free edge of the arch is also straighter than that of ('. forni- 

 cata, while, in place of the notch, which is so marked a feature in 

 the last-named species, there is a slight forward growth of the arch- 

 plate along and against the wall of the shell. But the most impor- 

 tant character, perhaps, is the elevation of the arch. This feature is 

 a constant one and sufficient of itself to separate the species from 

 C. fornicata, the arch of which is always depressed. It may also be 

 said that the two species are wider apart at maturity than at any 

 other stage of growth — although we are told that C. glauca just at 

 this period merges into C. fornicata. Other differences including 

 that of color and the quoit-like form of the shells, might be indicated, 

 but those already referred to will doubtless satisfy the student that 

 the two species are essentially distinct, 



November 19. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair 

 Twenty-three persons present. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



The following' communications were made in connection with the 

 proceedings of the Biological and Microscopical Section : 



Activity in Donax. — Dr. Benjamin Sharp described an interest- 

 ing case of activity in a bivalve studied by him on the beach of the 

 island of Nevis, B. W. I. Noticing some active little animals in the 

 swash of the breakers, he took them at first sight to be a form of 

 Crustacea. He had some difficulty in catching them and to his sur- 

 prise found them to be a species of Donax. When they wished to 

 flee from a real or supposed cause of danger, they protruded more 

 than half their length from the sand, as the breakers receded. Those 

 that were not carried into the deeper water on becoming exposed to 

 the air by the retreating waves, buried themselves with astonishing 

 rapidity in the sand and waited for the swash to again flow over 

 them, not protruding themselves until the current returned. The 

 method of getting up the beach was just the reverse of the 

 former action ; that is, they protruded after the receding water had 

 left them dry, so that the "up-shoot" carried them up the slope. 

 A.S soon as the water began to recede they anchored themselves 

 and disappeared into the sand rapidly, waiting thus until the 

 approaching wave came to help them again, and so on. The 

 power of appreciating the shock caused by the breaker on the sand, 

 and also the approach of footsteps, the power of recognizing quickly 

 the direction of the current and how to utilize it in avoiding danger, 

 and the ability to place themselves in a more congenial position on 

 the beach, were indicated by these actions. Did they depend on the 

 sense of hearing? These bivalves exist in enormous numbers on the 

 beach, which actually bristled with them when they protruded. 

 They were of all. sizes, from exceedingly minute specimens to those 

 a half an inch or more in length. 



( 'hange of habit causing change of structure. — Dr. Benjamin Sharp 

 also made some remarks on the Flicker or Ground Woodpecker, 

 Colaptes auratus, his attention having been called to the subject by 

 an amateur ornithologist. Air. Long, now of Nantucket. 



It is well-known to ornithologists that the flicker has departed 

 from the typical habits of the woodpecker in a number of ways. 

 It feeds on insects, especially ants, taken from the ground in prefer- 

 ence to the laborious method of excavating them from under the bark 

 of trees or from decaying wood, and in making its nest it selects a 

 hollow tree, rather than make the effort of boring out a new cavity 

 in the solid wood. The popular name, "Ground Woodpecker," 

 indicates, to a certain extent, the divergence from the woodpecker's 

 habits. 



When the bird is examined it will be found that the bill is weaker 

 than is usual in this group of birds, and that it is curved more or 

 Less in different specimens, showing a considerable amount of varia- 

 tion. If this curve increases it will soon become impossible for the 

 bird to use it as a drill except in soft substances. The feet in this 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



species are weak when compared with those of the typical wood- 

 pecker. 



Dr. Sharp held that this deviation from the woodpecker type in 

 the structure of the bird was due to the change of habit ; the change 

 of function preceding and causing the change in structure, and not, 

 as was suggested, that the curve in the bill leads to the change in the 

 habit. 



This change in the species could hardly be looked upon as being 

 caused by anything but the direct will or desire of the individual 

 itself, as the surrounding conditions, climate, general character of 

 food, enemies, etc., remained the same, as far as is known. He con- 

 cluded by saying that the changes were as yet so slight that the 

 species could hardly be looked upon as degenerate, but was probably 

 tending to become so. 



November 26. 



Mr. Chakles Morris, in the chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



A paper entitled " Catalogue of the Owls, Strigae, in the collection 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia " by Witmer 

 Stone, was presented for publication. 



The following were elected members : — 



James F. Sullivan, Thomas M. Lightfoot, C. D. Lippincott, 

 Minford Levis, M. D., Samuel Stryker Kneass, M. D., and Mrs. 

 Elizabeth S. Bladen.' 



N. M. Romanoff (Grand Duke Nicholas of Russia), was elected a 

 correspondent. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



PROVISIONAL LIST OF THE PLANTS OF THE BAHAMA ISLANDS. 

 BY JOHN GARDINER, B. S. AND L. J. K. BRACE. 



Arranged with notes and additions by 



CHARLES S. DOLLEY, M. D. 



Introductory -Note. — The circumstances under which this Pro- 

 visional List was prepared are as follows: In the year 1886, I held 

 the post of Scientific Adviser to the Board of Agriculture -of the 

 Bahamas, and, in addition to my regular duties, was requested by 

 his Excellency, Governor H. A. Blake, to prepare a list of the flora 

 of the colony. I was directed to give the common names of the 

 plants and their medicinal and other uses ; this latter requirement 

 accounts for the frequently (to scientific readers) gratuitous in- 

 formation. At the same time, I was furnished with a list of the 

 plants of New Providence, prepared some years before by Mr. L. J. 

 K. Brace, a Nassau gentleman, afterwards (1886) an assistant in the 

 Botanical Gardens of Calcutta. • With this as a basis I prepared and 

 classified the following list. In the course of the year I visited 

 many of the "out-islands," and was enabled to make considerable 

 additions to Mr. Brace's list, which, however, was exceedingly use- 

 ful. I regret much that his name is not attached to the plants 

 whose occurrence he described ; this is due to the fact that I was 

 obliged to leave Nassau a month earlier than I had expected, and 

 before I could prepare a final copy of the list. 



It was intended that the list should be published by the Board of 

 Agriculture, whose property it was, but this was not done, owing to 

 the very small funds of the Board. Governor Blake placed it in 

 the hands of my friend Prof. Charles S. Dolley, who has made 

 numerous additions to it, and to whom is due the credit of its present 

 publication. 



The list' is called " Provisional " mainly because it is not backed 

 throughout by herbarium specimens, though in any case it must 

 have been incomplete. Prof. Dolley has placed in the herbarium 

 and green-house of the University of Pennsylvania specimens cov- 

 ering nearly all his additions, and the plants listed as having been 

 collected by Prof. Herrick, are represented by herbarium specimens. 

 (Johns Hopkins Univ. Circ, Vol. VI, No. 18, p. 46.) 



Herborization in so damp a climate as that of the Bahamas is 

 attended with some difficulties, which are considerablv increased 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



when the work has to be done on board of a 20-ton sponging 

 schooner. I found, too, that other duties of more practical use to 

 the colony left but little time for this, so I adopted the plan of col- 

 lecting what plants I could, and diagnosing them while still fresh 

 by the aid of Grisebach, and Maout and Decaisne (Hooker's Ed.), 

 not making any attempt to preserve the specimens, as a rule. This, 

 of course, would have been simply inexcusable if the making up of 

 a Bahama Flora had been my main duty. Thus the list is neces- 

 sarily very imperfect, and much in need of confirmation. 



The islands from which the most interesting results are to be 

 expected, when they are explored, are Andros, Bimini, Inagua, with 

 Mayaguana and Atwood's Cay. Andros (really a group of islands) 

 contains many fresh-water ponds in its northern half. I visited it, 

 with instructions to investigate its agricultural capabilities, a month 

 after I arrived in the colony (1885), when everything was quite 

 new t<» me, and before my books, etc., had arrived. I was unable 

 ever to visit it again ; but it is pretty certain that good results may 

 be obtained from its exploration. Bimini is on the margin of the 

 Gulf Si ream, and I expected interesting "finds" there, but my 

 books were lost overboard in landing, and I was unable to identify 

 what new plants I saw. Its waters are rich zoologically, and on 

 account of its position it deserves botanical investigation. Inagua 

 and the two small islands mentioned are separated from the rest of 

 the archipelago by deep "ocean" water. I made two separate 

 attempts to reach them, but was foiled, once by bad weather, the 

 other time by the theft of my schooner by a Haytian negro. 

 Atwood's Cay is said to possess a small mammal, the Utia or Outi 

 (Capromyx) not elsewhere found in the colony ; and during my time 

 in the Bahamas, a living alligator was washed ashore on a log. of 

 mahogany at Inagua, having probably come from Hayti. Reason- 

 ing bv analogy, these islands ought to be interesting botanicallv. 



The distribution of natural orders in the different islands would be 

 worth attention. I was not able to pay much attention to this, and 

 the book in which I had made some notes on the subject was lost at 

 Bimini ; but such facts as the restriction of the Bahama Pine to the 

 northern islands (Abaco, Bahama, Berry Islands, New Providence 

 and the northern half of Andros), and the greater number and 

 variety of Cacteae in the more southerly islands indicate what there 

 is to be done. Roughly speaking, the flora of the northern islands 

 generally resembles that of Bermuda (cf. Bulletin No. 25, II. S. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



National Museum, also, Plants of the Bermudas, O. A. Reade, Ber- 

 muda, 1885). The flora of the more southern ones while still gene- 

 rally resembling that of Bermuda, also shows affinities with that of 

 the Greater Antilles. Probably the flora of Inagua will be found 

 to be much like that of Hayti and Eastern Cuba. Some Florida 

 plants are found in the Northern islands, but it is a question whether 

 they have come from Florida, or gone from the Bahamas. 



A grant was made by the British Association, in 1887, for the 

 in vest iiiatioii of the Bahama Flora, and Baron von Eggers of St. 

 Croix, known for his work in the Lesser Antilles, has accordingly 

 been in the Bahamas during the last year ; but I have seen nothing 

 of his results beyond a letter in " Nature " of April 12, 1888, p. 565. 



All such plants as have heretofore been listed and the additions 

 made to this list by Professors Dolley and Herrick, are followed by 

 the collector's name in brackets. 



JOHN GARDINER. 



CRYPTOGAMIA. 



ACROGENS. 

 Class I. ALGAE. 

 Subclass I. Melanospermege, or Olive colored Algae. 



Order I. FUCACE/E. 



1. Sargassum affine, J.Ag. 



Gulf weed. Air vesicles spherical pointless. {Dolley.) 



2. Sargassum bacciferum, Ag. 



Gulf Weed, Tropical sea grape. [Dolley.) Air vesicles spherical, 

 tipped with a longish bristle. 



Subclass III. Chlorospermese, or Green Algae. 

 Order I. SIPHONACE^E. 



1. Caulerpa, several species. [Dolley.) 



2. Halimeda opuntia, Lamour. [Dolley.) 



3. Halimeda tridens, Lamour. [Dolley.) 



4. Eudotea flabellata, Lamour. [Dolley.) 



Order II. DASYCLADEiE. 



1. Acetabularia crenulata, Lamour. {Dolley.) 



Tufts two or three inches high, consisting of slender stalks bearing 

 peltate disks or cups, radiated like mushrooms; green, coated with 

 lime, rocks and corals, near shore and in Waterloo Lake. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Order III. VALONIACE/E. 



1. Penicillus phoenix, Lamk. 



Mermen's shaving brushes. New Providence. (Dolley.) 



Class. FILICES. 

 Order POLYPODIACE.E. True Ferns. 



1. Acrostichum aureum, L. 

 AbaCO. (Herrick.) 



2. Adiantum tenerum, Swz. (Swains.) [Heirick.) 



3. Aneimia adiantifolia, Swz. 



Abaco. Green Turtle Cay. (Herrick.) New Providence. (Dol/ey.) 



4. Aspidium patens, Swz. (Grisei.) 



Abaco. (Herrick.) New Providence, a very hairy variety. (Dolley.) 



5. A. incisum, Gr. (Fraser.) 



6. A. trifoliatum, Sw. (Griseb.) 



7. A. adiantifolium, Sw. {Swains.) 



8. Davalia clavata, Swz. (Swains.) 



Abaco. (Henick.) New Providence, abundant near, "Banana 



holes." (Do/ley.) 



9. Polypodium incanum, Swz. 

 Abaco, on trees, i Her rick.) 



10. P. Phyllitidis, L. 



New Providence. (Dolley.) 



11. P. Swartzii, Baker. 



New Providence, on shrubs. (Dolley.) 



12. Taenitis lanceolata, R. Br. 

 Abaco, on trees. (Herrick.) 



13. Pteris longifolia. L. (Swains.) 

 New Providence. (Dolley.) 



14. Pteris aurea, L. 



New Providence, on the trunks of scrub Palmettoes. (Dickinson 

 and Dowd.) 



PHANEROGAMIA. 

 GYMNOSPERMIA. 



Order I. CYCADEAE. 



1. Zamia angustifolia, Jacq. 



Bay-rush. Indigeuous. Pith furnishes starch fit for food and for 

 laundry purposes, sold in Nassau by negroes from Andros, and from 

 outlying districts of N. P. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



2. Cycas revoluta, Thunb. 



Bastard Sago-palm. Common in gardens; originally from Asia 

 (China and Japan), but found in many countries, even in New 

 Guinea. Pith furnishes a kind of sago. 



Order II. CONIFERAE. 



1. Juniperus Barbadensis, L. (Griseb.) 



Bermuda Cedar. Indigenous ; furnishes timber and wood suitable 

 for lead-pencils. 



2. J. Virginiana, L. 

 Abaco. (Herrick.) 



3. Pinus Babamensis, Gr. (Griseb. Dolley ; von Eggers ; Urban.) 



Grisebach states that at the time of writing (1864) the cones only 

 of this tree were known and that " it may belong to the section 

 Tieda." In this surmise he was correct, as can be seen by the speci- 

 mens of cones and foliage in the Univ. of Pennsylvania, and in the 

 Bot. Mus. Berlin. Shr'k 8. It resembles very closely P. Taedawar. 

 heterophylla, now known as P. cubensis Gr. Bahama pitch-pine, 

 Loblolly pitch-pine. Indigenous. Timber poor; fit for turpentine, of 

 which a certain amount was made on Andros and other islands for 

 the use of the Confederacy during the American Civil War. 



ANGIOSPERMIA. 

 MONOCOTYLED ONS. 



Order I. CANNACEAE. 



1. Canna Indica, L. 



" Indian Shot." In gardens. West Indian. 



2. C. coccinea, Ait. 



Said to be natives of India, but now found in most tropical 

 countries. 



3. Maranta arundinacea, L. 



Arrow Root. Tropical America. Many members of this order 

 yield a useful starch ; e.g. M. arundinacea, Oredulis (fleshy rhizome) 

 and others. 



Order II. ZINGIBERACEAE. 



1. Alpinia nutans, Rox. 



Shell-plant, Ginger. In gardens. Tropical America. 



2. Costus sp. ? 



Wild Ginger. West Indian. 



24 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



3. Zingiber officinale, Rox. 



Ginger. Cultivated. E. India. The members of this order are 

 used as aromatic stimulants, in medicine In some forms of dyspepsia ; 

 used as condiment. 



Order III. MUSACEAE. 



1. Musa paradisiaca, L. 



Plantain. Originally from the E. Indies. 



2. M. sapientum, L. 



Banana. Originally from the E. Indies. These two fruits are 

 too well known to require descrijition. From the leaf-stalks of other 

 members of this order, wood-fibre is prepared. 



Order IV. BROMELIACEAE. 



1. Ananassa sativa, Lindley. 



Pine-apple, from Brazil originally. Extensively cultivated for 

 export. Grows best in a peculiar red soil formed by the disintegra- 

 tion of the coral rock, and occurring most extensively in Abaco, 

 Eleuthera, Cat Island and Long Island. 



2. Bromelia Pinguin, L. 



Wild Pine, Pinguin. Indigenous. Good fibre is obtained from 

 the leaves. The fruit is the size of a plum, and is an excellent 

 vermifuge. 



3. Tillandsia utriculata, L. 

 Wild Pine. Indigenous. 



4. T. usneoides, L. 



Old Man's Beard. Florida Moss. West Indies and Southern 

 States. 



5. T. fasciculata, Sw. (Swains.) 

 Wild Pine. Indigenous. 



6. T. recurvata, L. (Griseb.) 

 Wild Pine. Indigenous. 



7. T. bulbosa, Hook. 



Wild Pine. Abaco. {Herrick) 



8. T. canescens, Sw.? 



Wild Pine. Abaco. {HerrUk.) 



9. Catopsis nutans, Gris. ? 



Epiphytic Bromeliad, Wild Pine. Abaco. [Herrick.) Many 

 plants in this order yield very fine silky fibres. The unripe fruit of 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



the Pine Apple and the Pinguin and of other species, is vermifuge 

 and diuretic. 



Order V. ORCHIDEAE 



1. Epidendrum aciculare, Batem. (Lindley.) 

 Indigenous. 



2. E. gracile, Lindl. 

 Indigenous. 



3. E. rufum, Lindl. (Lindley.) 



Indigenous. 



4. E. altissimum, Batem. (Lindlev, Dolley.) 



Indigenous. 



5. E. Bahamense, Gray. {Swains.) 



Indigenous. 



6. E. plicatum, Lindl. [Swains.) 



Indigenous. 



7. E. cochleatum, L. (Catesb.) 

 Indigenous. Pansy Orchid. 



8. E. nocturaum, L. (Catesb.) 

 Indigenous. 



9. Bletia purpurea, D. C. (Swains.) 



Indigenous. Common purple Orchid. Purple orchid tubers 

 made into tea are good for fish poisoning. In Andros they are used 

 for cuts, and called wild ginger. 



10. Bletia sp. * 

 Indigenous. 



11. Spiranthes tortilis, Rich. 

 Probably Indigenous. 



12. S. picta, Lindl. ? 



Trinidad. 



13. Oncidium Guibertianum, Rich. (Herrick.) 

 Epiphytic orchid. Abaco. 



Very few orchids of any kind are of use to man and none of the 

 Bahama species are among these. 



Order VI. IRIDEAE. 



1. Iris versicolor, L. 



2. I. violacea, Swiet. 



3. I. Florentina, L. 



All of these kinds of Iris are cultivated in gardens. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



4. Gladiolus sp. 1 



In gardens. 



The Iris root is purgative and emetic and is used in preparing 

 orris. 



Order VII. AMARYLLIDEAE. 



1. Agave Americana, Linn. 



American Aloe, from Continent; American Agave, Century 

 Plant, Maguey, Magaly, Spiked Aloe, Mexican Maguey, Flower- 

 ing Aloe, Pita. 



2. A. Mexicana, Lam. 



Mexican Aloe, Pita, Manilla plant, from Mexico ; Sisal hemp. 



3. A. variegata, Hort. 



In gardens. Partridge Breast Aloe. 



4. A. striata, Luc. 

 In gardens. 



5. Eucharis Amazonica, Lindl. 



Eucharist Lily. In gardens, from Brazil. 



6. Narcissus Jonquilla, Linn. 

 Ill Gardens. Jonquil. 



7. Pancratium sp. T 



Spider Lily. Old and new world in gardens. 



8. Amaryllis Atamasco, L. 

 Atamasco lily. Gardens. 



9. Crinum sp. ? 

 Essequibo lily. Gardens. 



10. Crinum erubescens, Herb. 

 Squill lily. 



Most of the members of this order are ornamental plants, but 

 some are of great economic value. Agave Mexicana and others of 

 the o-enus yield a fine fibre, known as Pita, Sisal or Manilla fibre. 

 The efforts of Governor Blake and one of the authors to promote 

 the cultivation of these fibres in the colony long appeared unavail- 

 ing ; but now (Feb. 1889), it appears that the cultivation has 

 been begun in earnest. The soil is well suited for these plants, 

 but the want of energy and of capital among the people must make 

 the issue of the experiment doubtful, as yet. A Mexican Agave 

 yields the drink called Mescal. The flowering stalk is used for 

 corks and for razor strops. The juice of the leaves is sometimes 

 used as a resolvent for scrofula and cancers. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 357 



Order VIII. DIOSCOREAE. 



1. Dioscorea sativa, Griseb. 

 Common Yam. 



2. D. alata, Linn. 



White Yam Negro country Yam, and probably several other 

 species. D. sativa includes several varieties. Yams are indigenous 

 in all tropical countries, but the kinds cultivated for food appear to 

 have been introduced from the East Indies, though this is not 

 certain. 



3. Rajania hastata, Linn. 

 Wild Yam. In woods. 



Dioscoreae are chiefly and exceedingly valuable as food from the 

 abundant starch their root tubes contain. They contain an acrid 

 principle, which is removed by cooking. The leaves of some 

 species are used in intermittent fevers. 



Order IX. ALISMAOEAE. 



1. Sagittaria lancifolia, L. 



Arrow head. Indigenous. Sagittaria has the reputation of 

 being good for hydrophobia, mainly on account of its being a water 

 plant. The rhizomes when cooked are eatable. The members of 

 this family possess very astringent properties, and have been used 

 in the preparation of ink. 



Order X. JUNCAGINEAE. 



1. Triglochin, near T. striatum, R. & P. 

 This order is of no known use to man. 



Order XI. POTAMEAE. 



1. Potamogetonsp. T Pondweed. 



Pondweed. This order has no known properties. 



Order XII. NAITDEAE. 

 1. Thalassia Testudinum, Koen. 



Turtlegrass, Manatee grass. Marine. Serves as food for turtles, 

 and in Jamaica waters for the Manatee. 



Order XIII. PALMAE. 



1. Areca Catechu, L. 



Betel-Nut Palm.. One specimen in Nassau, called Pianang, 

 native of Cochin China, Malayan Peninsula and Islands. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1889. 



2. Oreodoxa regia, Kth. 



Royal Cabbage Palm. Several specimens in Nassau and through- 

 out the colony. West Indian. 



3. 0. oleracea, Mart. [Coll. Mart.) 



Barbadoes Cabbage Palm. West Indies. From the tree of this 

 genus is obtained the so-called cabbage, which consists of the young 

 leaf bud, and is eaten boiled or pickled. The pith affords a kind of 

 sago. From the fruit oil is obtained. 



4. Sabal umbraculifera, Mart. {Coll. Mart.) 

 Royal Palmetto. Fortune Island. (Eggers.) 



5. Palmetto, Lodd. 



Fortune Island, very common and used for making hats. (Eggers.) 

 Palmetto leaves when young and undeveloped are an excellent 

 vegetable or " cabbage," and later are used for thatch and for mak- 

 ing baskets, mats, etc., of best quality. The stem of T. parviflora 

 furnishes timber, and fibre is obtained from S. umbraculifera. The 

 roots are rich in tannin and very astringent. Canes of Palmetto- 

 wood readily break diagonally, and so can be used as daggers, the 

 edges being very sharp. On this account their use is forbidden in 

 Cuba. 



6. Thrinax parviflora, Sw. (Calesd.) 



Fan Palm, Royal Palmetto, Palmetto Thatch. 



7. T. argentea, Lodd. (Catesb.) 



Silver leaved palmetto, Silver thatch. 



8. Cocos nucifera, Linn. 



Cocoa nut, Porcupine wood, Palmyra wood, Cocoa Palm. Intro- 

 duced from West Indies; originally from Indian Archipelago or 

 from Islands west of Panama. It is needless to mention in detail 

 the manifold uses of this palm. One summary of them says, that it 

 yields sugar, milk, solid cream, oil, wine, cloth, cups, wood for build- 

 ing, thatch, etc. Cocoanut oil is obtained by pressing the albumen 

 when fresh ; it is transparent, and is used in cookery ; used in Eng- 

 land under the name of Copra. The thicker portion, stearine, is 

 used in making candles, the clear oil for burning in lamps ; for 

 affections of the chest. It is mildly depurative and laxative. 

 Glycerine is obtained from it. The fibre is used for "Coir" ropes, 

 matting, brushes, brooms, upholstery, etc. (Smith Diet., Econ. PI.) 

 Its young leaves are excellent " cahbage ". The pulp and milk of 

 young nuts are said to be strongly anthelmintic. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



9. Euterpe oleracea, Mart. 



Cabbage Palm. 12-25 ft. higb. Every where, except Abaco, 

 Bahama, Andros, Eleuthera, Berry Islands. " Cabbage " used as 

 food for hogs ; this appears to be causing the extinction of the palm. 



Order XIV. TYPHACBAE. 



1. Typha latifolia, Linn. 



Cat's Tail, Bulrush, Reed-Mace. Extends from Brazil to Texas. 

 The young shoots are eatable when boiled, and also the rhizomes, 

 which are astringent and diuretic, and used in Asia for dysentery. 

 The pollen is made into bread in India and New Zealand. 



Order XV. AROIDEAE. 



1. Colocasia esculenta, Sch. 



Shot Eddoe, Indian Kale. From E. Indies. " Taro " is the 

 general name for the species of Colocasia; C. esculenta is also called 

 " Scratch coco." 



2. Caladium maculatum, Lodd. 

 Bleeding heart. E. and W. Indies. 



3. C. tricolor, Vent., etc. 



Bleeding heart. E. and W. Indies. 



4. Richardia iEthiopica, Kunth. 



White Arum, Calla Lily. From Cape of Good Hope. 



The rhizomes and leaves of Aroideae contain an acrid juice, some- 

 times a violent poison ; but an abundance of nutritive starch is 

 obtained from the rhizomes of Colocasia and Caladium, the Eddoes 

 Aroideae are said to have diuretic and expectorant properties. 



Order XVI. LILIACEAE. 



1. Yucca aloifolia, Linn. 



Adam's Needle, Spanish Bayonet, Dagger Plant. From South- 

 ern U. S. 



2. Lilium candidum, Linn. 

 In gardens. 



3. L. Japonicum, Linn. 

 Easter lily. 



4. Polianthes tuberosa, Linn. 



Tuberose. In gardens. From E. Indies. 



5. Aloe vulgaris, Willd. 



Medicinal aloe. East and West Indies. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



6. Allium, 



Several species cultivated, onions, leeks, etc. 



The bulbs of lilies are rich in starch, and in some places are 

 used as food. The fruits of Yucca are purgative ; its leaves afford 

 fibre used in paper-making. The roots of some species are used for 

 soap in Southern Colorado, New Mexico, etc., a use apparently 

 unknown in the West Indies. Aloes have never been cultivated 

 to any extent, though conditions are favorable. 



Order XVII. SMILACEAE. 



1. Smilax Havanensis, Jacq. (Swains.) 



China-withe. Indigenous or from Jamaica. 



The various species of Smilax furnish Sarsaparilla, well known 

 as an alterative. The root of a Smilax, apparently S. balbisiana, is 

 known here as China-root, and is used by the bush-doctors in 

 syphilis. 



Order XVIII. COMMELYNEAE. 



1. Tradescantia discolor, Sw. 



Oyster-plant. Naturalized from West Indies. 



2. Commelyna elegans, Kth. 



Little is known of the properties of this order. The name 

 "Oyster-Plant" is taken from the appearance of the flower-buds. 



Order XIX. CYPERACEAE. 



1. Cyperus polystachyus, Rottb. 



2. C. compressus, L. 



3. C. Luzulae, Rottb. 



4. C. rotundus, Linn. 

 Nut grass. 



5. C. Vahlii, Steudel. (Herrick.) 



6. Cladium occidentale, Schrad. (Griseb.) 

 Prickly Sedge. 



7. Rhynchospora . c p. 1 



8. Scleria filiformis, Sw. 



9. Dichromena leucocephala, Michx. 

 Common. 



10. Fimbristylis spadicea, Vahl. 



Members of this family have very few useful properties. I do 

 not know of any that are used medicinally in this colony. The 

 rhizomes of C. rotundm are said to be diuretic and astringent. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Order XX. GRAMINEAE. 



1. Arthrostylidium, sp. ? 

 Bamboo. West Indies. 



2. Chusquea sp. 1 

 Bamboo. West Indies. 



3. Bambusa vulgaris, Schrd. 



Bamboo. In a few gardens. Cosmopolitan, common throughout 

 tropical Asia and America. Height 100 ft. or more. Used for 

 house building, water pipes ; young stems for paper making, for 

 which purpose it is cultivated in East and West Indies. 



4. Eragrostis plumosa. 



5. E. pectinacea, Gray. 



6. E. ciliaris, Lk. 



7. Sporobolus Virginicus, Kth. 



8. S. tenacissimus, P. B. 



9. Stipa. sp.T 

 Feather grass. 



10. Oryza sativa, L. 



Rice. Cultivated sparsely. China. 



11. Chloris ciliata, Sw. 



12. Chloris radiata, Sw. 



13. Dactyloctenium iEgyptiacum, Willd. (Hjalmars.) 



14. Eleusine Indica, G. 



15. Cynodon Dactylon, Pers. ( Griseb.) 

 Bahama Grass, Devil grass. 



16. Paspalum* 

 Wire grass. 



17. Digitaria sanguinalis, Scop. 



18. Stenotaphrum Americanum, Schrk. 



19. Panicum grossarium, L. 



20. P. divaricatum, L. 



21. P. dichotomum, L. 



22. Setaria glauca, P. B. 



23. Cenchrus echinatus. 



A decumbent variety. {Hjalman.) Bur Grass. 



24. C. hirsutus, L. (Merrick.) 



Courage Bush. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1889. 



25. C. tribuloides, L. (Herrick.) 



26. Tricholaena leucophaea. 



27. Andropogon Schoenanthus, L. 



Lemon Grass, Citronella. India. Grows wild and cultivated, 

 yields essential oil used in perfumery. 



28. Anatherum macr urum, Gr. 

 Fox Tail Grass. 



29. Saccharum officinarum. L. 



Sugar Cane, cultivated, originally from Asia. See in this connec- 

 tion, " Remarks on the East India and other Canes imported into 

 the French Caribbean Islands, and lately introduced into the 

 Island of Antigua, by Sir John Laforey, Bart, in Edward's Hist. 

 of Brit. Col. in the W. I. Preface to 2nd Edit. p. 32. 



30. Zea Mais. L. 



Indian Corn, Maize. According to Edwards (Hist, of the West 

 Indies, I, p. 15), this name is derived from the word " Mahez," 

 applied by the aborigines of the West Indies to this plant. Cul- 

 tivated. America. 



31. Sorghum vulgare, Pers. 



Guinea Corn, cultivated ; from the old World. 



32. Uniola paniculata, L. {Swains.) 



Spike Grass. Common along sand beaches in the Bahamas, as 

 well as along southern coast of U. S. 



Grasses are valuable as food for cattle and for man. In the 

 Bahamas, Maize and Guinea Corn are much used, and also Sugar 

 Cane, though but little sugar is made, owing to the prohibition of the 

 manufacture of rum. The cane is of poor quality, short-jointed, fibrous 

 and deficient in sugar, and is used mainly au naturel as a sweetmeat. 

 Cane syrup is made in small quantity and used instead of molasses or 

 maple syrup. The true Bamboo (Bambusa) is grown in some gardens. 

 Arthrosty Helium and Chusquea, known as Wild Bamboo, are more or 

 less twining plants found in the bush. The lemon-grass, A ndropogon 

 Schoenanthus, is made into a cooling febrifuge. Cynodon Daietylon 

 is emollient and aperient. A troublesome grass, known as Bur- 

 Grass, grows abundantly, and in Andros and other islands, accord- 

 ing to Governor Blake, renders the raising of sheep or cattle impos- 

 sible, it having a very rough bur. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



ANGIOSPERMIA. 



DICO TYLED ONES. 



Order. I RANUNCULACEAE. 



1. Clematis Vitalba, Linn. 



Virgins Bower. Indigenous and nearly cosmopolitan. 



2. Delphinium, sp.? 



Larkspur, Stavesacre. Indigenous from old world. Seeds con- 

 tain active principle, yield an extremely acrid poisonous alkaloid 

 called Delphinia, originally employed as a cathartic, but discarded 

 because of its violent action ; and to destroy parasites. 



This order chiefly inhabits temperate and cold climates. Most of 

 its members have acrid and vesicant properties and aresometimes|very 

 poisonous. 



Order II. ANONACEAE. 



1. Anona muricata, L. 



Sour Sop. West Indian. 



2. A. palustris. L. 



Alligator Apple, Cork Wood, Monkey Apple. Common on 

 low islands near the sea, unpalatable to man, liked by alligators. 

 West Indian and South American. 



3. A. sericea, L. 



Sweet Sop. West Indian. 



4. A. squamosa, L. 



Sweet Sop, Sugar Apple. W. I. 



5. A. reticulata, L. 



Custard Apple. W. I. " Bullock's Heart." 



6. A. laurifolia, Dun. (Catesb.) 

 Tree like the peach only taller. 



The fruits of this order are well known. That of Anona palustris 

 is said to be narcotic, but I have eaten it with impunity. The wood 

 of the same plant is exceedingly light and compressible, and can be 

 used instead of cork. It is said in the Bahamas that a decoction of 

 the root of A. muricata is an antidote to fish poison and will destroy 

 Chigoes. A leaf of A. squamosa laid on a pillow is said to attract 

 bugs, so they can be killed. A. reticulata is employed as an anti- 

 dysenteric and vermifuge. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Order III. P AP AVER ACE AE. 



1. Argemone Mexicana, L. 



Mexican Poppy, Prickly Poppy, Yellow Thistle, Fin-Bush. Nat- 

 uralized, from Mexico and Southern U. S. (Green Turtle), Herrick. 



The narcotic properties of this order are well known. Argemone 

 is used here by the bush doctors for the small-pox. Its seeds have 

 been used elsewhere as a substitute for Ipecacuanha; its juice is 

 said to destroy warts, to be efficacious against bites of venomous 

 serpents, and to be useful in ophthalmia. 



Order IV. CRUCIFERAE. 



1. Sinapis Brassicata, L. 

 Mustard. West Indies. 



2. Lepidium Virginicum, L. 

 Pepper Grass. U. S. 



Besides these species, which are wild, a large number of others are 

 cultivated, including many of the kitchen vegetables, e. g. Cabbage, 

 Cauliflower, Kale, Turnips, Radish, Cress, Sea-Kale, Horse-radish. 

 None of the plants in this order are poisonous. Most of them are 

 anti-scorbutics ; mustard taken internally is an emetic and diuretic, 

 externally a blister. 



3. Cakile sequalis, L'Her. (Hjahnars.) 



Turks Island. 



Order V. CAPPARIDEAE. 



1. Crataeva Tapia, L. 



Garlic Pear Tree, native of West Indies, called in Jamaica, Garlic 

 Tree, from odor of its fruit. Catesby says that land-crabs feed on 

 this in the Bahamas. 



2. Cleome pentaphylla, Ti. (S7vains.) 



Mustard, Sambo. Naturalized throughout West Indies. Origi- 

 nally from old world. This is reputed in the Bahamas to have 

 many useful properties. Boiled, it forms an excellent vegetable. 

 Its leaves per se heal sores and relieve the pain of the gout. In oil, 

 they cure skin diseases, especially leprosy. Boiled in water, it 

 causes expectoration and relieves flatulency. The juice of the plant 

 mixed with oil and dropped into the ear relieves deafness. The 

 properties of the order are similar to those of the preceding one. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Order VI. MORINGEAE 



1. Moringa pterygosperma, G. 



Horse-radish Tree, Ben-nut Tree. The root of this tree, finely 

 scraped, is eaten as horse-radish. The oil of Ben, obtained by 

 expression from the seeds, is much used by perfumers, and by 

 machinists, because it does not freeze or become rancid. 



Order VII. VIOLACEAE. 



Species of Viola, such as V. odorata, Sweet Violet, are cultivated 

 in gardens in Nassau for their flowers. 



Order VIII. CANELLACEAE. 



1. Canella alba, Murr. (Grisebac/i.) 



Bahama White Wood Bark, Wild Cinnamon, White Canella, 

 Wild Canella, False Winter's Bark. The bark from tins tree is 

 exported from the Bahamas ; it is known in commerce by the fore- 

 going names. It is an aromatic stimulant, tonic and cordial and 

 yields by distillation an oil with the same properties. 



Order IX. BIXINEAE. 



1. Xylosma nitidum, As. Gray. 



2. X. buxifolium. 



3. Xylosma sp. T 



4. Casearia lactioides. 



5. C. serrulata, Sw. 



All West Indian and indigenous. I know nothing of the uses of 

 any of these plants. The order as a whole has (fully) bitter and 

 astringent properties. Some of its members are poisonous. 



Order X. POLYGALEAE. 



1. Polygala sp.! 



Milk- wort; almost cosmopolitan. 



2. Badiera Domingensis, Jacq. 



Bastard Lignum vitae. West Indies. 



3. Bredemeyera sp. ! 



West Indian and South American. 



This order has tonic and astringent properties. Badiera Domin- 

 gensis is a sudorific like Lignum vita?. Some species of Polygala 

 are said to act as antidotes to snake bites. Bredemeyera is used 

 against syphilis in Trinidad. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Order XI. PORTULACEAE. 



1, Portulaca oleracea, L. 

 Purslane. Tropical countries. 



2. Sesuvium portulacastrum, L. 



Sea-side Purslane. All tropical countries. 



Portulaca is used as a Pot herb and in salads, and is cooling, 

 astringent, antiscorbutic. 



Order XII. TAMARISCINEAE. 



1. Tamarix Indica. Willd. 



Tamarisk. From Asia. Grown in some gardens in Nassau. 



Order XIII. HYPERICINEAE. 



1. Ascyrum hypericoides, L. {Swains.) 



St. Andrew's Cross, Peter's Wort. Indigenous, American, 

 astringent, diuretic. 



Order XIV. G-UTTIFERAE. 



1. Mammea Americana, L. 



Mammee, Mammee Apple. Indigenous in West Indies. Oil of 

 seed used for hair oil. Tree upon being wounded yields thick yel- 

 low gum. Used as a cure for itch, and to prevent Chigoes from 

 attacking the feet. The bark is a powerful astringent, poisonous. 



2. Calophyllum Calaba, Jacq. 



Galba, Santa Maria Wood, Calaba Tree. Fruit contains one 

 seed yielding an oil fit for lamps. Tropical America, West Indies, 

 Brazil. 



The gum-resin secreted by trees of this order is acrid and 

 purgative. The Mammee is a well-known fruit ; its seeds are 

 anthelmintic ; an aromatic liquor (Eau de Creole) is distilled from 

 its flowers. The wood of Calophyllum is fit for shingles and heavy 

 work ; and its resin is useful as an application to ulcers. 



Order XV. MALVACEAE. 



1. Sida carpinifolia, L. 



Wire-weed. Indigenous. America and West Indies. 



2. S. spinosa, L. 



E. & W. I. and America. 



3. S. urens, L. 



Indigenous. America, W. I. and Africa. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



4. Abutilon filiforme, Jacq. 

 W. I. and Africa. 



5. A. permolle, G. Don. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous. 



6. A. Indicum, G. Don. 



7. Abelmoschus moschatus, Mchx. 



Musk Ochra. Native of Bengal, naturalized in all tropical 

 countries. 



8. A. esculentus, W. A. 



Ochra, Gumbo. Naturalized from Africa. 



9. Hibiscus Rosa-Sinensis, L. 



Red Hibiscus. Naturalized from gardens in Asia. 



10. H. Phoeniceus, Jacq. 

 In gardens. 



11. H. Sabdariffa, L. 



Red or Indian Sorrel. In gardens. 



12. Gossypium Barbadense, L. 

 Cotton. Cultivated. America. 



13. G. sp. 



Red or Harbor Island Cotton. Harbor Island, wild. Distin- 

 guished by colored cotton adhering to green seeds. Comparison 

 with specimens of colored cotton in the Botanical Museum of 

 Berlin show this to resemble more nearly Gossypium probiculatum 

 Klstrsch., being of a more uniform reddish-brown than G. religiosum, 

 and not so dark as G. herbaceum var. lana rufa, of Porto Rico and 

 Cuba. (Collected by Krug and Urban.) It is very similar, when 

 manufactured, to Nankeen cotton. Its color resists bleaching agents, 

 sun, acids and alkalies, and has been used by the Harbor Islanders 

 for makino- gloves. Its color seems to become darker in rich soils. 

 Samples sent to the Colonial Exhibition, London, 1886, attracted 

 much and favorable attention. It seems worthy of cultivation. 

 First account Sebartz, Stockh. Handl., 1790. 



14. Eriodendron anfractuosum, D. C. 



Silk-cotton Tree, Ceiba. S. America. Naturalized in West 

 Indies. The large specimen at Nassau is said to have been brought 

 from South Carolina, and to have given rise to all others on the 

 island. 



15. Helicteres Jamaicensis, Jacq. 

 Screw-tree. W. Indian. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



16. H. semitriloba, Berter. (S7vai/ts.) 

 Indigenous. 



17. Tnespesia populnea, Corr. 

 Sea-side Mahoe. Cork-tree. 



18. Malvaviscus arboreus, Cos. 



Var. Sagrceanns, Rich. A shrub. 



19. Sphaeraclea abutiloides, Endl. (Catesby.) 

 N. Providence. 



This order is essentially tropical. Many of its members are 

 cultivated in gardens for their flowers. The swollen calyx of 

 Hibiscus Sabdariffa makes an excellent preserve, somewhat like 

 cranberry, and used similarly. The unripe fruit of Abelmoschvs 

 is a well-known vegetable, valuable for its mucilaginous properties ; 

 it is said to be diuretic and useful in pulmonary diseases ; its seeds 

 are cordial and stomachic, and is said to improve the flavor of 

 coffee. It is also used for scenting pomatum, etc. Most of the 

 members of this order are mucilaginous and have demulcent and 

 emollient properties ; none are deleterious. The stems of species of 

 Sida and Abutilon furnish very tenacious fibre, also Thespesia, whose 

 unripe fruits are used in dyeing, and whose wood is fit for timber. 



Order XVI. STERCULIACEAE. 



1. Melochia pyramidata, L. (A r ic/io/s.) 

 Indigenous. A common weed. 



v » v 



2. M. tomentosa, L. (///a/wars.) 



3. Waltheria Americana, L. 



All tropical countries. This order has similar properties to the 

 preceding one. Waltheria is used as a febrifuge in S. America. 



Order XVII. TILIACEAE. 



1. Triumfetta althaeoides, Lam. 

 Bur-weed. Indigenous. 



2. T. semitriloba, L. 



Bur-bark. Indigenous to all tropical countries. 



3. Corchorus olitorius, L. 



Jew's Mallow, Jute. Introduced from East Indies. Common in 

 Syria where the young sprouts are eaten as a vegetable, like Aspar- 

 agus. It is said to be a favorite with the Jews, hence its name. 

 (Smith Diet. Econ. PI.) 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



4. C. siliquosus, L. 



Broom weed, Jute. W. Indies and S. America. 



5. C. hirsutus, L. (Siva his.) 



This order has similar astringent and mucilaginous properties to 

 those of Malvaceae. The species of Corchorus furnish valuable fibre 

 known as jute, which is employed in the manufacture of many 

 fabrics, from " Gunny bags " to satin ; their young leaves boiled, are 

 excellent pot-herbs. The leaves of Triumfetta are said to be useful 

 astringents. 



Order XVIII. EEYTHEOXYLEAE. 



1. Erytbroxylon brevipes, D. C. 



Eboe light wood, Red wood. Indigenous. 



2. E. obovatum, Macf. 

 Indigenous. 



To this order belongs the plant E. coca, used as a stimulant in 

 Peru and Bolivia, from which the anaesthetic cocaine is obtained. 

 Recent investigations show that the West Indian species contain 

 but very small amount of the alkaloid, and they do not appear to 

 be used as bush-medicine. Some species are used for dyeing, from 

 the red color of the wood. 



Order XIX. MALPIGHIACEAE. 



1. Byrsonima lucida, Ricb. (Swains.) 

 Fortune Island. (Eggers.) 



2. Buncbosia glandulosa, Rich. 



West Indian Cherry. W. I. and S. America. 



3. Malpigbia setosa, Spreng. (Szvains.) 

 Indigenous, also in Hayti. 



4. Malpigbia sp. T 



Near M. glabra. L. Wild Cherry, Barbados Cherry. 



5. Stigmapbyllon Sagraeanum, Juss. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous and in Cuba. 



o 



6. Triopteris rigida, Sw. 



Narrow-leaved variety. (Swains.) Indigenous and in Cuba and 

 Hayti. The plants of this order have medicinal properties and 

 some of them, e. g., Byrsonia, Bunchosia, Malpighia, have eatable 

 fruits. The order is distinctlv tropical. 

 25 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889 



Order XX. ZYGOPHYLLEAE. 



1. Tribulus maximus, L. 



Caltrop. A weed. W. Indian and throughout tropical countries. 



2. Guaiacum sanctum, L. (Stcauis.) 



Lignum vitae, Pock-wood. W. Indian and tropical America. 

 Very plentiful on Acklin Island, Long Cay and Crooked Island, 

 also on Fortune Island. {Eggers.) 



The wood of Guaiacum is largely used on account of its hardness, 

 toughness and durability. The leaves are used for scouring floors. 

 The resin is very valuable medicinally as a stimulant, diaphoretic 

 and alterative, in gout and rheumatism and in syphilis, in which 

 disease it is largely used in the West Indies and in this colony. A 

 purgative syrup is made from the flowers in this colony. 



Order XXI. BALSAMINEAE. 



Species of Impatiens, the Balsam of gardens, are cultivated for 

 their flowers. From the E. Indies. 



Order XXII. AUEANTIACEAE. 



1. Citrus Aurantium, L. 



Sweet Orange, Orange, Curacoa Orange, Nerolia Flowers, Forbid- 

 den Fruit, Golden Apple, Orange Apple. Native of Southern China. 

 Early cultivated in Persia. 



2. C. decumana, L. 



Shaddock. Large ones called Pomeloes and small ones "For- 

 bidden Fruit." Native of China. Introduced into W. Indies 

 early in the 18th Century by Cap't Shaddock, hence the name. 



3. C. racemosus, Ris, et Poit. 



Grape Fruit. Wild in Northern India. Early cultivated in 

 Persia. 



4. C. Limonum, Ress. 



Lemon. Fruit refrigerant, antiscorbutic. Peel furnishes oil of 

 lemon. 



5. C. Bigaradia, Dun. 



Bitter Orange, Seville orange, Bigarade, Cassia lignea. This 

 species is largely used for marmalades, candied orange peel and 

 bitter tinctures. 



6. C. spinosissima, Mey. 

 Lime. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



7. Glycosmis pentaphylla, D. C. 



Mandarin Orange. Cultivated largely in China. 



These various species all come from the E. Indies, China or the 

 Malay Archipelago originally. The fruits are known everywhere. 

 Bahama oranges are of fine quality, and a considerable number are 

 exported to the U. S., but owing to want of care in gathering and 

 packing, their price is low. Many so-called Florida oranges come 

 from the Bahamas. Essential oils, used in perfumery and in the 

 manufacture of liqueurs, are obtained from the rind and flowers. In 

 medicine the acids of these fruits are used as refreshing laxatives 

 and antiseptics. 



Order XXIII. XANTHOXYLEAE. 



1. Xanthoxylum fraxineum, Willd. 

 Prickly Ash, Yellow wood. 



2. X. clava-Her cutis, L. 



Hercules' Club, Prickly Yellow wood. 



3. X. emarginatum, Desco. 



All indigenous. The species of Xanthoxylum are medicinal. In 

 the Bahamas the root of X. clava- Her cults is used as a poultice for 

 ulcers, and the bark is chewed for tooth-ache. The wood yields 

 a yellow dye ; the bark is also regarded as anti-syphilitic in this 

 colony. The young trees are made into walking sticks. 



4. Fagara lentiscifolia, W". (Swains.) 



Order XXIV. SIMARUBEAE. 



1. Picramnia pentandra, Sw. 

 Bitter Wood. West Indies. 



2. Alvaradoa amorphoides, Liebm. (Swains.) 

 Tassel Plant. All tropical coasts. 



3. Piorodendron Juglans, Gr. 



Jamaica Walnut. Jamaica. The plants of this order contain an 

 exceedingly bitter principle, which gives them tonic properties. 

 Picramnia is administered in this colony as a tonic and febrifuge. 



Order XXV. BURSERACEAE. 



1, Bur sera gummifera, L. (Mc. Nab.) 



Mastic Tree, West Indian Birch, Jamaica Birch, Caranna Gum 

 Tree, indigenous to this colony, Jamaica and East Indies. 



2. Amyris sylvatica, Jacq. 



Torch AVood, Shrubby Sweet Wood. W. Indian. Indigenous. 




372 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1889. 



3. Hedwigia balsamifera, Sw. 



Bois cochon, Gum Elemi. West Indian. 



The trees of this family yield resins which are used in the making 

 of gum Elemi. It is said here to be good for pain in the back. 



Order XXVI. MELIACEAE. 



1. Melia Azederach, L. 



Pride of India, Azederach bark, Pride of China, Pride of Winter, 

 Bead Tree, Pride Tree, Hoop Tree, African Lilac, China Tree. 

 Asiatic. Naturalized. 



2. Swietenia Mahogoni, L. (Catesby.) 



Mahogany. W. Indian and tropical American. Fortune Island 



{Eggers.) 



3. Cedrela odorata, L. 



W. Indian Cedar, Jamaica Cedar. Native of Honduras, Jamaica 

 and southern parts of tropical America ; suited to all kinds of cab- 

 inet work, color reddish-brown, alliaceous odor to the leaves and 



bark. 



The trees of this family have many medicinal properties. 

 Melia is purgative and vermifuge, but poisonous in large doses. 

 The bark of the Mahogany is administered in fevers, with quinine, 

 in tropical America. 



Order XXVII. OLACINEAE. 



1. Ximenia Americana, L. 



Wild Olive, Sea-side plum. Tropical America, Africa and Asia. 



2. Schoepfia odorata. {Wall) 

 White beef wood. West Indies. 



Little is known of the properties of this order. 



Order XXVIII. ILICIttEAE. 



1. Ilex montana, Gr. 



Winter berry. W. Indian. 



2, I. macoucoua, Pers. 



Southern West Indies and Brazil. 



The species of Ilex have diuretic and febrifuge properties. 



Order XXIV. CELASTRINEAE. 



1. Myginda pallens, Sw. 

 West Indian. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



The plants of this order contain an acrid principle. The roots 

 and leaves of Myginda are diuretic. 



Order XXX. RHAMNEAE. 



1. Condalia ferrea, Gr. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous and West Indian. 



2. Condalia sp. ? 



3. Colubrina ferruginosa, ISreug. (Swains.) 



Saffron, Snake Wood, Green heart. Indigenous and West Indian. 



4. Gouania Domingensis, L. 

 Chew stick. West Indian. 



The plants of this order have tonic febrifuge properties. Colubrina 

 is employed, in infusion, in fevers in this colony. It is used in dye- 

 ing yellow. Gouania is used, as its popular name shows, as a tooth- 

 brush. It is said to have stomachic properties. 



Order XXXI. AMPELIDEAE. 



1. Ampelopsis quinquefolia, Miehx. 



Virginia Creeper. Introduced from America. 



2. Vitis Caribaea, D. C. 



Jamaica Grape, Water Withe. West Indian and South American. 



3. Cissus sicyoides, L. 



Sarsaparilla, China Root, Wild Yam. West Indian. These 

 plants have acid and cooling properties. 



4. C. acida, L. (Swains.) 



Order XXXII. SAPINDACEAE. 



1. Serjania sp. T 



Tropical America. Climbing shrubs. 



2. Thouinia discolor. Gr. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous. Climbing shrubs. 



3. Melicocca bijuga, L. 



Genip. Introduced from S. America. 



4. Blighia sapida, Koen. 



Akee. Introduced from W. Africa. A handsome tree, 30 feet 

 high. 



5. Hypelata paniculata, Camb. 



Genip. Introduced from Jamaica. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Many of the plants of this order possess a saponaceous principle. 

 Some of these are poisonous in whole or in part. The Genip has 

 eatable fruit and that of the Akee is eatable in part, and is used 

 as a remedy in dysentery ; the Akee is considered poisonous when 

 raw, wholesome cooked. Serjania is very poisonous. 



Order XXXIII. TEREBINTHACEAE. 



1. Rhus Toxicodendron, L. 



Poison Ivy, Poison Oak. America. 



2. K. Metopium, L. 



Burn-wood, Jamaica Sumach, Doctor's Gum, False Hog Gum. 

 W. Indian and America. 



3. Mangifera Indica. L. 



Mango. Introduced from E. Indies. Leaves used for tanning, 

 and powerful purgative and emetic, seeds farinaceous. 



4. Anacardium occidentale, L. 

 Cashew-nut. Tropical America. 



5. Spondias lutea, L. 



Spanish Hog plum. Hog plum of Jamaica. W. Indies. 



6. Comocladia integrifolia, Jacq. 

 Maiden Plum. 



These plants have an acrid, sometimes very poisonous juice, but 

 some of the fruits are largely eaten, e. g. Mango and Cashew-nut. 

 The eatable portion in this last case is the swollen peduncle upon 

 which the nut is borne. The acrid oil in the nut is very poisonous, 

 and is said in the Bahamas to kill Chigoes and cure freckles, and to 

 be useful applied to ulcers. A decoction of the leaves is said also 

 to be a useful wash for ulcers. The Cashew-nut and the Hog-plum 

 are said to be good for dropsy. The fruit of the latter is used for 

 feeding swine. The species of Rhus are poisonous. 



The Mangoes of the Bahamas are of comparatively poor quality, 

 the best are known as " Number Thirteen " — a variety which 

 attains great perfection in Jamaica. 



The island of Itamaraca, off the coast of Pernambuco, is said to 

 produce the finest Mangoes in the Western Hemisphere. 



Order XXXIV. LEGUMHNTOSAE. 



Sub-Order I. MIMOSEAE. 



1. Neptunia plena, Benth. 



Indigenous. West Indies and Tropical America. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



2. Desmanthus virgatus, Willd. 



Indigenous. West Indies and East Indies. 



3. Mimosa Bahameasis, Benth. [Swains.) 

 Sensitive plant. Indigenous. 



4. Leucaena glauca, Benth. [Szvains.) 

 Jumbai, Mimosa, Guaje. West Indies. 



5. Acacia Bahamensis, Gr. [Swains.) 

 Indigenous. 



6. A. tortuosa, Willd. 



West Indies and S. America. 



7. A. Farnesiana, Willd. 



West and East Indies and Africa. 



8. A. Coriophylla, Benth. [Swainson.) 

 Indigenous. 



9. A. acuifera, Benth. [Hjalmars.) 



Indigenous. Turks Island. 



10. A. (Albizzia) Lebbek, Willd. 



Black Ebony, Woman's Tongue. West Indies. 



11. Calliandra Portoricensis, Benth. 

 South America and West Indies. 



12. C. haematomma, Benth. 



A variety having a strigose-pubescent corolla. {Swains.) Indig- 

 enous. 



13. Lysiloma Sabicu, Benth. 

 Horse-flesh, Sabecue. West Indies. 



14. Pitbecolobium Hystrix, Benth. 

 West Indies. 



15. P. Unguis-cati, Benth. [Swains.) 



Ram's horn. 



Sub-Order II. CAESALPINEAE. 



1. Haematoxylon Campechianum, L. 



Logwood, Blockwood, Campeachy wood, Jamaica logwood, Hon- 

 duras logwood, St. Domingo logwood. W. Indies and Tropical 

 America. 



2. Guilandina Bonduc, L. 



Yellow Nicker, Bonduc nut, Bonduc seed, Beasor nut, Yellow 

 Nicker tree. Bonduc seed is tonic, astringent, anti-syphilitic, anti- 

 periodic. West Indies. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



3. G. Bonducella, L. 



Slate colored Nicker. W. Indies. Indigenous. 



4. Caesalpinia pulcherrima, Sw. 



Pride of Barbadoes. E. Indies. Introduced by Mr. Saunders in 

 1886 to K P. 



5. C. crista!., Sw. (Swains.) 

 Bahama Braziletto. Indigenous. 



6. Lebidibia coriaria, Schlecbt. 



Divi-Divi. South America and West Indies. 



7. Cassia bicapsularis, L. (Swains.) 

 Senna. Indigenous. West Indies. 



8. C. biflora, L. 



Senna. West Indies. 



9. C. occidentalis, L. 



Negro Coffee, Stinking-wood, Senna. All tropical countries. 



10. C. ligustrina, L. (Dill.) 



11. C. lineata, Sw. 



Senna. Jamaica and Cuba, 



12. C. glandulosa, L. 



Brown Cassia, Dutchman's Butter. West Indies. 



13. C. Chamsecrista, Sw. 



Senna. United States and West Indies. 



14. Tamarindus Indica, L. 



Tamarind, Monkey-Tamarind, Black Tamarind, E. I. Tam- 

 arind, Indian Date. The fruit pulp is laxative, refrigerant, acidu- 

 lous ; leaves anthelmintic, bark tonic. From East Indies. 



15. Paullinia tomentosa, Benth. 

 Mountain Ebony. West Indies. 



16. Poinciana regia. 

 Introduced from Madagascar. 



Sub-Order III. PAPILIONACEAE. (Pea Tribe.) 



1. Crotalaria stipularis, Des. 

 Rattle- wort. West Indies. 



2. C. verrucosa, L. (Griseb.) 

 Indigenous. 



3. C. pumila, Ort. 

 Indigenous. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



4. C. lotifolia, L. 



Jamaica and Tropical Africa. 



5. C. retusa, L. (Griseb.) 



6. Alysicarpus vaginalis, Dc. 

 Introduced from West Indies. 



7. Desmodium incanum, Dc. (Szvains.) 

 Honey suckle. Indigenous. 



8. D. tortuosum, Dc. 



Cock's-head. Florida, South America and West Indies. 



9. Stylosanthes procumbens, Sw. 



Trefoil. Indigenous. Common in pastures. 



10. Arachis hypogsea, L. 



Pea-nut, Ground-nut. Naturalized from Brazil. 



11. Centrosema Virginianum, Benth. 

 Var. angustifolium. (Hjalmars.) 



12. Brya ebenus, Dc. 



Green Ebony. West Indies. 



13. Abrus precatorius, L. 



Wikl Liquorice, Crab's Eyes, Black-eyed Susan Tree, naturalized 

 from East Indies. 



14. Rhynchosia minima, Dc. 



Red bead vine, Wort herb. America, West Indies and Africa. 



15. Rhynchosia, sp. ? 



16. Cajanus Indicus, Spreng. 



Pigeon Pea, Congo Pea, Called in India, Dhal ; from Asia. 



17. Galactia filiformis, Benth. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous and in East Indies and Australia. 



18. G. pendula, Pers. 

 Jamaica. 



19. Phaseolus lunatus, L. 



Lima or Sugar bean. West Indies, Tropical America, Africa 

 and Asia. 



20. P. semi-erectus, L. 



West Indies, South America and East Indies. 



21. Canavalia obtnsifolia, Dc. 



Red Sea-side bean. West Indies, South America, Australia and 

 East Indies. 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



22. Mucuna urens, Dc. 



Horse-eye bean. West Indies and Brazil. 



23. Erythrina corallodendron, L. 



Coral Tree, Red bean tree. "West Indies and South America. 



24. Piscidia Erythrina, L. {Sivains.) 



Jamaica Dogwood. West Indies. Used for poison by " surging " 

 boughs, or bag containing bruised bark, leaves or roots in water. 

 Bark, narcotic, sedative. 



25. Peltophorum adnatum, Gr. (Swains.) 



26. Sophora tomentosa, L. 



All along tropical sea shore. 



This large order yields more substances, useful in medicine and 

 the arts than any other in the vegetable kingdom. Many of the 

 plants enumerated above possess useful properties. Leucaena affords 

 fodder for horses, but causes their tails and manes to fall off. 

 Many species of Acacia yield gums sold as gum Arabic. A. Fame- 

 siana has flowers which yield a perfume known as Cassie; it is 

 cultivated in other countries on this account. It also yields a valu- 

 able gum. A. Lebbek yields an ornamental wood. 



The species of Acacia have powerful astringent properties and are 

 so used in medicine. The species of Calliandra have very beautiful 

 flowers. Lysiloma furnishes a most valuable timber, well known in 

 Cuba as Sabecue, in the Bahamas as " horse-flesh mahogany." The 

 bark of Pithecolobium is astringent. 



Haemato.xylon. is the well-known dye wood, and has tonic and 

 astringent properties. Guilancllna produces the yellow and slate- 

 colored Nicker beans. They have tonic properties and have been 

 used successfully in intermittent fevers. Caesalpinia pulcherrima is 

 a handsome garden shrub, and in the East Indies its leaves are 

 used as Senna. C. crista is the Bahama Braziletto, valuable as a 

 dye wood. Lebidibia coriaria is the Divi-Divi, whose pods are used 

 in tanning, on account of their great astringency. The leaves of 

 the various kinds of Cassia are much used as purgatives under the 

 name of Senna. Tamarindus, a handsome tree, yields the slightly 

 laxative fruit known as Tamarind. The buds and flowers of Pav.l- 

 linia are used in dysentery. Crotalaria furnishes useful fibre for 

 rope, etc. Arachis, the ground-nut, or pea-nut, is interesting in 

 many ways. It ripens its fruit under ground. Its seeds are excellent 

 for eating when roasted slightly, and if the roasting be continued, 

 they can serve as a substitute for coffee. The oil expressed from 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



them can be used for cooking, and is an excellent substitute for 

 olive oil. Brya JEbenus furnishes a beautiful wood for fancy work. 

 The handsome scarlet and black seeds of Abrus precatorius are used 

 as ornaments, they are said to be poisonous. The roots form a good 

 substitute fur liquorice. The seeds of Rhynchosia are used for beads. 

 Cajanus is the pigeon pea, valuable as an article of food. Phaseolus 

 lunatus, the Lima bean, is an excellent table vegetable. Canavalia 

 produces the red sea beans or Nickers. The beautiful horse-eye 

 beans come from Mucuna wrens, the hairs of which, known as Cow- 

 itch, are used sometimes as a mechanical anthelmintic. The juice 

 of Cassia occidentalis is said here to be good for eruptions. Its 

 roots are diuretic. 



Order XXXV. ROSACEAE. 



Of the nine tribes into which this order is divided in Le Maout's 

 and Decaisne's Botany, two only, Amygdaleae and Chrysobalaneae, 

 are represented in the wild flora of the Bahamas. One other Roseae 

 is cultivated in gardens. 



Tribe ROSEAE. 



1. Rosa, Rosa. 



Many kinds of roses are cultivated here, where they attain great 

 perfection, and bloom throughout the year. 



Tribe AMYGDALEAE. 



1. Prunus sphaerocarpa, Sw. (Catesb.) 

 Indigenous. West Indies. 



Tribe CHRYSOBALANEAE. 



1. Chrysobalanus Icaco, L. (Griseb.) 



Cocoa-plum. Indigenous. West Indies and in Tropical Africa: 

 This fruit is eaten fresh and preserved ; the bark and leaves are a 

 remedy in diarrhoea 



Order XXXVI. CRASSULACEAE. 



1. Bryophyllum calycinum. S. 



Life Plant ; from Asia, now naturalized throughout West Indies 

 and Tropical Africa. This plant is well known, from the power it has 

 of producing buds from the margin of the leaves, which afterward 

 become complete plants. Its leaves are said to be a cure for head- 

 ache, and the juice is said to allay inflammation. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Order XXXVII. RHIZOPHOREAE. 



1. Rhizophora Mangle, L. 



Mangrove. Indigenous. West Indies, Tropical America and 

 Africa. The bark is very powerful as an astringent. It is used for 

 tanning and stops bleeding. The fruit is said to be eatable. The 

 Mangrove occupies the low swampy portions of all the Islands. 



Order XXXVIII. MELASTOMACEAE. 



1. Tetrazygia cleagnoides, De. (Herrick.) 

 Black-Torch Berry. 



2. T. angustiflora, Gr. [Swains.) 



Order XXXIX. COMBRETACEAE. 



1. Terminalia Catappa, L. 



Almond Tree, Country Almond. Introduced from the old world. 



2. Bucida Buceras, L. (S-tuains.) 



Olive Bark, Wild or Black Olive. Indigenous. West Indian. 



3. Conocarpus erectus, L. (Swains.) 



Button Tree, Zaragoza Mangrove. Alder. West Indian Variety 

 (a) of Grisebach. The glabrous and silvery-haired varieties grow 

 indiscriminately together in small woods on Fortune Island. ( Eggers.) 

 Indigenous and in West Indies, Tropical America and Africa. 

 No special use. 



4. Quisqualis Indica. 



In gardens. Introduced from Tropical Asia and Africa. 



This order possesses astringent properties, on which account the 

 fruits of species of Terminalia are used for tanning. T. Catappa is 

 a handsome tree. Its fruits are eatable and somewhat resemble 

 almonds, whence its name. 



Order XL. MYRTACEAE. 



1. Jambosa vulgaris, Dc. 



Rose Apple. Naturalized from India. Rose apples constitute a 

 part of the food of Maerowus iaterhousii, American Leaf-nosed Bat. 



2. Eugenia buxifolia, W. 

 Indigenous. West Indies. 



3. Eugenia, sp., near E. Poiretii De. 



West Indies. 



4. E. monticola, Dc. ( Griseb.) 



Stopper, small leaved Rod-wood. Indigenous and in Jamaica. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



5. E. axillaris, Poir. 



Stopper, Broad-leaved or Red Rod-wood. Indigenous and in 



Jamaica. 



6. E. lateriflora, Willd. 

 Cuba. 



7. E. uniflora, L. (Grisei.) 



Surinam Cherry. Indigenous and West Indian. 



8. E. ligustrina, W. (Griseb.) 



Indigenous and West Indies and S. American. 



9. Pimenta vulgaris, W. A. 



Pimento, Allspice. In gardens. Introduced from Jamaica. 



10. P. acns, W. A. 



Bay Rum Tree, Wild Cinnamon, Bay Berry Tree. West Indies 

 and South America. In gardens. 



11. Psidium Guava, Radd. 



Guava, Bay Plum. Naturalized originally from Continental 

 Tropical America. Leaves astringent. Many members of this 

 order contain aromatic volatile oils, and so are used in the prepara- 

 tion of condiments, e. g. Pimento. Others have eatable fruits such 

 as Psidium, various species of Eugenia and Jambosa. Some of the 

 oils, such as that of Pimento, are used in medicine as carminatives. 

 The bark of the Guava is astringent. 



Order XLI. L.YTHRARIEAE. 



1. Ammannia latifolia, L. 

 Indigenous. West and East Indies. 



2. Cuphea Parsonsia, P., Br. 

 Indigenous. Jamaica and Cuba. 



3. Lawsoniainermis, L. 



Henna Mignonette Tree. West and East Indies. • 



4. Lagerstroemia Indioa, L. 



Crape Myrtle, Crape Plant. Cultivated ; from Asia. 



Ammannia is used in India as a vesicant, from its acrid juice. 

 Laivsonia yields the famous Henna, used as a dye in Assyria and the 

 East. The Crape-myrtle is a beautiful garden-plant. 



Order XLII. GRANATBAB. 

 1. Punica granatum, L. 



Pomegranate. Naturalized originally from Persia. The dried 

 flowers, fruit and the bark of the root are used as anthelmintics. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Order XLIII. ONAGRARIEAE. 



1. Jussiaea angustifolia, Lam. 



West Indies and South America. 



2. Fuchsia sp. ? 



American. Cultivated in gardens. This order does not possess 

 any marked properties. 



Order XLIV. TURNEEACEAE. 



1. Turnera ulmifolia, L. 



Holly Rose, Sage Rose. Indigenous and West Indies. 



2. Triads microphylla, Gr. (S7vains.) 



Indigenous, and in Cuba and Hayti. Turnera ulmifolia has tonic 

 and expectorant qualities. 



Order XLV. PASSIFLOREAE. 



1. Passiflora lunata, Juss. 

 Indigenous and West Indies. 



2. P. suberosa, L. 

 Var. West Indies. 



3. P. multiflora, L. 

 West Indies. 



4. P. rubra, L. 



West Indies and South America. 



5. P. laurifolia, L. 



Water lemon. Antigua and Guadaloupe. 



6. P. pectinata, Gi. (Hjalmars.) 



White Passion Flower. Indigenous, Turks Island and Fortune 



Island. {Eggers.) 



7. P. oiliata, Ait. (Griseb.) 



White Passion Flower. Indigenous and Jamaica. 



8. P. cuprea, L. (Linn.) 



Crimson or Maroon-colored Passion Flower. Indigenous and 

 in Cuba. 



9. Carica Papaya, L. 



Papaw, Custard apple. Cultivated. West Indies. Tree and 

 fruit full of acrid, milky juice, palatable when eaten with sugar, 

 flavor of apricots ; half ripe fruit pickled. 



Some of the Passion flowers, as P. rubra (Dutchman's Laudanum), 

 and, apparently, P. laurifolia are narcotic, others have eatable fruits. 

 The fruit of the papaw is eaten and its seeds are said to be anthel- 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



mintic. The leaves can be used as a substitute for soap. A fer- 

 ment similar to pepsin is present in the juice and leaves, and hence 

 they have a remarkable power of making tough meat tender, 

 though many Nassau people are skeptical about this. 



Order XLVI. CUCURBITACEAE. 



1. Lagenaria vulgaris, Ser. 



Bottle Gourd. Naturalized in all tropical countries. Originally 

 from India. 



2. Luffa acutangula, Rox. 



Strainer vine. Naturalized from East Indies. 



3. Momorclica Balsamina, L. 



Balsam Apple. Naturalized from Asia, probably. Known in 

 Egypt from time of Moses to present day. 



4. Cucumis sativus, L. 

 Cucumber. Cultivated. 



5. C. Anguria, L. 



Wild Cucumber. Known in Egypt and in Rome by the ancients. 

 Orig-inallv from India. 



6. C. Melo, L. 



Musk-melon. Cultivated. Orisfinallv from India. 



7. C. Citrullus, Schrad. 



Water-melon. Cultivated. Originally from Tropical Africa. 



8. Cucurbita Pepo, L. 



Pumpkin. Cultivated. From Africa, probably. 



9. C. maxima, L. 

 Gourd. 



10. Cucurbita sp. ? 



Squash. From tropics of the Old World. 



11. Seohium edule, Sw. 



Chow-chow, from Jamaica. Cultivated throughout West Indies. 



The plants of this order all possess an acrid, purgative property, 

 though many are excellent fruits and vegetables. The seeds of 

 Lagenaria are purgative, and the fruit of Luffa is violently so. 

 From this latter plant is obtained the substance known as vegetable 

 sponge. A decoction of the roots of the Balsam Apple is said to 

 be good for jaundice, while the distilled water from its leaves and 

 fruit is a wash for St. Anthony's fire. The oil from the fruit is 

 good for buzms. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Order XLVII. CACTEAE. 



1. Echinocactus, sp. ? 



Inagua and Southern Islands. Indigenous to Mexico and South 

 America. 



2. Melocactus communis, DC. 



Turk's Head Cactus. Wild in Acklins Island, etc. One or two 

 specimens in gardens in Nassau. Common in Turk's Islands, which 

 obtained their name from its abundance. 



3. Cereus Swartzii, (Jr. 



Dildo. Southern Islands, from Jamaica. 



4. C. pellucidus. 



5. C. repandus, Haw. 



Torch Thistle. Southern Islands. From Jamaica. 



6. C. triangularis, Haw. 



Night-blooming Cereus, Prickly-withe. New Providence and 

 all Islands, Jamaica and Mexico. 



7. C. grandiflorus, Haw. 



Night-blooming Cereus. All Islands ; from Jamaica and Mexico. 



8. Opuntia Tuna, Mill. 



Prickly pear? Cochineal pear. Indigenous. 



9. 0. Ficus-Indica, Mill. 

 Prickly Pear. Indigenous. 



10. 0. triacantha, Mill. 



Indigenous to Southern Islands, e. g. Watling's and Conception. 

 This order possesses sub-acid and cooling properties. The fruit 

 of Opuntia is eatable, and has diuretic properties. 



Order XLVIII. UMBELLIFERAE. 



1. Hydrocoytle umbellata, L. 



Pennywort, Sheep's bane. American and West Indian. 



2. Pastinaca sativa, L. 



Parsnip. Introduced originally from Europe. 



3. Daucus Carota, L. 



Carrot. Introduced, originally European. 



4. Anethum graveolens, L. 



Dill. Cultivated for its aromatic fruit, known as seeds, similar 

 to caraway. Dill water is obtained by distilling the fruits. Intro- 

 duced from Asia. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



5. Foeniculum vulgare, Gsertn. 



Fennel. Anise of New Testament. Introduced from Europe. 

 Native of Southern Europe and Western Asia; appears to have 

 been cultivated in Palestine. 



6. Petroselinum sativum, Hoffman. 

 Parsley. Introduced from Europe. 



7. Apium graveolens, L. 



Celery. Introduced from Europe. Native of England and 

 Europe and temperate regions of Southern hemisphere. Poisonous 

 in native state. 



8. Pimpinella Anisum, L. 



Anise. Green Turtle Cay. {Herrkk.) 



Most of these plants are cultivated as vegetables. Some have 

 medicinal properties also ; Hydrocotyle is used as a remedy for leprosy. 

 Anethum is carminative, said to be useful in dyspepsia and colic. 

 Fennel is stimulating. The root of celery is aperient. The juice of 

 parsley is emollient and diuretic, and said to cure dropsy. 



Order XLIX. CAPRIFOLIACEAE. 



1. Lonicera sp. ? 



Honey suckle. Indigenous. From Europe and America. 



2. Viburnum Opulus, L. 



Guelder Rose, Cranberry Tree, High Cranberry Bush, Snow 

 Pall. In gardens. Common along Alleghenies in U. S., in wild 

 state. 



3. Sambucus nigra, L. 



Elder. Introduced from Europe. All parts of the Elder are 

 said to be laxative and diuretic; an ointment made from the leaves 

 is useful in skin affections. Viburnum is emetic and purgative. 



Order L. RUBIACEAE. 



1. Exostemma Caribaeum, R. S. 



Sea-side beech, Prince-wood Bark, Jamaica Bark, West India 

 Bark. Throughout the West Indies. Indigenous. 



2. Hamelia, sp. ? 



Prince-wood, Spanish Elm. Indigenous. 



3. Catesbaea spinosa, L. [Swains.) 

 Lily-thoru, Catesby-thorn. Indigenous. 



4. C. parviflora, Sw. 



Indigenous and in Cuba and Jamaica. 

 26 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



5. Randia'aculeata, L. [Swains.) 



Indigo-berry, Ink-beriy, Box-berry. Indigenous. 



6. Gardenia florida, L. 



Cape Jasmine. In gardens. Cape of Good Hope. 



7. Guettarda elliptica, Sw. 



Velvet-seed. Indigenous and in Cuba and Mexico. 



8. G. scabra, Lam. [Swains.) 

 Indigenous, and in West Indies. 



9. Erithalis fruticosa, L. 



Var. odorifera Jacq. (Swains.) Indigenous and West Indian. 



10. Erithalis, sp. ? 



11." Chiococca racemosa, Jacq. (Swains.) 



Snow-berry. Indigenous and W. Indian. 



12. Coffea Arabica, L. 



Coffee. A few plants. Introduced from Africa. 



13. Strumpfia maritima, Jacq. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous; on maritime rocks. 



14. Psychotria undata, Jacq. ( Griseb.) 

 Indigenous and in Jamaica. 



15. P. pubescens, Sw. 

 Indigenous and in Jamaica. 



16. Psychotria lanceolata, Xutt. (Swains.) 



17 Spermacoce, sp.? 



Button-wood. Indigenous. 



18. Galium hypocarpium, Endl. 

 A weed. West Indies. 



19. Stenostomum myrtifoiium, Gr. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous. 



20. Emodea littoralis, Sw. 



Branched Spurge. Indigenous and West Indian. 



21. Phialanthus myrtilloides, Gr. (Swains.) 



22. Borreria thymifolia, Gr. (Hjalmars.) 

 Button- weed. Turk's Island. Indigenous. 



23. Rhachicallis rupestris, I>c. (Swains.) 



Called by the fishermen, " sea-weed." " It is perhaps the most 

 characteristic shrub of many of the larger Cays. It is prostrate or 

 partly erect, and has dark-green, sprayey foliage and minute saf- 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



fron flowers. It is usually confined to rocks along the shores." 

 (Herrick.) 



24. Genipa clusiifolia, Gr. (Stvains.) 



Seven-year Apple. Fragrant, has colored flowers and a hard 

 green fruit as large as a walnut. 



Many members of this order possess valuable medicinal properties. 

 Many are tonic and astringent. Quinine is obtained from one, and 

 others have similar properties, especially Exostemma. The snow- 

 berry tree has a diuretic fruit. The root is used here as an anti- 

 syphilitic, and said to have attenuant properties, and to be cathartic 

 and emetic. 



Order LI. COMPOSITE. 



1. Vernonia Bahamensis, Gr. (Swains.) 

 Flea-bane. Indigenous. 



2. Ageratum conyzoides, L. 



Bastard Hemp- Agrimony. West Indies. 



3. Eupatorium aromatisans, D. C. 

 Thorough-wort, Hemp-Agrimony. West Indies. 



4. E. villosum, Sw. (Swains.) 



5. E. foeniculaceum, Willd. 

 West Indies. 



6. E. conyzoides, V. (Sivains.) 

 Indigenous and West Indies. 



7. E. ageratifolium, Dc. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous and in Cuba and Mexico. 



8. E. integrifolium, Berb. 



9. E. repandum, W. (Swains.) 



10. Erigeron tenuis, F. & G. 

 Flea-bane. 



11. Baccharis angustifolia, Michx. 

 Dog-bush. Indigenous and in Florida. 



12. B. dioica, V. (Swains ) 



Turk's Island. (Hjalwars.) Indigenous and in West Indies. 



13. Pluchea odorata, Cass. (Swains.) 



River-side Tobacco. West Indies and America. 



14. P. purpurascens, Dc-. (Swains.) 




.'INS PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



15. Pluchea, sp. 



16. Xanthium struraarium, L. 

 Cockle-bur. America. 



17. Acanthospermum humile, Dc. 

 Jamaica and Cuba. 



18. Parthenium Hysterophorus, L. (Swains.) 



White-bead, Wild Wormwood, Bastard Fever-few. Indigenous 

 from Southern United States to Patagonia. 



19. Ambrosia artemisiaefolia, L. 



Wild Tansy. Indigenous. Canada to Brazil. 



20. A. crithmifolia, Dc. 



Turk's Island. (Hjalmars.) Fortune Island, very common. (Eggeri.) 



Indigenous. 



21. Ambrosia, sp.? 



22. Eciipta alba, Hask. 

 Indigenous throughout the world. 



23. Isocarpa oppositifolia, R. Ba. {Sivains.) 



24. Borrichia arborescens, Dc. (Swains.) 



Sea-side Ox-eye, Samphire, Rock Samphire. Turk's Island. 

 (Hjalmars.) Indigenous. 



25. Wedelia buphthalmoides, Gr. (Szvains.) 

 Ox-eye. Indigenous in W. Indies. 



26. W. carnosa, Rich. [Swains.) 



Marigold. Indigenous. West Indies and Tropical America. 



27. Melanthera deltoidea, Rich. (Szvains) 

 Indigenous. West Indies. 



28. Bedins bipinnata, L. 



Spanish Nettle, Be.'gar's Ticks, Shepherd's Needle. West Indies 

 and throughout America and the old world. 



29. B. leucantha, W. (Herrick.) 

 Beggar's Ticks. 



30. Salmea petrobioides, Gr. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous. 



31. Pectis linifolia, Less. 

 Indigenous. 



32. Helianthus tuberosus, L. 



Jerusalem Artichoke; cultivated in a few gardens; originally 

 from America. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



33. Lactuca sativa, L. 



Lettuce; cultivated; from Southern Europe. 



34. Artemisia vulgaris, L. (Herrick.) 

 Common Mug-wort. Green Turtle Cay. • 



35. A. hispida, Pursh. (Herrirk.) 



Bastard Geranium. 



36. Zinnia multiflora. L. (Srvains.) 



Most of the plants in this order possess a bitter principle, which 

 renders them tonic. Erigeron is diuretic and much used in diseases 

 of the kidneys. The species of Eupatorium are said to have stim- 

 ulant and tonic properties for snake bites. The seeds of Vernonia 

 are anthelmintic. The thickened juice of old plants of the common 

 lettuce is highly narcotic, and is used as a substitute for opium in 

 some cases, and as a nervine. Eupatorium is extensively used as a 

 remedy for malaria. 



Order LII. GOODENOVIEAE. 



1. Scaevola Plumieri, L. (Swains.) 



Low shrub, along the sea coast. Abaco. 



Order LIII. ERICINEAE. (Heath Family.) 



1. Clethra tinifolia, Sw. 



Soap-wood, Wild Pear, Bastard Locust Tree. Indigenous and 



in Jamaica. 



This plant does not appear to be of use for anything. The order 

 has astringent properties. Its leaves and flowers are used as a 

 diaphoretic ; they are saponaceous and detergent. 



Order LIV. PLUMBAGINEAE. 



1. Statice Bahamensis. Gr. {Hjalmars.) 



Turk's Island, [Marsh Rosemary, Sea Lavender. Astringent. 

 Indigenous. 



- 



2. Plumbago scandens, L. 



Leadwort, Toothwort. West Indies. The Plumbago contains 

 a caustic coloring matter. They are said to be alexipharmic. 



Order LV. PRIMULACEAE. 



1. Samolus Valerandi, L. 



Water Pimpernel. Cosmopolitan. This plant is said to be an 



astringent. 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Order LVI. MYRSINEAE. 



1. Myrsine laeta, A. D. C. 



Bully Tree, Black Soft-wood. West Indies and South America. 



2. Ardisia Pickeringia, Torr. and Gray. 

 West Indian. 



3. Ardisia, sp. ? 



4. Jacquinia armillaris, Jacq. [Herrick.) 



Joe-Bush. 



The properties of this order are of little importance. 



Order LVII. SAPOTEAE. 



1. Chrysophyllum Cainito, L. 



Star-Apple. West Indies and South America. Tree 30 to 40 feet 

 high. Popular name derived from transverse section of the seed 

 which has 10 cells. 



2. C. oliviforme, Lam. Var. Monopyrenum Sw. [Swains. ) 

 Damson Plum, Wild Star- Apple. West Indies. 



3. Sapota achras, Mull. [Catesby) 



Sapodilla, said to be a variety (Catesb. Carol. 2, t, 87), Nase- 

 berry. Cultivated. West Indies. 



4. Sideroxylon mastichodendron, Jacq. [Calesby.) 

 Indigenous. West Indies. 



5. Mimusops dissecta, II. Br. (Swains.) 

 Bullet Tree. Indigenous. West Indies. 



6. Dipholis salicifolia, A. D. C. 

 Pigeon-wood, White Bullet-tree. 



7. Bumelia retusa, Sw. 



Ballato Tree. Indigenous. West Indies. 



8. Bumelia, sp. 



This order has several eatable fruits. Other trees are valuable 

 for timber in other colonies, e. g. Sapodilla. The young of many 

 of them yields a substance like India rubber. The bark of these 

 trees is astringent and febrifugal. 



Order LVIII. JASMINEAE. 



1. Jasminum officinale, L. 



2. J. gi'acile, Amir. 



And other species, in gardens from the old world. This order 

 has no medicinal plants. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Order LIX. APOCYNACEAE. 



1. Thevetia nerifolia, Juss. 



In gardens. West Indies and South America. 



2. Rauwolfia nitida, I>. 

 Indigenous. Jamaica. 



3. Tabernaemontana citrifolia, Jacq. 

 West Indies and South America. 



4. Vinca rosea, L. 



Periwinkle. Naturalized from Old World. 



5. Plumiera rubra, L. 



Jasmine Tree, Frangipani ; from South America. 



6. ,P. obtisa, L. (Swains.) 



White Frangipani. Indigenous, This plant is exceedingly- 

 common hi the windward islands of the group. 



7. Mandevillea, sp. 



Chili Jasmine. Naturalized from South America. 



8. Echites subereeta, Jacq. (Rhabdadenia.) 



Described by Herrick as a common and showy climber, often 

 completely covering the lower shrubbeiy, and distinguished by its 

 large lemon-colored flowers, shining leaves and milky juice. 



9. E. n. sp. ? near umbellata, Jacq. (Ca/esb.) 



Wolff road, New Providence. Shrub about 8 feet high, glabrous, 

 flowers in axillary cymes, pedicels geminate, corolla white with violet- 

 purple throat. Anthers hispid on back, follicles united at tips 6-8 

 inches long, other characters like umbellata. Corolla limb 6 inches 

 long. Calyx lobe 1-1 -j inches, Coma 4 inches, 8 Anthers 1J-2 

 inches. 



10. E. neriandra, Ur. (Swains.) 



Harold's road New Providence, and common. 



11. E. paludosa, Vahl. (Swains.) 



12. E. Sagraei, A. D. C. (Sjvains ) 



13. E. Jamaicensis, Gr. (Srvains.) 



14. Nerium Oleander, L. 



Oleander, Rose Laurel, Sweet Oleander, South Sea Rose Natu- 

 ralized from India. 



15. Vallesia glabra, Car. [Swains.) 



16. Forestieracassinoides, Poir. (Hjalmars.) Turk's Island. 



Many of the plants of this order are intensely poisonous and all 

 are to be suspected. Some are strongly purgative, while the bark 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



of others is tonic. The Periwinkle is said here to have sedative 

 properties, resembling those of opium ; an infusion of its flowers is 

 said to he an excellent wash for inflamed eves. Many plants of this 

 order furnish caoutchouc. N. Oleander is narcotic, herpetic, and 

 is used for itch. 



Order LX. ASCLEPIADEAE. 



1. Metastelma, sp. ? 

 Indigenous. W. Indies. 



2. M. Cubense, Decs. [Swains.) 

 Indigenous and in Cuba. 



3. Vincetoxicum palustre, Gray. 



West Indian and European. (Herrick.) 



4. Seutera maritima, Reichenb. [Swains.) 

 Indigenous. American and West Indian. 



5. Asclepias Curassavica, L. 



Bastard Ipecacuanha, Red-head, Blood-flower. West Indies and 

 tropical America. 



6. A. paupercula, Michx. [Herriek.) 

 Milkweed. 



7. Oxypetalum, sp. T 



West Indies and S. America. 



8. Stephanotis floribunda, Thun. 



In gardens ; from Madagascar. 



9. Hoya carnosa, Br. 



Wax-plant. In gardens ; from tropical Asia. 



10. Stapelia maculosa. 



Carrion flower ; from Cape of Good Hope. A pot flower. This 

 order has similar properties to the preceding. Asclepias, as indi- 

 cated by its popular name, is used as an emetic like true Ipeca- 

 cuanha. Vincetoxicum is also an emetic. Many species are culti- 

 vated for the beauty of their flowers. The milky juice is always to 

 be suspected. Some species are said to be antidotes to snake bites, 

 e. g. Vincetoxicum. 



Order LXI. LOGANIACEAE. 



1. Spigelia anthelmia, L. 



Worm-grass, Pink-root. Indigenous. West Indies and Amer- 

 ica. This plant, poisonous when fresh, is, in the dry state, an excel- 

 lent vermifuge 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. d93 



Order LXII. GENTIANEAE. 



1. Eustoma exaltatum. Cr. 

 West Indies and America. 



2. Sabbatia gracilis, Salisb. (Herrick.) 



Joe's Cay, off Little Abaco. A delicate jplaDt which has large 

 rose-colored flowers. This order has tonic and febrifugal properties 

 from the hitter principle which is present in its members. 



Order LXIII. HYDROLEACEAE. 



1. Nama Jamaicensis, L. 



West Indies and America. No use is known. 



Order LXIV. CONVOLVULACAAE. 



1. Ipomoea Batatas. Lam. 



Sweet Potato. Naturalized from South America. 



2. I. sidifolia. Chois. 



Christ m as- Mower. West Indies. 



3. I. Pes-capri, Sw. 



Sea-side Potatoe. West Indies and all tropical countries. 



4. I. coccinea, L. 



West Indies and America. 



5. I. purpurea. Lam. 



United States. West Indies and America. 



6. I. Bona-nox, L. [Do/Icy.) 



Moon-flower. Native of India ; pure white flowers, 5-6 inches in 

 diameter, opening at night and giving out a delicate perfume. 



7. I. arenaria. Steud. (Swait 



8. I. Carolina, L. (Catesb.) 



On rocks. 



9. I. cathartica, Poir. (Swains.) 



Morning-glory. West Indies and S. America. 



10. Convolvulus micranthus, R. S. 

 West Indies and South America. 



11. C. Jamaicensis, Jacq. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous and West Indies. 



12. Evolvulus arbuscula, Loir. (Swains.) 



Indigenous and W. Indies. The plants of this order possess in 

 their rhizomes a highly purgative principle, Jalap ; except I. Bata- 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



tas, in which it is replaced by starch, which renders the rhizome of 

 this plant highly nutritious. 



13. E. sericeus, Sw. (Swains.) 

 On arid maritime rocks. 



14. E. linifolius, L. (Swains.) 

 Arid pastures. 



15. E. mucronatus, Sw. (Hjatmars.) 

 Turk's Island. 



Order LXV. DICHONDREAE. 



1. Dichondra repens, Forst. 



This small order has no known properties. 



Order LXVI. CUSCUTEAE. 



1. Cuscuta Americana, L. 



Dodder. Love Vine ; Mexico, West Indies and 8. America. 



2. C. obtusiflora. Kth. (Swains.) 



Love vine. Indigenous and in Florida and 8. America. 



Plants of this order are parasitic on other plants; they are said 

 to be purgative. An infusion is used here as a wash for sores on the 

 head. 



Order LXVII. BORRAGINEAE. 



1. Tournefortia volubilis, L. (Swains.) 



Basket withe. Indigenous. West Indies and South America. 



2. Tournefortia gnaphalodes, R. Br. (Swains.) 



3. Heliotropium parviflorum, L. (Swains.) 



4. Beurreria tomentosa, Gr. Don. (Swai//s.) 



Currant Tree. Indigenous. West Indies. These plants are 

 harmless and mucilaginous and of little value as medicinal ajrents. 



Order LXVIII. CORDIAOEAE. 



1. Cordia Lima, R. S. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous and in Hayti. 



2. C. Sebestena, Jacq. (Swains.) 



Scarlet Cordia, Aloe Wood. West Indies and S. America. 



3. C. gerascanthoides, Kth. 



PrinceAVood, Prince-Tree, Spanish Elm. West Indian ; Domin- 

 ican rose wood. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Plants of this order have similar properties to those of the pre- 

 ceding one. Prince-wood is a handsome light brown wood, not to 

 be confounded with tonic Prince-wood bark, the product of Exos- 

 temma Caribaeum. Yid. order L. 



Order LXIX. SOLANACEAE. 



1. Nicotiana Tabacum, L. 



Tobacco. Introduced, originally from S. America. 



2. Petunia, sp. ? 



Cultivated in gardens. S. America. 



3. Datura Stramonium, L. 



White Datura, Prickle-Bur, Thorn-Apple. Cosmopolitan, in 

 warm countries. 



4. Datura Tatula, L. 

 Violet Datura. 



5. Brugmansia suaveolens, G-. Don. 



Sweet-smelling Datura. Naturalized from S. America. 



6. Lycopersicum Humboldtii, Dun. 



Small oval Tomato, originally from Peru. 



7. L. esculentum, Mull. 

 Cultivated Tomato. 



8. Capsicum frutescens, L. 



Cayenne Pepper, Bird Pepper ; from South America. 



9. C. annuum, L. 

 Guinea Pepper, Chilies. 



10. Capsicum, sp.T 



Other kinds of peppers are grown. 



11. Solanum nodiflorum, Jacq. 



Night shade, Branched Calalu. West Indies. Used by the Myal 

 men or Obia men of the West Indies as a narcotic, to produce a pro- 

 found sleep of a certain duration. Vid. Edwards, 1. c, Vol. 2, p. 297. 



12. S. Bahamense, L. (Swains.) 



Canker Berry. Indigenous and in Jamaica and Mexico. 



13. S. Melongena. L. 



Egg-plant, Mad-Apple. Cultivated ; from tropical Asia. 



14. S. tuberosum, L. 

 Irish Potato. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



15. S. igneum. 



16. S. aculeatissimum, .Tat-ij. (Herruk.) 



Apple-of-Sodom. Green Turtle Cay. 



17. Brunfelsia, sp. 1 (Herrick.) 



A tall shrub. Green Turtle Cay. 



18. Physalis Linkiana, Griseb. 

 Winter's Cherry. West Indies. 



Very many plants of this order possess useful medicinal and other 

 properties. Tobacco does not grow well in the Bahamas, owing to 

 the poor soil. In medicine, Datura is used externally as a local 

 stimulant ; the seeds are strongly narcotic and poisonous. In spas- 

 modic asthma it is useful, especially when smoked. Externally, it 

 is an anodyne in its action. Here its juice, made with lard into an 

 ointment, is said to be good for ulcers and burns. The juice of the 

 Tomato is used in the Bahamas as an eye wash, and for a cooling 

 wash generally. The various specimens of Capsicum are stimulant, 

 carminative and diuretic and are so used here. The stem, leaves 

 and fruit of the species of Solatium are narcotic, antispasmodic and 

 diuretic. 



Order LXX. CESTRINEAE. 



1. Cestrum pallidum, Lam. (Swains.) 



Bastard Jasmine, Poison berry. Indigenous and West Indies. 



2. C. diurnum, L. 

 Indigenous. 



This order has narcotic and diuretic properties. 



Order LXXI. SCROPHULARINEAE. 



1. Scoparia dulcis, L. 



Liquorice weed, Sweet Broom- Weed. West Indies, tropical 

 America and all tropical countries. 



2. Capraria biflora, L. (Hjalmars.) Turk's Island. 



Goat-weed, West Indian Tea. Indigenous in West Indies. 



3. Buchnera elongata, Sw. 

 West Indian. 



4. Gerardia purpurae. 



5. Linaria vulgaris, Mill. 



Toad Flax. Naturalized from Europe. 



6. Verbascum pulverulentum, Mull. (Herrick.) 

 Green Turtle Cay. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 397 



7. Eusselia juncea, Zuccar. (Dolley.) 



New Providence. Probably introduced from Mexico. 



8. Herpestis Monniera, Ktli. {Swains.) 



The plants of this order must be suspected, as many are poison- 

 ous. Seoparia is tonic and febrifugal. Capraria is sometimes used 

 as tea in the West Indies and Central America. 



Order LXXII. BIGNONIAOBAE. 



1. Tecoma leucoxylon, Mart. (Swains.) 



White wood, white wood cedar. West Indies. 



2. T. stans, Juss. 



Yellow Popper, Yellow Elder, Bignonia. West Indian and trop- 

 ical American. 



3. T. radicaiis, Juss. 



Red Trumpet-flower, Trumpet Creeper ; in gardens ; tropical 

 America. 



4. T. Capensis, G. Don. 



In gardens ; from Brazil. 



5. Jacaranda caerulea, Gr. (Swains.) 

 Cancer-Plant. Indigenous. 



Some species of Tecoma have astringent properties. The leaves 

 of Jacaranda are used in this colony as a cure for cancer, and as an 

 anthelmintic in Panama. Jacaranda Brasiliensis Ger. ' Polisander.' 

 Fr. ' Polisandre' — is a beautiful wood for cabinet making, and might 

 be introduced and cultivated with advantage. Smith (Diet. Econ. 

 Bot.) gives this as ' Palissander' or ' Palixander-wood.' The bark 

 of Tecoma leucoxylon is supposed to be an antidote to Manchineel. 



Order LXXIII. ACANTHACEAE. 



1. Blechum Brownei, Juss. 

 Tropical America and Asia. 



2. Justicia Carthaginensis, Jacq. 



Violet-Justieia. West Indies and South America. 



3. Justicia, sp. 



Several kinds of Justicia are cultivated in gardens on account of 



their flowers. 



4. Anthacanthus spinosus, Gr. (Swains.) 

 Indigenous and West Indian. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



5. Dicliptera assurgens, Juss. (Swains.) 



Indigenous and West India. 



The two last plants are commonly known as Justicia. This or- 

 der has no important properties. 



Order LXXIV. SESAMEAE. 



1. Sesamum orientale, L. 



Benne Oil plant, Naturalized in West Indies from East Indies. 



2. Martynia diandra, Glox. 



West Indies and tropical America. 



The uses of the Benne plant are well known, the seeds are eaten 

 for food like rice. The oil is pungent when first drawn, but later 

 is mild and used for salads, in the adulteration of olive oil and in 

 the manufacture of soaps. The plant is an important one in bush 

 medicine. A decoction of the leaves is said to be useful in coughs, 

 pleurisy, inflammation of the lungs and hard tumors and to cool 

 the blood. The leaves and seeds mixed with honey form a 

 poultice for tumors. The dried leaves powdered over an ulcer will 

 dry it up and heal it, The oil is said to be good for the itch and 

 for pains in the stomach. 



Order LXXVI. VERBENACE^l. 



1. Tamonea verbenacea, Sw. 

 West Indie-. 



2. T. scabra. 



3. Tamonea, sp. 



4. Verbena triphylla. 



Lemon scented Verbena. In gardens, from tropical America. 

 Some other species are cultivated in gardens. 



5. Bonchea Ehrenbergii, Cham. 



W. India and tropical America. 



6. Stachytarpha Jamaicensis, V. (Swains.) 



Blue-flower, Vervain. West Indies and tropics of both worlds. 



7. Lippia nodiflora, Rich. {Swains.) 

 Indigenous and almost cosmopolitan. 



8. L. geminata, Kth. Var. microphylla. (H/almars.) Turk's Island. 



9. Lantana crocea, J acq. (Swains ) 



Wild Sage, yellow. Indigenous in W. Indies. 



10. L. involucrata, L. 



Wild Sage, white or lilac. West Indian and Indigenous. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



11. L. Camara, L. (Swains.) 



Wild Sage, yellow changing to red. Indigenous and West In- 

 dian. 



12. Citharexylum cinereum, L. 



Fiddle-wood, Savanna Wattle. West Indies. 



13. Duranta Plumieri, Jacq. (Swains.) 



Pigeon-berry, Blue-flower. Indigenous and West Indies. 



14. Petitia Domingensis, Jacq. 



Yellow Fiddle-wood, Spur Tree. Greater Antilles. 



15. Avicennia nitida, Jacq. 



" Courida" or Black Mangrove. Bark astringent. 



16. Clerodendron Balfourii. 



Mobile Cologne-plant, " white blossoms like tiny double roses, 

 with many garnet sepals and tracts." Dickinson & Dowd, Loc. cit., p. 

 149. 



Most of the plants of this order are aromatic and bitter, but none 

 have important medicinal properties. The wild sage is used here 

 in infusion as a febrifuge and purgative. Stachyta,7yha is said to be 

 purgative and anthelmintic. In Liberia, it is used to produce abor- 

 tion. Blue-flower tea is a well-known remedy here for fevers ; the 

 leaves are sometimes used to adulterate Chinese tea. 



Order LXXVI. LABIATAE. 



1. Ocimum micranthum, Willd. 

 Basil. West Indian. 



2. Coleus, sp. T 



Several species cultivated in gardens for ornament. 



3. Hyptis suaveolens, Poit. 

 Spikenard. West Indies. 



4. Salvia occidentalis, Sw. 

 Wild Sage. West Indies. 



5. S. coccinea, L. 



Crimson Salvia. West Indies. 



6. S. serotina, L. (Swains.) 



Several species of Salvia, e. g. S. splendens, are cultivated in gar- 

 dens for the flower. 



7. Nepeta coerulea, L. 



Blue catnip. Introduced from the old world. (?) 




401) PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



8. N. Cataria, L. 



White Catnip. Introduced from old world. 



9. Leonurus Sibiricus, L. 



Motherwort. Introduced. Cosmopolitan. 



10. Leonotis nepetaefolia, It. Br. 

 West Indian. 



11. Teucrium Cubense, L. [Swains.) 

 Indigenous, and tropical America. 



12. T. inflatum, Sw. . 



West Indies and tropical America. 



13. Marrubium vulgare, L. 



Horehound. Introduced from old world. 



None of the plants of this order are poisonous, and they are usu- 

 ally aromatic and carminative, and sometimes tonic and stomachic. 

 Basil is said to be stimulant and diuretic, and Salvia has similar 

 properties. Teucrium is a tonic from the presence of a bitter principle . 

 Horehound is also a tonic and is a well-known remedy for coughs. 

 Many of these plants, e. g. Nepeta and Leon ant*, are used in bush 

 medicine. They are probably not of very much use. 



Order LXXVII. PLANTAGINEAE. 



1. Plantago major, L. 



Plantain. Almost cosmopolitan. The leaves are slightly as- 

 tringent, and an eye wash is distilled from the entire plant. 



Order LXXVIII. NYCTAGINEAE. 



1. Mirabilis Jalapa, L. 



Marvel of Peru, Four o'clock Flower, False Jalap. West In- 

 dies and South America. 



2. Bougainvillia spectabilis, Poir. 



Wild. In gardens ;*from South America. 



3. Pisonia aculeata, L. 



Cockspur. West Indies and South America. 



4. P. inermis, Jacq. 

 West Indies. 



5. P. obtusata, Sw. 

 West Indies. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



6. Boerhaavia scandens, L. [Swains ) 



The roots of the plants of this order are purgative and emetic. 

 Mirabilis acts similarly to the true Jalap, but is less efficacious, and 

 is sometimes administered for dropsy. Pisonia is said to be febrifugal 

 and antisyphilitic. 



Order LXXIX. PHYTOLACCACEAE. 



1. Phytolacea icosandra, L. 



Pokeweed, Foxglove, Red weed, Spanish Calalu. West Indies 

 and South America. 



2. Bivinia laevis, L. 

 Hoop-Withe. 



3. Petiveria alliacea, L. 



Guinea-hen's Weed, Strong Man's Weed. Southern United 

 States, Mexico and West Indies. 



4. Suriana maritima, L. [Hjalmars.) 

 Turk's Island. 



Phytolacea is highly purgative ; Petiveria is febrifugal and diuretic. 



Order LXXX. POLYGONEAE. 



1. Polygonum glabrum, W. [Swains.) 



2. Coccoloba uvifera, Jacq. [Swains.) 



Seaside Grape, Lobe Berry. West Indies and S. America. 



3. C. leoganensis, L. 



Grape. Indigenous, and Jamaica and Hayti. 



4. C. tenuifolia, L. 



Grape. Indigenous and Jamaica. 



5. C. punctata, L. 



Grape, Small-leaved Pigeon-wood. West Indies. 



6. Antigonon leptopus, Hook. 



Coral Vine, Coral Plant. Cultivated for ornament in gardens ; 

 West Indies and South America. 



The different species of Coccoloba are well known here as Sea 

 Grape. The fruits are eatable. The wood and bark yield a very 

 strong astringent known as American Kino. Bark used for tanning. 



Order LXXXI. AMAEANTACEAE. 



1. Acb.yrantb.es aspera, L. 



West Indies and all hot countries. 

 27 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



2. Iresine celosioides, L. 



Juba's Bush. West Indies, Southern United States and South 

 America. 



3. Euxolus viridis, Moq. 



West Indies, Southern United States and almost all hot countries. 



4. Amblogyna polygonoides, Raf. (Swains.) 



5. Amarantus spinosus, L. 



Amaranth, Prickly Calalu. West and East Indies, South Amer- 

 ica and Africa. 



6. A. paniculatus. L. {Linn. Mart.) 



7. Gomphrena, sp. T (Herrick.) 



Turtle Grass. " Running prostrate plant with turgid stems and 

 leaves." 



8. Alternanthera Achyrantha, R. Br. [Swains.) 



9. A. flavescens. Moquin. (Herrick.) 



10. Philoxerus vermiculatus, R. Br. (Swains.) 



The properties of this family are unimportant. Achyranthes is 

 said to be an astringent and diuretic. 



Order LXXXII. CHENOPODIEAE. 



1. Batis maritima, L. (Hjalmars.) 

 Turk's Island. 



2. Chenopodium ambrosioides, L. 



Goose-foot, Hedge-mustard. West Indies, South America and in 

 all warm countries. 



3. C. murale, L. 



Naturalized from Europe. Some kitchen vegetables, such as 

 Spinach (Spinacia oleracea) and Beet (Beta vulgaris, Moq.) belong 

 to this order. Chenopodium is an anthelmintic and antispasmodic. 



4. Suaeda linearis, Torr. (Herrick.) 



5. Salicornia ambigua, Michx. (Hjalmars) 

 Turk's Island. 



Order LXXXIII. BASELLEAE. 



1. Basella alba, L. 



White Spinach, Indian Spinach, called Malabar Night in Kew 

 Gardens. Introduced from East Indies. 



2. Boussingaultia baselloides, Eunth. 

 Introduced from South America. 

 Basella alba is eaten as a pot herb. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Order LXXXIV. LAURINEAE. 



1. Persea gratissima, G. 



Alvocado Pear, Alligator Pear, Avocado Pear. Naturalized 

 from Mexico. Leaves used as a medicine. Balsamic, pectoral, vul- 

 nerary; seeds astringent. 



2. Persea Indica. 



Madeira wood. Naturalized from Africa. 



3. Nectandra sanguinea, Rottb. (Swains.) 



Yellow or Lowland Sweet-wood. Indigenous and West Indies. 



4. N. Willdenoviana. 



5. Cassyta Americana, Ns. 



Dodder Laurel. West Indies and South America. 



The fruit of Persea gratissima is well known and esteemed. Nec- 

 tandra furnishes good timber, as does P. Indica. The plants of this 

 order have tonic and stimulating properties. 



Order LXXXV. URTICEAE. 



1. Fleurya aestuans, Gaud. 



Nettle. West and East Indies. 



2. Pilea microphylla, Liebm. 

 Nettle. Jamaica and Cuba. 



These plants have no known properties. 



Order LXXXVI. MOEEAE. 



1. Brosimum Alicastrum, Sw. 



Bread-nut. West Indies and Mexico. Nut eatable when roasted. 

 Wood has fine grain like Mahogany. Nuts eaten by Macrotus 

 Waterhou-sii, American leaf-nosed bat. 



2. Artocarpus incisa, L. 



Bread-fruit, Naturalized from East Indies. Introduced into 

 Jamaica in 1793 after many unsuccessful attempts, by Capt. Win.. 

 Bligh. * 



* The bark is very tough and is beaten out into fine white cloth. 

 by the natives of Otaheite and other Islands of the Pacific. 



3. Ficus pertusa, L. 

 Fijr. Jamaica and West Indies. 



'.- 



4. F. trigonata, L. 



Wild Fig. Green Turtle Cay. 



* Vide Edwards' Hist. Brit. Col. in the W. I. vol. I. Preface to 2nd Edition : . 

 p. 30. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



5. F. elastica, Roxburgh. 



Caoutchouc Tree. In gardens. Introduced. 



6. F. Carica, Willd. 



Fig. This furnishes the well-known fruit ; from the old world. 



7. Maclura tinctoria, Don. 



Fustic. Berries eaten by hats. South America. 



The milky juice of many members of this family is poisonous. 

 The nut of Broshnum is eaten in Jamaica. Maclura gives a valuable 

 dye. The berries of the latter tree furnish a gargle for sore throat 

 used in this colony. Its ashes are also said to be good for rheuma- 

 tism. The plants of this order possess tonic and astringent proper- 

 ties and furnish caoutchouc. Several species of Ficus are grown 

 for ornament. 



Order LXXXVII. CELTIDEAE. 



1. Sponia Lamarkiana. Desc. (S7oains.) 



Jamaica Nettle Tree. Indigenous. No known use. 



Order LXXXIII. MYRICEAE. 



1. Myrica cerifera, L. 



Wax Myrtle, Bay berry. 



Introduced from America. This plant is valuable for the wax 

 which is obtained from its fruit, and which can be used for lighting. 

 Its roots are a violent purgative, and an infusion of its bark is said 

 to be a remedy for scrofula. 



Order LXXXIX. CASUAMNEAE. 



1. Casuarina equisetifolia, Forst. (Eggers.) 



Toa Tree. Introduced from the East and planted as an or- 

 namental tree. The wood (Beef-wood) is hard and heavy, and 

 can be used in ship building. The bark is astringent and useful 

 (in a decoction) in diarrhea ; healing to fresh-cut wounds. 



This family is widely distributed. Indian Archipelago and Pa- 

 cific Ocean. The Australian species are called "She Oak, Swamp 

 Oak, Forest Oak, Beef-wood." The wood is also known as Iron- 

 wood. It takes a fine polish (war clubs). Bark furnishes a dye. 

 (Smith Diet, Econ. PI.) 



Order XC. ETJPHORBIACEAE. 



1. Drypetes sp. \ 



West Indian. Indigenous. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



2. Cicca disticha, L. 



Otaheite Gooseberry. Introduced from India. 



3. Phyllanthus Niruri, L. 

 All tropical countries. 



4. P. angustifolius, Sw. 

 Hard-head Bush, Seaside Laurel. 



5. P. falcatus Sw. (Swains.) 

 Jamaica and West Indies. 



6. P. sp. » 



Rock bush. Astringent. 



7. Jatropha Curcas, L. 



Physic-nut. South American. Naturalized in all tropical coun- 

 tries. 



8. J. gossypifolia, L. (Swains.) 



9. Janipha Manihot, Kth. 



Cassava. Cultivated ; from South America. 



10. Ricinus communis, L. 



Castor Oil Plant, Palma Christi. Naturalized ; from East In- 

 dies. 



11. Croton Cascarilla, L. (Swains.) 



Linear-leaved variety. Cascarilla, Wild Rosemary. Indigenous. 



12. C. Eluteria Sw. (Swains.) 



Cascarilla, Eleuthera. New Providence. Indigenous. 



13. C. flavens, L. 



Yellow Balsam. West Indian. 



14. C. flocculosus, Geis. (Swains.) „ 



15. C. niveus, Jacq. 



West Indies and South America. 



16. C. lucidus, L. var. pubigerus. (Swains.) 

 Basket-hoop. Indigenous and in West Indies. 



17. C. lobatus, L. 



West Indies and South America. 



18. C. Ujalmarsonii, Hjalm. (Hjahnars.) 



Turk's Island, also frequent on Fortune Island. (Eggers.) 



19. C. humilis, L. var. origanifolius, Lam. (Swains.) 



20. Argythamnia sericea, Gr. (Sicains.) 

 Indigenous. 



21 Acalypha polystachya, Jacq. 

 West Indies. 




40(3 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



22. A. persimilis. 

 West Indies. 



23. A. alopecuroides. 

 "West Indies. 



24. Pera, sp. ? 



25. Sapium laurifolium, Gr. 



Gutu tree. West Indies and Cuba. 



26. Hura crepitans, L. 



Sand-box tree. West Indies and South America. Fruit acrid, 

 emetic rubefacient, poisonous; juice causes injury to the eyes. 



27. Excoecaria lucida, Sw. 

 West Indies. 



28. E. Cubana. 

 West Indies. 



29. Euphorbia buxifolia, Lam. 



Spurge. Indigenous and West Indian. 



30. E. serpens, Kth. 

 Indigenous and West Indian. 



31. E. maculata, L. 



Eye bright. All tropical countries. 



32. E. pilulifera L. 



All tropical countries. 



33. E. hypericifolia, L. 



West Indian, Southern United States and Europe. 



34. E. punicea, Ait. (Swains.) 

 Wild Physic-nut. Indigenous. 



35. E. heterophylla, L. Var. prunifolia, Jacq. (Swains.) 

 Joseph's-Coat. Indigenous and West Indies. 



36. E. (Poinsettia) splendens. 



In gardens. Native of Madagascar. 



37. Euphorbia, sp. T 



38. Hippomane Mancinella, L. 



Manchineel. West Indies and South America. A common tree 

 in Fortune Island. (Eggers.) 



The Euphorbiaceae have a milky juice, which in almost every case 

 is more or less poisonous, but it becomes innocuous when heated. 

 From this property of the juice, it is possible to make use of the 

 valuable starch which some of the plants contain, e. g. Tapioca, ob- 

 tained from Janipha Manihot. Sapium, Hura and Excoecaria are 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



especially poisonous, and Hippomane Mancinella, the true Manchin- 

 eel, the most poisonous of all. Cicca has an acrid, eatable fruit. 

 Phyllanthus is used here as a wash for sores, being very astringent. 

 Jatropha is a drastic purgative. As mentioned above, washing and 

 heating removes the poisonous juice which, concentrated by boiling, 

 becomes a sauce known as Cassareep. Ricirms furnishes the well- 

 known castor oil. The Cascarilla or Sweet-wood bark exported 

 from this colony comes from a species of Croton ; it is an aromatic 

 tonic ; also purgative and emetic. The various species of Euphorbia 

 are purgative. 



Order XCI. NEPENTHEAE. 



1. Nepenthes, sp. 1 



In gardens. Asia and Africa. No known properties. 



Order XCII. LORANTHACEAE. 



1. Loranthus parviflorus, Sw. 

 Mistletoe. West Indies. 



2. L. unifiorus, Jacq. (Catesd.) 



Mistletoe. Indigenous and W. Indian. The mistletoe is used in 

 this colony as an antisyphilitic. Its properties appear to be very 

 important. 



3. Phoradendron rubrum, Gr. (Catesb) 

 Fortune Island. (Eggers.) 




408 proceedings of the academy of [1889. 



December 3. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Forty-five persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Modification of the Apex in Murex," 

 by Frank C. Baker was presented for publication. 



Notes on the drift on Block Island. — Mr. Theo. D. Rand remarked 

 that this island, lying in the Atlantic Ocean off the extreme east- 

 erly point of Long Island, shows the drift formation as he had seen 

 it nowhere else. The shores in many parts rise from the ocean as 

 precipitous bluffs to a height from one hundred to two hundred feet. 

 The outer surface is constantly eroded while the summits are pre- 

 served by a growth of grass generally too high above the water for 

 drifting sands to cover. Thus excellent sections are exposed. 



The island is pear-shaped, about seven miles from north to south 

 and between three and four from east to west at its widest point 

 which is probably a mile and a half from its southern edge. 



There is not a creek or running water of any kind on the island 

 except a few springs bordering the ocean, neither is there a valley 

 strictly so called. The whole island is made up of rounded hills 

 and bowl-like depressions, the bottom of the latter usually occupied 

 by a fresh-water pond, in many of which flourish water lilies of 

 remarkable size and beauty. Most of it is covered with a soil of 

 sand, clay and gravel which seems to be quite fertile. 



Here and there are boulders ranging down from two thousand 

 cubic feet (visible above ground), but the stone fences, which every- 

 where divide the farms often into quite small fields, testify that man's 

 industry has removed many thousands from the surface. 



The island has been described as pear-shaped, but a little north 

 of the middle of the pear is a brackish pond of more than a 

 thousand acres in extent, with but a narrow isthmus of sand separat- 

 ing it from the ocean on the east and on the west. On the west 

 this isthmus has been dredged through and the tide now flows in 

 and out. On the east the isthmus is not over one hundred yards 

 wdde and not over, probably, five or ten feet above high tide. 

 North of this isthmus the ground gradually rises to high bluffs. 

 South and southwest of it almost all the land is elevated, the 

 extreme height being some three hundred feet at Beacon Hill. 



On examining the bluffs it would appear at first sight that erosion 

 is progressing with great rapidity, as along most of the bluffs large 

 boulders line the shore and extend a considerable distance seaward 

 forming a breakwater. The cause of this was not at first apparent. 

 With few exceptions the bluffs were clothed with grass to their 

 extreme edges. The descent from the edge was generally precipitous 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



with perhaps one-tenth of the contour indented to a slope of thirty 

 degrees or more. 



In the precipitous portions the sections were very perfectly shown. 

 There is some clay but the larger portion of material is gravel 

 intermixed with pebbles and boulders of various sizes, the boulders 

 some times rounded and often not. The variety of rock was great. 

 The material evidently came chiefly from the Laurentian. Granite 

 and syenite are probably in the largest quantity and greatest variety. 

 White quartz is abundant ; several varieties of porphyry, porphyritic 

 gneiss, garnetiferous gneiss, mica schist and epidote occur more 

 rarely. 



Careful examination shows that considerable drainage from the 

 island takes place through these bluffs. This was plainly visible in 

 July when the ponds evidently were not at their highest, and he 

 was inclined to attribute much of the erosion to this trivial but 

 constantly acting cause. During times of frost its influence must 

 be considerable. 



In these sections, as a rule, the material is heterogeneous, clay, 

 sand, gravel and boulders being commingled in seeming confusion, but 

 at times there is evidence of a sorting. Thus at Clay Head near the 

 north part of the island, there is a great preponderance of clay, but 

 in the sections may be seen what were evidently the beds of ponds, 

 in which muddy water had, for a time, deposited its clay free from 

 stones, this being afterwards buried in the coarser detritus. He saw 

 nothing whatever organic in any of the exposures. 



These alternations of clay and gravel account for the existence 

 of the numerous ponds which appear to be simply collections of 

 rain water in clayey bottoms, the water rising until a porous 

 stratum is reached through which the water percolates to the ocean. 

 At one place a higher pond had an outlet to a lower and here 

 erosion by running water was apparent, but it was trivial and almost 

 the only one seen, except what might be attributed to excessive rain- 

 fall, such as may be seen along our roadsides after a heavy rain. 

 Some of the grass-covered slopes are very steep and this absence of 

 recent erosion shows the extreme porosity of the general surface. 



What most impressed Mr. Rand was the probable very slight 

 change of surface since the glacial epoch. Contrasting this with 

 the erosion in south-eastern Pennsylvania of rocks so very much 

 harder than the loose sand gravel and clays of Block Island the 

 time within which the erosion of the former must have been pro- 

 gressing would seem almost infinite. 



December 10. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 




410 proceedings of the academy of [1889. 



December 17. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" On a Petroglyph from the Island of St. Vincent, W. I.," hy 

 Daniel G. Brinton, M. D. 



" Description of a new species of Eutsenia," by Arthur Erwin 

 Brown. 



December 24. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Description of New Species of Shells," by W. D. Hartman, 

 M. D. 



" On new forms of Vertigo," by Dr. V. Sterki. 



'• On the distribution of color-marks in the Pteropodida3," by 

 Harrison Allen. 



December 31. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



The deaths of Jose O. Schimmel, Charles A. Ashburner, James H. 

 Hutchinson, M. D., members, were announced. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



NEW AND LITTLE-KNOWN AMERICAN MOLLTJSKS, No. 2. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 

 Pupa calamitosa Pilsbry. PI. 12, figs. 16, 17. 



Shell minute, cylindrical, very blunt at apex, chestnut colored ; 

 whorls -U, the first one and one-half smooth, the following regularly 

 costulate striate, the costulse separated by spaces wider than them- 

 selves ; last whorl abruptly turning forward, rounded beneath, 

 encircled by a slight central constriction or furrow ; aperture about 

 one-third the total length of shell, rounded, truncated above, con- 

 tracted within ; peristome thin, expanded, Avithout crest or callous 

 thickening behind ; columellar margin rather dilated ; parietal wall 

 bearing two entering lamelke, one arising near the termination of 

 the outer lip, the other more deep seated, elevated, entering less 

 obliquely ; columella with a strong white deep-seated obliquely 

 entering fold ; outer lip with two short white lamella?. 



Alt. 1-70, diam. -80 mill. 



Two trays of this tiny species are before me. One received from 

 Henry Hemphill, collected near the mouth of San Tomas river, 

 Lower California, the other collected by Orcutt near San Diego, 

 Cal. Most specimens show the widening inward of the outer lip 

 shown in the figure. Several specimens have only one lamella on 

 the outer lip, and are rather larger than the typical form described, 

 measuring 1*90 mill. alt. The second parietal lamella is usually 

 much larger than the first, but in one or two specimens before me 

 this is not the case. The umbilical rimation terminates in a tiny 

 depression, perhaps minutely perforated at the axis. The formula 

 of denticles or folds (according to Dr. Sterki's scheme*) A A B D E 

 or AA B E. The species is of a decidedly different type from any 

 known American Pupa. P. hordacea, californica, and rowelli, 

 abundant western forms, belonging in quite diverse groups ; the 

 first being allied to P. corticaria and pellucida, the latter grouping 

 with P. decora, rowelli and corpulenta. 



From the Pupa, of the Mexican fauna, leucodon, pellucida and 

 chordata the present species is quite distinct in every respect. 



The inward continuation of the parietal and columellar folds is 

 shown in figure 17. They are white, regularly veined with darker, 

 like polished plates of agate. 



* See Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 1888, p. 369. I have repeated the letter represent- 

 ing the parietal fold, as the two seem to be of equal importance. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Pupa sterkiana Pilsbry. PI. 2, figs. 2, 3. 



Shell rimate, perforate when young, cylindrical, blunt at both 

 ends, opaque, chestnut-brown ; surface obliquely sculptured with 

 strong, rather irregular costula?, which often split or branch ; 

 suture very deeply impressed; whorls 7, the first one smooth, the 

 last five of about equal diameter, very convex ; last whorl a little 

 ascending to the aperture, without crest or scrobiculation behind 

 the peristome ; aperture a trifle oblique, rounded, truncate above ; 

 lip expanded, continuous, thin, white, without teeth or folds ; um- 

 bilicus deeply impressed, appearing very narrowly perforated. 



Alt. 4], diam. 1J mill. 



Alt. 4, diam. H mill. 



i 



Specimens of this species are in the Academy from Lower Cali- 

 fornia. They were received from Mr. C. R. Orcutt of San Diego, 

 Cal. The large size (much exceeding any other West American 

 Papa) toothless lip and strongly costate surface will at once dis- 

 tinguish it. The peristome is continuous as a slightly elevated lamina 

 across the parietal wall. The columella has a very obtuse, blunt, 

 deep-seated fold. 



Zonites simpsoni Pilsbry. PI. 12, figs. 8, 9, 10. 



This species belongs to that group of Hyalina comprising capsella 

 Gld.j lawi W. G. Binn., and placentula Shutt., — species with narrow 

 umbilicus, numerous closely coiled narrow whorls, and without 

 a callus or thickening within the base of the last whorl. Z. simp- 

 soni differs from placentula in its much smaller size, nearly straight, 

 instead of arcuate basal lip, seen from beneath, proportionately 

 wider last whorl, and the more trigonal, wider aperture. With 

 Z. lawi I need not compare, as that species is much larger and more 

 elevated. Z. capsella is about the same size, color and texture as 

 simpsoni, but has a narrow umbilicus and very much narrower 

 aperture, narrowly semilunar instead of trigonal in outline. Z. simp- 

 soni has 5 whorls. Alt. 2, diam. maj. 4 J, min. 4 mill. 



The specimens before me were collected by Mr. C. T. Simpson at 

 Limestone Gap, Indian Territory. The trigonal form of the aper- 

 ture is so peculiar that the species may be separated from Z. capsella 

 at a glance. My comparisons were made with specimens of capsella 

 received from Gould, and placentula from W. G. Binney. The fig- 

 ures are camera lucida drawings. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



Zonites selenitoides Pilsbry. PL 12, figs. 13, 14, 15. 



This species is similar in form and general appearance to Z. minus- 

 en his Binn., though decidedly larger. The umbilicus is broad, as 

 in the latter species. The shell is thin, light yellowish-horn eolor, 

 almost white. Surface shining, covered with close strong oblique 

 rib-stria?, like Patula striatella ; these stria? while generally regular, 

 sometimes bifurcate, or separate to give room for another to be in- 

 tercalated. The spire is flatter than minuscuhis, nearly plane. The 

 earlier If to 2 whorls are smooth, polished, not striate; the sutures 

 are well impressed. There are 3? whorls in all, convex, gradually 

 widening, the last proportionately wider than in Z. minuscuhis. 

 Aperture slightly oblique, lunate, narrower than in Z. minuscuhis, 

 its margins thin, acute, scarcely converging, the columellar shortly 

 subreflexed. 



Alt. 1*2 mill. , diam. 3 mill. 



The specimens were presented to me by Mr. W. G. Binney, who 

 regarding them as new, kindly permitted me to describe them. 

 They were gathered by Hemphill, Prince of collectors ! at Mariposa 

 Big Trees, California. The name selenitoides is given because of a 

 certain resemblance to the little Selenites duranti of Southern Cali- 

 fornia. 



Helix ( Hemitrochus ) streatori Pilsbry. PI. 12. fig. 1. 



Shell imperforate, depressed, thin but rather strong, resembling 

 in contour Hemitrochus amplecta Gundlach of Cuba. It is white, 

 with dark purplish-brown apex and a narrow, well-defined supra- 

 peripheral band of the same color. Above this band there are two 

 lighter, interrupted subobsolete bands (sometimes confluent into 

 one) ; on the base there is a zone composed of several interrupted 

 lines or narrow bands, close together or confluent, broken into 

 blotches, fading into the ground-color on the edges, with a tendency 

 to form short streaks in the direction of the growth lines. Surface 

 shining, finely obliquely striate, except the smooth 1? apical whorls. 

 The spire is low-conoidal ; apex blunt ; sutures evenly, moderately 

 impressed ; whorls 4J, slightly convex, the last depressed, deflexed 

 toward the aperture. Aperture very oblique, transversely oval, 

 obliquely truncated by the parietal wall, distinctly showing a band 

 within ; peristome thickened inside, upper margin simple, outer a 

 little expanded, basal narrowly reflexed, brown, appressed over and 

 closing the narrow axial perforation. 



Alt. 7, greater diam. 12, lesser diam. 10 mill. 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



I received this species from Mr. John Ford, to whom it was 

 transmitted by Mr. Geo. J. Streator of Garrettsville, Ohio. It was 

 collected on Cayman Island (an islet lying about 200 miles south of 

 Central Cuba) by Mr. Clark P. Streator, whose name I have given 

 the species. 



H. streatori belongs evidently to the section Hemitrochus ; and 

 like the other species of that division the axis is perforated in young 

 shells. There is a general resemblance in form and color-pattern to 

 H. ampleeta but that shell and its allies are umbilicate. Its affinity 

 is greatest with Tryon's H. guassoini, 1 described from the tiny islet 

 of Navassa, but the streatori is more depressed, with more oblique 

 aperture, fewer more rapidly enlarging whorls, etc. These two 

 shells, guassoini and streatori, should be inserted in my monograph 

 of Hemitrochus in the Manual of Conchology immediately following 

 the group of ampleeta, rufoapicata and graminicola (p. 37). It may 

 be noted that with the exception of the last-named form, these 

 two are the only species of Hemitrochus ranging south of Cuba. 

 Helix (Mesodon) kiawaensis Simpson. PI. 12, f. 11, 12. 



The jaw (fig. 11) and dentition of this species are here figured 

 from one of the original specimens. A rhachidian tooth with three 

 adjacent laterals (l.) are figured, with a group of transition teeth 

 (tr.) and three marginal teeth (wi.). The affinities of the species 

 are with H sayi Binn., agreeing with that form in the long penis, 

 and other details of genitalia. 



Note: The following description and figures 6 and 7 of pi. 12 

 have been communicated to me by Dr. V. Sterki, of New Phila- 

 delphia, Ohio. Figures 4 and 5 of the same plate are camera- 

 lucida drawings of a specimen received from Dr. Sterki. 



Pupa holzingeri Sterki. PI. 12, figs. 4, 5, 6, 7. 



Shell narrowly perforated, turreted-cylindrieal, vitreous (or whit- 

 ish), very minutely striate, shining ; apex rather pointed, whorls 5, 

 regularly increasing, well rounded, especially the upper ones, the 

 last somewhat narrowed and a little ascending towards the aperture, 

 compressed at the base but not carinated, at some distance from the 

 outer margin provided with an oblique, rather prominent, acute 

 crest corresponding in direction to the lines of growth, extending 



1 See description and figures from types, Manual of Conchology (Pilsbry's 

 continuation), vol.'v, appendix, p. 197, pi. 63, figs. 14, 15. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



from the base to the suture, formed by a whitish callosity ; behind 

 the crest the whorl is flattened, and corresponding to the lower palatal 

 lamella, impressed ; aperture lateral, scarcely oblique, relatively 

 small, inverted subovate, with a slight sinus at the upper part of the 

 outer wall, margins approximated ; peristome moderately reflected ; 

 lamella? 6 ; one parietal, rather long, very high, in its middle part 

 curved outward, towards the aperture, bifurcated, the outer branch 

 reaching the parietal wall ; one columellar, longitudinal, rather 

 high, its upper end turning in nearly a right angle towards the 

 aperture, but not reaching the margin ; basal exactly at the base, 

 short, high, dentiform ; 3 in the outer wall, viz. : the lower palatal 

 long, ending in the callus, highest about its middle ; the upper 

 short, rather high on the callous ; above the upper one a supra- 

 palatal, quite small, dentiform, nearer the margin. 

 Length 1*7 mill., diam. 0*8 mill. 



In the spring of 1887, Mr. John A. Holzinger, of Winona, Minn., 

 sent me a lot of small Pupae, among which there was one specimen 

 of a new species. It was a dead, weather-beaten, poor shell, but 

 evidently adult. By repeated, ever so careful examinations it broke 

 to pieces, but not before I had made a drawing and description of 

 it. Mr. Holzinger as w T ell as a few of his students then endeavored 

 to secure more specimens, but all their efforts have been in vain, so 

 far. In 1888, in a vial of Pupa from northern Illinois sent by 

 Mr. Win. A. Marsh, I found a few more specimens of evidently the 

 same species, the shells fresh and good. This year, at last, among a 

 number of small Pupa collected at Davenport, la., I was fortunate 

 in detecting three more examples. The validity of the species was, 

 consequently, established ; and on the other hand it proved to be a 

 Form quite distinct, and readily separable from all other species. 



It is a most interesting and valuable addition to our malacological 

 fauna as it belongs to a specifically American group, 1 viz. : that of 

 P. armifera and P. contracta Say ; but it is much smaller than the 

 latter of the two named as this is than the former. Yet the three 

 together form a well characterized and well-defined group of 

 evidently common origin, and it may be possible sometime, and 

 would be an interesting task of paleontology, to detect a fossil form, 

 or forms, from which the recent ones are derived. 



1 It is possible and even probable, however, that certain species of Pupa 

 described from eastern Asia range among the same group ; yet as I have seen no 

 specimens and know them only from the descriptions, I am unable to judge of 

 them. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1889. 



So far, it has not been possible to examine the soft parts and thus 

 complete our knowledge and description of the species ; but it is to 

 be expected that the necessary fresh, if possible living specimens 

 will be found, and I hereby would invite the active collectors of the 

 north-western states to look especially for this Pupa, in order not 

 only to make a complete examination, but also to know more about 

 its geographical distribution, and possible variation. 



As already stated, our species ranges with P. armifera and P. 

 contractu Say, standing nearer the latter. Yet it is different from 

 this species by the shape of the aperture, the wanting callus 1 con- 

 necting the margins on the body-whorl, by the longer crest behind 

 the aperture, which in contracta disappears in about the middle of 

 the (height of the) whorl, and by the wanting constriction, especially 

 in the columellar wall, not to speak of the size and shape of the 

 whole shell. The lamelke also show some marked differences, such 

 as the presence of a high basal, the shorter columellar not reaching 

 the base, but with relatively larger horizontal part, the bifurcation 

 of the parietal and the presence of a supra-palatal, the last just as it 

 is in P. armifera. 



It must be added here that the specimen first obtained from 

 Minnesota in several respects differs from those found in Illinois 

 and Iowa, which I consider as typical, by its size which is \ smaller, 

 by the basal lamella developed in a peculiar way, being rather 

 longer at the truncated top than at its foot, and by the stronger, 

 thicker palatal lamella?. Yet, as there was only one specimen, 

 it is likely to be an individual peculiarity ; even then, of interest. 

 Should, however, more specimens be found with the same configura- 

 tion, they would represent a distinct and well-characterized variety ; 

 possibly it is a peculiar northern form. 



1 In many specimens of P. contracta so strongly developed, that the peristome 

 is rendered continuous. 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



417 



ON A PETROGLYPH FROM THE ISLAND OF ST. VINCENT, W. I. 

 BY DANIEL G. BRIXTON, M. D. 



The rock-inscriptions or petroglyphs which are found in various 

 parts of the American Continent offer a curious subject of study, 

 and one that may ultimately furnish valuable ethnological data. 

 They appear to present definite characteristics both of subject and 

 technical execution extending over wide areas, but not repeated 

 outside of fixed geographical boundaries. 



The one which I submit to the Academy to-night was photo- 

 graphed by Professor Benjamin Sharp in the Island of St. Vincent, 

 "West Indies, last winter. 



The rock upon which it is inscribed is an ancient lava which 

 had flowed into the sea, making a spur into the water, from which 

 the inscription itself was about twenty feet distant. The lines were 

 about a quarter of an inch in depth, the edges rather sharply de- 

 fined, though from the nature of the rock and the action of the ele- 

 ments, they do not now present the appearance of having been 

 formed by a cutting implement, but rather of having been ground 

 in, as by a process of rubbing. Which of these technical methods 

 was employed is of considerable interest, as will shortly be seen, but 

 the present condition of the surface is such that the point must re- 

 main in doubt. 

 28 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



There is no question that this inscription is attributable to the na- 

 tive tribes who formerly occupied St. Vincent. These were the 

 Caribs who had populated it from the adjacent mainland, distant 

 about seventy miles. When first discovered, St. Vinceot was the 

 most densely peopled of all the Caribbee Islands and exclusively by 

 this tribe. 



One of the early writers says that they had many villages in its 

 valleys and enjoyed entire repose from their enemies ; hence it was 

 selected as a rendezvous for the tribal bands from other islands and 

 the mainland when organizing expeditions against their enemies, 

 the Arawacks. 1 We may credibly affirm therefore that this inscrip- 

 tion is a product of Carib art. 



It is well known that on the adjacent portions of South America 

 many petroglyphs have been observed, some of remarkable size and 

 designs. They have been copied by Humboldt, Schomburgh, Wal- 

 lace, Im Thurn and others. The last mentioned who is also the most 

 recent observer, has made the important discovery that they are 

 divided into two classes, differing widely in design and technical 

 procedure. The one he calls the "deep" the other the •'shallow" 

 petroglyphs. The " deep" are from I to i an inch in depth; the 

 " shallow" are mere surface scratches ; the former have been incised 

 with the edge of a sharpened stone ; the latter rubbed in by friction 

 with a stone and moist sand. The figures represented differ, and the 

 two varieties never occur together, nor even near each other. The 

 shallow variety is seen on the Corentyn river and its tributaries in 

 the extreme east of British Guiana ; the deep occur on the streams 

 west of that region. - 



The present Indians know nothing of the origin, age or meaning 

 of these monuments, and do not pretend to imitate them. The posi- 

 tion they occupy is generally, but not always, close to some body of 

 water. Not unfrequently they are upon almost inaccessible rock- 

 surfaces, and could have been executed only with enormous toil and 

 risk. This fact, and the well-known aversion of the natives to labor 

 of any kind, are sufficient to invalidate the theory of Dr. Richard 

 Andree that these figures were merely the product of idle hours, 

 without meaning and without object. 3 



1 De Rochefort, Histoire des lies Antiles de l'Amerique, pp. 24, 25. 



2 Among the Indians in Guiana. By Everard F. Im Thurn, p. 394. 

 3 Ethnographische Parallelen und Vergleiche, s. 258. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



Some, on the other hand, have attributed to them a profound 

 symbolic meaning, or supposed they possessed far-reaching histori- 

 cal significance. This is an error quite as much too far on the other 

 side. 



I am convinced that in regard to those found in Guiana and the 

 Carib district the theory of Professor Von Martins is correct. 

 He believed that they were intended as conjurations for luck in 

 fishing and hunting, propitiatory to the spirits of the fish and ani- 

 mals sought for, objurgatory towards envious or malicious super- 

 natural powers. 1 



There is a passage in De Rochefort's History of the Antilles con- 

 firmatory of Von Martins' view, though he omits to quote it. This 

 early French historian speaking of the island Caribs says : " To 

 turn aside the anger of the demons whom they dread, they paint 

 their hideous figures on the most prominent parts of their canoes." 2 

 He does not specifically say that they also engraved them upon the 

 plain surfaces of the rocks, but there can be no doubt they did, as 

 the Carib word temehri which is applied by them to rock inscrip- 

 tions means "to paint'" or "a painting." 3 



We may safely decide therefore that the photograph before us 

 represents one of the Carib demons or deities, and that its figure 

 was cut in the rock as a propitiatory act. 



It may partake of temerity to proceed further, and undertake to 

 identify a particular deity ; but I am tempted to do so. The main 

 figure of the glyph clearly represents a human form with arms ex- 

 tended over and laid upon the abdomen, but with no legs visible. 

 The abdomen is disproportionately large, as if greatly distended. 

 The suggestion is at once at hand that the figure is that of a woman in 

 parturition. Immediately above the head of the figure is the rude 

 representation of a human face, and another smaller one is to the 

 left of the figure, both without limbs. 



Turning now to the mythology of the Carib we learn that 

 their principal beneficent deity was the Earth. They spoke of it as 

 a female, as the. good mother, from whom proceeded their food and 

 other necessaries of life, and to her they paid their principal hom- 

 age. They also regarded the sun and moon as animate beings, and 



1 Ethnographic und Sprachen-Kunde Amerikas, Band I, S. 571, 2 qq. 



2 Hi^toire des lies Antilles, p. 479. 



3 Im Thurn, ubi supra, p. 394. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



paid them much respect in their ceremonies, but not actual worship, 

 as they did to Mother Earth. 1 



In the rock sculpture before us this evening, I believe we have 

 these three nature-spirits represented, the Earth as the parturient 

 All Mother, the sun and moon as accessories. The purpose of the 

 carving was propitiatory to these poAverful forces, and was intended 

 as a permanent conjuration of their good-will. 



1 See De Rochefort, ubi supra, pp. 469, 470. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF EUTAENIA. 

 BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



Eutaenia nigrolateris, species nov. 



A snake belonging to this genus, now living in the collection of 

 the Zoological Society, presents characters differing from any other 

 sj:>ecies with which I am acquainted, to a degree requiring recogni- 

 tion and to the following description I append the above name. 



Form moderately stout, about as in E. sirtalis. Tail short. 

 Head short and broad, flattened on crown. Vertical and occipitals 

 short and broad ; superciliaries short in front ; one ante-orbital, 

 much elevated and pointed above, in contact with the fronto-exter- 

 nal angle of the vertical ; three post-orbitals, the lower one lying on 

 the 5th and 6th superior labials ; upper labials eight, 6th and 7th 

 largest; lower labials ten, 6th largest. Eye rather large, center just 

 behind the suture between the 4th and 5th labials. A vertical series 

 of three temporals in contact with the post-orbitals, the lower one 

 small and lying on the 6th and 7th labials, but mainly on the 6th ; 

 the middle one above and behind it, is much larger and elongated ; 

 the upper one, somewhat smaller than the last is in contact with 

 the occipitals. On one side, in this specimen, the large, middle 

 temporal is divided into two portions, the anterior being the smaller. 



Twenty-one dorsal rows of scales ; the outer one but little larger 

 than the 2nd, the former smooth anteriorly, faintly carinated to- 

 wards the tail ; carina; on the remaining rows increasing towards 

 the dorsal line. 



A golden yellow stripe occupies the median row of scales from 

 nape to tip of tail, widening slightly on the edges of the contiguous 

 rows at the anterior end ; a lateral stripe of same color, very indis- 

 tinct anteriorly, where it is mostly confined to the 3rd row, but 

 better defined on the posterior third of the body, where it invades 

 the upper half of the 2nd. Color above the laterals, brownish-olive 

 with two series of alternating dark spots (66 pairs, in this specimen 

 from head to anus), the lower series on the 4th, 5th and 6th rows, 

 the upper on the 7th, 8th and 9th ; below the lateral lines, the 1st 

 and lower half of the 2nd rows (anteriorly, occasionally to the 

 lower half of the 3rd) with the ends of the abdominal scutellse, are 

 lustrous pitch-black. The upper surface of the head in front of the 

 occipitals is greenish-olive ; behind that, to the neck and the sides 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



of the head, including the 7th and 8th superior labials, blackish- 

 brown, slightly maculated with dull chestnut just behind the oc- 

 cipital* ; the dorsal yellow line being slightly indicated on the dark 

 patch. Beneath white, with a creamy tinge anteriorly, becoming 

 pale greenish on the sub-caudals. The labials are margined with 

 blackish-brown ; a post-oral cream-colored crescent with the concave 

 side forward ; a similar band passing down on the post-orbitals 

 Avidens on the 6th upper labial and runs into the throat color and a 

 third light band is indicated on the ante-orbital, becoming lost on 

 the 4th upper labial, iris bright copper color. 



Abdominal scutelhe 156. Sub-caudals 63 pairs. Total length 

 m .510 (20 1-8 in.) length of tail .110 (4 5-16 in.) 



This species somewhat resembles E. marciana in form and general 

 pattern of coloring, as well as. in an extreme boldness and aggres- 

 siveness when handled, but is much darker ; has the lower row of 

 spots replaced by a shining black band below the lateral light stripe 

 and is well marked by the extension of the ante-orbital upward to 

 meet the vertical and the increased number of temporals. 



The specimen was captured in September last, in the vicinity of 

 Tucson, Arizona, and was sent to the Zoological Society through 

 the courtesy of one of its corresponding members, Mr. Herbert 

 Brown, of that city. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee: — 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that the meetings 

 of the Academy during the greater part of the year have been un- 

 usually well attended and that the communications have been varied 

 and interesting. The improvement is due in great measure to the 

 plan of joint meetings of the several Sections with the Academy 

 which was first carried into operation in March. A programme of 

 the meetings was issued to the members with the effect of materially 

 increasing the attendance. While communications from members 

 of the Section to which the night is assigned have precedence, they 

 do not exclude those from other members of the Academy and 

 while there have been few meetings without some matter of special 

 interest no difficulty has been experienced in affording opportunity 

 to all who wish to obtain a hearing. Verbal communications have 

 been made by Messrs. Leidy, McCook, Meehan, Ryder, Heilprin,Ives, 

 Binder, Morris, Wingate, Goldsmith, Pilsbry, Foote, Koenig, Perot, 

 Horn, J. B. Brinton, Rex, Hall, Woolman, Wilson, A. H. Smith, 

 Hartzell, Willcox, Redfield, Dolley, Rothrock, Ford, U. C. Smith 

 Campbell, Sharp, Jefferis, Skinner, Baker, Thomas, D. G. Brinton, 

 Leffmau and Aaron. 



Two hundred and twenty-eight pages of the Proceedings for 1888 

 and three hundred and thirty-six for 1889 have been issued since 

 the last report. The current volume will be illustrated by thirteen 

 plates. In connection with the Academy's regular publications 

 mention should also be made of the Manual of Conchology which, 

 since the death of Mr. Geo. W. Tryon Jr., in Feb. 1888, has become 

 the property of the Conchological Section and has been promptly 

 issued in two series under the editorship of Mr. H. A. Pilsbry. Of 

 the Marine Series three hundred and twenty pages of text and 

 seventy-five colored plates, and of the series devoted to Land Mol- 

 lusca two hundred and seventy-nine pages and seventy plates have 

 been issued during the year. It is gratifying to know that the high 

 standard established for the work by Mr. Tryon has been main- 

 tained and that the subscription list is sufficient to more than pay 

 the expense of issuing the work. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



In addition to the Transactions of the American Entomological So- 

 ciety, of which three hundred and twenty pages and seven plates have 

 been issued, the Entomological Section of the Academy is about to be- 

 gin the publication, under the editorship of Eugene M. Aaron, of a 

 monthly journal to be entitled, "The Entomological News." It 

 will thus be seen that no less than one thousand four hundred and 

 eighty-three pages and one hundred and sixty-five plates have been 

 published by the Academy and its Sections since the last annual 

 report and that operations in this department are to be extended 

 during the coining year. 



Forty-three papers have been presented for publication in the 

 Proceedings by the following authors : — H. A. Pilsbry 4, J. E. Ives 

 3, Witmer Stone 3, Charles K. Keyes 3, J. A. Ryder 2, Eugene N. 

 S. Ringueberg 2, W. D. Hartman 2, George Marx 2, F. C. Baker 

 2, F. A. Genth 1, T. Meehan 1, Jos. Leidy 1, Angelo Heilprin 1, E. 

 Goldsmith 1, W. B. Scott 1, W. H. Dall 1, Harold Wingate 1, H. 

 Allen 1, John Eyerman 1, S. W. Williston 1, Chas. S. Bollman 1, 

 J. P. McMurrich 1, J. Gardner 1, W. L. Morrison 1, P. H. Kirsch 

 1, David S Jordan and Burt Fesler 1, S. E. Meek and C. F. Boll- 

 man 1, J. M. Safford and A. W. Vogdes 1, P. H. Kirsch and M. 

 W. Fordice 1. Four of these have been withdrawn by the authors 

 and the others have been published or are now in the hands of the 

 printer. Among the most important matter contributed to the vol- 

 ume were the papers by various authors in continuation of those 

 published prior to the last report giving the results of Prof. Heil- 

 prin's explorations of the Bermudas in July, 1888. 



The number of copies of the Proceedings distributed is as follows: 

 Foreign exchange 399, domestic exchange 70, subscribers 107 ; total 

 576. 



Twenty-two members and five correspondents were elected. The 

 deaths of six members and three correspondents were announced. 

 The resignations of two members, Samuel Wagner and W. H. 

 Eisenbrey, were accepted. 



The vacancy in the Council, caused by the death of Geo. Y. 

 Shoemaker, June 18th, was filled by the election, June 25th, of 

 Uselma 0. Smith. 



A committee consisting of Messrs. Jos. Leidy, J. P. Lesley, Persifor 

 Frazer, Angelo Heilprin and W. B. Scott was appointed February 

 5th, to consider the proper award of the Hayden Memorial Medal. 

 No action on the subject has yet been reported. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



One of the most important events of the year was the considera- 

 tion of an invitation from the University of Pennsylvania to the 

 Academy to remove to a plot of ground in West Philadelphia in 

 immediate proximity to the University. After mature considera- 

 tion by the Council, to which the subject was referred for considera- 

 tion and report, a resolution respectfully declining the invitation 

 was adopted by the Academy by a vote of sixty-eight in the affirm- 

 ative to three in the negative. 



A committee was appointed January 29th to consider the propri- 

 ety of giving a series of social entertainments to serve as reunions 

 of the members with a view to promoting the interest and efficiency 

 of the meetings of the Academy. The committee having reported 

 favorably they were authorized to receive subscriptions to the nec- 

 essary fund, the understanding being that no expense should be in- 

 curred by the Academy. ►Sufficient encouragement has been re- 

 ceived to provide for at least three of the contemplated reunions, ar- 

 rangements for the first of which will be made when a favorable op- 

 portunity presents itself. 



The Academy is to be congratulated on having received from the 

 Legislature substantial recognition in an appropriation of $50,000 

 towards the erection of the new building so pressingly needed for 

 the arrangement and exhibition of the rapidly growing collections. 

 A detailed statement of the steps taken to begin the work of erec- 

 tion at an early date will be found in the report of the Curators. 



By resolution of the Academy the hall was placed at the service 

 of Dr. J. T. Rothrock for the delivery of a course of seven Michaux 

 Lectures to extend from Dec. 4, 1889, to Jan. 29, 1890. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted. 



EDW. J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The correspondence of the past year has been almost entirely in 

 reference to the publications of the Academy and has consisted of 

 acknowledgments from corresponding societies or letters of trans- 

 mittal from them, usually accompanying their publications. 



The plan adopted several years ago of sending our publications 

 by mail to the more active societies at home and abroad seems to be 

 working very satisfactorily and the prompt acknowledgment, usu- 




426 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



ally by card, and the very small number of inquiries for missing 

 parts show that there is practically no loss in the mail. A great 

 advantage results in making known, at the earliest possible moment, 

 the researches of those who make onr pages valuable and the various 

 zoological and other records are enabled to give an epitome of them 

 within the year for which they are published. 



Acknowledgment of the reception of our publications has been 

 made, by sixty-three postal-cards and by seventy-three letters, the 

 former all representing mail transmissions while a large number of the 

 latter should be so counted. Letters of envoy number barely forty, 

 being a decrease in number from past years due, doubtless, to the 

 use of the mail in sending to us. 



A pleasing indication is afforded by a portion of the correspondence 

 from various parts of our country, desiring copies of our by-laws 

 and asking for such information as will enable the formation of a 

 society on the plan of our organization. These have been promptly 

 answered and the future will doubtless show some results. 



During the year three correspondents have been elected and no- 

 tification has been promptly sent. Replies have been received from 

 all where time has been sufficient to permit it. 



The additions to the Museum have been numerous, and have been 

 acknowledged by the Curator-in-Charge, as will be learned from his 

 report. 



Respectfully submitted, 



George H. Horn, M. D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The annual statistics of the Librarian's report indicate that the 

 year ending November 30, 1889, has been an unusually prosperous 

 one in the department of the Academy of which he has charge. 

 The additions received number 4,446, an increase of 489 over the 

 growth of 1888 and of 1,066 over that of the preceding year. Six 

 hundred and eighty volumes, 3,786 pamphlets and parts of periodi- 

 cals and continued works and 26 maps are recorded. 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



427 



They were received from the following sources : 



Societies, 1842 



Editors 895 



I. V. Williamson Fund, ... 815 



Miss Frances Lea, 25)5 



Authors, 186 



Prof. A. Heilprin, 58 



East Indian Government, ... 36 



U. S. Department of the Interior, 34 



Wilson Fund 28 



Thomas Meehan, ..... 28 



U. S. Department of Agriculture, 28 

 Purchased by special appropriation, 19 



U.S. Department of State, . . 16 



John C. Sinclair, 16 



Stewart Culin, 15 



Charles M. Belts, 13 



New York State Library, . . 12 



U. S. Treasury Depaitment, . 11 



U. S. Fish Commission, ... 10 



Geological Survey ol Roumania, 9 



H. B. M. Government, ... 7 



Geological Survey of Penna., . 5 



Wm. John Potts, 5 



Trustees of the British Museum, 5 



H. A. Pilsbry, ...... 4 



Henry N. Rittenhouse, ... 4 



Geological Survey of India, . 4 



Engineer Department U. S. A., 4 



Geological Survey of Finland, 4 



Minister of Public Works, France, 

 Geological Survey of Kentucky, 

 Government of Victoria, . 

 Australian Government, 

 U. S. War Department, 



Wm. W. Jefferis, 



Geological Survey of Minnesota, 

 Geological Survey of Portugal, 

 Depaitment of Mines, N. S. W., 

 Geological Survey of N. J., 

 University of Pennsylvania, 

 New York State Museum of Nat- 

 ural History, 



Pennsylvania State Board of 



Health, 



State Mineralogist, California, 

 Geological Survey of Texas, 

 Michigan Forestry Commission 



J. H. Redfield 



Department of Mines, Nova 



Scotia, 



Geological Survey of New Zea- 

 land, 



Messrs. Tiffany & Co., 



Harold Wingate, 



Charles Morris, 



Lewis Woolman, 



Geological .Survey of Canada, 

 Mrs. R. C. Taylor, .... 



3 

 3 

 3 

 3 

 2 

 o 



They have been distributed to the several departments of the 

 library as follows : — 



Journals, 



Geology, 



Botany, 



Conchology, 



General Natural History, 

 Entomology, . . . . 

 Anatomy and Physiology, 

 Anthropology, . . . . 

 Ornithology, . . . . 

 Mineralogy, ... 

 Voyages and Travels, 

 Physical Science, 



3418 

 366 

 153 

 77 

 76 

 50 

 44 

 37 

 28 

 28 

 20 

 18 



Encyclopedias, . 

 Mammalogy, 

 Public Documents, 

 Ichthyology, . , 

 Helminthology, 

 Medicine, . . . 

 Herpetology, 

 Chemistry, 

 Bibliography, 

 Geography, . . , 

 Agricultural, . . 

 Unclassified, . . 



17 



16 



15 



14 



11 



8 



6 



5 



4 



3 



3 



29 



The accompanying lists of donations, exchanges and purchases 

 render unnecessary any special comment on the character of the ad- 

 ditions. 



In consequence of over-draft of the I. V. Williamson Fund as re- 

 ported last year by the Treasurer, a special appropriation of $500 

 from the general funds of the Academy was made. Orders to the 

 full amount of the Library Committee's resources are outstanding. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



The necessity for a binding fund becomes more urgent, only one 

 hundred and thirty-eight of the volumes most constantly in use having 

 been bound during the year. 



A priced catalogue of the duplicates in the library has been pre- 

 pared. To derive the most benefit from the list it should be printed 

 and distributed to those likely to be interested in separate numbers 

 and incomplete sets of periodicals of which the collection for the 

 most part consists. 



A large and valuable collection of maps, the extent of which had 

 not been suspected, has been classified and catalogued. It is very 

 desirable that special receptacles be prepared for these so that they 

 may be more readily examined than is at present possible. 



Early in the year the title entries of journals and periodicals were 

 completed and the catalogue arranged in the drawers for use. The 

 work has been supplemented by a convenient hand-list or, guide to 

 the arrangement of periodicals on the shelves and also by a general 

 subject index. 



These lists are all, of course, kept complete to date so that noth- 

 ing remains to be done in the department of journals and periodi- 

 cals short of a subject-catalogue of scientific communications which 

 is an undertaking of such extent as to be at present beyond the 

 means of the Academy. Such a work would be an invaluable aid 

 to the naturalist, supplying to him what the superb Index-Catalogue 

 of the Surgeon-General's Office provides for the physician, but it 

 must be either the result of co-operation among several scientific 

 societies or the cost must be defrayed by government appropriation, 

 as in the case of the work referred to, or by an institution possessed 

 of a large income such as the Royal Society of London, to which we 

 are indebied for the indispensable author-catalogue of scientific papers. 



Although such work on the periodicals of the library must, there- 

 fore, be deferred, satisfactory progress has been made on a subject- 

 catalogue of the special departments. The subject-registry of Voy- 

 ages and Travels and Geology has been completed and the work is 

 now going on rapidly in the section of General Natural History. 

 The arrangement of the cards will be continuously alphabetical 

 without any sub-division into classes other than that which depends 

 on the initial subject word. It is believed that clearness and sim- 

 plicity will be thus secured and that those who use the library will 

 be able to avail themselves of the catalogue without the assistance of 

 the trained attendants or pages who are usually required to interpret 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



elaborate systems of bibliographical classification. If in the future 

 it be found desirable to prepare special hand-lists for the use of stu- 

 dents in the different departments of the Academy this can readily 

 be done by copying the author and subject entries belonging to the 

 several classes as indicated by the class abbreviation written on the 

 upper left-hand margin of the cards. 



Most of the work here reported, apart from the daily routine of 

 the library, has depended on the continued engagement, thanks 

 to a number of liberal friends of the Academy, of Signor Emanuele 

 Fronani whose efficient assistance the Librarian has pleasure in ac- 

 knowledging. In the current work of the year the intelligent aid 

 rendered by William J. Fox is also worthy of note. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators present the following statement of the Curator-in- 

 Charge as their report for the year 1889 : — 



The Curator-in-Charge respectfully reports that the general con- 

 dition of the Academy's collections is satisfactory, except in so far 

 as excessive crowding of material has interfered with the proper dis- 

 play and systematic placing of specimens. This lack of room has 

 been an evil badly felt by the Academy for several years — indeed, 

 almost from the date of the first occupation of the present building. 

 The surprisingly rapid growth of the collections in certain depart- 

 ments has kept far ahead of the Academy's power to provide suita- 

 ble accommodation, and the time has at last arrived when even ex- 

 cessive crowding has reached a practical limit. The numerous ap- 

 peals for relief, that have been made from time to time, several of 

 them addressed to the Legislature of the State, and which have 

 been but indifferently responded to, have finally met with substantial 

 recognition in an appropriation of $50,000 made by the last Legisla- 

 ture. The hope is held out that a like appropriation, to cover the 

 full amount of the Academy's application to the State for the 

 purposes of a new building, may be made by the Legislature at its 

 next session. 



With the necessities of existing conditions, and the encourage- 

 ment of a friendly response from the generous citizens of our 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



metropolis, the Academy has seen fit to prepare plans for the much- 

 needed new building, and it is expected that active work on the 

 structure will begin with the early part of the present winter. The 

 main portion of the contemplated new museum-building will be in 

 the form of an irregular square, fronting on 19th street 155 feet 

 and on Cherry street 130 feet, thus presenting a surface-area of 

 20,150 feet. Four tiers of galleries, each in the main, 32 feet 

 in width, will surround an open central hall, to which unbroken 

 illumination will be afforded by a tunnelled glass roof, springing at 

 a height of some 80 feet above the floor. Office and laboratory 

 rooms will be provided on the ground floor beneath the first gallery, 

 while a number of external preparation rooms will adjoin the build- 

 ing on the north side. A two-story building,, measuring 54 feet by 

 48, and furnishing a lecture-amphitheater designed to accommodate 

 650 persons, will unite the new structure with the edifice now occu- 

 pied by the Academy. With this separation of the two buildings 

 there will be little interference with the necessary illumination. 



The cost of the building, which will permit of some 67,000 square 

 feet of floor-surface available for museum purposes alone — not count- 

 ing here the offices and laboratories— is placed at $239,000. The 

 needs of the Academy make it imperative that this amount, together 

 with a further sum of $50-60,000 for cases, be secured, and it is 

 earnestly hoped that the best endeavors will be made to provide the 

 desired funds at as early a day as possible. All delay is now directly 

 hurtful to the institution, and to the interests to which the Academy 

 ministers. 



The collections of the Academy have been efficiently cared for 

 during the year, and the Curator-in-Charge is again obliged to ac- 

 knowledge his indebtedness to the numerous workers who have vol- 

 untarily or otherwise rendered their services to the Academy. The 

 Conservators of the Botanical, Conchological, Geological and 

 Entomological Sections may be specially mentioned in this connec- 

 tion ; likewise, the Conservator of the Wm. S. Vaux collections. 

 The ornithological department has profited largely through the labors 

 of Mr. Witmer Stone, who, apart from other work in connection with 

 classifying and arranging, has systematically applied himself to the 

 redetermination of the species of Falconidse, Vulturidse, Strigida?, 

 Corvidre, Paradiseidse, Oriolidae, Dicruridse, Campephagidse and 

 Muscicapidse. Three thousand four hundred specimens represent- 

 ing these families have been identified, numbered and catalogued 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



during the year. The systematic cataloguing of the entire collec- 

 tion of birds is now fairly under way, and with such progress as has 

 been made, it is believed that the work will be completed be- 

 fore many years. The publication of special annotated lists, ac- 

 companying the identifications, is an important feature of Mr. 

 Stone's work. 



To my special assistant, Mr. J. E. Ives, I am indebted for a large 

 amount of labor in connection with the determination and classifica- 

 tion of new and old material in the possession of the Academy r prin- 

 cipally among the alcoholics. The refuse of accumulated material 

 is thus being gradually disposed of, and with the additional space 

 which is assured to the Academy, the full collection will shortly be 

 in a condition to be systematically placed. Dr. G. Baur, of New 

 Haven, has rendered valuable assistance through his critical studies 

 of the Academy's Testudinata, which were placed in his hands for 

 revision and cataloguing. This collection, which is rich in types and 

 rare species, numbers 429 specimens. These have all been redeter- 

 mined and labeled. 



The elaboration of the large collection of material brought from 

 the Bermuda Islands in the summer of 1888 by the Curator-in- 

 Charge and a class of students from the Academy has been com- 

 pleted, except as to one or two of the lower groups of organisms 

 (sponges). This material has furnished subject for several impor- 

 tant papers by different specialists, which have been published in 

 part in the Proceedings of the Academy and in part in an inde- 

 pendent publication on the physical history and zoology of the Ber- 

 mudas by the undersigned. The greater part of the material col- 

 lected proved new to the Academy's collections, while much of it 

 was new to science. The success of, and very light expense attend- 

 ing, the expedition show how much may be accomplished even with 

 little effort in zoogeographical research, and encourages the hope 

 that researches of a similar nature may hereafter be systematically 

 conducted under the auspices of the Academy. 



The losses to the Academy's collection during the year have been 

 insignificant, Less than a dozen specimens have been removed from 

 the museum as having passed beyond the period of their usefulness. 

 Specimens were loaned for study during the year to Prof. Alfred 

 Newton, of Cambridge, England ; to Prof. O. C. Marsh and Dr. G. 

 Baur, of New Haven ; to Dr. W. B. Clark, of Batimore ; to Dr. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Harrison Allen, of this city ; and to Mr. Charles B. Cory, of 

 Boston. Some of this material is still outstanding. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprin, 



Curator-in- Charge. 

 Joseph Leidy, 



Ch'n Curators. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICRO- 

 SCOPICAL SECTION. 



During the past year ten meetings were held with an average at- 

 tendance of eight members. 



The following new members were elected : — Harold Wingate, 

 Lancaster Thomas, Edward Bancroft. 



H. H. Burchard was admitted as a contributor. 



The following is a summary of the work done during the year : — 



December 3, 1888. Resume of biological work during 1888, lect- 

 ure by Prof. John A. Ryder. 



December 3, 1888. Communication upon Helicosporium ellip- 

 ticum, by Dr. Geo. A. Rex. 



December 3, 1888. Notacordal cells, by Prof. Ryder. 



January 7, 1889. Upon the Pitcher plants in reference to their 

 digestive function, by Dr. J. B. Brinton. 



January 21, 1889. Upon the cultivation of Fungi, by Dr. Rex. 



February 4, 1889. Rock sections, by Lancaster Thomas. 



February 4, 1889. Upon Botrytis, by Dr. L. Brewer Hall. 



February 18, 1889. Upon two new species of Trichia from Mon- 

 tana, by Dr. Rex. 



February 18, 1889. Diatoms from Mobile Bay, by Dr. Hall. 



March 4, 1889. Upon Psoriasis, and on different methods of 

 staining, by Dr. Hartzell. 



March 4, 1889. Upon Hemiarcyria Karstenii, by Mr. Wingate. 



May 6, 1889. Upon Karyokinesis, by Prof. Ryder. 



May 6, 1889. A new Fuligo from Nebraska, by Dr. Rex. 



June 3, 1889. Upon Fungi, by Dr. Rex. 



November 4, 1889. Upon the generic characteristics of Coma- 

 tricha, by Dr. Rex. 



November 4, 1 889. Upon a new Myxomycete Chondrioderma, by 

 Mr. Wingate. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



In addition to the above, many interesting communications were 

 made at the joint meetings of the Academy and the Section. 

 The officers elected for the ensuing year were : — 



Director, .... Harold Wingate. 



Vice Director, . . . John C. Wilson. 



Recorder, .... Dr. Robert J. Hess. 



Treasurer, .... Dr. Isaac Norris, Jr. 



Conservator, . . . Charles P. Perot. 



Corresponding Sec. . . Dr. Charles Sehreffer. 



Very respectfully submitted, 



Robert J. Hess, M. D., 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section reports that the more 

 important work transacted during the year has been the regular 

 issue of the Manual of Conchology and the arrangement of the cab- 

 inet in connection with the necessary study of material as the several 

 families have been reached. Four numbers of each of the two series 

 of the Manual have been published, the parts of the marine series 

 embracing the Turbinidse, Delphmulidse and portion of the Tro- 

 chidse, while the parts of the second series devoted to the land mollusca 

 treat of the Helicidse of the West Indies and South America. The 

 former consists of 320 pages of text and 75 plates while the latter 

 includes 279 pages and 70 plates. The Section has pleasure in ac- 

 knowledging the efficient services of the editor, Mr. Henry A. Pils- 

 bry, to whom belongs the credit of maintaining the standard of ex- 

 cellence established by Mr. Tryon. It is gratifying to be able to 

 report that the work is more than self-supporting. The meetings 

 held in connection with the Academy, in harmony with the sugges- 

 tion adopted by the latter last spring, have been rendered interest- 

 ing by communications from Messrs. Pilsbry, Baker, Heilprin, Ford, 

 Campbell and U. C. Smith. At the meeting held Dec. 5th, the fol- 

 lowing officers were elected to serve during the ensuing year : — 



Director, .... W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Vice Director, . . . John Ford. 



Recorder, .... Edward J. Nolan. 



Secretary, . . . . J. H. Redfield. 

 29 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1889. 



Treasurer, . . . . S. R. Roberts. 



Librarian, .... Edward J. Nolan. 



Conservator, . . . Henry A. Pilsbry. 



Since the last annual meeting of the Section specimens have been 

 received from forty-three persons, numbering in all 851 trays and 

 6,636 specimens. This brings the aggregate number of trays in the 

 museum to 52,787. The more valuable series received are those 

 collected by Prof. Heilprin at the Bermuda Islands, the Lower Cal- 

 ifornian shells purchased by the Conchological Section from Henry 

 Hemphill, and a series of shells from Tonquin, China, and the East 

 Indies obtained of the Abbe Vathelet. Valuable additions to the 

 fauna of our eastern coast have been received from Messrs. Uselma 

 C. Smith and John Ford. We have also received from various cor- 

 respondents of the Conservator, several hundred species of United 

 States and Mexican land and fresh-water shells, including a number 

 of new species, part of which have been already published in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy. 



During the year the arrangement of the families Neritidse and 

 Turbinidse, in progress at the time of the last report, has been com- 

 pleted, and that of the Trochidse, Stomatellidse and Scissurellidse will 

 be completed by the end of the present month. Of the Helices, the 

 groups monographed in the Manual during the year have been ar- 

 ranged, and work begun on the groups of European Helices, here- 

 tofore in a chaotic condition. The conservator having secured the 

 assistance of Mr. Baker during a part of each day, can now com- 

 plete the arrangement of all unarranged groups as far as the Man- 

 ual lias progressed as soon as additional cases can be secured. Mu- 

 seum work on the land shells has at present temporarily ceased from 

 lack of room. 

 H. A. Pilsbry, Edward J. Nolan, 



Conservator. Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Entomological Section, during the past year, has been much 

 benefited by an evident increase of interest at its meetings. 

 These have been held regularly each month, excepting during the 

 July and August vacation. There has been a large attendance of 

 members and associates. One member and one associate member 

 have been elected since the last report. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



The collection in the care of the Section has been carefully ex- 

 amined by the Curator of the American Entomological Society, and 

 its condition is now much better than heretofore. 



The entomological collection of the late Titian R. Peale, Esq., 

 which was presented to the Academy, has been transferred to the 

 care of the Section. After selecting therefrom much that was spoiled 

 for want of care, the remainder has been reset and labeled as the 

 " T. R. Peale Collection," in accordance with the expressed wish of 

 the heirs. 



In compliance with the request of the Academy, the Entomologi- 

 cal Section has selected the meeting of the second Tuesday of each 

 alternate month at which to bring before the Academy matters 

 pertaining to entomology. 



The meetings of the Section have been much enhanced in interest 

 by the reports of collections and observations by its members, some 

 of whom have still further detailed the same in published articles. 



The Section desiring to make its influence more generally felt by 

 the students of Entomology, has determined to issue a publication 

 id be known as "The Entomological News and Proceedings of the 

 Entomological Section of the Academy Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia." It will be issued monthly in parts of not less than 16 

 pages, and will contain, together with the proceedings, articles from 

 contributors and a general resume of entomological matter. Mr. 

 E. M. Aaron has been appointed editor, with a supervisory com- 

 mittee to assist in the details of the work. 



At the meeting in December the following officers were elected : — 

 Director, .... Geo. H. Horn, M. D. 

 Vice Director, . . . H. C. McCook, D. D. 

 Treasurer, . . . . E. T. Cresson. 



Recorder E. M. Aaron. 



J. H. Ridings. 



Publication Com. 



Philip Laurent. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Jas. H. Ridings, 



Record' r. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Vice-Director of the Botanical Section respectfully reports 

 that the stated meetings have been held regularly during the year, 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



and that the attendance on, and interest in them have been fully 

 maintained. The section is out of debt, and has a surplus in its 

 treasury ; including a donation of 8100 from W. G. Warden towards 

 a share in the botanical explorations in Asia Minor, now un- 

 dertaken by Prof. Bornmuller, Director of the Royal Gardens of 

 Belgrade. 



Through the interest of members of the Section a number of Bo- 

 tanical Works have been added to the librarv of the Academv, while 

 the additions to the Herbarium number 2,174, of which 1,585 are of 

 flowering plants and ferns. Of these 36 represent genera not before 

 in our collection, while of species, 585 are new additions. These 

 new additions bring the number of vascular species represented in the 

 Herbarium to about 28,805. The additions to the lower crypto- 

 gams are 589. 



The conservator's account of the additions in detail is appended 

 u- part of this report; as also an abstract of the detailed work of the 

 Section by the Recorder. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice- Director. 



( 'onservator's Report for 1889. — The Conservator respectfully sub- 

 mits the following annual report upon the state of the Academy's 

 Herbarium : — 



The most important additions made during the past year are of 

 species from Tropical America, among which are worthy of special 

 enumeration, 300 species from the State of Tabasco, Mexico, per- 

 sented by Prof. Jose X. Rovirosa ; 373 species from Guatemala, col- 

 lected by H. Von Turckheim and presented by John Donnell Smith, 

 of Baltimore ; 243 species from the northern provinces of Mexico, 

 collected by C. G. Pringle in 1888, presented by the Conservator, 

 and 116 species collected by Dr. E. Palmer at San Quentin Bay in 

 Lower California and presented by the U. 8. Department of Agri- 

 culture. 



Through the kindness of Dr. Sereno Watson, of Cambridge, Mass., 

 we have received from J. Thistleton Dyer, of the Kew Herbarium, 

 Drummond's Mosses of the Rocky Mountains and British America, 

 mounted in two volumes and embracing 241) species and 33 varieties. 



From Ellis and Everhart we have received the 22nd and 23rd 

 Centuries of North American Fungi, also a special and selected 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



Century of rare Fungi, in exchange for duplicate earlier Centuries 

 received from the Estate of Dr. Geo. Martin. 



Other important additions which will appear in the detailed list 

 presented to the Academy, will raise the whole number of speci<'- 

 received during the year to 2,174, of which 1,585 are Phanerogams 

 and Ferns. Of these 585 are new to our collection, and 36 are of 

 genera not before represented. Two hundred and thirty-nine are 

 North American, 1,077 are from Tropical and South America, 144 

 are from the Eastern Continent and 125 are Australian and Poly- 

 nesian. The remaining 589 species received are of. Lower Crypto- 

 gams. How many of these are absolutely new to us we are at pres- 

 ent not able to determine, from the fact that we lack catalogues of 

 our large collections in that department. It is much to be desired 

 that the Committee in charge of our Fungi shall be able soon to ac- 

 complish the work committed to them, for its completion will be a 

 great step towards supplying the need referred to. 



The number of species of vascular plants now in the Herbarium 

 is estimated at 28,805. 



All of the accessions of the past year have been carefully poisoned 

 to prevent the ravages of insects, and the North American species 

 have been mounted. 



Respectfully submitted, 



John H. Redfield, 



Conservator. 



The Recorder makes the following report of the transactions of 

 the Section during the current year : — 



Nine meetings have been held with an average attendance of eight 

 members each, excluding the present meeting. 



Communications of great interest have been made by Messrs. Mee- 

 han and Redfield, and Drs. Rothrock, Wilson, Brinton, Rex and 

 others. 



During the present year a special effort has been made by the 

 Section, at the request of the Academy, to add to the interest of the 

 general meetings, by bringing matters of Botanical interest before the 

 Academy at stated periods. 



The announcement of the rediscovery of an old locality of Cor- 

 ema Conradii on the New Jersey coast was made ; also of a new lo- 

 cality of the same plant on the Maine coast ; also the finding of the 

 arctic Stellaria humifusa on the Maine coast w r as announced. 




438 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



An excursion of great interest, to the Pocono Mt., in company 

 with the Torrey Botanical Club of New York, was made, in which 

 Botrychium simplex was found. 



The following officers were elected to serve during the ensuing 

 year : — 



Director, 

 Vice Director, 



W. S. W. Ru'schenberger. 

 Thomas Meehan. 

 Isaac C. Martindale. 

 Isaac C. Martindale. 

 John H. Redfield. 

 Charles Schaffer. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Charles Schaffer, 



Recorder. 



Corresjionding Sec, 

 Treasurer, 

 Conservator, 

 Recorder, 



REPORT OF THE MINER ALOGICAL AND 

 GEOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section would 

 respectfully report that owing to the unusual absence from the city 

 of the members most active in the Section, the meetings have not 

 been as numerous or as large as in former years but there has 

 been no lack of interest. The meetings jointly with the Academy 

 have been generally regarded as interesting and successful. Con- 

 siderable additions have been made to the collection. Many of 

 the specimens were procured by purchase with the funds of the Sec- 

 tion. 



The following officers were elected to serve during the ensuing 

 year : — 



Director, . . Theodore D. Rand. 



Vice Director, 



Treasurer, 

 Conservator, . 

 Recorder and Secretary, 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 John Ford. 

 William W. Jefferis. 

 Charles Schaffer. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Raxd, 



Director, 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 



PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports 

 that owing to the unfortunate circumstances attending the illness of 

 the late Chairman of the Committee on Instruction, and the failure 



# 



to have the course of lectures outlined ratified in time for the spring 

 season, he has been obliged to forego the delivery of the regular 

 course of instruction in his department this year. An attempt to 

 have these lectures delivered in the autumn months was frustrated 

 by the unusual amount of work which had fallen into his hands. 



The geological and paleontological collections of the Academy are 

 steadily receiving important accessions of material, but, as in all 

 other departments of the institution, they suffer largely from lack of 

 room for their proper disposition and arrangement. A further sys- 

 tematic display without stacking is no longer possible; indeed, the 

 foreign collections have long since been dispossessed of their proper 

 space to make room for the rapidly increasing collections illustrat- 

 ing American geology. The growth during the last few years has 

 been most rapid in the field of tertiary paleontology, where the Acad- 

 emy's collections stand unrivalled. This is also true of the repre- 

 sentation of the cretaceous series, but as regards paleozoic' paleon- 

 tology the Academy h is always been sadly deficient. The extensive 

 collections of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey, which are now in 

 the custody of the Academy, and to the exhibition of which ample 

 space will be given in the proposed new building, will make good 

 this deficiency, and place the entire collection in a condition of un- 

 usual completeness. The cataloguing and numbering of the Sur- 

 vey's collection was completed during the year by officers of the Sur- 

 vey. 



Among the more important accessions to the Academy's collections 

 during the year may be instanced the extensive series of tertiary fos- 

 sils transmitted to the undersigned by the State Geologists of Texas, 

 representing the collections recently made by the Survey of that 

 State. These have not yet been thoroughly worked over. They rep- 

 resent much the largest series of tertiary fossils that has been thus far 

 obtained from the State, and throw important light upon the geology 

 of the Gulf basin. A report will accompany their final study. An- 

 other important addition to the collections made during the year is 

 a series of fossiliferous and highly metamorphosed rocks from the 

 Calciferous (?) horizon of the region about Philadelphia, the first 




440' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



fossil-bearing rocks which have been obtained from this horizonin that 

 portion of the State. The greater part of this important donation 

 the Academy owes to the generosity of Mr. Louis Woolman. 



Respectfully submitted, 



A.NGELO HeILPRIX, 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND 



ARCHAEOLOGY. 



Owing to my absence in the late winter and spring of the current 

 year, the usual course of lectures was omitted, compensation for 

 which will be made by an unusually full course planned for the 

 present season. 



No important additions have been received in the collections of 

 these departments, though it would be easy to acquire large acces- 

 sions were proper space for their display available. This we may 

 expect at an early date in the new building. 



Respectfully submitted, 



D. G. Brinton, 

 Professor of Ethnology and Archceology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 



ZOOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that, 

 having a leave of absence, he spent the winter of 1888-1889 on 

 the Islands of the Lesser Antilles, for the purpose of making collec- 

 tions. Some specimens have been already given to the Academy 

 and he hopes soon to have them all ready for presentation. Owing 

 to his absence from Philadelphia he was unable to deliver any 

 lectures during the past year. 



It is proposed to give a course of five lectures during the spring 

 of the coming year on " The Caribbean Islands." 



The additions to the museum for the year have been quite im- 

 portant. In addition to specimens of general interest, Mr. W. N. Lock- 

 ington has presented a collection of starfishes, echinoderms, Crustacea 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



and coelenterates, collected on the Californian coast of the United 



States. A large number of coelenterates, principally coralline forms 

 and sponges, anthropods, echinoderms and a few worms and ascidians 

 — collected by the expedition to the Bermudas conducted by Prof. 

 A. Heilprin, have been presented. Many new species have been 

 found in this collection and described. Prof. H. C. Chapman has 

 also added to the collection, worms, crustaceans and coelenterates, 

 collected on the coast of Maine. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benjamin Sharp, 



Professor of Invertebrate Zoology. 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF \VM. C. HENSZEY, 



TREASURER. 



For the Year Ending Nov. 30, 1889. 

 Dr. 



To Balance from last account 1602 66 



" Initiation Fees 1(30 00 



" Contributions (semi-annual) 1597 50 



" Life Memberships 700 00 



" Popular Lectures 132 50 



" Sales of Proceedings, Journals, etc 466 60 



" Interest on Investments 3998 24 



" State tax on Mortgages 209 10 



" Rentals from Real Estate ,. 1485 27 



" Wilson Fund, towards Salary of Librarian 300 00 



" Sale of duplicate Books 11 65 



" Interest on Money awaiting Investment 638 44 



" Miscellaneous 1 40 



" Donation, Conchological Section 9 45 



" Donation, Biological and Microscopical Section 50 00 



£11362 81 



Cr. 



By Salaries, Janitor, etc 3668 32 



" Insurances 55 00 



" Coal 295 75 



" Life Memberships transferred to Investment account 700 00 



" Printing and Binding Proceedings, etc 1155 95 



" Taxesand Water Rents 347 46 



" Printing and Stationery 81 90 



" Plates and Engravings 367 10 



" Postage 18 50 



" Gas 128 12 



'' State Tax on Mortgage Investments 209 10 



" Miscellaneous 382-77 



" Cards, Trays and Boxes 115 04 



" Glass and Glassware 210 15 



" Lecture Fees paid to Professors 182 50 



" Specimens 7 00 



" Expenses Publication Committee 200 00 



" Cases and drawers 85 20 



" Repairs and Expense to Real Estate 1502 69 



" Books 314 16 



" Mounting Specimens 12 00 



" Alcohol 46 50 



" Binding 210 80 



" Expenses, Curators 300 00 



10596 01 



Balance $766 80 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance overdrawn last statement 1233 03 



Books 841 54 



Collection 79 96 



Taxes and Water Rents 196 57 



Repairs to Houses 318 29 



Miscell aneous 18 00 



$2687 39 



Rents collected 956 20 



Ground Rents collected 653 10 



1609 30 



Balance overdrawn $1078 09 



THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Income from Investments 525 00 



Balance overdrawn last statement 63 85 



Books 140 17 



Transferred to General Account toward Salary of Librarian... 300 00 



504 02 



Balance due Academy 20 98 



JESSUP FUND (For assistance of Students). 



Balance last statement 368 01 



Interest on Investment 560 00 



928 01 



Disbursements 750 00 



Balance due Academy 178 01 



WILLIAM S. VAUX FUND. 



Balance last statement 619 29 



Interest on Investment 700 00 



1319 29 



Cash paid for Minerals 250 00 



Cash paid for cases for Collections 500 00 



750 00 



Balance due Academy 569 29 



INVESTMENT ACCOUNT. 



Balance at last statement 6624 95 



Cash received from W. C. Smith legacy of Jno. L. Mill dec"d 3400 00 

 " received from J. Clarence White Extinguishment of two 



Ground Rents 3150 00 



" received from Richard Boswell Extinguishments of 



Ground Rents 3937 00 



" transferred from General Account of Life Memberships 700 00 



17811 95 



Cash received from State of Pennsylvania on account of appropriation 



to the new Building of the Academy 6250 00 




444 TROCHE DINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Finance 

 Committee, to serve during the year 1890, was held, with the follow- 

 ing result : — 



President, . . . Joseph Leidy, M. D. 

 Vice-Presidents, . . Thomas Meehan, 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 

 Recording Secretary, . Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Corresponding Secretary, George H. Horn, M. D. 

 Treasurer, . . . William C. Henszey, 

 Librarian, . . . Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Curators, . . . Joseph Leidy, M. D. 



Jacob Binder, 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Councillors to serve three Uselma C. Smith, 

 years, . . . Aubrey H. Smith, 



Geo. A. Koenig, Ph. D. 



Geo. A. Rex, M. D. 

 Finance Committee, . Isaac C. Martindale, 



Aubrey H. Smith, 



Wm. W. Jefferis, 



Joseph Willcox, 



Charles Morris. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1889. 



MEMBERS. 



January 29. — W. Xavier Sudduth, M. D., Edward Bancroft, 

 Henry Phillips Coleman, W. Moylan Lansdale. 



February 26. — Edwin J. Houston. 



March 26. — Louis Schneider. 



April 30. — W. B. Van Lennep, M. D., Charles E. Ridenour. 



May 28. — Miss Emma Walter, Henry Bentley, Henry C. Johnson, 

 William M. Meigs. 



June 25. — William Gerlach, A. Sydney Biddle. 



September 24. — Thomas Stewardson. 



October 29. — Theo. H. Conderman. 



November 26. — C. D. Lippincott, Minford Levis, M. D., Samuel 

 Stryker Kneass, M. D., James F. Sullivan, Mrs. Elizabeth S. Bladen, 

 Thomas M. Lightfoot. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



January 29. — JoseN. Roverosa, San Juan Bautista, Mexico; Sir 

 « John Lubbock, London. 



April 30. — Max Furbringer, Jena. 



May 28.— Geo. H. French, Carbondale, 111. 



November 26. — N. M. Romanoff (Grand Duke Nicholas of 

 Russia). 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1889. 



Mammalia. 



H. C. Chapman. Prepared lungs of the Manatee. Bat (unidentified) from Nas- 

 sau, VV. I. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Herpestes Ichneumon, Egypt; hybrid 

 between Macacus cynomolgus and Cercocebus fitliginosus ; Macacus innuus, 

 Rock of Gibraltar; Galictis vittata, Africa; skeleton of Cercocebus fuliginosus ; 

 Phascolomys lalifrons ; Felis concolor ; Felis pardus ; Gulo luscits ; Ovis 

 tragelaphus ; Bos gruniens (skeletons); Midas ursulus ; Cercopithecus Camp- 

 belli ; Didelphys Virginianus ; Canis procyonides. 



Benjamin Sharp. Two specimens of red howling monkey (obtained in the island 

 of Trinidad). 



Birds. 



H. C. Chapman. Skull of the Flamingo. 



M. M. Tray. One hundred and thirty eggs, principally of North American birds ; 

 twenty eight skin^, collected in vicinity of Philadelphia. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Chrvsotis autumnalis; Aramides Cayennen- 

 sis and Brotogenys tori ; Phasianus versicolor, Japan ; Cariama eristat'a (skele- 

 ton). 



• Reptiles and Amphibians. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Varamis Bengalensis, India ; Trachysaurus 

 rugosus, Australia ; Cyclura nubila. Isle of Pines. We>t Indies ; Iguana tuber- 

 culata. Tropical America; Eunectes murinus, South America; Tubmambis 

 teguixin ; Iguana tuberculata. 



H. C. Chapman. A collection of snakes and lizards from West India Islands 

 (Dromicus, Bothops lanceolatus, Thecadactylus, Mavonia, and Anolis). 



A. F. Gentry. Chrysemys picta. 



F. C. Baker. Pkrynosoma coronata found by E. H. Baker in Cat Swamp, Prov- 

 idence, R. I. 



A. B. Macklay. Chelydra serpentina, Hatborough, Pa. 



FlSlIKS. 



II. R. Heyl. Cyprinus carpio, Delaware River. 

 Witmer Stone, Skeletal parts of the Cod. 



W. N. Lockington. Collection of fishes from the West Coast of North America. 

 . H. C. Chapman. Sixteen species, Mt. Desert, Me. 



Recent Invertkhrata (excluding Mollusca). 



* 



H. C. Chapman. Thelyphnnus giganteus, California; a collection of Inverte- 

 brates from Mt. Desert, Me.; Centipedes from Nassau. W. I. 



J. Ford. Eupagurus pollicaris, Atlantic City, X. J. ; Echinarachnius excentricus 

 Monterey, Cal. 



U. C. Smiih. Asterias arenicola, Atlantic City, N. J. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Asterias arenicola, Atlantic City, N. J.; Two species of Crusta- 

 cea from Atlantic City, N. J. 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



W. N. Lockington. An extensive collection of Invertebrata from the West Coast 



of America. 

 Witmer Stone. Seven species of Crustacea from the New Jersey Coast. 

 F. Beamer. Asterias arenicola, Atlantic City, N.J. 

 J. Leidy. Gonyleptes curvipes, Aymas, Peru ; Solpuga Cuba, Florida. 

 J. Walton. Arbaciapunctulata, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 J. E. Ives. Cirolana concharum, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 Benj. Sharp. Ophiura cinerea, Guadeloupe, West Indies. 



E. Gold-mith. Gordius, Philadelphia. 



W. J. Fox. Lepas fascicularis, Atlantic City, N. J. 



Geo. H. Horn. Three specimens of Microciona prolifera, Great Egg Harbor, N. J. 

 J. Willcox. Meyenia fluviatilis, Everglades, Fla. 



Acad. Nat. Sciences. Collection Invertebrata made in the Bermudas in 1888 

 by A. Heilprin and others. 



Mollusc a. 



F. C. Baker. Twelve sections marine shells; 9 species land, 7 marine shells; 

 Otinebra Jenksii Baker, type. 



W. G. Binney. Three species California Land Shells; one Physa, Manitoba. 

 J. H. Campbell. Three species land shells from South America. 

 Alfred Caruana. One species Pupa, Malta. 

 H. C. Chapman. Twenty specieb marine shells, Ml. Desert. 

 T. D. A. Cockerel]. Twenty five species Colorado land Mo lu>ks. 

 Conchological Sect. (By exch.), twenty-five species Euiopean land shells. 

 W. H. Dall, Helix cceca from Florida. 

 A. Dean. Terebra aciculina, Singapore. 



John Ford. Helix parietidentata Miller Ecuador; Helix straetori Pilsbry, Cay- 

 man, Id. ; two species marine, one sp. land shells ; Cyclonassa neritea L. 

 W. D. Hartman. Three species Melania and Nentnia — type of M. Schmackri — 



N. Hebride>e; eight species from New Caledonia, New Hebrides, etc. 

 Angelo Heilprin. Five species marine shells, Nantucket. 

 Acad. Nat. Sciences. One hundred twenty-five trays Bermuda Mollusks, collected 



by A. Heilprin and others in 1888. 

 Henry Hemphill. (Purchased by Conch. Sett.) 3<)0 species of land and Marine 



Mollusks from Lower California. 

 Robt. letschm. (In exch., through Conch. Sect.), thirty-two trays European land 



and fresh-water shells. 

 C. W. Johnson. Four species Florida Marine shells. 

 Joseph Leidy. Two species land shells, Salt Lake, Utah. 

 W. N. Lockington. Forty species West Coast Mollusks. 

 H. A. Pilsbry Fulgur canaliculars, with ciliate cuticle; twenty-one trays . 



phia, West Indies ; Trivia pediculus var. Fla.; six species American shells 



(types). 

 H. Rolle. Helix serpentina, Corsica, and Cylindrella Eugenes, Haiti. 



E. W. Roper. Eighteen species marine and land shells from we-tern United States. 



F. A. Sampson. Gonibasis cubicoides, etc , Mo. 



W. S- Teator. Succinea and Anodonla, Duchess Co., N. Y. 



C. T. Simpson. Two species Succinea and Anodonla, Florida 



J. A. Singley. Fifty-six trays land and fresh- water shells fiom Texas, thirty-three 



trays Texas land shells, thirteen species Texas shell-. 

 U. C. Smith. / enus tnercenaria from Holly Beach, N. J. ; Tellina Balthica : Mac 



tra lateralis; Urosalpinx cinerea; Eupleura caudata ; Scalaria Humphreysii; 



S. lineata ; Anackis avara : Gemma Manhatlanensis, etc.. New Jersey coast. 

 V. Stcrki. Pupa Hohingeri ; P. rupicola ; Zoniles Slerkii. 

 L'abbe Vathelet Sixty three species shells from Tonkin, etc. 

 F. H. White. Two forms of Selenites Vancouverensis Lea bom Astoria, Oregon. 

 Jos. Willcox. Turbo slamineus and Unio fuscafus; four species Florida shells. 




4 18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Fossu. Invertebrata. 



R. H. Wyeth. Fossiliferous rock fragment, Big Horn, Wyoming. 



I. Singley. Estheria Morsei, Texas ; forty-seven species of Eocene fossils from 



Texas. 

 T. Ford. Two species from the Post-Pliocene of California. 

 L. Woolman. Rock with Trochosmilia Atlantica, cretaceous of New Jersey; 



Fossils from Lower Silurian of Montgomery Co., Pa. 

 Conchological Section of the Academy. Collection of Post-Pliocene fossils from 



California, collected by H. Hemphill. 

 H. M. DuBois. Fossils from Trenton limestone, Duchess Co., N. Y. 

 E. T. Humble, State Geologist of Texas. Series of fossiliferous rocks from the 



Eocene of Texas. 

 Mis-, E Lvndali. Orthoceras {Gyrqceras ?) from Lower Silurian of Montgomery 



Co., Pa. 

 W. W. Jefferis. Crinoid stem and calyx, from near Glens Falls, N. Y. 

 H. Hemphill. Collection of Post-Pliocene fossils from Lower California. 



Fossil Plants. 



C. H.Sternberg. Thirty-eight trays of Cretaceous plants from Kansas. 



R. H. Wyeth. Fossil plant lmpie-sions, Leaf Spring, Montana. 



C. Van Schiver. Stigmaria, Coal Measures, Pa. 



H. M. DuBois. Lepidodendron aculeatum, Locust Gap, Pa. 



Minerals, Rocks, Etc. 



W. W. Jefferis. Phlouopite, Rossie, N. Y. ; Sphalerite with quartz, Cumberland, 

 England ; Rose Calcite, Mineral Point, Wis. ; Quartz, Zamone, Italy ; Zincite, Jop- 

 lin, Mo. ; Deweylite, Christiana, Del.; Elseolite and Socialite, Salem, Mass.; 

 Apophyllite, Keweenaw Co., Mich. ; Quartz Crystals, Arkansas; Lepidolite, Par- 

 is, Me. ; Quartz on Hematite, Cumberland, England ; Sphalerite, Granby, Mo.; 

 Calamine, Altenburg, Saxony ; Cymatolite, Redding, Conn. ; Chalcedony, Lan- 

 caster Co., Pa.; Orthoclase, Russell, N.Y. ; Magnetite, Essex Co., N. Y. ; Beryl, 

 Hebron, Me.; Rhoetizite, near Baltimore ; Pebbles, Nantucket Beach, Mass.; 

 Glaciated rock from near Glen Falls, N. Y. ; Ancient Hudson River gravel and 

 sand from near Ft. Edward, N. Y. ; Vanadinite, Yuma Co., Arizona; Prehnite, 

 Sommerville, Mass.; Magnetite, Port Henry, N. Y. 



Miss A. M. Fielde. Specimen of Rock from Borneo. 



H. M. DuBois. Hydromica schist, impregnated with Graphite, Gulf Mills, Pa. 



P. S. P.Conner. Galenite (England?) ; Quartz Crystals; Serpentine, New Texas, 

 Lancaster Co., Texas; Stalactitic Pyrite ; Magnetite in Vesuvian larva ; Blende ; 

 Pyromorphite and Coquma. 



Miss Frances Lea. Forty-four trays of rocks and quartz crystals from the collec- 

 tion of the late Dr. Isaac Lea. 



Mr. Deshong. Large crystal of Orthoclase, Deshong's Quarry, Leiperville, Pa. 



Theo. D. Rand. Chalcopyrite, Leiperville Quarries, Pa.; Quartz pseudomorph 

 after Asbestus, Maple, Delaware Co., Pa. 



Plants. 



Jose N. Roverosa. Three hundred species of plants from the province of Tabasco, 

 Mexico. 



U. S. Department of Agriculture (through Dr Geo. Vasey). One hundred and 

 sixteen species of plants collected by Dr. E. Palmer at San Quentin Bay, Lower 

 California, in Jan. 1889; fourteen species N. American and Mexican Grasses. 



Wm. M. Canby. Forty-nine species plants from Southern Europe and Sardinia. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



Thos. C. Porter. Twenty species plants from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



Thos. Meehan. One hundred and twenty species plants from various parts of the 

 world, mostly cultivated. 



J. Bernard Brinton. Cryptomeria Japonica, Cult., native of Japan; Taxusbaccala 

 var. Canadensis Cult. 



Jos. T. Rothrock. Bartsia Odontites, naturalized at Squirrel I., coast of Maine. 



Geo. W. Holstein. Nine species of plants from western Texas. 



J. Thistleton Dyer, of Kew Herbarium (through Dr. Sereno Watson); Drum- 

 mond's Mosses of the Rocky Mountains, mounted in two volumes, embracing 

 two hundred and forty-nine species and thirty-three varieties. 



John H. Redfield. Two hundred and forty-four species of plants, collected by C. 

 G. Pringle in 188S, in the provinces of Nuevo Leon, Jalisco, Guadalajara, Coa- 

 huila and Zacatecas. Mexico ; sixty-five species of plants, mostly from coasts of 

 Maine and Massachusetts ; Underwood and Cooke's N. American Hepatica?,- forty 

 species. 



Ellis and Everhart. Twenty-second and twenty-third Centuries of N. American 

 Fungi; also a special selected Century of the same, received in exchange for 

 duplicate Centuries received from the Estate of Dr. Geo. Martin. 



Chas. E. Smith. Leiicothoe recurva from Hot Springs, N. Carolina. 



T. F. Cauffman. One hundred and fourteen species Ferns from the Hawaiian 

 Islands. 



Witmer Stone. Ten species Pennsylvania plants. 



Mrs. Flora E. Haines. Pinns Banksiana, from E. branch of Penobscot R., North- 

 ern Maine. 



N. L. Britton. Fifty species plants, American and Asiatic. 



John Donnell Smith. Three hundred and seventy-three species plants collected 

 in Guatemala by H. Von Turckheim. 



F. L. Scribner. Fifteen species plants, from vicinity of Knoxville, Tenn. 



California Acad, of Natural Sciences. Forty species California plants. 



W. W. Jefferis. Celastrus scandens in fruit. 



Joseph Walton. Monstera deliciosa, cultivated ; native of Mexico. 



Isaac Burk. Fourteen species plants from ballast grounds and from New Jersey. 



Elliston P. Morris. Wood of the Gru-Gru Palm {Martinezia coralluia.) 



30 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



1889. 



Abbott, Chas. C. Days out of doors. 8vo. New York, 1889. The Author. 



Albert, Prince de Monaco. Sur l'alimentation ties naufrages en pleine mer. Dec. 



17,1888. 8voT. The Author. 



Sur la troisieme (et quatrieme) campagne scientifique de l'Hirondelle. Oct. 



24, 1887, Nov. 26, 1888. 8vo T. The Author. 



Allen, Harrison. The anatomy of the nasal chambers. 8vo T. Philadelphia, 



1889. The Author. 



American Ornithologist's Union. Check list of Norlh American birds according 



to the canons of nomenclature of the American Ornithologists' Union. 8vo. 



Washington, 1889. Supplement to the same. 8vo T. The Union. 



Apstein, Carl. Bau und Functions der Spinndriisen derAraneida. Inaug. Dissert., 



Universitat Kiel. 8vo T. 1889. The University. 



Ara"0, j. Promenade autour du monde. Vol. I, II. 8vo. Paris, 1822. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Aristotelis. Per des Eras. Roterodamen. Folio, 1539. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Audouin, V. Observations pour servir a l'histoire de la formation des perles. 

 4to T. Paris, 1828. Miss Fiances Lea. 



Australian Museum, Sydney. Memoirs No. 2. The Director. 



Bacher, Frank. Ueber Methyl und Dimethylderivate des Pyridins. Inaug. Dis- 

 sert., Universiiat Kiel. 8vo. T. 1889. University. 

 Baker, F. C. Notes on the food of birds. 8vo T. Philadelphia, 1889. 



The Author. 

 Remarks upon the round tailed muskrat, Neofiber Alleni True. 8vo. T. 

 Philadelphia, 1889. The Author. 



Bailey, Charles. Memoir of Prof. Williamson. 8vo. Salford, 1888. 



The Author. 

 Baillon, M. H. Dictionnaire de botanique. 21 — 24me. Fasc. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Baines J. A. Imperial census of 1881. Operations and results in the Presidency 



of Bombay, including Sind. Vol. I text, II tables. 4to. Bombay, 1882. 



East Indian Government. 



Barrington, Hon. D. The possibility of approaching the north pole asserted. 



8vo. New York, 1818. Miss Frances Lea.. 



Basterot, M. De. Memoire geologique sur les environs de Bordeaux. 1st Partie. 



4to. Paris, 1825. Miss Frances Lea. 



Bastian,A. Die Culturlander des alten America. 111,2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Baudelot, M. Anatomie comparee. 8vo T. Strasburg, 1868. 



Miss Frances Lea. 



Bauernfeind, Carl Max von. Das bayerische Prcecisions-Nivellement. Siebente 



Mitteilung. 4to. Miinchen, 1888. Royal Bavarian Academy. 



Becker. Geo. F. Geometrical form of volcanic cones and the elastic limit of lava. 



8vo T. 1885. Angelo Heilprin. 



Impact, friction and faulting. 8vo T. 1885. Angelo Heilprin. 



Bellardi, Luigi. I molluschi dei terreni terziarii del Piemonte e della Liguria. 



Part 5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Benedikt, Dr. Moriz. Manuel technical et pratique d'anthropometre cranio-ceph- 



alique. 8vo T. Paris, 1889. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Benson, Lawrence Sluter. Mathematics in a nut-shell. 8vo. New York, 1889. 



The Author. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Berg, Carolo. Quadraginta coleoptera Nova Argentina. 8vo T. Buenos Aires, 



1889. The Author, 



Berghaus, H. Physikalischer Atlas. L. 17 — 19. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Berlese, Aug. Napoleone. Fungi Moricolae, F. 5 — 9. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bernet, Henri. Catalogue des Hepatiques du Sud-Ouest de la Suisse et de la 



Haute Savoie. 8vo. Basel, 1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bessey, Charles E. Botany for high schools and colleges. 8vo. New York, 



1888. Purchased. 



Beverley, H. Report on the census of the town of Calcutta, taken on 17th of Feb., 



1881. 4to. Calcutta, 1881. East Indian Government. 



Bhagram, Pandit. Report on the census of the province of Ajmere-Merwara, 



taken on 17th of Feb., 1881. 4to. Ajmere, 1882. 



East Indian Government. 

 Bhatavadeker, Gajanan Kriskna. Report on the census of the Baroda territories, 

 1881. 4to. Bombay, 1883. East Indian Government. 



Blanchard, Emile. La vie des etres animes .... Les conditions de la vie chez les 

 elres animes, l'origine des etres. 12mo. Paris. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Blanford, W. F. The fauna of British India. Part I. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Blytt, A. On variations of climate in the course of time. 8vo T. Christiana, 

 1886. 

 The probable cause of the displacement of beach-lines. An attempt to com- 

 pute geological epochs. 8vo T. Christiana, 1889. 

 Additional note to the probable cause of the displacement of beach-lines. 

 Second additional note to same. The Author. 



Boissier, Edmond. Flora Orientalis. Supplementum (R. Buser.) 



1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Boitard, M. Manuel d'histoire naturelle comprenant les trois regnes de la nature. 



8vo. Part 2. Paris, 1827. Miss Frances Lea. 



Borchert, H. Anatomisch-physiologische Untersuchungen der Haftscheibe von 



Cyclopterus lumpus L. Inaug. Dissert., Univeisitat, Kiel. 8vo T. 1889. 



The University. 



Borne, Max von dem. Tod den Fischfeinden. 8vo. Berlin. The Author. 



Bone, A. Preudhomme de. Conseils pour l'etude des Palpicornes aquatiques. 



Svo T. Bruxelles, 1889. 



Liste des Passalides recueillis en 1872 par feu Camille Van Volxem pendqnt 



son voyage au Bresil. 8vo T. Bruxelles, 1888. 

 Materiaux pour la faune entomologique du Hainant. Coleopteres. Quatri- 



eme centurie. 8vo T. Bruxelles, 1889. 

 Repertoire alphabetique des noms specifiques admis ou proposes dans la sous 



famille des Libellulines. 8vo T. Bruxelles, 1889. 

 Sur le Bembidium biguttatum Fab., etles voisines. Bruxelles, 1888. 



The Author. 

 Boulenger, Geo. A. Catalogue of the chelonians, rhynchocephalians and croco- 

 diles in the British Museum. 8vo. London, 1889. 



Trustees of British Museum. 



Bourdillon, J. A. Report on the census of Bengal, 1881. Vol. I — II. 4to. 



Calcutta, 1883- . East Indian Government. 



Boveri, Theodor. Zellen Studien. Hefts 1, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Boyle, Robert. The works of the Honorable Robert Boyle. In six volumes. To 



which is prefixed the life of the author. Vols. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6. London, 



1772. Wm. John Potts. 



Bradbury, John. Travels in the interior of America, in the years 1809, 1810 and 



1811. 8vo. Liverpool, 1817. Thomas Meehan. 



Brady, Henry B. A synopsis of the British recent foraminifera. 8vo T. London, 



1887. 



Note on Keramosphaera, a new type of porcelaneous foraminifera. 8vo T. 



1882. 

 Note on Syringagammina, a new type of arenaceous rhizopods. 8mo T. 

 1883. Angelo Heilprin. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Branner, J. C. Geological survey of Arkansas. Annual report for 1888. 



Vol. I— III. The Author. 



Barvard, A. Recherches sur les ossemens fossiles. 8vo T. 1826. 



Miss Frances Lea. 



Brefeld, O. Untersuchungen aus dem Gesammtgebiete der Mykologie. VII. H. 



Basidiomyceten. II, III. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Brinton, Daniel G. Aims and traits of a world language. 8vo T. New York, 



1889. 



The ethnologic affinities of the ancient Etruscans. 8vo T. Philadelphia, 



1889. The Author. 



Brongniart. A. et Elie de Beaumont. Observations sur le phenomene diluvien 



dans le nord de l'Europe. Svo T. Paris. Miss Frances Lea. 



Bronn's Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier-Reichs. IV, Bd., 7, 8, L. ; V Bd., 



2 Abth., 20—22; VI Bd., 3 Abth., 61—64, 4 Abth., 22—27. 



Wilson Fund. 



Brown, Nathan C. A catalogue of the birds known to occur in the vicinity of 



Portland, Me. 8vo. Portland, 1882. The Author. 



Briihl, Carl Bernhard. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Atlas L. 40. 4to. Wien. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bucquoy, E., Ph. Dantzenberg and G. Dollfus. Les mollusques marins du Rous- 



sillon. Fasc. 15, 16. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Buelna, Eustaquio. Constitucion de la atmosfera o leyes que rigen la desidad, 



peso, altitud y temperatura del aire. 8vo. Mexico, 1889. 



Mexican Geographical Society. 

 Burdon-Sanderson, J. Translations of foreign biological memoirs. I. Memoirs 

 on the physiology of nerve, of muscle and of the electrical organ. 8vo. 

 Oxford, 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Burmeister, Hermann. Reise durch die La Plata-Staaten, 1857 — 1860. 2 vols. 

 8vo. Halle, 1861. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



California State Mining Bureau. Annual Report No. 8. State Mineralogist. 



Call, R. Ellsworth. Description of two new species of the genus Unio from the 

 Ozark region of Missouri. 

 On the gross anatomy of Campeloma. June, 1888. The Author. 



Campbell, Archibald and W. J. Twining. Department of State. Reports upon 

 the survey of the boundary between the territory of the United States and 

 the possessions of Great Britain from the Lake of the Woods to the summit 

 of the Rocky Mountains. March 3, 1877. 4to. Washington, 1878 with 

 Atlas, folio. Department of State. 



Canada. Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada. Catalogue of Cana- 

 dian Plants. Part I. Purchased. 

 Contributions to Canadian Paleontology. I, 2. 



Geological Survey of Canada. 

 Carson, Hampton L. History of the celebration of the one hundredth anniver- 

 sary of the promulgation of the constitution of the United States. 4to. 2 

 Vols. Philadelphia, 1889. The Committee of Arrangements. 



Caruel, Teodoro. Flora Itahana. VIII. Part 2. The Author. 



Census of the native States of Rajputna, 1881. 4to. Bombay, 1882. 



East Indian Government. 

 Century Dictionary, an encyclopedic lexicon of the English language. Pt. 1 — 7. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Chaper, M. & P. Fischer. De l'adoption d'une langue scientifique internationale. 



Rapport presente a la Societe zoologique de France le 12 Juin, 1888. 



Paris, 1888. The Authors. 



Clessin, S. Die Genera der recenten siiswasser Bivalven. 8vo T. 



Die Gruppe Fruticola Hela des Genus Helix, L. 8vo T. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Die Moilusken-Fauna Oesterreich-Ungarns und der Schweiz, L. 4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



Cohn, F. Kryptogamen-Flora von Schlesien. 3er Bd., oe L. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cope, Edw. D. On the relations of the hyoid and otic elements of the skeleton in 

 the batrachia. Nov. 2. l.SSS. 

 On the mammalia obtained by the Naturalist Exploring Expedition to South- 

 ern Brazil. 8vo T. May, 1889. 

 The Proboscidia. 8vo T. August, 1889. 



A review of the North American species of Hippotherium. 8vo T. Philadel- 

 phia, 1889. The Author. 

 Cordier, M. Essai sur la temperature de l'interieur de la terre. 8vo T. Paris, 

 1827. Miss Frances Lea. 

 Cornalia, E. & P. Panceri. Osservazione zoologico anatomiche sopra un nuova 

 genere di crostacei isopodi sedentarii. 8vo T. Turin, 1858. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Cotes, E. C. & C. Swinhoe. A catalogue of the moths of India. Parts IV, VII. 



East Indian Government. 



Coulter, John M. & J. N. Rose. Revision of the North American Umbelliferae. 



Herbarium of" Wabash College, Crawfordsville, Ind. The Author. 



Coutinho, Antonio Xavier Pereira. Curso de silvicultura. T. I, Botanico flores- 



tal ; T. II, Esboco de uma flora lenhosa Portugueza. 8vo. Lisboa, 1886 



-87. Academy of Sciences of Lisbon. 



Crosby, W. O. Geology of the Black Hills of Dakota. 8vo T. Salem, 1886. 



Angelo Heilprin. 

 Curtis, Wm. Eleroy. Trade and transportation between the United States and 

 Spanish America. 8vo T. Washington, 1889. Department of State. 



Cutter, Ephraim & J. A. Fo >d versus baccilli in consumption The Author. 



Cuvier et Dumeril. Extrait du rapport sur le memoire presente par M. M. Au- 

 douin et Milne Edwards. 8vo T. Paris, 1828. 

 Rapport sur un memoire de M. M. Audouin et Milne Edwards ayant pour 

 titre : de la respiration aeriennedes crustaces, et des modification que pre- 

 sente l'appareil branchial chez les crabes terrestres. 8vo T. Paris, 1S28. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Dames, W. & E. Kayser. Palaeontologische Abhandlungen. IV, 3-5. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Dana, James D. On the volcanoes and volcanic phenomena of the Hawaiian Is- 

 lands. 8vo. New Haven, 1889. The Author. 

 Danmar, William. The tail of the earth; or the location and condition of the 

 " spirit world". 12mo. Brooklyn, 1887, The Author. 

 Darwin, Chas. The structure and distribution of coral reefs. 8vo. New York, 

 1889. Prof. A. Heilprin. 

 Dawson, Geo. M. Notes on the Indian tribes of the Yukon District and adjacent 

 northern portion of British Columbia. 12mo. 1887. The Author. 

 Dawson, Sir f. William. On cretaceous plants from Port McNeill, Vancouver Is. 

 May 25, 1888. 

 On the eozoic and palaeozoic rocks of the Atlantic coast of Canada, in compar- 

 ison with those of western Europe and of the interior of America. Nov., 



1888. 

 Note on Balanus Harneri in the pleistocene at Riviere Beaudette and on the 

 occurrence of peculiar varieties of Mya arenaria and M. truncata in the mod- 

 ern sea and in the pleistocene. Jan., 1889. The Author. 



DeCandolle, A. & C. Monographic phanerogamarum prodromi. VI. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Dees, Eugenius Daday de. Crustacea cladocera faunae Hungaricae. Budapest, 

 1888. Royal Hungarian Society of Sciences. 



Deleuze, M. History and description of the Royal Museum of Natural History. 

 8vo. Part II. Paris, 1823. 



Desor, E. De l'orographie des Alpes dans ses rapports avec la geologic 8vo T. 

 Neuchatel, 1862. Miss Frances Lea. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Dickerson, Edward N. Joseph Henrv and the magnetic telegraph. New York, 

 1885. The Author. 



Dictionnaire des sciences anthropologiques. 4to. Paris. Purchased. 



Dippel, Dr. Leupold. Handbuch der Laubholzkunde. T.I. 8vo. Berlin. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Dobson, G. E. On the comparative variability of bones and muscles. 8vo T. 

 London, 1881. 

 On the mythology and visceral anatomy of Capromys melanurus with a de- 

 scription of the species. 8vo T. London, 1884. 

 On the unimportance of the presence or absence of the hallux as a generic 



character in mammals. 8vo T. London, 1881. 

 Report on accessions to our knowledge of the Chiroptera during the past two 

 years. 8vo T. London, 1888. Angelo Heilprin. 



Dollfuss, Gustave. Bryozoaires. 8vo T. Paris, 1887. 

 Groupe quarternaire. 8vo T. Paris, 1888. 



Une coquille remarquable des Faluns de l'Anjou, Melongena cornuta Agas- 

 siz. Sp. (Pyrula). 8vo. Angers, 1888. The Author. 



Dollfuss, G. & Ph. Dautzenberg. Descriptions de coquilles nouvelles des Faluns 

 de la Touraine. 8vo T. 1886. Angelo Heilprin. 



Drapiez, M. Mineralogieusuelle, ou exposition succincte et methodique des min- 

 eraux. 8vo. Paris, 1826. Miss Frances Lea. 



Drysdale, F. Census of the Central Provinces, 1881. Vol. I, II. 4to. Bom- 

 bay, 1882. East Indian Government. 



DuChaillu, Paul B. The Viking Age, the early history, manners and customs 

 of the ancestors of the English-speaking nations. 8vo. 2 Vols. New 

 York, 1889. Purchased. 



Dufrenoy. M. Memoire sur les terrains tertiares du bassin du midi de la France. 

 8vo T. 1834. Miss Frances Lea. 



Dumble, E. F. Texas geological and mineralogical survey. First report of prog- 

 ress, 1888. 8vo T. Austin, 1889. The Author. 



Dunker, G. De Septiferis genere Mytilaceorum et de Dreisseniis. 4to T. Mar- 

 burg, 1845. 

 Ueber die im Kasseler Muschelkalk bis jetzt gefundenen Mollusken. 4to. 

 Cassel, 1848. Miss Frances Lea. 



Duval, Mathias. Atlas d'embryologie. 4to. Paris, 1889. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Dyer, Thiselton & Profs. Newton, Flower, Carruthers, and Sclater. Report of the 

 Committee appointed for the purpose of reporting on the present state of our 

 knowledge of the zoology and botany of the West India Island, and taking 

 steps to investigate ascertained deficiencies in the fauna and flora. (Brit. 

 Assoc.) 1888. 8vo T. The Author. 



Eberhart, Noble M. Outlines of economic entomology, designed as a text-book 

 for schools and colleges, and as a reference-book for farmers and garden- 

 ers. 8vo. Chicago, 1888. The Author. 



Eckfeldt, John W. Some new North American lichens. 8vo. New York, 1889. 



The Author. 



Eckstein, Karl. Pepetitorium der Zoologie. Ein Leitfaden fur Studierende der 

 Natur und Forst-wissenschaft, sowie der Medicin. 8vo. Leipzig, 1889. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Egypt Exploration Fund. Memoirs I — V. Henry N. Rittenhouse. 



Emery, Titus Salter. Inorganic coal and limestone in an electro-chemical world. 

 8vo. Philadelphia, 1888. The Author! 



Encyclopaedia Britannica. 9th Ed. XXIV and Index. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Encykoptedie der Naturwissenschaften. 1 e. Abth. 58 — 61 L. ; 2 e. Abth. 51 — 53 ; 

 3 e. Abth. 1, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund'. 



Engler, A. und K. Prantl. Die naturlichen Pflanzenfamilien. L. 21 — 36. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



Esperanto, Dr. An attempt towards an international language. Warsaw, Russia. 

 Translated by Henry Phillips, Jr. 8vo T. New' York, 1889. 



Angelo Heilprin. 



Etheridge, Robert. Fossils of the British Islands. stratigraphically and zoologically 



arranged. Vol. I. 4to. Oxford, 1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ewing, Thomas, Address of, at the centennial celebration at Marietta, Ohio, July 



loth, 18S8, of the settlement of the Northwest Territory. Second Edition. 



The Author. 

 Eyerman, Tohn. On the mineralogy of the French Creek Mines in Pennsylvania. 

 Jan. 14, 1889. 

 The minerajogy of Pennsylvania. Part I. 12mo. Easton, Pa., 1889. 



The Author. 



Fabre, J. H. Souvenirs entomologiques. Etudes sur l'instinct et les mceurs des 



insects. 8vo. Paris, 1886. Harold Wingate. 



Fantuzzi, Marco G. Osservazioni geognostische sul coloramento dialcunepietre e 



sulfa formazione di unagata che si trova nel Museo Ginanni di Ravenna. 



8vo T. Ravenna, 1857. Miss Frances Lea. 



Farlow, W. G. On some new or imperfectly known alga: of the United States. I. 



The Author. 

 Ficalho, Conde de. Flora dos Lusiadas. 8vo. Lisboa, 1880. 



Academy of Sciences of Lisbon. 

 Finland. Finlands Geologiska Undersokning, Beskrifning till Kartbladet af. K. 

 Ad. Moberg. Nos. 10, 11, with maps. The Survey. 



Fischer, J. G. Die Gehirnnerven der Saurier. 4to T. Hamburg, 1852. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Fischer, P. Observations sur 1' Auricula (Alexia) denticulata. 8vo T. 1878. 



A. Heilprin. 



Fitzgerald, Desmond. Evaporation. 8vo T. 1886. The Author. 



Fischer. P. & H. Crosse. Mission Scient. an Mex. Rech. zool. "me. Partie. 



Etudes sur les mollusques terrestreset fluviatiles,pp. 129 — 176, pis. 43 — 46. 



The Authors. 

 Fletcher, L. The dilatation of crystals on change of temperature. 8vo Lon- 

 don, 1883. The Author. 

 Foord, Arthur H. Catalogue of the fossil cephalopoda in the British Museum. 

 Part I. 8vo. London, 1888. Trustees of British Museum. 

 Forel, F. A. Faune profonde du Lac Leman. 8vo T. Lausanne, 1874.. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Forster, F. Annales d'un physician voyageur. 8vo T. Bruges, 1851. 



Miss Frances Lea. 



Franchet, A. Plantre Delavayanae. Livraison I. 8vo. Paris. Purchased. 



Frazer, Persifor. An unjust attack. (Reply to articles concerning the American 



Committee of the International Congress, by Prof. J. D. Dana and Major J. 



W. Powell, in the American Journal of Science for December, 1888.) 8vo T 



Archaean characters of the rocks of the nucleal ranges of the Antilles. 8vo T. 



1888. The Author. 

 Frederico, Leon. Lalutte pour l'existence chez les animaux marins. 8vo. Paris, 



1889. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Fritsch, Dr. Karl v. Allgemeine Geologic 8vo. Stuttgart, 1888. 



Fuchs, Theo. Die Salse von Sassuolo und die argille Scagliose. 8vo T. Wien, 



1877. 

 Ueber die Entstehung der Aptychenkalke. 8vo T. Wien, 1877. 



A. Heilprin. 

 Gabon Congo. 8vo T. Paris, 1889. 

 Gassies, J. B. Des progres de la malacologie en France. 8vo T. Bordeaux, 



1858. Miss Frances Lea. 



Geinitz, Dr. H. B. Ueber die rothen und bunten Merge] der oberen Dyas bei 



Manchester. 8vo T. Dresden, 1889. The Author. 



Genet, E. C. Memorial on the upward forces of fluids and the applicability to 



several arts, sciences, etc. 8vo T. Albany, 1825. Miss Frances Lea 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Genth, F. A. Contributions to mineralogy. No. 44. 8vo. 



On two minerals from Delaware Co., Pa. 8vo T. 1889. The Author. 



Germany. Versammlung Deutscher Naturforscher und Aerzte, Bericht. Ham- 

 burg, 1830. Miss Frances Lea. 

 Girod, Paul and Elie Massenat. Les stations de l'age du renne dans les vallees 

 de la Vizere et de la Correze. Fasc. I. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gleichen, A. Beitrag zur Theorie der Brechung von Strahlensystemen. Inaug. 

 Dissert., Universitat Kiel. 8vo T. University of Kiel. 

 Godman, F. Ducane and Osbert Salvin. Biologia Centrali Americana. Boftiny, 

 No. 25. Zoology, Nos. 7U— 76. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Goette, Dr. Alex. Abhandlungen zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Tiere. 8vo. 

 & 4to. Leipzig. II. I— IV. Purchased. 

 Goode, G. Browne. The beginning of American science. The third century. 

 8vo. Washington, 1888. Angelo Heilprin. 

 Gopcivic, Spiridion. Serbien und die Serben. I Bd. Das Land. 8vo. Leip- 

 zig, 1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gould, John. The birds of New Guinea. Parts XXIV, XXV. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Grandidier, A. Histoire physique, naturelle et politique de Madagascar. XVI, 

 2e Partie, 19e Fasc. Vol. XXVIII, T. II, Atlas, 1, 2 Partie, 18e Fasc. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Grateloup, Des Moulins, Michaud, Petit-Lafitte, Legrand, L'Abbe Blatai- 

 ron, L. Lamothe. Examen de la question relative a la reprise des travaux 

 de recherches des eaux artesiennes de Bordeaux. 8vo T. 1841. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Greely, Adolphus W. International Polar Expedition. Report on the Proceed- 

 ings of the United States Expedition to Lady Franklin Bay, Grinnell Land. 

 Vols. I, II. 4to. Washington, 1888. The Author. 



Groth, Paul. Ueber die molekular Beshaffenheit der Krystalle. Festrede der 

 K. B. Akad. der Wissen .... 28 Marz, 1888. The Academy. 



Griiber, Wenzel. Beobachtungen aus der menschlichen und vergleichenden Anat- 

 omic IX. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Haenlein, F. IL & Chr. Leurssen. Bibliotheca Botanica. Abhandlungen aus dem 

 Gesammtgebiete der Botanik. 14 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Haidinger, W. Schluss der Herausgabe der " naturwissenschaftlichen Abhand- 

 lungen u. s. w." 4to. Wien, 1852. Miss Frances Lea. 

 Halifax. Department of Mines. Report for the year 1888. The Department. 

 Hall, Rev. Alfred J. A grammar of the Kwagiutl language. 4to. Montreal, 

 1889. The Author. 

 Hamilton, Hugh. The chemical factor in disease. June 5, 1888. 



The chemical philosophy in remedy. Sept. 6th, 18S7. The Author. 



Hansbury, Fred. J. An illustrated monograph of the British Hieracia. 4to. 



Part I. Thos. Meehan. 



Hartlaub, G. Beitrage zur Ornithologie West Africa's. 4to T. Hamburg, 1850. 



Zweiter Beitrag, 1852. Miss Frances Lea. 



Hatschek, Berthold. Lehrbuch der Zoologie. le und 2e L 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hauer, F. R. C. Taylor's Kohlenstatistik. 4to. Wien, 1852. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Hay, O. P. Description of a new species of Amblystoma (Amblystoma Copeian- 

 um) from Indiana. 8vo. T. Washington, 1885. 

 Notes on a collection offish from Florida, with description, of new or little 



known species. 8vo. T. Washington, 1885. 

 On the manner of deposit of the glacial drift. 8vo. T. New Haven, 1887. 

 A preliminary catalogue of the amphibia and reptilia of the State of Indiana. 



8vo. T. Cincinnati, 1887. 

 The amphibians and reptiles of Indiana. 8vo. T. 1889. 

 Observations on Amphiuma and us young. 8vo. T. The Author. 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



Hebert, M. Observations sur les croupes sedimentaires les plus anciens du nord 

 oue>t de la France. 4to T. Paris, 1886. 

 Ouverture du congres. Svo T. Paris, 1878. A. Heilprin. 



Hector, Sir James Phormium lenax as a fibrous plant. Svo. 2nd Ed. Well- 

 ington, 1889. The Author. 

 Heilprin, Angelo. The Bermuda Islands, a contribution to the physical history 

 and zoology of the Somers Archipelago. 8vo. Philadelphia, 1889. 

 Contributions to the natural history of the Bermuda Islands. 8vo T. Oct. 

 30, 1888. The Author. 

 Helmholtz, H. von. Handbuch der physiologischen Optik. '2e Aufl., 5 L. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hensoldt, H. Methods of modern petrography. Svo. The Author. 



Henslow, George. Int. Sci. Ser. The origin of floral structures through in- 

 sect and other agencies. Svo. New York, 1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Herman, Otto. A Magyar Halaszat Konyve. A Kir. Magyar Termeszettudo- 

 manyi Tarsulat megbizasabol irta Herman Otto I, II. 8vo. Buda- 

 pest, 1887. Royal Hungarian Society of Sciences. 

 Hill, Robert T. Paleontology of the cretaceous formations of Texas. Part I. 



Angelo Heilprin. 

 Hinde, G. Jennings. On Archieocvathus, Billings and on genera allied to or as- 

 sociated with it. Svo T. London, 1889. Angt-lo Heilprin. 

 Hinrichson. Walther. Ueher in — Xvlobenzylamin. Inaug Dissert., Universitat 

 Kiel. Svo T. 1889. University of Kiel. 

 Hintze, C. Handbuch der Mineralogie. L. I. Svo. Leipzig. Purchased. 

 Hoeninghaus, F. W. Beitrag zur Monographic der Gattung Crania. 4to. Cre- 

 leld, 1828. Miss Frances Lea. 

 Holboll, Carl. Anatomische Untersuchungen tiber die Clione borealis. 4to. 

 Kopenhagen, 1838. Miss Frances Lea. 

 Honeyman, Rev. D. Glacial boulders of our fisheries and invertebrates, attached 

 ' and detached. Svo. Halifax, 1889. The Author. 

 Hooker, J. U. The flora of British India. Part XV. London, 1886. 



East Indian Government. 

 Houstoun, William. Reliquiae Houstouniana? seu plantarum in America merid- 

 ionali. Svo. Norimberga;, 1794. Thos. Meehan. 



Huot, Lucien. Siege of the fort of St. Johns in 1775. 8vo T. St. Johns, P. Q. 

 1889. The Author. 



Hyrtl, Josephus. Cryptobranchus Japonicus. Schediasma anatomicum. 4to. 

 Yindobonie, 18(55. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ibbet>on, D. C. J. Report of the census of the Panjab taken on the 17th of Feb- 

 ruary, 1888. Vols. I— III. 4to. Calcutta, 1883. 



East Indian Government. 

 Illinois. Statistics of coal in Illinois, 188S. The Bureau. 



India. Geological survey of. Records XXI, 4 ; XXII, 1—3. The Survey. 



Ingersoll, Ernst. Nests and eggs of American birds. Part I — V. 4to. 



H. A. Pilsbry. 

 International Sanitary Conference, Proceedings of the, provided for by joint reso- 

 lutions of the Senate and House of Representatives in the early part of 

 1881 . Department of State. 



Jenkins, Oliver P. and Barton W. Evermann. Description of eighteen new spe- 

 cies of fish from the Gulf of California. 1888. The Authors. 

 Johnston, II. H. The Kilima-Njaro expedition. A record of scientific explora- 

 tion in eastern equatorial Africa. Svo. London, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Jourdan, E. Les sens chez les animaux inferieurs. 8vo. Paris, 1889. 



The Author. 



Jukes-Browne, A. J. The building of the British Lies; a study in geographical 



evolution. 12mo. London, 1888. I.V.Williamson Fund. 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Julien, Alexis. A. The microscopical structure of the iron pyrites. 8vo T. New 

 York, 1886. • 

 On the variation of decomposition in the iron pyrites ; its cause and its rela- 

 tion to density. Svo T. Parts I, II, New York, 1886. 

 On the geology at Great Harrington, Mass. 8vo T. New York, 1887. 



Angelo Heilprin. 



Jones, T. Rupert and W. K. Parker. Notice sur les foraminiferes vivants et 



fossil de la Tamaique. 8vo T. Bruxelles, 1876. Miss Fiances Lea. 



Kain, C. Henry & E. A. Schultze. On a fossil marine diatomaceous deposit from 



Atlantic City. N. J. 8vo T. New York. Angelo Heilprin. 



Kenngott, G. A. TJbersicht der Resultate mineralogischer Forschungen in den 



Jahren 1844 — 49. 4to. Vienna, 1852. Miss Frances Lea. 



Kentucky, Geological Survey of. Chemical report of the coals, etc. Vol. A. 



Part III. \V. M. Linney, Report on Henry, Shelby and Oldham Counties. 



Report on geology of Mason Co. The Survey. 



Kinberg, Dr. J. G. H. Foreteckning Sfver en dyrbar Samling af val Konserver- 



ade in-och utlandska Foglar och Fogelogg. 8vo T. Stockholm, 1889. 



Kirchkofif, Alfred. Unser Wissen von der Erde. Landerkunde des Erdteils 



Europa. II, 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kitts, Eustace J. Report of the census of Berar, 1881. 4to. Bombay, 1882. 



East Indian Government. 

 Kokscharow, Mikolai v. Materialen zur Mineralogie Russlands. X, Bg. 1 — 14. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kolombatovic, G. Cephalopodi dibranchiati del circondario marittimo di Spalato. 



Newspaper slip. The Author. 



Kommission zu wissenschaftlichen Untersuchungen der deutschen Meeie in Kiel 



fiir die Jahre 1882 bis 1886. 6er Bericht. XVII— XIX. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kraus, Dr. G. Die Gewebespannung des Stammes und ihre Folgen. 8vo T. 

 Strasburg, 1868. Miss Frances Lea. 



Kraus, Gregor. Grundlinien zu einer Physiologie des Gerbstoffs. 8vo. Leipzig. 

 1889. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kreidel, W. Untersuchungen iiber den Verlauf der Flutwellen in den Ozeanen. 

 Inaug. Dissert., Universiiat Kiel. 8vo T. 1889. University of Kiel. 



Kunz, Geo. F. The meteorites from Glorietta Mountain, Santa Fe Co., New Mex- 

 ico. 8vo T. New York, 1885. 

 Hollow Quartz from Arizona. 8vo T. 1887. Angelo Heilprin. 



Meteoric iron from Arkansas, 1888 8vo. T. Washington. 

 Mineralogical Notes. 8vo. T. 1888. 

 Precious stones, gems and decorative stones in Canada and British America. 



8vo. T. Ottawa, 1888. 

 On two new masses of meteoric iron. 8vo. T. 1889. 



Precious stones. 8vo. T. Washington, 1889. The Author. 



Lang, Arnold. Lehrbuch der vergleichenden Anatomic 1 Ahth. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Laporte, T. L. Analyse des travaux de la Societe Linneenne de Bordeaux. 



8vo T. 1834. Miss Fiances Lea. 



Lamborn, Robert H. A circular note to working entomologists. New York, 



1889. . The Author. 



Lapa, J. I. Feneira. Technologia rural ou artes chimicas, agricolo-floresta^s. 



2 vols. 8vo. Lisboa, 1879, 1885. Academy of Sciences of Lisbon. 



Lawes, John B. Memoranda of the origin, plan and results of the field and other 



experiments conducted on the farm and in the laboratory of Sir John Lawes 



at Rothamsted, Herts. June, 1889. the Author. 



Lawrence, Geo N. Additional specimens of Bachman's and Swainson's warblers, 



obtained by Mr. Charles S. Galbraith in the spring of 1887. 8vo T. Tulv, 



1837. 



Description of a new species of bird of the genus Catharus from Ecuador. 



8vo T. 1887. 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



Description of a new species of wren from the island of Tobago, West In- 

 die.. Svo T. Oct., 1S88. 

 An account of the breeding habits of Puffinus Auduboni in the Island of Gren- 

 ada, West Indies, with a note on Zenaida rubripes. Svo T. Jan., 1889. 

 A new name for the species of Sporophila from Texas, generally known as S. 



Morelleti. Jan., 1889. 



Remarks upon abnormal coloring of plumage observed in several species of 



birds. 8vo T. Jan., 18S9. The Author. 



Leffmann, Henry, and William Beam. Examination of water for sanitary and 



technical purposes. 12mo. Philadelphia, 1889. Prof. Heilprin. 



Leidy, Joseph. An elementary treatise on human anatomy. Second Ed. Svo. 



Philadelphia, 1889. Purchased. 



Lendenfeld, Robert von. Descriptive catalogue of the sponges in the Australian 



Museum, Sydney. 8vo. London, 1888- 



List of errata in the catalogue of the Australian Scyphomedusaa and Hydro- 



medusse. Trustees of the Australian Museum. 



Lepsius, Richard. Handbuch z. deutschen Landes und Volkskunde. Geologie 



von Deutschland und den angrenzenden Gebieten. I, 2. 

 Leuckart, Rud. Bau und Entwickelungsgeschichte der Pentastomen. 4to. Leip- 

 zig, 1860. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Leuckart, Rud. & Carl Chun. Bibliotheca Zoologica. H. 3, 4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Leunis Dr. Johannes. Synopsis der drei Naturreiche. Bd. I, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Lewis, Henry Carvill, sketch of. 8vo T. New York, 1889. 



Lima, Wenceslau de. Flora fossils de Portugal. Monographia do Genero Dicran- 

 nophyllum (Systema Carbonico.) 4to. Lisboa, 1888. 



Geological Survey of Portugal. 

 Linden, J. •' Lindenia." Iconographie des Orchidees. IV, 3 — 12 ; V, 1, 2. 



Thos. Meehan. 

 Linne, Caroli A. Amoenitates Academicse. Vols. 7 — 10. 8vo. Erlangen, 1790. 



Purchased. 

 Locard, Arnould. Revision des especes francaises appartenant aux genres Mar- 

 garitana et Unio. 4to. Paris, 1889. The Author. 



Lohmann, H. Die Unterfamilie der Halacaridse Murr. Inaug. Dissert., Uni- 

 versity Kiel. 8vo T. 1888. University of Kiel. 

 Lommel, E. Joseph von Fraunhofer's gesammelte Schriften. Iin Auftrage der 

 math-physikal. Classe der k. B. Akademie der Wissen. 4to. Munchen, 

 1881). The Academy. 

 Lubbock, Sir John. Inter. Sci. Ser. On the senses, instincts, and intelligence 

 of animals with special reference to insects. 8vo. London, 1889. 



The Author. 



Lutz, K. G. Das Buch der Schmetterlinge, L. 9, 10. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Lydekker, Richard. Catalogue of the fossil reptilia and amphibia in the British 



Museum. Part II. 8vo. London, 1889. The Trustees. 



Lyman, Benj. S. A geological and topographical map of the New Boston and 



Morea Coal Lands in Schuylkill Co., Penna. Jan. 12, 1889. 



The Author. 

 McCoy, F. Natural history of Victoria. Decade XVI — XVIII. 



Government of Victoria. 

 McGee, W. J. Notes on the geology of Macon Co., Missouri. 8vo T. 1888. 



Angelo Heilprin. 

 Mclver, Lewis. Imperial census of 1881. Operations and results in the Presi- 

 dency of Madras. Vols. I— V. 4to. Madras, J 883. 



East Indian Government. 

 McKendrick, John G. A text book of physiology. 8vo. New York, 1888. 



Purchased. 



Maelin, Ph. V. Dictionnaire geographique de la Province de Liege. 8vo. Brux- 



elles, 1831. Miss Frances Lea. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Magrath, Maj. H. M. S. Report on the Coorg general census of 1S81, with ap- 

 pendices. 4to. Bangolore, 1881. East Indian Government. 

 Maior, Visconde (ie Villa. Tratado de vinificacao para vinhos genuinos. Secunda 

 edicao. 8vo. Lisboa, 1883. Academy of Sciences of Lisbon. 

 Marcou, Jules. Note sur la geologie de la California 8vo T. Paris, 1883. 



The " Taconic System" and its position in strategraphic geology. 8vo T. 

 Cambridge, 1885. A. Heilprin. 



Margene, Emm. de. Les progres da la geologie. 8vo T. Paris, 1888. 



A. Heilprin. 

 Marsh, O. C. Discovery of cretaceous mammalia. 8vo T. New Haven, 1889. 



The Author. 

 Martens, Win. Ueber das Verhalten von Vocalen und Dyphthongen in ges- 

 prochenen Worten. Inaug. Dissert. Universitat Kiel. 8vo. 1889. 



University of Kiel. 



Martindale, I. C. Marine algae of the New Jersey Coast and adjacent waters of 



-•- Staten Island. 8vo T. New York, 1889. The Author. 



Martini und Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet, von H. B. Kiister. 



L 365—371. Wilson Fund. 



Mason, Rev. Francis. Flora Burmanica. 12mo T. 1851. Tavoy. 



Mr. Stewart Culin. 

 Maurer. G. L. von. Rede bei der hundertjaehrigen Stiftungsfeier der K. Akad der 

 Wissen. 4to T. Miinchen, 1859. Miss Fiances Lea. 



Maza, Manuel Gomez de la. Flora de Cuba. 8vo T. Hab ana, 1887. 



Diccionario botanicos; de los nombres vulgares Cubanos y Puerto Riquenos. 



8vo. Habana, 1889. 

 Ensayo de farmacofitologia Cubana. 8vo T. Habana, 1889. The Author. 

 Meek, F. B. Report on the paleontology of eastern Nebraska. 4to. Washing- 

 ton, 1872. John C. Lincoln. 

 Meinert, Fr. Enlomologiske Meddelelser I, 5, 6 ; 11,1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Melbourne Centennial International Exhibition, 1888. Descriptive Catalogue of 



metals, minerals, fossils and timbers. 8vo T. Sydney, 1889. 

 Meneghini, Prof. Giuseppe. Alia memoria del. 24 Marzo. 1889. 8vo. Pisa, 

 1889. 

 Nouve specie di Phylloceras e di Lytoceras del liasse superiore d'ltalia. 

 8vo T. Pisa. Miss Frances Lea. 



Mercke, C. E. Ueber furfurathen Pyridin und tiber Cocain. Inaug., Dissert., 

 Universitat Kiel. 8vo T. 18S8. University of Kiel. 



Meyer, Otto. Beitrag zur Kenntniss des markischen Rupelthons. 8vo T. 



A. Heilprin. 

 Meyer, Otto and Samuel L. Penfield. Results obtained by etching a sphere and 

 crystals of quartz with hydrofluoric acid. The Authors. 



Michael, Albert D. British Oribatidte. Vol. II. 8vo. London, 1888. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Michaux, Andre. Journal of 178S — 1796. With an introduction and notes. By 

 Charles Sprague Sargent. 12mo. Philadelphia. John H. Redfield. 



Michelin, H. Description de quelques nouvelles especes d'echinodermes fossiles. 

 8vo T. Paris, 1853. Miss Frances Lea. 



Michelotti l'Abbi G. Brevi cenni sullo Studio della zoologia fossile. 8vo T. 

 Turin, 1841. Miss Frances Lea. 



Michigan State Forestry Commission. First report of the directors, 1887, 1888. 

 8vo. Lansing, 1888. The Commission. 



Mills, C. K. Cerebral localization and its practical relations. 8vo. Washington, 

 1889. 

 Lesions of the sacral and lumbar plexuses. 8vo. New York. 

 Spinal localization and its practical relations. 8vo. Philadelphia, 18S9. 



The Author. 



Milne-Edwards, A. Les expeditions scientitiques du Travailleur et du Talisman. 



Poissons, 1888. Purchased. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



Minnesota, Geological and Natural History Survey of. Report Vol. II. Annual 

 Report, 16th. The Survey. 



Miquel, F. A. G. Prolusio florae Iaponica?. 4to. Amsterdam. Thos. Meehan. 

 Mojsisoyics, E. v. und M. Neumayer. Beitrage zur Palaeontolgie Osterreich- 

 Ungarns und des Orients. Bd. VII, 3, 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Moleschott, Jac. Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der Thiere. 



XIV," 1, 2. I- V. Williamson F 



Monaco, Prince Albert de. Poissons Lune (Orthagoriscus mola) captures pendant 

 deux Campagnes de l'Hirondelle. 8vo. Paris, 1889. The Author. 



Morelet, A. Coquilles nouvelles de l'Afrique Meridionale. 8vo. 1889. 



The Author. 

 Morris, Chas. Aryan sun myths, the origin of religions. 8vo. Troy", N. Y., 

 1889. The Author. 



Morse, E. S. Embryology of Terebratulina. 4to. Boston. Miss Frances Lea. 

 Moure, A. Resume analytique et methodique. 8vo T. Bordeaux, 1839. 

 Mueller, Baron F. von. Description of a new Gompholobium from South Western 

 Australia, with notes on other species of that genus. 8vo. Melbourne, 

 1889. The Author. 



Iconography of Australian species of Acacia. Decade, 12, 13. 



Government of Victoria. 

 Museum d'Histoire Natu.relle des Pays-Bas. Catalogue, XII. 



I. V .Williamson Fund. 

 Muybridge, E. Animal locomotion. The Muybridge work at the University of 

 Pennsylvania. The method and the result. Svo. Philadelphia, 1888. 



The University. 

 Nachtigal, Dr. Gustav. Sahara und Sudan. Ergebnisse sechsjahriger Reisen in 

 Afrika. 4to. Leipzig, 1889. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Nageli, C. v. & A. Peter. Die Hieracien Mittel Europas, III. H. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturwissenschaftliche. Landesdurchforschung von Bohmen. Archiv, VII, 2. 



Prag. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Nees von Esenbeck, C. G. Die Allgemeine Formenlehre der Natur als Vor- 



schule der Naturgeschichte. 8vo T. Breslau, 1852. Miss Frances Lea. 



Netherland Entomological Society. Circular regarding nomenclature. March, 



1889. The Society. 



Neumayer, M. Ueber Brachialleisten (nierenformige Eindriicke) der Producti- 



den. 8vo T. 1883- A. Heilprin. 



Neumayer, Dr. G. Anleitung zu wissenschaftlichen Beobachtungen auf Reisen 



in Einzel-Abhandlungen. Svo. Bd'. I, II. Berlin, 1889. Purchased. 



Neumayer, M. Die Slamme des Thierreiches. Bd. I. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Newberry, J. S. The oil-field of Colorado. January, 1889. The Author. 



Newberry, J. S. Devonian plants from Ohio. 8vo T. Cincinnati, Sept., 1889. 



The Author. 

 Newbold, Michael E. Catalogue of the large and important private collection of 

 stone implements of the Archaic Indians of America and Scandinavia. 

 8vo T. Philadelphia, 1889. 

 New Jersey, Geological Survey of. Annual report of the State Geologist, 1888. 

 Final Report, Vol. I. State Map, 1889. The Director. 



New South Wales. Department of Mines. Annual report 1886. Memoirs of the 

 Geological Survey. Paleontology. No. 1. The Department. 



New York. Torrey Botanical Club. Memoirs, I. Thos. Meehan. 



New Zealand, Colonial Museum and Geological Survey of. Twenty-third annual 

 report of Colonial Museum and Laboratory. Reports of geological explora- 

 tions during 1887-88. Meteorological report for 1885. The Director. 

 Noe, G. de la. Les formes du terrain. 4to. Paris, 1S89. Texte and plates. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Note sur les derniers progres de la question de l'unification du calendrier dans ses 

 rapports avec l'heure universelle. Svo. Bologne, 1888. 



Academy of Sciences of Bologne. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Notes on the Census Operations in Central India and statements showing the pop- 

 ulation. 4to. Bombay, 1882. E. Indian Government. 

 Nyat, M. Sur une decouverte d'ossements fossiles. 8vo T. Bruxelles. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Nyst, H. Notice sur le genre Neaera, Gray et description d'une espece" fossile 

 nouvelle pour la faune Beige. 8vo. T. Miss Frances Lea. 



Ochsenius, Carl. Rechungstrennung von Kieserit und Reichardit. 8vo T. 

 1889. 

 Ueber Boracit von Douglashall. 8vo T. Marburg, 1889. 

 Ueber Maqui. 8vo T. Cassel, 1889. 



Ueber die Wirkung der Brandungan der chilenischen Kiiste. (Slip.) 1889. 



The Author. 

 Oldham, R. D. A bibliography of Indian geology ; being a list of books and 

 papers relating to the geology of British India and adjoining countries, pub- 

 lished previous to the end of A. D. 1887. 8vo T. Preliminary issue. 

 Calcutta, 1888. East Indian Government. 



Oliver, Chas. A. Double chorio-retinitis, with partial degeneration of the optic 

 nerve, associated with curious lymph extravasation into the retina and vi- 

 treous. 8vo T. 1887. The Author. 

 Pacheco, Gen. Carlos. Memoria presentada al Congreso de la Union por el Sec- 

 retario de Estado y despacho de Fomento, colonizacion, industria y com- 

 mercio de la Republica Mexicana. 4to. I — III, The Author. 

 Paetal, Fr. Catalog der Conchylien-Sammlung. 9e, lOe L. The Author. 

 Paleontographica. Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Vorzeit (Zittel). XXXV, 

 23. Wilson Fund. 

 Palassou, M. Suite des memoires pour servir a l'histoire naturelle des Pyrenees, 

 et des Pays adjacents. 8vo. Pau, 1819. Supplement to same, 182L 

 Essai sur la mineralogie des monts-Pyrenees. 4to. Paris, 1834. 



Miss Frances Lea. 



Paleontologie Francaise, Ire Ser., Animaux Invertebres, Terrain Juras. L. 87-89; 



Terrains Tertiares L. 15 — 17. Wilson Fund. 



Parker, G. H. A preliminary account of the development and history of the eyes 



in the lobster. Oct. 10, 1888. The Author. 



Parlatore, Filippo. Flora Italiana, continuato da Teodoro Caruel, VIII, Part 3. 



Pennsylvania. Second Geological Survey. Annual Reports 1886. A 2. Atlas 



pt. 2, 3, 4. AA. Western Middle Anthracite Field. Pt. II. Northern 



Anthracite Field. Pt. II, III, IV. Eastern Middle Anthracite Field. B. 



Mineralogy. C 7. Bucks and Montgomery Co. D 6. South Mountain 



Sheets. H 2. and H 3. Atlas. O 3. Museum Catalogue 3. P 4. Vol. I. 



Dictionary of Fossils. 1887, Annual Report. The Survey. 



Same Hon. Chas. M. Betts. 



State Board of Health. Third Annual Report of. The Board. 



Pergens E. Deux nouveaux types de bryozaires ctenostomes. 8vo T. Bruxelles. 



1889. The Author. 



Pilsbry, H. A. New and little known mollusks, No. 1. 8vo T. Philadelphia, 



1889. On the Helicoid land molluscs of Bermuda. Svo T. The Author. 



Plath, G. Ueber B.-Aethyl-d-Stillbazol und einige seiner Derivate. Inauga. 



Dissert., Universitat Kiel. 8vo T. 1889. University of Kiel. 



Portugal. Seccao dos Trabalhos geologicos de Portugal. Recueil d'etudes paleon- 



tologiques sur la Faune Cretacique, II, 2. The Survey. 



Pouchet, G. and H. Beauregard. Traite d'osteologie comparee. 8vo. Paris, 



1889. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Pranll, K. Lehrbuch der Botanik fiir mittlere und hohere Lehranstalten. Svo. 



Leipzig. Auf. 7. Purchased. 



Prevost, Constant. Coupe des terrains tertiaires du bassin de Paris. Folded map. 



Wm. W. Jefferis. 

 Extiait d'une lettre de., datee de Malte le 3rd Oct., 1831. 



Miss Frances Lea. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



Programme for observation of the minor planet Victoria. 4to. 1886. 



Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. 



Quenstadt, Friedrich August. Die Ammoniten de schwilbischen Jura. H. 20 and 



21, F. anil A. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Rabenhorst, L. Kryptogamen Flora Deutschlands.Oesterreichs und dei Schweiz. 



I, Bd. 3e Abth. 31 L. ; Iller Bd. L. 12, 13. 14; IVer Bd. L. 10, 11. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ramsey, E. P. Tabular list of all the Australian birds at present known to the 

 author, showing the distribution of the species over the continent of Aus- 

 tralia and adjacent islands. 8vo. Sydney. 1888. 



Trustees of Australian Museum, 

 Rathbun, R. The devonian brachiopoda of the Province of Para, Brazil. 8vo T. 

 1878. 

 Descriptive catalogue of the collection illustrating the scientific investigation 

 of the sea and fresh waters. 8vo T. Washington, 1882. 



Angelo Ffeilprin. 

 Rayet, M. Com. Meteorol. de la Gironde. Observations pluviometriques etther- 

 mometriques faites dans le Departement de la Gironde de Juin 1886 a Mai. 

 1887. Bordeaux, 1887. The Author! 



Reade, Oswald A. Plants of the Bermudas or Somers' Islands. 8vo T. Ber- 

 muda, 18S5. Angelo Ffeilprin. 

 Reinke, Dr. J. Atlas deutscher Meeresalgen. Heft I. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Renevier, E. Congres geologique international de Londres en Septembre, 1888. 

 Philippe de la Harpe, sa vie et ses travaux scientifique. 8vo. Lausanne 

 1889. The Author. 

 Report on the census ol Assam for 1881. 4to. Calcutta, 1883. 



East Indian Government. 

 Repoit on the census of British Burma. Taken on the 17th of February, 1881. 

 4to. Rangoon, 1S81. . East Indian Government. 



Reusch, Hans. Bommeloen og Karmoen med Omgivelser geologisk beskrevne. 

 Christiana, 1888. 4to. Geological Society of Norway. 



Ricart, D. Lauro Clariana y. Memoria inaugural leida en la nochedel lOleNov., 

 por D. Lauro Clariana y Rickart en la Real Academia de Ciencias natur- 

 ales y Artes de Barcelona en el Afio Academico de 1888 a 1889. Barce- 

 lona, 1889. The Author. 

 Rice, Lewis. Report on the Mysore census of 1881. 4to. Bangalore, 1884. 



East Indian Government. 

 Richter, Edward. Die Gletscher der Ostalpen. 8vo. Stuttgart, 1 888. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Rogers, H. R. Gravity. 8vo T. Dunkirk, N. V., 1889. 



The nebular hypothesis. 8vo T. Dunkirk, N. Y., 1889. The Author. 



Rolleston, George. Forms of animal life, a manual of comparative anatomy with 

 description of selected types. 8vo. Oxford, 1888, 2nd Ed. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Rosenbach, H. Microscopical physiography of the rock-making minerals; an aid 

 to the microscopical study of rocks .... Translated and abridged for use 

 in schools and colleges by Joseph P. Iddings. 8vo. New York, 1888. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Rossmassler's Iconographie der europaischen Land und Siisswasser Mollusken. 

 IV, 1, 2. I- V. Williamson Fund. 



Roumania. Harta geologica generala. Sheets 15-19, 20-24. 



Ministeral Lucrarilor publice. Anuarulu Biuroului Geologicu, Anul III* 1. 



Geological Survey of Roumania. 

 Roverosa, D. Jose N. Vida y trabajos del naturalista Belga Augusta B. Ghiebreght. 

 Explorator de Mexico. 4to T. Tabasco, 1889. The Author. 



Rutley, Frank. Rock-forming minerals. 8vo. London, 1888. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ryder, Prof. J. A. The origin and meaning of sex. 8vo T. Philadelphia, 1889. 



Academv Extra and " Biological Bulletin, No. 1." The Author. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Saccardo, P. A. Sylloge Fungorum omnium hucusque cognitorum. VI; VII, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Sachss, Julius F. Thirty six photographs illustrating papei on the evolution of the 



Cereus in Am. Journ. of Pholog., Nov., 1888. The Author. 



The evolutiou of Cereus, 1888. 8vo T. With photographs. The Author. 



Saint Hilaire, G. A. Rapport sur un travail de V. Andouin et Milne Edwards, 



ayant pour titre : Recherches anatomiques sur le systeme nerveaux des 



crustace-;. 8vo T. Paris, 1828. Miss Frances Lea. 



Saint-Leger, Dr. Recherches sur les anciens herbaria. 8vo T. Paris, 188fj. 



Vicissitudes onomastiques de la Globulaire vulgaire. 8vo T. Paris, 1889. 



The Author. 

 Sarasin, Paul & Fritz. Ergebnisse naturwissenschaftlicher Forschungen auf Ceylon 

 in den Jahren. II, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Sargent, Charles Sprague. Journal of Andre Michaux. See Michaux. 

 Sauvagere, M. de la. Recueil de dissertations, ou recherches historiques et criti- 

 ques. 8vo. Paris, 1776. Miss Frances Lea. 

 Savastano, G. N. La forza educativa, pensieri pratici. Agnone, 1888. 



The Author. 

 Scacchi, A. Sopra le specie di silicati del Monte di Somma e del Vesuvio. 4to. 

 Naples, 1852. Miss Frances Lea. 



Scheafer, P. W. The waste of anthracite mining. Oct. 29, 1888. (Sheet.) 



The Author. 

 Schiodte, J. C. Zoologia Danica. 6e H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Schimper, A. F. W. Botanische Mittheilungen aus den Tropen. H. 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schmidt, Dr. C. Zur Geologie der Schweizer Alpen. 8vo T. Basel, 1889. 



Purchased. 

 Schomburgk, R. Report on the progress and condition of the Botanic Garden 

 (South Australia) during the year 1887. The Author. 



Schmidt, Adolf. Atlas der Diatomaceen-Kunde. H. 33, 34, 35, 36. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Scott, W. B. and H. F. Osborn. Preliminary report on the vertebrate fossils of the 



Uinta formation, collected by the Princeton Expedition of 1886. 8vo T. 



Philadelphia, 1888. Angelo Heilprin. 



Scribner, F. Lamson. List of the North American A ndropogoneas. 8vo T. New 



York. The Author. 



Scudder. Samuel H. The butterflies of the Eastern United States and Canada 



with special reference to New England. Part 1-12. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Seebohm, Henry. The geographical distribution of the family Charadriidae, or the 

 plovers, sandpipers, snipes and their allies. 4to. London, 1888. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Sekiya, S. A model showing the motion of an earth particle during an earthquake. 



8vo. Tokio, 1887. The Author. 



Semper, C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 2er Th. 2er Bd. XVI H. 



2e Halfte; V Bd.. 4 L. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Servain, Dr. Georges. Etude sur les mollusques recueillis en Espagne et en 



Portugal. 8vo. Paris, 1880. The Author. 



Shaler, N. S. Aspects of the earth. 8vo T. New York, 1889. Purchased. 



Sharp, David. An address read before the Entomological Society of London at 



the anniversary meeting on the 16th of January, 1889. London, 1889. 



The Author. 



Sherborn, Chas. Davies. A bibliography of the foraminifera, recent and fossil, 



from 1665-1888. 12mo. London, 1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Shulfeldt, R. W. Outlines for a museum of anatomy. 8vo T. Washington, 1885. 



Angelo Heilprin. 

 The Navajo tanner, 1888. 



Observations upon the osteology of the North American Anseres. 8vo. 

 Washington, 1889. 




1881). J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



Observations upon the osteology of the orders Tubinares and Steganopodes. 



Svo T. Washington, 1889. ' 

 0>teological studies of the subfamily Ardeinse. Pt. I, II. Svo T. Wash- 

 ington. The Author. 

 Simonkai, Ludovicus. Enumeratio flora Transsilvanicse vesculo^ae critica Ex 

 mandata Societatis Scienliarum Naturalium Regiae Hungarian. 8vo. Buda- 

 pest, 1886. Royal Hungarian Natural History Society. 

 Simpson, Chas. T. Contributions to the mollusca of Florida. 8vo T. Daven- 

 port, 1886. The Author. 

 Stabile, l'Abbe Jos. Description de quelques coquilles nouvelles ou peu connues. 

 8vo T. Paris, 1859. Miss Frances Lea. 

 Statistics of the British-born subjects recorded at the census of India. Feb. 17th, 

 1881. 4to. Calcutta, 1883. East Indian Government. 

 Statistics of the population enumerated in the Andamans, 17th of February, 1881. 

 4to. Calcutta, 1883. East Indian Government. 

 Stearns, Robert E. C. On certain parasites, commensals, and domiciliaries in the 

 pearl oyster Meleagrinre. 8vo. Washington, 1886. The Author. 

 Steele, J. D. & J- W. P. Jenks. A popular zoology. 8vo. New York & Chicago, 

 1887, Angelo Heilprin. 

 Steiner, P. Betrachtungen iiber die Idee einer Weltsprache. 8vo T. Berlin, 

 1886. 

 Offenes Sendschreiben iiber Weltsprache, Volapiik und Pasilingua. 8vo T. 



Leipzig, 1888. 

 Summary of the universal language Pasilingua. 8vo T Darmstadt, 1889. 

 Drei Weltsprach-Systeme. 8vo T. Berlin, 1889. The Author. 



Steinmann, Gustav. Elememe der Palaontologie, 1 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Stone, Witmer. Catalogue of the Muscicapidse in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1889. 

 Graphic representation of bird migration. 8vo T. 1889. 

 On Pratincola salax Verr. and allied species. 8voT. Philadelphia, 1889. 



The Author. 

 Stossich, Michele. II genere Heterakis, Dujardin. 8vo T. Zagreb, 1888. 

 I Distomi delgi Anfibi. Lavoro monografico. 8vo. Trieste, 1889. 



The Author. 

 Strasburger, E. Histologische Beitrage. 8vo. H. II., Jena. Purchased. 



Suess, Von E. Neue Reste von Squalodon aus Linz. 8vo T. Wien, 1868. 



A. Heilprin. 



Symons, G. J. The eruption of Krakatoa and subsequent phenomena. 4to. 



London, 18>8. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Szabo, T. The first mining exposition in the U. S. of America at Denver, Col. 



8vo T. Budapest, '1882. 



On a new microchemical method of determining the feldspar in rocks. 8vo 



T. 1882. A. Heilprin. 



Taschenburg, O. Bibliotheca Zoologica, II L. 6. 



Taylor, Thos. Food products. Twelve edible mushrooms of the United States, 



illustrated with 12 colored types. How to select and prepare for the table. 



12mo. Washington, 1889. The Author. 



Taylor, R. C. Fossil fishes of the carboniferous formation or coal measures, the 



devonian system, the upper and lower silurian group. 8vo. Philadelphia. 



Mrs. R. C. Taylor. 



Theobald, W. Index of the genera and species of mollusca in the Hand-List.of 



the Indian Museum, Calcutta. Pt. I, II. The Museum. 



Thomas, Charles. Remarks on the geology of Cornwall and Devon. 8vo T. 



Redruth, 1859. Wm. W. Jefleris. 



Thomas, Oldfield. Catalogue of the marsupialia and monotremata in the collection 



of the British Museum. 8vo. London, 1888. 



Trustees of British Museum. 



31 



I 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Thompson, D' Arcy. A bibliography of protozoa, sponges, caelenterata and worms, 

 including also the polyzoa, brachiopoda and tunicata. 8vo Cambridge, 

 1S85. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Thomson, C. G. Opuscula entomologica. Fasc, VIII-X, XII, XIII. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Thomson, Sir C. Wyville. Report of the scientific results of the voyage of H. M. 

 S. "Challenger" during the years 1873-76. Zoology, text and plates, 

 XXVIII-XXXI. H. B. M. Government. 



Tiedeman, Dr. H. Beobachtungen an zwei lebenden Cliimpansi masc. et 

 fern. 8vo T. Bonn., 1879. A. Heilprin. 



Tiffany & Co. A catalogue of a collection of precious ornamental stones of North 

 America exhibited at the Paris Exposition 1889. 8vo T. New York, 1889. 



Tiffany & Co. 



Tokyo Medical Library, catalogue of the. 1888. 8vo T. The Society. 



Trumbull, Gurdon. Names and portraits of birds which interest gunners. 8vo. 

 New York, 1888. I. V. Williamson Fund! 



Tryon, Geo. W. Jr. Manual of Conchology, structural and systematic, Pt. 40-43- 

 Second Series, Pulmonata, Pt. 16-19. Conchological Section A. N. S. 



Tschirch, Dr. A. Angewandte Pflanzenanatomie I. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Tuckerman, Edward. A synopsis of North American lichens. Part II. Com- 

 prising the Lecideacei, and (in part) the Graphidei. 12mo 1888. New 

 Bedford, Mass. The Author. 



Uhlworm, Oscar and F. H. Haenlein. Bibliotheca botanica. H. 12, 13- 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



United States. Chief of Engineers, United States Army, Report of. 1888, Pts 1, 

 •_', 3. 4. Engineer Department, U. S. A. 



Commission of Fish and Fisheries. The fisheries and fish industries of the 

 United States. Section III ; V, 1-2. Text and Plates. Report for 1886. 

 Department of Agriculture. Contagious diseases of domesticated animals. 

 Investigations by Department of Agriculture, 1883-84. hvo. Washing- 

 ton, 1884. John C. Sinclair 

 Botanical Division. Bulletin No. 7 — 10. 

 Section of vegetable Pathology. Circular No. 8. 

 journal of Mycology. V. 1, 2, 3. 

 Treatment of black rot of the grape. 8vo T. 



Division of Economic Ornithology and Mammalogy. Bulletin, No. 1. 

 Division of Entomology. Bulletin, 20. Periodical Bulletin I, 6 — 12; II, 

 1 — 4. The Department. 



Department of the Interior. Bureau of Education. Circular of Information 

 1888 No. 2—7; 1889 No. 1. Report of the Commissioner for 1886-87. 



The Department. 

 Census Office. Tenth census of the U. S. XVII, 2 ; XIX, 2; XXI; XXII. 

 U. S. Geological Survey. Annual Report 7th. Mineral Products of the U. 

 S. 1882-87 (Sheet.) The Mineral Resources of the U. S. (David F. 

 Day.) 1887. Bulletin No. 43—53. Monographs XIII & Atlas XIV. 

 Report of the Commissioner of Labor for 1888. The Department. 



Department of State. Maps showing the location of the diplomatic and 

 consular offices of the United States of America, March 1, 1888. Folio 

 sheets. 



Reports from the Consuls. No. 96-100, 102-106.;, 107, 107£, 108. New 

 Series, 1889, No. 1. The Department. 



Treasury Department, Chief of the Bureau of Statistics. Quarterly and 

 annual reports, June 30, 1888, 1889, 1 ; March 31. 1889. 

 Director of the Mint. Report on the production of the precious metals dur- 

 ing 1887 and 188S. Annual report, June 3 ), 1888. 



Lighthouse Board. Annual report for the fiscal year ended, 1888- Wash- 

 ington. The Department. 

 War Department. Annual report of the Chief of Ordinance to the Secretary 

 of War for the fiscal year ended, June 30, If 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



Index catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General's Office, United 



States Army. 4to. Vol. X. The Department. 



Vasey, Dr. Geo. Report of the Botanist, for the Agricultural Department. Year 



1888. *J. M. Rusk. 



Vayssiere, A. Atlas d'anatomie comparee des invertebres. Fasc. 3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Velde, W. von. Uber einen Spezialfall der Bewegung eines Punktes von festen 



Centren angezogen wird. Inaug. Dissert., Universitat Kiel. 4to. 1889. 



Tne University of Kiel. 

 Villa, A. Sull' origine delle perle e sulla possibilita di produrle artificialmente. 

 8vo T. Milan, I860. 



Delia annessione dei molluschi di Savoja e Nizza alia fauna Fancese. 

 8vo T. Milan, 1862. 



Gite malacologiche e geologiche nella Brianza e nei dintorni di Lecco e 



particolarmente alia nuova miniera di piombo argentifero nella Valsassina 



relazione. 8vo T. Milano, 1863. Miss Frances Lea. 



Villa, A. & G. Catalogo dei molluschi della Lombardia. 8vo T. Milan, 1844. 



Miss Frances Lea. 



Villars, D. Memoires sur la topographie et l'histoire naturelle. 8vo T. Lyon, 



1804. Miss Frances Lea. 



Vogt, Carl & Emile Yung. Traite d'anatomie comparee pratique. Livr. 12 — 14. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Wadsworth, M. E. On the trachyte of Marblehead Neck, Mass. 8vo T. Bos- 

 ton, 1881. 

 The fortieth parallel rocks. 8vo T. Boston, 1883. 

 Methods of instruction in mineralogy. 8vo T. 1883. 



The argillite and conglomerate of the Boston Basin. 8vo T. Boston, 1882. 

 The Bishopville and Waterville meteorites. 8vo T. 1883- 



Angelo Heilprin. 

 Wagner, M. Die Enstehung der Arten durch raiimliche Sonderung. 8vo. 1889 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Waldheim, G. Fischer de, Notice sur quelques sauriens fossiles du Gouverne- 

 ment de Moscou. 4to. Moscou, 1846. Miss Frances Lea. 



Ward, Lester F. The paleontologic history of the genus Platanus. 8vo T. 

 Washington, 1888. A. Heilprin. 



Warren. B. H. Report on the birds of Pennsylvania. With special reference to 

 the food-habits, based on over three thousand stomach examinations. 8vo. 

 Harrisburg, 1888. Chas. M. Betts. 



Weir, T. S. Census of the city and island of Bombay taken on the 17th of Feb- 

 ruary, 1881. 4to. Bombay, 1883. Ea^t Indian Government. 

 Weisman, Dr. Aug. Die Continuetat des Keimplasmas als Grundlage einer The- 

 orie der Vererbung. 8vo T. Jena, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Westerlund, Carl Agardh. Fauna in der palaarctischen Region lebender Binnen- 

 conchylien, II. I .V. Williamson Fund. 

 White, Chas. A. Remarks on the genus Ancella, with especial reference to ils oc- 

 currence in California. 4to T. March, 1889. A. Heilprin. 

 White, E. Report on the census of the N. W. P. and Oudh and of the native 

 states of Rampur and native Garhwal, laken Feb. 17th, 1881. 4to Alla- 

 habad, 1882. Supplement. East Indian Government. 

 Willard, De Forest. Osteotomy for anterior curves of the leg. Sept., 1888. 



The Author. 



Woodward, Arthur S. Catalogue of the fossil fishes in the British Mu-eum. 



Parti. 8vo. London, 1889. Trustees of British Museum. 



Wright, E. P. Notes on foraminifera. 8vo. 1877- A. Heilprin. 



Wright, G. Frederick. The ice age in North America, and its bearing upon the 



antiquity of man. 8vo. New York, 1889. Purchased. 



Zittel, Carl A. v. Palseontographica. Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Vorzeit. 



4to. Bd. XXXV, 4— 6; XXXVI, 4— 6. Wilson Fund. 



Zuccardi, G. F. Su di alcune Aphysidae dell Oceano Pacifico, appartenenti alia 



collezione chierchia. 8vo. Naples, 1889. The Author. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Journals and Periodicals. 



Adelaide. Royal Society. Transactions, X. The Society. 



Albany. New York State Library. Reports of Trustees, 70, 71. The Trustees. 



New York State Museum of Natural History. Annual reports, 40-42. 



Bulletin I, 2-6, 1886, 1887. The Trustees. 



Regents of the University of the State of New York. Annual reports, 100, 



101, 102. The Regents. 



Altenburg. Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande. New Folge, IV. 



The Publishers. 



Amiens. Academie des sciences, des lettres, etc. Memoires, XXXIII, XXXIV, 



XXXV. 



Societe des Antiquaires de Picardie. Album Archeologique, Fasc. I, II. 



Bulletin, 1889, No. 1-3. Memoires, 3rd Ser. VIII, X. The Society. 



Societe Linneenne du Nord de la France. Bulletin, IX, 187-188. 



The Society. 



Amsterdam. K. Akademie van Wetenschappen. Jaarboek, 1886, 1887. Verhande- 



lingen, Afd. Letterk, D. XVII; Afd. Natuurk, D. XXVI. Verslagen en 



Mededeelingen, Afdeeling Natuurkunde, Deel III, IV; Afdeeling Letter- 



kunde, IV Deel. The Academy. 



Het Genootschap Natura Artis Magistra. Bijdragen tot de Dierkunde, XIX; 



XV, 1,2; XVI. Feest Nummer, 1888. The Society. 



Angers. Societe d'etudes scientifiques. Bulletin, 1886, XVI, XVII, 



The Society. 

 Societe National d' Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. Memoires, 4e. Ser. II. 

 Anvers. Societe royale de geographie. Bulletin, XIII, 3, 4. The Society. 



Arezzo, R. Accademia Petrarcadi scienze, lettere ed arti. Atti, VII, 1, 2. 



The Academy. 



Auxerre. Societe des sciences historiques et naturelles de 1'Yonne. Bulletin, 



XLII, Nos. 1, 2 The Society. 



Baltimore. Amercian Chemical Journal. X, 6 ; XI, 1 — 6. The Editor. 



American Journal of Mathematics. XI. 2 — 4, XII, 1. Index to I — IX. 



Johns Hopkins University. Circulars, No. 68 — 76. 



Johns Hopkins University. 

 Maryland Academy of Sciences, Transactions, I pp. 1 — 32. 



The Academy. 



Peabody Institute. 22nd Annual Report. The Trustees. 



Bangor. Maine State College, Agricultural Experiment Station. Annual Report. 



1888, 1889. Part 1. The Director. 



Basel. Schweizerische palaontologische Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen XV. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Batavia. Bataviasche Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. Tijschrift 



voor Indische Taal-Land-en Volkenkunde. Deel. VII, VIII, 5, 6; 



IX, X, XVI, 4; XXV— XXXII. Notulen. Deel. XVL 3, 4 ; XVII— 



XIX, XXVI. Vergaderingen. Inhoudsopgrave Tevens Prijslijst de 



Werken. The Society. 



Natuurkundig Vereen in Nederlandsch Indie. NatuurkundigTijdschiift voor 



Nederlandsch Indie. 8e Ser. IX. The Society. 



Bath. Po>tal Microscopical Society. Journal of Microscopy and Natural Science. 



II, 5 — 8. The Society. 



Belfast. Natural History and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Session 



1887-88. The Society. 



Naturalists' Field Club. Report, III, 1. The Society. 



Berkeley. Pittonia, I 5. The Editor. 



University of California. Register, 1N88-89. The Trustees. 




1889.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



4 



Berlin K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen, physikalisches, 1888, 

 Anhang. Sitzungsberichte, 1888, XXXVIII-LII, Titie and Index, 1889. 

 No. I-XXXVIII. The Academy. 



Afrikanische Gesellschaft in Deutschland. Mittheilungen, Bd. I-IV, 1, 2. 



Tlie Society. 



Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, LII, II, 3-LV, I, 2. The Editor. 



Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte. 



Verhandhmgen. 1869, Dec; 1870. [an.-Apr., Oct., Nov.; 1871, Jan.- 



March, Mai-July, Oct., Nov.; 1872-1880; 1881, April-Dec; 1882; 



1883, Juli-Dec, 1888, Jan., Feb, April, Mai, June, 1889, Jan.-Marz. 



The Society. 



Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologie, XX, 4-6; XXI, 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Deutsche Botanische Gesellschaft. Berichte, Bd. I-VI, VII, 1-7. 



Botanischer Jahrbericht (Just) XIV, ]e Abth, 2, 3 H. 2e Abth. 1, 2 H. XV, 



le Abth. 1 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Deutscher Entomologischer Verein in Berlin. Entomologische Zeitschrift, 



XXXI, 1 ; XXXII, 2; pp. 1-8, 241-232. The Society. 



Entomologischer Verein. Deutsche entomologische Zeitschrift. Jahr. 1889, 



II. I. The Society. 



Deutscher Fischerei Verein. Circular, 1889, No. 1-5. The Society. 



Gartenflora, 1889, 1-24; 1889, H. 1-12. T. Meehan. 



Deutsche geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, XL, 2-4. The Society. 



K. P. geologische Landesanstalt und Bergakademie. Jahrbuch, 1887. 



The Director. 



Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde. Verhandlungen, Bd. 1-XVI, 1-5, 7. Zeitschrift, 



Bd. XXIII, 1-6; XXIV, 1-4. The Society. 



Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde. Sitzungsberichte, 1887, Nos. 1-8; 



1888, No. 8-10. The Society. 



Jahrbiicher fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik, XX, 1-4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturae Novitatis. Friedl., 1888, No. 21-25. Title and Index; 1889, No. 

 1-9, 12-19. The Publishers. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Wochenschrift, III, 8— 26; IV, 1 — 34. 



The Editor. 

 Bern. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 1195 — 1214. 



The Society. 

 Birmingham. Philosophical Society. Proceedings, VI, 1. The Society. 



Bistritz. Gewerbeschule. Jahresbericht, 14. The Director. 



Bloomington, Ind. Indiana University, Annual Catalogue of the College. 65th 

 Year. The Trustees. 



Bologna. Accademia delle Scienze. Memorie, Ser. 4. T. Ill, 1 — 4; T, VIII. 



The Academy. 

 Bonn. Archiv fiir die gesammte Physiologie des Menschen und der Thiere, 

 XLIV, 5— 12; XLV; XLVI, 1— 5. 

 Archiv fur mikroskopische Anatomie, XXXII, 4 ; XXXIII; XXXIV, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturhistorischer Verein. Verhandlungen, XLV, 2 ; XLVI, 1. 



The Society. 

 Bordeaux. Academie nationale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Actes, 

 48e An. 

 Societe Linneenne. Actes, XLI, 4, 5, 6. 

 Socieie des Sciences physiques et Naturelles. Memoires, 3e Ser. Ill, 2. 



The Society. 

 Boston. City Hospital. 25th Report. The Directors, 



journal of Morphology. II, 1—3; III, 1, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Library Notes. Ill, 12. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Proceedings, XXIII, 3, 4, pp. 561 et seq., 

 XXIV, 1, 2, pp. 33—256. The Society. 



American Society of Naturalists. Records, 1,6. The Society. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



American Society for Psychical Research, 1885. Part 8; I, 3, 4. 



A. Heilprin. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologic, XVIII, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Jahresbericht iiberdie Fort-chritte der Chemie. Fittica, 1886. H. 1,2. 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Rundschau. Ill, No. 47 — 52; IV, 1 — 48. 



The Editor. 

 Zeitschrift fiir wissenschafiliche Mikroskopie, V, 4; VI, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bremen. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Abhandlungen, X, 3. The Society. 

 Breslau. K. Leopold-Carol. Akademie der Naturforscher. Fest-Rede bei der 

 Jubelfeier. 4to. 1853. Miss Frances Lea. 



Brisbane. Royal Society of Queensland. Proceedings, 11,1,2; III, IV, V, 3-5 ; 

 VI, 1-4. Annual Meeting, July, 1889. The Society. 



Bristol. Naturalists' Society. Proceedings, VI, 1 ; List, 1889. The Society. 



Brooklyn. Entomologica Americana, IV, 9; IV, 1-9. The Editor. 



Brooklyn Library. Annual Report, No. 31. Bulletin of New Books, No. 26. 



The Trustees. 



Briinn. K. K. Mahrisch-Schlesische Gesellschaft zur Beforderung des Ackerbaues, 



der Natur-und Landeskunde. Mittheilungen, 1888. The Society. 



Naturforschender Verein. Verhandlungen, XXVI. Bericht der Meteorolo- 



gischen Commission, 1886. The Society. 



Bruxelles. Academie Royale des Sciences des Lettres et des Beaux-Arts de Bel- 



gique. Memoires Couronnes. 4to. XLIX. Memoires Couronnes. 8vo. 



XL, XLI, XLII. Bulletin, 58me Annee 10-12; 59me Annee, 3e Ser. T. 



XVII, 1-8. The Academy. 



Societe Royale de Botanique. Bulletin, Tomes. 26, I ; 27. The Society. 



Societe Entomologique de Belgique. Compte-Rendu, 99-117. 



The Society. 

 Societe Beige de Geographic Bulletin, 1888, 4-6 ; 1889, No. 1, 2. 



The Society. 



Societe Malacologique. Annates, XXII. Proces-Verbaux, 1888. T. XVII, 



1_44, 53-72. ' The Society. 



Societe Beige de Microscopic Bulletin, XIV, 10 ; XV, 1, 10. The Society. 



Budapest. M. Tudomanyos Akademia. Almanach, 1888, 1889. Ertekezesek a 



mathematikai Tudomanvok Korebol, IX, 1-13, XIII, 3. 8, 14, XIV, 1 ; 



XVI, 7; XVII, 2-6; XVIII, 1-5. Ertesitoje XVII, XVIII, XX, XXII, 



1-6; XXIII, 1. Evkonyvei I; IX, a, b, 1,2, 4, 6; XIII, 1-10; XIV, 



1-7; XV, 1-5; XVI, 1-8; XVII, 1-6. Mathematikai es Termeszettu- 



rlomanyi Ertesiio. I, II, V, 6-9; VI, 1-9; VII, 1,2. Mathematikai es 



Terme«zettudomanyi Kozleinenyek vonatkozolog a hazai Viszonyokra, XX, 



2- c ; XXI, 1 ; XXII, 1 -8; XXXIII, 1-3. Osztaly anak kulon Kiadvanya, 



1887, 1. The Academy. 



Ungarische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathematische und naturwissen- 



sdiaftliche Benchte aus Ungarn, V, VI. The Academy, 



Ungarisches National Museum. Termeszetrajzi Fiizetek, XI, 3, 4; XII, 



\. 3. The Director. 



Buenos Aires. Instituto Geografico Argentino. Boletin, X, 8, 9. 



Museo publico de Buenos Aires. Anales, 13, 15, The Director. 



Sociedad Cientifica Argentina. Anales, VI, 3, 4; VII, 1—4, 6, 38, 39; 



XXII, 2. 3; XXVI, 1—6; XXVII, 2—6 ; XXVIII, 1, 2. The Society. 



Sociedad Geografica Argentina. Revista, VI, 61 — 68. The Society. 



Buffalo Historical Society. Annual Report, 1889. The Society. 



Caen. Aca'lemie nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Memoirs 



1887-88. The Academy. 



Societe Linneenne de Normandic Bulletin, 4e Ser. II. The Society. 



Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. Journal, LVI, Part II, No^. 2, 3, 5 ; LVTI, 



Part II, No. 4. Proceedings, 1888 No. 4—10. The Society. 



Stray Feathers, XI, 1 — 4. L V. Williamson Fund. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Cambridge. Appalachian Mountain Club. Appalachia, V, b\ 4. The Society. 



Harvard University. Library Bulletin No. 42 — 44. The Trustees. 



Museum of Comparative Zoology. Bulletin XVI, 3—5 ; XVII, 3, 4 ; XVIII. 



Memoirs, XIV, 1 ; Part II, 1 ; XVI, 2. Report 1887-88. The Director. 



Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology. 22nd report. 



The Trustees. 

 Cambridge, Eng'd. University. Studies from the Morphological Laboratory. 

 IV, 1, 2, 3. The University. 



Canada. Royal Society. Proceedings and Transactions, Vol. VI. 



The Society, 

 Cape Town. South African Museum. Report of the Trustees. 1888. 



The Director. 

 Cap Rouge. Le Naturaliste Canadien, XVIII, 5 — 12; XIX, 1 — 4. 



The Editor. 

 Cardiff. Cardiff Naturalists' Society. Report and Transactions, XX, 2. 



The Society. 



Cassel. Botanisches Centralblatt, XXXVI, 6; XL, 8. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geognostische Jahreshefte. 1888. Jahr., I. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Malakozoologische Blatter, N. F., Bd. XI. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein fur Naturkunde. Berichte. 34, 35. The Society. 



Catania. Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali in Catania. Bullettino mensile. 



N. S. Dec, 1888, 1889, III, 4-8. The Academy. 



Chicago. Public Library. Seventeenth annual report. The Librarian. 



Christiania. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab, XIII, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Nonvegische Meteorologische Institut. Tarhbuck, 188fi. The Institute. 



Skandinaviske Naturforskeres. Forhancllingar, 3Ue Mode, 1886. 

 Videnskab Selskab. Forhandlinser, 1883, 1887, 1888, 1-13. The Society. 

 Chur. Naturforschende Gesellschaft Graubiindens. Jahresbericht, XXXII. 



The Society. 

 Cincinnati. Society of Natural History. Journal, XI, 4 ; XII, 1-3. 



The Society. 

 Columbus. Ohio Meteorological Bureau. Report for Oct., Nov., 1888; Oct- 

 Nov., 1889. The Society. 



Copenhagen. Botaniske Forening. Botanisk Tidskrift, XVII, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 E. Museo Lundii. En Samling af Afhandlingar, B. 1. The Director. 



Naturhistoriske Forening. Videnskabelige Meddelelser, 1888. The Society. 

 K. Nordisde Ohlskrift-Selskab. Antiquarisk Tidsskrift, 1843-51. Memoires, 



1840-45, 18s8. 

 K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab. Ofversigt, 1888, No. 3; 1889, No. 1, 2. 

 Skrifter, 6te Raekke, IV, 8. The Society. 



Cordoba. Academia nacional de Ciencias exactas. Bulletin, XI, 2, 3. 



The Academy. 

 Cracovie. Bulletin Internationale de l'Academie des Sciences. Comptes Rendus 

 des Seances de l'Annee 1889 No. 1 — 6. The Academy. 



Crawfordsville. Botanical Gazette, XIII, 12; XIV, 1—10. The Editor. 



Danzig. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Schriften. VII, 2. The Society. 



Darmstadt. Verein fiir Erdkunde. Notizblatt, IV, 9. The Society. 



Davenport. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, V, 1. The Academy. 

 Denver. Colorado Scientific Society. Proceedings, III, 1. The Society. 



Dijon. Academie des Sciences, Artset Belles Lettres. Memoires, 1852-54, 1SS7. 



The Academy. 

 Dorpat. Dorpater Naturforscher Gesellschaft. Archiv fiir die Naturkunde Liv 

 -Ehst-und Kurlands, le Ser. IX, 5. Sitzungsberichte, Bd. II; VIII, 3. 



The Society. 

 Dresden. Hedwigia Organ, fiir Kryptogamenkur.de, XXVIII, 1 — 5. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 




472 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



K. Leop.-Carol.-Deutsche Akademie der Natnrforscher. Nova Acta, 52. 



Leopoldina, 24 H. The Academy. 



K. Mineralogisch-geologisches unci praTiistorisches Museum. Mittheilun- 



gen, II. 8. The Director. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Isis. Sitzungsbericht und Abhandlun- 



gen, Juli— Dec. 1888 ; Jan. June 1889. The Society. 



Verein fur Eidkunde. Festschrift zur Jubelfeier des Achthundertjahrigen 



Herrschaft des Hauses Wettin. Festschriftz ur Jubelfeier des 25 jahrigen 



Bestehens, 1888. The Society. 



Dublin. Royal Dublin Academy. Proceedings, VI, 3 — 6. Transactions IV, 



2 — 5. The Society. 



Roval Irish Academy. Proceedings, Sen III, Vol. I, I. Transactions, 



XXIX, 3—11. The Academy. 



Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Proceedings, XVII, 2. Annual Reports, I, 



VI-VIII, 1870-72. The Society. 



Geological Society. Transactions, V, 4. 



Royal Physical Society. Proceedings, 1887-88. The Society. 



Emden. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. jahresberichte, 72, 73. The Society. 

 Erlangen. Biologisch.es Centralblatt, VIII, 18-24 ; IX, 1-18. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Physikalisch-medicinische Societat. Sitzungsberichte, 1889. The Society. 



Florence. Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale. Bollettino, 1888, 1889. The Director. 



Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano, Camel, XXI, 1-4. The Editor. 



Societa Italiana di Antropologia, Etnologia e Psicologia comparata. Archivio, 



XVIII, 1-3; XIX, 1,2. ' The Editor. 



Societa Entomologica Italiana. Bollettino, 1889, No. 1-4. The Society. 



France. Association Francaise pour l'Avancement des Sciences. Comptes Ren- 



dus, 1887, I, II ; 188S, I, II. The Society. 



Frankfurt a/M. Aerztlicher Verein. Jahresbericht, XXIX-XXXII. 



The Society. 

 Frankfurter Verein fiir Geographie und Statistik. Beitrage zur Statistik, V, 

 3, 4. Jahresberichte, LI. LI I. Civilstand der Stadt Frankfurt a/M, Sta- 

 tische Mittheilungen, 1888. The Society. 



Deutsche Malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Jahrbiicher, 1889, No. 1-10. 

 Physikalischer Verein. Jahresbericht, 1886-87. 

 Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Monatliche Mittheilungen, VI, 6; VII, 5. 



The Society. 

 Societatum Litterae, 1888 No. 8, 1889, 10; 1889, No. 1-10. The Editor. 

 Freiburg, i. B. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Benchte, III, IV, 1-5. 



The Society. 



Gand. Archives de Biologie. IX, 1, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geneva. Club Alpin Suisse. Sections Romandes. L'Echo des Alpes, 1888, No. 



4; 1889, No. 1,2. The Society. 



Recueil Zoologique Suisse, V, 1, I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Socieie de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. Memoires, XXX, 1. Rapport 



pour les annees, 1860-63, 1865-68, 1872-74, 1876-78, 1880-82, 1884. 



Miss Frances Lea. 

 Genoa. Museo civico di Storia Naturale. Annale, XXIII-XXVI. 



The Director. 

 Societa di Letture e Conversazione Scientifiche di Ateneo Ligure. Rassegna 

 Mensile, Anno., XII ; 1889, April-Oct. Giornale, XI, 9-12. 



The Society. 

 Gera. Gesellschaft von Freunden der Naturwissenschaften und des Naturwissen- 

 schaftlichen Kranzchens in Schleiz. Jahresbericht, XVIII-XXXI. 



The Society. 

 Giessen. ( tberhessische Gesellschaft fiir Natur und Heilkunde. Berichte, 2(5. 



The Society. 

 Glasgow. Geological Society. Transactions, VIII, 2. The Society. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



Natural History Society. Proceedings, II, 1. The Society. 



Philosophical Society. Proceedings, XIX. The Society. 



Gorlitz. Oberlausitzische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Neues lausitzisches 



Magazin, XLV, 1 ; LXIV, 2. The Society. 



Gotha. Dr. A. Petermann's Mittheilungen aus Justus Perthes' geographischer 



Anstalt. Inhaltsverzeichnis, 1888, No. 12; 1889, No. 1-10 Lrganzungs- 



heft, 92-95. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Granville, Ohio. Denison University. Bulletin of the Scientific Laboratories, 



IV, 1, 2. The Trustees. 



s'Gravenhage. De Nederlandsche Entomologische Vereeniging. Tijdschrift voor 



Entomologie. XXX, 2-4; XXXI, 1-4. The Society. 



Graz. Naturwissenschafilicher Verein fur Steiermark. Mittheilungen, 1888. 



Verein der Arzte in Steiermark. Mittheilungen, Yereinsjahr, 1888. 



The Society. 

 Zoologisches Instilut. Arbeiten, II, 4. The Society. 



Great Yarmouth. Free Library. 3rd annual report. The Directors. 



Groningen. Natuurkunig Genootschap. Vijsentachtigste Verslag, 1888. 



The Society. 



Gueiet. Societe des Sciences Naturelles et Archeologiques de la Creuse. 



Memoires II— V, 1— 3; 2me Ser. I, II. Bulletin, Tome II, 1—3; III, 



1_3 ; IV, 1,2. The Society. 



Giistrow. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg. Archiv, 



XLII. The Society. 



Halifax. Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnic Society. Proceedings n. s. 



X, XI, 1. The Society. 



Halle, Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XVII, 1, 2. Benefit, 1887. 



The Society. 

 Halle a/s. Yerein fiir Erdkunde. Mittheilungen, 1888. The Society. 



Zeitschrift fiir Natunvis-enschaften, LXI, 1 — 6 ; LXII, 2. The Editor. 



Hamburg. Geographische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 1887-88, 2. 



Hamburgische wnsenschaftliche Anstalt. Jahrbuch,I — IV. The Society. 

 Harlem. Musee Teyler. Archives, III, 3. The Director. 



Societe Hollandaise des Sciences. Archives, XXIII, 1 — 5. The Society. 

 Heidelberg. Naturhistorisch-medicinischer Yerein. Yerhandlungen, IV, 2, 3. 



The Society. 

 Helsingfors. Finska Vetenskaps-Societeten. Ofversigt, XXX. Acta, XVI. 

 Bidrag, Nos. 7—10. 

 Sallskapet pro Fauna et Flora Fennica. Acta, IV. Meddelanden, 14. 



The Society. 



Hermannstadt. Siebenbiirgischer Yerein fiir Naturwissenschaften. Verhandlun- 



gen and Mittheilungen, III, IV, XXXIV— XXXVI, XXXVIII. 



Verein fiir siebenburgische Landeskunde. Archiv, nene Folge, XX, 1, 2,3; 



XXII. 1,2. Jahresbericht 1884— 1888. The Society. 



Innsbruck. Ferdinandeum. Zeitschrift, III, 5 — 8, 10, 13 — 15, 28 — 32. 



The Director. 



Iowa City. State Historical Society. Iowa Historical Record, 1888, October; 



1889, Jan.-July. The Society. 



Jena. Anatomischer Anzeiger, III, 27; IV, 29. The Editor. 



Centralblatt fiir Bakteriology und Parasitenkunde, IV, 20; VI, 21. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Medicinisch-naturwissenshaftliche Gesellshaft. Zeitschrift, XXIII, 1-4. 



The Society. 



Zoologische Jahrbiicher, III, 3, 4. Abtheilung f. Systematik, etc., Ill, 3 ; IV, 



1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kansas City. The Naturalist, IV, 4. The Editor. 



Kiel. Mineralogisches Institut der Universitat Kiel. Mittheilungen, I, 1. 



I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Schriften, VII, 2. The Society. 




4i 4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Universitat. Chronik, 1888-1889, The University. 



Klagenfurt. Landesmuseum von Karnten. Carinthia, 1888, No. 11, 1889; No. 12. 



Tlie Director. 

 Kolozsvart. Erdelyi Museum-Egylet. Orvus Termeszettudomanyi Ertesito, 1888, 

 XII E of I, 1-3; II, 1-3; III, 1, 2; XIV, I, 1; II, 1, 2; III, 1, 2. 



The Director. 



Lausanne. Musee d'Histoire Naturelle. Rapports annuels des Conservateurs, 



18S8. The Director. 



Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, V. 38, 39, 40, 97, 98. 



Tides and Index to XI, XII, XIII, XVI. The Society. 



Leeds. Philosophical and Literary Society. Annual Reports, 1S88-89. 



The Society. 

 Leipzig. Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physiologic Anatomische Abtheilung, 1889, 

 No. 1-4. Physiologische Abtheilung, 1889, No. 1-4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Botanische JahrbUcher, X, 4; XI, 1, 3; XII, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Jahresberichte iiber die Fortschritte der Anatomie nd Physiologie, XVI, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal fiir Ornithologie, XXXVI, 2 ; XXXVII, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Morphologisches Jahrbuch, XIV, 3 ; XVI, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



K. Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen, II, IX, 1 ; 



X, 9; XIV, 10-13; XV, 1-6. Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen, 1889, 1. 



The Society. 

 Verein fiir Erdkunde. Mittheilungen, 1888. 

 Zeitschnft fiir Krystallographie und Mineralogie XV, 1 — 6; XVII, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie, XLVII, 3, — XLVII, 2. Namen 



und Sachregister, 31 — 45. 

 Zoologischer Anzeiger, No. 293—320. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Leyden. Leyden Museum Notes, X, 1 — 4; XI, 1,2. The Director. 



Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging. Tijdschrift, Deel II, 3. 



The Society. 



Lille. Bulletin Scientifique de Department du Nord, 1880-83- The Editor. 



Societe Geologique du Nord. Annales, XV. The Society. 



Lisbon. Academia Real das Sciencias. Jornal de Sciences Mathematicas, &c. 



Memorias I, 1 ; III, 2, IV-VI. The Academy. 



Associapao dos Engenheiros Civis Portuguezes. Revista de Obras publicas e 



Minas. XIX, 227-230; XX, 231-234. The Society. 



Livierpool. Free Public Library, Museum and Walker Art Gallery. 36th Report. 



The Director. 



Geological Society. Proceedings VI, 1. The Society. 



Liverpool Biological Society. Proceedings I— III. The Society. 



Naturalists' Field Club. Proceedings, 1866-7, 1869-70, 1871-72, 1875-6, 



1881-2,1888. The Society. 



London. Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 6th Ser., Nos. 12-23. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Anthropological Institute. Journal, XVIII, 3, 4 ; XIX, I. The Society. 



British Association for the Advancement of Science. 58th Report. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Chemical Society. Abstracts of the Proceedings, No. 58-72. Journal, 313- 

 324; Supp'l, Title and Indexes. The Society. 



Curtis' Botanical Magazine, No's 1222-1233. I- V. Williamson Fund. 



The Electrician. No's 548-601. The Editor. 



Entomological Society. Transactions, 18S8, 3-5 ; 1889, 1-3. The Society. 

 The " Entomologist." Vol. XXII, No. 308-31S I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gardener's Chronicle, No's 99-152. The Editor. 



Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, X, 12 ; XI, 11. The Society. 

 Geological Magazine, No's 294-305. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Geological Society. Quarterly Journal, No. 177-179. The Society. 



Geologists' Association. Proceedings X, 8; XI, 1-4. The Society. 



Grevillea, a monthly record of Crvptogamic Botany and its literature, XVI, 

 82; XVIII, 85. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hardwicke's Science Gossip, No. 288-299. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Royal Horticultural Society Journal, X ; XI, 1, 2. The Society. 



Ibis, 6th Sei. I, 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Royal Institution of Great Britain. Proceedings, XII, 2; List 1888. 



The Society. 

 Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, XXI, 2; XXIV, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Botany, British and Foreign, No. 312-323. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Physiology IX, 5, 6 ; X, 1-6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Knowledge XII, 38-49. The Editor. 



Linnean Society. Journal, Botany 156, 157, 163-170, 173; Zoology, 1 19— 



121, 132, 140. Index to Journal (Botany), 183S-1886. List 



1888-89. Transactions, Zoology II, 18; IV, 3; V, 1-3; Botany II, 16. 



The Society. 

 London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine, No. 163-174. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Royal Microscopical Society. Journal, 1888 Part 6a, 1889, 1-4. 



The Society. 

 Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical Magazine 

 and Journal VIII, 38-40. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



The Naturalist, No. 161-172. The Editor. 



Nature, No. 994-1047. The Editor. 



Paleontological Society. Publications, XLII. Wilson Fund. 



Physical Society. Proceedings, X, 1, 2. The Society. 



Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, No. 115-118. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Queckett Microscopical Club. Journal, III, 23-25. The Society. 



Royal Society. Philosophical Transactions, Vol. 179a, 179b. Proceedings 

 No. 272-283. List, 30th Nov., 1888. The Society. 



Society of Arts. Journal, Vol. 36. The Society. 



Society of Science, Letters and Arts. Transactions, Apr., 1887-Sept., 1888. 



The Society. 

 Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record, 240-245. The Publishers. 

 Zoological Record for 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund- 



Zoological Society. Proceedings, 1889, 1-4. Transactions, XII, 8, 9. 



The Society. 



Zoologist, No. 144-155. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



London, Can. Canadian Entomologist, XX, 12 ; XXI, 11. The Editor. 



Louvain. Universite Catholique. Annuaire, 53. 17 Theses. The University. 



Liibeck. Naturhistorisches Museum. Jahresbericht, 1888. The Director. 



Lund. University, Acta, 1887-88. The University. 



Lyon. Societe d' Agriculture, Histoire Naturelle et Arts utiles Annales, IX, X, 



Ser. VI, I, 1886-88. The Society. 



Societe Linneenne. Annals, 32-34. The Society. 



Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts, Memoires, Classe des Sciences, 



28, 29. The Academy. 



Madison. State Historical Society of Wisconsin. Proceedings, 36. 



The Society. 



Madrid. Real Academia de Ciencies exactas, fisicas y naturales. Anuario, 1889. 



Memorias, XXIII, 2, 3- The Academy. 



Observatorio. Resumen de las Observaciones 1884-1887. The Director. 



Sociedad Geografica. Boletin XII. 3; XVIT, 3; XX, 1; XXII, 1, 2; 



XXIII, 1-6 ; XXV, 3, 4 ; XXVI, 3-6. The Society. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Magdeburg. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Jahresbericht und Abhandlungen, 

 1887. The Society. 



Manchester. G3ological Society. Transactions, XX, 1-3, 5-10. The Society. 

 Liteiary and Philosophical Society. Memoirs, XI, XII; 4th Ser. I, III. 



The Society. 



Microscopical Society. Annual Report, 1883-1888. The Society. 



Scientific Students' Association. Annual Report, 1888. The Society. 



Manhattan, Kansas. Journal of Mycology, IV, 9-12. The Editor. 



Mannheim. Mannheimer Verein fur Naturkunde. Jahresberichte, 18S5-88. 



The Society. 



Marburg. Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der gesammten Naturwissenschaften. 



Sitzungsherichte, 1888. Schriften, XII, 3. The Society. 



Melbourne. Royal Society of Victoria. Transactions and Proceedings, XXII- 



XXIV, 2 ; N. S. I.' The Society. 



Mendon, III. American Antiquarian, XI, 1-5. The Editor. 



Meriden. Scientific Association. Transactions, III. The Society. 



Metz. Academic Memoires, 1858-1870 ; 1885-86. The Academy. 



Mexico. Observatorio Meteorologico-Magnetico Central de Mexico. Boletin 



Mensual I, 8-12 and Supplement. The Director. 



Sociedad Cientifica " Antonio Alzate." Resena sobre el establiscimento, 



11,4-12. The Society. 



Sociedad de Geografia y Estadistica. Boletin, 4a Ep., I, 3, 4. The Society. 



Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural. La Naturaliza, I, 5; V, 9, 10; 



VII, 2-4, 24. The Society. 



Meyringen. Oberlandische Nachrichten, I, 1889, No. 1-8. The Editor. 



Middletown. Wesleyan University, Museum. 18th annual Report. 



The Director. 



Milan. R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Letture. Rendiconti, XX, 17; XXI, 



18-20; XXII, 1, 3-16. The Society. 



Regio Istituto technico superiore. Programma, 1888-89. The Director. 



Milwaukee. Natural History Society of Wisconsin. Proceedings, 1888, pp. 



191-231. 



Public Museum. Seventh annual Report, The Director. 



Minneapolis. The American Geologist, II, 6 ; IV, 5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Modena. R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Memorie, Ser. II, Vols. 



V, VI. The Academy. 



Societa dei Naturalisti. Memorie, Ser. 3e, VII, 1,2; VIII, 1, 2. 



The Society. 



Montpellier. Academie des Sciences et Lettres. Memoires de la Section des 



Sciences, IV. The Society. 



Montreal. Canadian Record of Science, III, 5-7. The Editor. 



Moscow. Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1888, III ; Beilage. 



Nouveaux Memoires, II. The Society. 



Munchen. K. B Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, Mathem.-phy- 



sikalische Classe, 1863, I, 3; 1864, II, 2 ; 1865, 2-4; 1888, 1, 2. 



The Academy. 

 Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte. Beitrage zur 

 Anthropologic und Urgeschichte Bayerns, VIII, 3, 4. The Society. 



Zeitschrift fiir Biologie von L. Buhl, XXV, XXVI, 3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Deulscher und Oesterreichischer Alpenverein. Mittheilungen, 1888, 1 — 19. 



The Society. 

 Minister. Westfalischer Provinzial Verein fiir Wissenschaft und Kunst. Jahres- 

 bericht, 16. The Society. 

 Nancy. Societe des Sciences. Bulletin, Serie II, T, III, 21, 22. The Society. 

 Naples. R. Accademia delle Scienze fisiche e matematiche. Atti, Ser. 2nd I, 

 II. Rendiconto, 2e Ser. Anno XXVI, 1 ; XXVII, 12. The Society. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



Societa dei Naturalist! in Napoli. Bollettino. II, 12; III, 1. The Society. 

 Zoologische Station zu Neapel. Zoologischer Jahresbericht, 1887. 



The Director. 

 Neuchatel. Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, XVI. The Society. 



Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham and 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Transactions, X, 1. The Society. 



New Haven. The American Journal of Science, No's 216-227. The Editor. 



Yale University. Catalogue, 1888-S9. Report, 1888. The Trustees. 



Newtonville, Mass. Contributions to Science, Maynard I, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



New York. Academy of Sciences. Annals, IV, 10, 11. Transactions, VIII, 



1-8. The Academy. 



The American Garden, IX, 12-X, 11. The Editor. 



American Geographical Society. Bulletin, XX, 4; Suppl., XXI. 1, 2, 3. 



The Society. 

 American Museum of Natural History. Annual Reports, 1888-89. Bulletin 

 II, 2, 3, pp. 49-196. The Director. 



The Auk, 1889, VI, 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Central Park Menagerie. 1st Report. The Director. 



Cooperative Index to Periodicals, IV, 4. The Editor. 



Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art. 30th Annual Re- 

 port. The Director. 

 Forest and Stream, XXXI, 19— XXXIII, 19. The Editor. 

 Garden and Forest, I, 40-43. The Editor. 

 Library Journal, XIII, 11-XIV, 11. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Linnean Society. Abstracts of the Proceedings, 1888-89, The Society. 

 Literary News, X, 1-12. The Editor. 

 Mercantile Library Association. 68th Annual Report. Bulletin, No. 11. 



The Librarian. 



New Publications, 1889. Vol. 1, 1, 2. The Editor. 



New York Medical Journal, XLVIII, 22-L, 22. The Editor. 



New York Microscopical Society. Journal, V, 1-4. The Society. 



Popular Science Monthly, 1889, Jan'.-Dec. The Editor. 



Science, No's. 304-3o6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



State Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 11th Annual Meeting, 



1889. The Society. 



Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, XV, 12-XVI, 11. The Society. 



Memoirs, I, 2. Thomas Meehan. 



Osnabriick. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. 7er Tahresbericht. The Editor. 



Ottawa. Field Naturalists' Club. Ottawa Naturalist, II, 8-12; 111,1,2. 



The Society. 



Oxford. Annals of Botany, II, 8, III, 9-11. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Padova. R. Accademia di Scienze Lettere ed Arti. Atti e Memorie, Nuova 



Serie I— III. The Academy. 



Societa Veneto — Trentina di Scienze Naturali. Atti, N. S. IV. Bollettino 



I, 1-5 ; II, 1-4 ; III, 1-4 ; IV, 2, 3 ; X, 2. The Society. 



Palermo. II Naturalista Sicilia.no, VIII, 1-12. The Editor. 



Paris. Annales des Mines, XIV, 4 ; XV, 3. Minister of Public Works, France. 



Annales des Sciences Geologiques, XX, 3, 4. The Editor. 



Annales des Sciences Naturalles. 7me Serie Botanique, VIII, 4-X, 3; 



Zoologique, VI, 4-VII, 6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Archives de Zoologie experimentale et generale, VI, 1-VII, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ecole polytechnique. Journal, No. 58. The Director. 



Journal de Conchyliogie, XXVIII, 1-4. The Editors. 



Journal de Micrographie, 1888, No. 15-17 ; 1889, No. 1-9, 11-16. 



The Editor. 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Museum d'Historie Naturelle. Nouvelles Archives, VIII, 2; IX, 1. 



The Director. 

 Le Naturaliste, 14e An. No. 42-65. '1 he Editor. 



La Nature, I7e An. Nos. 809-859. I. V, Williamson Fund. 



Revue d'Ethnographie, VI, 4, 5 ; VII, 1, 2; VIII, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Revue generale de Botanique, I, 1-10. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Revue Scientihque, XLII, 20-XLIV, 19. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Societe d'Acclimatation. Bulletin, 1887, Nos. 3, 4, 12; 1888, Nos. 1, 3, 5, 6, 



23, 24; 1889, No. 1. Revue des Sciences naturelles appliquees (Bulletin 



bimensual) 1889, No. 1-22. The Society. 



Societe Nationale d' Agriculture de France. Bulletin, 1887, No. 11 ; 1888, 



Nos. 8-11 ; 1889, Nos. 1-7. Table des Matieres, Tome 132. 



The Society. 

 Societe d' Anthropologic Bulletin, XI, 1— XII, 1, 2. The Society. 



Societe des Aniiquaires de Picardie. Bulletins, XVI, 1886-88. The Society. 

 Societe de Biologic Compte Rendu des Seances, 1884, No. 5; 1885, No. 

 31 ; 1888, 35-40; V, 4, 1889, No. 1-34. The Society. 



Societe Entomologique de France. Annales, VIII, 1-4. The Society. 



Societe d'Ethnographie. Bulletin, 1888-89, Nos. 17-32. 



Mr. Stewart Culin. 

 Societe Francaise de Mineralogic Bulletin, XI, 7, 8; XII, 1-7. 



The Society. 



Societe Geologique de France. Bulletin, VIII, 7; XV, 9; XVI, 5-10; 



XVII, 1-6. The Society. 



Societe Malacologique de France. Bulletins, V. The Society. 



Societe Philomathique. Bulletin, 7me Ser. I, 1, 2. XII, 4; Compterendu 



sommaire des seances 1889, No. 1-12; Oct. 26th, Nov. 9th. Memoires 



Centenaire, 1788-1888. The Society. 



Societe Zoolojjique. Bulletin, XIII, 7-10; XIV, 1-6. Memoires, I, 2. 



The Society. 

 Penzance. Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. Transactions, XI, 3. 



The Society. 



Perth. Scottish Naturalist, New Series, 1889, 23-26. The Editor. 



Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, 1888 No. 3 1889, 



No. 2. The Publication Committee. 



American Entomological Society. Transactions, XVI, 2, 3. The Society. 



American journal of the Medical Sciences, 1889, Jan.-Nov. The Editor. 



American Journal of Pharmacy, Dec. 1888-Nov. 1889. The Editor. 



American Naturalist, 1889, November and December; 1889, Jan.-May. July. 



The Editor. 

 American Notes and Queries, III, 2. The Editor. 



American Philosophical Society. Proceedings, No. 129. The Society. 



Franklin Institute. Journal, Nos. 75H-767. The Society. 



College of Pharmacy. Alumni Association, 25th Annual Report. 



The Society. 



Dental Cosmos, XXX, 12-XXXI, 11. The Editor. 



Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania Magazine of History and 



Biology, XII, 4--XIII, 3. The Society. 



Journal of Comparative Medicine and Surgery, X, 1-4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 The Medical News, 1889, No. 872. The Editor. 



Medical and Surgical Reporter, L1X, 22-LXI, 21. The Editor. 



Microscopic Bulletin. Feb.-Dec, 1889. The Editor. 



Naturalists' Leisure Hour. 1889, Jan., March, April, August, November and 

 December. The Editor. 



The Nautilus, Vol. Ill, 1. The Editors. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



Pennsylvania Forestry Associaiion. Forest Leaves, II, 2. The Society. 



Polyclinic, VI, 6. The Editor. 



Zoological Society. 17th Annual Report. The Society. 



Pisa. Societa Malacologica Italiana. Bullettino, XIII, pp. 209-251 ; XIV, pp. 



1-150. The Society. 



Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturali. Atti. Processi Verbali I, Index; 1884 



p. 113 124; IV, 147-165; V, 57-76 ; VI, p 141-186, 189-252 Memorie 



IX. The Society. 



Portland. Society of Natural History. Proceedings, Session 1880-81. 9th and 



10th; 1881-82, 10th; 1888-89, 9th. The Society, 



Prag. K. B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, 1888. Jahres- 



bericht, 15 Jan., 1888. Abhandlungen, 7e Folge, II. The Society. 



Lotos Verein. Jahrbuch fiir Naturwissenschaften, 1852-1868, 1870-1875, 



1880, 1882, 1883, 1885, 1888, 1889. The Society. 



Princeton. Princeton College Bulletin, I, ] . The Editor. 



Quebec. Literary and Historical Society. Transactions, Sessions 1887, 1889, 



No. 19. The Society. 



Raleigh. Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society. Journal, VI, 1, 2. The Society. 



Regeiisberg. K. B. botanische Gesellschaft. Flora, XLVII, 1,2. 3; Jahr. 46. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Riga. Naturforscher Verein. Correspondenzblatt, XXXI. The Society. 



Rio de Janeiro. Observatoire Imperial. Bulletin Astronomique et Meteorologi- 



que. Revista, 1889 No. 1-12. The Director. 



Riverside, Cal. The Old Curiosity Shop, Vol. VIII, 11. The Editor. 



Rome. R. Accademia dei Lincei. Atti., Ser. 2, IV, 6-12 and Index ; V, 1-10, 



12; VI, 5; 2 Semestre 1-$. The Academy. 



Archives Italiennes de Biologie, X, 3 ; XI, 1-3 ; XII, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale Vittorio Emanuele di Roma. Bollettino, 1889. 



The Librarian. 

 Societa Geografica Italiana. Bollettino, Ser. Ill, Vol. I, 10-12; II, 1-9. 



The Society. 



Societa degli Spettroscopisti Italiani. Memorie, XVII, 10, 12; XVIII, 1-5, 



7-10. The Society. 



St. Anthony Park. University of Minnesota. Experiment Station of the College 



of Agriculture. Bulletin, Nos. 5-8. The Director. 



St. Gallen. St. Gallische naturwissenschaflliche Gesellschaft. Bericht, 1886-87. 



The Society. 

 Saint John. Natural History Society of New Brunswick. Bulletin, No. 8. 



The Society. 

 St. Louis. Academy of Sciences. Transactions, V, 1, 2. The Academy. 



Public Library. Annual Report, 1887-88. The Librarian. 



St. Petersburg. Academie Imperialedes Sciences. Memoires, XXX, 3-10. Bul- 

 letin, XXVIII, 3-XXXII, 1. The Academy. 

 Hortus Universitatis Imperialis Petropolilana?. Scripta Botanica, II, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Imp. russkoye geographitcheskoye Obshtchestvo. Izviestiya, XXIV, 3- 



XXV, 3. The Society. 



Physikalische S. Central Observatorium. Annalen, 1887, 1, II. The Director. 



Societas Entomologica Rossica. Horae--XXII. The Society. 



Salem, Essex Institute. Bulletin, XX, 1 ; XXI, 6. The Society. 



San Diego. West American Scientist, VI, 45, 48. The Editor. 



San Francisco. California Academy of Sciences. Proceedings, 2nd Ser. I, 1, 2. 



Memoirs, II, 2. The Society. 



Florist and Gardener, I, 7. The Editor. 



Free Public Library. Annual Report, June 30th, 1889. The Librarian. 



Mercantile Library Association. 36th Annual Report. The Librarian. 



San Jose. Museo Nacionale Republica de Costa Rica. Anales, 1887, Pans 1, 2. 



The Director. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Santiago. Wissenschaftlicher Verein. Verhandlungen, 6 H. Tlie Society. 



Scranton. Lackawanna Institute of History and Science. Proceedings and Col- 

 lections, I. Chas. E. Smith. 

 Shanghai. Royal Asiatic Society, China Branch. Journal, Vol, XXIII, 2. 



Miss A. M. Fielde. 



Siena. R. Accademia dei Fisiocritici. Atti. Ser. IV, Vol. I, 1-7. Sezione dei 



cultori delle Scienze Medici. Bollettino, VI, 8-10. The Academy. 



Springfield. Illinois Industrial University. 14th Report. The Director. 



Stettin. Entomologischer Verein. Entomologischer Zeitung, XXVI, XXVII, 



XLVI. The Society. 



Stockholm. Biologiska Foreningens. Forhandlingar, Bd. I, 1-8. The Society. 



Entomologisk Tidskrift, IX, 1-4. The Editor. 



Geologiska Forening. Forhandlingar, X, 6, 7 ; XI, 1-5. The Society. 



K. Vetenskaps Akademien. Bihang till K. S. V. A. Handlingar XIV, 1-4. 



Ofersigt, 1889, No. 1-10. The Society. 



K. Vitterhets Historie och Antiquitets Akademien. Monadsblad, 1887. 



The Academy. 



Svenska Sallskabet for Anthropologi och Geografi. Ymer Tidskrift, 1888, 



No. 1-6. The Society. 



Strassburg. Naturhistorisches Museum. Bericht, 1836-89. The Director. 



Stuttgart. Forschungen zur Deutschen Landes und Volkskunde, ITI, 3-5 ; IV, 1. 



" Humboldt," 1889, 1-11. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie und Palaeontologie, 1889, I, 1-3; 



II, 1, 2 ; VI, Beilage Bd. 2 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein fiir vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wiirtemburg, Jahresheft, 45. 



The Society. 

 Switzerland. Schweizer Alpen-Club. Jahrbuch, 24er Jhrg. 1888-89 and Sup- 

 plement. 4 maps in roll. The Society. 

 Schweizerische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, Jahres- 

 versammlung 71. The Society. 

 Sydney. Australian Museum. Report of the Trustees for 1888. The Trustees. 

 Linnean Society of New South Wales. Proceedings, III, 2-4; IV, 1 and 

 List. The Society. 

 Royal Society of New South Wales. Journal and Proceedings, XXII, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Taunton. Somersetshire Archaeological and Natural History Society. Proceed- 

 ings, XXXIV-XXXVIII. The Society. 

 Tokio. Medicinische Facultat der KaiserlichJapanischen Universitat. Mittheilun- 

 gen, I, 2. The University. 

 Sei i Kwai, or Society for the Advancement of Medical Science in Japan, 

 VII, 12; VIII, 5-10. The Society. 



Topeka. Kansas State Historical Society. 6th Report. The Society. 



Washburn Laboratory of Natural History. Bulletin, II, 9. The Director. 



Toronto. Canadian Institute. Annual Report, 1888. Proceedings, VI, 2. 



The Institute. 



Entomological Society. Annual Report, 1888. The Society. 



Toulouse. Academie des Sciences, Inscriptions, et Belles-Lettres. Memoires, X. 



The Academy. 

 Revue Mycologique, Nos. 1-4, 7-21, 23, 24, 26, 27, 30, 31, 37-44. 



The Editor. 



Societe d'Histoire Naturelle. Bulletin, 1888 Jan-Sept., XXII Annee, pp., 



169-207; XCVII-CXI. The Society. 



Trenton. Natural History Society. Journal, II, 1. The Society. 



Trieste. Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali. Bollettino, XL The Society. 



Tromso. Museum. Aarshefter, IV, V, X, XI, XII. Aarsberetning, 18S8. 



The Director. 

 Truro. Royal Institution of Cornwall. Journal, V-XIX, XXI, XXIII. 



The Society. 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



Turin. R. Accademia delle Science. Atti, XXIII. Memorie, Ser. 2a 



XXXVIII. The Academy. 

 Musei di Zoologia ed Anatomia comparata della R. Universita. Bollettino, 



Nos. 49-65. The Director. 



United States. American Association for the Advancement of Science. Proceed- 

 ings, XXXVII. The Society. 

 American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, Vol 36. The Society. 

 Upsal. Observatoire de l'Universite. Bulletin meteorologique, Vol. XX. 



The Director. 

 Skandinavisches Archiv fiir Physiologie, Band I, 1-6. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Utrecht. K. Nederlandsche Meteorologisch Instituut. Jaarbock, 1879 Part, 2 ; 



1888. 1'he Institute. 



Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. Verslag, 



1888. Aanteckeningen, 1888. The Society. 

 Venice. L'Ateneo Veneto. Ser. XIII, Vol. I, 1-4 ; II, 3, 4. The Director. 



Notarisia, Commentarium Phycologicum, I, 13-15 and Index. The Editor. 

 R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettre ed Arti. Atti. V, 10; VI, 1-9. 



The Society. 



Vienna. Embryologische Institute der K. K. Universitat in Wien. Mittheilun- 



gen, 1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, mathematisch-natur- 



wissenschaftliche Classe XCV Bd. I, 1-5 ; II, 3, 5 ; III, 1-5 ; XCVI Bd. 



1.1-5; II 1-5; 111,1-5; XCVII, I, 1-4 ; IIal-7; lib 1-7; 111,1-6; 



1889, 1-18. Denkschriften, 53er, 54er Bd. The Academy. 

 K. k. Central Anstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus. Jahrl .richer, 



XXIV, 1887. The Director. 



K. k. geographische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, XXXI, 1888. 



The Society. 

 K. k. geologische Reichsanstalt. Jahrbuch, XXXIV, 1, 2; XXXVIII, 3,4. 



Verhandlungen, 1888 Nos. 14-18 ; 1889. No. 1-12. The Society. 



K. k. zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, XXXVIII, 3, 4; 



XXXIX, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Mineralogische und petrographische Mittheilungen, X, 4-6. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 K. k. naturhistorisches Hofmuseum. Annalen, III, 3, 4; IV, 1-2 



The Director. 

 Ornis. Internationale Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte Ornitholoyie, V, 1-3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Verein zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse. Schriften 28cr 

 Bd. The Society. 



Wiener illustrirte Garten-Zeitung, 1886 H, 6-12 ; 1889, 11. 



Thomas Meehan. 

 Zoologis-ches Institut. Arbeiten, VIII, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Washington. American Monthly Microscopical Journal, IX, 5-12; X, 1-10. 



The Editor. 

 Anthropological Society of Washington. The American Anthropologist 

 1889, II, 1-4. The Society.' 



National Geographic Society. National Geographic Magazine, Vol. I, 1-4. 



The Society. 

 United States Fish Commission. Bulletin, VII, 8 ; pp 129-400. 



The Commission. 

 United States National Museum. Proceeding, 1888, pp. 129-670. 



The Director. 

 United States' Publications. Monthly Catalogue, IV, 9, 10 ; V f 1-9. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



The Washington Book Chronicle aud Bulletin of Government Publications, 



I> 1- The Editor. 



32 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1889. 



Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Transactions, XXI. The Society. 



White Sulphur Springs, W. Va. The Loon, Vol. I, 2-10. The Editor. 



Wiesbaden. Nassauischer Verein fiir Naturkunde. Jahrbucher, Jahrg., 41, 42. 



The Society. 

 Wilkesbarre. Wyoming Historical and Geological Society. Proceedings, II, ]. 



Angelo Heilprin. 

 Worcester. American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, V, 3; VI, 1. 



The Society. 



Wiirzburg. Botanisches Institut. Arbeiten, III, 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, XXII. Sitzungs- 



berichte, 1888. The Society. 



Zoologisch -zootomisches Institut. Arbeiten, IX, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Yokohama. Asiatic Society of Japan. Transactions, XII, 2, 3. The Society. 



Seismological Society of Japan. Transactions, II, V, VIII, 1. The Society. 



Zwickau. Verein fiir Naturkunde. Jahresbericht, 1888. The Society. 




INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 

 1889. 



Abelmoschus 



Abrus 377, 



Abutilon 



Acacia 131, 375, 



Acalypha 



Acanthaceae 



Acan th aster 



Acanthinula 192, 



Acanthospermum 



Acer 



Acetabul ana 



Achrysones 



Achy ranthes 



Acipenser 



Acipenseridae 



Acrostichum 



Actinse 



Actolitein 



Adiantum 



yElurogale 216, 



Aerope 



Aesculus 



Agave 134, 



Agelaius 



Ageralum 



Aglaia 



Agnatha 277 . 



Agnus 



Aiptasia 102, 104, 



Alismaceae 



Allium 



Aloe 



Alpinia 



Alseonax ,.. 



Alternanthera 



Alvaradoa 



Alysicarpus 



Amaran taceae 



Amarantus 



Amaryllideae 



Amaryllis 



Amblogyna 



Amblystoma 



Ambrosia 



Ammannia 



367 

 379 

 367 

 378 

 4H.5 

 397 

 171 

 200 

 388 



58 

 351 

 26!) 

 4U1 

 247 

 245 

 352 

 1SL 



31 

 3o2 

 229 

 2/7 



63 

 356 

 269 

 387 

 193 

 27S 

 261 

 125 

 357 

 360 

 359 

 353 

 146 

 4((2 

 371 

 377 

 401 

 402 

 355 

 856 

 402 

 155 

 38 S 

 381 



Amnicola 8S, 195, 



Ampelideaa 



Ampelopsis 155, 



Amphicyon....211, 222, 223, 226, 



Amphiura 



Ampyx 



Amygdalese 



Amyris 



Anacardiu m 



Anal cite 



Ananassa 



Anas 



Anatherum 



Anceyia 



Anchistoma 



Andradite 



And ropogon 



Aneimia, 



Anemeae 



Anethum 



Anguispira 



Angustula 194, 



Anhi nga 



Anhydrite 



Annabergite 



Anomcepus 



Anona 131, 



Anonaceae 



Antaceus 248, 250, 254, 



Antennarius 



Anthacanthus 



Antheadae 



Anthenea 



Antigonon 



Antinedia 



Apatura 



Aphelocoma 



Apium 



Apocynaceae 



Apophyllite 



Aquatite , 



Arachis 877, 



Aragonite 



Archselurus...216, 224, 226, 230, 

 Archaster 



267 

 373 

 373 

 232 

 177 

 166 

 379 

 371 

 374 



35 

 354 

 267 

 362 

 191 

 198 



35 

 362 

 352 

 281 

 384 

 199 

 207 

 266 



11 

 184 



32 

 363 

 363 

 256 

 344 

 397 



164 

 178 

 401 

 117 

 269 

 269 

 38 i 

 891 



34 

 184 

 378 



34 

 238 

 175 



(483) 




484 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1889. 



Arcyria 



Ardea 



Ardisia 



Areca 



Argemone 



Argyrod es 



Argytliamnia 



Ariolimax 195, 



Arion 195, 



Arionta 



Ariophanta 



Aroidea; 



Arses 



Artemisia 



Arthrostylidium 361, 



Arti beus 



Artocarpus 



Artomyias 



Asclepiadeae 



Asclepias 



Ascy i u m 



Aspidi um 



Asterias 



Asteri na 



Asterinidge 



Asteroidea 



Asteropsis 



Astralium 



Astropeci en 



Astropectinidas 



Astrophytida; 



Astrophyton 



Astroschema 



Astroscopus.... 259, 261, 263, 264, 



Atalapha 



Auchenia 



Aulactinia 



Avicennia 69, 271, 



Aythya 



Baccharis 



Badiera 



Balsamineae 



Bambusa 129, 



Basella 



Baselleae 



Batis 146, 



Begonia 



Bellerophon 



Bermudia 



Betula 



Beurreria 



Bias 



Bidens 



Bignoniaceae 



Binneya 



Bixinese 



Blechum 



Bletia 



188 

 267 

 390 

 357 

 364 



98 

 405 

 199 

 199 

 193 

 279 

 359 

 153 

 389 

 362 

 315 

 403 

 147 

 392 

 392 

 366 

 352 

 1H9 

 173 

 173 

 169 

 174 

 137 

 174 

 174 

 178 

 178 

 179 

 265 

 324 



31 

 107 

 399 

 267 

 387 

 365 

 370 

 361 

 402 

 402 

 402 



53 

 297 



86 



58 

 394 

 146 

 388 

 397 

 199 

 365 

 397 

 355 



Blighia 373 



Boerhaavia 401 



Bonchea 398 



Borniie 34 



Boraginea; 394 



Borreria i 386 



Borrichia 388 



Bostrichus 268 



Botaurus 267 



Bougainvillia 400 



Boussingaultia 402 



Brachyphylla 319 



Bredemeyera 365 



Brisingidse 171 



Bromelia 354 



Bromeliacece 354 



Brontozoum 32 



Brosimum 403 



Brugmansia 395 



Brunfeisia 396 



Brya 377, 379 



Bryophyllum 379 



Buccinites 306 



Buccinum 306 



Buchnera 396 



Bucida 380 



Bufo 268 



Bulimella 299 



Bulimorpha 300-302 



Bulimulidse 208 



Bulimulus 195, 208 



Bumelia 390 



Bunrelurus 240 



Bunchosia 369 



Bunodes 106 



Bursera 371 



Burseracece 371 



Buteo 268 



Byrsonima 369 



Byssolite 34 



Bythinella 86, 88 



Cacteie 384 



Csecum 142 



Caesalpinia 376, 378 



Cajanus 377, 379 



Cakile 364 



Caladium 359 



Calamine 33 



Calcite 34 



Calidris 268 



Calliandra 375, 378 



Callidryas 268 



Callionymus 260 



Calophyllum 366 



Callopteryx 10 



Can nacea; 353 



Campeloma 195 



Canavalia 377, 379 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



485 



Canella 365 



Canellaceae 865 



Canis 2:22, 233 



Carina 353 



Capparidere 304 



Capraria 396 



Capri foliacere 385 



Capromys 350 



Capsicum 395 



Caracolus 86 



Cardinalis 270 



Carica 382 



Carollia 316 



Carya 58 



Casearia 365 



Cassia 131, 376, 378 



Cassinia 154 



Cassyta 403 



Castanea 58 



Casuarina 404 



Casuarineas., 404 



Catalufa 161 



Catesbaea 385 



Cathartes 268 



Catopsis 354 



Caulerpa 351 



Cedrela 372 



Celastrinea; 372 



Celtidea; 404 



Cenchrus 361 



Centrosema.. 377 



Ceniurio 316 



Ceophloeus 269 



Cercocebus. 31 



Cereus 131, 384 



Cermatia 10 



CestrineEe 396 



Cestrum 396 



Chalcocite 34 



Chalcopyrite 34 



Chalimus.... 95 



Chama 141 



Chamserops 269, 270 



Chanomphalus 84 



Chads 91 



Chasiempis 148 



Chasmops 167 



Chelidornix 149 



Chenopodiea; 402 



Chenopodium 402 



Chilonycteris 331 



Cluococca 386 



Chloanthite 184 



Chloris 361 



Chloropal 35 



Chrysobalanea; 379 



Chrysobalanus 379 



Chrysocolia 34 



Chrysolite 35 



Chrysophyllum 390 



Chusquea 361,362 



Cicca 40.-) 



Cionella "08 



Cissus 373 



Citharexylum 399 



Citrus 131, 370 



Cladium 350 



Clanculus ]3g 



Clathropteris 33 



Clematis 3(33 



Cleome 3(34 



Clerodendron 399 



Clethra 389 



Cliona 70-75 



Cocos J.... 358 



Coccoloba 401 



Ccecilianella 208 



Coffea 38(j 



Colaptes 269, 347 



Coleus 399 



Colocasia , 359 



Coluber.. 268 



Columbigallina 268 



Columbite 51 



Colubrina 373 



Coma richa 188 



Combretacece 380 



Commelyna 360 



Commelynepe 360 



Comocladia 374 



Compositae 131, 387 



Com psothly pi s 2 70 



Condalia 373 



Condylactis 104, JOT, 125 



Coniferre 353 



Conocarpus 380 



Conularia 287 



Conulus 191, 192, 198 



Convolvulacea; 393 



Convolvulus 393 



Corchorus 368, 369 



Cordia 394 



Cordiaceae 394 



Corema 135, 344 



Coronaster 171 



Corticifera 120, 125 



Corvus 269 



Corydalis 58, 62 



Cory norhi nu s 330 



Costus 353 



Crassulacea; 379 



Crataegus 58 



Crataeva 364 



Crepidula 345 



Cribraria 281 



Cribrella ]71 




486 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



Crinum 356 



Crossarchus 1222 



Crotalaria 376. 378 



Croton 131, 405 



Cruciferse 364 



Cryptolopha 153 



Cryptonymus 167 



Cryptoprocta 215-230, 237-242 



Ctenodiscus 174 



Cucumis 383 



Cucurbita 383 



Cucurbitaceae 383 



Culcita 173 



Culicicapa 153 



Cuphea 381 



Cuscuta 394 



Cuscutere.' 394 



Cycadere 352 



Cycas 353 



Cylindrdla 195, 208 



Cylindrellidre 208 



Cynocephalus 31 



Cynodictis 211, 217, 222, 223, 226, 



229, 230, 233. 240, 242 



Cynodon 361 



Cynogale 224 



Cynonycteris 336 



Cynopterus 337 



Cyperacere 360 



Cyperus 131, 360 



Cytherea 142 



Dactyloctenium 361 



Dafila 267 



Dalmanites 167 



Danthonia 58 



Daphrenus 211 



Dasycladeas 351 



Datura 395 



Daucus 384 



Davalia 352 



Decaptus 42 



Delphinium 363 



Dendroica 268, 270 



Dentalium 298 



Dermodium 189 



Derobranchus 268, 269, 270 



De Saulesite 184 



Desmanthus 375 



Desmodium 377 



Desmodus 318 



Diabase 11 



Diaphorophyia 146 



Dichondra 394 



Dichondre?e 394 



Dicliptera 398 



Dichromena 360 



Digenia 154 



Digitaria 361 



Dinectus 247, 252, 255 



Dinictis 211-231, 237-240 



Dinoc)on 232 



Dinopis 341 



Dioscoreae 357 



Dipholis 390 



Diphylla 319 



Diplactis 105, 110-113 



Diplomorpha 92 



Discus 200 



Donax 347 



Drepanodon 29, 240 



Dryobates 268 



Drypetes 404 



Dufouria 10 



Duncan ia 307 



Duranta 399 



Dysdera 98 



Echinaster 171 



Echinasteriidse 171 



Echinocactus 384 



Echinocephalus 11 



Echites 391 



Eclipta 388 



Elagatis 42,43,44 



Elephas 96 



Eleusine 361 



Elminia 153 



Emarginula 142 



Emballonura 321 



Emys 97 



Encrinurus 167 



Encrinus 167 



Entendium 156, 158, 189 



Epeira 98,180-183 



Epidendron 131 



Epidendrum 355 



Epomophorus 335 



Epsilonphorus 259 



Eragrostis 361 



Ericineae 389 



Erigeron 387 



Eriodendron 367 



Erithalis 386 



Ernodea 386 



Erythrina.... 378 



Erythrite 34 



Ery t h rocercus 1 50 



Erythromyias 148 



Erythroxylere 369 



Erytiuoxylon 369 



Eucharis 356 



Eucladociinus 289 



Eudotea 351 



Eugenia 131, 380 



Eulima 299 



Euomphalus 291,296 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



487 



Euonymus 65 



Euparypha 193 



Eupatorium 131, 387 



Euphorbia 131, 406 



Euphorbiacea; 131, 404 



Eustoma 393 



Eutaenia 421 



Euterpe 859 



Euxolus 402 



Evolvulus 393 



Exccecaria 406 



Exostemma 385 



Fagara 371 



Falco 268 



Felices 352 



Felidce 211 



Felis 222, 241 



Ferussacia 208 



Ficus 403 



Filistata 98 



Fimbristylis 360 



Fleurya 403 



Fluorite 184 



Foeniculum 385 



Forestiera 391 



Fruticicola 193, 202 



Fucaceae 351 



Fuchsia 382 



Gadolinite 164 



Gahnite 50 



Galactia 377 



Galecynus 211, 233 



Galeoscoptes 266 



Galiodes 45 



Galium 386 



Gardenia 386 



Gastrodonta 198 



Gemma 268 



Gemmaria 124, 125 



Genipa 387 



Gentianece 393 



Geothlypis 270 



Gerardia 396 



Gerygone 148 



Gilbertsocrinus 288 



Gladiolus 356 



Glandina 195, 278 



Glauconite 34 



Glossophaga 318 



Glycosmis 371 



Glyptodon 97, 195 



Glyptostoma 192, 202 



Gomphrena , 402 



Goniasteridre 172 



Goniobasis 87 



Gonostoma 195, 206 



Gonyleptes 45 



Goodenoviese 389 



Gorgonocephalus 179 



Gossypium 867 



Gouania 873 



Grallator 32 



Gramineae 131, 311 



Granateae 381 



Graphite 33 



Gregarina 9 



Grus 268 



Guaiacum 370 



Guettarda 386 



Guilandina 375, 378 



Guppya 198 



Guttiferse 366 



Haematoxylon 375,378 



Hcemulon 36 



Halimeda 351 



Halichondria 72 



Hamelia 385 



Harpagopus 33 



Harpyia 338 



Hedwigia 372 



Helianthus 388 



Heliaster 170 



Helicidse 199 



Helicina 93 



Helicteres 367 



Heliodiscus 200 



Heliotropium 394 



Helix. ..82, 84, 138, 191, 192, 194, 200, 



277, 279, 413 



Helops 248 



Helminthoglypta 193 



Hemichelipon 146 



Hemipholis 177 



Hemitrochus 202, 413 



Hemphillia 199 



Herpestis 397 



Heterodermeae 281 



Heteropoda 98 



Hibiscus 367, 368 



Hipparion 96 



Hippomane 406 



Hippotherium 96 



Holopea 298 



Holopella 298 



Holospira 81, 195, 207 



Hoplocephala 10 



Hoplophoneus 212, 215-218, 220, 



230, 239, 240 



Hoplophorus 97 



Hoplorhynchus 10 



Hormathia 110 



Hoya 392 



Hura 406 



Huso 247 




488 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



Hyaena. . 241 



Hyaenarctos 232 



Hyaenodon 230, 242 



Hyalina 84, 197 



Hyalinia 86 



Hyalosagda 86 



Hydracantharis 10 



Hydrobia 87 



Hydrocotyle 384 



H y d roleaceae 393 



Hydrophilidae 311 



Hyla n 267, 268, 269 



Hyliota 149 



Hymeniacidon 72 



Hypelata 373 



Hypericineae 366 



Hypothymis 149 



Hypotrichia 269,270 



Hypsignathus 336 



Hyptiotes 181 



Hyptis 399 



Ilex 372 



Ilicineae 372 



Ilyanassa 71 



Impatiens 370 



Ipomoea 131,393 



Iresine 402 



Irideae 355 



Iris • 355 



Isaurus 117 



Isocarpa 388 



Jacaranda 397 



Jacquinia 390 



Jambosa 380 



"janipha 405 



Jasmineae , 390 



J a s m i n u m 390 



Jatropha 405 



juglans 58 



julus 127 



juncagineae 357 



juniperus 58, 353 



Juno 86 



Jussiaea 382 



Justicia 397 



Kathetostoma 259, 260, 265 



Labiatse 399 



Labrus 162 



Lactuca 389 



Lagenaria 383 



Lagerstroemia 381 



Lantana 398 



Larus 266 



Lasionycteris 325 



Lauri neae 403 



Lawsonia 381 



Lebidibia 376, 37S 



Lecuminosn.' 131, 374 



Leiotealia 



Leonot is 



Leonurus 



Lepidium 



Lepidolite , 



Leptocephalus 



Leptophus 



Leucaena 375, 



Leucocheila 



Licea 157, 



Liguus 1 95 , 



Liliacese 



Lilmm 



Limacidae 



Limax 194, 



Li nana 



Linckia 



Linckiidae 



Linguatula 



Lioniscus 



Lioptdus 



Lippia 



Lithobius 11, 127, 



Logan iacea; 



Lonicera 



I .oph act is 



Lophius 



Loranthaceae 



Loranthus 



Loxonema 298,299, 



Loxosceles 



Luffa 



Luidia 



Lycogala 



Lycopeisicum 



Lycosa 98, 



Lygosoma 



Lysiloma 375, 



Lysinoe 193, 



Lythrarieae 



M acacus 



Macbairodus 



Madura.. 



Macoma 



Macroceramus 



Macrocheilus 296, 299, 303, 



Macrochilia 



Mactra 



Magnolia 



Mahernia 



Malachite 



Malpighia 



Malpighiaceae 



Malurus 



Malvaceae 131, 



M al va v iscus 



Mambranipora 



Mammea 



103 

 400 

 400 

 364 

 35 

 95 

 268 

 378 

 206 

 281 

 208 

 359 

 359 

 196 

 196 

 396 

 171 

 171 

 31 

 248 

 149 

 398 

 129 

 392 

 385 

 109 

 344 

 407 

 407 

 307 

 98 

 383 

 174 

 189 

 395 

 100 

 268 

 378 

 201 

 381 

 31 

 29 

 404 

 141 

 208 

 306 

 307 

 71 

 62 

 55 

 33 

 369 

 369 

 149 

 366 

 368 

 345 

 366 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



489 



Mammillifera 117, 125 



Mandevillea 391 



Mangifera , 374 



Manicina 119 



Maranta 353 



Marrubium 4(10 



Martynia 398 



Mazapilite 45 



Mecistocephalus 127, 12S 



Megaderma 333 



Melaconite 34 



Melanerpes 269 



Melania 92 



Melaniella 208 



Melanite 34 



Melanospermese 351 



Melanthera 388 



M elastomacere 380 



Melia 372 



Meliaceae 372 



Melicocca 373 



Melocactus 384 



Melochia 368 



Menemerus 98 



Mesodon 193, 195, 203, 414 



Mesomphix 196 



Metabolus 148 



Metastelma 392 



Metoptoma 292, 298 



Miacis 221 



Micrarionta 193 



Microeca 146 



Microepei ra 1 80 



Microphysa 82, 191, 192, 195, 200, 



277 



Mimosa 375 



Mimoseae 374 



Mimus 270 



Mimusops 390 



Miniopteris 321, 322, 324, 339 



Mirabilis 400 



Miro 148 



Mithrodia 171 



Mnio 270 



Modiola 71 



Molossus 327 



Molybdenite 33 



Momordica 383 



Monarcha 154 



Moreae 403 



Moringa 365 



Moringe a; 365 



Mormoops 331, 339 



Mucuna 378, 379 



Murchisonia 297 



Musa 354 



M u s ac e a? 354 



Muscicapa 147 



Musqicapula 148 



Mya 276 



Mygi nda 372 



Myiagra 153 



My rica 4H4 



Myricese 404 



Myrsine 390 



Myrsinese 390 



Myrtacese 380 



Mysia 141 



Naiadea; 357 



Nama 393 



Nand i ni a 236 



Narcissus 356 



Natalus 332,339 



Natica 305 



Naticopsis 293, 305, 309 



Nectandra 403 



Neofiber 271, 272 



Neolite 35 



Neomyias 151 



Neotoma 1 4-28 



Nepenthese 407 



Nepenthes 407 



Nepeta 399 



Nephila 98 



Neptunia 374 



Nerium 391 



Nicolite 184 



Nicotiana 395 



Niltava 154 



Nimravidse 212, 230 



Nimravus 223 



Noctilio 320,322 



Nyctaginere 400 



Nycteris 333 



Nyctinomus 327 



Nyctobates 10 



Ny cy i eej us 330 



Nyssa 69 



Ocimum 399 



Odostornia 267,268 



Olacineae 372 



Oleacinidae 278 



Oliva 137 



Onagrariese 382 



Onchidella 210 



Onchidiidse 210 



Onchidium 210 



Oncidium 355 



Opeas 207 



Ophiactis 176 



Ophidiaster 172 



Ophiocnida 177 



Ophiocoma 177 



Ophioglypha 144, 176 



Ophiolepis 175 



Ophioncus 143, 176 




490 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



Oph i onerei s 177 



Ophiopholis 176 



Ophioplocus 175 



Ophiopteris 1 78 



Ophiostigma 177 



Ophiotlirix 178 



Ophiozona 143 



Ophiura 76, 143, 175 



Ophiuridre 175 



Opuntia 3S4 



Orcadella 180,281 



Orcadellaceae 280 



Orchidea: 355 



Oreaster 173 



Oreodoxa 358 



Orthalicidre 208 



Orthalicus 195, 208 



Orthomesus 136 



Orthoprist i s 36 



Orthotricha 189 



Orthotrichia 189,281 



Oryza 361 



Osmunda 53 



Ostrea 70 



Ostrya 58 



Oulactis 105, 108 



Oxyaenas 242 



Oxychona 91 



Oxypetalum 392 



Pallifera 199 



Pal ma; 357 



Palmetto 358 



Palmi pes 174 



Palythoa 121 



Pancratium 356 



Panicum 361 



Papaveracea; 364 



Papillina 73 



Papilionacea; 376 



Papilio 268, 269 



Paradoxurus 224, 227, 228, 230 



Parisoma 149 



Parthenium 388 



Paspalum 361 



Passiflora 131, 382 



Passiflorea: 382 



Pastinaca 384 



Patula 82, 191, 199 



Paullinia 376, 378 



Pecten 275 



Pectis 388 



Pelecanus 266, 267 



Pella 277, 279 



Peltophorum 378 



Penicillus 352 



Pentagonaster 1 72 



Pentastomum 31 



Pentatrenia 201 



Pera 406 



Persea 40:; 



Petitia 399 



Petiveria 401 



Petroicn 447 



Petroselinum 385 



Petunia 395 



Phacussa 191 



Phalacrocorax 266 



Phaseolus 377, 379 



Phasianella 137 



Phialanthus 386 



Philentoma 153 



Philoxerus 402 



Phdns 274, 276 



Pholcus 98 



Phoradendron 407 



Phyllactidae 105 



Phyllactis 125 



Phyllanthus 405 



Phyllorhina 335 



Phyllostoma 317 



Phymactis 106 



Phyinanthidas 113 



Phymanthu* 113, 125 



Physalis 396 



Physetocrin us 290 



Phytolaccaceae 401 



Phytolacca 401 



Picramnia 371 



Picrodendron 371 



Pieris 270 



Piezoihynchus 153 



Pilea 403 



Pimenta 381 



Pimpinella 385 



Pinus 56, 58, 69, 134, 344, 353 



Piscidia 378 



Pisonia 400 



Pithecolobium 375, 378 



Planogyra 200 



PI antagin ea; 400 



Plantago 400 



Platyceras 287, 288, 293 



Platystira 147 



Platystoma 293 



Plectostylus 306 



Pleurotomaria 298 



Pluchea 387 



Plumbaginea; 389 



Plumbago 389 



Plumiera 391 



Poecilodryas 148 



Poecilozonites 85 



Poiana 237 



Poinciana 376 



Polianthes 359 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



491 



Poliomyias 148 



Polygala 365 



Polygalere 365 



Polygoneae 401 



Polygonum 59, 401 



Polygyra 84, 193, 195, 203, 205 



Polygvrella 206 



Polyphemopsis 299,300 302, 305 



Polypodiacea 352 



Poly pod i um . .» 57, 352 



Pomarea 154 



Pomatia 201 



Pomus 268 



Porcellia 298 



Portulaca 366 



Portulacea; 366 



Potamea 357 



Potamogeton 357 



Praiicola 202 



Pratincola 78- 80, 148 



Priacanthidse 160 



Priacanthus 160 



Primulaceie 389 



Prionodon 230, 23T 



Pristiloma 191, 198 



Pristina 191 



Proailurus 218, 223-225,229, 240- 



242 



Procyon 225, 226, 227 



Procyonida 232 



Prophysaon 199 



Protopsalis 242 



Prunus 379 



Pseudogerygone 148 



Pseudopriacanthus 160, 163 



Psidium 381 



Psychotria 386 



Pteraster 175 



Pterasteridas 175 



Pteris 352 



Pterophry ne 344, 345 



Pteropus 336 



Ptinidae 311 



Ptychopatula 191, 195, 200 



Punctum 192, 194, 200 



Punica 381 



Pupa 194, 206, 266, 411, 414--416 



Pupidae 206 



Pycnanth emum 58 



Pyrallolite 34 



Pyramidula 192 



Pyrite 34 



Pyroxene 34 



Quartz 34 



Quercus 58, 280 



Quiscalus 270 



Quisqualis 380 



Rajania 357 



Rana 267, 269 



Randia 386 



Ranunculaceas 363 



Raphvrus 72 



Rauw'olria 391 



Repidolite 35 



Reticularia 157, 189 



Rhachicallis 386 



Rhamneae 373 



Rhinopoma 323 



Rh i olophu s 333 



Rhipidura 150 



Rhizophora 271, 380 



Rh i zopho reae 380 



Rhus 374 



Rhynchosia 377, 379 



Rh vnchospora 360 



Rhytida 278 



Richardia 359 



Ricinus 405 



Rissoina 267 



Rivinia 401 



Rosa 58, 63, 379 



Rosaceae 379 



Rostramus 268 



Rubiaceae 131, 385 



Rubus 58 



Rumina 194, 207 



Russelia 397 



Sabal 358 



Sabbatia 393 



Saccharum 362 



Saccoptery a 321 



Saccopteryx 338 



Sagartidae 102 



Sagda 86 



Sagiltaria 357 



Salicornia 402 



Salmea 388 



Salticus 98 



Salvia 399 



Sambucus 385 



Samolus 389 



Sapindaceae 373 



Sapium 406 



Sapota 390 



Sapoteae 390 



Sargassum 351 



Sayornis 268 



Scaevola 389 



Scaphirynchops 257 



Scaphirhynchus 246, 255, 256 



Scarabaei dae 31 1 



Schizostoma 31 7 



Schoenanthus 362 



Schoepfia 37tj 



Sciurus 268 



Scleria 360 




492 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



Scolopocry plops 



Scolopendra 



Scoparia 



Scotophilia 



Scrophularineae 



Sechium 



Scisura 



Selenitidae 195, 



Selenites 



Seriola 



Seriolichthys 



Serjani'a 



Serpentine 



Sesameae 



Sesamum 



Sesuvium 



Setaria 



Seutera 



Sida 



Sideroxylon 



Simarubeae 



Si napis 



Siphia 



Si phonaceae 



Si phoptychium 



Smicrornis 



Smilaceae 



Smilax 



S m i I od o n 



Smithornis 



Solanaceae 



Solatium 131, 



Solarium 



Solaster 



Soleniscus 299, 303, 300, 



Solpuga 



Somatogy rus 



Sonn eratia 



Sophora 



Sorgh um , 



Spatula 



Spermacoce 



Sphaeraclea 



Sphaerodoma 290, 303, 



Sphaerium 



Sphyrapicus 



Spigelia 



Spiranthes 



Spi robolus 



Spirorbis 



Spondias 



Spongia 



Sponia 



Sporobolus 



Squalius 260, 267, 



Stachytarpha 



Stapelia 



Statice 



10 



127 

 306 

 328 

 396 

 383 

 153 

 278 

 195 



42 



42 

 373 



34 

 398 

 398 

 366 

 361 

 392 

 366 

 390 

 371 

 304 

 154 

 351 

 189 

 148 

 300 

 360 



29 

 153 

 395 

 395 

 291 

 171 

 309 



4r> 

 195 



69 

 378 

 302 

 267 

 386 

 368 

 305 



88 

 269 

 392 

 355 

 127 

 345 

 374 



70 

 404 

 361 

 268 

 398 

 392 

 389 



Stemonitis 188 



Stenogyridae 207 



Stenoplesictis 232, 240 



Stenostira 149 



Stenostomum 386 



Ste notaphi um 361 



Stenotrema 1113, 19.1, 204 



Steph anot us 392 



Sterculi acere 368 



Sterletus 247 



Sterna 266 



Stigmaphy lion 369 



Stilbite 34 



Stipa 361 



Stoparola 154 



Straparollus 287, 291, 295 



Strepomatidae 195 



Sireptaxidae 278 



Strobila 206 



Strophia 207 



Strumpfia 386 



Sturio 247, 250, 255 



Sturnella 208, 269 



Stylorhynchus 10 



Stylosanthes 377 



Suaeda 402 



Subulites 300 



Subursidae 232 



Succinea 191, 194, 209 



Succineidae 209 



Suriana 401 



Suricata 222 



Swietenia 372 



Sympbe m i a 268 



Syrnium 268 



Tabernaemontana 391 



Tachea 201 



Taenitis 352 



Tamarindus 376,378 



Tamariscinere 366 



Tamarix 366 



Tamonea 398 



Tophozous 323 



Tapirus 96 



Tarsiger 149 



Taxodium 67 



Tebennophoridae 198 



Tebennophorus 198 



Tecoma 397 



Tephrowillemite 184 



Terebinthaceae 374 



Terminalia 380 



Terp^i phone 151 



Testacellidae 195 



Tetrazygia 380 



Teucri um 400 



Thalassia 357 



Theridiosoma 180-183 




1889.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



493 



Theridium 98 



Thespesia 368 



Thevetia 39] 



Thouinia 373 



Thrinax 358 I 



Throptera 332, 339 



Tliysanophora 1 •>- 



Tiliacese 3fiS 



Tillandsia 131, 354 



Tilmadoche 48 



Tournefort ia 394 



Trachia 138 



Tradescantia 360 



Triads 382 



Tribulus 370 



Trichia 188 



Tricholaena 362 



Triglochin 357 



Triodopsis 193, 195, 204 



Triopteris 369 



Triumfetta 368, 369 



Trochocercus 150 



Trochomorpha 86, 93 



Trochus 1 36 



Truncatel ia 267 



Trvonia 87 



Tubulina 188, 189, 281 



Turnera 382 



Turneraceae 382 



Turricola 202 



Typha 359 



Typhaceae 359 



Tyrannus 269 



Uloborus 98, 181 



Umhelliferce 384 



Uniola 362 



Un isulcus 33 



Upsilonphorus 262, 264, 265 



Uranoscupida; 258 



Uranoscopus 259, 260,261, 262, 265 



Urticese 403 



Vagmulidae 209 



Vaginulus 194, 209 



Vallesia 391 



Vallonia 5:06 



Valoniacese 352 



Vampy rops 318 



Vampyrus 316 



Venus 70 



Verbascum 396 



Verbena 398 



Verbenacese 398 



Vernonia 387 



Veronicella 194 



Vertigo 194, 207 



Vespertilio 326, 330, 33S 



Vespei ugo 326, 327 



Vesperus 326,338 



Viburnum 385 



Vmca 391 



Vincetoxicum 392 



Vioa 71,72 



Violaceae, 365 



Vitis 373 



Vitrina 196, 278 



Vitrinozonites 196 



Viverra 212, 222, 233, 2*9 



Viverricula 236 



Viverridae 211, 230 



Volvox 138 



Waltheria 368 



Wedelia 388 



Vucca 53, 359 



Xanthium 388 



Xanthopygia 148 



Xantboxyleae 871 



Xanthoxylum 371 



Xeropbila 193 



Ximenia 372 



Xylosma 365 



Xy st icus 98 



Zagymuns 269 



Zamia 352 



Zaplous 269, 270 



Zea 362 



Zeocephus 151 



Zeuglodou 96 



Zilla 183 



Zingiber 354 



Zingiberaceae 353 



Zingis 277, 278 



Zinnia 389 



Zirphsea 274, 276 



Zoanthidte 113 



Zoanthus 113-117, 125 



Zonites...82, 83, 84, 191, 194, 196, 412 

 Zygopbylleae 370 




GENERAL INDEX. 

 1889. 



Additions to Library, 450. 



Additions to Museum, 446. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. On the Taxo- 

 nomic Value of the Wing Membrane 

 and the Terminal Phalanges of the 

 Digit in the Cheiroptera (Plate X). 

 283, 313. On the distribution of 

 color-marks in the Pteropodidce, 410. 



Ashburner, Chas. A. Announcement 

 of death of, 410. 



Baker, Frank C. Notes on the Food of 

 Birds, 189, 266. Remarks on the 

 Round tailed Muskrat, Neofiber Al- 

 ieni, True, 190, 271. On the modi- 

 fication of the Apex in Murex, 408. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 annual report of, 432. 



Bollman, Charles H. Notes on asmall 

 collection of Myriapods from the Ber- 

 muda Islands, 95, 127. 



Botanical Section, annual report of, 435. 



Brinton, Daniel G , M. D. On a Petro- 

 glyph from the Island of St. Vincent, 

 W. I., 410, 417. Report of Professor 

 of Ethnology and Archaeology, 440. 



Brown, Arthur Ervvin. Description of 

 a new species of Eutaenia, 410, 421. 



Conchological Section, annual report of, 

 433. 



Cook, Geo. H. Announcement of death 

 of, 283 



Correspondents, election of, 445. 



Corresponding Secretary, annual report 

 of, 425. 



Curators, annual report of, 429. 



Dall, W. H. Notes on the anatomy of 

 Pholas (Barnea) costata and Zirphasa 

 crispata, Lin., 190, 274. 



Dolley, Chas. S., M. D. The Botany 

 of the Bahamas, 130. 



Elections of members and Correspon- 

 dents, 444. 



Entomological Section, annual report 

 of, 434. 



Eyerman, John. Notes on Geology and 

 Mineralogy, 32. 



Ford, John. Remarks on Oliva inflata, 

 Chem., O. irisans, Lam. and other 

 species of shells, 137. Notes on 

 Crepidula, 345. 



Gardiner, John and L. J. K. Brace. 

 Provisional list of the Plants of the Ba- 

 hama Islands, 129, 349. 



Genih, F. A. On two new Minerals 

 from Delaware Co., Penn., 31, 50. 



Goldsmith, E. Gadolinite from Llano 

 Co., Texas, 164. 



Hartman, W. D., M. D. New species 

 of Shells from New Hebrides (Plate 

 V), 29,91. Description of new Shells 

 from the Island of Segon, New Heb- 

 rides, 190. Description of new spe- 

 cies of Shells, 410. 



Hayden Memorial Geological Award, 

 Committee on, 29. 



Heilprin, Angelo. On some new spe- 

 cies o( Mollusca from the Bermuda 

 Islands (Plate VIII), 95, 141. Re- 

 port of Curators, 429. Report of Pro- 

 fessor of Invertebrate Paleontology, 

 439. 



Henszey, William C. Report of Treas- 

 urer, 442. 



Hess, Robert, M. D. Report of Biolog- 

 ical and Microscopical Section, 432. 



Hewson, Addinell, M. D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 283. 



Horn, Geo. II., M. D. The Antennae 

 of Coleoptera, 311. Report of Cor- 

 responding Secretary, 425. 



Hutchinson, James H., M. D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 410. 



Ives, J. E. Linguatula Diesingii from 

 the Sooty Mangabey, 31. Color va- 

 riations in Ophiura Panamensis and 

 Ophiura teres, 48, 76. On a new 

 genus and two new species of Ophi- 



(494) 




1889.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



495 



urans, 96, 143. Catalogue of the As- 

 teroidea and Ophiuroidea in the col- 

 lection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, 129, 169. 

 Mimicry of the environment in Ptero- 

 phryne histrio, 344. 



Jeanes, Mary, announcement of death 

 of, 344. 



Jordan, David S. and Bert. Fesler. 

 Description of a new species of Or- 

 thopristis from the Galapagos Islands, 

 36. 



Kirsch, Philip H. A review of the Eu- 

 ropean and American Uranoscopidae 

 or Star Gazers, 189, 258. 



Kirsch, Philip H. and Morton W. For- 

 dice. A review of the American spe- 

 cies of Sturgeons (Acipenseridae), 

 180, 245. 



Keyes, Charles R. Lower Carbonic 

 Gasteropoda from Burlington, Iowa, 

 282, 284. Sphaerodoma, a genus of 

 fossil Gasteropods, 282, 303- The 

 American species of Polyphemopsis, 

 282, 299. 



Koenig, George A. On Anhydrite, 11. 

 Mazapilite, a new mineral species, 

 45. Cloanthite, Nicolite, De Saule- 

 site, Annabergite, Tephrowillemite, 

 Fluorite and Aquatite from Franklin, 

 N.J.,184. 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. On several Gre- 

 garines and a singular mode of con- 

 junction of one of them, 9. The Sa- 

 bre-tooth Tiger of Florida, 29. Note 

 on Gonyleptesand Solpuga, 45. The 

 Boring Sponge, Cliona, 47. 70. A 

 Parasitic Copepod, 95. Fossil Ver- 

 tebrates from Florida, 96. Report 

 of Curators, 429. 



Librarian, annual report of, 426. 



Library, additions to, 450. 



McCook, Rev. H. C. Note on the true 

 systematic position of the Ray Spider, 

 180. 



McMurrich, J. Playfair, Ph. D. A con- 

 tribution to the Actinology of the Ber- 

 mudas (Plate VI. and VII), 95, 102. 



Marx, Geo., M D. A contribution to 

 the Spider fauna of the Bermuda Is- 

 lands (Plate IV), 95, 98. On a new 

 species of Spider of the Genus Dino- 

 pis from the Southern United States 

 (Plate XI), 311, 341. 



Meehan, Thomas, Contribution to the 

 Life Histories of Plants, No. IV, 31, 

 53. Report of Botanical Section, 

 435. 



Meek, Seth E. and Charles H. Boll- 

 man. Note on Elagastis bipinnula- 

 tus, 29, 42. 



Members, elections of, 444. 



Meyer, Abraham. Notes on the pres- 

 • ence of the Umbral or Mountain 

 Limestone in Lycoming Co., Penna., 

 310. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 annual report of, 438. 



Morrison, Willard L. A review of the 

 American species of Priacanthida?, 

 140, 159. 



Museum, additions to, 446 



Nolan, Edward J., M. D. Report of 

 Recording Secretary, 423. Report 

 of Librarian, 426. Report of Con- 

 chological Section, 433. 



Officers for 1890, 444. 



Pilsbry, H. A. On new and little- 

 known American Mollusca, No. I 

 (Plate III), 48, 81. The Radula in 

 Rhipidoglossate Mullusks, 136. No- 

 menclature and check-list of North 

 American Land Mollusks, 180, 19J- 

 On the Anatomy of Aerope and Zin- 

 gis (Plate IX), 277. New and little, 

 known American Mollusks, No. II 

 (Plate XII), 311, 411. Report of 

 Conchological Section, 433. 



Professor of Ethnology and Archaeol- 

 ogy, annual report of, 440. 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology, 

 annual report of, 439. 



Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, an- 

 nual report of, 440. 



Rand, Theo. D. Notes on the Drift at 

 Block Island, 408. Report of Min- 

 eralogical and Geological Section, 

 438. 



Recording Secretary, annual report of, 

 423. 



Redfield, J. H. Notes on Corema Con- 

 radii, 135. Note on Pinus Banksi- 

 ana, 344. Report of Botanical Sec- 

 tion, 435. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 432. 



Report of Botanical Section, 435. 



Report of Conchological Section, 433. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 425. 



Report of Curators, 429. 



Report of Entomological Section, 434. 



Report of Librarian, 426. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 438. 



Report of Professor of Ethnology and 

 Archaeology, 440. 




496 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1889. 



Report of Professor of Invertebrate Pa- 

 leontology, 439. 



Report or Professor of Invertebrate Zo- 

 ology, 440. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 423. 



Report of Treasurer, 442 



Ridings, James H. Report of Ento- 

 mological Section, 434. 



Rothrock, J. T., M. D. The Sand- 

 dunes of Lewes, Del., 134. 



Ryder, J. A. On the fore and aft poles, 

 the axial differentiation and a possi- 

 ble anterior sensory apparatus of Vol- 

 vox minor, 138. Heterocercy in Ba- 

 trachia, 155. The hypertrophied 

 hairs on Ampelopsis, 155. The Phy- 

 logeny of the Sweat Glands, 158, 190. 

 The Origin and Meaning of Sex, 18'J, 

 190. 



Safford, J. M. and A. W. Vogdes. De- 

 scription on new species of fossil 

 Crustacea from the lower Silurian of 

 Tennessee with remarks on others not 

 well known, 155, 166. 



Schaffir, Chas. Report of Botanical 

 Section, 435. 



Schimmel, Jo'-e O., announcement of 

 death of, 410. 



Scott, Wm. P. Notes on the osteology 

 and systematic position of Dinictis 

 Felina, Leidy, 158, 211. » 



Sections, meetings of, 49. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Activity in 

 Donax, 347. Change of habit caus- 

 ing change of structure, 347. Re- 

 port of Professor of Invertebrate Zo- 

 ology, 440. 



Shoemaker, Geo. Y., announcement of 

 death of, 155. 



Shufeldt, R. W. Observations upon the 

 development of the skull in Neo- 

 toma fuscipes ; a contribution to the 

 morphology of the Rodentia (Plates 

 I and II), 14. 



Smith, Uselma C, election to Council, 

 158. 



Sterki. V., M. D. On new forms of 

 Vertigo, 410. 



Stone, Witmer. On Pratinocola salax 

 and allied species, Verr., 48, 78. 

 Catalogue of the Muscicapidae in the 

 Collection of the Academy, 135, 146. 

 Catalogue of the Owls, Strigae, in the 

 collection of the Academy, 348. 



Tower, Charlemagne, announcement of 

 death of, 190. 



Treasurer, annual report of, 442. 



Williamson, Isaiah V., announcement 

 of death of, 47. 



Wdliston, S. W. The Stemalis Mus- 

 cle, 13, 38. 



Wilson, William P. The production of 

 aerating organs on the roots of swamp 

 and other plants, 67. On the use of 

 Bambusa Stem in incandescent elec- 

 tric lighting, 129. 



Wingate, Harold. Tilmadoche com- 

 pacta, Wing., n. sp., 48. Notes on 

 Enteridium Roseanum, 156. The 

 Spores of the Myxomycetes, 188. 

 Note on Orthotricha, 189. Orcadel- 

 la operculata Wing., a new Myx- 

 omycete, 280. 



Winsor, Henry, announcement of death 

 of, 344. 




•roc.Arad Nat.Sci PhiLa.1889 



Plate X. 





H.ALLEN ON WING MEMBRANES OF CHEIROPTERA. 





Proc.Acdd.Nat.Sci.Phila.1889. 



PL XT 



9 





■ 



V 



filar X, ad i,at. del. 



=r ^ ■ *.* T^r^^TT-?^ 



Ill 



z& 



D1N0PUS SPINOSUS MARX. 





Proc. Arad.Nat . Sci.Phila. 1889 



Plate XII. 



ry del . 



PIESBRY ON NEW AMERICAN MOLLUSKS 





PROCEEDINGS 



SmtUmg of %\Uin\\ itkntt 



5 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PABT I. JANUAB.Y-APRIL, 1880. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joskph Lkidy, M. D., Gko. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfif.ld. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Noi.an, M. D. 



"Y 



\ 



PHILADELPHIA: " 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 18.S9. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Scries of the Journal and Part II of Volume IX (Quarto) 

 has been issued — 1847 to 1838. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to 

 subscribers"; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalia Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M. D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members ; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings'; commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1880), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which eighteen volumes were completed Dee. 31, 1888), is published at $5 per annum, pay- 

 able in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865 — 71. Seven vols., Svo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



BOOKS IFOIR- S^LIKL 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed : 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1S30-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plntes, colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



IIaldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored 



Plates, $25 ; with plain plates, $1 8. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid/e (Mclanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



By Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



No no: to Booksellers— All the publications of the Society will be supplied to 

 Booksellers ai a discount i>f 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application lo be made .to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 c-nncrof Nineteenth and Rare Streets. 



June, iSSg. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mrs. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences in trust the sum of $2500.00, to he known as the Hayden 

 Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her husband the 

 late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden M. D., LL." D. According to the 

 terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of the interest 

 arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the best pub- 

 lication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences of geology 

 and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof as may be 

 designated. The award and all matters connected therewith are 

 to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appropriate 

 manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to 

 American naturalists. 




CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 



LEIDY, Joseph, M. D. On several Gregarines, and a singular mode of conjugation 



of one of them. ............ 9 



Koenig, George A. On Anhydrite 11 



Shufeldt, R. W. Observations upon the development of the skull in Neotoma 



fuscipes ; a contribution to the Morphology of the Rodentia. (Plates I, II.) . 14 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. The Sabre-tooth Tiger of Florida 29 



Ives, J. E. Linguatula Diesingii from the Sooty Mangabey. ..... 31 



Eyerman, John. Notes on geology and mineralogy. ...... 32 



Jordan, David S. and Bert Fesler. Description of a new species of Orthopristis 



from the Galapagos Islands. . . ' . . . . . . . .3(1 



Wili.iston, S. W., M. D. The Sternalis muscle .38 



Meek, Seth, E. and Charles H. Bollman. Note on Elagatis bipinnulatus. . . 42 

 Leidy, Joseph. Note on Gonyleptes and Solpuga. ....... 45 



Koenig; George A. Mazapilite, a new mineral species. ..... 45 



Wingate, Harold. Tilmadoche compacta, Wing., n. sp. 48 



Genth, F. A. On two minerals from Delaware County, Pa. ... . . .50 



Meehan Thomas. Contributions to the life-histories of plants, No. IV. On second 

 inflorescence. Note on Pinus pungens and its allies. On Corydalis flavula D. C 

 Dimorphism in Polygona. On the nature and office of Stipules. On paralle 

 habits in allied species from widely separated localities. 



Wilson, William P. The production of aerating organs on the roots of swamp and 



other plants. .......... 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. The boring-sponge, Cliona. 



Ives, J. E. Variations in Ophiura Panamensis and Ophiura teres. 



Stone, Witmer. On Pratincola salax Verr., and allied species. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. New and little-known American Molluscs. No. 1. (Plate III.) 



Hartman, W. D., M. D. New species of shells from New Hebrides. (Plate V.) 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. A parasitic Copepod. ....... 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Fossil vertebrates from Florida. ... . 



Marx, Geo., M. D. A contribution to the knowledge of the spider Fauna of the 



Bermuda Islands. (Plate IV.) . . . • . " . 



McMuRRlCH, J. Playeair, Ph. D. A contribution to the Actinology of the Bermudas 



(Plates VI, VII.) 



Bollman, Charles II. Notes on a small collection of Myriapods from the Bermuda 



Islands. .............. 



53 



67 

 70 

 76 

 78 

 81 

 91 

 95 

 96 



98 



102 



126 




Q 



PROCEEDINGS 



!\ratfcii{u of jUtotal ^(U\\tt 



~ } 



$ 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART II. MAY-SEPTEMBER, 1889. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE: 



Joseph Lkidv. M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Ei>w. J. Nolan, M. D., • Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



-9. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE, 



1889. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part II of Volume IX (Quarto) 

 has been issued — 1S47 to 1884. The price per volume of four parts is §10, or $3 per part, to 

 subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $.'5.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalia Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M. D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members ; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 18S0), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which eighteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1888), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Jocunal of Conchology, 1865 — 71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



BOOKS IFOIR, SALE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed: 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with colored 



Plates, $25 ; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid.e (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers of Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



By Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred tine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers — All the publications of the Society will be supplied to 

 Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



October, i8S<p. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mrs. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences in trust the sum of $2500.00, to be known as the Hayden 

 Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her husband the 

 late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden M. D., LL. D. According to the 

 terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of the interest 

 arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the best pub- 

 lication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences of geology 

 and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof as may be 

 designated. The award and all matters connected therewith are 

 to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appropriate 

 manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to 

 American naturalists. 




CONTENTS. 



1!< ii, i.man, Charles H. Notes on a small collection of Myriapods from the Bur- 

 muda Islands. (Conclusion.) .......... 



Wilson, Wm. P. On the use of the Bambusa Stem in Incandescent Electric 

 Lighting ............. 



Charles S. Doi.lv y, M. D. The Botany of the Bahamas .... 



Rothrock, J. T., M. D. The Sand-Dunes of Lewes, Del. .... 



Redfiei.d, J. II. Notes on Corema Conradii ...... 



Pilsbry, II. A. The Radula in Rhipidoglossate Mollusks .... 



Ford, John. Remarks on Oliva inflata, Chem., O. irisans, Lam. and other specie 



of shells ............ 



Ryder, John A. On the fore and aft poles, the axial differentiation and a possible 



anterior sensory apparatus of Volvox minor ....... 



Heilprin, ANGELO. On some new species of Mollusca from the Bermuda Islands 



(Plate VIII.) 



Ives, T- E. On a new genus and two new species of Ophiurans 



Stone, Witmer. Catalogue of the Muscicapidae in the Collection of the Academy 



of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ...... 



Ryder, John A. Heterocercy in Botrachia , 



Ryder, John A. The hypertrophied hairs on Ampelopsis 



Wingate, Harold. Notes on Enteridium Rozeanum .... 



Morrison, Willard L. A review of the American Species of Priacanthidae 



Goldsmith, Edward. Gadolinite from Llano Co., Texas 



Safford, J. M. and A. W. Vogdes. Description of new species of fossil Crustacea 



from the Lower Silurian of Tennessee, with remarks on others not well known 

 Ives, J. E. Catalogue of the Asteroidea and Ophiuroidea in the collection of the 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ..... 



McCook, Henry C. Note on the true systematic position of the Ray Spider . 

 KOENIG, Geo. A. Chloanthite, Nicolite, De Saulesite, Annabergite, Tephrowille 



mite, Fluorite and Aquatite from Franklin, N. J 



Wingate, Harold. The spores of the Myxomycetes 



Wingate, Harold. Note on Orthotricha 



PlLSBRY, H. A. Nomenclature and Check-List of North American Land Shells 

 Scott, W. B. Notes on the osteology and systematic position of Dinictis felina 



Leidy 



Kirsch, Philip H. and Morton W. Fordice. A review of the American Species 

 of Sturgeons (Acipenseridse.) ....... 



Kirsch, Philip H. A review of the European and American Uranoscopidoe or 



Star-Gazers 



Baker, Frank C. Notes on the food of birds ...... 



Baker, Frank C. Remarks upon the Round-tailed Muskrat, Neobiber Alleni, True 



Dall, W. H. Notes on the Anatomy of Pholas (Barnea) costata Linne, and 



Zirphsea crispata Linne ........ 



PlLSBY, H. A. On the Anatomy of Aerope and Zin^is. (Plate IX.) 

 Wingate, HARdLD. Orcadella operculata Wing., a new Myxomycete 

 Keyes, Charles R. Lower Carbonic Gasteropoda from Burlington, Iowa. 

 Ki.vES, Charles R. The American species of Polyphemopsis 

 KEYES, CHARLES R. Sphxrodoma : a genus of fossil Gasteropods 



129 



129 

 130 

 134 

 135 



136 



137 

 138 



141 



143 



146 

 155 

 155 

 156 

 159 

 164 



166 



169 

 180 



184 

 188 

 189 

 191 



211 



245 



258 

 266 

 271 



274 

 277 

 280 

 284 

 299 

 303 




PROCEEDINGS 



Itfltkmjr 4 %Ml 



m\tt% 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART III OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 18 89. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA : 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1890. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part I of Volume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issued — 1847 to 1884. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to 

 subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains " The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M. D., LL. D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1S56, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30.. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January -1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1880), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3^ 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871 

 (of which nineteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1889), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865 — 71. Seven vols., Svo. Containing- 2,500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred aud fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



BOOKS IFOIR, SALE. 



The Academy has the following works for. sale at the prices affixed: 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830—34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840 — 44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 



2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with colored 



Plates, $25 ; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid.e (Melauians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American AVriters on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Pajiers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



By Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr., $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine, lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellfrs — All the publications of the Society will be supplied to 

 Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



March, iSgo. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mrs. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences in trust the sum of $2,500.00, to be known as the Hayden 

 Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her husband the 

 late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden, M. D., LL. D. According to the 

 terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of the interest 

 arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the best pub- 

 lication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences of geology 

 and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof as may be 

 designated. The award and all matters connected therewith are 

 to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appropriate 

 manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to 

 American naturalists. 




CONTENTS. 



Keyes, Charles R. Sphrerodoma: a genus of fossil Gasteropods (Continued). 

 Meyer, Abraham. Notes on the presence of Umbral or Mountain Limestone in 



Lycoming Co., Penna. ............ 



Horn, H. Geo., M. D. The Antennre of Coleoptera 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. On the taxonomic value of the Wing Membranes and of 



the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits in the Cheiroptera. (Plate X). 

 Marx, Geo., M. D. On a new species of Spider of the genus Dinopis from the 



Southern United States. (Plate XI). 



Redfield, John H. Note on Pinus Banksiana 



Ives, J. E. Mimicry of the Environment in Pter'ophryne histrio. .... 



Ford, John. Notes on Crepidula ' . 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Activity in Donax. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Change of Habit causing Change of Structure. 

 Gardiner, John, and L. J. K. Brace. Provisional List of the Plants of the Bahama 



Islands. ........ 



Rand, Theo. D. Notes on the drift on Block Island. 

 Pilsbry, H.*A. New and Little-known American Mollusks, No. 2. 

 Brinton, Daniel G., M. D. On a Petroglyph from the Island of St 

 Brown, Arthur Erwin. Description of a new species of Eutaenia 

 Report of the Recording Secretary. .... 



Report of the Corresponding Secretary. 



Report of the Librarian. ...... 



Report of the Curators. ...... 



Report of Biological and Microscopical Section. 



Report of the Conchological Section. 



Report of the Entomological Section. 



Report of the Botanical Section. . . 



Report of the Mineralogical and Geological Section. 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology. 



Report of the Professor of Ethnology and Archeology 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Zoology 



Report of the Treasurer. . 



Officers to serve during 1890. 



PAGE. 

 305 



310 

 311 



313 



341 

 344 



344 

 :!45 



Elections of Members and Correspondents 

 Additions to the Museum. . , 



Additions to the Library. 

 Index to Genera. .... 

 General Index. .... 



(Plate XII). . 

 Vincent, W. I. 



347 



349 

 408 

 411 

 417 

 421 

 423 

 425 

 426 

 429 

 432 

 433 

 434 

 435 

 438 

 439 

 440 

 440 

 442 

 444 

 444 

 446 

 450 

 483 

 494 








