



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 





1896. 



COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION: 



Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D., George H. Horn, M. D. , 



Harrison Allen, M. D. 



Editor : EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 



1896. 

 41 




M3C 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



February 6, 1896. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings of the 

 Academy for 1895 have been presented at the meetings of the Academy 

 as follows : — 



LEVYTYPE CO., ENGRAVERS AND PRINTERS, PHILA. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Baldwin, D. D. Descriptions of new Species of Achatinellidse 



from the Hawaiian Islands (Plates X and XI) 214 



Cockerell, T. D. A. Some new Bees of the Genus Perdita ... 11 

 Ellis, J. B. Notes on some specimens of Pyrenomycetes in the 



Schweinitz Herbarium of the Academy 20 



Ellis, J. B., and B. M. Everhart. New Species of Fungi from 



various localities 413 



Foote, Warren M. Preliminary Note on a new Alkali Mineral . 408 



Fowke, Gerard. Archaeological Work in Ohio 506 



Fox, William J. Synopsis of the Stizini of Boreal America . . 264 

 Synopsis of the Bembicini of Boreal America (Plate XIV) . 351 

 Synopsis of the North American Species of Gorytes Latr. . . 517 

 Greene, Edward L. Eclogse Botanicaj, No. 2. I. Some new 



Western Plants ; II. Revision of Tropidocarpum 546 



Gwatkin, H. M., and Henry Sutor. Observations on the Den- 

 tition of Achatinellidffi 237 



Harris, Gilbert D. New and otherwise interesting Tertiary 



Mollusca from Texas (Plates I-IX) 45 



Holm, Theo. Contributions to the Flora of Greenland 543 



Johnson, C. W., and D. W. Coquillet. Diptera of Florida, with 



additional descriptions of new Genera and Species .... 303 

 Keller, Ida A. The Jelly-like secretion of the fruit of Peltandra 



undulata (Plate XII) 287 



Notes on the Study of the Cross-fertilization of Flowers by 



Insects 555 



Kennedy, William. The Eocene Tertiary of Texas east of the 



Brazos River 89 



Meehan, Thomas. Memoir of John Howard Redfield 292 



Moore, J. Percy. Notes on American Enchytraeidre. I. New 



Species of Fridericia from the vicinity of Philadelphia 



(Plate XIII) 341 



Morris, Charles. The Extinction of Species 253 



Nolan, Edw. J., M.D. A. biographical notice of W. S. W. 



Ruschenberger, M. D 452 



/ ^ 337 




Ortrnann, Arnold E. A Study of the systematic and geographic- 

 Distribution of the Decapod Family Crangonidre Bate . . 173 

 Pilsbry, Henry A. On the Status of the Names Aplysia and 



Tethys . 347 



Pilsbry, H. A., and E. G. Vanatta. New Species of the 



Genus Cerion 206 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Descriptions of new Mammals from Florida 



and Southern California 32 



New Subspecies of the Gray Fox and Say's Chipmunk ... 42 

 Notes on the Varying Hares of Washington and British 



Columbia, with descriptions of a new Subspecies 241 



Distribution of the American Bison in Pennsylvania, with 



remarks on a new fossil Species ' 244 



Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee. No. 1, Reptiles 



and Batrachians 376 



Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee. No. 2, Birds . . 463 

 Ryder, John A. An arrangement of the Retinal Cells in the 



Eyes of Fishes partially simulating Compound Eyes . . . 161 

 The true Nature of the so-called "Nettle-Threads " of Para- 



mcecium 167 



Scott, W. B. Protoptychus Hatcheri, a new Rodent from the 



Uinta Eocene 269 



Starks, Edwin Chapin. Description of a new Genus and Species 



of Cottoid Fishes from Puget Sound 410 



Stone, Witmer. The Priority of the names Calliste, Aglaia and 



Calospiza and their use in Ornithology . 251 



List of Birds collected in North Greenland by the Peary 

 Expedition of 1891-2 and the Relief Expedition of 1892. . 502 

 Walter, Emma. Does the Delaware Water Gap consist of Two 



River Gorges ? 198 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1895. 



January 1. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to serve during the current year : — 



On Library. — W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D., Henry C. 

 Chapman, M. D. , Charles P. Perot, George Vaux, Jr., and Dr. C. 

 Nevvliu Peirce. 



On Publications. — John H. Redfield, Charles E. Smith, 

 Thomas Meehan, George H. Horn, M.D., and Edw. J. Nolan, M.D. 



On Instruction and Lectures. — Charles Morris, Benjamin 

 Sharp, M.D., Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., George A. Rex, M.D., and 

 Uselma C. Smith. 



Standing Committee of Council on By-Laws. — W. S. W. 

 Ruschenberger, M.D., Theodore D. Rand, William Sellers, and 

 Isaac J. Wistar. 



2 




10 proceedings of the academy of [1895. 



January 8. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Twenty- six persons present. 



January 15. 

 Dr. Samuel G. Dixon in the Chair. 



Eighty- nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "On some new and otherwise interesting Tertiary 

 Mollusca from Texas," by Gilbert D. Harris, was preseD ted for pub- 

 lication. 



Charles Lester Leonard, M.D., made a communication on a 

 new method of studying cell motion as exemplified in the red and 

 white blood corpuscles. (No abstract.) 



January 22. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair. 



Twenty- eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"Notes on Specimens of Pyrenomycetes in the Schweinitz Her- 

 barium of the Academy," by J. B. Ellis. 



"Description of new Mammals from California and Florida," 

 by S. N. Rhoads. 



The deaths of Robert H. Lamborne and Wm. G. Moorehead, 

 members, were announced. 



January 29. 

 Dr. C. Newlin Peirce in the Chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



R. Shirley Borden and Frank Haimbach were elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



SOME NEW BEES OF THE GENUS PERDITA. 

 BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



In Cresson'*s catalogue of 1887, there are given thirteen species of 

 Perdita, four of which, however, are considered only doubtfully 

 referable to the genus. Of these species 2 are from Col., 2 Cala., 

 2 Nev., 1 Tex., 1 Col., Nev., 1 Col., Tex., N. Mex., 1 Ga., 1 U. 

 S., IN. Am. Lately, Mr. Fox has described three from Lower 

 California. The opinion, which might have been derived from these 

 facts, that the genus is specially characteristic of the arid region, is 

 strengthened by the information given below. Without any special 

 search for the genus, the writer has discovered ten new species in 

 New Mexico during the season of 1894, though one of them had 

 previously been captured by Prof. Townsend. 



Mr. Fox, to whom I am very greatly indebted for comparing the 

 types with those of Cresson, has suggested the preparation of a 

 synoptic table. This, however, is deferred for the present, as it is 

 confidently expected that more new species will be found when they 

 are systematically looked for next year. 



The specific differences offered by these bees present a very in- 

 teresting problem to the Darwinian, and it is hoped to dwell at 

 some length on this phase of the subject hereafter. But attention 

 may be called to the peculiar and apparently constant (within nar- 

 row limits) markings of the face, which seem to fall under Wallace's 

 class of "recognition marks." 



All of the bees now described appear to me to be congeneric in 

 the strictest sense. It has not been thought necessary to mention in 

 each description those characters which run throughout the series ; 

 it is assumed that anyone using the descriptions has made himself 

 familiar with the generic type. 



With regard to the extent of the pale markings on the face, the 

 New Mexican species of Perdita form a series thus : — 



Semierocea -f phymatce -+■ sexmaculata, hyalina, albipennis, albovit- 

 tata, austini, canina, nitidella -+- foxi, martini, luteola. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The known distribution of the species in New Mexico is thus : — 



(1.) Mesilla valley, about 3,800 ft. above tide. — Hijalina, albipen- 

 nis, phymatce, martini, semicrocea, lateola, nitidella, austini.=S spp. 



(2.) San Augustine, on east side of Organ Mts. — Albovittata.= 

 1 sp. 



(3.) Santa Fe, about 7,000 ft. above tide. — Sexmaculata, canina, 

 foxi.=3 spp. 



Thus the species of each locality are different. 



P. luteola has been described in another paper ; it is easily known 

 by its entirely yellow color. The other new species are described 

 herewith. All the types are now in Coll. Amer. Ent. Society. 



Perdita phymatae n. sp. 9. 



About 4£ mm. long: head and thorax shining olive- green, scutel- 

 lum bluish, metathorax green. Abdomen shining piceous. 



Face without pale marks ; mandibles brown ; antennae dark brown, 

 last four joints of flagellum pale brown beneath. Crown of head 

 finely punctured. A distinct ridge between antennae, replaced pos- 

 teriorly by a groove, which extends to the middle ocellus. A short, 

 shallow groove near and parallel with inner margin of eye. 



Thorax very finely punctured, with a few scattered pale hairs. 

 Metathorax with a distinct fovea. 



Abdomen piceous, sparsely clothed with pale hairs at tip. 



Legs dark brown; wings hyaline, iridescent, venation brown. 



Recognized among the species with a dark face, by its dark brown 

 abdomen and legs. 



Hab. — The type was taken out of the clutches of an example of 

 Phymata fasciata Gray, at Las Cruces, N. M. , on the campus of the 

 Agricultural College, beginning of October. (Ckll., 2,492.) The 

 Phymata was on yellow (Composite) flowers, which it deceptively 

 resembles in color. 



Mr. Fox remarks that semicrocea, martini, sexmaculata, and phy- 

 matce are "all good and so distinct as to scarcely require comparison." 



Perdita sexmaculata n. sp. 9. 



About 5 mm. long : head and thorax shining indigo-blue; clypeus, 

 mesothorax, and scutellum black; prothorax slightly greenish in 

 some lights, in others blue. Ends of mandibles rufous. Scape black ; 

 flagellum dark brown, paler beneath. Face and clypeus with dis- 

 tinct but very sparse punctures. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



Thorax smooth and very sparsely punctured, except the blue 

 metathorax, which appears rough from extremely minute and close 

 punctures — one should say rugulose rather thrfh punctured. 



Abdomen piceous, shiny, apex with pale hairs. Sides of 2d, 3d, 

 and 4th segments with a large, pale yellow spot or blotch. First 

 segment with a deep longitudinal groove extending from its base to 

 a little beyond its middle. 



Metathorax with a distinct fovea. A groove near front margin of 

 eye as in phymatcv. Legs dark brown, tips of anterior femora, an- 

 terior tibia? beneath, and anterior tarsi, yellow. Wings hyaline, 

 iridescent, venation brown. 



Recognized among the species with a dark face, by the piceous 

 abdomen with six yellow spots, and the not entirely brown legs. 



Hab.— Santa Fe, N. M., July 25th. (Ckll., 1,647.) 



Perdita semicrocea n. sp. 9. 



About 4 mm. long : head and thorax black, with a bronze-green 

 tint in certain lights. Thorax sparsely punctured, vertex of head 

 finely rugulose. 



Face wholly dark ; antennae brown, flagellum yellowish beneath. 

 Cheeks behind eyes with white hairs. Metathorax finely rugulose. 



Abdomen above orange, deepening in tint towards apex ; first seg- 

 ment mostly fuscous, second with an ill-defined fuscous band along its 

 sides and hind margin, third with rudiments of such a band. Under 

 side of abdomen orange. 



Legs with coxse and femora, except at ends, dark. Ends of 

 femora, and whole of tibise and tarsi of anterior and middle legs 

 primrose-yellow ; corresponding parts of hind legs brownish. 



Wings hyaline, veins colorless, stigma pale lemon-yellow. Third 

 discoidal cell distinct. 



Recognized among the species with a dark face, by its orange 

 abdomen. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M. , on yellow (Composite) flowers on cam- 

 pus of N. M. Agric. College, beginning of October. (Ckll., 2,500.) 



Perdita austini n. sp. <?. 



About 3j mm. long: head and thorax shining black, head with a 

 slight greenish, metathorax with a bluish tinge. Crown of head 

 very finely granular. White hairs on head and thorax sparse. 

 Tegula? canary-yellow. Clypeus yellow with a minute black dot on 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



each side; sides of face, in front of eyes, yellow, the yellow extend- 

 ing upward about the length of scape above the level of insertion of 

 antenna?. Scape yellow, funicle and flagellum yellowish below and 

 above brownish below. 



Abdomen shining, smooth, with a very few hairs near apex ; sepia 

 brown, with broad, yellow bands (not reaching the lateral margin 

 on second segment) occupying the anterior halves of the 2d, 3d, and 

 4th segments, with another obscurely indicated at hind margin of 

 4th. The bands are somewhat suffused, not clean cut, at their edges. 



Underside of abdomen yellow, brownish towards the tip. Legs 

 yellow and black. Anterior tibia? and tarsi canary-yellow, femora 

 yellow with a black blotch on inner side, and mostly black without. 

 Middle legs duller, femora mostly black, tibise partly so. Hind legs 

 with femora and tibia? black except their ends, tarsi darkened. 



Wings hyaline ; stigma almost, veins quite, colorless. Third dis- 

 coidal absent. 



Recognized among the species with partly yellow face by the 

 yellow extending above level of insertion of antenna? along the 

 margin of the eyes but not in the median line, and by the small size 

 and suffused tints. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., on campus of N. M. Agric. Coll., 

 September. (CklL, 2,398.) 



Mr. Fox writes of austini that it is " near zebrata but differs by the 

 more slender legs, 2d submarginal cell narrower at the top; the head 

 retreats more rapidly behind the eyes. It differs principally from 

 ventralis by this latter character." 



Perdita martini n. sp. d ■ 



About 4 mm. long; head and thorax dark metallic-blue 

 moderately hirsute with white hairs. Crown very finely punctured. 

 Face up to level of anterior ocellus, including clypeus, entirely pale 

 primrose-yellow ; except for a black dot close to anterior margin of 

 eye on each side, as far from nearest lateral ocellus as that is from 

 the opposite lateral one. 



Antenna? pale primrose-yellow, and with first 8 joints of flagellum 

 above largely dark brown. Cheeks below middle of eyes pale yellow. 



Thorax, except the minutely roughened metathorax, sparsely 

 punctured. 



Prothorax pale primrose-yellow with a median transverse metallic- 

 blue band. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



Abdomen with about equally broad bands of pale yellow and 

 piceous, the piceous bands being at base of 1st, at junction of 1st 

 and 2d, at distal margin of 2d and 3d, at junction of 4th and 5th, 

 and at distal margin of 5th segment. 



Legs primrose-yellow, posterior tibiae and femora more or less 

 fuscous above. Wings hyaline, venation extremely pale; outer 

 margin of 3d discoidal very faint. 



Abdomen beneath entirely yellow, tip tinged with orange. 



Recognized among the species with partly yellow face, by the yellow 

 extending upwards to the level of the anterior ocellus, and the 

 almost entirely yellow legs. The face is practically all yellow. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., on the College Farm, April 26th. 

 (Ckll., 731.) 



I have ventured to name this and the next preceding after my two 

 little sons, the elder of whom has gone to the undiscovered country. 



Perdita albovittata n. sp. $. 



About 5£ mm. long; head and thorax shining dark indigo- blue, 

 with the white hairs more _ prominent than in sexmacnlata, forming 

 quite a conspicuous white pubescence on cheeks and face. Antennse 

 dark brown, paler, but still dark, towards their ends. Mandibles 

 brownish. Clypeus and a large patch on each side of it ivory-white; 

 clypeus with a blackish mark rather in the form of a horse-shoe, but 

 very faint medially and broadened laterally. 



Head rather sparsely punctate. Thorax very sparsely punctate. 

 Metathorax shiny, not roughened as in sexmacnlata. 



Abdomen piceous, with dense, rather coarse white hairs at tip. 

 1st segment with a deep groove, extending somewhat beyond its 

 middle. 2d and 3d segments each with a broad yellowish- white band, 

 4th with two bauds. Band on 2d segment narrowly interrupted 

 medially ; it is situated along the upper margin of the segment, 

 except at sides, where it bends hindward. Band on 3d segment 

 similar, but only constricted, not interrupted, medially. 1st band on 

 4th segment similar, but only notched medially on its hind margin, 

 broader, and evanescent at sides. 2d band on 4th segment placed 

 along its hind margin, straight, and evanescent at sides; it represents 

 the band of 5th segment pushed forward. 



Underside of abdomen piceous, with pale marks at sides, resem- 

 bling the upper side of abdomen of sexmacnlata considerably. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Legs black. Wings hyaline with a milky tint, iridescent. Vena- 

 tion pale brown. 



Recognized among the species with partly white face, by its denser 

 hairs on head and thorax, white bands on abdomen, and black legs. 



Hab.— San Augustine, N. M., August 29th. (Ckll., 2,270.) 

 Another example, from the same locality and taken on the same 

 day (Ckll., 2,277, a $ ), differs a little, having the dark marks on 

 clypeus reduced, mesothorax above very dark, slightly greenish, not 

 blue (metathorax and pleura blue), band of 2d segment of abdomen 

 constricted, not interrupted medially. 



Mr. Fox writes: " albovittata also very distinct by dark legs, im- 

 maculate pronotum and long marginal cell." 



Perdita nitidella n. sp. tf- 



About 4 mm. long; head and thorax greenish-blue. Face (in- 

 cluding clypeus) up to level of insertion of antennae bright yellow, 

 furthermore, the yellow extends as much beyond the insertion of the 

 antennae as the length of the scape, but is divided by two incursions 

 of the dark blue, which descend to the bases of the antennae, their 

 sides forming right angles thereat. Antennae yellow, funicle, flagel- 

 lum, and tip of scape more or less dark brown above. 



Head and thorax finely rugulose. Borders of prothorax, and 

 tegulae, yellow. Abdomen shiny, yellow, becoming darker towards 

 the tip, with dark brown bands. These bands are one at base of 

 1st segment and one at its distal border, these two connected by a 

 longitudinal median line; a broad one at distal border of 2d seg- 

 ment, bulging (especially posteriorly) in the middle; a linear one at 

 proximal border and a broad one at distal border of 3d segment, 

 and rather broad ones about the distal borders of 4th, 5th, and 6th 

 segments. 



Legs primrose-yellow, hind tibiae and tarsi brownish. 



Wings hyaline, iridescent, veins dark brown, 3d discoidal exces- 

 sively indistinct. 



Recognized among the species with partly yellow face, by the yel- 

 low extending over the whole of that portion of the face beneath the 

 level of the antennae, but not to the middle ocellus; by the yellow 

 legs ; and by the small size and shiny abdomen with yellow and 

 brown bands. 



Hab — Las Cruces, N. M., on the campus of the Agricultural 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



College, September. (Ckll., L',405.) Another specimen had previ- 

 ously been taken at Las duces, by Prof. C. H. T. Towusend. 



Mr. Fox writes: "rritidella is new, unless the $ of some known 

 species, which, however, I think unlikely." I do not myself enter- 

 tain any serious doubts as to the validity of the species. 



Perdita canina n. sp. &. 



About 5 mm. long ; head and* thorax dark metallic-blue, the 

 white pubescence moderately abundant. Crown of head minutely 

 granular, with punctures interspersed, showing that the granulations 

 do not represent minute punctures of the ordinary sort. 



Clypeus yellowish-white, this color extending upwards to level of 

 antennae and there abruptly truncate, with a slight indentation in the 

 middle. On each side this is touched by a heart-shaped spot situated 

 beneath the antenna?, the whole so placed as to suggest the head of 

 a hound, with drooping ears, seen from behind. A minute, black 

 dot on each side of clypeus, as in austini. Besides these markings 

 a narrowing band of yellow borders the eyes in front, coming to a 

 point a little above the level of the antenme. Antenna? yellow be- 

 neath and black above. 



Thorax shiny, sparsely punctured, tegulre pale yellow. 



Abdomen yellow and dark sepia- brown ; 1st segment brown; 2d 

 and 3d segments, with the disc broadly yellow, margined with brown, 

 this margin not covering the sides, which are yellow at the angles. 

 4th segment yellow with its upper margin brown, the brown extend- 

 ing hindward at the sides to about the middle of the segment. 

 Just below this brown margin, medially, is a minute dot of brown. 

 Hind margin of 4th segment narrowly brown, with a squarish brown 

 mark ou each side about half-way between lateral margin and cen- 

 tre. 5th segment yellow, very narrowly margined with brown above 

 at centre, and with a brown spot on each side near lateral margin, 

 and near hind margin a pair of brown marks representing the 

 squarish marks of previous segment. Remaining segments yellow. 

 Abdomen shiny, obscurely punctate. 



Legs yellow marked with black ; anterior femur and tibia each 

 with a black patch behind; middle femur with an oblique black 

 patch behind, middle tibia mostly black, middle tarsus pale brownish. 

 Hind femur with a large elongated black patch above, hind tibia 

 and tarsus blackish. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Wings hyaline, veins dark brown, stigma margined with brown, 

 3d discoidal very weak. 



Abdomen beneath yellow, the anterior margins of the segments 

 narrowly black. 



Hab.— Santa Fe, N. M. , July 19th. (Ckll., 1,572 and 1,571.) 



Mr. Fox writes: "canina may be the <?of zebrata, although I had 

 previously referred two S specimens, different from yours, to that 

 species. ' ' * 



There was taken, however, at Santa Fe (Ckll., 1,270, July 5th) 

 a specimen of which Mr. Fox writes: "No. 1,270 I had named as 

 P. albipennis, but I now find it differs from that species and is per- 

 haps the $ of canina." 



This example differs principally from canina ( $ ) by the face mark- 

 ings being white; the clypeus not entirely pale, but with the pale color 

 terminating on its upper half in three projections; the yellowish above 

 the clypeus represented by a pair of oval, white marks; the dog's-ear- 

 like marks absent ; the 1st segment of abdomen with a narrow in- 

 terrupted band, the bands on the other segments continuous in the 

 middle ; antennae darker; size larger. 



I think this is a distinct (and new) species, but it may be wiser to 

 leave it unnamed until its relationship with canina can be made 

 clearer. In P. albipennis, the sexes differ very much in the colora- 

 tion of the abdomen, but I find the face markings practically the 

 same in $ and 9 . Hence it seems likely that the dog's- head 

 markings are characteristic of canina in either sex. In its face mark- 

 ings, this 9 form is intermediate between canina and albipennis, but 

 quite different from both. 



Perdita foxi n. sp. j 1 . 



About 5 mm. long or slightly more ; head and thorax very dark 

 blue; face mostly yellow. Abdomen black. Legs rufous. The 

 white pubescence reduced to a minimum, though sufficiently evident, 

 if scattered, on the posterior tibia; and tip of abdomen. 



Head almost exactly circular; vertex finely roughened, clypeus 

 distinctly punctate. Mandibles large, canary-yellow inclining to 

 orange, with piceous tips. Clypeus cpjite prominent, canary-yellow 

 with a black dot on each side. In addition to the clypeus, the wdiole 

 of the face is canary-yellow up to the level of the insertion of the 

 antenme; the yellow at the sides, just before the eyes, extending still 

 further upward, in a broad band which is deeply notched at its ex- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



tremity, the termination of this band being about (or hardly) as far 

 above the level of the insertion of the antennae as the length of the 

 scape. Cheeks yellow. Antennae dull chrome-yellow, funicle and 

 flagellum blackened above. 



Thorax, seen from above, much the shape of a Goodale pear (see 

 Downing), metathorax abruptly truncate and rapidly descending, 

 rugulose. 



Lateral margin of prothorax yellow. Teguhe pale testaceous. 

 Legs pale rufous, or one might say brownish- orange. 



Wings hyaline, beautifully iridescent, veins and stigma distinct, 

 dark (sepia) brown. The recurrent and transverso-cubital nervures 

 more or less broken by hyaline spots. 3d discoidal distinct. Mar- 

 ginal about as long as stigma. 



Abdomen pitch-black, shiny, hind margins of 3d and 4th seg- 

 ments obscurely brownish. 



Recognized by its black abdomen and orange- rufous legs; nearest 

 to nitldella in its face markings, but still quite distinct. 



.Ha&.— Santa Fe, N. M., June 25th. (Ckll., 1,096.) 



Mr. Fox remarks that this is "very distinct and new." I owe to 

 him the opportunity of describing it, as I had sent it to him before I 

 became interested in the genus, and he kindly returned it that it 

 might be included in the present paper. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



NOTES ON SOME SPECIMENS OF PYKENOMYCETES IN THE SCHWEINITZ 

 HERBARIUM OF THE ACADEMY. 



BY J. B. ELLIS. 



Some time during the past year (1894) there was found in the 

 Herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, a 

 package that had lain unnoticed for many years. The package 

 was found to contain many of the missing specimens mentioned in 

 the preface to The North Am. Pyrenomycetes. These specimens are 

 evidently authentic and reliable, the writing on the papers in which 

 they are wrapped being in Schweinitz's own hand, with the 

 abbreviation L. v. S. 1 after the names of the species described by him. 

 In only a few cases are the habitats given, but almost all are 

 marked as collected either at Bethlehem, Pa., or Salem, N. C. 

 They are all very small — many of them old and without fruit. 



From a careful examination of the specimens the following notes 

 were made to enable one to recognize some of the Schweinitzian 

 species that have hitherto been only imperfectly understood. Dr. 

 Karl Starback in his " Studier i Elias Fries Svamparherbarium:" 

 Bihang till K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., Band 19, Afd. Ill, No. 

 2, 1894, has also examined some of the specimens noted and his 

 observations agree with those here recorded: — 



Chaetomium olivaceum C. & E., Grev., VI, p. 96. 

 Sphczria Douglas ii Schw., in Herb. Schw. 



On dead herbaceous stems. Shores of Lake Huron (Prof. Doug- 

 las). Comm. Dr. Torrey. 



Venturia cincinnata Fr., Sunim. Veg. Scand., p. 405. 

 Sphcsria cincinnata Fr., S. M., II, p. 451. 



Perithecia clustered, ovate- globose, 150// diarn., clothed with 

 black, spreading spines 25-40 x 4-5,".. Asci subsessile, clavate-cylin- 

 drical, 40-50 x 8-10//., paraphysate. The specc. were not fully ma- 

 ture and the sporidia could not be accurately made out. 



On the lower surface of leaves of Vaccinium. Bethlehem, Pa. 

 (Schw.). 



1 L. v. S. is the abbreviation used by Schweinitz to indicate his name : 

 Ludovicus von Schweinitz. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Lasiosphaeria setosa (Schw.). 



Sphceria setosa Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,533. 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial, ovate- couical, about f mm. high 

 and h mm. broad, clothed except the black, entire or subsulcate, ob- 

 tuse ostiolum, with tuberculiform tufts of matted hairs among which 

 arise other, darker, longer hairs. Asci elongated, narrowed above, 

 short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, 100-120 x 12-15//. Sporidia 

 biseriate, cylindrical, hyaline, nucleate, curved near the lower end, 

 45-55 x 4-5/;.; about the same as in L. hirsuta. 



On rotten wood, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw.). 



Lasiosphaeria emergens (Schw.). 



Sphceria emergens Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,534. 



Mycelium of brown, branching threads septate and undulate, bear- 

 ing terminally (and laterally)? yellowish-brown, globose conidia 12- 

 15// diam. with coarsely granular contents. Sporidia nearly straight, 

 cylindrical, hyaline, 28-32 x 4//, apparently becoming 3-septate. 



Differs from L. Rhacodium in its ovate- conical perithecia. 



Chaetosphaeria squamulata (Schw.). 



Sphceria squama/a Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,538. 



Melanomma squamulata E. & E., N. A. Pyr., p. 184. 



Sphceria squamata in Herb. Schw. 



Chcetosphceria squamulata Starbiick, Studier i Elias Fr. Svamp. Herb., p. 31. 



When the N. A. P. was published we had not seen an authentic 

 spec, of this species, which is accurately described by Starbiick, I.e., 

 the description there given applying perfectly to the spec, in Herb. 

 Schw. This spec, however, is labeled Sphceria "squamata" L. v. S., 

 instead of squamulata as given in Syn. N. Am. with the added note 

 "olim S. fuscospora." 



Herpotrichia diffusa (Schw.) var. rhbdomphala B. & C. 



Sphceria diffusa Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,502. 



Splncria rhodomphala Berk. Hook., Lond. Journ. Bot., IV, p. 212. Sph. tris- 

 tis in Herb. Schw. 



Ampin 'sphceria subiculosa E. & E., Journ. Mycol., II, p. 103. 



Neopeckia diffusa Starbiick, Stud, i Elias Fries Svamp. Herb., Vet. Akad 

 Haudl., 1894. 



Didymotrichia diffusa Berlese, in the Proc. of the International Bot. Con- 

 gress, 1S92. 



The specc. distributed in Ell. & Evrht's N. A. F., 2,130, differ 

 from the Schweiuitzian spec, in having the perithecia smaller (about 

 f mm.), and less crowded, and in their rather smaller, less distinctly 

 constricted sporidia. These differences, however, seem hardly to be 

 of specific value, all the other characters being the same, and it seems 




22 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



better to put the N. A. F. specc. as a mere var. of that in Herb. 

 Schw., viz., var. rhodomphala Berk. Sphceria rhodomphala Berk., 1. c. 



Rosellinia araneosa (Pers. ). 



Sphceria araneosa Pers., Icon, et descr., 1, p. 24, tab. VII, fig. 6, a-h. 

 Rosellinia araneosa Sacc, Syll., I, p. 259. 



Perithecia crowded in elongated groups \— 1 cm. long, 3-4 mm. 

 wide, globose, papillate, | mm. diam. Sporidia (free spores) in- 

 equilaterally elliptical, brown, continuous, 7-9 x 5-6//. 



Has the external aspect of Rosellinia medullaris (Wallr. ), from 

 which it differs in its rather smaller perithecia and very different 

 sporidia. 



Rosellinia thelena Fr., var. terrestris. 

 Sphceria terrestris Schw. in Herb. 



Perithecia depressed- globose, grayish-brown, smooth, with a dis- 

 tinct papilliform ostiolum, gregarious, or crowded, about I mm. 

 diam., connected at base by a thin, brown subiculum of matted 

 hairs. Asci (p. sp.) 130 x 6//, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 overlapping-uniseriate, oblong - fusoid, deep brown, continuous, 

 straight, 22-25 x 5-7/*, with a straight, hyaline, mucronate append- 

 age at each end. 



On the ground, New York State (Schw.). 



Melanomma exile (Schw.). 

 Sphceria exile, Schw. in Herb. Schw. 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, black, minute, 120- 



150// diam., finally slightly collapsed. Ostiolum conic- papilliform. 



The asci could not be made out but sporidia (free spores), were 



abundant, oblong- elliptical, 13-16 x 5-6//, 3-septate and brown, 



occasionally with one or two cells divided by a longitudinal septum. 



The subiculum (arachnoid, whitish) is hardly perceptible. The 



perithecia, if pilose at all, are very indistinctly so. 



Rosellinia medullaris (Wallr.). 



Sphceria medullaris Wallr., Fl. Crypt. Germ., II, p. 792. 



The spec, in Herb. Schw. labeled Sphwria mammiformis is this 

 species. The perithecia are too small for B. mammiformis, and dis- 

 tinctly ovate. The purplish pruinose pubescence is also distinctly 

 to be seen. Sporidia oblong or oblong-elliptical, often subinequi- 

 lateral, 18-22 x 8-10//. 



Rosellinia rhodomela (Schw. J, not Fr. 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial, minute (200//), ovate or sub. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



globose, with a papilliform ostiolum soon perforated, seated on a red 

 subicnlurn and clothed with a thin, dirty rose-colored, pulveraceo- 

 tomentose coat. The mycelium is very thin and scanty and the 

 wood is stained red in the part occupied by the perithecia. The 

 substance of the perithecia themselves also has a reddish tint. Asci 

 cylindrical, p. sp. 68-75 x 8//, short-stipitate, 8-spored, paraphy- 

 sate. Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical or subglobose, opake, 8-12 x 

 5-7/*. 



Rosellinia imposita Schw. 



Sphceria imposita Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,503. 



This differs from R. aquila only in the scanty subiculum. 



Sporidia oblong, continuous, brown, 18-24 x 6-8/./.. 



Ceratostomella investita (Schw.). 



Sphceria investita Schw., in Herb. Fries. 

 Sphceria investita in Schw. Syn. N. Am., 1,621? 

 Sphceria vestita Schw., in Herb. Schw. 

 Ceratostomella investita Starbiick, 1. c. 



Perithecia gregarious, immersed, or partly superficial, 400//diam., 

 beset around the lower part with slender, black, septate hairs 80-120 

 x 3fi, and pubescent with shorter, finer hairs above. Ostiola cylin- 

 drical, 1 mm. or more long, erumpent through a felt-like brownish- 

 yellow tomentum overspreading the surface of the wood. 



Asci cylindrical, 60-65 x 6-7//, with a short stipe, p. sp. 50-60// 

 long. Paraphyses none. Sporidia uniseriate, or subbiseriate above, 

 oblong-elliptical, 6-8 x 3?//, hyaline, 2-nucleate. 



There can be no doubt that this is the same as the spec, examined 

 by Starbiick, in Herb. Fries, but it does not agree entirely with the 

 diagnosis given by Schweinitz, as the ostiola are not "sulcate-tuber- 

 culose," nor are they " thickened above. " The spec, from Herb. 

 Schw. was labeled " Sphceria vestita" L. v. S., and was on rotten 

 wood, Bethlehem Pa., "vestita" being apparently a lapsus calami 

 for investita. 



Amphisphaeria papilla (Schw.). 



Sphceria papilla Schw., Syn. Car., 159. 

 Melanopsamma papilla (Schw.), N. A. Pyr., p. 17S. 



Perithecia conic- hemispherical, with the base slightly sunk in the 

 wood, f-1 mm. diam. with a distinct conic- papilliform ostiolum. Asci 

 cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, p. sp. 100-120 x 12-15//.. 

 Sporidia overlapping- uniseriate, fusoid- oblong, subinequilateral, 

 brown, uniseptate, slightly constricted, 25-32 x 8-1 2,u. 



On rotten wood, Bethlehem, Pa. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



This has the outward appearance of the specc. on white oak bark, 

 mentioned in N. A. Pyr. , p. 178, but the asci and sporidia are 

 smaller, and the latter are brown. Notwithstanding these discrep- 

 ancies, the Newfield specc. are no doubt referable to Sphceria papilla 

 Schw. 



Trematosphseria mastoidea (Fr. ). 



Starback, 1. c, gives as syn. of this species: Sphceria albicans 

 Schw., Syn. Car., 176, and Sphceria obtecta, Schw., Syn. Car., 206. 



The spec, in Herb. Schw. is entirely without fruit. 



Sphceria denudans Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,625, is appai'ently a 

 Trematosphceria, but the spec, in Herb. Schw. is old, and the peri- 

 thecia mostly broken down. A few free spores were seen, oblong, 

 dark brown, 3- septate, 20-22 x 7-8//. 



Trematosphseria applanata (Fr. ). 



Sphceria applanata Fr., S. M., II, p. 463 (in part at least). 

 Sphceria applanata Oudern., Anwinst. Myc. Neder., 1875-1876, p. 11. 

 Sphceria Aspergrenii Fr., in Herb. Schw. 

 Trematosphceria applanata Sacc, Syll., II, p. 120. 



From the spec, in Herb. Schw. the following diagnosis has been 

 made: — 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, depressed-hemispherical, 

 170-200;/. diam., becoming more or less collapsed above, with a 

 papilliform ostiolum. Asci oblong-cylindrical, short- sti pi tate, p. 

 sp. 75-80 x 18-22//, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia obliquely 

 uniseriate, or biseriate, clavate- oblong, 4-5- (mostly 4-) septate, 

 and finally constricted at the septa, 24-30 x 7-9//, surrounded with 

 a hyaline envelope. 



This is certainly different from Trematosphceria, applanata (Fr.), 

 Fckl. Symbolse Myc, p. 162, N. Am. Pyr., p. 206, which is an 

 Amphisphceria, having uniseptate sporidia broader below, while this 

 has 4-5-septate sporidia narrower below. Apparently it is the same 

 as that described by Oudemans, 1. c, though he says nothing of the 

 hyaline envelope, which is very distinct in the Schweinitzian spec. 



Trematosphaeria astroidea (Fr. )? 



Sphceria astroidea Fr. ? (in Herb. Schw.). 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial ovate-globose, black, with a few, 

 short, spreading, bristle- like hairs around the base. Ostiolum 

 minute, acutely conical. Asci not seen. Sporidia oblong-fusoid, 

 3-4-septate, pale brown, 12-15 x 3-3 h>- 



On rotten wood, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schweinitz). 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Trematosphaeria confertula (Schw. ). 



Sphesria confertula Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,508. 



Perithecia densely crowded, seated on a felt-like brown subiculum 

 and clotbed below with straight, septate, bristle- like brown hairs, 

 globose, about i mm. diam., finally collapsing to cup-shaped. Asci 

 clavate-eylindrical, stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, p. sp. 60-67 x 

 12//. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, slightly curved, hyaline and uni- 

 septate at first, becoming brown and 3-septate but not constricted, 

 18-22x6-7// 



Whether this is the same as Amphisperia conferta Schw., in N. A. 

 P., p. 206, is doubtful. The spec, referred to in Syn. Car. was on 

 bark of Sassafras, and is described as having the perithecia depressed 

 at the apex, while in the Bethlehem spec, here described, they are 

 deeply collapsed. Dr. Cooke who examined a spec, from Carolina, 

 in Herb. Berk., found the sporidia uniseptate, 12 x 4//. Probably 

 the Carolina spec, is a different thing from the Bethlehem spec, 

 though Schweinitz in Syn. N. Am. considers them the same. 



On rotten wood, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw.). 



Trematosphaeria Schweinitzii E. & E. 



Perithecia gregarious, semiemergent or erumpent-superficial, \-$ 

 mm. diam. , ovate-conical, gradually attenuated above into the conical 

 or short-cylindrical ostiolum, or when erumpent, depressed- globose 

 with tuberculo-papilliform ostiolum, roughish and brownish-black. 

 Asci cylindrical, stipitate, paraphysate, p. sp. about 90 x 8-10,". 

 Sporidia overlapping-uniseriate, fusoid, brown, 3-septate and con- 

 stricted at the middle septum, the end cells attenuated to an obtuse 

 point and a little paler, 19-22 x 5-6//. 



On dead canes of Rabus, Bethlehem, Pa., Schw. (in Herb.), un- 

 der the name of Sphceria rostellata Fr. 



Teichospora tenacella (Fr.). 



Sphceria tenacella Fr., S. M., II. p. 492. 



Perithecia subseriate, semierumpent through longitudinal cracks 

 in the epidermis, subglobose, smooth, about J mm. diam., finally 

 collapsing above. Asci not seen. Sporidia oblong or oblong-ellip- 

 tical, brown, the end cells paler, 3-5 (mostly 3-) septate, with a 

 more or less continuous longitudinal septum, 20-26x10-11//.. In 

 the oblong sporidia there are mostly only the three transverse septa 

 with constrictions at each septum, but in the oblong- elliptical sporidia, 



3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



which make up the greater number, there is a single longitudinal 



septum and no constrictions. 



On small, dead limbs, Bethlehem, Pa., Schw. 



Amphisphseria nobilis (Schw.). 



Sphceria nobilis Schw. in Herb. Schw. 



Perithecia superficial, ovate- globose, black, 350-400," diam., 

 glabrous, with an acutely papilliform ostiolum. Asci clavate- 

 cylindrical, short- sti pi tate, paraphysate, 75-80x12-15,", 8-spored. 

 Sporidia crowded-biseriate, obloug-fusoid, slightly curved, obtuse, 

 brown, uniseptate, scarcely constricted, each cell with a large nucleus, 

 18-22 x 6-7/;. 



The base of the perithecia is only slightly sunk in the surface of 

 the wood, but there is nothing to indicate that they ever become 

 movable. 



On rotten wood, Salem, N. C. (Schw.). 



Lophiostoma tingens (Schw.). 



Sphceria tingens Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,591. 



Perithecia entirely buried in the wood, ovate-globose, about \ mm. 

 diam., subcompressed, neck flattened with the obtusely conical, sub- 

 tubercular, stout; ostiolum erumpent and only slightly compressed. 

 Asci clavate- cylindrical, short- sti pitate, 110-120 x 15-18//, 8-spored, 

 with abundant, filiform paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate or oblique, 

 broad-fusoid, hyaline, becoming brownish, 4-6- (mostly 5-) septate, 

 22-30 x 6-7,«. 



On decorticated, weather-beaten wood of Sassafras, Bethlehem, 

 Pa. 



This, of course, is very different from Lophidium tingens (Ell.), 

 in N. A. P., p. 235. 



Lophiostoma Spireeae (Schw.). 



Sphceria Spircece and Sphceria crenata Schw. in Herb. Schw. 

 Sphceria crenata Pers., var. Spircece Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,599. 

 Lophiostoma Spircece Pk. 28th Eep., p. 76. 



The diagnosis of Lophiostoma Spiraea, as given in N. Am. Pyr., 

 p. 232, fits the Schweinitzian specimen exactly. 



Sec. Schw. ; very common on dead branches of Spiraioz opulifolia, 

 Bethlehem, Pa., and Salem, N. C. 



Calosphaeria assecla (Schw.). 



Sphceria assecla Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,622. 

 Valsa pulchelloidea C. & E., Grev., VI, p. 92. 



The diagnosis of Calosphaeria pulchelloidea fits the Schweinitzian 

 specimen of Sphceria assecla Schw. perfectly. Valsa microtheca, C. 

 & E., 1. c, is hardly more than a scattered, dwarf form. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



Cryptosphaeria paetula (Fr.). 



Sphceria pcetula Fr., S. M., II, p. 483. 

 Sphceria secreta C. & E., Grev., V, p. 94. 



Crytosphceria secreta (C. & E.) Sacc, Syll., No. 688, and Ell. & Evrht., N. A. 

 Pyr., p. 514. 



The Schweinitziau spec, shows no asci, but the perithecia, habit, 



and sporidia are the same as in Sphceria secreta, C. & E. , leaving no 



doubt that the latter is the same as Sphceria pcetula (Fr. ) if, as 



seems probable, the spec, in Herb. Schw. is reliable. 



Pseudovalsa occulta (Schw.) 

 Sphceria occulta in Herb. Schw. 



Stroma cortical, orbicular, not circumscribed, 2-3 mm. diam., 

 convex. Perithecia 1-5 in a stroma, f-1 mm. diam., globose, their 

 bases slightly sunk in the surface of the wood, ascigerous nucleus 

 light colored. Ostiola obscure, erumpent in a small black disk, 

 which is orbicular or narrowly and transversely elliptical, slightly 

 raising and perforating the epidermis and closely embraced by it. 

 Asci broad clavate-cylindrical, 180-210 x 20-30// (including the 

 very short stipe, 8-spored, with filiform, sparingly branched or mostly 

 simple paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, broad-fusoid-oblong, obtuse, 

 3-septate, 45-62 x 13-16//, hyaline, becoming brownish. 



Differs from P. malbrancheana Sacc. in its 8-spored asci and only 



3-septate sporidia not hyaline at the ends. 



Diatrypella obscurata (Schw.). 



Sphceria obscurata Schw. (in Herb.). 



Perithecia large (f mm.), either lying singly, or 2-6 together in 



a subcuticular stroma 2-6 mm. diam., black and rough outside, 



white within, blackening the surface of the wood which is also deeply 



penetrated by a dark, circumscribing line enclosing several stromata. 



Asci clavate, 75-80 x 12-15//., p. sp. about 50//, long, polysporous. 



Sporidia irregularly crowded, yellow in the mass, hyaline when seen 



singly, allantoid, moderately curved, with a nucleus near each end, 



5-6 x 1}//. 



On limbs of some shrub or tree, Bethlehem, Pa. , Schw. 



Hypoxylon annulatum (Schw.) Mont. 



Sphceria annulata Schw. in litteris ad Fries. See Fr. Elench., II, p. 64. 



Sphceria annulata B. depressa Fr., 1. c. 



Sphceria truncata Schw. in litt. Fr. Elech., 1. c, but (sec. Fries) not Sphceria 



truncata Schw. in Syn. Car. 

 Hypoxylon amtulalum Mont., Syll. Crypt., p. 213. 



The spec, of Sphceria truncata Schw. from Herb. Schw. agrees 

 perfectly with specc. of Hypoxylon annulatum distributed in Ell. & 

 Evrht' sN. Am. Fungi, 2d Series, 2,353. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OB' [1895 



Phoma pyrina (Schw.). 

 Sphceria pyrina Schw. in Herb. Schw. 



Perithecia thickly scattered, subepidermal, small (} mm.), finally 

 rupturing the epidermis but not prominent. Sporules hyaline, com- 

 pressed; when viewed in front, ovate, 5-6 x 3// ; seen edgewise, allan- 

 toid, 5-6 x 1-1 t/i. 



On dead apple tree limbs, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw.). 



Phoma Samararum Desrn. 

 Sphceria Samarcr Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,703. 



On Samarse of Fraxinus, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw.). 

 Star back (1. c. ) also finds a Sphceropsis on the spec, of Sphceria 

 Samara',, in Herb. Fries. 



Phoma tageticola (Schw.). 



Sphceria tageticola Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,729. 

 Phoma herbarum, var. tageticola Starbiick, 1. c, p. 52. 



Perithecia aggregated or solitary, papillate, white inside, globose- 

 depressed. Sporules cylindrical, hyaline, 2-3- nucleate, obtuse, 8-12 

 x 2-3//. 



Vermicularia Cacti (Schw.). 



Sphceria Cacti Schw., Syn. Car., 227. 



Vermicularia Cacti (Schw.). Starback, 1. c, p. 63, with a full description. 



The specc. in Herb. Schw. are evidently a Vermicularia, but too 



poorly developed to allow of an accurate diagnosis. 



Sphaeropsis Taxi (Schw.). 



Sphceria Taxi Schw. in Herb. 

 Sphceropsis Taxi Berk., Outlines, p. 316. 

 Phoma 7a^'Sacc, Syll., Ill, p. 128. 



Perithecia subcuticular, small (200 mm.), finally perforated, the 

 papilliform ostiolum erumpent. Sporules oblong-elliptical, brown, 

 continuous, 17-20 x 8-10//. 



On dead leaves of Taxus, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw. ). 



Sphceria Taxi, Sow., sec. De Not. is a Diplodia. 



Sphaeropsis Schweinitzii E. & E. 

 Sphceria caulium Schw. (in Herb.). 



On dead herbaceous stems, Bethlehem, Pa., Schw. 



Perithecia erumpent-superficial, hemispherical, rough, \-\ mm. 

 diam. , with a papilliform ostiolum. Sporules oblong- elliptical, 

 brown, with a single large nucleus, 15-20 x 8-10//. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. - !l 



Sphaeropsis Sumaohi (Schw.) C. & E. 



Sphceria Sumac hi Scliw., Syn. N. Am.. 1,425. 



Spheeria subsolitaria Schw. in Herb. Schw. 



Sphceropsis Sumachi C. & E., Grev., V, p. 31, pi. 75, fig. 11. 



These are all pycnidia of Sphceria ambigxa Schw., Syn. N. Am., 

 1,492 = Botryosphosria fuliginosa (M. & N. ). See N. A. Pyr., p. 546. 



Sphaeropsis Ruboruni (Schw.). 



Sphceria Ruboruni Scliw., Syn. X. Am., 1,677. 

 Sphceropsis rubicola C. & E., Grev., VI, p. 2, pi. 95, fig. 2.. 



The spec, in Herb. Schw. affords no spores ; but Starbiick (1. c.) 

 finds specc. of Sphceria Ruborum Schw. in Herb. Fr. , which are 

 identical with specc. of Sphceropsis rubicola C. & E. 



Sphaeropsis pericarpii (Schw.). 



Sphceria pericarpii Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,590. 

 Sphceropsis pericarpii Pk. 25th Rep., p. 85. 

 Sphceropsis Carycc C. & E., Grev., V, p. 52? 

 Sphceria involucri Schw. in Herb. Schw.? 



On pericarp of hickory nuts, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw.), N. York 

 State (Peck), New Jersey (Ellis). 



In the Schweinitziau spec, of S. involucri, some of the sporules 

 are uuiseptate, but the greater uumber are without septa. The 

 sporules in all the above quoted specc. are about 20-25 x 10—12//. 



Discosia placentula (Schw.). 



Sphceria placentula Schw. in Herb. 



Discoid, orbicular, about \ mm. diam. , black, somewhat wrinkled, 

 umbilicate- depressed in the center, the papilliform ostiolum seated 

 in the center of the depression. Sporules oblong-cylindrical, slightly 

 curved, hyaline, faintly 4-nucleate, 10-13 x \\—%x, with an oblique, 

 hyaline, slender bristle at each end about as long as the spore itself. 



On some decaying leaf (Tilia)?, Bethlehem, Pa, (Schweinitz.). 



Sphceria fibriseda Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,542. 



Perithecia globose or oftener suboblong, 55-75//. diam., very 

 abundant but entirely sterile — no asci or sporidia. Apparently an 

 abortive Nectria. 



Sphceria viridiatra Schw., Syn. X. Am., 1,537. 



The perithecia are immature, but to all outward appearance, this 



is, as stated in N. A. P., p. 748, Calonectria chlorinella Cke. 



Sphceria palina Fr. (in Herb. Schw.). 



Cytispora exasperans E. & E. in Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phil., Xov. 1884, p. 

 360, is the same as this. 



Sec Starbiick, 1. c, p. 59, Sphceria palina Fr. , belongs to the 



Friesian genus Glutinium. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



"Perithecia loosely gregarious, cespitose or subconfluent, subglobose 

 at first, then erumpent-superficial, depressed- cylindrical, or almost 

 thick-discoid, with a large, irregular opening; almost rimose-dehis- 

 cent, black, about 150,u high and 250// broad. Sporules cylindrical, 

 straight, hyaline, 7-10 x 2-2ifi, borne terminally or laterally on 

 filiform basidia of various length." 



From the above diagnosis it is plain that the Sphceria palina in 

 Herb. Schw. is quite distinct from Sphceria palina Fr. 



Sphceria Gossypii Schw., Syii. Car. . 207. 



This is an obscure thing. The inner membrane of the cotton 

 boll is wrinkled or roughened in drying so as to give the appearance 

 of minute perithecia, but there is no fruit or even any real perithecia. 



Sphceria fraxicola Schw., Syii. N. Am., 1,787. 



The spec, has the aspect of Sphcerella maculiformis, but is entirely 

 sterile. . 



Sphceria vilis Fr., in Herb. Schw., is Ohleria modesta, Fekl., and 

 quite different from Sphceria vilis, Fr. , in Fr. S. M., II, p. 466. See 

 Ell. & Evrht, N. A. Pyr., p. 217. 



Sphceria stricta Pers., Syn., p. 59. 



There are two specc. ; one with scattered, buried perithecia (Cera- 

 tostoma cirrhosa (Pers. ), the other with clustered, superficial peri- 

 thecia. The latter may 'be Ceratostomella stricta, but the perithecia 

 are empty and broken, only the lower part remaining. 



Sphceria mamillana Fr. in Herb. Schw. 



The spec, so labeled is the same as Myxosporium nitidum B. & C. 



Sphceria Tilice Schw. , in Herb. Schw. and Sphceria distineta Schw. , 

 Syn. North Am., 1,655, are (sec. specc. in Herb. Schw.) only the 

 sterile pycnidia of Melanconis Tilice Tul. , or of M. tiliacea (Ell.). 



Sphceria Polygonati Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,793, is a young and 

 undeterminable Vermicularia. 



Sphceria Andromedce Schw., Syu. X. Am., 1,796. 



Perithecia subcuticular, minute, thickly scattered over the lower 

 side of the leaf, not in spots. 



Old and without fruit of any sort. 




1895.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



31 



The following species as represented in Herb. Schw. are undeter- 

 minable ; either old, immature, or sterile, viz: — 



Spha'ria aggregata Schw. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW MAMMALS FROM FLORIDA AND SOUTHERN 



CALIFORNIA. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



1. Atalapha borealis seminola subsp. nov. Type, ad. $ ,No. 649, Col. of S. N. 

 Rhoads, Tarpon Springs, Hernando Co., Florida. Col. by W. S. Dickinson, 

 July 12, 1892. 



Description. — Somewhat smaller than A. borealis with a relatively 

 larger foot. Body colors above, from crown to tip of tail, including 

 ears, feet, interfemoral membrane and hairy spaces at upper base of 

 pollex and on proximal upper margins of the fifth metacarpal, uni- 

 form, cinnamon- brown, sparingly and minutely tipped with ash on 

 the cervical, dorsal, aud anterior interfemoral regions. Forehead, 

 cheeks, and chin, yellowish- brown. Throat, neck, and breast, like 

 back but more strongly tipped with ash. Abdomen like chin; hairy 

 lower surfaces of wings cinnamon along sides of body, fading to 

 orange- brown at the bases of metacarpals. Ear membranes dark 

 brown, postbrachial membranes but slightly darker than in borealis, 

 the antebrachial decidedly darker; interfemoral membrane nearly 

 naked above on the distal third, the inferior hairy space at root of 

 tail being less extensive than in borealis. Basal half of body hairs 

 sooty, the light interspaces occupying one- fourth, the cinnamon band 

 and ashy tip the remainder. 



Measurements. — Total length, 95 mm. ; tail vertebrse, 40 ; hind foot, 

 10: — (average of 3 adults — length, 90; tail, 43; foot, 10: average 

 of five A borealis — length, 100; tail, 50; foot, 8.5). Skull of type — 

 Naso- occipital length, 11.2; zygomatic width, 9.2; postpalatal notch 

 to foramen magnum, 5. 8 ; length of mandible, 9. 3. 



It has long been known that specimens of the Red Bat from 

 Florida were unusually dark colored but it was supposed that this was 

 an inconstant variety of the northern form.- Several specimens from 

 Tarpon Springs, in my collection, all show the same peculiarities of 

 coloration, and, in a recent paper, 1 I referred them doubtfully to A. 

 pfeifferi of Cuba, not having specimens of the Cuban form for com- 



1 " Contributions to the Mammalogy of Florida," Proc. A. N. S., 1894. 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



parison. Since then Mr. Chapman 2 has not only stated that the 

 Florida specimens examined by him are darker than typical borealis 

 but that pfrifferi differs from borealis in its "brighter" colors. This 

 statement removes the last objection to recognizing the Florida Red 

 Bat as a well-marked and hitherto undefined subspecies of Atalapha 

 borealis. 



2. Peromyscus insignis sp. nov. Type, ad. $, No. 1,308, Col. of S. N. Khoads, 

 Dulzura, San Diego Co., California. Col. by Charles Marsh, Aug. 21, 1893. 



Description. — Size very large, ears, feet, and whiskers of maxi- 

 mum size, tail very long, considerably exceeding length of head 

 and body. Colors above light brownish- gray, strongly shaded with 

 coarse, black hairs, grayest on head, blackest on back, brownest on 

 rump and thighs; sides, from whiskers to hams, including upper half 

 of forearm, washed with fawn, becoming ochraceous on forearm and 

 along division of upper and lower body colors; under surfaces, in- 

 cluding pes, manus, wrist, and lower (inner) surfaces of limbs and 

 lower half of tail, a uniform, clear, grayish- white, the hair plum- 

 beous basally; whiskers black; upper half of tail, sooty; ears nearly 

 naked, the membrane within and without of a smoke-brown hue and 

 equally clothed on both sides with sparse, minute, grayish hairs. 



Skull — Small for the size of animal, rostrum short and slender; 

 nasals short, their bases distinctly anterior to the posterior extension- 

 of the premaxillaries, the latter reaching behind anterior plane of 

 orbits; frontals rounded posteriorly ; audital bullse inflated; incisive 

 foramina short, wide at base, and much narrowed anteriorly. 



Measurements (of type in millimeters). — Total length, 233; tail 

 vertebra, 132; hind foot, 26; ear (from crown), 23. Skull— Total 

 length, 28.7; basilar length, 21; nasals, 10.4; zygomatic expansion, 

 15; interorbital constriction, 4.3; length of mandible, 14.8; width 

 of mandible, 7.5. 



During a recent cursory examination of a series of thirty or more 

 White-footed Mice from the West Cascade region of California south 

 of San Francisco Bay, which had long laid in my collection as un- 

 doubted specimens of the "Parasitic Mouse" of Cooper, described 

 in 1848, by Gambel, from a Monterey specimen under the name Mus 

 califomicus, I was surprised to find those from San Diego County 

 uniformly of a grayer (less brown) color above and lacking the 



2 Bull. Anier. Mus. Nat. Hist., 1894. 343. 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



brown vent and fulvous suffusion of throat and breast characteristic 

 of more northern specimens. A comparison of the skulls of these 

 soon showed constant and specific peculiarities, the most striking being 

 the posterior rounding of the frontal bones of San Diego County speci- 

 mens contrasted with the peculiar right-angled aspect of the fronto- 

 parietal sutures in typical Peromyscus californicus. 



The ears of the southern species are much larger even than those 

 of californicus and the size of the animal in length measurements 

 considerably exceeds its rival. 



The two have been confounded in previous descriptions and the 

 southern form is probably responsible for the apparently exaggerated 

 statements of the dimensions of typical californicus. 



I am at a loss to account for the conditions described by Dr. J. 

 A. Allen 3 regarding certain specimens of Peromyscus of the califor- 

 nicus type from Santa Ysabel and Dulzura being darker and smaller 

 than those from Santa Clara County, my own series showing exactly 

 reversed characters. 



I may also state in this connection that none of my specimens 

 from either locality have white-tipped tails. 



3. Thomomys altivallis sp. nov. Type, ad. £ , No. 1,927, Col. of S. N. Rhoads, 

 San Bernardino Mts., California (alt. 5,000 ft.). Col. by E. B. Herron, 

 Aug. 10, 1894. 



Description. — Size medium, smaller than T. toltecus Allen, but 

 larger than T. monticolus Allen. Above dull chestnut-brown, be- 

 coming darker dorsally and along upper sides of head, the middle 

 crown and median line of back nearly black, the sides washed with 

 fulvous. Nose, chops, and ears, dusky, the latter being bordered 

 anteriorly by a narrow line, and beneath and behind by a broad 

 patch of sooty black reaching nearly to occiput. Beneath plum- 

 beous-gray, washed with rusty (the plumbeous in worn specimens 

 strongly predominating). Throat, feet, and legs normally of the 

 same color as rest of under parts ; tail grayish. In the type there 

 are albinistic white patches across throat, on forelegs, and at root of 

 tail. 



Skull long and narrow, the zygomae tapering toward the rostrum, 

 which is relatively long and wide. Interparietal narrow and (in the 

 type) longer than wide; nasals rather long and acutely pointed on 



3 Bull. Amer. Mus. N. Hist., 1893, 187. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



the outer posterior corners, the latter coming far short of the nasal 

 prolongations of the premaxilluries. Upper and lower incisors un- 

 usually wide and strong, the upper inner sulcus scarcely noticeable 

 without a glass. Molar dentition likewise unusually massive. The 

 coronoid process of mandible is more erect than usually seen in the 

 genus and terminates in a sharp point. 



Measurements (of type in millimeters).— Total length, 228; tail 

 vertebrae, 74; hind foot, 29; arc of middle fore-claw, 11.5. Skull — 

 Total length, 39.7; basilar length, 34; greatest zygomatic width, 

 23.2; interorbital constriction, 7; length of nasals, 13; terminal 

 width of upper pair of incisors, 4.6. 



Three specimens of this gopher, taken at varying elevations of 

 from 5,000 to 7,000 feet in the San Bernardino Mountains by Mr. 

 Herron, form the basis of the foregoing description. 



Though somewhat affected by albinism, as stated in the description, 

 I have chosen the type as being the most typical of the three speci- 

 mens, the other two being less fully developed in cranial characters 

 and are in more worn pelage. The type may be considered repre- 

 sentative of the maximum development of the species, the others 

 averaging considerably less in body and cranial measurements. 

 This species may be compared to three described forms. From T. 

 toltecus it differs in a smaller body, longer tail, and much smaller 

 and more elongate skull, also in the darker upper and very much 

 darker lower body colors; from T. monticolus the San Bernardino 

 gopher differs radically in the small size and narrowness of the in- 

 terparietal, in the marked prolongation and acuteness of the fronto- 

 intermaxillary suture beyond the nasals, in its wide mastoid and 

 zygomatic development, and in the diminution of the inner ridges of 

 the faces of the upper incisors. Iu color, altivallis differs from 

 monticolus in a less marked degree, but in the same respects as 

 already described in its separation from toltecus. In some respects 

 altivallis resembles bottce from Nicasio, California. It may be dis- 

 tinguished therefrom by its more fulvous shade above, by the dark 

 dorsal stripe, black nose, and sooty under parts, and by the greater 

 size of manus and strength of fore claws. Cranially bottce is more 

 massive, with a slender rostrum and weaker dentition, narrower in- 

 terparietal and wide zygoma 1 . In altivallis there are no parietal 

 ridges which are so characteristic of bottw of same age. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



4. Thomomys bottee pallescens subsp. nov. Type, ad. $, No. 1,932, Col. of 



S. N. Eboads, Grapelands, San Bernardino Valley, California. Col. by K. 

 B. Herron, Marcb 22, 1894. 



Description. — Size large, feet, relatively, of medium size, with 

 short, thick claws. Color above, dull, tawny-brown, lightest on 

 rump, browner on nape, with blackish shade on head. Ears, hind- 

 ear patch and chops, sooty; feet and lower surfaces of limbs, ash; 

 breast, belly, vent and lower margin of sides, tawny-ash. Skull 

 massive, angular; dentition relatively weak; interparietal longer 

 than wide. 



Measurements. — Total length, 260 mm.; tail vertebra;, 89; hind 

 foot, 33.5; middle claw of manus, 9.2. Skull — Total length, 39; 

 greatest zygomatic breadth, 24.4; basilar length, 35.5; length of 

 nasals, 11.9; interorbital constriction, 6.9; length of mandible, 25. 



A series of nine specimens from two localities in the San Bernar- 

 dino Valley and two from Banning, California, show constant and 

 easily recognized color differences from typical specimens of bottw 

 from Nicasio. The tail of type specimen is much longer than the 

 average, which is about the same as in bottcv. The heavily ossified, 

 angular skull, in all its characters, is similar to that of bottce. What 

 Pallescens is to bottce,, both geographically and anatomically, Neo- 

 toma fnscipes dispar is to Neotoma fnscipes. 



5. Thomomys fulvus nigricans subsp. nov. Type, ad. $ , No. 2.007, Col. of S. N. 



Rboads, Witch Creek, San Diego Co., California. Col. by F. Stephens, 

 Dec. 22, 1893. 



Description. — Size small ; tail rather short and well haired; pelage 

 full and long. Color above, uniform blackish-brown, becoming 

 fulvous on the sides and along the upper liue of belly, then grayish 

 on limbs and feet and lower belly line, then strong fulvous on median 

 line of breast and abdomen and ventral region. The lips, cheek- 

 pouches, and ears are sooty, and the hairs of under parts are basally 

 of the same color, imparting an unusually dark aspect to slightly 

 worn specimens. 



Skull— Of the slender build, wide interparietal and relatively 

 massive dentition of the fulvus type. 



Measurements. — Total length, 215 mm.; tail vertebras, 72; hind 

 foot, 28. Skull — Total length, 37; basilar length, 33; greatest zygo- 

 matic breadth, 23; length of nasals, 13; interorbital constriction, 6; 

 length of mandible, 23. 



Eleven examples of this form, recently forwarded by Mr. Stephens, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



have been compared with a series of fulvus loaned by the American 

 Museum of Natural History through the courtesy of Dr. J. A. 

 Allen. Specimens of same age and season from southern Arizona 

 show that the San Diego County animal is uniformly blacker and less 

 fulvous, but the close resemblance in cranial characters of the two 

 series will not justify their separation as full species. Two specimens 

 from the San Jacinto and Cuyamaca Mountains, respectively, taken 

 at altitudes of five to six thousand feet, are ideutical with those from 

 Witch Creek. 



Note on Thomomys perpallidus. 



A large series of beautifully prepared specimens of T. perpalli- 

 dus have incidentally been examined in my studies of the southern 

 California forms. The cranial characters of these specimens com- 

 pared with those of fulvus of similar age and size, show considerable 

 agreement. Of these may be specially noted the broad interparietal, 

 wide, heavy incisors and molars, and the slenderness of the bones of 

 the zygomatic arch. Correlated with their cranial likeness it may 

 be noted that darker summer specimens of perpallidus form a close 

 intergrade of color with lighter examples of fulvus, connecting, in an 

 unexpected manner, the extreme light phase of the former with the 

 darker phase of the latter species. Not having specimens from any 

 locality between Agua Caliente, California, and the San Francisco 

 Mts., Arizona, I am unable to do more than conjecture whether an 

 uninterrupted series would not justify naming the Mojave Desert 

 Gopher Thomomys fulvus perpallidus. So far as the evidence goes, 

 however, the relationship of the two animals is quite close. 



Through the kindness of Dr. J. A. Allen, I was able to secure a 

 loan from the American Museum of Natural History of typical speci- 

 mens of several species of Thomomys from upper and Lower Cali- 

 fornia and Arizona, without which the conclusions arrived at in this 

 paper would have been of little value. 




38 PROCESSINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



February 5. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The death of George A. Rex, M.D., a member, on the 4th inst.,. 

 was announced. 



On a New Method of Studying Cell Motion. — Charles Lester 

 Leonard, M.D. communicated notes of a lecture delivered January 

 15, 1895:- 



Since the enunciation by Virchow, in 1858, of his theory of cellu- 

 lar pathology the attention of the scientific world has been centered 

 about the study of this unit. Nearly all the unsolved problems of 

 medical science involve, in one way or another, the consideration of 

 some one of the functions of the cell. 



It is my purpose in this paper to call attention to a new method 

 of studying one of these functions. I have chosen as illustrations^ 

 some of the well-known facts of physiology already seen and de- 

 scribed by competent observers, and have confined the greater part 

 of my study to cell motion as exemplified in the movements of the 

 red and white blood corpuscles. 



The possibility of these studies was suggested by the successful 

 result of an experiment in instantaneous photomicrography. 



The method to be illustrated consists in the making of a consecu- 

 tive series of instantaneous photomicrographs of the same microscopic 

 field taken at definite intervals, and the comparative study of the 

 series. The results obtained by this method are the elimination to 

 a greater extent of the personal equation of the observer, the pro- 

 curing of incontestable proof of phenomena observed, the extension 

 of the observations over any length of time, and the possibility of 

 studying the changes occurring over the entire field at any one 

 moment. The method also enables the student to study the condition 

 of a fresh, living, unstained specimen for any length of time, in 

 fields taken at definite intervals. 



The original magnifications were one and two- thousand diameters 

 measured by the projection of a stage micrometer upon the screen; 

 the lantern multiplies these diameters by forty, giving on the screen 

 40,000 and 80,000 diameters. The time of exposure was instan- 

 taneous, at least relatively with regard to the motion of the bodies, 

 varying in different pictures from two, to one-fourth of a second. 



The results obtained as regards the photomicrography of unstained 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



specimens is illustrated by six photomicrographs of human blood in 

 the different forms which it assumes upon the warm stages. 



The method of study is illustrated by the following series : — 



Series A. — The amoeboid motion of the white blood corpuscle. 

 The change of shape and motion with relation to the surrounding 

 stationary and identical fields is well marked. 



Series B. — This series shows the power of the white blood cor- 

 puscle in forcing its way through a mass of red crenated and ad- 

 herent blood corpuscles. 



Series C. — Is of marked interest; a white corpuscle has seized 

 upon a red corpuscle and a series of photomicrographs shows that it 

 has dragged it through a considerable distance in a field which is 

 proved to be stationary and identical in all the photomicrographs. 



Series D. — This series shows motion in a red blood corpuscle, 

 situated in a field in which the series proves no other motion took 

 place during one half hour. This motion must, therefore, have been 

 produced by some inherent power in the red blood corpuscle, and as 

 the photomicrographs show that no twist has occurred, the motion 

 cannot be due to a previous torsion, and may therefore be considered 

 a truly amoeboid motion of the red blood corpuscle. 



Series E. and F. — Show the diapedesis of the red blood corpuscle 

 from a capillary in which the blood is in motion and from one in 

 which there is stasis of the blood. This phenomenon, therefore, 

 occurs under two opposite or nearly opposite conditions as regards 

 intra-vascular blood pressure, indicating, perhaps, that diapedesis 

 is not a filtration due to pressure, but is due to the amoeboid 

 motion and power of the red blood corpuscles. 



Series G. — -This series shows an empty capillary. Along the in- 

 ner surface of its wall may be seen white corpuscles, in which the 

 series indicates movement. The diapedesis of two red blood cor- 

 puscles from this empty capillary tends to strengthen the belief in 

 the amoeboid motion of the red blood corpuscle. 



Further photomicrographs illustrate the position of the corpuscles 

 within the capillaries, and show the presence of nuclei in the red 

 corpuscles of the frog while in the living tissues. Different forms of 

 the malarial plasmodia, and the application of the method to path- 

 ological studies are illustrated by other photomicrographs. 



The pictures are not shown as the perfect results of this method, 

 or as the outcome of research by it. They are simply to illus- 

 trate the author's method of studying cell motion. Inferences based 

 on the pictures are foreign to the purpose of the communication, 

 which is intended merely to demonstrate a method of study worthy of 

 scientific consideration. Its usefulness in producing accurate illus- 

 trations, both for publication and for lantern slides, cannot be over- 

 estimated, as it supplies pictures whose counterpart can be found 

 under the microscope. 




40 proceedings of the academy of [1895. 



February 12. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Thirty persons present. 



The Biological and Microscopical Section presented the following 

 minute: — 



GEORGE A. REX, M. D. 



The Biological and Microscopical Section of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, in view of the sudden death of 

 Dr. George A. Rex on the 4th inst., deem it appropriate that a 

 minute be made upon its records in appreciation of the loss it has 

 sustained. 



Dr. Rex became a member of the Academy in January, 1881, and 

 in December, 1881, he was elected a member of the Section. He 

 served as its Conservator from November 3, 1890, until his death. 



Dr. Rex was the highest authority on the Myxomycetes in the 

 United States. It was his enthusiastic study of this group that first 

 brought him to the Section, and his communications on this subject- 

 formed an interesting part of nearly every meeting. He was the 

 author of numerous species, which, owing to his extreme conserva- 

 tism, will doubtless continue to bear his name. Many forms, new 

 to him, remained in his collection unnamed for years, and were only 

 published when he had thoroughly convinced himself that they were 

 really new to science. 



Although he was interested principally in the Myxomycetes, he 

 was an earnest student of the lower orders of fungi and an ardent 

 admirer of everything beautiful in microscopic nature. 



Dr. Rex was always a faithful and tireless worker for the interests 

 of the Academy, and those who came in contact with him as fellow- 

 student and colleague could not fail to appreciate his genial dis- 

 position and his faithfulness in friendship. 



As a professional man his work brought him into all grades of 

 life, and it is especially among the poor and needy that may be found 

 to-day a sincere and heartfelt grief wdiich constitutes his only reward 

 for many hours of toil. 



Hon. John Cadwalader was elected a member of Council to fill 

 the vacancy caused by the death of George A. Rex, M.D. 




1895.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 41 



February 19. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Twenty- four persons present. 



A paper entitled "New Subspecies of the Gray Fox and Say's 

 Chipmunk," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for publication. 



February 26. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"The Eocene Tertiary of Texas east of the Brazos River," by 

 Wm. Kennedy. 



"Description of New Species of Achatinella from the Hawaiian 

 Islands," by D. D. Baldwin. 



"Notes on the Dentition and Jaws of Achatinellidse, " by 

 Henry Sutor and H. M. Gwatkin. 



Mr. Silas L. Schumo was elected a member. 



P. B. Sarasin of Basel, Switzerland, was elected a correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



NEW SUBSPECIES OF THE GRAY FOX AND SAY'S CHIPMUNK. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



Urooyon ciaereo-argenteus floridanus subsp. nov. Type, yg. ad. $ , No. 1.837, 

 Col. of S. N. Rhoads. Tarpon Springs, Florida. Col. by W. S. Dickinson, 

 Dec. 1894. 



Description. — Smaller than cinereo-argenteus of the Middle States, 

 with relatively shorter hind foot, tail, and ears, and harsher pelage. 

 Skull characters not appreciably different from the typical form. 

 Crown from between eyes (including space between ears and eyes to 

 black malar stripe), upper neck, back, rump, sides, upper surfaces 

 of legs and feet mixed silver-gray, much as in the northern animal. 

 Chin, margin of lips, whisker patch, upper line and tip of tail and 

 an indistinct double stripe reaching from the nose through and under 

 eyes and joining on cheeks, black. Hind ears, sides of neck to fore- 

 legs, broad band across throat and under surface of foreleg rusty 

 brown. Throat and cheek- stripe, from anterior canthus of eye, white. 

 Anterior upper lip adjoining muzzle, brownish-white. Breast, belly, 

 vent, inner surfaces of hams and inner base of fore-legs pale rusty 

 fulvous, a few grayish-white hairs near vent. Soles of feet cinnamon, 

 with dusky borders. 



Measurements (of type, taken from dry skin). — Total length, 900 

 mm. ; hind foot, 125 ; tail vertebra?, 260; ear, from crown, 60 : (Of old, 

 adult topotype; length, 910; foot, 125; tail, 310; ear, 63). Skull- 

 Total length, 114; basilar length, 103; zygomatic expansion, 65; 

 interorbital expansion, 35 ; length of nasals, 41 ; length of mandible, 

 86 ; width of mandible, 33. 



Two specimens, male and female, from the vicinity of Tarpon 

 Springs, one in winter and the other in summer pelage, show such 

 well-marked differences from the Gray Fox of Virginia and the 

 Middle States, I feel no hesitation in considering them sufficient 

 indication that the fox of southern Florida should be separated from 

 the northern animal. 



Besides the difference in dimensions already stated in the descrip- 

 tion, the Florida fox may be recognized by the paleness of the fulvous 

 color of breast and belly and by the almost entire absence of white 

 on these parts so conspicuous in specimens from Virginia and New 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Jersey. It lacks entirely the white stripe on the inside of hind legs, 

 and the rusty throat patch is much longer (3 or 4 inches) than in 

 cinereo-argenteus, in which it often forms a narrow collar scarcely 

 dividing the white of lower head and throat from that of hreast. 



As I have already pointed out, 1 priority in naming the Gray Fox 

 belongs to Midler, who described it in 1776. Probably in the same 

 year a plate of this animal had been published by Schreber (Saug- 

 thiere, Tab. XCII ), on which he used the name " Canis cinereo-argenteus 

 Briss." The text belonging to the volume (Band III) in which this 

 plate was bound bears the date 1778. In the text Schreber nowhere 

 imposes the Latin name because of his expressed doubt whether 

 "Der Grisfuchs" might not be the same as "Der Virginische Fuchs," 

 which he named Canis virginianus. It is, therefore, apparent that 

 cinereo-argenteus was not adopted by Schreber but was merely quoted 

 on the plate to denote the animal which he considered the same as 

 the Canis cinereo-argenteus of Brisson. Schreber's plate of Der 

 Virginische Fuchs is copied from the preposterous one of Catesby, 

 while that of Der Grisfuchs is not a bad representation of the Gray 

 Fox, and his description of the animal (pp. 360, 361) is the first 

 accurate one published, in fact it would be hard to find a more reli- 

 able diagnosis of the external characters of the northern form than 

 this of Schreber's, taken from a furrier's pelt, sent from America to 

 Germany. 



Returning to Midler's description we find the additional statement 

 that his Canis cinereo-argenteus is based on Brisson' s animal as well 

 as on Schreber's plate above mentioned, but he gives no habitat. 

 Brisson (Regne Animal, 1756, p. 241) gives it: "Habitat in Caro- 

 lina, & Virginia in cavis arboribus. " The Gray Foxes which I have 

 examined from North Carolina and Virginia are essentially like those 

 of the Middle States, and it is therefore proper to apply Midler's 

 name to the northern as contrasted with the extreme southern form. 

 It is probable that there is little intergradation between the two, north 

 of southern Georgia and that typical floridanus is confined to penin- 

 sular Florida, as is the case with otber mammals in these regions 

 having the same distribution. 



Tamias lateralis saturatus subsp. now Type, ad. $ , Col. of S. X. Kboads, 

 No. 1,365. Lake Kicbelos, Kittitas Co., Washn. (elevation 8,000 ft.). Col. 

 by Allan Kupert, Sep., 1893. 



Description. — Size large, tail very long, foot and ear in the same 

 1 Reprint of Ord's Zoology, 1894, Appx., p. 8. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



proportion, colors darkest of the T. lateralis group. Top and sides 

 of head and sides of neck to and including forelegs, chestnut, shaded 

 with black ; eyelids pale buff, in marked contrast to their surround- 

 ings; lips, throat, breast, sides of belly and hams, rusty; feet paler 

 rusty ; back, from occiput to and including root of tail and defined 

 laterally by red of neck and black of inner body stripe and poste- 

 riorly by white of middle stripe, including flanks and upper hind 

 legs, grizzled, rusty black. White body stripe longest, reaching from 

 base of neck nearly to tail ; inner black stripe shortest, about half 

 the width and length of outer stripe, which latter is the same width 

 as white stripe, and about two- thirds as long. Belly and chest uni- 

 form grizzled black, the bases of hairs sooty, their tips fulvous. Tail, 

 above, like back on proximal third, becoming more distinctly mar- 

 gined with a subterminal black band which becomes broader and 

 blacker at tip, the outer tips of hairs rusty ; beneath, the tail is 

 lighter, with a broad central area of reddish-yellow within the black 

 border. Skull, not appreciably different from that of lateralis, ex- 

 cept in its larger size. 



Measurements (of type, in millimeters). — Total length, 317; tail 

 vertebrae, 114 ; hind foot, 46: (Average of five adults, length, 305; 

 tail, 112; foot, 46). Skull — Total length, 46; basilar length, 38; 

 zygomatic expansion, 28.8; interorbital constriction, 12; length of 

 nasals, 15.7; length of mandible, 28; width of mandible, 16.2. 



Seventeen chipmunks, taken by Mr. Rupert in the months of July 

 and September, in the vicinity of Snoqualmie Pass, Cascade Mts., 

 Washington, show closest affinities, in many respects, with T. lateralis 

 einerascens 9 in the "red phase" described by Dr. Merriam. They 

 differ from einerascens in the fact that there is no "gray phase," the 

 adults of both sexes being similarly colored. They are also blacker 

 and browner throughout and have a relatively smaller body, larger 

 foot, and longer tail than einerascens, and the median lateral stripe 

 does not reach the ears as in that form and in lateralis. 



The very close agreement of the skulls of lateralis and saturatus 

 indicates that the latter is nothing more than the usual "Cascade 

 representative" of a Rocky Mountain type, and it is probable that 

 the relationship of einerascens to lateralis is quite as close. 



2 Merriam, N. Amer. Fauna, No. 4, 1S<U), 20. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



NEW AND OTHERWISE INTERESTING TERTIARY MOLLUSCA 



FROM TEXAS. 



BY GILBERT D. HARRIS. 



While employed as Tertiary paleontologist to the Geological Survey 

 of Texas during the years 1892 and 1893, the writer prepared a large 

 monograph on the Tertiary mollusca of the State with the intention 

 of publishing it in the 5th Annual Report of that Survey. For 

 want of funds the printing of this report has been indefinitely post- 

 poned, and accordingly the following facts and descriptions of new 

 species, taken from the monograph in question, have here found an 

 appropriate place for publication. 



The points in stratigraphy brought out by the study of the various 

 Tertiary faunas of the State have been included with other matter 

 in an article published by the State Geologist in the Journal of 

 Geology, 1894, p. 549. 



Suffice it to say here that the Midway stage, so well developed in 

 Georgia and Alabama and known also in Mississippi and Arkansas, 

 exists also in Texas, as is proved by the occurrence of such species as 

 Enclimatoceras ulrichi, Ostrea pulaskensis, Cucullcea macrodonta, 

 Volutilithes limopsis and others. 



The Lignitic stage, so far as has been observed, is destitute of 

 molluscan remains. The exposure on Brazos River, known as 

 "Smiley's Bluff," two miles above the mouth of Pond Creek, is 

 evidently about synchronous with the Matthews Landing beds of 

 Alabama. These are now included in the Midway stage. 



The Lower Claiborne beds are replete with fossils, many of which 

 are common to this horizon in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and 

 South Carolina. Besides these well-known forms there are many 

 new ones, some of which are described below. 



The true Claiborne, the Jackson, and the Vicksburg stages seem 

 to have no representatives in Texas. This fact cannot be too 

 strongly emphasized since most writers on Texas geology have re- 

 ferred certain fossil bearing outcrops to some of these upper Eocene 

 stages. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



PELECYPODA. 



Genus MODIOLA. 

 Modiola houstonia sp. nov. PL 1, fig. 1. 



Specific characterization. — General form of shell as figured; thin, 

 showing concentric lines of growth on the area below the umbonal 

 ridge ; above the same, with broad concentric undulations, becoming 

 more numerous towards the umbones ; anterior, radially striate. 



Localities. — Three miles northeast of Crockett, Houston Co., Tex. ; 

 also five miles northwest of Orangeburg, S. C. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — In Texas State Museum. 



Modiola texana Gabb. PI. 1, fig. 2. 

 Perna texana Gabb, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Pbila., 1861, p. 371. 



The collections of the Survey have yielded few and imperfect 

 specimens of this species. 



Localities. — Caddo Peak, Texas, Gabb. Two miles southwest of 

 Campbellton, Atascosa Co. ; two miles east of Arnold's ranch, Frio 

 Co., Tex. Near Red Laud, La. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Specimen figured: From near Red Land, La., property of U. S. 

 Nat. Museum. 



Type. — In the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Genus LEDA. 

 Leda bastropensis nov. sp. PI. 1, fig. 3. 



Specific chararlerizntion. — General form as figured; medial por- 

 tions of the valves with regular, strong, concentric stria?; stria? ob- 

 solete on the anterior end and on the post-umbonal slope, the latter 

 with a shallow furrow extending from the umbo to near the ex- 

 tremity of the valve; within the valve, a raised line or ridge, emanat- 

 ing from the umbonal region and extending along beneath the 

 hinge finally terminates in the middle of the posterior end and is 

 there slightly enlarged. 



This species differs from L. plicata Lea in its lack of striation 

 over portions of the exterior, and the more central positions of the 

 umbones. From L. mater Mr., bastropensis is distinguished by its 

 want of anterior radiating sulci, its lack of post-umbonal striation, 

 and by its form. This is readily distinguished from L. albirupina 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Har. since it lacks the smooth Yoldia-like aspect about the umbones 

 so characteristic of that species. 



Localities. — Rio Grande at Starr-Zapata Co. line; Brazos River, 

 one mile below Milam-Burleson Co. line, Tex. 

 Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 

 Type. — In Texas State Museum. 

 Leda milamensis nov. sp. PI. 1, fig. 4. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured; surface covered 

 with fine concentric stria? except near the anterior margin where it 

 is smooth and polished ; diameter from beak to base great and the 

 shell here much inflated; posterior remarkably narrow and flattened. 



Locality. — Smiley 's Bluff, Brazos River, two miles above the 

 mouth of Pond Creek. 



Geological horizon. — Midway Eocene. 



Type specimen. — In Texas State Museum. 



Leda houstonia nov. sp. PL 1, fig. 5. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured; concentric 

 lines scarcely discernible except where they pass over the umbonal 

 ridge; post-umbonal area traversed by one raised line extending from 

 the umbo to near the extremity of the valve ; sometimes as many as 

 eight or ten raised radiating lines appear near the posterior sub- 

 margin. 



Localities. — Between Orrell's and Evergreen Crossing, Elm Cr. , 

 Lee Co.; Alabama Bluff, Trinity River, Houston Co.; along Elm 

 Cr. from Orrell's to Price's Crossing, Texas. 



Specimens of this species occur in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Phila., labelled "Leda (Nuculana) subtrigona 

 Con.?, S. Carolina." 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — In Texas State Museum. 



Subgenus ADRANA. 

 Adrana aldrichiana nov. sp. PI. 1, fig. 6. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; exterior smooth and polished; within smooth; sinus 

 small ; posterior row of teeth much the longer. 



The type specimen is compressed vertically, the umbo should be 

 somewhat more elevated than is represented by the figure. The type 

 and all the specimens seen by the writer were in the collection of T. 

 H. Aldrich, temporarily loaned to the survey. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Locality. — Brazos River, Tex., one and one-half miles below 

 Mosley's Ferry. 



Genus VENERICARDIA. 

 Venerioardia trapaquara nov. sp. PI. 1, fig. 7. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured ; ribs about 

 twenty- four, compound, i. e. , broad at base, surmounted by a medial 

 dentate carina; umbonal ridge prominent. 



This species is remarkable for its quadrangular form and. the 

 prominence of its umbonal ridge. It belongs to the alticostata stock 

 and is most nearly allied to Cardita subquadrata Con. (Jr. Ac. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 2d Ser., 1848, p. 128, pi. 14, fig. 10), but from Conrad's 

 description and figure it is evident that his species is much more 

 compressed, the umbonal ridge less prominent, and the beaks more 

 nearly central. 



Locality. — Cedar Creek, southeast corner of Wheelock League, 

 200 yds. north of Brazos Co. line, Robertson Co. , Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus ASTARTE. 



Astarte smithvillensis nov. sp. PI. 1, figs. 8, a; 9, a, b, c. 

 A. conradi Buckley, 1st Ann. Rep. Geol. Agr. Surv. Tex., 1874, p. 63. 

 Crassatella alta (young) Heilp., Cont. to Geol., 1884, p. 38. 

 Astarte tellinoides Heilp., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 402. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figures ; surface in typical specimens marked by strong concen- 

 tric rugae especially towards the base; these slope gently above but 

 abruptly below and are superimposed by fine striae; umbones flat- 

 tened. 



This species shows great variations in form and size as well as 

 markings. At Collier's Ferry some specimens are more elongated, 

 others more rotund ; some have crenulations on the interior submar- 

 gin while others are smooth. Several of these forms are shown by 

 the figures cited. 



Localities of the typical jorm. — Devil's Eye, Colorado River, 

 Bastrop Co.; Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Locality of the smaller forms. — 15 miles southeast of Nacog- 

 doches, Nacogdoches Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Types. — Texas State Museum. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Genus CRASSATELLA. 

 Crassatella texalta nov. sp. PI. 2, fig. 2. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured; exterior smooth 

 about the umbones, but marked by lines of growth auteriorly and 

 sub-basally; hinge and marginal crenulations as in C. alta Con. 



This species is closely allied to C. alta, but is distinguished by its 

 proportionally longer form and its smooth umbones, the latter feature 

 being in marked contrast with the corrugations of C. alta. It 

 evidently does not attain the large dimensions of Conrad's species. 



Localities. — Alabama Bluff, Trinity River, Houston Co.; Hurri- 

 cane Bayou, Houston Co. , Tex. ; 2£ miles east of Newton, and 4 

 miles west of Enterprise, Miss. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type specimen. — Texas State Museum. 



Crassatella trapaquara nov. sp. PI. 2, fig. 3, a. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured ; surface con- 

 centrically striate anteriorly, smooth posteriorly, except a few shal- 

 low concentric depressions marking periods of growth ; hinge teeth 

 not so strong as in texalta; lunular margin concave; basal margin 

 of the valves but slightly convex, crenulated within anteriorly and 

 basally but not posteriorly. 



Localities.— Smith ville, Bastrop Co.; 8 miles east of Alto, Chero- 

 kee Co.; Elm Creek, between Orrell's and Evergreen Crossing, 

 Lee Co.; Murchison's Headright, northern boundary, Houston Co.; 

 R. Williams' Headright, northeast of Weches, Houston Co., Tex. 

 Also Moore's Iron Mine, La. , and near Enterprise, Miss. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Harris' collection. 



Crassatella antestriata Gabb. PL 1, fig. 10, a. 



C. antestriata Gabb, Journ. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. iv, 1860, p. 388, pi. 67. 

 f. 53. 



Gabb's figure and description were of a young specimen ; the 

 figure herewith given is of an adult. Compared with trapaquara, 

 antestriata is much more oblique, or inequilateral, the posterior ex- 

 tremity is sub-biangular and crenate within, and the basal margin is 

 more convex. Externally antestriata, is more strongly marked. 



Localities. — Lee Co. ; Elm Creek, between Evergreen and Orrell's 

 Crossing, Lee Co.; Alabama Bluff, Trinity River, Houston Co.; 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



5 miles west of Crockett, Houston Co. ; Hurricane Bayou, Marster's 

 and Hodge's Survey, Houston Co. ; Baptizing Creek, Cherokee Co. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Singley's collection, from Lee Co. 

 Crassatella texana Heilp. PI. 2, fig. 1. 



C. texana Heilp., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1890, p. 406, pi. xi, f. 6. 



This is certainly very distinct from antestriata. Besides the points 

 of difference mentioned by Heilprin the following may be noted : The 

 umbonal ridge is much sharper in texana, and there is a trace of a 

 sinus just below it ; the posterior margin is not sub-biangular as in 

 antedi iata, and the valves are less oblique. 



From trapaquara this species can be distinguished by its surface 

 markings, lower form, and the depression just below its umbonal 

 ridge. 



Localities. — Near McBee's School-house, 2 miles east of Alto ; 

 Berryman's Land, Kimble Headright, Cherokee Co.; Murchison's 

 Headright ; Lively's Place, Wilson Headright, Houston Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Apparently lost. 



Genus SPHJERELLA. 

 SphffirellaC?) anteproducta nov. sp. PI. 2, fig. 4. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; anterior somewhat produced, laterally compressed ; pos- 

 terior dorsal margin likewise somewhat compressed ; ventricose. 



This species is much more ventricose than infiata Lea, from 

 Claiborne, and scarcely as much so as turgida Con., from the Vicks- 

 burg beds. The umbones are intermediate in size between infiata 

 and turgidula, the size greater than either. 



Localities. — Cedar Creek, Wheelock League, Robertson Co.; 

 cutting on Tyler and South Eastern R. R., 400 yards south of mile 

 post No. 23, Cherokee Co. ; Dr. Collard's Farm, Sparks Headright, 

 Brazos Co.; Elm Creek, Lee Co., Tex. Also from mouth of Saline 

 Bayou, Red River, Louisiana. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Singley's collection. 



Genus MERETRIX. 

 Meretrix texacola nov. sp. PI. 2,. fig. 5, a, 1). 



Specific characterization. — Size and general forms as indicated by 

 the figures; surface generally smooth about the umbones, but often 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



more or less corrugated concentrically towards the base, especially 

 posteriorly ; lunule in the larger specimens, very indistinct in the 

 smaller forms bordered by a well incised line. 



The surface markings resemble somewhat those of C. nuttalliopsis 

 Heilp.. but the anterior and posterior are too pointed, the shell in 

 general too inflated, and the umbonal angle too great for that species. 

 The larger specimens resemble M. californica Con. 



Localities. — Rio Grande at Webb-Zapata County line ; Smithville, 

 Bastrop Co., 2 miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co.; Mosley's Ferry, 

 Brazos Co. ; Cedar Creek, Robinson Co. ; Alum Bluff, Trinity River ; 

 Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co. ; Collier's Ferry, Brazos River, Bur- 

 leson Co. ; cutting on Houston East & West Texas R. R., 4 miles 

 north of Corrigan, Polk Co., Texas. Also from the base of the 

 bluff at Claiborne, Ala. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Types. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus TELLINA. 

 Tellina tallicheti nov. sp. PI. 3, fig. 1. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; not-twisted posteriorly ; thin ; posterior sub-biangulate ; 

 anterior rounded ; beak slightly behind the center ; lateral teeth 

 well developed ; posterior cardinal bifid ; pallial sinus and muscular 

 scars of good dimensions though rather dimly marked ; exterior 

 smooth, except a few concentric striae on the post- umbonal slope; 

 umbonal ridge passes from the beak to the posterio-basal margin. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Harris' collection. 



Genus SILIQTJA. 

 Siliqua simondsi nov. sp. P!. 3, fig. 2. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; anterior acutely rounded sub-basally, posterior rounded ; 

 from the umbo radiate two depressions (in the cast), the anterior deep, 

 the posterior more nearly vertical and faint ; pallial line and sinus 

 comparatively well marked. 



Locality. — Dr. Williams' quarry, Stephenson's Headright, Brazos 

 Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Genus CERONIA. 

 Ceronia singleyi nov. sp. PI. 3, fig. 3, a. 



Specific characterization, — General form as figured ; beaks promi- 

 nent, turned anteriorly ; anterior side often very elongate ; posterior 

 generally short, obtusely pointed, with an obtuse angle midway of 

 the posterior dorsal margin ; umbonal ridge rounded ; post-umbonal 

 slope of considerable width and nearly at right angles to the face of 

 the valve ; substance of the valve moderately thick. 



The young of this species have a decidedly Schizodesma appear- 

 ance. Older specimens assume the general form of Hemimactra 

 elongata of the Indo-Pacific region. 



This species is known only in the form of casts in a light gray 

 sandstone. It is regarded as a Mactroid shell, and not a Macoma, 

 because (a) the beaks point anteriorly; (b) there is no indication of 

 a twisting posteriorly; (c) the hinge margin of this shell is thick and 

 evidently bore well-developed lateral teeth ; (d) the posterior is very 

 obtuse. 



Locality. — Sunnyside Church, Lee Co., Texas. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus PERIPLOMA. 

 Periploma collardi nov. sp. PI. 3, fig. 4. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured ; nearly equi- 

 valve; beaks turned slightly backward; posterior deflected to the 

 right ; substance of the shell thin and very nacreous; umbones fissured. 



The general form of this species is somewhat like that of Ceronia 

 singleyi, from which, however, it is distinguished by the difference 

 in direction of the beaks, as well as by the beaks themselves. Again 

 this species has a much more extended posterior dorsal margin. 



Localities. — Dr. Collard's farm, Sparks' Headright, Brazos Co., 

 Tex. Also mouth of Saline Bayou, Winn Parish, La., and base of 

 bluff at Claiborne, Ala. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CORBULA. 

 Corbula aldrichi Meyer, var. smithvillensis nov. var. PI. 3, fig. 5, a. 



The variety is larger than the typical form, beak in the left valve 

 more nearly central; right valve proportionally higher; radiating 

 lines generally obsolete. 




1895.] natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 53 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. ; Burleson Shell Bluff on 

 Brazos River; 2 miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co. ; Mosley's Ferry, 

 Brazos River ; Cedar Creek, Wheelock League, Rohertson Co. ; Elm 

 Creek, Rohertson Co.; Berryiuau's Land, Cherokee Co. ; Alum Bluff, 

 Trinity River, Houston Co. ; 2 miles south of Mt. Selmon R O., 

 Cherokee Co.; 1 mile south from Nevilles, Gonzales Co. ; 15 miles 

 southeast of Nacogdoches, Nacogdoches Co., Tex. Also near Enter- 

 prise, Miss. 



Geological horizon of the variety. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus MARTESIA. 

 Martesia texana nov. sp. PL 3, fig 6. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured ; surface marked 

 by concentric lines or corrugations crossed by a radiating fold ; ante- 

 rior to this the lines are strong, but behind it they are very faint. 



This species differs from 31. elongata Aid., by its much greater 

 anterior development, and hence the much more central position of 

 the radiating fold. 



Locality. — Two miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type specimen. — Texas State Museum. 



GASTROPODA. 



Genus RINGICULA. 

 Ringicula trapaquara nov. sp. PL 3, fig. 7. 



Specific characterization. — Whorls 5; whorls 1, 2, and 3 nearly or 

 quite smooth; 4 with a well marked subsutural line and fainter ones 

 over the whole surface; body whorl strongly striate spirally, labrum 

 very much thickened and crenulate within, labial callosity very pro- 

 nounced, the two labial plica? strong and ascending rapidly upon the 

 body whorl. 



This species differs from R. biplicata Lea by its more numerous 

 spiral striae, its greater oral callosities, and the obliquity and strength 

 of the columellar plica?. R. mississippiensis Con. has plications some- 

 what similar to those of this species, but in other respects it is nearly 

 like R. biplicata. 



Localities. — San Antonio Ferry, Brazos River, Burleson Co. ; 

 between Orrell's and Evergreen Crossing, Elm Creek, Lee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Genus VOLVULA. 

 Volvula? smithvillensis nov. sp. PI. 3, fig. 8. 



Specific characterization. — Shell large anteriorly and centrally but 

 attenuated posteriorly; thick; spirally striate near either terminus; 

 columella with one strong fold. 



This shell has somewhat the form of Actaonella. It differs from 

 V. minutissima by its greater thickness, its greatest diameter being 

 located more to the anterior, and by its thick, strong columellar fold. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon, — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CYLICHNELLA. 



Cylichnella atysopsis nov. sp. PI. 3, fig. 9, a. 

 "I'>/i'i//a minutissima" Gabb, specimen in coll. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Specific characterization. — General form globose as figured; sub- 

 stance of the shell rather thick; spirally striate; columella with one 

 fold ; umbilicated. 



Locality. — Little Brazos River, near iron bridge, on Mosley's 

 Ferry road. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type, — Texas State Museum. Fig. 9a is the so-labelled V. minu- 

 tissima of the Academy collection. 



Genus TEREBRA. 



Terebra texagyra nov. sp. PL 3, fig. 10. 



T. polygyra Heilp., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila,. 1890, p. 398. 



Specific characterization. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls about 15 ; marked as follows : slightly shouldered 

 below the suture; below, two-sevenths of the way to the next suture 

 with a moderately strong spiral stria; ribs about 15 on each whorl, 

 strong above but dying out below, not deflected or dislocated by the 

 subsutural revolving line; columella twisted as shown in the figure. 



Conrad's T. polygyra has a more slender form, with far less 

 prominent plicae. T. divisurum and T. polygyra both show disloca- 

 tion at the subsutural line. T. texagyra resembles T. tantula in 

 some respects, but is less costate and less slender. 



Localities. — Between Orrell's and Evergreen Crossing, on Elm 

 Creek, Lee Co. ; near Crockett and 2 miles west of Crockett, 

 Houston Co. 



This is doubtless, in part at least, the species referred to by 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Aid rich and Meyer as "7'. di visum Con., var." They give as 

 localities, Claiborne and Lisbon, Ala.; Wautubbee and Newton, 

 Miss. ; Wheelock, Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Terebra houstonia nov. sp. PI. 3, fig. 11, and PI. 4, fig. 1. 



T. polygyra Heilp. {non Con. ), Coll. U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 T. vetusta Heilp. {non Lea), Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1890, p. 39S. 

 f T. vetusta Gregorio, Mou. Faun. Eoc. de l'Ala., pi. 1. figs. 40. 41. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated in 

 the figure; whorls 12 or 13, longitudinally ribbed, the ribbing being 

 much coarser in the upper part of the shell than in the lower; suture 

 margined below by an obscurely impressed revolving line; columella 

 straight, smooth, tapering rapidly. 



This species is characterized at once by the height of its whorls in 

 comparison to their respective diameters, the bulging sides of the 

 whorls, the irregularities of the ribbing, and the straight, smooth 

 columella. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. ; near McBee's school-house, 

 Cherokee Co. ;. Little Brazos River, near iron bridge, on Mos- 

 ley's Ferry road; Cedar Creek, Wheelock League, Robertson Co.; 

 Elm Creek, Lee Co. ; near Crockett and 2 miles west of Crockett, 

 Houston Co.; Collard's farm, Sparks' Headright, Brazos Co.; 

 Arnold's Ranch, Frio Co. ; southeast of Campbellton, just south of 

 Lipan Creek, Atascosa Co. Also in Claiborne, Webb, and Bien- 

 ville Parishes, La.; 2 miles east of Newton, Miss.; Claiborne, Ala.; 

 2 miles west of Orangeburg, S. C. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CONUS. 

 Conus smithvillensis nov. sp. PL 4, fig. 2. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured; whorls about 

 12; smaller spiral whorls costate or crenulate; penultimate whorl 

 smooth; body whorl smooth, except about 12 revolving lines at base. 



This species bears much resemblance to the figure given in Proc. 

 Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1879, pi. 13, fig. 8, of "Conn*" pulcher- 

 rimus Heilp., but upon examining the type of this species now in the 

 Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., N. Y. City, it was found to be, as already 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



stated by Meyer, a Pleurotomoid shell. C. parvus of H. C. Lea is 

 evidently the young of sauridens Con. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus PLEUROTOMA. 

 Pleurotoma enstricrina nov. sp. PI. 4, fig. 3. 



Specific characterization. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 10; nuclear whorls 1, 2, 3, 4 smooth, 5 costate, 

 whorls 6, 7, 8, 9 ornamented by (a) a crenulated narrow band below 

 the suture, (b) a narrow concave space in which there are two or 

 three fine but distinct spiral striae, (c) a broad costate band, (d) a 

 spiral line or two, body whorl marked below the costate band by 

 coarse spiral lines and with more or less apparent lines of growth. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Figured Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. (Pleurotomella) anacona nov. sp. PI. 4, fig. 4. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured; whorls 8; 1 

 nearly or quite smooth; 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 with (a) a broad slightly con- 

 cave band showing very faint spiral striae and a deep retral curve 

 in the longitudinal striae, (b) a slight basal carina with two or three 

 strong spiral lines and rather faint, slightly oblique nodules; body 

 whorl with more or less alternating coarse and fine spiral lines from 

 the nodose carina to the end of the beak. 



Localities. — Well at Elgin, northeast corner of Bastrop County; 

 Smiley' s Bluff, Brazos River, 2 miles above Pond Creek, and per- 

 haps on Rocky Cedar Creek, 5 miles west of Elmo. 



Geological horizon. — Midway Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. (Surcula) gabbi Con. PI. 4, fig. 5. 



Surcula gabbi Con., Am. Jour. Conch., vol. 1, 1865, p. 142, pi. 11, fig. 5. 

 Pleurotoma platyzona Heilp., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, p. 150, fig. 3. 

 Pleurotoma alveata Con., Coll. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



In adult specimens thei'e are 12 whorls; of the 5 nuclear, 1, 2, 

 and 3 are smooth, while 4 and 5 are prominently costate. Heilprin's 

 platyzona is an eroded specimen of this species. 



This is one of the commonest fossils in the Texan Lower Claiborne 

 Eocene and is specially abundant in Bastrop, Burleson, Lee and 

 Houston Counties. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Figured specimen. — -Texas State Museum. 



Type. — Probably the specimen in the Academy's collection. 



PI. (Surcula) moorei Gabb. PI. 4, fig. 6, a, b. 



Turris moorei Gabb, Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila.. vol. 4, 1860, p. 378, pi. 67, 



fig. 11 (not fig. 9 as stated in Gabb's text). 

 Pleurotoma tuomeyi Aldrich, Bull. Geol. Surv. Ala., No. 1, 1886, p. 31, pi. 3, 



fig. 11. 

 Pleurotoma tuomeyi Heilprin, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 394. 

 Surcula moorei Heilp., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 394. 



This species shows considerable variation in form as indicated by 

 figs. 6, 6a, 6b. The specimen in the collection of the Academy is 

 of about the form and size of that represented by fig. 6, though it 

 shows more prominent denticulations on the spire, approaching fig. 

 6b in this respect. Specimens of this species in the U. S. Nat. 

 Mus. collection from Wood's Bluff, Ala. , are slightly stouter in form, 

 i.e., have a shorter spire. This, however, is not always the case, 

 for Aldrich's type from this locality is of nearly the normal form. 

 The Alabama specimens all show denticulations on the upper spiral 

 stria?, a feature apparently overlooked by Aldrich when describing 

 his Tuomeyi. 



Localities. — Smith ville, Bastrop Co.; Little Brazos River, Cedar 

 Creek, Wheelock League, Robertson Co.; Mosley's Ferry, Burleson 

 Co.; Elm Creek, Lee Co.; Alabama Bluff, Trinity River, Houston 

 Co., Texas. Also from Wood's Bluff, Ala. 



Type. — Probably lost. 



Geological horizon. — Lignitic, and Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Pleurotoma beadata nov. sp. PI. 4, fig. 7. 



Specific characterization. — General form as shown in the figure; 

 whorls 9 ; 1, 2, 3 smooth, 4, 5 transversely costate, 6, 7, 8 obliquely 

 costate, the costse most pronounced not far below the suture and 

 dying out below, evenly and coarsely striate spirally; suture bor- 

 dered below by a raised crenulated line; body whorl either costate 

 on its humeral portion or plain ; evenly striate spirally ; retral sinus 

 shallow, canal long, straight. 



Locality. — Smith ville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Pleurotoma vaughani nov. sp. PI. 4, fig. 8. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by the 

 figure; whorls about 11 ; 1, 2, 3 smooth and very small, 4 nodular, 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



5 nodular and with a subsutural line or band; 6, 7, 8, as 5, but 

 also striate spirally ; 9, 10 nodular costate, costse showing a slight 

 tendency to become oblique, mainly confined to the lower moiety of 

 the whorls, strongly striate below, and with two noticeably large 

 striae on the carina, faintly striate above; body whorl with rather 

 coarse spiral lines alternating in size from the carinal region to the 

 end of the beak, supercarinal region faintly striate, cost?e obscure, 

 labrum striate within. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co.; Hurricane Bayou, Marsters' 

 Survey, Houston Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Pleurotoma kuppertzi nov. sp. PI. 4, fig. 9. 



Specific characterization . — Size and general form as indicated in 

 the figure; whorls 11; 1, 2 smooth, 3-10 somewhat inflated sub- 

 medially, longitudinal costse obtuse, most prominent submedially, 

 almost vanishing on the subsutural portions of* the whorls, becoming 

 short and nodular on the upper whorls, prominently striate spirally, 

 the stria? often irregular and waving on the medial portions of the 

 whorls; body whorl costate and spirally striate, stria 1 becoming of 

 alternating strength on the beak. 



Localities. — Bombshell Bluff, Colorado River, about 1* miles 

 west-northwest of Devil's Eye; Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



A very closely allied form occurs at Wood's Bluff, Ala. The 

 main difference consists in the different location of the retral sinus. 

 In the Alabama specimens it is located on the humeral angle while 

 in the Texan it is about one-third way from this angle to the suture. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Variety penrosei nov. var. PI. 4, fig. 10. 



Differs from typical liuppertzi in having the whorls more acutely 

 carinated, the striation above the carina is evanescent, and the length 

 of the canal is often less in proportion to the height of the spire. 



Localities. — Same as for hupperfzi. 



Geological horizon.— I x>wer Claiborne Eocene. 



Type specimen. — Texas State Museum. 



Pleurotoma leoncola nov. sp. PI. 5, fig. 1. 



Specific characterization. — General form and size as indicated by 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



the figure; whorls 9; apical 11 smooth, rather large, remaining 

 whorls carinated centrally, and with evenly arranged rather low- 

 but distinct costa?, more prominent below the carina than above it, 

 twelve in Dumber on the body whorl; surface microscopically striate 

 spirally, and with very fine lines of growth ; aperture a little over 

 one-half the whole length of the shell; columella long and slightly 

 twisted below. 



Locality. — 7 miles south of Jewett, Leon Co. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Collection of T. H. Aldrich, Birmingham, Ala. 



PI. (Drillia) dumblei now sp. PI. 5, fig. 2. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated in the 

 figure ; whorls about 10, strongly carinated, concave above, convex 

 below, spiral stria? much more noticeable below the carina than 

 above it; beak short, twisted, umbilicated. 



Locality. — ?Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. (Drillia) dipta nov. sp. PI. 5, fig. 3. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown in the 

 figure; whorls 9; 1, 2 smooth, 3 longitudinally costate, 4-8 medially 

 carinate, carina ornamented by oblique nodules, just below the suture 

 there is a raised line or band ; body whorl with less prominent carinal 

 nodules, but with a few well-defined raised spiral lines ; canal short, 

 slightly curved. 



Locality. — Baptizing Creek, Kimble Headright, Cherokee Co., 

 Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. (Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb. PI. 5, fig. 4. 



Turris nodocarinata Gabb, Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Pbila., vol. 4, 1860, p. 379, pi. 

 67, fig. 13. 



Gabb's figure of this species is exceedingly poor and his types at 

 the Philadelphia Academy are in a state of confusion. In one lot 

 labelled " Turris nodocarinata Gabb, Eocene, Tex.," in Gabb's 

 handwriting may be seen P. nodocarinata, young of P. moorei, child- 

 reni var. , and terebriformis. On the card bearing the name Turris 

 nodocarinata may be seen : PI. nodocarinata, childreni var. , and 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



terebriformis. All those labelled PL nodocarinata in Heilprin's 

 Texan collection are terebriformis. 



The specimen herewith figured is large and well developed, while 

 Gabb's specimen was evidently small. The sutural crenulation dis- 

 appears on the larger whorls. Fine revolving striae are often seen on 

 the zone between the suture and carina. 



Localities. — Two miles above San Jose on the Rio Grande; Smith- 

 ville, Bastrop Co. ; Wheelock, Robertson Co. ; Mosley's Ferry, 

 Brazos River, Burleson Co. ; Cedar Creek, southeast corner of 

 Wheelock League, Robertson Co. ; Elm Creek, Lee Co. ; Alabama 

 Bluff, Trinity River, Houston Co. ; Hurricane Bayou, near Crockett, 

 Houston Co.; 2 miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co. ; 1 mile south of 

 Nevilles, Gonzales Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Types. — ? Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



PI. (Drillia) prosseri nov. sp. PI. 5, fig. 5. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls about 8; 1, 2, and sometimes 3, smooth; 4, 5, 

 6, 7 polished, a slightly raised band just below the suture, costse 

 large, obtuse, and somewhat obliquely set; body whorl with sub- 

 sutural band not well defined, humeral area slightly concave and 

 gently waved by the upward extension of the ribs, which are very 

 large below; beak slightly striate spirally. 



Localities. — Near Smithville, Bastrop Co.; Little Brazos River, 

 near iron bridge on Mosley's Ferry road; near Crockett, Houston 

 County. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



This species is distinguished from huppertzi, kellogi, and varieties by 

 its polished surface, its more pointed apex, the length and obliquity 

 of the ribs, and its size. 



PI. (Drillia) kellogi Gabb. PI. 5, fig. 6. 



Turris kellogi Gabb, Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 4, 1860, p. 379, pl. 67, 



fig. 10. 

 Surcula kellogi Con., Am. Jr. Concb., vol. 1, 1865, p. 18. 

 Surcula kelloggi Heilp., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 394. 



The two type specimens in the Philadelphia Academy's collection 

 differ but little from the specimen herewith figured. The only point 

 worthy of note is that in those specimens the length of the aperture 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



is not quite so great in comparison with the whole length of the 

 shell. 



This species is characterized mainly by its slim spire, blunt apex, 

 and raised line at. the suture. 



Localities. — Hurricane Bayou, Marsters' Surv. , near Crockett, 

 Houston Co., and, according to Gabb, "Wheelock, Tex." 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



PI. (Drillia) texacona, nom. mut. PI. 5, fig. 7. 

 Drillia texana Con. non Gabb, Amer. Jr. Conch., vol. 1, 1865, p. 143. 



Localities. — Little Brazos River, near iron bridge on Mosley's 

 Ferry road; Cedar Creek, Wheelock League, Robertson Co.; 

 Jones' farm, Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co.; Elm Creek, Lee Co., 

 Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Probably the specimens in the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia. 



PI. (Drillia) texanopsis nov. sp. PI. 5, fig. 8. 



Specific characterization. — Form in general as figured, though the 

 specimen drawn was young; whorls about 12; 1-5 smooth, tapering 

 to a sharp point ; other spiral whorls scarcely distinguishable from 

 those of texacona, body whorl with faint revolving striae, becoming 

 stronger below; beak long, straight. 



On the last or body whorl the costse often become obsolete and a 

 more or less distinct carina is developed ; above which, or between 

 which and the suture, the shoulder is slightly concave. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co.; Bombshell 61116", Colorado 

 River, Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Pleurotoma insignifica Heilp. PI. 5, fig. 9. 



J^nsus nanus Lea, Cont. to Geol., 1833, p. 150, pi. 5, fig. 155. 



Pleurotoma insignifica Heilp., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Pbjla., 1879, p. 213, pi. 13, 



fig. 9. 

 Pleurotoma nana Meyer, Bericht iiber die Senckenbergische Naturforschende 



Gesellschaft in Frankfurt, a. M. Sender- Ausdruck. 1887, p. 18. 

 Fusus (Lirofusus) nanus De Greg., Mon. Faun. Eoc. Ala., p. 87. 



This species shows considerable variation at Claiborne. As a rule 

 the larger specimens are not so strongly cariuated as the specimen 

 herewith illustrated. The type specimen of Fusus nanus at the 

 Philadelphia Academy has been compared with the Texan form and 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



there seems to be no reason for doubting their identity. Meyer was 

 right in referring this species to Pleurotoma, and PI. nana would 

 stand were it not for the fact that Deshayes in 1824 (Desc. Coq. Foss. 

 des Env. de Paris, p. 482, vol. 2, pi. 68, figs. 19, 20, 21, 22) used the 

 same name for a Paris Basin shell. Cossman has referred Deshayes' 

 shell to the genus Homotoma (Bellardi, 1875) and has also referred 

 other specimens to this genus which in general resemble Lea's and 

 Heilprin's figures of nana Lea, and insignifiea Heilp. At any rate 

 the generic affinities of nana Lea, and nana Deshayes are too close 

 to allow the retention of Lea's name; accordingly Heilprin's name, 

 insignifiea, must be adopted. 



Lea's and Heilprin's characterization of this form being very im- 

 perfect, the following is offered: — 



Size and general form as shown by the figure; whorls 8-10 ; 1,2, 

 3 smooth, 4-8 with (a) a subsutural line, (b) a broad, faintly marked 

 concave zone, (c) a strong carinal stria and just above it sometimes a 

 faint line, (d) a strong subcarinal revolving line; body whorl with the 

 subsutural line or band ; the concave zone marked by curving longi- 

 tudinal striae and faint spirals; carinal angle 110°; subcarinal space 

 with about twenty-five revolving lines somewhat alternating in size; 

 labrum within sometimes with one or two blunt, tooth-like elevations 

 located back some distance from the margin. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co.; Little Brazos River, near 

 iron bridge, on Mosley's Ferry road. Also Claiborne, Ala. 



Geological horizon. — Lower and Upper Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Of nana at the Philadelphia Academy, of insignifiea at 

 Mus. Nat. Hist. N. Y. 



PI. (Mangilia) infans Mr. PI. 5, fig. 10. 



iScobinella Icevipiicata Gabb, Jr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 4, 1860, p. 380, pi. 



67, fig. 20. 

 Scobinella hcviplicala Aid., MS., pi. 1, fig. 11. 

 Pleurotoma infans Meyer, Bull. Geol. Surv. Ala., No. 1, 1866, pi. 2, fig. 9. 



Meyer's specimens were evidently all young or imperfect, for in 

 the well-grown examples from Texas there are four adult whorls. 

 Moreover they show two large tooth-like projections on the inside of 

 the labrum, and not unfrequently two small plaits on the columella. 

 On the smooth sinus zone thei-e is sometimes a fine spiral line, occa- 

 sionally there are two. 



Localities. — Meyer gives for localities Red Bluff, Newton, and 

 Vicksburg, Miss. In the collection of the U. S. Nat. Mus. it occurs 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



from Calhoun Co., Fla. In Texas: Smith ville, Bastrop Co.; Col- 

 lege Sta., Brazos Co.; 2 miles west of Crockett, and on Jones' 

 farm, Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co.; Collard's farm, Town Branch, 

 Brazos Co. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene, Vicksburg Eocene, 

 Lower Miocene. 



Type. — Aldrich's collection. 



PI. (Borsonia) plenta uov. sp. (by Aid. and Har.). PI. 5, fig. 11, a. 



Specific characterization. — General form as indicated by the figure; 

 whorls 13 or 14; 1, 2, 3 smooth, globose; 4 slightly nodular or sub- 

 costate submedially and with an elevation just below the suture ; 5, 

 6, 7 subcarinate with nodules on the carinas; 8, 9, 10, 11 carinate 

 submedially, carina bisected by a depressed spiral line; space be- 

 tween the carina and suture above concave, traversed by about six 

 spiral striae of equal size, with a slightly elevated band just below 

 the suture; 12 and 13 obtusely carinate with about six fine lines 

 above and four below; body whorl finely striated above the carina 

 and for a short distance below, thence coarsely or alternately striate 

 to the end of the canal ; outer lip sharp, liras within exclusively con- 

 fined to the inflated portion of the shell and disappearing some dis- 

 tance before reaching the margin of the lip; inner lip very thin 

 showing only on well-preserved specimens; columella with one strong 

 plait located three-fourths of the way from the base to the upper 

 terminus of the aperture. 



In a few specimens there are traces of a second plait on the colu- 

 mella a short distance below the one referred to above. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. (rare); Wheelock, Robert- 

 son Co.; Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River, Burleson Co.; Cedar Creek, 

 Wheelock League, Robertson Co.; College Sta., Brazos Co.; Camp- 

 bell Creek, Robertson Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. (Eucheilodon) reticulatoides nov. sp. PI. 5, fig. 12. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls about 10; 1, 2, 3 smooth, tapering rapidly to a 

 point; 4 more or less costate; remaining whorls ornamented as fol- 

 lows : just below the suture, a raised line or band, below which a 

 sunken zone is marked in the larger whorls by from one to three 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



spiral incised lines crossed obliquely by lines of growth giving this 

 portion of the whorl a cancellated appearance ; on the body whorl, 

 below the three or four cancellated strong medial spiral lines, there 

 are from 15 to 18 more or less crenulated spiral lines, tending in 

 some instances to alternate in size ; labrum within with strong lira- 

 tions; columella rather long, straight, and with one strong plait located 

 above the middle, below which there are generally several minor folds, 

 decreasing in size downward. 



In many of its features this species is intermediate between the 

 young of Borsonia plenta as here figured and Eucheilodon reticulata. 



Locality. — Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River, Tex. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PL (Taranis) finexa nov. sp. PL 5, fig, 13. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 6; 2 nuclear, smooth; remaining whorls with (a) 

 a subsutural raised ridge, (b) a strong medial carina, (c) a prominent 

 raised line between the carina and the suture below, (d) fine costse 

 passing perpendicularly on the lower half of the whorl and obliquely 

 to the left from the carina' to the suture above; body whorl bicari- 

 nate, between the two carime, a strong raised line, below the carina 

 about six raised spiral lines; columella slightly concave; labrum 

 within showing channels and ridges corresponding to the exterior 

 marking. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PL (Clathurella?) fannse nov. sp. PL 5, fig. 14. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 7 ; 1-3 smooth, 4 finely and obliquely costate, 

 remaining whorls cancellated by narrow costse and \ super-humeral 

 and 4 sub- humeral raised lirse ; columella long, straight, and smooth. 



Locality. — Collier's Ferry, Brazos River, Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PL (Beta) rebeccae nov. sp. PL 5, fig. 15. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown by the 

 figure; whorls 7; 1 and 2 small, smooth, 3 finely costate longitudi- 

 nally; remaining whorls with (a) a sub-sutural raised line, (b) one 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



or two humeral lines, (c) one prominent line on the humeral angle, 

 (d) many alternating lines below, (e) numerous costse (15 on the 

 body whorl), most prominent on the humeral angle. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CANCELLARIA. 

 Cancellaria panones nov. sp. PI. 6, fig. 1. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown in the 

 figure; whorls 5; 1 and 2 smooth; 3 and 4 with sharp Scala-like 

 costre, shoulder narrow, slightly convex; body whorl shouldered as 3 

 and 4, with about fifteen smooth sharp costse, spirally striate below; 

 mouth ovate triangular, with about ten labrum crenulse and three 

 columellar folds ; umbilicus not very large. 



In this species the ribs are often somewhat irregular. On the 

 spiral whorls two or three ribs are considerably larger than the 

 others. The costse just behind the aperture are generally of small 

 size or evanescent. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co.; 2 miles east Of Alto, Chero- 

 kee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



C. panones, var. smithvillensis nov. var. PL 6, fig. 2. 



Differs from the typical form in having spiral strise ; about four 

 on the lower spiral whorls and fourteen on the body whorl. The 

 mouth is slightly larger in proportion to the length of the shell. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co.; Little Brazos River, near 

 iron bridge on Mosley's Ferry road; Orrell's crossing, Elm Creek, 

 Lee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



C. panones, var. junipera nov. var. PI. (i, fig. 3. 



In this variety the spiral strise are quite numerous, the mouth is 

 small in comparison with the length of the shell, and there are but 

 two prominent columellar folds. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. ; Bluff on Colorado River, 

 just below the mouth of Alum Creek, not far above Smithville; 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Cedar Creek, southeast corner of Wheelock League, Robertson Co., 

 Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Cancellaria penrosei nov. sp. PI. 6, fig. 4. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 5; 1, 2, 2? smooth; 3, 4 cancellated by about 

 18 sharp ribs over which pass 5 spiral lines, the uppermost on the 

 humeral angle and some little distance above the others; body whorl 

 with about eighteen costal and twelve revolving lines, the uppermost 

 of which, on the humeral angle is separated from the next below by 

 a double space; aperture with two columellar folds and about six 

 labral crenulse; umbilicus moderate. Surface not polished as in the 

 two above-described species. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. ; Dr. Williams' quarry, R. 

 Stephenson's Headright, Brazos Co., Tex. 



Geological liorizon.— Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Cancellaria bastropensis nov. sp. PI. 6, fig. 5. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown in the 

 figure; whorls 7; nuclear whorls 2?, of which two are smooth, and 

 the last half finely cancellated ; 4, 5, 6 somewhat irregularly cos- 

 tate, about ten costse on the penultimate whorl; spiral striae few and 

 strong on the sides of the whorls, but becoming more closely set and 

 finer on the subsutural region ; body whorl with irregular, obtuse 

 costie crossed by about fourteen spiral lines, strong medially but de- 

 creasing in size towards the suture; labral dentes six on a raised 

 ridge; columella with two distinct folds and a rudimentary third be- 

 low ; umbilicus rudimentary. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Cancellaria ulmula nov. sp. PI. 6, fig. 6. 



Specific characteristics. — Size and general form as indicated by the 

 figure; whorls 4; 1, 2 smooth; 3 with seven spiral stria? ; body whorl 

 with about eighteen strong revolving lines and an equal number of 

 intercalated fine stria?, lines of growth prominent; columella with 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



two prominent folds on its central portion and a third, rudimentary 

 one below; umbilicus small. 



Locality. — Elm Creek, Lee Co.,- Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Cancellaria ellapsa Con., Anier. Jour. Conch., vol. 1, 1865, p. 212, pi. 21 (not 20), 

 fig. 8. 



This Conrad describes as an Eocene species from Texas, but it 

 proves upon examination to be nothing but " Trichotropis cancellaria 

 Con.," a species described by Conrad from the Ripley Cretaceous beds 

 of Mississippi. The Texas specimen was probably derived from the 

 upper Cretaceous not far below Austin. 



Genus VOLVARIA. 



Volvaria gabbiana now sp. PI. 6, fig. 7. 

 Marginella ( Voh'aria) gabbiana AM., MS., pi. 2, fig. 13. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown by the 

 tigure; whorls 3; 1, smooth; 2, spirally striate; body whorl long 

 cylindrical, spirally striate with faint punctations in the strise; 

 labrum sharp-edged ; labium with four basal folds varying in size 

 as follows : at base a moderate sized fold, above, a stronger one, still 

 above, a moderate sized one, and above all, a very faint one. 



Localities. — Devil's Eye, Colorado River, Bastrop Co. ; bluff just 

 below the mouth of Alum Creek, Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus VOLTTTILITHES. 



Volutilitb.es dalli now sp. Pi. 6, fig. 8, a. 



Caricclla reticulata Heilp., non Aid., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1890, p. 396. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figures; whorls about 7; spiral whorls and shoulder of the body 

 whorl generally coarsely cancellated with revolving lines and trans- 

 verse costse; humeral angle of the body whorl often spinose; medial 

 portion of the body whorl with finer but very distinct revolving 

 strise and fine lines of growth ; base of body whorl as in other mem- 

 bers of this genus; labrum strongly lirate within; columella with 

 two well-defined oblique plaits and sometimes one or more rudimen- 

 tary ones. 



The amount of reticulation or ornamentation possessed by different 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



individuals of this species varies greatly. Some specimens are quite 

 smooth on the medial portion of the body whorl, and show but slight 

 irregularities on the shoulder. A form of this character is shown in 

 fig. 8a. Such specimens have usually two well-marked folds on the 

 columella and no trace of additional ones. 



This species is evidently related to V. haleanus Whitfd., but is 

 less strongly sculptured, and wants the peculiar concave humeral 

 zone of that species. Moreover, haleanus has three distinct and well- 

 defined columellar plaits. 



This species is named in honor of W. H. Dall, the well-known 

 authority on Volutidw. 



Localities. — Smithville; Cedar Creek, Robertson Co. , Tex. 



Horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CARICELLA. 



Caricella demissa Con., var. texana Gabb. PI. 6, fig. 9. 



Cimbiola texana Gabb, Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 4, p. 382, pi. 67, fig. 33. 

 Caricella demissa Harris, Exp. Sta. Kept., pt. 1, Geol. and Agr. , 1892. A Pre- 

 liminary Eeport upon the Hills of La., by Otto Lerch, p. 29. 



Gabb cites his C. texana from " Wheelock, Tex." His specimen 

 was evidently small and badly preserved. Normally there are six 

 whorls. The columella is considerably recurved, but this is a feature 

 that could not be determined from a specimen lacking its anterior 

 canal as did Gabb's type. The ornamentation of the spiral whorls 

 consists of revolving lines, more distinct above, and more or less 

 regular and apparent longitudinal plaits. Below the suture there is 

 a slight constriction. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. ; Alabama Bluff, Trinity 

 River, Houston Co.; Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co., Tex. Also 

 near Mt. Lebanon, Bienville Parish, La. 



Geological horizon of this variety.— Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Caricella subangulata Conrad, var. cherokeensis nov. var. PI. 6, fig. 10. 



Variety characteristics. — Size and general form as indicated in the 

 figure; whorls 5; 1 mammillated; 2, 3, 4 spirally striate, suture 

 distinct ; body whorl shouldered, spirally striate above and also at 

 the base of the whorl ; columellar plaits four, the lower two more 

 oblique. 



Typical subangulata is larger, but with about one less whorl, and 

 with lower and more obtuse spire. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Localities. — Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River, Burleson Co.; two 

 miles west of Crockett, Houston Co.; Collier's Ferry, Burleson Co.; 

 two miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co. ; Collard's farm, Sparks' Head- 

 right, Brazos Co., Texas. 



Geological horizon of the variety. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type of the variety. — Texas Stale Museum. 



Genus TURRICULA. 

 Turricula (Conomitra) texana nov. sp. PI. 6, fig. 11. 



Specific characterization. — Size and form as indicated in the figure; 

 whorls 5; nuclear whorl obtuse, smooth; other spiral whorls orna- 

 mented by longitudinal costns, and a slight, subsutural depression; 

 body whorl with much more numerous costse, a slight subsutural de- 

 pression, surface without a trace of spiral lines and polished ; colu- 

 mella 4-plaited, the penultimate the largest; labrum crenulate within. 



Localities. — Well at College Sta. , Brazos Co.; Alabama Bluff, 

 Trinity River, Houston Co.; Hurricane Bayou, near Crockett, Hous- 

 ton Co.; Collard's farm, Town Branch, Brazos Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus LEVIFUSUS. 

 Levifusus trabeatoides nov. sp. PI. 6, fig. 12, a. 



Ft/sits trabeatus Heilp. (not Con.), Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 395. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured ; whorls 8 or 9; 

 1, 2, 3 smooth and polished, 4 sub-biangulate, 5, 6 with one spiral 

 line just below the suture and two or three more near the base of 

 each whorl where they are crossed by sharp, fine, costaa, 7 evenly 

 striate spirally showing more or less distinct costae and curving lines 

 of growth; body whorl evenly striate, bicarinate, with faint indica- 

 tions of tubercles on each carina, lines of growth with a retral curve 

 above the upper carina resembling those of Surcula; labrum strongly 

 striate within. 



Below the tw T o prominent carime there is a third faint one. Large 

 old specimens sometimes show on the body whorl one very strong 

 carina above, while the two lower are rudimentary. Fragments 

 have been obtained which would indicate a total length of an entire 

 specimen of at least three inches. 



The generic name Levifusus, as far as the writer is aware, has 

 never been characterized ; yet since Conrad has referred to it the 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



species formerly described as Fusua trabeatus and Busyeonf blakei, 

 its characters must be fairly familiar to every worker in Tertiary 

 paleontology. They may be summed up as follows: — 



Shell of Fulgurate aspect and affinities (not Fusoid as the name 

 unfortunately indicates) ; with three carina? on the body whorl, the 

 uppermost strongest and generally spinose, the 6econd less distinct 

 and less frequently spinose, the third or lowest generally faint and 

 obtuse and with no signs of tubercles or spines. 



Besides the two species referred to this genus by Conrad, the 

 writer has added two more, viz., Levifusus branneri, originally de- 

 scribed from the White Bluff horizon of Arkansas, and L. trabeat- 

 oides. 



At Wood's Bluff, Ala., there is a form of Levifusus with charac- 

 ters intermediate between L. trabeatus and L. trabeatoides and it is 

 doubtless the ancestral type of both. This prototype may then be 

 regarded as having produced the true L. trabeatus in Alabama, 

 while in Texas the L. trabeatoides was developed. L. blakei is 

 somewhat more tuberculate on its uppermost carina than L. trabeatus 

 or L. trabeatoides but is not so strongly marked as L. branneri; 

 the last- mentioned species the writer has recently found in typical 

 Jackson Eocene deposits at Moody's Branch, Jackson, Miss. 



Localities. — Rio Grande, 2 miles above San Jose, Tex.; Mosley's 

 Ferry, Brazos River; Colorado River, bluff just below the mouth of 

 Alum Creek ; Rio Grande, 15 miles below Carrizo; Little Brazos 

 River, near iron bridge on Mosley's Ferry road; Brazos River, 500 

 yards below the mouth of Little Brazos; Cedar Creek, southeast 

 corner of Wheelock League, Robertson Co.; Smithville, Bastrop Co.; 

 Alum Bluff, Trinity River, Houston Co.; Campbell Creek, Robert- 

 sou Co.; 2 miles west of Crockett, Houston Co.; northwest corner of 

 Madisou Co.; Jones' farm, Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co.; Orrell's 

 crossing, Elm Creek, Lee Co. ; cutting on Houston, East & West 

 Texas R. R., 4 miles north of Corrigan, Polk Co.; southeast corner 

 of Frio Co. ; southeast of Campbellton, south of Lipan Creek, Atas- 

 cosa Co. Also at Gibbsland, Bienville Park, La., and Walnut Bluff, 

 Ouachita River, Ark. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 




189o.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Genus LATIRUS. 

 Latirus singleyi nov. sp. PI. 6, fig. 13. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown by the 

 figure; whorls 9?; 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 marked by obtuse rounded ribs, 

 which extend from suture to suture, by five strong, waving spiral 

 lines on each whorl, and by fine, sharp, and even lines of growth 

 most plainly visible between the costse ; body whorl with six obtuse 

 costaB and about. 24 raised spiral lines which, in the humeral region, 

 consists of one strong series between which finer lines alternate, but 

 below all become equal; lines of growth sharp and distinct, but fine; 

 columella with two strong, oblique folds and a rudimentary one be- 

 low; labium extending in a thin polished plate over the columella; 

 umbilicus rudimentary. 



Locality. — Elm Creek, Lee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 

 Latirus singleyi var. PL 6, fig. 13a. 



This is smaller than the typical form and more slender with less 

 distinct lines of growth. 



Locality. — Hurricane Bayou, near Crockett, Houston Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type.- — Texas State Museum. 



Genus STREPSIDURA. 

 Strepsidura ficus Gabb. PI. 7, fig. 1. 



Whitneva ficus Gabb, Geol. Surv. Cala., Paleont., vol. 1, 1864, p. 104, pi. 28, 



fig. 216. 

 f Bulbifusus inauratus Heilp., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 396. 



The specimen figured is about one- half the size of the California 

 types and is eroded at the summit. Other specimens, though upon 

 the whole less perfect, show the surface markings much better than 

 the figured specimen does. 



Localities.— "Ft. Tejou, Cal.," Gabb; Alum Creek Bluff, Colo- 

 rado River, not far above Smith ville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus FUSUS. 

 Tusus bastropensis nov. sp. PI. 7, fig. 2. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated in 

 the figure; whorls 13 or 14; 1 and 2 very minute, smooth, 3 and 4 

 transversely costate, 5-12 with nodose obtuse ribs, distinct in 5, 6, 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



* 



etc., but less marked in 11 and 12, crossed by six or seven spiral 

 raised lines, coarse or strong near the base of each whorl; one spiral 

 line, generally the second from the base forms a slight carination on 

 the whorls; body whorl with broad nodulations, about seven in num- 

 ber, and with strong spiral raised lines, the two on the largest part 

 of the whorls being largest, above which there are two or three well- 

 marked lines and below which to the end of the canal the lines 

 gradually decrease in size and are more or less alternating; labrum, 

 as far as observed, non-striate within; columella long, smooth, and 

 straight. 



This resembles somewhat F. meyeri Aid. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. Also in Claiborne and 

 Bienville Parishes, La. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type.— Coll. of G. D. Harris. 



Fusus ostrarupis nov. sp. PI. 7, fig. 3. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured; whorls 8; 1 

 and 2 smooth and polished, 3 sometimes polished, with long, undu- 

 lating costse, 4, 5, 6, 7 evenly striate spirally, and with seven or 

 eight longitudinal costye; costse decreasing in size about or just be- 

 low the suture where a slightly depressed zone occurs ; body whorl 

 with eight or ten costre somewhat variable in size, subsutural zone 

 much compressed, spiral striae moderately even but slightly strongest 

 on the largest part of the whorl ; labrum strongly striate within ; 

 columella recurving; umbilicus rudimentary. 



Locality. — Smiley 's Bluff, Brazos River, 2 miles above the mouth 

 of Pond Creek, Milam Co., Tex. Oyster Bluff of Penrose's Report. 



Geological horizon. — Midway Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 

 Fusus mortoni, var. mortoniopsis Gabb. PI. 7, fig. 4. 

 Fusus mortoni Lea, var. carexus nov. var. PI. 7, fig. 5. 



Differs from mortoniopsis Gabb, which is doubtless a variety only 

 of mortoni Lea, by having a strong carina, one additional spiral line 

 on the shoulder and less strongly alternating on the canal. The shell 

 is much broader in proportion to its height and has a lower spire. 



Locality. — Between Orrell's and Evergreen Crossing, Elm Creek ; 

 Lee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 




1895.] NATUKAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA . 73 



Genus CLAVILITHES. 

 Clavilithes regexus nov. sp. PI. 7. fig. 6. 



This species is too poorly represented in the collection of the Sur- 

 vey to admit of complete characterization specifically. It is compar- 

 able in size with G. penrosei Heilp., and resembles the latter in the 

 lower part of the whorls and in the long, smooth columella. Above, 

 however, it shows no traces of a shoulder, the whorls are slightly 

 flattened laterally, and are smooth and polished. 



Localities. — Near McBee School- house, Cherokee Co.; between 

 Orrell's and Evergreen Crossing, Elm Creek, Lee Co.; 2 miles west 

 of Crockett, Houston Co.; Berryman Place, Kimble Headright, 

 Cherokee Co. ; 3 miles north of Crockett, Houston Co. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Collection. 



Clavilitlies humerosus Conrad, var. texanus nov. var. PI. 7, fig. 7. 



Differs from typical humerosus in having the sides of the body 

 whorl nearly rectilinear, in having a more prominent shoulder at the 

 suture, and in being of a smaller size generally. Many specimens 

 approach closely Clavilithes longcevus of the middle Eocene of Europe. 



Localities. — Near McBee school-house, Cherokee Co. ; Alum Creek 

 Bluff, Colorado River, Bastrop Co.; Wilson Reid Headright, Brazos 

 Co.; Hurricane Bayou, Hodge's Headright, Houston Co.; north- 

 west corner of Madison County ; Collier's Ferry, Burleson Co. ; 

 Collard farm, Sparks' Headright, Brazos Co., Tex. Also in Clai- 

 borne and Bienville Parishes, La., and 2? miles east of Newton, near 

 Enterprise, Miss. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Clavilithes kennedyanus nov. sp. PI, 7, fig. 8. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured; whorls 10 or 

 12; 1 and 2 probably smooth; 3-10 with nodular ribs most promi- 

 nent on the lower portions of the whorls, crossed by raised spiral 

 lines and by even lines of growth ; body whorl in the type specimen 

 very poorly preserved, but showing few signs of costse; columella 

 ponderous. 



Locality. — Smith ville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Clavilithes (Papillina) dumosus Con., var. trapaquarus nov. var. PI. 8, fig. 1. 

 Fusus {Papillina) dumosus Harris, La. Exp. Sta., 1892. Rept. on the Hills of 

 La., p. 29. 



This is a heavier, more solid form than the typical dumosus; it has 

 about two more spines on the body whorl and has a smaller apex. 



Localities. — Brazos River, 1 mile below Milam- Burleson County 

 line; near McBee School-house, Cherokee Co.; Alum Bluff, Trinity 

 River, Houston Co.; 5 miles west of Crockett, Houston Co. ; Hurri- 

 cane Bayou, Marsters' Survey, near Crockett, Collier's Ferry, Bra- 

 zos River, Burleson Co. ; north of College, Crockett, Houston Co. ; 

 Dr. Collard's farm, Sparks Headright, Brazos Co. In Louisiana, 

 near Mt. Lebanon, Bienville Parish. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CHRYSODOMUS. 

 Chrysodomus parbrazana nov. sp. PI. 7, fig. 9. 



Specific characterization. — General size and form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 6; spiral whorls smooth, with a faint subsutural 

 spiral line ; body whorl ornamented with the subsutural line and 

 about ten basal spiral lines ; outer lip sharp edged, lirate within. 



Locality. — Little Brazos River, near iron bridge, on Mosley's 

 Ferry road. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus ASTYRIS. 

 Astyris bastropensis nov. sp. PI. 8, fig. 2. 



Specific characterization. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 10; 1, 2, 3 smooth and polished; 4 costate ; 

 5-9 smooth and polished, sometimes one spiral line at base of 8 and 

 9 ; body whorl smooth above the upper terminus of the aperture, 

 strongly striate below. 



The general outline of the shell is strikingly like that of Turricula 

 polita. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus MUREX. 

 Murex fusates nov. sp. PI. S, fig. 5. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 8; 1, 2, 3, 4 smooth and polished, very small ; 




1895.] NATUKAL, SCIENC !ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



5, b\ 7 with about three coarse revolving raised Hues, with obtuse 

 regular longitudinal costse; body whorl with regular strong raised 

 lines on its larger portion and finer ones below, also with seven 

 obtuse cos tie over which the spiral lines pass; labrum with five or 

 six crenulatious within ; a basal Nassa-like fold on the columella. 



In a general way this species resembles M. vanuxemi Con., but the 

 costse are very different and show no signs of forming acute angles, 

 folds or spines. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. , Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Subgenus ODONTOPOLYS. 



M. (Odontopolys) compsorhytis Gabb. PI. 8, fig. 6. 



M. ( Odont. ) compsorhytis Gabb, Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 4, 1860, p. 377, 



pi. 67, fig. 16. 

 Murex sp.? Harris, La. Exp. Sta., Eept. on Hills of La., pt. 1, 1892, p. 29. 



According to Gabb the type of this species came from Wheelock, 

 Tex., and was deposited in the collections of the Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution. Unfortunately it has been lost. The State Survey's collec- 

 tion has yielded no specimens of this species, but in the U. S. National 

 Museum there is a specimen collected by T. Wayland Vaughau, from 

 Hammett's branch, 2 miles east of Mt. Lebanon, Bienville Parish, 

 La. This is herewith figured. 



Gabb's figure of this species is very poor, while his description is 

 good. His figure has been copied in Tryon's Structural and Syste- 

 matic Conchology, vol. 2, 1883, pi. 43, fig. 4, and this in turn is 

 copied iu De Gregorio's Monograph Faun. Eoc. Ala., pi. 6, fig. 47. 



Meyer's Odontopolys triplicata, Sonder-Abdruck aus "Bericht fiber 

 die Senkenbergische Gesellschaft in Frankfurt a. M.," 1887, p. 7, 

 pi. 1, fig. 6, is a Volute, perhaps the young of V. petrosus. 



Genus PSEUDOLIVA. 

 Pseudoliva ostrarupis nov. sp. PI. 8, fig. 3, a. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as figured ; volu- 

 tions 6, spiral whorls shouldered and somewhat costate ; suture ob- 

 scured by folise developed by the intermittent mode of growth of the 

 sutural callosity ; body whorl below scarcely distinguishable from 

 the non-umbilicate varieties of Ps. vetusta, while above, the shoulder 

 and the sutural folise at once definitely characterize the species. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Locality. — Smiley's Bluff, Brazos River, 2 miles above the mouth 

 of Pond Creek, Milam Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Midway Eocene. 

 Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Pseudoliva ostrarupis, var. pauper nov. var. PI. 8, fig. 4. 



Genus TENUISCALA. 

 Tenuiscala trapaquara nov. sp. PI. 8, fig. 7. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown by the 

 figure; whorls 12 or more; nuclear 4 smooth and polished; 5-11 

 traversed by fine sharp longitudinal costse and numerous spiral lines, 

 the latter consisting of five coarse lines occupying the medial and 

 basal portions of the whorl and as many microscopic lines on a sub- 

 eutural zone; body whorl generally but imperfectly preserved, sculp- 

 turing as in the whorls immediately above, the base, however, being 

 exposed, shows from 12 to 15 strong spiral lines. 



Localities. — Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River, Burleson Co. ; Smith- 

 ville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



T. trapaquara, var. engona nov. var. 



Slightly shorter, more angulated, and with a broad subsutural band 

 without strong revolving striae. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. , Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus PYRAMIDELLA. 



Pyramidella bastropensis nov. sp. PI 8, fig. 9. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown by the 

 figure; whorls 13 or 14, polished; suture channelled; one sharp strong 

 fold on the columella. 



This species resembles to some extent E. perexilis Con., but differs 

 from it by being broader at base and more rapidly tapering in the 

 lower four or five whorls. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. , Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Clailiorne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Genus SYRNOLA. 

 Syrnola trapaquara nov. sp. PI. 8, fig. 10. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 7; 1 small, sinistral; 2-7 polished, slightly tumid, 

 with a well-marked suture ; aperture moderate, striate within ; one 

 strong plait on the columella. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. ; Jones' farm, Hurricane 

 Bayou, Houston Co., and in Mr. Singley's collection from Mosley's 

 Ferry. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus PYRULA. 



P. (Fusoficula) texana nov. sp. PI. 8, fig. 11. 



Odontopolys texana Aldr. Labelled specimens from Aldrich, now in the 



U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 Volutilithes? recta Aldr., MS. plates, pi. 2, figs. 12, 12a. 



Specific characterization. — General form as indicated by the figure ; 

 whorls (in a mature specimen) at least 6 ; apex obtuse; whorls 1, 2 

 smooth; 3 spirally striate in part, and in part striate and costate; 

 4 and 5 with spiral raised lines alternating in size, and with longi- 

 tudinal folds or costse, the latter occasionally becoming varicose; 

 body whorl marked by four spiral lines on the humeral region, be- 

 low by three series of spiral lines, and by about twenty rather 

 irregular longitudinal costse ; outer margin of the labrum sharp, 

 within thickened and with rather irregular crenules; columella gen- 

 erally smooth; but sometimes with two irregular swellings just below 

 the point of greatest curvature. 



This is a very strange form. The apex is very obtuse and the 

 nuclear whorls as a whole are generally deflected somewhat from the 

 axis of the adult shell. So far the species is a true Pyrula. More- 

 over the striation is that of Pyrula, but the costation is more irregu- 

 lar than in any of the known species of that genus; in fact it varies 

 from moderately fine Pyrula- like lines to strong varices. The 

 swellings on the columella, though in no wise true plaits, are worthy 

 of note. They are evidently of the same origin and nature as those 

 in Mazzalina. 



Localities. — Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River, Burleson Co., Little 

 Brazos River, near iron bridge; Cedar Creek, Lee Co.; Dunn's 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Ranch, Robertson Co. This species is also found in various places 

 in Bienville Parish, La., and in Mississippi 2£ miles east of Newton. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CYPRJEA. 

 Cyprsea kennedyi nov. sp. PI. 8, fig. 12, a. 



Specific characterization.— General form and size as indicated by 

 the figures; oral or front surface strongly ribbed transversely, ribs 

 tending to divaricate; mouth moderately wide above, broad submedi- 

 ally and contracted below with one plait-like fold on either side; 

 back smooth except near the margins where there are strong radi- 

 ating lines. 



Locality. — Dr. Collard's farm, Town Branch, Sparks Headright, 

 Brazos Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus RIMELLA. 

 Rimella texana nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 1. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 11 ; 1 exceedingly small, smooth; 2, 3, 4, 5 smooth 

 and polished; 6, 7 faintly and finely cancellated; 8 with small longi- 

 tudinal plicae crossed by minute spiral strise; 9, 10 more strongly 

 plicate longitudinally, plicae most strongly developed midway of the 

 whorls ; body whorl plicate superiorly though not immediately below 

 the suture; spiral striie very fine over the plicse but coarse above 

 and very coarse below ; outer lip acute below, thick and reflected 

 above, medially forming a right angle ; inner lip well defined, 

 uniting with the outer above and forming a canal that passes up the 

 spire rather more than half-way to the apex, recurving descends the 

 width of a whorl or two; columella long and pointed, deflected back- 

 ward. 



Localities. — Colorado River, Devil's Eye, Bastrop Co.; Brazos 

 River, about one mile below the Milam-Burleson County line; Mos- 

 ley's Ferry (Singley's collection); Collier's Ferry, Burleson Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Rimella texana, var. plana nov. var. PI. 9, fig. 2. 



In this form, which is probably only a variety of the foregoing, 




1895.] NATUHAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



the posterior canal extends nearly or quite to the apex of the spire, 

 and recurving descends to near the body whorl. The only orna- 

 mentation is the spiral striation at the base of the body whorl, and 

 sometimes faint costa? near the apex. 



Localities. — Two miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co. ; near McBee 

 School-house, Cherokee Co.; Collier's Ferry, Brazos River; 2 miles 

 west of Alto, Cherokee Co. ; Sulphur Springs, Rusk Co. ; Robbing' 

 well, Houston Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon, — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CERITHIUM. 

 Cerithium webbi now sp. PI. 9, fig. 3. 



Specific characterization. — General form of young specimens as 

 shown in the figure; whorls about 9 ; spiral ones marked by two 

 submedial approximate spiral rows of crenules or nodes above which, 

 and just below the suture, is a third row with smaller crenulations ; 

 suture deep and broad; body whorl marked somewhat as those above 



though the lower submedial row of crenules is faint, and below it to 



- • 



the end of the beak occur spiral raised lines of varying strength; the 

 entire surface is apparently covered with minute revolving lines ; 

 lines of growth on the body whorl start at right angles to the suture 

 above, pass downward to the middle of the whorl, curve gradually 

 forward and, after reaching the base of the whorl, slowly again curve 

 backward and pass downward on the canal. 



Locality. — Rio Grande, 13 miles by river below Laredo, or 9 by 

 river above the Webb-Zapata County line, Texas side. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Cerithium penrosei nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 4. 



Specific characterization. — Whorls at least 15, gradually tapering, 

 ornamented as follows: by (1) about seven laterally compressed, 

 oblique subcentral or basal nodes, or costa± on each whorl, those on 

 the smaller whorls of the spire not so distinctly defined as represented 

 by the figure; by (2) spiral lines or stria?, about five of which are 

 strong and occupy the lower one-third of each whorl, three or four 

 more are finer and occupy a narrow, irregular central zone, while 

 four or five more occupy the upper or non-costate portion of the 

 whorls. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The costse on the several whorls are arranged in lines correspond- 

 ing in direction to the obliquity of the costse. 



Unfortunately only fragments of this large Cerithium have been 

 found; it doubtless measured eight or ten inches in length when en- 

 tire. 



Locality. — Smiley's Bluff, Brazos River, 2 miles above the mouth 

 of Fond Creek, Milam Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon.- — Midway Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus MESALIA. 

 Mesalia claibornensis Con. (MS). PI. 9, fig. 5. 



Specific characterizations. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls about 15; sides of the whorls nearly rectilinear; 

 sides of the spire taken as a whole slightly concave; surface of each 

 whorl ornamented by spiral lines of three sizes, of which there are 

 from five to seven of the first and second, and double that number 

 of the third magnitude, the latter are mere stria? ; lines of growth 

 faint oi» obscure; suture well defined but very narrow. 



This species is similar in some respects to Conrad's Mesalia vetusta, 

 but can at once be distinguished by the following differences: clai- 

 bornensis has two or three more whorls; the sides of the spires are 

 concave and not convex as in that of vetusta; the suture is less dis- 

 tinctly marked by a shoulder below it; there is a total lack of those 

 strong lines or folds of growth so characteristic of vetusta ; the lower 

 angulation of the body whorl is more sharply defined. 



Localities. — Colorado River, Devil's Eye, Bastrop Co.; Mosley's 

 Ferry, Brazos River; Wheelock, Robertson Co.; Little Brazos 

 River; Cedar Creek, Wheelock League, Walker's and Mont- 

 gomery's farm, Robertson Co.; College Sta., Brazos Co. (from a well 

 1,200 feet deep); Elm Creek, near Benchley's; Wm. Reid Head- 

 right, Brazos Co. ; Elm Creek, Lee Co.; Berryman's Place, Cherokee 

 Co. ; Alabama Bluff", Trinity River, Houston Co. ; 5 miles west of 

 Crockett, and Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co.; northwest corner of 

 Madison Co. ; 3 miles northeast of Crockett, on Rusk road; along Elm 

 Creek, from Orrell's to Price's crossing; Lewis' house, 2 miles east of 

 Alto, Cherokee Co.; Dr. Collard'sfarm, Town Branch, Sparks Head- 

 right, Brazos Co.; Dunn's Ranch, Gaffbrd Headright, Robertson 

 Co.; Walker's pasture, Wheelock Prairie, Robertson Co.; Bonita 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Creek, Pleasauton, Atascosa Co., Tex. Also 5 miles southeast of 

 Gibbsland, and 2 miles southeast of Mt. Lebanon, Bienville Parish, 

 La.; 4 miles west of Enterprise, Miss. ; base of bluff at Claiborne, Ala. 



Specimens from the last-mentioned locality are somewhat less broad 

 at base, more strongly striated spirally, and with slightly more 

 rounded volutions than the typical Texan form. In the collection 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia these Lower 

 Claiborne forms are labelled by Conrad "Mesalia claibornemis." 

 I am not aware that the species has ever before been figured or de- 

 scribed. It is one of the most abundant and characteristic of the 

 Texan Eocene. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type.— Texas State Museum. 



Genus TTJRRITELLA. 

 Turritella nasuta Gabb, var. houstonia nov. var. PI. 9, fig. 6. 



This variety differs from typical nasuta in being much broader at 

 base, and having its whorls rounded or slightly carinated submedi- 

 ally. It is generally somewhat larger than the typical form, and is 

 closely related to Conrad's Mesalia lintea. 



Localities. — Rio Grande, at Webb-Zapata County line ; Elm Creek, 

 near Beuchley; Alum Bluff Trinity River, Houston Co.; Dunn 

 Ranch, Robertson Co. Also in South Carolina, near Orangeburg 

 C. H. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Turritella dumblei nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 7. 



8]>ecific characterization. — Size and general form as shown by the 

 figure; whorls about 15; the lower two to four show an obtuse basal 

 carination while above, this feature is not so apparent ; surface 

 marked by raised spiral lines alternating in size, the carinal zones of 

 the lower whorls are marked by two somewhat stronger lines ; lines 

 of growth plainly cutting the spiral lines and causing them to appear 

 under a glass like diminutive strings of beads. 



This species reminds one somewhat of T. alabamiensis Whitf., but 

 is most probably nearest allied to T. infra granv 'lata Gabb (Geol. 

 Surv. Cal., Pal., vol. 1, 1864, p. 212, pi. 32, fig. 279), from near 

 Martinez, Cal. Wherever the lines of growth are strong over the 

 basal carina they tend to produce an "infra-granulata" appearance. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Localities. — Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River, Burleson Co. ; Cedar 

 Creek, Wheelock League; well at College Sta., Brazos Co.; Camp- 

 bell Creek, Robertson Co. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Turritella dutexata nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 8. 



Specific characterization. — Whorls (in a complete specimen) about 

 15; all marked by two subcentral carinal lines together with one 

 small one just below and one just above the suture. 



Besides the ornamentation shown on the specimen figured, there 

 are usually about four spiral stria? on each whorl between the upper 

 carinal and subsutural line ; between the two strong carinal lines 

 there is often a faint stria; likewise one often appears just below the 

 lower carina, When fully striated this species bears a general re- 

 semblance to T. arenicola and T. arenicola var. branneri, but may 

 be distinguished at once by the persistency of the bicarinate feature 

 of the whorls to the very apex. The apical whorls of T. arenicola 

 and variety are unicarinate somewhat as in T. carinata H. C. Lea 

 (T. apita De Greg.). It will be observed that in Meyer's carefully 

 drawn figure of T. carinata H. C. Lea, in the Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1887, p. 54, pi. 3, fig. 1, la, two carinse are represented on 

 each whorl, but it is the upper one which predominates on the apical 

 whorls; in dutexata it is the lower. 



Localities. — Elm Creek, Lee Co. ; Taylor's well, 5 miles south- 

 east of Franklin, Robertson Co. (specimens in the U. S. Nat. Mus.)j 

 7 miles southeast of Jewett, Leon Co., (specimens in Aldrich's coll.); 

 also in a small varietal form at Orrell's Crossing, Elm Creek, Lee 

 Co.; near Baptizing Creek, Cherokee Co., Tex. Also in Louisiana 

 at southwest \, southeast } Sect, 19, R. 7 W. Tp. 19; Holstein's 

 well, 5 miles south of Gibbshmd, Bienville Parish; mouth of Saline 

 Bayou, Red River; Sect, 29, Tp. 17, R. 5 W. In Mississippi 2£ 

 miles east of Newton ; Wautubbee hill, near Enterprise. In Ala- 

 bama at Claiborne. 



Geological horizon.— Lower and Upper Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Singley's collection. 



Turritella nerinexa nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 9. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form of a fragment 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



(the only known specimen) as indicated by the figure; number of 

 whorls unknown, ornamented by (1) fine even spiral strije, (2) a 

 8ubsutural row of pustules or crenules, and (3) a slightly raised or 

 faint ridge at the base of each whorl becoming obsolete in the lower 

 whorls, but increasing in strength above so as to nearly equal in size 

 the subsutural line of crenules. 



Locality. — Black Bluff, Brazos River, extreme northern limit of 

 Milam Co., Milam Bluff of Penrose's Report. 



Geological horizon. — Midway Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus SOLARIUM. 

 Solarium huppertzi nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 10, a. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form of young speci- 

 mens (no adults have thus far been found) as shown by the figure; 

 whorls 3; mouth roughly hexagonal, bounded by the following lines: 

 (1) the upper margin of the whorl, extending from a bicrenulate 

 suture to a peripheral row of crenulations; (2) the exterior lateral 

 margin of the whorl-, extending from the row of crenulations just men- 

 tioned to a second or medial row; (3) the exterior sublateral margin 

 of the whorl, extending from the medial row of crenulations to the 

 basal row; (4) the basal margin of the whorl, extending from the 

 basal row of crenulations to an interior sublateral row; (5) the um- 

 bilical margin; (6) the margin of contact with the penultimate 

 whorl. 



This shell is flat or discoid like the younar of most members of this 

 genus. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Solarium bastropensis nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 11. a. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; whorls -M ; spire very low, marked only by the suture 

 and a fine line just above it; body whorl depressed, somewhat cari- 

 nate, marked on the periphery by three raised lines, and near the 

 umbilicus by radiating lines of growth. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. , Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Genus AMAUROPSIS. 

 Amauropsis singleyi nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 12. 



Specific characterization. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figure; spire pointed and high; whorls 7; body and penultimate 

 whorls shouldered above as in N. recurva; umbilicus small, partially 

 hidden by the labium ; margin of the aperture sharp, reflected. 



This species might be mistaken for the young of recurva were it 

 not for the fact that the two have differently formed umbilici. In 

 recurva there is a ridge formed by the continuation of the lower 

 margin of the aperture that, after passing below and to the left of 

 the umbilicus, winds up into the same as described by Aldrich. In 

 singleyi the lower margin of the aperture stands out sharply. If 

 traced upward and inward it will be found to follow the labium 

 about one-third way across the umbilicus and then to wind up into 

 the same. 



Locality. — Cedar Creek , Lee Co. , Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Collection of J. A. Singley. 



Genus DILLWYNELLA. 

 Dillwynella'? texana nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 13. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 4; spiral, smooth, and shining; body whorl nearly 

 smooth but showing a slight tendency to bear furrows or lines radiat- 

 ing from the suture; umbilicus small; mouth round. 



The umbilical portion of this shell appears to be more or less 

 whitened or enameled. 



Locality. — Jones' farm, Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co. ; from 

 Lee County and Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River, (Aldrich's collec- 

 tion ) . 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. Unfortunately broken since figur- 

 ing. 



Genus GAZA. 



Gaza ? aldrichiana nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 14. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 4; 1 minute, non- protruding; 2, 3 rather small 

 and tumid, marked by a few radiating lines which extend from the 

 suture downward about two-thirds across the whorls, reminding one 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



somewhat of the upper surface of Solarium bellastriatum ; body 

 whorl rather large, rounded, slightly flattened above, with indistinct 

 radial lines or lines of growth, flattened slightly below, rugose near 

 the umbilicus; umbilicus small, Solarium-like, rendered somewhat 

 hexagonal by the protruding peripheral dentes; mouth round; shell 

 rather thick; general appearance like Dillwynella naticoides. 



Locality. — Elm Creek, Lee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Aldrich's collection. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



Plate 1. 



Modiola houstonia nov. sp. 



Modiola texana Gabb. 



Leda bastropensis nov. sp. 



Leda milameusis nov. sp. 



Leda houstonia nov. sp. 



Adrana aldrichiana nov. sp. 



Venericardia trapaquara nov. sp. 

 Fig. 8a Astarte smithvillensis nov. sp. (Typical). 

 Fig. 9a, b, c. The same, small variety. 

 Fig. 10. Crassatella antestriata Gabb. 

 Fig. 10a The same, viewed from within. 



Plate 2. 



Fig. 1. Crassatella texana Heilp. 



Fig. 2. Crassatella texalta nov. sp. 



Fig. 3. Crassatella trapaquara nov. sp. 



Fig. 3a The same, viewed from within. 



Fig. 4. Sphairella anteproducta nov. sp. 



Fig. 5. Meretrix texacola nov. sp. 



Fig. 5a The same, viewed anteriorly. 



Fig. 5b Smaller variety of the same species. 



Plate 3. 



Fig. 1. Tel/ina tallicheti nov. sp. 

 Fig. 2. Siliqua simondsi nov. sp. 

 Fig. 3. Ceronia singleyi nov. sp. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Fig. 3a Smaller individual of the same species. 



Fig. 4. Periploma collardi nov. sp. 



Fig. 5. Corbula aldrichi, var. smithvillensis nov. var. 



Fig. 5a The same, lesser value. 



Fig. 6. Martesia texana nov. sp. 



Fig. 7. Ringicula trapaquara uov. sp. 



Fig. 8. Volvula t smithvillensis nov. sp. 



Fig. 9. Cyliehnella atysopsis nov. sp. 



Fig. 9a The specimen labelled " Volvula minutissima" in the 



collection of the Academy. 

 Fig. 10. Terebra texagyra nov. sp. 

 Fig. 11. Terebra houstonia nov. sp. 



Plate 4. 



Fig. 1. Terebra houstonia var. 



Fig. 2. Conns smithvillensis nov. sp. 



Fig. 3. Pleurotoma enstricrina uov. sp. 



Fig. 4. PL (Pleurotomella) anacona nov. sp. 



Fig. 5. PL (Surcula) gabbi Conrad. 



Fig. 6. PI. (Surcula) moorei Gabb. 



Fig. 6a A somewhat larger, more carinated specimen. 



Fig. 6b A strongly denticulate specimen. 



Fig. 7. Pleurotoma beadata nov. sp. 



Fig. 8. Pleurotoma vaughani nov. sp. 



Fig. 9. Pleurotoma huppertzi nov. sp. 



Fig. 10. PL huppertzi, var. penrosei nov. var. 



Plate 5. 



Fig. 1. Pleurotoma leoncola nov. sp. 

 Fig. 2. PL ( Drill 'id) dumblei nov. sp. 



PL (Drillia) dipta nov. sp. 



PL {Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb. 



PL (Drillia) prosseri nov. sp. 



PL (Drillia) hellogi Gabb. 



PL (Drillia) texaeona nom. mut. 



PL (Drillia) texanopsis nov. sp. 

 Fig. 9. Pleurotoma insignifica Heilp. 

 Fig. 10. 27. ( Mangilia) infans Mr. 




1895.] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



Fig. 11. PL (Borsonia) plenta nov. sp. by Aid. & Har. 



Fig. 11a Apex of a very young and perfect specimen. 



Fig. 12. PL (Eucheilodan ) ret 'iru/atoides nov. sp. 



Fig. 13. PL ( Tanni is) jiiicru nov. sp. 



Fig. 14. PL (Clathurella?) fannce nov. sp. 



Fig. 15. PL { Bela) rebeccce nov. sp. 



Plate 6. 



( 'ancellaria panones nov. sp. 



Can. panones, var. smithvillensis nov. var. 



Can. panones, var. junipera nov. var. 



Cancellaria penrosei nov. sp. 



Cancellaria bustropensis nov. sp. 



Cancellaria ulmula nov. sp. 



Volvaria gabbiana Aid. MS. 



Volutilithes dalli uov. sp. 

 8a A smoother variety. 

 9. Caricella demism, var. texana Gabb. 



Caricella subangulata, var. cherokeensis nov. var. 

 Fig. 11. Turricula texana nov. sp. 

 Fig. 12. Levifusus trabeatoides nov. sp. 

 Fig. 12a Apex of the same magnified. 

 Fig. 13. Latirus singleyi nov. sp. 

 Fig. 13a Small variety of the same. 



Plate 7. 



Strepsidura ficus Gabb. 



Fusus bastropensis nov. sp. 



Fusus ostranipis nov. sp. 



Fusus mortoni, var. mortoniopsis Gabb. 



Fusus motion i, var. rarer us nov. var. 

 6. Clavilithes regexus nov. sp. 



Clavilithes humerosus, var. texanus nov. var. 

 8. Clavilithes kennedyanus nov. sp. 

 Fig. 9. Chrysodomus parbrazana nov. sp. 




88 proceedings of the academy of [1895. 



Plate 8. 



Fig. 1. Clavilithes (Papillina) dumostis, var. trapaquarus nov. var. 



Fig. 2. Astyris bastropensis nov. sp. 



Fig. 3. Pseudoliva ostrarupis nov. sp. 



Fig. 3a The same, front view. 



Fig. 4. Ps. ostrarupis, var. pauper nov. var. 



Fig. 5. Murex fusates nov. sp. 



Fig. 6. M. ( Odontopolys) compsorhytis Gabb. 



Fig. 7. Tenuiscala trapaquara nov. sp. 



Fig. 8. T. trapaquara, var. engona nov. var. 



Fig. 9. Pyramidella bastropensis nov. sp. 



Fig. 10. Syrnola trapaquara nov. sp. 



Fig. 11. Pyrula (Fusoficula) texana nov. sp. 



Fig. 12. Cyproza kennedyi nov. sp. 



Plate 9. 



Fig. 1. Rimella texana nov. sp. 



Fig. 2. R. texana, var. plana nov. var. 



Fig. 3. Cerithium webbi nov. sp. 



Fig. 4. Cerithium penrosei nov. sp. 



Fig. 5. Mesalia elaibomensis Con. 



Fig. 6. Turritella nasuta, var. houstonia nov. var. 



Fig. 6a T. nasuta, typical. 



Fig. 7. Turritella dumblei nov. sp. 



Fig. 8. Turritella dutexata nov. sp. 



Fig. 9. Turritella nerinexa nov. sp. 



Fig. 10. Solarium huppertzi nov. sp. 



Fig. 10a The same, from beneath. 



Fig. 11. Solarium bastropensis nov. sp. 



Fig. 11a The same, from above. 



Fig. 12. Amauropsis singleyi nov. sp. 



Fig. 13. Dillwynellaf texana nov. sp. 



Fig. 14. Gaza? aldrichiana nov. sp. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



THE EOCENE TERTIARY OF TEXAS EAST OF THE BRAZOS RIVER. 

 BY WILLIAM KENNEDY. 



Since the publication of Dr. EGlgard's report on the Geology of 

 Mississippi probably no other publication occupies so prominent a 

 place among the geological literature of the tertiary deposits of the 

 Gulf coastal slope as the "Tertiary and Cretaceous Strata of the 

 Tuscaloosa, Tombigbee, and Alabama Rivers," by Smith and John- 

 son. 1 The Tertiary section there shown has been recognized not 

 only as the section of the Alabama beds, but has also been con- 

 sidered as typical of the whole tertiary areas along the Gulf coast. 

 Dall says that the Gulf section has been practically determined 

 and its fauna largely recorded in this section, but he considers that 

 important information and a rich fauna 'may be obtained from 

 the Texas section, 2 and lately, Harris, in speaking of the same Bul- 

 letin, says: "It was not until 1886 that the typical section of Ameri- 

 can marine Eocene, namely, that of Alabama was published. 3 " 



At that time (1888) very little was known regarding the Texas 

 Tertiary. Desultory work, it is true, had been done by several 

 observers, and some fossils figured and described by Gabb and others, 

 but no continuous or connected work had been attempted, or, if so, 

 the results were inaccessible and unknown. It was generally con- 

 ceded, however, that it might be safely assumed from the geological 

 conformation of the neighboring States that all or nearly all of the 

 divisions ranging from the Eo-Lignitic to the Grand Gulf, inclusive, 

 were represented, and that a considerable part belonged to the 

 Lower Eocene as seen at Claiborne, Alabama, and in Clark County, 

 west of Claiborne. 4 



In 1889 the first systematic work in those deposits was begun by 

 Prof. R. A. F. Penrose, Jr. During that year he followed three of the 



1 Bulletin 43 U. S. G. S., by Dr. E. A. Smith and Lawrence C. Johnson. 



2 Tenth Annual Report U. S. G. S., 1888-89, p. 168. 



3 Am. Journ. of Sci., Vol. XL VII, April, 1894, p. 302. 



* Heilprin, Cont. to Tert, Geol. of U. S.. 1884, pp. 37, 38. 



7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



great rivers : Brazos, Colorado, and Rio Grande, flowing across the 

 Tertiary areas of the State, and the results of his examination have 

 been published in the First Annual Report of the present Geologi- 

 cal Survey. 5 Since that time the work of examining these beds has 

 been carried on continuously throughout the eastern portion of the 

 State almost altogether by myself, and the detailed results of these 

 examinations, chiefly from a stratigraphic standpoint, have been 

 published from time to time in the various Annual Reports of the 

 Survey. 6 



During the course of these examinations Prof. Penrose's river sec- 

 tion along the Brazos was re-examined, the section seen along the 

 Trinity River, and another extended section between the Trinity and 

 Sabine made, and extensive areas throughout other portions of East 

 Texas, were examined in detail. 7 



While a great portion of the stratigraphy had thus been worked 

 out it has only been within the last year that any of the immense 

 collections of fossils obtained during the course of the work have 

 been critically examined and described. 8 



While the prediction of Dall as to the richness of the fauna of the 

 Texas section has been fully verified, various other conditions have 

 come to light which, while they largely verify the Alabama section, 

 at the same time add strength to the all- important fact that 

 the geological conformation of neighboring States cannot always be 

 relied upon as a guide to the geology of any portion of the southern 

 or Gulf Tertiary. 



A comparison of the two sections — Alabama and Texas — shows 

 several material differences between which, prior to the work of 

 the present Geological Survey, were never suspected to exist. The 

 three sections of the Eocene, viz. : Alabama, Mr. Harris' section, 

 and the Texas section as made by the State Survey, are here 

 given for comparison. 



3 Preliminary Report on the Geol. of the Gulf Tertiary of Texas, by R. A. F. 

 Penrose, Jr., First Annual Eeport Geol. Survey of Texas, pp. 6-64. 



6 Second, Third and Fourth Annual Reports Geol. Survey of Texas. 



7 Third Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, pp. 43-124 ; Fourth Annual Ee- 

 port (ieol. Survey of Texas, pp. 43-53 and 67-76. 



8 For this work see Monograph of Texas Tertiary Fossils, by Gilbert D. Harris. 




a 

 o> 



o 





Lower — Lignitic 



1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Alabama section : 9 — 



Feet. 

 'Upper — ( Coral Limestone, Vicksburg ? . .150 



White Limestone Vicksburg (Orbitoidal) 140 



(_ Jackson 60 



Middle I ^fT 06 U °if 



£> <[ ( Buhrstone , . . 300 



' Hatcbetigbee 175 



Woods Bluff 80-85 



Bells Landing 140 



{ Nanafalia 200 



Mathews Landing, Naheola. . 130-150 



Black Blutf 1 . 100 



Midway 25 



In the American Journal of Science Mr. Harris presents a gen- 

 eral section of the Eocene series of the Southern States. This is 

 based to a considerable extent on the Alabama section, but modified 

 to include and harmonize with his own observations. 10 This section 

 is: — 



Stages. . Sub -stages. 



t Coral Limestone 

 Vicksburg -j Vicksburg Beds 

 ( Red Blurt* Beds 



T , ( Moody's Branch Beds 



jacKson | Mark>8 MUls Red Bedg 



Claiborne j ™> Eluff ^ arls ( Mk ) 

 ( Claiborne sand 



Lower { Ostrea sellseformis Beds 



3 { Claiborne ] if ^ Beds 

 ^ Buhrstone 



Hatchetigbee Beds 



Wood's Bluff Beds 



CO 



'u 

 02 



Lignitic 



C Bell's Landing Beds 

 Bell's Landing ) Gregg's Landing Beds 

 (_ Nanafalia Beds 



C Mathew's Landing Mai*l 

 Midway 1 Black Bluff Clays 



(Midway Clay atid Limestone 



The work of the Texas survey shows the Eocene Tertiary of that 

 portion of the State lying east of the Brazos River to have a sec- 

 tion of: — 



9 Bulletin 43, U. S. G. S., by E. A. Smith and L. C. Johnson, p. 18. 

 10 Harris. Am. J. of Sc, Vol. XL VII, April, 1894, p. 304. 




92 • PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Stages. Sub-stages. Thickness. 



Feet. 



Frio Clays 160 



Fayette Sands 400 



Yegua Clays 1,000 



Marine Beds 650 



[ Queen City Beds 60-70 



( Lignitic Beds 1,000 



AT . i ( Basal or Wills Point 

 Midway < ™ „„.. 



J { Clays . 260 



v 

 o 



W 



■r. 



w 



Lower Claiborne 

 Lignitic 



The above section includes the whole of the Eocene deposits 

 recognized in east Texas. As noted by Dr. Loughridge 11 the white 

 limestones of the Claiborne are absent and neither the Vicksburg 

 nor Jackson stages have been recognized, either paleontologically or 

 stratigraphically, although both of these are reported as occurring 

 a few miles to the eastward in Louisiana. The celebrated Claiborne 

 sands are also absent. 



No strata that might lithologically be referred to the Ostrea sel- 

 Iceformis beds have been recognized. O. selheformis var. divari- 

 cata Lea, occurs in considerable numbers throughout the upper 

 division of the Marine beds, and although increasing, in number as 

 this fossil ascends the scale, it can nowhere be said to be more chaiv 

 acteristic of any of the beds than many of the other species found 

 in association with it. This form of Ostrea has a vertical range of 

 a little over two hundred feet. 



It may also be said that no deposits corresponding to the Buhr- 

 stone of the Alabama section have been recognized anywhere 

 throughout East Texas. The only deposits that might possibly be 

 referred to this stage are the Queen City beds of red and white 

 sands and clays, and even these, although filling the position occu- 

 pied by the Buhrstone, do not correspond to any member of that stage 

 lithologically, and besides, they are altogether unfossiliferous. 



The lignitic formation, as recognized in the Texas sections, contains 

 no such divisions as those characterizing the Alabama lignitic. 

 From its base to contact with the overlying marine beds the Texas 

 lignitic is made up entirely of sands, clays and lignites, and with 

 the exception of a few broken plant remains the extended investiga- 

 tions of the Geological Survey have disclosed neither fossils nor green 

 sands. It may be said to be altogether unfossiliferous. 



11 Cotton Production of Southern States, Tenth Census, Vol. V, Part II. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Into the general section, however, three divisons of the Lisbon 

 stage have to be introduced, all of which, so far as at present known, 

 are peculiar to Texas. There are (a) Frio Clays, (b) Fayette 

 Sands, and (c) Yegua Clays. These overlie the marine beds in the 

 reverse of the order here given and together aggregate a thickness of 

 nearly 1,500 feet in East Texas, while farther west this may be con- 

 siderably exceeded. 



Frio Clays. 



These clays form the uppermost division of the Eocene Tertiary 

 as shown in the Texas section. They comprise a series of dark-blue, 

 red, green, brown, and yellow clays when wet. They weather to pale 

 blue, light red, watery green, gray, and pale yellow upon exposure 

 and drying. In many places they carry numerous calcareous nodules, 

 hard when freshly exposed, but in contact with the air they soon become 

 soft and powdery, coating the exposures of the banks and outcrops 

 with a fine, limy powder, and the clays themselves may be regarded 

 as more or less gypseous throughout. In structure these deposits are 

 sometimes laminated or partially stratified, but throughout their greater 

 extent are massive and heavy bedded. The East Texas deposits ap- 

 pear to be unfossiliferous, but a considerable extinct fauna is reported 

 from the beds lying in the central and western portions of the State. 



Although reported as forming extensive deposits and covering a 

 wide area throughout the region w T est of the Brazos 12 these clays thin 

 out and are so covered by the overlapping Neocene deposits to the 

 east of that river that their existence has only been noted at a few 

 places. East of the Brazos these clays were first observed a short 

 distance east of the town of Corrigan, in Polk County, where the 

 section shows them to be dark- blue gypseous clays 13 and to lie between 

 two beds of sandstone. Thirteen miles farther east, near Fleming, 14 

 an extensive outcrop of the same clays appears. Here, however, they 

 present their calcareous features and appear to be devoid of selenite 

 and are about 160 feet in thickness. Small outcrops appear at in- 

 tervals along the Trinity and Sabine Railway and at Summit, in 

 Tyler County, a section of a cutting on the Southern Pacific Railway 

 shows the Frio clays to be about eighty feet in thickness and to be 



12 Third Annual Keport Geol. Survey of Texas, p. 116. 



13 Third Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, pp. 62-63, and 117-118. 



14 Durable, Journal of Geology, Sept., 1894, p. 554. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



overlaid directly by the brown and gray sands of the latest Tertiary. 

 The following section combined from two cuttings at Summit Station 

 shows the relations of the Frio clays to the overlying and underly- 

 ing deposits. 15 



,,5 1. Gray sand with silicious pebbles . 18 feet. 



-g 2. Conglomerate of silicious pebbles connected by a 

 «g ferruginous matrix adhering to brown ferrugi- 

 i_3 nous sandstone, found in boulder form and in 

 o connection with an irregularly deposited stratum 

 of ferruginous material changing gradually to- 

 m ward the north end of the cutting to a brown 

 §c or pale red crossbedded sand interlaminated in 

 places with lenticular shaped deposits of brown- 

 ish-blue or pink clay 10 to 13 feet. 



3. Mottled-blue and brown sand clay 20 " 



m 4. Pale watery-green sandy clay 20 " 



£ 5. Brown sandy clay 25 " 



6. Pale blue sand and clay 15 " 



£ 7. Dark blue clay with limy concretions and gypsum 



crystals in places 20 " 



od 8. Drab sandy clay becoming gradually the same as 



5 | No. 8 _ 30 « 



£ 9. Gray sandstones, coarse grained on top but chang- 

 es' ing to a fine grained blue stone at base ... 120 " 



Nos. 3 to 7 belong to the Frio clays. 



Many deposits of these clays occur in Jasper and Newton Counties 

 and extend almost to the Louisiana line. 



West of Corrigan, deposits of the same character, occupying a 

 similar position and of the same age, occur in the neighborhood of 

 Lougstreet, Montgomery County, and lately in an examination of 

 the section at Riverside quarries, on the Trinity, Mr. Dumble found 

 the same clays between two sets of sandstone and occupying the 

 same position as the deposit at Corrigan. 



While these deposits are only visible at intervals, often many 

 miles apart, their generally uniform appearance, constitution and 

 relatively coinciding positions between the overlying sands and cal- 



15 Third Annual Eeport Geol. Survey of Texas, p. 120. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



careous clayey Bands of the Neocene beds and the underlying 

 Fayette sands appear to justify the inference that they form a con- 

 tinuous belt of deposits, somewhat irregular in width and thickness, 

 from west to east and have a general tendency to decrease in areal 

 extent and thickness as we go east. 



Fayette Sands. 



The gray sandstones as described by Buckley and Loughridge 

 admit of a threefold division and possibly a fourth may be added 

 upon farther examination and investigation, each being represented 

 by beds differing widely from each other, both in lithological struc- 

 ture and fauual character. The uppermost division comprises a series 

 of highly calcareous sands, sandstones and clays containing many 

 water-worn cretaceous shells throughout the sandy portions, but carry- 

 ing no indigenous invertebrate fauna. 16 Fossil bones have occasion- 

 ally been reported from these beds and some have been described by 

 Leidy 17 from Washington County and farther west. This division, 

 however, belongs to the Neocene Tertiary. The middle portion, or 

 Frio clays, have already been described, and the Fayette sands proper 

 form the basal portion and probably include the hard silicious sand- 

 stones mentioned by Buckley. 



The prevailing characteristics of these Fayette sands, as here 

 restricted, are gray sandstones, white and gray clays, and gray sands. 

 The sandstones are irregularly deposited and lie in beds from a few 

 inches to ten, fifteen or twenty feet in thickness. In Jasper 

 County, on the eastern side of the State, these sandstones range 

 from four to ten feet in thickness and at Rockland, in Tyler County, 

 the section shows : 18 



1. Gray sand 4 feet. 



2. Coarse grained, gray sandstone 5 " 



3. Hard blue sandstone 15 " 



Along McManus' Creek, near Stryker, in. Polk County, these 

 sandstones form an escarpment for nearly a mile in length and pre- 

 sent a solid face of over ten feet, and at Hitchcock's quarry; about a 



16 Fourth Annual Report (leol. Survey of Texas, 1893, pp. 9-14 as Navasota 

 Beds. 



17 U. S. G. Survey of the Territories, Vol. I. Extinct Vertebra ta, by J. Leidy, 

 p. 246 et seq. 



18 Third Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1891, p. 120. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



mile north of Corrigan, the sandstones exposed show a thickness of 

 over sixteen feet. Coming westward the thickness becomes less, as 

 near Lovelady, in Houston County, the bedding is from ten inches to 

 two feet. In Grime County the thickness has still farther 

 diminished to from six to eighteen inches. Crossing the Navasota 

 River the bedding begins to thicken to the westward, as a section 

 near Wellborn Station shows them to have a thickness of two to six 

 feet. 



In texture these sandstones vary from a soft, indurated sand of 

 scarcely sufficient cohesion to be classed as sandstone to a hard, close 

 grained, glassy quartzite. The different conditions of texture are, 

 however, so intermixed that it would be difficult to specify any dis- 

 tinct area as being prevailingly one or the other. In Jasper County 

 the quartzite conditions appear to prevail in some sections, while at 

 Rockland the rock is coarse grained and hard, but shows no glassy 

 conditions. Again on the Biggam White Headlight in the northern 

 portion of Grime County the rocks change from a soft gray color, 

 to a hard gray and brownish-gray sandstone with occasional blocks 

 showiug the characteristic texture of quartzite. 19 



The white and gray clays and gray sands associated with these 

 sandstones occur interbedded and interstratified with the sandstone 

 beds and vary in thickness from a few inches to several feet, some of 

 the sand-beds reaching a thickness of twenty- five feet, while the clays 

 rarely exceed six feet. Many of the sands show cross-beddiug, some 

 of the beds having a wavy or broken stratification showing the 

 peculiar structure sometimes found along sandy coasts subject to wind 

 and tide action and it is in these sands the beautifully opalized wood 

 so characteristic of the Fayette beds is found in great abundance. 



While the sands and clays have, with the exception of the opalized 

 wood, yielded no fossils, the hard sandstones have given us a fauna 

 scanty, it is true, but sufficient to connect the Fayette beds with 

 the Eocene Tertiary. 



In both Polk and Grime Counties plant remains have been found 

 in the form of well preserved leaves. These, however, have not 

 been described. Somewhat lower in the scale, in Polk and Brazos 

 Counties, the remains of animal life occur. Four miles north of 



19 Fourth Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1892, p. 29. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



Corrigan the section of a cutting on the Houston, East and West 

 Texas Railway shows: 20 



1. Gray sand 3 feet. 



2. Light gray sandstone containing casts of Corbula 



atabamensis Lea, Dentalium, minutistriatum 

 Gabb, var. dumbli, new var. , Venericardia 

 planicosta Lam., Cytherea tornadonis Harris, 

 and Calyptrophorus velatus Con. 21 . . . . lj to 2 " 



3. Durated gray sand or soft sandstone 4 " 



The Brazos County section containing fossils occurs at Dr. 

 Williams' quarry about three miles east of Wellborn Station, on the 

 Houston and Texas Central Railway. This section shows: 22 



1 . Gray sands 2 to 8 feet. 



2. Thinly laminated, light gray sandy clays ... 2 to 8 " 



3. Broken sandstone with fossil casts 2 " 



4. Regular and even bedded sandstone 6 " 



^»* 



Nos. 3 and 4 of this section contain Bulimella kellogii; Pleuro- 

 toma sp. ; Caneellaria penrosii n. sp., Harris; Yoldia claibomensis 

 Conrad; Mactra sp. ; Corbula alabamensis Lea; Siliqiia simondsi n. 

 sp., Harris; Venericardia planicosta Lam.; Cytherea bastropensis 

 Harris, and Turritella sp. 23 



West of the Brazos River invertebrate fossils have been found in 

 these beds, and from this it may be inferred that the same conditions 

 hold good across the State. 



The area occupied by the Fayette beds forms a narrow belt with 

 extremely irregular and as yet badly defined boundaries extending 

 from the bottom lands along the west side of the Sabine, westward 

 to and beyond the Brazos, and while the greatest width of this belt 

 may exceed fifteen miles, yet throughout its greater extent the 

 average width is not over six to eight milee. Their southern mar- 

 gins dip beneath the overlying Frio clays and their northern 

 borders rest upon the gypseous lignite- bearing clays and sands of the 

 Yegua stage. The country underlaid by these sandstones and sands, 

 particularly throughout the eastern portion of the territory in Jasper, 



20 Third Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1891, p. 115. 

 n Fourth Annual Eeport Geol. Survey of Texas, 1892, p. 46. 

 53 Harris M.S., Monograph of Texas Tertiary Fossils. 

 23 Harris M.S., Monograph of Texas Tertiary fossils. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Tyler and Polk Counties, is broken and hilly and generally rough, 

 many of the hills rising in the form of steep side knobs to elevations 

 more than 150 feet above the level of the river bottoms. The Neches 

 River flows along the northern border of these sandstones for nearly 

 twenty miles before breaking through them near Rockland, and 

 along the whole of this distance the Fayette sands rise almost pre- 

 cipitously from near the river bank to altitudes varying from 120 to 

 275 feet above the river. 



The dip of these beds is gentle, as a whole, but in many places 

 faulting and sliding has obscured the true dip to such an extent that 

 it is difficult to tell its exact rate. Extensive erosion also appears 

 to have taken place throughout the whole. area and long narrow pro- 

 jections of the overlying Neocene beds appear in many of the 

 valleys. Along the eastern side of Billum's Creek, about two miles 

 west of Colmesnil, a ridge of brown sand and quartz gravel and 

 coarse pebbles, fifteen feet thick extends in a northeastern direction, 

 for several miles. 



The Fayette sands of Eastern Texas tie up both stratigraphically 

 and lithulogically in the northern portion of Washington County, on 

 the western side of the Brazos with those recently described as 

 occurring from that point westward across the State by Mr. Dumble, 24 

 and may be considered but an eastern extension of the same. 



There can scarcely be any doubt but that these beds, with the Frio 

 clays and overlying Neocene ("Navasota Beds" of the Fourth Annual 

 Report and Dumble's ' 'Oakville Beds" 25 ) formed what was under- 

 stood by Hilgard, Hopkins, Loughridge and others to be the western, 

 or Texas, extension of the Grand Gulf beds and considered of 

 Miocene age. Whether the Neocene division as seen in the Navasota 

 beds of'theeastor the Oakville beds of the west maybe correlated with 

 the Grand Gulf beds or not, future investigation must decide, but 

 manifestly with the evidence at present before us no such correlation 

 can be made as far as the Frio clays and Fayette sands are concerned. 

 There can be no doubt as to their Eocene age, and moreover, a great 

 hiatus occurs between the lowest Neocene beds and the highest Eocene 

 deposits represented in the section as the whole of the Vicksburg and 



-' Fourth Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1892, pp. 9-15. 

 20 Journal of Geology for Sept., 1894, pp. 557-558. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



Jackson, and a considerable portion of the Claiborne stages are ab- 

 sent throughout the whole of this part of Texas. 



Yegua Clays. 



Immediately underlying the Fayette sands comes an extensive series 

 of clays and lignites known to the Texas geologists as the Yegua 

 clays. In the First Annual Report of the Survey these clays were 

 considered as forming a portion of the Fayette beds of Prof. Penrose 

 and were by him placed at the base of that division M and belonging 

 to the same Grand Gulf series as the overlying gray sandstones of the 

 Fayette sands as now known. The discovery of Eocene fossils in 

 the overlying sandstones as well as in the clays themselves naturally 

 relegated the whole to an olderstageof deposition than that to which the 

 Grand Gulf was supposed to belong. The wide lithological variation be- 

 tween the sandstones and thinly stratified and laminated lignitic sands 

 and clays led to the separation of the two into independent stages 

 more in keeping with their structure and evidently widely separated 

 manner of formation and deposition and the designation "Yegua 

 Clays ' ' has been applied to them from their development on the river 

 of that name. 



These beds comprise a series of dark blue, brown and gray clays 

 and blue-brown and gray sands and sandy clays. Extensive de- 

 posits of lignites are also found throughout the areas occupied by 

 them. The clays are laminated, thinly stratified and massive and 

 characterized by the great quantities of gypsum either in the form 

 of selenite crystals or as irregular masses in a crystalline form dis- 

 tributed throughout the various beds. In the eastern portion of the 

 area the laminated gypseous clays are more prevalent than farther 

 west. In Angelina County these beds are thinly stratified blue clays 

 containing small clusters of minute crystals of gypsum and occasional 

 streaks or pieces of lignite which at their contact with the overlying 

 Fayette sands on the Neches River have a thickness of over thirty- 

 five feet. The section at Clark's Crossing shows: 27 



22. Gray sandstone stained brown forming base of 



Fayette sands 3 feet. 



23. Thinly stratified or laminated blue clay with gyp- 



sum in crystals, to river level 35 " 



26 First Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1889, pp. 47-51. 



27 Third Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1801, p. 62. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The same characteristics prevail in Houston County where the 

 base comprises a series of blue and brown laminated gypsum- bearing 

 beds showing a section of : 28 



1. Ferruginous gravel talus from Cook's Mountain. 4 feet. 



2. Thinly laminated brown clays 4 " 



3. Thinly laminated dark blue clays with inter- 



laminae of brown sand and crystals of selenite . 6 " 



4. Fossiliferous brown sand, containing an extensive 



fauna, including, among others, Anomia ephip- 

 pioides Gabb; Volutilithes petrosa Conrad; 

 Venericardia planicosta Lam.; Calyptrophorus 

 velatus Conrad, 29 and forming an intermediate 

 bed of the marine stage 10 to 15 " 



Towards the western side of the same county these clays give place 

 to massive brown sands and clays containing broken plant remains 

 and sheet-like formations of crystalline gypsum. Still farther west, 

 in Grime and Brazos Counties, gray sand forms the prevailing 

 characteristics. 



While towards the eastern end of the area it may be broadly stated 

 that the clays are gypseous throughout and, as in the northern edge 

 of Polk County, the overlying Fayette sauds rest upon heavy beds of 

 blue gypseous clays. The same conditions do not hold good along the 

 contact between these divisions in the western portion. In Houston 

 County, while the gypsum is pretty generally distributed throughout 

 the whole of the series, the heavier deposits of that material occur 

 towards the base ; and in Brazos County the gypsum- bearing beds 

 appear only at, or close to, the base of the division and is there over- 

 laid by a series of dark blue clays containing broken plant remains, 

 gray sands and sandy clays and the Fayette sands rest upon laminated 

 or thinly stratified banded dark brown and yellow clays showing 

 everywhere a heavy sulphur efflorescence. 



The sauds belonging to this series of deposits are blue, brown and 

 gray in color and lie in beds from a few inches to over fifty feet in 

 thickness. The gray sands form the prevailing type and occur over 

 the whole area, but are better developed in Houston, Grime and 



28 [bid., i>. 17. 



29 Harris, M.S., Monograph of Texas Tertiary Fossils. . 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



Brazos Counties than farther east. These are sometimes laminated 

 and crossbedded but the greater portion is structureless. They are 

 often saline, heavy incrustations of salt occupying the beds of 

 dry pools and are of frequent occurrence during the summer months. 

 In places they contain quantities of silicified wood of a dull, lustre- 

 less appearance, showing a strong contrast with the beautifully 

 opalized woods of the overlying Fayette sands. 



The lignite deposits of this division although well developed at 

 many points are not so extensive, or nearly so regular, as those of the 

 lignitic stage of the earlier Eocene. Most of the deposits range from 

 two to four feet, although from six to ten feet are by no means rare. 



Borings through these clays show them to have an aggregate 

 thickness of nearly 1,000 feet. A well at Lamb's Springs, in 

 Grime County, 999 feet deep passed through a series of clays, sands 

 and lignites the whole depth, and another boring at the Agricultural 

 and Mechanical College, five miles south of Bryan, in Brazos County, 

 reached the 900 foot mark before the drill entered the underlying 

 marine beds. 



On the Brazos River the contact between the overlying Fayette 



sands and these clays is seen on the south side of the James Hope 



Survey in a section showing: 



« 

 Gray sand and gravel 1 foot. 



Gray sand containing great quantities of silicified 

 wood. The w T ood is usually in large pieces — 

 four to six feet in length, and bleached white. 5 feet. 



Gray Indurated sand with ledges of soft sandstone. 10 " 



Gray sandstone jointed and thinly bedded, form- 

 ing base of Fayette sands 8 " 



Dark brown lignitic clay, showing yellow bands 

 from I to A inch in thickness and coated with 

 an efflorescence of sulphur, to water .... 20 " 



No. 5 corresponds to the upper brown clay of Prof. Penrose's 

 section of sulphur bluff in this neighborhood and a continuation of 

 the section will give: 30 



6. Lignite 1 foot. 



7. Gray sand • 1 " 



30 First Annual Eeport Geol. Survey of Texas, 1889, p. 54-55. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



8. Lignite 2 foot. 



9. Interbedded gray sand and chocolate and greenish 



clay, turned white in places on the surface . . 20 feet. 

 At Jones' bridge, about a mile further up the river, the same 

 greenish clays are found in a section showing : 



1. Yellowish gray sand 32 feet. 



2. Bluish-green, sandy clay containing fragments of 



lignite and breaking into ovoid blocks .... 46 " 



and still farther up the river numerous shoals are formed of the same 

 bluish-green clay. The section at this place is much obscured by 

 river deposits of a much later age. 31 Here we find : 



1. Brown river loam of sand and fine gravel ... 18 feet. 



2. Black sandy loam and clay loam mixed with 



brown sand and containing gravel and a few 



drift pebbles 2 " 



3. Pale blue clay 8 " 



4. Brown sand 1 foot. 



5. Coarse gravel containing water-worn, cretaceous 



shells 2 feet, 



6. Soft conglomeratic sandstone . 2 to 4 " 



7. Bluish-green liguitic clay, breaking into blocks 



and containing broken plant remains, extending 

 across the river and forming shoals 6 " 



Nos. 4, 5 and 6 of this section do not belong to these Yegua 

 clays but form a later deposit filling a portion of the old river 

 channel and are again seen near the mouth of the Little Brazos 

 River, at which place they are found above the pale blue clay, No. 3 

 of this section. 



No. 5 of the Hope section forms the uppermost bed of the Yegua 

 clays in this part of the State but, as will be seen by the section 

 already given, these clays do not occur in Polk County nor is there 

 any trace of them along the contact in Houston or Trinity Counties 

 where the uppermost beds are altogether gray sands and pinkish-gray 

 clays, the latter carrying broken plant remains. 



The basal portion of these clays, wherever seen, carry gypsum. In 

 the eastern portion of the area this appears to be disseminated pretty 

 generally through the whole series, although the crystals are notably 

 : " Fourth Annual Keport Geol. Survey of Texas, 1892, p. 48. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



smaller in the upper than the lower beds. Westward from the 

 Neches the gypsum crystals are, however, almost exclusively confined 

 to the fifty or sixty feet at the base. 



The base of these clays may be seen in a bluff on the Brazos 

 River about 500 yards south of the mouth of the Little Brazos, with 

 the following section : 32 



1. Black soil 2 feet 



2. Brown loam with limy concretions . . .25 feet 



3. Fine brownish-yellow sand with occasional 



streaks or pockets of gravel 15 feet 



4. Gravel, with unknown cretaceous shells . 2 to 4 feet 

 Yegua clays 5. Pale blue clay unfossiliferous 5 feet 



6. Dark green sand showing fossils in lower 



portion 2 to 5 feet 



7. Dark colored laminated sandy clay containing 



Terebra houstonia Harris; Levlfusus trabeatoides 

 Harris n. sp. ; Pseudoliva vetusta var. ; Pseudo- 

 lira vetusta var. pica; P. vetusta, var. clausa; Tri- 

 r§ gonarca corbuloides, Con. ; Pleurotoma (Pleuroto- 



<U 



pq mella) quasites, Harris; Nucula magnified, Con.; 



2 Leda opulenta, Con. ; Latirus moorei, Gabb. ; 



Corbula alabameiisis, Lea; Venericardia plani- 



S costa, Lam ; Phos texana, Gabb., var. ; Natica 

 arata, Gabb. ; Natica semilunata, var. janthinops 

 new var. ; Sigaretus inconstans, Aid. ; Yoldia 

 aldrichiana 33 4 feet 



8. Ferruginous sandstones 8 inches 



9. Same as No. 7. 



In this section the gypseous clays are not seen nor do they appear 

 anywhere in the river banks. This, however, may be expected as 

 their position there is obscured by broad, deep deposits of river 

 alluvium which cover wide areas and form the bottom lands of the 

 Brazos. East of the Little Brazos these clays are found occupying 

 their proper position at several places. A section seen on the line 

 of the Houston and Texas Central Railway near Elm Creek, on the 

 south side of Robertson County, shows : 3t 



32 Fourth Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1892, p. 



33 Harris M. S., Monograph of Texas Tertiary Fossils. 



34 Fourth Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1892, p. 50. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



1. Brownish-yellow sand and gravel 5 to 6 feet 



2. Brown coffee- colored clay with great quantities of 



gypsum crystals 2 to 6 feet 



3. Brown and yellowish- brown sand and ledges of indu- 



rated sand or ferruginous sandstone, the sands con- 

 taining Anomia ephippioides, Gabb ; Plicatala 

 filamentosa Conrad ; Spirorbis leptostoma, Swain ; 

 Volutilithes petrosa Conrad; and other fossils, 35 over 40 feet 



Going eastward the Navasota River section is practically the 

 same as on the Brazos. Neocene beds occur a short distance north 

 of Rock Creek, in Grime County. The Frio clays do not appear 

 anywhere along this river, but overlaps of the Neocene Nava- 

 sota beds (Oakville beds of Dumble) completely cover them. The 

 Fayette sands extend to about the mouth of Gibbon's Creek, or a 

 short distance above, and from there to near the northwest corner of 

 Madison County the whole country is occupied by the gray sands, 

 greenish blue lignitic clays and lignites of the Yegua showing prac- 

 tically the same sections as those found along the Brazos. Very 

 few sections of any value are found along this river, but the few 

 obtainable, supplemented by those farther inland, show the general 

 sequence here given. The gypseous clays are found in this region 

 lying close to the base and occupying the same position as near Elm 

 Creek on the western side of Brazos County. 



The Trinity River section shows the typical Yegua clays in many 

 of the bluffs. A section at Hyde's Bluff, in the southwestern portion 

 of Houston County, shows : 



1. Dark yellowish-brown clayey loam 8 feet 



2. Conglomerate of nodular iron ore, silicious pebbles, 

 silicified wood, coarse brown sand and fine gravel. 2 feet 



3. Dark blue sandy clay with iron pyrites. ... 10 feet 



4. Lignite 2 inches to 2 feet 



'to 



02 



£> 5. Light grayish-blue sand and gray clay inter- 

 im laminated t 10 feet 



2 6. Liguitic 2 to 4 feet 



~£ J 7. Dark purple colored clay H feet 



8. Gray sand containing rounded and flat oval 

 shaped concretions of indurated gray sand, to 

 water = 4 feet 



— *_ . 



' Harris' MS. Monograph of Texas Tertiary Fossils. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



The base of these beds is seen at Alabama bluii' some twenty 

 miles farther up the river, where a bed of blue elay with gypsum 

 crystals occurs iu coutact with the underlying fossiliferous sands of 

 the Marine beds. This section shows : 3ti 



1. Black sandy loam 5 feet 



Y egua 2. Gravelly conglomerate 2 feet 



^ a y s 3. Laminated blue clay with gypsum 2 to 5 feet 



4. Fossiliferous greenish-blue clay 4 feet 



d w 5. Green sand 5 feet 



a pq 6. Clay ironstone 10 inches 



7. Fossiliferous clay, to water 5 feet 



No. 3 of this section shows the base of the Yegua clays as found 

 on the Trinity River. 



Eastward towards the Neches River the deposits belonging to this 

 stage assume more and more the same structure and conditions of 

 deposition as found in Angelina and the other counties in the east- 

 ern portion of the area. 



The positions of the sections given show approximately the north- 

 ern boundary of the area occupied by these Yegua clays. The line 

 may be traced by the outcroppings of the gypseous clays and sands 

 from the Sabine River, near Sabine Town, in a generally northwest- 

 ern direction as far as the Angelina River, near the mouth of the 

 Atoi Creek, in Cherokee, and thence southwesterly, crossing the 

 Neches near Weches Post Office , passing through the eastern side of 

 the town of Crockett, crossing the Trinity at Alabama Bluff, the 

 Navasota River near the northwest corner of Madison County and 

 the Brazos at the locality shown in the section already given. To 

 the south they are circumscribed by the overlying Fayette sands. 



Unlike the rough, hilly region occupied by the Fayette sands, the 

 country occupied by the Yegua clays is generally flat. Sand hills 

 and ridges occur in several localities, but throughout the greater 

 portion level, prairie-like conditions prevail. 



The fauna of these deposits throughout east Texas is scanty in 

 the extreme. Of the vertebrates only one specimen, the portion of 

 the lower jaw of a species of Crocodilus, lias been obtained, and that 

 from a well at Bryan, while no invertebrate fossils have been found 

 anywhere east of the Brazos except at the base of the beds on that 



36 Third Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1891, p. 15. 

 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



river, although the beds found ou the Yegua are fossiliferous, and 

 those found farther west are reported to have yielded a very fair 

 number of that class of animal life. Plant remains are numerous, 

 both in the form of silicified and lignitized wood, and leaves of many 

 kinds are extremely abundant. None of these have yet been 

 studied, but from the fact that silicified palm wood occurs, although 

 sparingly, among the upper gray sands, the climate was slightly 

 warmer than at present. 



The general conditions of deposition during this period appear to 

 have been those of a marsh subject to periodical deep, wide-spread 

 inundation and a gradual, though slow, subsidence. The Marine 

 beds lying to the north evidently stood at a much higher relative 

 elevation than at present. Their southern boundary is everywhere 

 carved into bold outlines and deeply indented bays showing at places 

 steepsided and shelving bluffs where the Yegua clays rest uncon- 

 formably upon and against them, and from which boulders of fossil- 

 iferous sandstones have fallen and are now found in considerable 

 ]] umbers imbeded in the sands and lying between one and two 

 miles from the line of contact. At other places where bay- like con- 

 ditions prevailed, the placid waters of the flooded areas favored a 

 calmer deposition and growth of plant life ; the lines of contact are 

 not so far apart in their general conditions and range of dip. 



Instances of the former conditions are many. Typical illustra- 

 tions of this bluff-like shore line may be seen at Cook's Mountain, 

 in Houston County, and near Elm Creek, north of Bryan, in 

 Brazos County. At Cook's Mountain the hill rises almost abruptly 

 from the level of Milam branch to an elevation of 130 feet above 

 the stream bed, and is capped with fifty feet of altered glauconitic 

 fossiliferous sandstone. The gypseous clays of the Yegua stage are 

 found only on the south side of the stream, and rest upon a heavy 

 bed of fossiliferous sand projecting from the side of the mountain. 

 The Brazos section also shows this want of conformity in quite as 

 strong a manner. The Marine beds occur capping the higher hills 

 ten miles north of College Station and lying at an elevation of 375 

 feet, while College Station has an altitude of 350 feet. The dip of 

 the Marine beds in this section closely approaches 75 feet per mile 

 and these beds, after allowing for the difference of elevation, should 

 have been found at 725-750 feet in the well bored at the college, 

 flie bore, however, was over 900 feet deep before fossils occurred, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



and then tbey corresponded to a lower division of the Moseby Ferry 

 section than those found near Elm Creek. Moreover, on the south 

 prong of" Thompson's Creek, about eight miles north of the well 

 boulders and of ferruginous fossiliferous sandstone occur imbedded 

 in the yellowish gray sandy clay of the Yegua beds. 



The correlation of any of these three stages — the Frio clays, 

 Fayette sands and Yegua clays — with the deposits of Louisiana lying 

 immediately to the east is attended with more or less difficulty and 

 doubt from the fact that little or no work, and that of the most 

 general character, appears to have been done in that portion of the 

 State. The Grand Gulf, according to both Hilgard and Hopkins, 

 appears to have embraced the upper two and at least a portion of the 

 Yegua clays besides the upper calcareous sandstones, and was, accord- 

 ing to these writers, above the Vicksburg. The lower portion of the 

 Yegua clays were apparently considered by them to be of Jackson age. 

 Dr. Hilgard says, after describing the Grand Gulf formation: "On 

 the Sabine River, ' too, the upper portion of the profile is pretty 

 correctly reproduced. At the base of the Grand Gulf rocks we find 

 on the Bayou Taureau a seam of shell- limestone with Vicksburg 

 fossils. We then pass over lignito-gypseous strata to Sabine Town, 

 Texas, where we see about seventy feet of these overlying ledges of 

 blue fossiliferous limestone alternating every two or three feet with 

 what would be green sand marl like that of Vicksburg had not the 

 lime of the numerous shells, of which it contains casts, been removed 

 by subsequent dissolution. So far as I have seen, the usual leading 

 tbssils of Vicksburg are wanting here, while the greater saudiness of 

 the materials, as well as the prevalence of shallow sea bivalves indi- 

 cates their deposition in shallower water. As we proceed north- 

 ward from Sabine Town liguitic clays and lignite alone separate, and 

 sometimes altogether replace the limestone ledges which themselves 

 become poorer in fossils as we approach the northern edge of the 

 formation." 37 



According to Hopkins the Jackson beds consist of marine strata 

 with characteristic fossils of lignite and non-fossiliferous beds and 

 laminated sands and clays and among the marine beds massive beds 

 of clay full of selenite. 38 



37 Geol. Reconn. of La., American Journal of Science, Second Series, Vol. 

 XLVIII, 1869, p. 338. 



38 First Annual Report Louisiana State Geol. Survey, 1869, pp. 94-90; Second 

 Annual Report Louisiana State < }eol. Survey, 1871, pp. 7 to 84. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



With the exception of the lignite and characteristic Jackson fossils 

 this description would answer the Texas Frio clays as well as the 

 Yegua clays. Besides their contact with and underlying the 

 Neocene Navasota beds (Oakville beds) would in the absence of the 

 Vicksburg deposits closely correspond with the Frio clays. Their 

 extension to Sabine Town, however, where they would meet the 

 Marine beds of the Texas section would naturally lead to the in- 

 ference that both the Fayette sands and Yegua clays are absent in 

 Louisiana. 



This interpretation of the work done in Louisiana can hardly be 

 accepted, and until more information is obtainable the correlation of 

 the beds in these States must be left as an unsolved problem. 



Marine Beds. 



Lying immediately north of the Yegua clays we have an extensive 

 series of green sands, green sand marls, altered green sands contain- 

 ing thin strata of carbonate of iron, indurated altered fossiliferous 

 greed sand, green fossiliferous clays, glauconitic sandstones and clays 

 stratified, black and gray sandy clays, black and yellow clays with 

 limy concretions, brown and yellow fossiliferous sands with occasional 

 deposits of black sand containing gypsum crystals, and at wide in- 

 tervals small deposits or thin seams of lignite. Extensive deposits 

 of ferruginous sandstone and limonite, both in laminated and nodular 

 form, occur in the upper divisions. The prevailing deposits, however, 

 are the green sands in their several characters. The clays are of 

 minor importance and exist generally as thin beds of irregular dis- 

 tribution interstratified with the sands. The lignites are usually not 

 more than a few inches thick and are never continuous, and the 

 limonite deposits occur as nodular ores lying in heaps or mounds 

 among the grayish- brown and gray sands or as laminated ores cover- 

 ing wide areas of the surface, particularly throughout Cherokee, 

 Anderson, and Rusk Counties. These are the iron-ore fields of 

 East Texas, and constitute the series of beds known as the Marine 

 beds of the Texas section and have a total thickness of 650-700 feet. 



Stratigraphically these beds occupy a position intermediate between 

 the overlying Yegua clays and the lignitic stage, and form the upper- 

 most division of Penrose's timber belt or Sabine River beds. :i9 In 

 the reports of the Texas Geological Survey these beds have been 



;,J First Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1889, pp. 22-47. 




1895. ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



divided into two groups or series, the basal from its greatest develop- 

 ment in Cherokee County was called, tentatively, the " Mount Sel- 

 mau ' ' series, and the upper, from its typical development in Houston 

 County, received the name of the "Cook's Mountain" series. This 

 division was made partly on lithological grounds, the lower or Mount 

 Selman series being generally heavier bedded and made up through- 

 out its greater extent of dark green, and brown sands and sandstones, 

 with very thin seams of iron and while fossiliferous to a greater or 

 less extent the fossils are much fewer than in the upper or Cook's 

 Mountain series, and exist almost altogether in the form of casts. 

 On the other hand the upper series, which includes the highest beds of 

 the Marine stage, is to a great extent loose sands and clays with heavy 

 beds of laminated iron ore and contains a large and beautifully pre- 

 served fauna. 



While probably the distinctive lithological differences between the 

 upper and lower divisions of these beds may not hold good at all 

 points and it may be difficult under the present existing conditions 

 to draw the exact line between them yet the general paucity of life 

 in these lower beds appears in marked contrast with the teeming life 

 of the upper. 



In the northeastern portion of the State, where in Cass, Marion 

 and Morris Counties, these beds appear only as remnants of a wide- 

 spread cover, or as isolated patches forming the low hills of the 

 region, nothing but the lower beds are seen. These are brown, 

 brownish-yellow and green in color, indurated and moderately hard 

 sands and sandstones, and have till now shown no trace whatever 

 of animal life. In Harrison County the greenish- yellow sandstones 

 seen near the Marshall waterworks pumping station' show occasional 

 casts of Venericardia planicosta Lam. , and the same form has also 

 been found near Hynson's Springs, in the same county. These lie 

 at the base of the Marine beds as shown in the section at the pump- 

 ing house. 



1. Brown gravelly sand 5 feet 



o> 2. Laminated iron ore and ferruginous sandstone . 1£ feet 



'£ 3. Greenish-yellow altered glauconitic sandstone 



^ with casts of Veuer icardia planicosta. ... 4 feet 



.2 4. Laminated or thinly stratified red and white 



"a sands and sandy clays forming uppermost bed 



^ of the lignitic in this portion of the county . 45 feet 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Coming westward the same unfossiliferous condition of these lower 

 beds is seen along the south side of the Sabine River in Gregg 

 County, in a section at Iron Bridge Post Office. Here the bluff 

 shows : 



1. Surface dark brown or coffee-colored sand with 



broken fragments of sandstone 6 feet 



2. Heavy bed of yellowish-brown sandstone .... 6 feet 



3. Brown sand 6 feet 



4. Brown or yellowish-brown sandstone similar to No. 



2, but softer and containing alternate strata of 



brown sand , 10 feet 



5. Brown or yellowish-brown sand containing occa- 



sional small nodules or concretions of iron . . 12 feet 



In the Mount Selman region, in Cherokee County, the section 

 shown along the line of the Tyler Southeastern Railway is more 

 sand than sandstone, and while containing a few fossil casts cannot 

 be called fossiliferous throughout. The general section shown from 

 Jacksonville to Bullard gives : 40 



1. Gray surface sand 10 feet 



2. Brown sand, ferruginous pebbles and iron ore . . 15 feet 



3. Mottled sand 10 feet 



4. Brownish- yellow sand 4 feet 



5. Brownish- yellow standstone 10 feet 



6. Alternate strata of laminated iron ore and brown 



sand, the ore generally from two to ten inches 



and the sand from one to two feet thick .... 8 feet 



7. Dark green sand containing casts of small bivalve 



shells 5 feet 



8. White clayey sand 1 foot 



9. Dark green, nearly black, sand containing thin 



seams of ferruginous material near top, and also 

 containing small fish teeth and Vener war xlla plan i- 

 costa and Sphcerella antiproducta in very small 

 numbers . . . , 12 feet 



10. Brown sand • 10 feet 



11. White sand 10 feet 



Third Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1891, p. 53. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. HI 



12. Alternate strata of brown sand and laminated iron 



ore, one generally wavy and not more than two 

 to six inches with sand from one to two feet 

 thick 20 feet 



13. Pale-blue and brown clay mottled in places and 



laminated in others 15 feet 



14. Alternate strata of glauconitic brown sand and 



iron ore, the ore generally irregularly de- 

 posited, laminated and silicious and not exceed- 

 ing six inches to one one foot, the sand from six 

 inches to two feet thick 55 feet 



15. Brown sand forming surface at Bullard, altered 



green sand changing to yellow a few feet under 

 ground 40 feet 



16. Dark green sand containing a few fossil shells and 



fish teeth 24 feet 



^.o 17. Lignite or "black dirt" containing leaves ... 2 feet 

 h3 "3 18. Dark lignitic clay * . . . 5 feet 



Nos. 17 and 18 of this section belong to the lignitic beds. 



On approaching the Brazos the base of these beds is again seen 

 about two miles south of Calvert, in Robertson County, where they 

 form a ridge of brownish- yellow sandstone of very similar texture 

 and appearance as the sandstones in Harrison County, and appear to 

 be altogether unfossiliferous. Where the International and Great 

 Northern Railway crosses the Brazos River these beds are again seen 

 in the following section : 



1. Yellow sandy clay with limy concretions .... 20 feet 



2. Brown sand and sandstones interstratified ... 4 to 6 feet 



3. Dark green, almost black, unfossiliferous sand . 5 feet 



4. Thinly laminated dark green sand 6 feet 



5. Irregular belt of ferruginous sandstone i to 1 foot 



6. Dark green, almost black, sand, to water .... 3 feet 

 The lower and upper divisions grade into each other so imper- 

 ceptibly that so far as the actual division is lithologically concerned 

 any line of separation would be but a very arbitrary one. The 

 wide distinction, however, in the state of preservation and condition 

 of the contained fossils might possibly enable us to approximately 

 indicate the limits within which the several beds might be assigned 

 to each. As already stated the fossils of the lower or Mount Sel- 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



man beds exist almost wholly in the form of casts, whereas, on the 

 other hand, the fauna of the Cook's Mountain, or upper beds, is 

 beautifully preserved, many being in a very perfect condition and 

 exist in great numbers. 



In crossing the whole series from north to south the first indica- 

 tion of well preserved fossils in the east occurs in the southern por- 

 tion of Rusk County, near Mount Enterprise, and on Stevens branch, 

 a tributary of Shawnee Creek. Farther west they are found in 

 Cherokee, south of Jacksonville, a few miles west pf Palestine, in 

 Anderson, near the mouth of Elkhart Creek, in Houston, near Cen- 

 treville, in Leon, and south of Franklin, in Robertson County, and 

 near the Burleson County north line on the Brazos. These locali- 

 ties may therefore be taken as approximately indicating the northern 

 line of the "Cook's Mountain " or upper series of the Marine beds 

 as known in Texas, but it must be remembered that on the eastern 

 side very extensive erosion has taken place, and probably these beds 

 may have extended much farther north. At any rate the line may 

 be considered as only an approximate division of what evidently 

 constitutes but one stage of the Eocene. 



To. the south of this approximate boundary we have an extensive 

 series of green sands, glauconitic sands, ferruginous sandstones, clays 

 and iron ores in most resj>ects similar to those lying north of it. The 

 green sands, as a general thing, are less altered and more glauconitic, 

 the sands less indurated and the iron ore deposits much heavier and 

 almost altogether laminated. The fauna is very much richer both 

 in species and number of specimens, and the fossils all in a good 

 state of preservation and easily obtainable. 



While these beds are known to exist in isolated hills throughout 

 the counties of Rusk, Nacogdoches, San Augustine and Sabine 

 Counties, lying east of the Angelina River, no satisfactory sections have 

 been obtained and only a few of the fossils from these areas have been 

 determined. According to Professor Heilprin 41 these include Veneri- 

 cardia transversa Lea, Crassatella texana Heilp., Pecten deshayesii 

 Lea, Ostrea alabamensis Lea, 0. sellosformia Lea and var. divaricata 

 Lea, from San Augustine County. Pectuneulus idoneus Con., and 

 Ostrea sellceformis, var. divaricata Lea, from Nacogdoches County, 



" Proceedings A.cad. of N. S., Phila., Oct. 1800, pp. 303-404. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ho 



have been identified by Mr. Harris.* 2 Pseudoliva vetusta Con., 

 Venerieardia planicosta Lam., have also been obtained from the bluff 

 at Sabine Town. The fossils found in Rusk and Nacogdoches 

 Counties are well preserved and enclosed in a bluish- green indurated 

 marl and hard to extract in a condition suitable for identification. 

 The Sabine Town fossils are enclosed in a brown sand. Seutella 

 caput- sinensis Heilpr. , also occurs in San Augustine as well as west 

 of the Angelina at McBee's School and near Alto, in Cherokee 

 County. 



West of the Angelina River the most important section obtained 

 is that at Alto, in Cherokee County. This section embraces a series 

 of green sands and altered glauconitic sands and sandstones lying close 

 to the top of the " Cook Mountain" beds, and forms the uppermost 

 Eocene deposit in this portion of the State. The section combines the 

 whole of the green sand deposits from Alto, eastward to the edge of 

 the Angelina River " bottom lands," eight or ten miles farther east, 

 and the whole or the greater portion of the section may also be taken 

 as representative of the structure of the country from Alto south- 

 westward to the Neches. The section shows: 



1. Gray sand 5 to 20 feet. 



2. Ferruginous sandstone 1 foot. 



3. Iron pyrites and lignite >} to 1 foot. 



4. Laminated iron ore and brown sand .... 10 to 15 feet. 



5. Brown and yellowish-brown altered glauconitic 



sand with streaks and nodules of calcareous 

 matter and containing Terebra houstonia Har- 

 ris, n. sp. , Pleurotoma (Surcula) gabbii 

 Conrad, Ostrea sellceformis, var. divarieata Lea, 

 Pinna, sp. , Trigonarca pulchra Gabb, Pseudoliva 

 vetusta Con., Volutilithes petrosa Con., Latirus 

 moored Gabb, ( 'orbula texana Harris, Corbula 

 aldrichi, var. smithvillensis Harris, Dentalium 

 minutistriatum Gabb, Venerieardia planicosta 

 Lam., Venerieardia rotunda Lea, Clavilithes 



'-' Harris' MS.. Monograph Texas Tertiary fossils. 



Notk. — I have not visited any of the Idealities referred to in Eusk, Nacog- 

 doches and Sabine Counties. Rusk and Nacogdoches ( lounties were examined in 

 1890 by Mr. J. B. Walker. Ilis sections can he seen in the Second Annual Re- 

 port, Geol. Survey of Texas, 1891, under these county headings. They appear to 

 me to be slightly unreliable. The Sabine Town fossils were sent from there by 

 the Postmaster to Mr. Bumble at his request. K. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



rcgexa Harris, n. sp., Phos texana Gabb 

 var. , Distortio septemdentata Gabb, Solarium 

 aeutum, var. meekanum Gabb, Terebellum, 

 Calyptrophorus velatus Con., Mesalia clai- 



bornensis Con., Anomia ephippioides Gabb, 

 Cerithium vinctum Whitf. , Pecten claibomensis 

 Conrad, Pecten deshayesii Lea, Plicatula fila- 

 mentosa Con. , Cytherea texacola Harris, ( 'ras- 

 satella texana Heilp. , Turritella nasuta Gabb, 

 and many of these in profusion 6 feet. 



6. Yellowish-brown and grayish-brown often grayish- 



green indurated green sands containing most of 

 the fossils found in No. 5 and an additional 

 fauna of Pleurotoma (Drillia) nodocarinata 

 Gabb, Volutilithes petrosa var. indenta Conrad, 

 Caricella subangulata var. cherokeensis Harris, 

 Cassidaria brevicostata Aid., Pholadomya clai- 

 bomensis Aid., Byssoarca cuculloides Con., 

 Martesia texana Harris, n. sp. Dentalium 

 minuti striatum var. dumblei, n. var., Protocar- 

 dium nieolletti Con. var., Nat Ira newtohensis 

 Aid., Natica limula var., Rimella texana, var. 

 /ilana, new var. Cancellaria panones Harris, n. 

 sp. , Clavilithes (Papillina) dumosa, var. trapa- 

 quara Harris, C. humerosa, var. texana Harris, 

 Cassidaria brevicosta Aid., Turritella dutexta 

 Harris, Seutella caput- sinensis Heilpr., and fish 

 teeth 20 feet. 



7. Green sands with casts of fossils 6 " 



8. Brown altered glauconitic sandstone with casts of 



fossils 30 " 



9. Green sand with fish teeth and Chun* sauridens 



Con., Anomia ephippioides Gabb, Byssoarca 

 cuculloides Con., Trigonarca pulchra Gabb, 

 Volutilithes petrosa Con., Volutilithes precursor 

 Dall, and others belonging to Nos. 5 and 6 . . 8 " 

 The localities from which these fossils were obtained all lie be- 

 tween Alto and the Angelina River. The specimens are, as a general 

 thing, very plentiful, and in most localities easily freed from the 






1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



enclosing matrix, those in the brownish-yellow sand being often 

 free. 



As already stated these beds can be easily traced from this point 

 in a southwesterly direction for many miles, the bed containing 

 the Scutella caput- sinensis forming a particularly well marked horizon. 

 No Scutellse, however, have yet been found in Houston County or to 

 the west, although plentiful from the Neches eastward to San Augus- 

 tine. Four miles west of Alto, a range of flat-topped steep- sided 

 hills show a general section of: 



1. Gray sand 20 feet. 



2. Indurated yellow sand containing numerous Scu- 



tellae and Ostrea selhcfonnis, var. divaricata 

 Lea, Anomia ephippioides Gabb, Pseudoliva 

 vehista Con., Venerieardia planicosta Lam., and 

 Cytherea tornadonis Harris 43 20 feet. 



3. Red sand with casts of fossils 15 " 



4. Green sand with casts of fossils visible .... 4 " 

 Crossing the Niches into Houston County the section as shown in 



a well near Robbins' Ferry shows : 



1. Gray sand 6 inches to 1 foot. 



2. Laminated iron ore 4 inches to 10 inches. 



3. Indurated yellow fossiliferous sandy marl contain- 



ing Ancilla (Olivula) staminea Con., Ostrea sella> 

 fonnis, var. divaricata Lea, Anomia ephippioides 

 Gabb, Venerieardia planicosta Lam. , and Orassa- 

 tella trapaquara Harris 44 2 feet. 



4. Yellow sand 10 



5. Clay ? 1\ 



6. Fossiliferous green sandy clay containing Anomia 



ephipjiioides Gabb, Venerieardia planicosta 

 Lam., Rimella texana, var. pinna, new variety, 

 Calyptrophorus velatus Con. 15 5 to 



7. Red clay 3 to 4 



8. Blue marl with fossils same as No. 6 18 " 



9. Brown sand to bottom of well 5 " 



At the crossing of the San Pedro Creek by the Rusk road in the 



1:1 Harris, MSS., Monograph of Texas Tertiary Fossils. 



u Harris Mss. Monograph of Texas Tertiary fossils. 



45 First Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1889, p. 34. 





<< 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



same county, the south bank of the creek shows a section of 



1. Gray sands 25 feet 



2. Brown sand and altered green sand with stratified 



ferruginous material and thin laminre of iron 



ore near base 6 feet 



4. Yellow indurated fossiliferous altered green sand 



packed with shells 20 feet 



The eastern portion of Hurricane Bayou forms the approximate 

 southern boundary of the Marine beds for six or eight miles east of 

 Crockett. Here, when the Bayou is dry, or the water at a low stage, 

 an extremely interesting fauna may readily be obtained. Among 

 the fossils found we have Terebra texagyra Harris var. , T. lioustonia 

 Harris n. sp., Conus sauridens Con., Pleu.rotoma (Surcula) gabbii 

 Con., PL heilpriniana H. n. sp., PL (Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb., 

 PI. ehildreni Lea, var. bilota, H., PL huppertzi Harris, n. sp. PL 

 megapis H. n. sp., PL (Drillia) texacona Harris, PL (Drillia') texana 

 Gabb., PL vaughani var. Harris, PL retefera H., PL (3Iangellia) 

 in fa >i* var. H. , Mr. Olivelkt bombylis var. bivrlesonia H., Andlla 

 (OUvula) staminea Con., Anomia ephippioides Gabb., Plicatida f/a- 

 mentosa Con., Pecten sp., Pinna sp., Pectunculus idoneus Con., Pseti- 

 doliva vetusta Con. var., Volutilithes petrosa Con., Caricella demissa 

 var. texana Gabb., Marginella seminoides Gabb., Lapparia pactilis 

 var. mooreana Gabb. , Turricula (Conomitra) texana H., Terebra 

 amoena Con., T. costata Lea, var., Latirus moorei Gabb., Corbula 

 alabamensis Lea, Dentalium minutistriatum Gabb., Cadulus sub- 

 coarcuatus Gabb., Venericardia rotunda Lea, V. planicosta Lam., 

 Crassatella texanaH., Cytherea tornadonisH., Clavilithes (Papillina) 

 (buiiosa var. H, G. trapaqaara H., Fusvs mortoni var. viortonopsis 

 Gabb, Clavilithes humerosa var. texana H., Phos texana Gabb var., 

 Distort io septemdentata Gabb, Cassidaria planotecta Aid., Solarium 

 acutum var. meehanum Gabb, Natiea acuta Gabb, Natica limula 

 var., Sigaretus d eel his Con. , Mesalia claibornensis Con., Be lose jri a 

 ungula Gabb, Spirorbis leptostoma Swain, and the corals Occulina 

 Heilpr., Turbinolia pharetra Lea, Trochosmilia mortoni Gabb and 

 I Torn, and Endojmehys ma,clurii Lea. 



These fossils all occur in an altered green sand of a brownish 

 yellow color in places indurated into hard shabby sandstones, but the 

 greater portion soft. This overlies a dark green sand and clay as 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIILADEEPIII A. 117 



seen in a well at Mr. K. Jones' house, nearly half a mile north of 

 the Bayou. The section of the well shows : 



1. Yellowish-hrown sandy clay 6 feet 



2. Joint clay 6 feet 



3. Thinlv laminated black fossiliferous sand 4 feet 



4. Bluish green fossiliferous sands 14 feet 



Nos. 3 and 4 hold fossils closely corresponding to those found on 



the Bayou with a few additional species. 



West of Crockett, about two miles, we have Cook's Mountain, an 

 isolated hill rising about 460 feet above sea level and showing a 

 more or less precipitous face on every side. This face, however, is 

 marked by a series of benches and the general section shown on 

 the eastern side, from Milam branch to the top of the mountain, 

 shows : 



1. Brown ferruginous sandstone with occasional casts 



of a small bivalve 10 feet 



2. Yellow-colored crossbedded altered glauconitic sand 40 feet 



3. Brown sand and sandstone with occasional seams 



of ferruginous material 55 feet 



4. Brown ferruginous sandstone coutaiuiug Ostrea sel- 



heformisvar. divaricata Lea, and 0. alabamensis 



Lea in considerable numbers . 10 feet 



5. Iron ore 1 foot 



6. Brown sand containing Bulimella hellogii Gabb., 



Terebra texagyra var. Harris, T. houstonia Har- 

 ris, n. sp., Conus sauridens Con., Plewotoma 

 (Surcula) gabbii Con., PL (Coehlespira) engonata 

 Con., PL (Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb., PI. 

 (Drillia) texana var. pleboides Harris, PI. (Man- 

 gelia ) in fans var., PL sp., Ancilla ( Olivella) stam- 

 inea Con., Ostrea alabamensis Lea, 0. selloz- 

 founts var. divaricata Lea, Anomia ephippioides 

 Gabb., Plieatula filamentosa Con.,Avieula sp. , 

 Pinna sp., Pseudoliva vetusiaCon. var., Volutil- 

 ithes petrosa Con., V. petrosa, var. indenta Con., 

 V- precursor Dall. var., Caricelh subangulata 

 var. cherokeensis Harris, Lapparia paetilis var. 

 mooreana Gabb., Latirus moorei Gabb., Cornu- 

 Una armigera Con., Corbula alabamensis Lea, 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Venericardia planicosta Lam., Cytherea texacola 

 Harris, Clavilithes regexa Harris, n. sp. , Phos 

 texana Gabb. var. , Distortio septemdentata 

 Gabb. , Scala, Natica arata Gabb., N. limula 

 var., Sigaretus deelivis Con., Calyptrophorus 

 velatus Con. Turritella nasuta var. houstonia 

 Harris, T. nasuta Gabb., Belosepia ungula 

 Gabb., and tbe corals Oceulina Heilpr., Turbl- 

 nolia pharetra Lea, Trochosmilia mortoni Gabb 

 and Horn, and Endopachys maclurii Lea. A 

 number of fish teeth also occur in this bed . . 15 feet 

 Going north from the Hurricane Bayou localities we find fossili- 

 ferous indurated brownish-yellow and green marly sands at Han- 

 uon's mill, and on the Murchison prairie and eastward. A section 

 of Murchison prairie shows : 



1. Black soil 1 to 2 feet 



2. Brownish- yellow altered green sand 4 feet 



3. Brown sand containing Ostrea alabamensis Lea, 



Ostrea sellceformis var. divaricata Lea, Pecten des- 

 hayesii Lea, Cerith ium vinctum Whitf. , Venericar- 

 dia alticosta var. perantiqua Con., Venericardia 

 planicosta Lam., and Cytherea texacola Har- 

 ris, Volutilithes petrosa var. indenta Con., Cor- 

 nulina armigera Con 4 feet 



4. Bluish green marly sand indurated and containing 



similar fossils to No. 3, as well as Corbula al- 

 drichi var. smiihvillensis Harris, ( 'rassatella tex- 

 ana Heilpr., Crassatella trapaquara Harris, and 



( )/therea texacola H 10 feet 



Still farther north, at Elkhart, the same section appears. A 

 section at Elkhart wells shows : 



1. Brown and black plastic clays containing irony 



pebbles, silicified wood and calcareous nodules . 10 feet 



2. Gray and yellow brown clays in thin laminae ... 5 feet 



3. Dark brown altered green sand with fossil casts . 1 foot 



4. Gray laminated plastic clays 3 feet 



5. Green sand, hard for eight or ten inches, full of 



shells and interbedded with greenish Mack clay 4 feet 

 This bed, No. 5, contains Plicatula filamentosa Conrad, Pimm sp., 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



aud other fossils similar to those occurring in the dark green sand 

 and greenish black clay as ^een in the Jones' well near Hurricane 

 Bayou, where it has a known thickness of fourteen feet. Brown 

 clays with pebbles occur near Hague's gin four miles northeast of 

 Jones' well, and gray and bluish yellow clays with calcareous 

 nodules can be traced as far south as the same place where they have 

 a thickness of five feet aud are underlaid by the same brown sand, 

 five to six feet thick, as found in No. 3 of the Elkhart section. 



On the Trinity River we have the section well exposed in a series 

 of bluffs extending from Alabama Bluff on the south to the northern 

 edge of Houston County. The section at Alabama Bluff gives the 

 contact with the overlying Yegua clays and shows a slight uncon- 

 formability between the two stages. Omitting the upper portion of 

 the section we have : 



4. Fossiliferous greenish-blue clay 4 feet. 



5. Green sand altered to a brownish-yellow sand 



with thin strata of ferruginous material inter- 

 stratified and containing Vohula eonradiana 

 Gabb, Conus sauridens Conrad, Pleurotoma 

 (Surctdcb) yabbii Con., PL (Cochlespira) en- 

 gonata Con., PL (Surculd) moorei Gabb, PL 

 (Drillia~) nodoearinata Gabb, PL sp. , Ancilla 

 (Olicula) staminea Con., Aitomia ephippioides 

 Gabb, Pliratitla filamentosa Con., Trigonarca 

 pulehra Gabb, T. corbuhides Con. , Leda hous- 

 tonia Harris, Pseudoliva vetusta Con. var., Voluti- 

 lithes jjetrosa Con. , Caricella demis$a,Ym: texana 

 Gabb, Turricula (Conomitra) texana Harris, T. 

 polita Gabb, Latirus moorei Gabb, Corbula ala- 

 bamensis Lea, Cadulus sub-coarcuatus Gabb, 

 Fusus mortoni, var. mortonopm Gabb, Clavili- 

 thes penrosei Heilprin, Phos texana Gabb, Diu- 

 tortio septemdentata Gabb, Cassidaria planotecta 

 Aid., Solarium bellastriatum Con., Natica arata 

 Gabb, iV. limula Con., Mesalia claibornensis 

 Con., Turritellu nasuta Con., Spirorbis leptos- 

 toma Swaiu, Tarbinolia pharetra Lea . . . 5 to 6 feet. 



6. Ferruginous sandstone with iron- ore .... 1 to 2 " 



7. Green sand and ferruginous material same as No. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



5 and containing same fossils with addition of 

 Pleurotoma heilpriniana Harris, n. sp. , Ostrea 

 sellosformis, var. divaricata Lea, Pinna, sp. , 

 Byssoarea cuculloides Con., Lapparia pactilis, 

 var. mooreana Gabb, Venerieardia planicosta 

 Lam., Cra&satella texana Harris, Cytherea texa- 

 cola Harris, Clavilithes (PapUliuu) dumosa, var. 

 trapaquara Harris, Natica sp., Tnrritella nasuta, 

 var. hoiidoniit, Harris, Belosepia ungula Gabb, 



Euphyla trapaquara Harris. 40 4 feet. 



Going north from here the next bluff is known as Brookiield's 



Bluff, six miles north of Alabama. No fossils were obtained here 



and the bluff presents a section of: 



1. Sand and gravel 20 feet. 



2. Brown sandstone in heavy bed 10 " 



3. Clay ironstone 1 foot. 



4. Laminated dark blue sand and light gray clays 



with iron pyrites 8 feet. 



5. Lignite 2 inches. 



G. Same as No. 4 5 feet. 



7. Thin seam of ferruginous sandstone 6 inches. 



8. Same as No. 4, getting darker in lower portion of 



the beds and covered in places with a yellow 

 efflorescence of sulphur. Water issuing from 

 these beds is sulphurous and the springs show 

 considerable quantities of hydrogen sulphide 



to level of river 15 feet. 



Five miles farther up the river is Hall's Bluff showing a section of: 



1. Gravel and sand 25 to 30 feet. 



2. Fossiliferous sandstone containing Ostrea sella for- 



mis, var. divaricata Lea, Cerithium vinctum 

 Whitf. , and casts of others 4 " 



3. Red sandstone 10 " 



4. Yellowish-white sand 2 " 



5. Brown clay with gypsum crystals b' inches. 



6. Yellowish- white sand 5 feet. 



7. Irregular stratum of clay ironstone boulders . . 8 inches. 



"' Harris Mss. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



8. Dark greensand, weathering brown, containing 



fish teeth but not invertebrates ....... 6 feet. 



9. Brown sand 4 " 



At Wooter's Bluff, six miles farther north, the beds are also 



found to be unfossiliferous although the higher grounds lying at 

 some distance away from the river show brown sandstones and altered 

 green sands with few fbssils. The section at the bluff appears to be 

 more of a lignitic nature towards the base. 



1. Brown and yellowish- brown sand . . . . 10 to 15 feet. 



2. Clay ironstone 1 to 3 inches. 



3. Dark gray micaceous clay, weathering brown 



on outside 20 feet. 



4. Clay ironstone * ... 1 to 2 inches. 



5. Dark blue or bluish-black micaceous clayey 



sand 2 to 6 feet. 



About a mile and a half east of this bluff the yellowish clay with 

 limy nodules seen at Elkhart and at Hagues gins occurs immediately 

 below a heavy deposit of yellowish-gray sand. 



Crossing the Trinity and going west the "red lands" of Leon 

 County closely correspond in texture and faunal life with the beds 

 of Houston County on the east and the beds found in the northwest 

 corner of Madison County and the Wheelock prairie region. In 

 fact southwest Leon forms but an extension of the Madison and 

 Robertson County beds. A section at the northwest corner of Madi- 

 son may be taken as a type of these "red lands." This section 

 shows : 



1. Brown sand, gravel and conglomerate boulders . 20 feet. 



2. Brownish-yellow sand containing Conns sauHdens 



Con., Pleurotoma, sp., Ostrea selhej'ormis, var. 

 divaricata Lea, Anomia ephippioides Gabb, Pli- 

 catula fihuneiitoxa Con., Pseudoliva vetusta Con., 

 var., Corbula alabamensis Lea, Venericardia 

 planicosta Lam., Clarilithes huinerosa, var. 

 texana Harris, Cerithium vinctum Whitf. and 

 Mesalia elaibornerms Con 2 feet. 



3. Fossiliferous sandstone containing a portion of 



these fossils 1 foot. 



4. Brown sand 



9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Cedar Creek, uear Wheelock lies nine miles west of this point 

 audit was from that place the fossils described by Gabb were ob- 

 tained. In the list of species described by that writer we find 

 Belosepia ungula Gabb, Murex (Odontopolys) compsorhytis Gabb, 

 Fusus mortonopsis Gabb, Neptunea enter ogr am ma Gabb, Pleuro- 

 toma, Turns kellogii Gabb, T. texana Gabb, T. retifera Gabb, T. 

 nodocarinata Gabb, Eucheilodoii. reticulata Gabb, Seobinella crassi- 

 plicata Gabb, S. leviplicata Gabb, Distortio s&ptemdentata Gabb, 

 Phos texana Gabb, Pseudoliva fusijormis Con. mss. , P. linosa Con., 

 rass. , P. carinata Con. mss.', P. perspeotiva Con. Mss., Gastridium 

 vetustum Con. , Agaronia punctulifera Gabb, Fasciolaria moorei Gabb, 

 Cijinbiola texana Gabb, Mitra mooreana Gabb, M. exilis Gabb, Erato 

 semenoides Gabb, Never ita arata Gabb, Monoptygma crassiplica Con. 

 Mss. , Architectonica meekana Gabb, Spirorbis leptostoma Swain, Tur- 

 ritella nasuta Gabb, Den.talium minutistriatum Gabb, Ditrupa sub- 

 coarcuata Gabb, Bulla kellogii Gabb, Volvula conradiana Gabb, 

 Corbula texana Gabb, Oibota mississippiensis Con., Anomia ephippi- 

 oides Gabb. 47 



The whole, or nearly the whole of these species have been obtained 

 by the Texas Survey during the course of the work in that region, 

 and several others have been added to the above list. 



The section shown on Cedar Creek and in the immediate vicinity 

 is as follows: 



1. Brown prairie sandy soil with occasional blocks or 



fragments of ferruginous sandstone containing 

 great quantities of Plicatula filamentosa Gabb, 

 and Spirorbis leptostoma Swain 5-15 feet. 



2. Brown altered green sand and clay 4 " 



3. Thin seam of ferruginous sandstone 1 foot. 



Nos. 2 and 3 contain quite an extensive fauna comprising 



Acttcou, punctatus Lea, Bulimclla kellogii Gabb, Terebra houstonia 

 n. sp. , Harris, Conus sauridens Conrad, Pleurotoma (Surcula) 

 gabbii Con., PI — , PI. (Coehlespira) engonata Gabb, PI. bella Con., 

 PL (Surcula) moorei var., Gabb, PI. (Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb, 

 PL terebriformis Mr., n. sp. , PL (Drillia) texacona Harris, PL (Bor- 

 sonia) plenta Harris, Cancellaria tortiplica Con., Ancilla (Olivula) 

 staminea Con., Pseudoliva vetusta, var. picta, P. vetusta Con., var. 



17 Journal Axademy «>f Nat. Sci. of Phila., Second Series, Vol. 4, pp. 37G-3,sii 

 and plates 07 and li'.t. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



P. vetusta, var. fusiformis Lea, Ostrea aktbamensis Lea, 0. sellae- 

 formis, var. divaricata Lea, Anomia ephippioides Gabb, Plicatula 

 fUamentosa Conrad, Byssoarca cueulloides Con., Trigonarca pulchra 

 Gabb, T. corbuloides Coil, Nucula magnified Con., Leda opulenta 

 Con., Yoldia elaibornensis Conrad, Marginella semen Lea, Volutili- 

 thes petrosa Con., V. precursor Dall, V. dalli Harris, n. sp., Turri- 

 Gula polita Gabb, Latirus moorei Gabb, Comulina armigera Gabb, 

 Pteropsis conradi Dana, Corbula aldrichi, var. smithvillensis Harris, 

 C. texana Gabb, C. alabamensis Lea, Dentalium minutistriatum 

 Gabb, Dentnllum minutistriatum Gabb, var. dumblei, n. var., 

 Venericardia planicosta Lam, Cyiherea tornadonis Harris, C. bastro- 

 pensis Harris, Fusus mortoni var. mortonopsis Gabb, Phos texana 

 Gabb var., Distortio septemdentata Gabb, Tuba antiquata, var. 

 texana u. var., Solarium serobiculatum Con., S. vespertinum Gabb, 

 Xatiea arata Gabb, N. li inula Con., N. semilunata, var. janthinops 

 n. var., Sigaretus inconstans Aid., S. declivis Coil, Pyrula (Fuso- 

 ficula) Aid., P. (Fusoficula~) penita Con. , var., Mesalia elaibornensis 

 Con., Turritella nasuta Gabb, T. dumblei Harris n. sp. , Aturia, 

 near zic zac. Belosepia ungula Gabb, Flabellum sp., Turbinolia 

 pharetra Lea and Lunulites sp. 



4. Pale to purplish-pink clay found 200 yards 



fartber down Cedar Creek than No. 3. 



Very few fossils found in this bed ... 4 to 6 feet. 



5. Dark grayish-green sand containing, in addi- 



tion to the greater number of the fossils 

 found in No. 2, the following : Pleurotoma 

 ehildreni, var. bilota Harris, Cancellaria 

 panones, var. junipera Harris, Cancellaria 

 gemmata Con., Volutiliihes petrosa, var. 

 indenta Con., Cadulus sub-coarcuatus Gabb, 

 Chrysodoinus enterogramma Gabb and 

 Solarium acutum, var. meekanum Gabb 4 " 



6. Green sand with laminae of clay containing 



nearly the same fauna as in Nos. 3 and 5 

 with Actaion punetatus Lea and PL retifera 

 Gabb, 48 additional 4 to 6 " 



7. Dark brown and purplish-brown sand and 



48 Harris Mss. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



clay, laminated with fossils in sand, to bed 



of creek 2 feet. 



The next section west of this is on Campbell's Creek, near Dunn's 

 ranch and about six miles west of Wbeelock. This shows : 



1. Black soil ... 2 to 4 feet. 



2. Brown sand with calcareous material ... 4 to 8 " 



3. Ferruginous brown sandstone and sands, 



altered green sands with Conns sauridens 

 Con., Pleurotomu (Surcida) gabbii Con., 

 PL (Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb, PI. 

 (Borsonia) plenta Harris, Ancilla (Olivula) 

 st 'ami) tea Con., Ostreasellceformis, var. divari- 

 eata Lea, Anomia ephippioides Gabb, iVvt- 

 culamagnifica Con., Pseudoliva vetusta Con., 

 var., P. vetusta, var. fusiformis Lea, Volu- 

 tilithes petrosa, var. indenta Con. , V. pre- 

 cursor Dall, Latirus moorei Gabb, Corbula 

 texana Gabb, Venericardia planieosta Lam., 

 Fusus mortoni, var. mortonopsis Gabb, 

 Phos texana Gabb, var., Distortio septem- 

 dentata Gabb, Sigaretus declivis Con., Mesa- 

 lia claibornensis Con., Turritella nasuta 

 Gabb, Turritella dumblei Harris n. sp. , 

 Belosepia ungula, Gabb 4 feet. 



4. Black laminated clay, enclosing Conus sau- 



ridens Con., Pleurotoma (Sarcula) gabbii 

 Con., PI. ehildreni, var. bilota Harris, PL 

 (Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb, PI. (Bor- 

 sonia) plenta Harris, Ostrea selheformis, 

 var. divaricata Lea, Pseudoliva vetusta 

 Con. var., Volutilithes petrosa Con., La- 

 tirus moorei Gabb, Venericardia planieosta 

 Lam. , Cytherea tomadonis Harris, Chryso- 

 domus enterogramma Gabb and Natica 

 arata Gabb 2 feet. 



5. Indurated green sand with Occulina, Turbi- 



nolia pharetra and Endopachys maclurei 

 corals and in addition to the fossils found 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



in No. 4 AncUla aneillops Heilpr., Bysso- 

 arca cuculloides Con., Pseudoliva vetusta 

 var. fusiformis Lea, Volutilithes precursor 

 Dall., Cornulina armigera Con., Corbula 

 aldrichi, var. smithvillensis Harris, C. tex- 

 ana Gabb, Dentalium minuti striatum Gabb, 

 Fusus mortoni, var. mortonopsis Gabb, 

 rhos texana Gabb, Distortio septe indent lata 

 Gabb, Solarium scrobiculatum Con., S. 

 (nullum, var. ineekanum Gabb, Pyrula 

 (Fusofictda) texana Aid., Mesalia claiborn- 

 ensis Con., Tarritella nasuta Gabb- 49 . . 1 foot. 



6. Laminated fossiliferous blue clay 10 feet. 



7. Alternate strata of yellowish sand and blue 



clay, clay 6 inches and sand from 4 to 8 



inches thick 4 " 



8. Brown sand • 1£ " 



The connection between these beds will be readily understood 

 when it is stated that at least 30 of the 38 species found at Camp- 

 bell's Creek are common to Wheelock and the exact stratigraphic 

 position of the two sections can be seen in a section on the Town 

 branch, south of the town of Wheelock and intermediate between 

 the Cedar Creek and Campbell's Creek sections. Out of some 36 

 species obtained 19 are common to Campbell's Creek, 26 to Cedar 

 Creek and the following 10 do not occur at either: Pleurotoma 

 ( Drillia') texana Gabb, PL (Drillia) pleboides Harris, PL {Mange- 1 

 I in) infans var. Mr., PL (Scobinella) erassiplicata Gabb, Turricula 

 (Conomitra) texana Harris, Terebra amazna Con., Periploma col- 

 lardi Harris n. sp., Clavilithes humerosa, var. texana, Harris, 

 Clavilithes (Papillina) dumosa, var. trapaquara Harris, and Cari- 

 cella subangulata, var. cherokeensis Harris. 50 

 The section shown at this place is : 



1. Black surface soil 1 to 3 feet. 



2. Dark-brown gypseous clay, base of the 



Yegua stage li " 



3. Brown fossiliferous sandstone and brown clay 



49 Harris Mss. 50 Harris Mss. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



interstratified and containing the above 



fossils 3 " 



4. Blue laminated clay in which no fossils were 



found, to bed of stream 2 " 



Small sections of a similar character occur on Elm Creek, near 

 Burckley Station and on the Wilson Reid Headright, both lying be- 

 tween Campbell's Creek and the Brazos River. 



Along the Brazos we have probably the most important and most 

 complete section of these beds. To the south we find them passing 

 beneath the Yegua clays about 500 yards south of the mouth of the 

 Little Brazos. Thence throughout a succession of bluffs we can 

 trace the Marine beds northward to their contact with the underlying 

 lignitic a short distance north of International Railway bridge, a 

 direct distance of twelve miles. The section showing the contact be- 

 tween the Yegua clays and the Marine beds has already been given, 

 and the next section, that on the Little Brazos, near the iron bridge, 

 on the Moseley's Ferry and Bryan road shows: 



1. Chocolate brown clayey soil, river deposits . 10 to 15 feet. 



2. Gravel 2 to 4 " 



3. Laminated unfossiliferous clay 4 " 



4. Pale blue unfossiliferous clay 1 to 3 " 



5. Thinly laminated blue to black colored clay 



containing Terebra houstonia, Harris, 

 Terebra texagyra var. Harris, Conns 

 sauridens Con., Pleurotoma ; Pleurotoma 

 (Surcula) gabbii Con., Levifusus trabea- 

 toides Harris, PL (Surcula) moorei, Gabb, 

 PL (Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb, PL 

 terebrceformis Mr., PL (Mangelia) in- 

 significa Heilpriu, PL (Drillia) texaeona 

 Harris, PL (Drillia) penrosei Harris, 

 Ancilla (Olivula) xtaminea Conrad, 

 Ancilla andllops Heilprin, Nucula 

 magnifica Con. , Leda opulenta Con. , 

 Pseudoliva vetusta var., P. vetusta var. fusi- 

 formis Con., Volutilithes pelrosa Con., 

 V. precursor Dall, Latirus moorei Gabb, 

 Tellina mooreana Gabb, Dentalium 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



minutistriatu'm var. dumblei Harris, n. 

 var. Venericardia planicosta Lam., Dis- 

 tortio septemdentata Gabb, Solarium 

 alveatum Con., S. vespertinum Gabb, Phos 

 texana Gabb, var. Chrysodomus parbrazana 

 Harris, n. sp., Natica arata Gabb, N. semi- 

 lunata var. janthinops Harris, Pyrula 

 (Fusoficula) texana Aid., Turritella nasuta 

 Gabb, Turritella dumblei Harris, n. sp. 51 



6. Fossiliferous iron ore 1 foot. 



7. Fossiliferous green clay containing most of 



the fossils found in No. 5 with Atys. 

 Bulimella kellogii Gabb, Pleurotoma 

 (Cochlespira) engonata, Con., PI. child- 

 reni Lea, var. bilota Harris, PI. retifera 

 PL (Mangelia) infans var. Mr., Can- 

 cillaria tortiplica Con., C. panonis var. 

 smithvillensis Harris, Byssoarca eueul- 

 loides Con., Turnicula polita Gabb, 

 Corbula alabamensis Lea, Cadulus 

 sub-coareuatus Gabb, Pyramidella pre- 

 exilis Con., var., Solarium, acutum var. 

 meeJcanum Harris, Meslia Claibornensis 

 Con., Terebra texagyran. sp. var. Harris. 52 



The next section is shown at Moseley's Ferry on the Brazos. This 

 is the section referred to by Dr. Ferdinand Roemur as being visited 

 by him in 1847 and which he characterized as "consisting of 

 alternate strata of brown ferruginous sandstones and of dark colored 

 plastic clays, both teeming with fossils." 22 The bluff here extends 

 along the river a distance of about 1,500 feet and is from 25 to 30 

 feet high. With the exception of the upper 15 feet of brown sand 

 it is fossiliferous throughout. The fossils are very well preserved, 

 exceedingly plentiful and easily obtained. The dip of the beds as 

 shown in this bluff is between 50 and 55 feet per mile, but it may be 

 said that throughout this region as well as other portions of the older 

 Eocene reliable dips are very hard to obtain. 



ftl Harris MSS. 



52 Am. J. of Sci. Vol. vi, Second series, 1848, p. 23. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Section at Moseley's Ferry, Brazos River : — 



1. Brownish yellow surface loam 15 feet. 



2. Thin stratum of fossiliferous iron ore in boulder 



form . .• e . . . . 6 inches. 



3. Blue laminated fossiliferous clay . 3 feet. 



4. Fossiliferous iron ore, running under the river 



about 100 yards below the ferry 2 " 



Nos. 2, 3 and 4 contain an extensive fauna, comprising Levifusus 

 trabeatoides Harris, n. sp., Conus sauridcns Con., in great numbers, 

 Pleurotoma (Sureula) gabbii Con., PL (Cochlespira) engonata Con., 

 PL (Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb, PI. terebriformis Mr., PI. 

 (Borsonia) plenta Harris, Ostrea sellceformis var. divaricata Lea, 

 Anomia ephippioides Gabb, Byssoarca cuculloides Lea, Pseudoliva 

 vetusta var. Volutilithes petrosa Con., Volutilithes precursor Dall., 

 Turricula polita Gabb, Latirus moorei Gabb, Corbula texana Gabb, 

 Dentalium minutistriatum Gabb, Dentalium minutistriatum var. 

 dumblei new variety, Venericardia planicosta Lam., Cytherea texacola 

 Harris, Cytherea tornadonis Harris, Chrysodomus enterogramma 

 Gabb, Phos texana Gabb, var., Distortio septemdcntata Gabb, Tuba 

 antiquata var., antiqua new var., Solarium acutum var. Meekanum 

 Gabb, Sigaretus deelivis Con., Mesalia, claibomensis Con., Turritella 

 nasuta Con., T. dumblei Harris, n. sp., Pyrula (Fusoficula) texana 

 Aid., and several corals. 53 



5. Laminated fossiliferous blue clay containing 



Conns sauridens Con., Pleurotoma (Sureula) 

 gabbii Con., PL (Cochlespira) engonata, 

 Con., PL (Borsonia) plenta Harris, PL 

 {Sureula) moorei var. Levifusus trabeatoides 

 Harris n. sp., Ancilla (Olimda) staminea 

 Con. , Pseudoliva vetusta var. , Volutilithes 

 petrosa Con. , Dentalium minidistriatum 

 Gabb, Venericardia planicosta Lam., Leda 

 opulenta Con., Cytherea texacola Harris, 

 Distortio septemdentata Gabb, Mesalia clai- 

 bornensis Con. , Turritella nasuta Fabb and 

 Belosepia ungula Gabb 6 feet, 



8 Numbers 2, :? and 4 are marked A in Mr. Harris' lists; No. 5, B; Nos. (!. 

 7 and 8, C; No. 9, I); No. 10, E; Nos. 11, 12 and 13. V. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



(3. Fossiliferous iron ore 2 feet. 



7. Altered fossiliferous green sand found tit 



north end of bluff . . . . 10 " 



8. Fossiliferous iron ore 2 " 



Nos. 6, 7 and 8 contain Conns sauridens Con., Pleurotoma (Sur- 

 cula) gabbii Con. , PI. (Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb, PL (Borsonia.) 

 plenta Harris, Levifusus trabeatoides Harris n. sp., Anomia ephip- 

 pioides Gabb, Pseudoliva vetusta Con. var. , Latirus moorei Gabb, 

 Venericardia planicosta Lara., DistoHio septemdentata Gabb, Tur- 

 ritetta dumblei Harris n. sp., Byssoarca cuculloides Con., Solarium 

 acutum, var. meekanvm Gabb. 



9. Green sand, dark green near ferry, but 



altering to a brown near north end, and 



merging into No. 7, measuring at ferry . 5 feet. 



This bed contains Conns sauridens Con., Pleurotoma (Surcula) 

 gabbii Con. , Aneilla ( Olivula) staminea Con., Ostrea sclhrformis, var. 

 divaricafa Lea, Anomia ephippioides Gabb, Pseudoliva vetusta Con., 

 var. ,P. vetusta, var. carinata Con., Pteropsis conradi Dana, Corbvla 

 texana Gabb, Venericardia planicosta Lain., Cytherea texqcola Harris, 

 Fusus niortoni, var. mortonopsis Gabb, Pltos texana Gabb, var. 

 Distortio septemdentata Gabb, Turritella nasuta Gabb, and Tenuiscola 

 trdpaquara Harris n. sp. , 51 Turbinolia pharetra Lea, Endopachys 

 maelurei Lea and other corals. 



10. Thinly laminated blue clay, changing into 



brown near top, and weathering to a light 

 blue toward the bottom; the upper brown 

 portion contains fossils similar to those in 

 No. 9, and the lower blue contains occa- 

 sional crystals of selenite 15 feet. 



11. Dark, almost black, fossiliferous sandy clay . 10 " 



12. Thin seam of black clayey sand, jointed and 



stained brown along joints and on outside, 



apparently unfossiliferous 1 foot. 



13. Same as No. 11, extending into river and 



forming a ledge in bottom of river ... 14 feet. 



Nos. 11 and 13 contain Pleurotoma childreni Lea, var. bilota 



Harris, Yoldia claibornensis Aid., Pseudoliva vetusta Con., var., 



54 Harris Mss. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Tellina mooreana Gabb, Venericardia planicosta Lara., Cytherea bas- 

 tropensis Harris, Turritella nasuta Gabb. 



The section next seen is at Niblett shoals, about a mile and a half 

 north of Mosley's Ferry. This section shows a decided change in 

 which Ave find from 12 to 14 feet of lignitic shales, sands and lignites 

 lying beneath in 20 feet of river loam. 



The next section is at Collard's Ferry, four miles north of Mosley's. 



This section has been described by Dr. Penrose as the Burleson 

 shell bluff', 55 there being no ferry at this place when visited by Pen- 

 rose. The section here given is essentially the same as given by him, 

 the only difference being the division of the upper twenty feet of 

 fossiliferous green sand. The section shows: 



1. Brown sand 10 feet, 



2. Indurated brown altered green sand ... 8 inches. 



3. Brownish-green altered green sand .... 4 to 6 feet. 



4. Grayish-green sand 10 to 15 feet. 



Nos. 3 and 4 of the section contain Pleurotoma (Surcula) gabbii 

 Con., PL children! Lea, var. bilota Harris, Cancellaria minuta 

 Harris, Olivella bom by/is, var. bwiesonia Harris n. var., Ostrea sel- 

 Iceformis, var. divaricata Lea, Plicatula filameniosa Conrad, Pecten 

 deshayesii Lea, Pinna sp., Byssoarca cuculloides Conrad, Leda opu- 

 lenta Con., Psendoliva vetusta Con., variety Voluti tithes petrosa, var. 

 indenta Con. , Lapparia pact it it, var. mooreana Gabb, Latirus moorei 

 Gabb, Corbula aldrichi, var. smithvillensis Harris, Dentaliiim minu- 

 tistriatum Gabb, D. minutistriatum, var. dum btei Harris n. var., Ven- 

 ericardia rotunda Lea, V. alticostata, var. perantiqua Con. , V. plani- 

 eosta Lam., Cytherea sp., C. texacola Harris, C. bastropensis Harris, 

 Clavilithes (Papillina) dumosa, var. trapaquara Harris, Fusus mortoni, 

 var. mortonopsis Gabb, Clavilithes penrosei Heilprin, C. humerosa, 

 var. texana Harris, Pleurotoma (Clathurella) fannce Harris n. sp.,#o- 

 larium serobieulatum Con., & alveatum Con., Natica semilunata, var. 

 janthinops Harris n. var., N. newtonensis Aid., Sigaretus declivis 

 Con., Pyrula (Fusofieula) penita Con. \&v.,Rimella texana Harris n. 

 sp. , R. texana, var. plana Harris n. var., Calyptrophorus velatus 

 Conrad, Turritella, sp., Belosepia ungukt Gabb, Trochita, sp. and 

 corals Turbinolia pharetra Lea. 



55 First Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas. 1889, p. 27. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



5. Dark blue laminated clay 6 to 8 feet 



6. Brown coal in river 4 feet 



This bluff extends up the river for nearly a mile and is from 



twenty to twenty-five feet high. The fossils are plentiful and well 

 preserved, although not so easily obtained as at Moseley's Ferry. 

 Pecten deshayesii is particularly plentiful, in some portions forming 

 solid masses from four to six inches thick for considerable distances. 



From here to the base of the beds at the railway bridge no fos- 

 sils have been obtained. 



The similarity of the structure of these beds and their contained 

 fauna from the Angelina River on the east to the Brazos on the west, 

 as well as the several isolated exposures lying in the counties east of 

 the former, mark a continuity extending clear across east Texas. 

 These beds are also well marked to the west of the Brazos and at 

 Smithville, on the Colorado, we find another great assemblage of 

 fossils, the greater number of which are identical with those found 

 on the Brazos and Wheelock. It may, however, be remarked that 

 so far as numbers of several of the specimens are concerned many 

 of the species show considerable differences. Thus, Conns 

 sauridens, although scarcely represented at any locality east of the 

 Trinity becomes very prolific at Moseley's Ferry, on the Brazos. 

 The same may also be said of Pecten deshayesii, which, though num- 

 erous at Collier's Ferry on that river is scarce in the east. On the 

 other hand Plicatula filamentosa and Spirorbis leptostoma are abund- 

 ant in Hurricane Bayou and at Alabama Bluff, although extremely 

 few of these have been obtained anywhere else. 



The correlation of these beds with the Lisbon stage of the Lower 

 Claiborne of the Alabama section appears to rest upon several 

 grounds. First, their stratigraphic position. In both States they 

 rest upon the lignitic. It is true the Buhrstone of the Alabama 

 section intervening between the Lisbon and Lignitic is absent in 

 Texas. Both comprise a series of highly fbssiliferous sandy and 

 clayey strata with glauconitic green sand and sands containing 

 streaks and nodules of calcareous matter, much of which is badly 

 weathered. Some of the beds are indurated into hard ledges of 

 brown or yellow sandstones, but brownish-greenish and bluish-green 

 soft sands and plastic clays form the great bulk of the deposits. The 

 presence of small beds and deposits of lignite and lignitic strata at 

 irregular intervals in the Texas beds marks the most prominent dif- 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



ference between these beds and Lower Claiborne of Alabama. The 

 presence of these lignitic strata in the Texas beds and their absence 

 in Alabama appears to show a difference in the conditions of deposi- 

 tion in the two localities. The lignitic is essentially a marsh pro- 

 duction, while the others belong to a coastal marine, or at least com- 

 paratively shallow sea, and the occurrence of the two in connection 

 with each other would lead to the inference that while a steady 

 marine condition of affairs continued in Alabama, the Texas regions 

 were subjected at irregular intervals to slight oscillations during 

 which the alternate conditions of marsh and sea deposition took 

 place and the presence of marine fossils in the lignitic beds appears 

 to show that these marshes were also subjected to marine influences. 

 The third reason for considering these beds as being synchronous 

 with the Lisbon beds and partly with the green sands of the lower 

 or lignitic beds is their contained fauna. Heilprin states that of 

 some one hundred and forty-five species determined by him about 

 sixty-one, or upwards of forty per cent, are also members of the 

 Claiborne fauna of Alabama, and a few others also occur in some of 

 the older deposits of Alabama. He considers these beds to belong- 

 to the Claibornian or typical Middle Eocene of the gulf slope. 56 

 After the examination of a much more extensive fauna obtained 

 from these beds Mr. Harris arrives at the conclusion that they be- 

 long to the Lisbon sub-stage of the Lower Claiborne. 51 Gabb also 

 arrives at the same conclusion in regard to the fossils found at 

 Wheelock and in Caldwell county, as he says ' ' they are all from a 

 deposit apparently synchronous with that at Claiborne, Alabama ; 

 one-third of the species found in the Texan beds being specifically 

 identical with those found in Alabama." 58 



The identity of the fossils found in the Yegua clays and Fayette 

 sands with those of the Marine beds appears to place these two stages 

 in the same age. 



These beds occupy a wide area of country lying immediately north 

 of the Yegua clays which form their southern boundary, and their 

 northern line may approximately be drawn from the Sabine River 

 a short distance north of Sabine Town in a generally northwestern 

 direction to the middle of the eastern line of Smith County. Turn- 



56 Proceeding of the Academy of Nat. Sci., Phila., Oct., 1890, p. 393. 



" Harris' Monograph of the Texas Tertiary Fossils MSS. 



58 Journal of the Acad, of Nat, Sci., Second Series, Vol. 4, p. 37(i. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



ing west the line continues in a west by south direction to near 

 Brownsboro, in Henderson, and thence south to the Trinity near the 

 south line of Anderson, and from there in a southwesterly direction 

 to the Brazos. Throughout the northeastern portion of the state 

 isolated hills covered by deposits of the same age occur' in some of 

 the counties. These, however, are usually unfossiliferous and of no 

 great extent. 59 The main body of the beds occupies a position in 

 the form of an inverted V, being widest at its apex, where a line 

 drawn across them from Bullard through Jacksonville, Rusk and 

 Alto measures over forty miles. From this line they gradually narrow 

 both to the west and east until on the Brazos the width does not ex- 

 ceed thirteen miles, and on the Sabine not more than seven or eight. 



The dip of these beds appears to be in an inverse ratio to the 

 width — that is to say it is greater on the Brazos than farther east, 

 and gradually becomes less as we approach the Sabine. While the 

 great or general dip of the whole of these deposits is toward the 

 gulf they have apparently been subjected to pressure from the south 

 or southeast as in many places slight waving or undulations occur 

 that give the beds the appearauce of dipping toward the northwest 

 in many places. These uudulatious are greater in the basal division 

 or " Mount Selman series," and pass into the underlying lignitic. A 

 very good type of this formation may be seen in Mount Selman it- 

 self as that mountain forms the bottom of a synclinal trough. They 

 do not appear in the Yegua clays or succeeding deposits, and whether 

 they affect the cretaceous beds or not is not known with any degree 

 of certainty, although it is generally assumed that they do to some 

 small extent. 



The topography of the country occupied by the Marine beds may 

 be described as an elevated plateau rising abruptly from the plane 

 of the surrounding beds to an average elevation of five hundred feet 

 above sea level, although some of the higher "mountains" reach 

 elevations of over seven hundred feet. This plateau is so intersected 

 by the different rivers flowing across it and their subsidiary drainage 

 channels that it presents a much broken surface showing as narrow- 

 topped, steep-sided, ridges in many places and wide flat-topped hills 

 in others. This variation is chiefly due to the covering of the differ- 

 ent localities. When sand forms the prevailing material the ridges 

 are narrow and the reverse is the rule where we find the iron ore 



59 Science, Vol. XXIII, No. 571, pp. 22-25. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



deposits overlying. Wide "bottoms" and "second bottoms" laud 

 fringe the margins of the main streams and many of the larger 

 creeks, and the whole flow at very low levels, often one hundred to 

 one hundred and fifty feet below the summit making deep V-shaped 

 channels where no bottom lands exist. In many places, particularly 

 in the sandy beds erosion is very rapid and many of the eastern 

 water courses have reached and are now flowing in the underlying 

 lignitic beds. 



Throughout the higher grounds the surface is generally covered 

 with light gray or yellow sand derived from the disintegration of the 

 underlying beds through leaching or otherwise, and in places a light 

 scattering deposit of yellow stained quartz gravel occurs. These 

 upper beds support a heavy cover of short leaved pine, oak and hickory 

 in portions of the region and wide areas in several of the counties 

 towards the middle of the district are covered with heavy beds of 

 laminated iron ore. These overlying sands and ores have been 

 ascribed to the quaternary by Mr. L. C. Johnson," but the occur- 

 rence of fossils of the same age as the underlying beds within them 

 place them in the Marine beds and consequently of Eocene age. 



Lignitic Beds. 



The northern boundary of the Marine beds marks the southern 

 limit of an another series of deposits totally differing from these in 

 every respect. In physical structure, materials and mode of deposi- 

 tion these lower beds have nothing in common with the overlying 

 Marine beds. They form the lowest portion of Penrose's Timber 

 Belt or Sabine river beds and are known as the Lignitic stage of 

 the Texas Eocene. These beds comprise a series of sands, clays and 

 lignites and have an aggregate thickness of over 1,200 feet. 



The sands are variously colored, being white, yellow, brown, red, 

 gray or blue, with occasional thin beds of black, often shading 

 into one another in endless variety, and, with the exception of the 

 dark blue or black and occasionally white beds, present no uniform- 

 ity of coloration for any distance. In structure they are mostly 

 coarse-grained with irregular deposits of fine-grained silty sand, 

 laminated or thinly stratified, massive, cross-bedded and frequently 

 interlaminated with clay. 



The clays occur interstratified and interlaminated, or as irregular 



60 Iron Ores of East Texas and Northern Louisiana, L. C. Johnson, p. 25. 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



deposits, with the sands, and in such positions are usually laminated. 

 Massive and stratified beds also occur in many portions of the area, 

 sometimes nearly free from sand, but the greater portion occur as 

 sandy or micaceous clays. Plastic potter's clay and refractory clays 

 occur in abundance. In color they are generally dark blue, gray 

 and black, although deposits of red, brown and yellow clay occur 

 and frequently thin beds of white clay are found among the upper 

 members of the series. 



The lignites belonging to this stage and from which these beds 

 derive their name occur widely spread throughout the whole area ; 

 they lie in beds of varying thicknesses, from two to four feet being 

 most common, although six, nine and ten feet deposits are by no 

 means of rare occurrence. Beds of even greater thickness have 

 been reported as being found in well-borings. The actual number 

 of lignite beds existing in these deposits is not known. Six have 

 been recorded as underlying each other at distances varying from 

 two to one hundred and twenty feet apart. 



Silicious and calcareous sandstones and limestones occur at dif- 

 ferent portions of the area occupied by these beds, but the glauconitie 

 greensand marls so conspicuous in the Alabama lignitic are every- 

 where absent from the Texas beds. 



The lignitic beds have been divided into two divisions — an upper 

 and lower — distinguished chiefly by their structure and composition. 

 The upper or Queen City beds, so called from their typical develop- 

 ment near that place in Cass county, comprise a series of laminated 

 or thinly stratified white and red sands and sandy clays frequently 

 merging into one another and forming a mottled sandy clay or 

 clayey sand. The lamime generally do not exceed one-fourth to 

 half inch but the white sandy clay frequently expands to six or more 

 feet filling pockets or depressions in the wavy laminated deposits. 

 In this pocket-form these clays become less sandy and more alumi- 

 nous than when occurring in thin scams. The section at Queen 

 City shows these beds to have a thickness of 65 feet. This section 



is: 01 



1. Gravelly ore, and broken pieces of nodular ore, 



sandstone and sand 5 feet. 



2. Laminated ore and sand in thin strata .... 4 " 



61 Second Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas 1890, p. 72. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



3. Stratified white and red sand with white sandy 



clay (Queen City beds) 65 feet. 



4. Brown sand and clay 25 " 



5. Lignite 1J " 



These beds have never been outlined but are known to occur 



at various localities in Cass county. In Marion county, near 

 Jefferson, and in Harrison county these beds appear at various places 

 immediately underlying the yellowish brown sandstone here forming 

 the base of the Marine beds. The same beds are also found at 

 Willow Switch near Longview and Gladewater in Gregg Co.,, and 

 also occur near Tyler in Smith county and at Wilkins' Mill in Up- 

 shur Co. 



These beds are uufossiliferous throughout. Not the slightest 

 trace of a fossil of any kind has ever been found in them and they 

 do not carry lignite. They are, however, readily recognized, and 

 whenever present, are conspicuous from their clear, distinct, banded 

 appearance lying between the brown and brownish-yellow beds 

 above and below them. They have been correlated with the Carrizo 

 sandstones of the Tertiary west of the Brazos. (i ~ 



The lower lignitic deposits are very different from the Queen City 

 beds in many respects. These contain the dark blue, gray, black, 

 brown and yellow clays and sands, sandstones and lignites so 

 characteristic of the lignite group everywhere, and form by far the 

 most extensive deposits belonging to this stage of the Eocene. 



In Bowie county, in the extreme northeastern portion of the state, 

 lignitic clays and lignites occur ; in Cass county the same deposits 

 show the typical structure at many places. A section at the Alamo 

 mine, on Sulphur Fork, shows : 



1. Sand and clay 26 feet. 



2. Gray clay . 23 " 



3. Lignite 1 ft. 8 inches. 



4. Gray sand 2 feet. 



5. Hard slaty clay 9 " 



6. Lignite 4 feet -f 



lu Marion county the enormous thickness of these beds is seen in 



the artesian boring made for water at Jefferson. Here the drill 

 passed through alternate strata of sands, clays and lignites to a depth 



62 Dumble, Journal of Geology, Sept., 1894. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



of 802 feet, but without reaching their base. Three heavy beds of lig- 

 nite aud a number of smaller ones are said to have been passed through 

 in the boring. In Harrison and southward through Panola, Shelby 

 and eastern San Augustine we find these deposits underlying the 

 remuantal Marine beds and passing under the main body of these at 

 many places. Everywhere throughout the Sabine Valley sections 

 showing lignites may be seeu. A section at Robertson's ford shows: 



1. Gray sand 1 foot. 



2. Mottled brown, blue and yellow clay 45 feet. 



3. Lignite 6 " 



4. Dark blue sandy clay to water 3 " 



Near Carter's Ferry, on the same river, we find a deposit of lignite 

 six feet thick containing trunks of trees from sixteen to twenty feet 

 in length aud eighteen to twenty inches in diameter, partly silicified 

 and partly liguitized. These are exposed at low water. Near 

 Logausport a section of the river bluff is reported to give : iy: ' 



1. Gray sandy soil 2 feet. 



2. Mottled yellow and gray clay 10 " 



3. Yellow and blue clay 4 " 



4. Nodular iron ore, nonconformable 1 foot. 



5. Sandy clay 3 feet. 



6. Iron sandstone, irregular 1 foot. 



7. Liguitic shales to water 2 feet. 



Coming westward, the same liguitic sands and clays with more or 



less lignite occur in Smith, Wood, Henderson, Freestone, Limestone, 

 Leon and Robertson counties. Sections typical of the whole region 

 can be obtained almost anywhere. The section of these beds as 

 shown on the Brazos gives : 



I. Calvert Bluff Section : — 



-£ 1. Brown loamy clay 4 feet. 



§ 2. Light brown sand 7 " 



S 3. Brown sand and gravel H " 



4. Gray sand \ to 3 " 



5. Brown coal 12 " 



6. Dark blue clay '. 3 " 



63 Second Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1890, p. 252. 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



8. Dark blue clay same as No. 6 6 feet. 



9. Brown coal 3 to 4 " 



10. Dark grayish blue sand 15 " 



o 11. Thiii stratum of calcareous sandstone ... I foot. 



"3 12. Dark gray sand similar to No. 10 2 feet. 



^ 13. Brown coal, poor quality 2 to 6 inches. 



14. Dark gray sand similar to No. 10 8 feet. 



15. Gray calcareous sandstone 1 foot. 



16. Dark bluish gray sand with iron pyrites . . 8 feet. 



17. Boulders of clay ironstone and gray calcareous 



sandstones with irony nodules and thin seams 

 of ferruginous sandstones with dicotyledo- 

 nous leaves 2 feet. 



18. Gray sandstone I2 " 



19. Laminated bluish gray sand to water .... 2 '' 



A little over a mile farther up the river we find section II at Bee 

 shoals showing the following beds belonging to the lignitic. Nos. 1, 

 2 and 3 of the section are omitted as they belong to the more recent 

 and river alluvium : 



II. Section at Bee Shoals : — 



4. Black or dark blue clay 5 feet. 



5. Broken seams of brown coal >} to 3 " 



6. Black clay same as No. 4 5 " 



7. Dark bluish-gray sandstone weathering on out- 



side to a brown containing broken plant 



remains 1 ? to 6 feet. 



8. Clay similar to Nos. 4 and 6 4 " 



9. Thin stratum of gray calcareous sandstone . 4 to 6 inches. 



10. Gray sand laminated and containing thin 



layers of dark clay 10 feet. 



11. Rounded waterworn boulders with calcite 



streaks '1 foot. 



12. Gray sand with pyrites to 5 feet. 



From this point to the base of the lignitic beds near the mouth of 



Pond Creek the' beds comprise a series of gray sands interstratified 

 with gray sandstones. These sands and sandstones cannot be less 

 than 300 feet in thickness. A section at Gibson's gin near Calvert 

 shows them to be at least 265 feet. The following is the section : 




i ( 



1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



1. Surface soil and gray and brown sand ... 25 feet. 



2. Alternate strata of blue clay and calcareous 



sandstone 42 " 



3. Brown coal 2 " 



4. Bluisb-gray sand, blue clay and calcareous 



sandstones 46 " 



5. Brown coal 1$ " 



6. Bluish gray sand 23 s" 



7. Brown coal 5 " 



8. Blue sands and sandstones 55 feet. 



9. Brown coal 2 " 



10. Red clay 8 " 



11. Bluish-gray calcareous sandstones and blue 



clay 22 " 



12. Brown coal 2 " 



13. Blue sand 76 



14. Brown coal 10 



15. Blue sand with thin seams of sandstone . . 265 " 



A well at Franklin, the county seat of Robertson, obtains its water 

 supply from these beds and is 1,208 feet deep. This boring is wholly 

 in lignitic strata and chiefly in the lower division. 



While there is no doubt whatever as to the stratigraphic position 

 of the Texas Lignitic corresponding closely to that of the Lignitic of 

 Alabama, both occupying positions beneath the Lower Claiborne 

 and overlying tbe uppermost beds of the Cretaceous, there are many 

 conditions of dissimilarity between them that mark the deposition of 

 each to have been associated with and made under widely different 

 circumstances. Nor do these Texas beds altogether correspond with 

 the Lignitic of Mississippi, Arkansas or Louisiana, although in the 

 case of the two last named States the beds found in the southwestern 

 portion of Arkansas and in the northwestern corner of Louisiana are 

 similar in every respect to those of that portion of Texas adjoining 

 them. 



In Alabama the greater portion of this sub-division is made up of 

 laminated clays and laminated and cross-bedded sands of a prevailing 

 gray color, except immediately below the Buhrstoue, where for 200 

 feet or more they are of dark brown, often purplish colors. With 

 the above mentioned laminated clays and sands are interstratified 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



several beds of lignite and several beds bolding marine fossils and 

 usually characterized by the presence of glauconite or greensaud. 64 



According to Smith and Johnson the lignites appear to be more 

 numerous and thicker toward the west, while eastward of the 

 Alabama River they become, as a rule, inconspicuous and possess no 

 very well marked characters by which they may be distinguished 

 from one another. On the other hand the Marine beds retain their 

 characteristic features and peculiar association of fossils, are easily 

 recognizable and may be followed with the greatest ease. 



In Mississippi the Lignitic comprises a series of lignitiferous strata 

 with iuterstratified beds of brown, yellow and gray sands and clays 

 containing marine fossils and plant remains. 00 



These beds also occur in Southern Arkansas at the Ouachita Coal- 

 mining Company's mines at Lester, about seven miles north of 

 Camden. Here the section shows heavy beds of dark blue clay 

 enclosing a deposit of lignite from 6 to 10 feet thick. The higher 

 hills in this neighborhood are capped with the red and white sands 

 and clays typical of the Queen City beds of Texas, and as already 

 stated the southwestern portion of Miller county belongs geologically 

 to the Texas beds. 



Hill describes the basal or lignitic strata of southwestern Arkansas 

 under the local names of the Camden series and Cleveland county 

 red lands. The former, he says, "is an extensive shallow water, 

 marine formation of stratified, micaceous, non-indurated alternating 

 laminae of sands and clay shales, sandy shales, thin sandstones 

 (quartzites), etc.," 66 and considers them a continuation of similar 

 stratigraphic conditions from other counties of Louisiana, Arkansas 

 and Texas from the southward. His Cleveland "red lands" consti- 

 tute a fossiliferous horizon at or near the top of the Camden series, 

 and consists of the characteristic sediments of that series, but is 

 accompanied by extensive deposits of marine shells and greensaud,'" 

 and are identical with the iron bearing red lands of Rusk, Cherokee 

 and other counties in northeast Texas. 



A personal examination of much of the Tertiary areas of Arkan- 

 sas leads me to very different conclusions from those drawn by Prof. 



,;i Bull. U. 8. (!. 8., 43, p. 39. 

 65 Hull. U. S. G. S., 83. p. 67. 



Vol. II. Ami. Rep. Geol. Survey of Ark., 1888, p. 49. 

 " 7 Geol. Survey of Ark., Vol. II. ,,(' 1888, p. 58. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



Hill. The basal Tertiary of the region while in its principal 

 feature? undoubtedly lignitic and in places correspond to the 

 Texas beds, his Camden series is only partially so, a portion belong- 

 ing to the middle Tertiary or Claiborne and a still greater portion 

 being of much younger age. At the base of this series Prof. Hill 

 has also included as Tertiary some beds of cretaceous deposits. His 

 Cleveland "red lands" are, according to Harris, of Claiborne and 

 Jackson age. fis It may also be stated that in some parts of Arkan- 

 sas the Eocene is represented by a still lower phase than the Lignitic. 



In Louisiana these beds are represented in the northwestern por- 

 tion of the State. They have been described by Hilgard 69 and Hop- 

 kins 70 as the Mansfield group and recently by Dr. Otto Lerch as the 

 Lignitic. 71 These beds are, in their main characteristic's, similar to 

 the lignitic of Texas and along the State line in Cass and Harrison 

 Counties in Texas and Caddo Parish in Louisiana I have found them 

 passing in unbroken continuity. 



It would thus appear that the lignitic beds of East Texas can be 

 directly connected with those of almost the whole of the Gulf States. 

 A number of variations in structure undoubtedly occur between 

 them and the corresponding beds of Alabama and Mississippi, where 

 heavy beds of green sand, carrying numerous fossils form no incon- 

 siderable portion of the series, and where the lignites are few and 

 poorly developed. In Texas the lignites are very extensively repre- 

 sented by many beds of different thickness and make up a very fair 

 proportion of the aggregate thickness of the lignitic stage and no 

 trace of a single deposit of glauconite or green sand occurs any- 

 where. In fact, with the exception of petrified or silicified wood a 

 few dicotyledonous leaves and stems of plants, all much broken, the 

 entire series of the Texas Lignitic is wholly unfossiliferous. 



If we follow Mr. Harris' division 72 and restrict the Alabama lig- 

 nite to the first 600 feet of the beds considered by Smith and John- 

 son as belonging to that stage, we find constantly recurring changes 

 from periods of low marshy coastal flats, during which the extensive 

 beds of lignitic clays and shales and sands were laid down to periods 

 in which the abundant fauna now buried in the glauconitic fossilifer- 



<w Geol. Survey of Ark.. Vol. II of 1892, pp. 04-110. 



69 Am? J. of Sci., Vol. XL VIII, No. 144, Nov., 1869, p. 340. 



7 " First Annual Report Geol. Survey of La., 1870, p. 83. 



71 Geol. and Agr. of North Louisiana. La. Exp. Sta. Bull., 1892, p. 9. 



72 Am. J. Sci., Vol. XLVII, April, 1894, p. 304. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



ous green sands found suitable conditions of life. Although these 

 changes were such as to build up very heavy deposits of each class, 

 it would appear as if none of them continued long enough to enable 

 the contained plant life to accumulate a sufficiently large growth to 

 form anything beyond the merest trace of lignite. 



During the whole of this period only some seven or eight seams of 

 lignite have been laid down, and even these, with the exception of 

 one, do not exceed two feet. In the first 200 feet, including the 

 whole of the Hatchetigbee section and uppermost 30 feet of the 

 Woods Bluff, no lignite occurs. Below this we have some 25 

 feet with thin beds. Of the 140 feet forming the Bells Landing 

 stage only five feet of lignite are found, and these occur in three 

 seams, the upper one of which is 2 feet thick and lies some 75 or SO 

 feet above the other two, which are only from 6 to 8 feet apart. The 

 next lower or Nanafalia section shows 200 feet of gray sandy clays 

 and cross bedded sand and glauconitic sands and clays with green 

 sands containing Gryphcea thirscE. About ten feet above the base, a 

 hed of lignite from 4 to 7 feet thick occurs and this is the only lignite 

 seen in that series. 



Throughout the Texas areas the lignite beds everywhere form 

 conspicuous objects in this horizon, although no attempts have yet 

 heen made to correlate them with each other. 



These beds apparently represent a period when the whole coast 

 was made up of swamps, lagoons and bayous, the extent of which 

 will be best understood when we say that these deposits cover an 

 area extending nearly 170 miles from north to south and 200 miles 

 from east to west within the limits of East Texas alone. A rank 

 vegetation grew on the marshy portions, and the rivers of the time 

 having no fixed channels, distributed their waters through the 

 lagoons and bayous, and into them and over the low islands carried 

 their burdens of debris during periods of flood. With this debris 

 came soft clay, sand, branches, limbs and trunks of trees, all of 

 which went to swell the accumulations already gathering and aid in 

 the formation of the lignites and associated beds of clay and sand. 

 It is more than probable, however, that the lignites were largely 

 formed from marine vegetation which grew where these deposits are 

 now found. The Texas lignites are remarkably free from clay, and 

 although trunks of trees, both in a lignitized and silicified form occur 

 in them they are by no means numerous and are exceedingly few 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



when compared with the enormous amount of such wood found in 

 the overlying sands. 7 '' 



With the exception of a narrow strip of country lying to the west 

 of a line drawn southward from the cretaceous border near Cooper, 

 in Delta County, and passing a few miles to the west of Sulphur 

 Springs, to the east of Emory, four miles east of Wells Point, be- 

 tween Mexia and Tehuacana and crossing the Brazos about a mile 

 north of the Milam Falls County line, the lignitic deposits occupy 

 the whole territory lying between the northern boundary of the 

 Marine beds and the southern line of the Cretaceous. Along the 

 eastern border of the State this area has a width of almost 160 

 miles but rapidly narrows in coming west. A line drawn across 

 these beds through Tyler, Mineola and Sulphur Springs, to the cre- 

 taceous border on the Sabine, near the south side of Delta County, 

 is only 75 miles and their exposure on the Brazos does not exceed 16 

 miles. 



Along the western side, these beds rest upon the basal beds of the 

 Texas Eocene, to the north they overlie and come in direct contact with 

 the cretaceous marls and on the east, as already stated, they pass into 

 Arkansas and Louisiana. To the south they are overlaid by the 

 Marine beds and altogether cover an area equal to at least one-third 

 of the whole Eocene tertiary in the State. 



The dip of these beds appears to be gently towards the southeast, 

 but the undulations referred to in the Marine beds also occur in the 

 lignitic, making many instances of apparent return or northwesterly 

 dips, and thereby making an effort to arrive at the actual thickness 

 of the beds through the measurement of the dip difficult and of only 

 doubtful accuracy. Fortunately, however, many deep borings have 

 been made at various points and from these we are enabled' to obtain 

 a fairly accurate measurement of the thickness. 



The topography of the country is simple. In the east the higher 

 elevations are those points capped by the lower beds of the overlying 

 Marine and which give the country a somewhat broken appearace. 

 Near the centre and westward the country becomes of a more uni- 

 form level. It is mostly covered with heavy growths of pine and 

 oak with mesquite bushes along the Brazos and through Robertson 



73 For connection between these beds and the Cretaceous see Science, Vol. 

 XXII, No. 565, Dec. 1st, 1893, p. 300. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



County. Prairie conditions prevail over some areas but only to an 

 inconsiderable extent. 



Basal Beds or Wills Point Clays. 



These beds form the lowest deposits of Eocene age in Texas and 

 rest directly upon the marls of the Cretaceous. They correspond in 

 time with the Mathews Landing, Black Bluff and Midway sections 

 of the Alabama lignitic and Harris' Midway stage of the lower 

 Eocene. 



In Texas these beds are represented by a series of yellowish brown, 

 brown and bluish gray sands, yellow and blue laminated clays and 

 massive clays containing numerous boulders of silicious limestone 

 and two beds of white fossiliferous limestone. The yellowish brown 

 sand contains numerous boulders of calcareous sandstones and lime- 

 stone veined and streaked with calcite and enclosing occasional fossils 

 and the sands themselves also carry a few broken shells. White, 

 limy concretions and crystals of selenite are also numerous in some 

 of the clays. 



These beds have an aggregate thickness of about 260 feet and they 

 occupy a narrow strip of country lying between the Lignitic on the east 

 and the Cretaceous areas on the west. Their greatest width does not 

 exceed some 13 miles in the vicinity of Wills Point and gradually 

 narrowing to a point at each end. The greatest length from north 

 to south does not exceed 170 miles. 



The detailed information regarding these beds is meagre from the 

 circumstances attending their condition and the time spent in making 

 examinations. Their immediate contact with the overlying lignitic 

 deposits has nowhere been seen. Near Wills Point the upper sands 

 of the lower lignitic overlap for more than a mile and a half and on 

 the Brazos the contact is obscured by w T ide spreading deposits of river 

 alluvium and plistocene clays. The contact between the basal beds 

 and the Cretaceous marls appears about four miles west of Elmo. 

 In this region the dark blue laminated clays of the lowest Eocene 

 rests upon the bluish weathering yellow marls of the Cretaceous 

 Ponderosa beds. The section at this point shows : 



1. Brownish gray sands containing boulders of 

 limestone with thin seams of calcite and 

 occasional broken shells 25 feet. 




1895. ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



2. Thinly laminated dark blue clays with broken 



bivalve shells in the upper division and 

 occasional nodules of limestone 30 " 



3. Yellow Ponderosa marls forming the highest 



Cretaceous bed at this place — 



The contact between these beds and the underlying Cretaceous as 

 seen in the Brazos river section presents a section of: 



1. River alluvium 4 feet. 



2. Gravel 1 foot. 



3. Blue clay and sand breaking into nodules and 



conchoidal pieces, weathering into a grayish 

 yellow and containing Cucullcea macrodonta 

 Whitf. , Yoldla eborea Conrad, Veneri- 

 cardia alticosta Con., var. , Calyptrophorus 

 retains Con., Cerithium ap.,iGrassatella sp., 

 Apporhxm gracilis Aid., and Ostrea 

 puktsJcensia Harris 74 5 feet. 



4. Transitional blue clay 1 foot. 



5. Massive blue clay with Baculites and other 



Cretaceous fossils 14 feet. 



About 90 feet above the base as seen at Elmo in Kaufman county 

 there are two beds of limestone, the upper one measuring eight feet 

 and the lower ten feet in thickness. These are separated by two feet 

 of brown sand. These limestones are highly fossiliferous containing 

 such fossils as Ououlkea macrodonta Whitf., Vevericardia alticosta 

 Con., var., Venericardin planicosta Lam., Grassatella (Midway sp.,) 

 Cytherea sp., Pyrula (Fnsoficnht) var. Pseadolira unicarinata Aid., 

 Pleurotoma (JPleurotomella) anacona Harris, n. sp. , Ostrea palash- 

 ensis Harris and Turritella sp. 



These two beds are seen about a mile north of Elmo in the follow- 

 ing section : 



1. White fossiliferous limestone 8 feet. 



2. Brown sand 2 " 



3. Limestone same as No. 1 10" 



4. Dark bluish gray sand 30 " 



At Rocky Cedar only the upper bed is seen and is here 20 feet 

 thick. 



" Harris MSS. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Whether these limestones form a connected bed throughout the 

 whole length of the area is not known. They occur about twelve 

 miles further south at Kemp where they contain Cucullcea macro- 

 donta Whitf, Cytherea sp., Turritella alabamensis var. prealaba 

 Con., and Mesalia alabamensis Whitf. 75 



In the vicinity of Tehuacana, Limestone county, these limestone 

 beds again make their appearance with an increased thickness. Here 

 the beds form the surface over considerable areas and are underlaid 

 by a brownish gray sand presenting the following section : 



1. Whitish to grayish white limestone containing 



Ostrea alabamensis Lea., Vol uti tithes sp., 

 Venericardia, planicosta Lam., Cytherea sp. , 

 Mesalia alabamensis var. medvia n. v. 

 Harris, Turritella multilira Whitf, and 

 T. alabamensis var 40 feet. 



2. Brownish gray sand changing to a brown near 



base — 



3. Black shaly clay (Cretaceous) — 



These limestones are again seen at Hornhill in the same county 

 where they carry practically the same fauna and the Brazos section 

 is seen in the following : 



(a.) Section at Oyster Bluff (Penrose), Two Miles Above Mouth of 

 Pond Creek : — 



1. River alluvium 4 feet. 



2. Conglomerate 2 " 



3. Coarse conglomerate with boulders l£to2 " 



4. Thinly stratified yellowish gray clay, sand and 



blue clay with occasional rounded boulders 



of calcareous sandstone 10 " 



5. Blue laminated clay, fossiliferous 4 " 



6. Thin bed of nodules and hard fossiliferous lime- 



stone 1 foot. 



7. Thinly laminated gray clay and sand .... 3 feet. 



8. Bluish gray sand 1 foot. 



9. Thinly laminated dark blue clay and sand . . 3 feet. 

 10. Dark blue laminated and fossiliferous sand . . 2 " 



The fauna belonging to this section comprise Ostrea prcecomjpressiros- 



75 Harris MSS. 




1895.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



tra Har., Cytherea, Natica, Cerithium whitfieldi Heilprin, Pseudoliva 

 ostrarupis Harris, n. sp. P. ostrarupis Harris, n. var., iusus 

 ostrarupis, Harris, n. sp., Pleurotoma (Pleurotomella) anaeona 

 Harris n. sp., PI. (Surcula) ostrarupis Harris n. sp., Cerithium 

 penrosei Harris, n. sp. , Tellina (Leda) milamensis Harris large variety, 

 n. sp., and Leda milamensis Harris. 76 These fossils occur almost 

 altogether in the beds of blue clay. 



The section shown at this place is probably the uppermost beds 

 belonging to the Basal clays and No. 4 may represent a transition 

 bed between these and the overlying lignitic, as it partakes of some 

 of the character of both stages. The nearest known lignitic beds in 

 the river section are at the mouth of Pond Creek, two miles below, 

 but occur away from the river on both sides much nearer than this, 

 although no actual contact can be seen : 



'6 J 



(b. ) Section on C. Cribbs League, Between Two and Three Miles 

 Above (a.) : — 



1. Brown sand and gravel 2 feet. 



2. Yellow clay 4 



3. Ledge of silicious limestone, fossiliferous . . 2 



4. Yellow clay same as No. 2 . * 5 



5. Limestone same as No. 3 2 " 



6. Dark blue laminated clay showing lines of 



lamination on weathering 30 to 35 " 



< < 



1 1 



■&■ 



The fossils obtained from this locality embrace Cucullaia macro- 

 donta Whitf. , Yoldia chorea Conrad, Volutilithes rugata Conrad, 

 Venericardia altieosta var. Conrad, Cakjptrophorus velatus Conrad, 

 Nucula magnifica Conrad, Crassatella kennedyi Harris, n. sp., Fvsus 

 odrarupis Harris, n. sp., Dentalium sp., Turritella mortoni Conrad, 

 var., Ostrea pulashensis Harris, and Lucina. 1 " These fossils mostly 

 occur in the limestone ledges which here, although much altered in 

 texture and appearance, evidently represent the two beds found at 

 Elmo and on Rocky Cedar. The limestones here and at the next 

 section above are soft and easily broken, of a brownish gray appear- 

 ance on the outside but are grayish blue in the interior. They have 

 a tendency to break up and assume a nodular form. 



™ Harris MSS. 71 Harris MSS. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Half a mile below the contact of the Cretaceous and at the foot of 

 Blue Shoals we have another section : 



(c.) Section at foot of Blue Shoals Half a Mile Below Tertiary — 

 Cretaceous Contact on Brazos River : — 



1. Brown sand river alluvium 10 feet. 



2. Blue indurated clay with boulders of limestone 



containing Ostrea pulaskensis Harris, and 



other fossils 5 " 



3. Laminated blue almost black fossiliferous clay 



with thin seam of indurated clay on top . . 4 " + 



The fossils obtained here with the addition of Turritella 

 alabamensis Whitf, Pecten alabamensis Aldr. , and a species of 

 Cerithium are the same as those occurring in (b.) a few miles down 

 the river and most of them occur at the Tertiary-Cretaceous contact 

 half a mile farther up. These have already been shown. 



These beds as shown in the river section undulate to such a degree 

 that many of them dip sharply and pass beneath the river level only 

 to rise again in some small exposures farther down. These undula- 

 tions are not uniform in their length as the usual condition appears 

 to be a long gentle slope, succeeded by a sharply abrupt descent 

 which is repi'esented in a much slower rise where the same beds 

 appear again. On this account we have two different rates of dip 

 towards the southeast with one towards the northwest, although the 

 whole series has a gentle slope or lowering towards the southeast; 

 That is, the farther we go up the river the longer and higher the 

 folds become. 



These beds have been traced westward in Falls and Milam counties 

 for some distance by Messrs. Taff and Stone of the Texas Geological 

 Survey. They do not, however, appear to occur anywhere along the 

 Cretaceous border east of Hopkins county. At least they are not 

 known in that region nor do they appear to be known anywhere east 

 as far as Rockport near Malvern and near Alexander Station on the 

 St. Louis and Iron Mountain Railroad in Arkansas, where a small 

 outcrop of the limestone belonging to them appears carrying Osbrea 

 I'u/askensis Harris, and some other fossils of the same age. 



Whether these beds ever formed a continuous belt along the 

 cretaceous border through this region and that this belt has long 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 149 



since been eroded arid carried off, or whether they are covered up by 

 the overlapping of the later beds we have as yet no evidence to offer, 

 but if they occupy the same relative position here as in the west, then 

 the presumption is that they never existed and that they occupy a 

 very minor position in the Tertiary scale and were only laid down 

 in isolated positions, and, while differing materially from the great 

 body of the lignitic, should be considered as the equivalent in time at 

 least, to a portion of the basal deposits of that stage. No lignites 

 occur in them and they appear to be at least partly of marine origin. 



Mr. Harris bus classed the Matthews Landing marls, Black Bluff 

 clays aud Midway clay and Limestone of the Alabama Lignitic 

 under the single title 01 " Midway." In this the Texas Survey has 

 followed Mr. Harris and whether the Texas beds will admit of the 

 threefold division made in Alabama, or, if so, where the lines of 

 separation are to be drawn our present information will not allow a 

 definite settlement of the question. As it appears at present these 

 beds can be correlated only with the last two, Black Bluff and 

 Midway. The clays and limestones with their contained fossils as 

 found on the Brazos and in the neighborhood of Elmo and Wills 

 Point correspond closely to these divisions but whether the gray 

 sands and sandy clays with their boulders of calcareous sandstones 

 can be correlated with the Mathews Landing, the proof is at present 

 deficient. 



These beds, unlike the lignitic, cannot be traced continuously 

 across the intervening States. They are not continuous in Texas 

 and only appear as isolated deposits of generally small extent in 

 Arkansas, and Smith seems to think the " Flatwood " in Mississippi 

 belong to the same age. 



The country occupied by the Basal beds in Texas is generally 

 undulating, and prairie-like conditions prevail throughout the 

 northern portion. Towards the south the prairies are broken by 

 growths of dwarf mesquite which is fast covering the whole area. 



r r 



Resume of History. 



The close of the Cretaceous in the East Texas region found the 

 physiographic conditions of the coast line much the same as we find 

 them along the present shore. The coastal plain comprised a series 

 of clays in places, giving place to sauds in others. Nowhere were 

 any of the harder limestones of the upper cretaceous seen. This 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



cretaceous shore line undoubtedly stood at a slightly higher elevation 

 and extended many miles to the southward of where we now find its 

 outcroppings. The "islands" or isolated patches of beds belonging 

 to that age, found in the salines of Smith, Vanzandt and Anderson 

 Counties then formed an integral portion of the uppermost cretace- 

 ous beds. In front of this line and extending from 75 to 100 miles 

 still farther south and seaward, there was a subcoastal plain or sub- 

 merged plateau lying at no great depth below the waters of the gulf 

 and probably more or less subject to exposure at low tide. 



With the exception of the Brazos and Trinity Rivers no large 

 streams broke the coast line but numerous smaller water courses, cor- 

 responding to such streams as the Angelina, Nelus, San Jacinto and 

 others, in times of freshets, poured their torrents of muddy debris- 

 laden waters into the shallow sea, covered the subcoastal plain with 

 a varied assortment of sand, mud, leaves, branches and trunks of 

 trees and quantities of other vegetation and probably animal remains, 

 and in periods of dry weather dwindled down to shallow 7 pools and 

 sluggish bayous in which their waters scarcely moved. 



Although the land stood higher than at present this was essentially 

 a period of subsidence and denudation. So far as we can see, the 

 currents must have set in from the southwest and the waters along 

 the western side of the tertiary areas were deeper and stronger than 

 those along the northern coast. A deep channel from 15 to 20 miles 

 wide appears to have been excavated along the eastern cretaceous 

 shore, cutting off the cretaceous islands now found, and in place of 

 the deposits removed, left behind the 260 feet of laminated clays, 

 sands and limestones now known as the "Wills Point" or "Basal 

 Beds." 



The presence of this channel and the subsequent deposition of 

 these basal beds is indicated by the existence of the same character oi' 

 deposit showing a return, or northwestern dip at several points along 

 the eastern side of the channel. This is clearly shown at Grand 

 Saline, in Kaufman and in Anderson County. 



The materials forming the new deposits were largely derived from 

 the destruction of the old. This is shown in the chemical composi- 

 tion of the two 78 and besides the new or basal Eocene sands^contain 

 many rounded boulders of limestone containing cretaceous fossils. 



7 " Science, Vol. XXII, No. 565, Dec. 1st., 1893, pp. 2<J7-300. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



The sea then had free access to this portion of the shore, at least, 

 and the clear marine water meeting- the mud-laden fresh water of 

 creeks and rivers caused the latter to drop their burdens with the 

 result of a deposition of a great depth of laminated clays and sands,™ 

 Marine and fresh, or brackish water conditions alternately prevailed. 

 The subsideuce continued and the marine conditions becoming 

 stronger many of the marine forms of life gradually crept up aloug 

 the shore and we have a solid eight feet of limestone. A slight 

 change takes place and two feet of sand are laid down, again to be 

 succeeded by another bed of limestone of the same character as 

 before, this time ten feet in thickness. 



Following this upper limestone we have 120 feet of clay and 

 finally 30 feet of sand with calcareous boulders and a few fossils and 

 then another change takes place. The old channel with its sands, 

 clays and limestones is completely obliterated and a shallow, brackish 

 water condition of affairs takes place, covering the whole area from 

 west to east with a totally different set of deposits. These form the 

 great liguitic series of this region. 



The changes that ushered in the liguitic stage brought about the 

 final destruction of the glauconitic sandy portion of the upper cre- 

 taceous, completed the isolation of the cretaceous islands and laid 

 down great beds of sand along the whole coast. Owiug to ex- 

 tensive overlapping of the newer members of the series, the base of 

 these beds is seldom seen but wherever sufficiently deep exposures 

 occur the basal portion of these liguitic deposits are found to be 

 made up of coarse bluish-gray, to gray, sand with occasional in- 

 terstratified strata of indurated sand or soft sandstone, more or less 

 calcareous, and at wide intervals these deposits are interstratified 

 with thin strata of laminated clay. In the Brazos River section 

 these deposits have a thickness of about 300 feet, but they become 

 thinner as they extend eastward and westward from this line. In 

 the northeastern portion of the State these sands rest directly upon 

 the cretaceous and are very much thinner and have a thickness of 

 probably not more than 50 feet. . 



The conditions brought about by these changes appear to have 

 been inimical to animal life, or at least to the preservation of its 

 remains. Nowhere within the whole region has a solitary individual 



79 Geikie's Text Book of Geology, Second edition, p. 355. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



fossil been found and even the lignite so plentiful in the upper clayey 

 portion of the lignitic appears to be wanting altogether or is ex- 

 tremely scarce. From this condition we might infer that the coast 

 line was for a long time faced by a broad expanse of littoral sands, 

 over which the sea flowed intermittently and at irregular periods, 

 and at different depths, carrying with its waves enormous, although 

 irregular quantities of sand. The fresh water streams, with the ex- 

 ception of the two rivers, the Brazos and Trinity, having no fixed 

 channels spread their deposits over the sands to be afterwards re-ar- 

 ranged by the succeeding tidal waters. 



The marine action being intermittent the sandy shores would 

 necessarily be exposed to atmospheric agencies for frequent and 

 probably considerable periods of time, while the fresh water deposits 

 would be thin and widely spread, and disturbed if not altogether 

 destroyed, by every inundation of the sea. Under these conditions 

 the irregular thickness of the beds and their indurated portions may 

 readily be accounted for while at the same time they would be ex- 

 tremely inhospitable for molluscan life and any stray shell that might 

 find its way into the region would surfer desiccation and be almost 

 immediately broken to a fine powder. Many of the bays along the 

 southern coast of Scotland present the same features at the present 

 day. There we have a series of deposits of sands and clays forming 

 the immediate shore line elevated from 7 to 10 feet above a broad 

 foreshore of sand, over which the sea only tlows at periods of ex- 

 treme high water or during storms. Immediately in front of othis, 

 to the seaward, lies a belt of sand covered but lightly during 

 "spring " tides and dry during the periods of "neap" or low tides, 

 while again in front of this, we find the life zone or region of niol- 

 lusks. This is covered by every tide that flows. The higher grounds 

 are under cultivation and the fore shore is covered with a scanty 

 vegetation of samphire and other salt-loving plants. This strip 

 forms the well-known "links" of that coast. The two outer 

 zones are totally devoid of vegetation. The same condition of 

 affairs also prevails at the head. of the Bay of Fundy, in Nova 

 Scotia and throughout many other portions of this continent. 



The fauna of this period must be looked for much farther to the 

 south and southwest where marine conditions prevailed altogether, 

 and when the sea was gradually raising up a barrier of sand be- 

 tween itself and the shore. This barrier, by closing out the sea, or 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



the greater portion of its water and at the same time damming back 

 the rivers allowed the fresh water to gradually spread over the whole 

 area and form a fresh water lagoon into which the rivers and streams 

 in time of floods carried great quantities of mud and fine sand. The 

 deposition of these in the still waters of the lagoons gradually formed 

 the sandy clays found sparingly distributed among the sanely de- 

 posits. But as the whole work of the sea is an incessant building up 

 and tearing down, a period of storms or extra high water would 

 eventually destroy the sandy barriers and again the whole flat would 

 be subject to marine influences and the deposition of marine deposits. 

 Probably the rivers themselves, by the washing out of the bars at 

 their mouths aided in the work. 



Although the land had gradually subsided, the subsidence scarcely 

 kept pace with the upbuilding of the sea and each succeeding inroad 

 would have less influence than the preceding, until a time would be 

 reached when the rivers and streams gained the ascendancy and then 

 would commence a time of heavier and more extensive clayey de- 

 posits. Most of "these clayey deposits are laminated and* from this 

 we may infer that they were never absolutely beyond marine influence, 

 however weak it may have been at times. 



At that time, we may reasonably suppose, the sea had formed a 

 broad bar of sufficient strength to prevent the ingress of salt water 

 except on very exceptional occasions or at low points in much the 

 same manner as along the present coast. No doubt there were some 

 differences but these we are unable to point out as all evidences have 

 long since been covered up by overlying deposits or erosion. 



It was to this time we may ascribe the beginning of the deposition 

 of the vast beds of lignite so prominent throughout the greater por- 

 tion of the area. Prior to this no lignite appears to have been 

 formed and none have been found in the lower sands. It must be 

 remembered that throughout the whole lignite field the lignites rest 

 upon clays and that these clays contain great quantities of carbo- 

 naceous matter in the forms of leaves and stems of delicate plants, 

 none of which could bear transportation to any great distance. 



Many conditions of origin have been ascribed to these lignitic de- 

 posits. Some writers assert " that these beds were formed as off-shore 

 deposits and the beds of lignite are accumulations of land vegeta- 

 tion carried out to sea and becoming water-logged, sunk in heaps in 

 much the same manner as beds are forming in the bed of the present 

 11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



gulf. " 80 Others, again, ascribe to the lignites a swamp or lagoon 

 formation aud favor the theory that the greater portion of the neces- 

 sary vegetation grew where the lignite is now found. Dr. Penrose 

 attributes their origin in Texas to bayous and lagoons on the coast 

 and says: "Such places were probably heavily timbered and year 

 after year the trees dropped their leaves and dead branches on the 

 moist ground. Here they collected and were mixed with dead reeds, 

 moss, grass, etc. As the trees themselves died, they also lay down 

 in the same grave and rotted in the same boggy waters as their 

 leaves and branches, until often a great thickness of decayed veget- 

 able matter had been collected." 81 Another theory might be added. 

 These lignite beds grew upon the exact spots iu which they are now 

 found and are due to the swampy condition of the region, but the 

 material contributing to their structure did not consist of large trees 

 but rather of the growth of small marsh plants such as are found in 

 the underlying clays, that the presence of tree trunks in these beds 

 is largely adventitious and brought in during periods of inundation. 

 When the plant growth became strong enough to support arboreal 

 vegetation small trees undoubtedly did grow in some portions of the 

 lagoon but never to such an extent that they could contribute much 

 toward the formation of the great lignite deposits as we now find 

 them. 



To the first of these theories, that the beds of lignite are due to 

 accumulations of land vegetation carried out to sea, there are many 

 and serious objections. In the first place, we have the wide, almost 

 universal distribution of these lignite beds, their great thickness in 

 many places, their exact superposition one above the other for at 

 least six times, their general purity and the utter absence of fossils. 

 Passing over the question of the enormous amount of vegetation 

 necessary to be carried out to sea to form these beds we are con- 

 founded with the question of their superposition. In order to ob- 

 tain this we have to suppose a series of undulations of uniform eleva- 

 tion and subsidence with a uniform series of currents having equal 

 powers of transportation, extending through an enormous length of 

 time. It will also be necessary to suppose long periods of cessation 

 in the deposition of vegetable matter and during which great thick- 



80 Geol. Survey of Ark., Vol. II, of 1888, p. 60. 



31 Geol. Survey of Texas, First Annual Report, 1889, p. 91. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



ness of sands and clays were laid down. Another point not satis- 

 factorily explained by this theory is the general homogeneity of 

 structure exhibited by these beds and their freedom from interlami- 

 nations of or interstitial clays. Vegetable deposits due to drift ma- 

 terial would naturally contain more or less clay intermixed with the 

 deposit. And again we can hardly suppose the sea to have been 

 devoid of either vegetable or animal life. 



The theory that these lignite beds were formed from materials 

 growing in situ while probably it does not explain all the difficulties 

 attached to the question comes much nearer doing so than any other. 

 As far back as 1828 A. Bronghiart held the opinion that coal was 

 formed of plants growing in situ and in 1853 Le Conte taught that 

 coal was formed as in the peat swamps of the present day, but these 

 swamps occurred at the mouths of large rivers and were subject to 

 overflows by the rivers and occasional inundations by the sea. 82 The 

 absence of river mud he ascribes to a straining operation of the 

 plants along the margins of the swamp and quotes Mr. Lyell as the 

 authority for the statement that "although the peat swarnps of the 

 Mississippi are annually flooded by river water they are entirely un- 

 touched by river mud. These favored spots are surrounded, par- 

 tially on the side next the river, by dense vegetation, which, acting 

 as a sieve, completely strains the water of its mud before it reaches 

 the peat swamp. The water of these swamps is, therefore, pure, 

 and pure peat has been quietly depositing there for ages. 



According to Giimbel coal should be considered an inland deposit 

 formed in wide, flat depressions of continents and also on low grounds 

 along the sea coast. Undisturbed growth of marsh vegetation 

 alternated with floods during a long continued subsidence might reach 

 locally a thickness of several thousand yards of successive beds of 

 coal, sandstone and shale. 83 



As already suggested the sea had reached to a considerable dis- 

 tance south of the lignitic areas and a broad but low sand bar, 

 broken in places, protected the sandy plains from marine invasion. 

 Erosion had begun work on this sandy waste and the different streams 

 were being gathered into the courses they were subsequently to 

 occupy. This cause of destruction operated rapidly, as it does now, 



82 Smithsonian Institution Report of 1853, pp. 136-137. 



83 Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Texturverhiilt d. Mineralkohlen, 1883. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



and iu a comparatively short period the chief drainage outlets such 

 as the Sabine, Sulphur, Neches and the other smaller rivers had out- 

 lined their main channels and drainage areas. The Brazos and 

 Trinity rivers being already formed, enlarged their scope of opera- 

 tions, and here, we have also to consider the influences of the Red 

 River and Mississippi drainage systems on the coast. Fresh water 

 gradually spread over the greater portion of the regions and by the 

 deposition of the loads of mud brought down by the different streams 

 covered the flat, sandy country with a soft clayey soil. Irregularities 

 of deposition, accentuated by the irregularities of erosion and the 

 eternally changing conditions of the sand bars in the rivers and the 

 periodical flooding and low water changes in the rivers led to the 

 formation of irregular ridges of sand and the lenticular deposits of 

 clay we now find throughout the whole area. 



The damming of broad valleys of erosion by the sand bars at 

 their mouths formed wide tracts of marshy lands or lagoons and 

 these gradually acquiring a vegetation fitted for such localities 

 became the birth places of our extensive lignite beds. 



This condition went on year after year, periodical floods brought 

 into the marshes additional supplies of fresh water. There is no 

 reason to suppose there was a greater absence of the straining influ- 

 ences of the plants along the outer edges then, than now, and every 

 one can see this operation being carried on in marshy regions at the 

 present day. The presence of small trees occasionally found in the 

 lignite beds may be accounted for by the fact that during the course 

 of time these marshes acquired a suface soil of sufficient density to 

 support a growth of such swamp loving trees as cypress, gum, etc. 

 These grew, flourished and eventually dying, their trunks fell and 

 were buried in the soft vegetation of' the marsh. Some of them 

 appear to have left their stumps standing where they grew. 



During the course of time iu which these marshes and swamps 

 were growing it is reasonable to suppose that many of the uplands 

 and ridges between them acquired a vegetation. Marshy plants and 

 bushes fringed the pools and shed their leaves and branches into 

 them. Stronger trees grew on the higher grounds and the whole 

 country presented a forest clad appearance. Such a condition is seen 

 to-day along many of the rivers. Sloughs, ponds and "cut offs ' 

 are common along the Sulphur and other streams in the northeastern 

 portions. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



This vast growth of vegetation implies several conditions of exist- 

 ence. The climate must have been moderately warm, very moist and 

 the whole surface of the land slowly subsiding. The whole territory 

 lay at a very small elevation above the sea and but a slight oscilla- 

 tion of the land was necessary to place the whole again within the 

 grasp of the sea. 



How many times these conditions were repeated we do not know. 

 That would depend upon the number of lignite beds, but as these 

 have not been correlated with each other, if indeed they ever can 

 be, over any more than small areas, even these cannot be taken 

 absolutely as a chronometer reliable enough to indicate the number 

 of oscillations that may have taken place. 



Towards the close of this stage there came a time, however, in 

 which the sea began to assert its right of domain and to again cover 

 the face of the country with sand and sandy clay. This time is 

 represented in the beautifully striped or banded beds of the Queen 

 City deposits. The time of lignite making had come to an end and 

 a new order of things commenced. These beds represent a period of 

 comparative quiescence, and from the uniform thickness of the lamina- 

 tion and alternate banding of red and white sands and clays, appear 

 to have been a beach formation. How far these beds covered the lig- 

 nites is not known; they are only found as remnants of what probably 

 was a very widely extended series of deposits. Their northern boundary 

 shows signs of extensive erosion and their southern margin has never 

 been seen. 



The relative time of deposition of these beds could not have been 

 very long as the greatest thickness found anywhere does not exceed 

 65 feet. They probably represent a period in which the land lay 

 very low and open to a long sweep of tidal waters. 



A slight change in the relative positions of land and sea again 

 brought deeper water along the Texan coast and heavy beds of sand 

 were heaped up and spread along the shore. A few of the marine 

 forms of life began to appear. Amoug them we find some such as 

 Veriericardia planicosta, Tiirritella sp., and which had survived 

 the changes from the basal beds up. This condition continued 

 until nearly 300 feet of sands and sandy clays had been deposited. 

 The faunal life increased somewhat during that time but did not, so 

 far as our evidence shows, reach the quantity of richness of the 

 latter half of this period. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



About this time a change clue to some extraneous causes occurred. 

 Whatever the cause of this change may have been it induced a 

 flexing, or gentle undulation, involving the whole series from the 

 middle of the Marine beds backward to and including a portion of 

 the upper Cretaceous. This flexing apparently brought the long 

 period of subsidence to an end. The whole of the lower Marine 

 beds were brought to the surface and a period of elevation began. 

 During this stage the last 250 feet of the Marine beds were deposited 

 in comparatively shallow water and along a sandy floor sloping 

 gently seaward. 



With the close of the Marine beds the elevation ceased, and for a 

 long period the land remained stationary. During that time erosion 

 was working actively. The sea to the southward was cutting the 

 sloping shores and carving them in many places into steep cliffs ; the 

 rivers were widening and deepening their channels, carrying their 

 burdens of debris seaward and depositing them in the shallow waters 

 of the Gulf. Here these materials were sorted and arranged into 

 banks of sand with muddy intervals, gradually filling up the 

 shallow shore waters. Again we find the marine waters being 

 gradually closed out, the streams gathered into sluggish bayous 

 and the whole drainage system disarranged. Fresh and salt waters 

 met and mingled in the bayous and occasional inundations covered 

 the whole region. Marsh plants, grasses, reeds and palmettos 

 gradually overspread the wide domain now occupied by the Yegua 

 clays. Again we have a period of slow subsidence and a return to 

 very similar conditions of life as those of lignitic times. The bayous 

 were probably wider, deeper and clearer than those of the lignitic 

 stage and life appears to have been more plentiful. The alligator 

 lived in the marshes and marine shells such as Tellina mooreana Gb. 

 Turritella nasuta var. houstonia Harris, Natica recurva Aid., and 

 Nucula magnified Con., found a means of surviving in some of the 

 sandy deposits along the lines of the greater water courses. 



The time of depression continued long enough to deposit extensive 

 beds of lignite clays and sands to a total thickness of 1,000 feet. 



If we might suppose a slight uplifting of the land areas to the 

 north and consequent tilting of these beds towards the sea we would 

 then find a considerable portion of these marshy areas submerged by 

 deeper and clearer water, a deposition of sands and clays going on 

 and :i partial return to marine conditions of life. The newer 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



deposits would be somewhat unconformable to the lower and 

 submerged ones and would have an appreciable quantity of shore 

 debris mixed with the cleaner marine sands. 



This is the condition in which we find the lower deposits of the 

 Fayette sands. These beds are irregular in form, wedge-shaped ( 

 cross-bedded and often lenticular, the whole indicating a deposition 

 in very shallow water subject to a strong sweep of the tide and often 

 affected by storms. The life of the time as represented in these beds 

 shows leaves, stems and trunks of trees belonging to low- lying, 

 marshy lands. Palm wood is plentiful while the stems and leaves 

 of the palmetto, , rushes and marsh grass may be found in some 

 localities in abundance, showing that when these beds were being 

 deposited the marshy tracts of the Yegua clays to the northward 

 were still the home of such growths. None of these are indigenous 

 to the Fayette sands and exist there only in the form of drift material 

 cast up by the sea. Near the top of the Fayette sands we find 

 trunks and limbs of trees of large size, many of them even now 

 showing diametrie measurements of over three feet, and although some 

 show a length of 25 or 30 feet the greater portion of the logs do not 

 exceed ten or twelve feet in length. Occasionally a stump with the 

 larger roots attached may be found, but this exceedingly rare. A 

 peculiarity regarding these trees is that they are every one in the 

 form of wood opal or in an opalized condition, vitreous and clear 

 when broken, breaking with sharp cutting edges and retaining every 

 mark and line of growth as it appeared in the tree. The outside of 

 these woods is generally a dull white showing a process of decay. 

 This form of wood is peculiar to the Fayette sands and occurs 

 nowhere else within the Texan regions. 



The faunal life connects these beds with the whole series of the 

 Eocene stages as shown in the Texan section and is decidedly marine 

 in every phase. Venericardia planicosta Lam., CalyptrophoruS 

 velatus Con., Mactra sp., Dentalium minutistriatum Gabb, var. 

 dumblei Harris and Corbula alabamensis Lea, as well as many others 

 represent the inhabitants of this portion of the sea at that time. 



To the southward the land was sinking and the sea creeping 

 farther up over the Fayette shores. A deposit of clay was being 

 laid down which within a short time was destined to become the last 

 representative of Eocene times in this portion of the world. These 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



were the Frio clays. With the deposition of these clays the Eocene 

 of Texas came to an end. 



Towards the close of the Fayette time there began a series of earth 

 movements the initial causes, or full effects of which, cannot be indi- 

 cated or understood by what we may observe within the East Texas 

 areas. Only a few of the results, and these are small, may be seen 

 there. Hot springs with an abundance of silica in solution appear 

 to have formed a predominant feature and silicious sinters form 

 extensive deposits through several counties occupied by beds of 

 Fayette time. To these solutions of silica we may possibly ascribe 

 the transformation of the fossil wood into the condition it is now 

 found as well as the many deposits of quartzite found in the same 

 portions of the State. 



These earth movements and the deposition of the sinter continued 

 through the deposition of the Frio clays with which many of the 

 deposits are interstratified and while we need not discuss the causes 

 of these movements here it may be said that the ultimate effect was, 

 at least in Texas, to elevate the whole of the Eocene beds into dry 

 land and this condition continued far into Miocene times. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



AN ARRANGEMENT OF THE RETINAL CELLS IN THE EYES OF FISHES 

 PARTIALLY SIMULATING COMPOUND EYES. 



BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



The peculiar structure of the compound eyes of the Arthropods 

 has attracted a large share of atteutiou from such investigators as 

 Grenadier, Lankester, Watase, Patten, Carriere and others. The 

 peculiarities of structure of compound eyes are so marked that it 

 would be strange if they failed to attract the notice of students of 

 morphology. In the vertebrates the structure of the retina is 

 universally regarded as differing so widely from that of the com- 

 pound type of eye found iu the Arthropods, that few authors have 

 been tempted to institute any very close morphological comparison 

 between them. • I should not attempt such a comparison were 

 it not that I have recently found that in the eye of the larval 

 salmon, Salmo salar, there is an arrangement of the sensory cells of 

 the retinal epithelium that is so regularly and definitely repeated 

 throughout the whole extent of the retina as to admit of no question. 



The observations . upon which my statements rest were made 

 upon certain very thin sections of recently hatched salmon larvae. 

 These sections were prepared for an entirely different purpose, and 

 it was only upon casual observation that the peculiarities I am about 

 to describe were first noticed. 



These sections ranged from 2. 5 to 5 mikrons in thickness, and no 

 doubt can be thrown upon my observations on the score of faulty 

 technique. The specimens had been splendidly fixed and preserved 

 and were stained in toto in an alcoholic solution of hematoxylin, 

 and differentiated in toto in a one per cent, solution of potassium 

 bichromate. This method leaves but little to be desired for clear- 

 ness of histological differentiation and sharpness of detail. Unfor- 

 tunately, it is only a very few sections out of a complete series that 

 reveal the details that are to be described. These few sections are 

 the first three or four that were cut tangentially to the surface of the 

 retina, and that which is cut just through the ends of the rods and cones 

 and cone- cells, at about the level of the inner or under side of the 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



layer of retinal pigment. One, therefore, only obtains six to eight 

 sections in sectioning an entire eye; that is, three or four just as the 

 surface of the retina is reached by the knife, and again just as it 

 leaves off cutting through the retina at the opposite side of the eye- 

 ball. In other words, very superficial tangential sections only, or 

 such as are cut in a plane very nearly coincident with the bacillary 

 or Jacob's layer will show the regular repetition of structure that 

 impels me to make a comparison between the compound eyes of 

 Arthropods and the retinal structure of the larval salmon. 



The first thing that strikes the observer in examining such sections 

 is the extraordinary regularity with which the bacillary portions of 

 the retinal elements are arranged. One notices that the rods and 

 cones form together a pattern of the most astonishing regularity. 

 That the rods are in groups of four or five, but that the cones are 

 much larger across and always in pairs, or of the nature of Han- 

 nover's double cones and united together closely at their apices. 

 These double cones are arranged in rows in two ways at right 

 angles to each other, like the squares on a chess-board, Fig. 1. If 



Fig. 1. 



one now imagines the rows of double cones to represent the 

 black squares of a chess-board, the groups of rods, which are 

 much smaller in cross-section, may be regarded as occupying the 

 intervening red squares. This is the appearance of a section taken 

 at the outermost level. Pigment from the pigmented layer extends 

 in between the rods and cones, and the distinctness of the regular 

 retinal pattern is thus greatly heightened. In the next section, 

 only 2. 5 to 5 mikrons below the level at which the extreme regu- 

 larity of pattern just described appears, there is another pattern 

 formed by the rods and cones, which shows that the bodies of the 

 pairs have slightly separated from one another. The continuations 

 of the double cones of Hannover are now also seen to be less 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



densely stained, and while still showing a paired condition are no 

 longer in contact, and no longer have their adjacent faces flattened 

 as when united, as in the preceding section. One may now count 

 eight cone cells arranged in four groups, of two each, around a 

 single very distinct rod, Fig. 2. This arrangement is at first some- 



Fig. 2. 





what difficult to make out, but it requires only a short time for the 

 observer to convince himself that a regular arrangement of the rods 

 and cones also obtains at this lower level. This evidence conclu- 

 sively establishes the fact that every one to five rod- cells in the eye 

 of a larval salmon are surrounded by eight cone-cells that are 

 closely opposed or united at their apices into four pairs of two each. 

 At a slightly deeper level the bodies of the pairs of cones separate 

 still more, but traces of a regular pattern can still be made out at 

 a third level. 



I have stated in the title of this paper that there is an arrange- 

 ment of retinal cells of fishes that partially simulates that of the 

 retinal elements in the compound eyes of Arthropods. This definite 

 proviso is necessary because the comparison between the groups 

 consisting of four or five rod-cells and four double cones in the 

 retina of the salmon cannot be exactly homologized with the cell- 

 groups known as ommatidia in the Arthropod eye. In the latter each 

 ommatidium is distinct from its adjacent fellows and none of its cellu- 

 lar elements enter into the formation of the contiguous ommatidia by 

 which it is encircled. In the retina of the larval salmon the case is 

 very different and quite peculiar. Of any one group consisting of 

 five central rod-cells and four double cone- cells, the latter also enter 

 into the formation and form part of eight adjacent similar groups of 

 cells. Into four of the eight adjacent groups two double cone-cells 

 enter, and, alternating with these are four other groups into which 

 only a single pair of the double cone-cells of the central group enters. 

 The comparison is therefore only a partial one. It is obviously absurd 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



to suggest the complete homology of a group consisting of the five 

 central rod- cells and their four surrounding double cones in the 

 retina of the salmon with a single ommatidium of the Arthropod eye. 



To what extent a similar condition holds in the arrangement of the 

 bacillary retinal elements in other groups of vertebrates I am not 

 prepared to say. But this remarkable regularity and repetition of 

 arrangement of cellular elements in the retina of a fish is at least 

 very suggestive. Blaue has shown that the olfactory organ of fishes 

 is made up in some cases of very small discrete sense-organs simula- 

 ting the structure of taste-buds and the small circular sensory buds 

 found in the lateral line organs of fishes. Ayers has traced the 

 probable origin of the complex sensory structures found in the cochlea 

 of vertebrates to a multiplication and subsequent coalescence of 

 originally discrete sense- buds or end-organs, that arose in a way 

 similar to the discrete end-organs of the lateral line. The detection 

 of regularly repeated groups of sense-cells in the retina of one of the 

 lower vertebrates thus becomes highly significant. Is it possible, 

 after all, that the retina of vertebrates has been evolved by the 

 coalescence of very small groups of sense-cells that were at one time 

 separate and simple sense-organs, just as the complex olfactory and 

 auditory sensory epithelia of vertebrates appear to have so arisen ? 

 The arrangement that has been described appears to extend through- 

 out the whole of the functional part of the retina of the larval 

 salmon, so that the grouping of the cells is at least uniform in this 

 type during the early stage of its existence. This is a feature that 

 is in strong contrast with that met with in the retinre of mammals, 

 in which the distribution of rods and cones is not uniform over the 

 whole functional surface of the organ. If, however, there is any 

 truth in the suggestion that the retina of the higher vertebrates has 

 arisen in the same way as the sensory epithelia of the olfactory and 

 auditory organs, namely by the coalescence of originally distinct 

 but repeated, similar sense-organs, then the arrangement that we 

 actually find in the retina of the salmon approximates such a primi- 

 tive condition of structure, though by no means as perfectly as is 

 seen in the compound eyes of Arthropods. 



It may be added that the reason that I assume such a regularly 

 repeated structure recurs throughout the whole of the retina of the 

 young salmon, is because it is found that whenever the planes of 

 meridional sections coincide with rows of double cones, the latter 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



alternate, in vertical sections of the retina also, and with the utmost 

 regularity with the single central rod elements. Such alternating rods 

 and double cones are met with only in sectious cut through the 

 greatest diameter of the eye and exactly vertical to the maximum 

 thickness of the retina, as should be expected from the manner of 

 arrangement of the rods and cones, as seen in sections that are cut 

 horizontally through the bacillary layer and parallel to a plane 

 tangent to its convex surface. 



Max Schultze has figured portions of the bacillary layer of the 

 retina of mammals, as seen from the surface, and one sees in such 

 figures that the cones are repeated at regular intervals, the more 

 numerous rods surrounding the cones. In the retina of the salmon 

 this arrangement is reversed, or at least is not so obvious unless one 

 assumes that every double cone in this form is supposed to be 

 encircled by eight rods. In the salmon the cone elements are most 

 numerous; in mammals they are less numerous than the rods over a 

 very large portion of the retinal surface. The$e facts together with 

 the rest of what has preceded do not conflict, however, with the view 

 that the groups of cells met with in the retina of the young salmon 

 are fairly to be regarded as having arisen from a condition in which 

 such groups of rods and cones were more or less distinct and separate 

 as in the compound eyes of Arthropods. On morphological grounds 

 alone, it seems to me, that we are driven to some such conclusion. 

 No matter what convictions one may hold as to the utter untenability 

 of any hypothesis that seeks to derive the vertebrates from the Arthro- 

 pods or vice versa, it seems probable from the evidence now at hand, 

 that highly complex and specialized sense-organs of all kinds, includ- 

 ing, possibly, the retina of vertebrates; have arisen by the coalescence 

 of simpler, smaller and more numerous sensory organs. That the 

 sense-organs of both vertebrates and Arthropods have pursued 

 parallel paths in the course of their evolution seems highly probable. 

 The frequency with which specialization, reduction and even appar- 

 ent simplification, in some respects, of organs, in the course of 

 organic evolution, is associated with a process of coalescence of more 

 numerous structures having the same function, is very strongly in 

 favor of such a conclusion. 



The single groups of retinal elements in the retina of Salmo, com- 

 prising, as we have seen above, thirteen cells, I propose to call 

 retinidia in contradistinction to what is met with in the Arthropod 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



eye, where the single visual organs are known as ornmatidia. This 

 distinction is a necessary one in view of the fact that it is obviously 

 impossible to assert, in the face of the morphological evidence, that 

 there is an exact homology between what are known as ornmatidia and 

 the cell-groups in Salmo that I have called retinidia. I have found 

 it difficult to determine the exact number of rod-cells in the center 

 of the groups. As nearly as can be made out with an immer- 

 sion y, there are five. At first when this regularity of structure of 

 the salmon's retina was noticed with low powers it was supposed that 

 there was only one rod- cell in the centre of each retinidial group. 

 The overlapping or blending of these groups with one another in 

 Salmo is shown in both Figs. 1 and 2, and this is the one feature that 

 makes it impossible to homologize them exactly with the ornmatidia 

 of the compound eyes of Arthropods. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



THE TRUE NATURE OF THE SO-CALLED "NETTLE-THREADS" OF 



PARAMECIUM. 



BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



It is well known that if Paramcecium aurelia is hurt or irritated 

 in any way that it will discharge from its cuticle what appear to be 

 filaments. This has been known for more than a century, for Elliot 

 in the Philos. Transactions of the Royal Society for 1769, pi. VI, 

 p. 150, gives a very good figure of a P. aurelia with these threads 

 projecting from its surface produced by the juice of the horse-shoe 

 geranium. Dr. G. J. Allmau in Vol. Ill of the Quar. Journ. of 

 Microscop. Science (1855), nearly a century later, upon reinvestiga- 

 ting this subject, comes to the conclusion that these discharged 

 threads are of the nature of nettling or defensive organs and that 

 they are discharged from minute oval or elongate cysts that are 

 closely imbedded in the ectosarc just beneath the cuticle of these 

 organisms. Allman also concludes that they are not identical with 

 the cilia which thickly clothe the organism. Various reagents are 

 known to cause this discharge of thread-like processes from the cuticle 

 or surface of Paramcecium, but no reagent that I know of does this 

 so effectually as tannic acid, the peculiar poteucy of which, for this 

 purpose, was first pointed out by H. Warrington (Journ. Roy. 

 Microscop. Soc, 1884). 



Most naturalists who have written in recent years upon the 

 structure of the Protozoa have accepted Allman' s statement that the 

 threads discharged by Paramcecium are not ciliary in nature. 

 Lankester, among others, makes such a statement very positively. 

 Fortunately there are two ways in which to test the truth of this 

 statement. 



1. It so happens that if a pretty strong solution of tannic acid is 

 used these threads are entirely detached from the body of Para- 

 moeciiim, if the reagent is allowed to act long enough. Endosmotic 

 action is also thus set up so that the cuticle is lifted off of the under- 

 lying ectosarc, which, together with the endosarc, now shrivels into a 

 disorganized, granular mass. The cuticle is seen to be thin and to 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



be very faintly striated in optic section the strire extending through it, 

 and closely approximated to one another. The cuticle is smooth and 

 entirely without cilia in this condition, so that a tannic acid solution 

 enables one to completely remove the cilia and also to separate the 

 cuticle from the underlying plasma. The tannic acid acts, in short, as 

 a sort of "depilatory," removing, apparently, every vestage of cilia 

 from the creature. The "threads" thus removed are very long 

 and of nearly the same thickness throughout. They are not much 

 shorter than the short diameter of the body of the creature, but do 

 not taper as do the cilia. 



This singular behavior of tannic acid in removing all trace of the 

 presence of cilia from the body of Paramcecium has led me to doubt 

 the non- ciliary nature of the threads thrown oft' by the body of this 

 infusorian. If these threads are not cilia why should there be no 

 trace of cilia left on the cuticle after the prolonged action of a 

 solution of tannic acid ? These threads form a dense mat of tangled 

 fibres in the midst of which lie the shriveled remains of its sarcode 

 covered by the cuticle that is now lifted up and everywhere freed 

 from contact with the ectosarc if the creature is subjected to prolonged 

 treatment with tannic acid solution. On Euplotes, Stylonchia and 

 Halteria tannic acid has no such action, proving that these organisms 

 in some way differ very widely in their reaction toward that reagent 

 as compared with the slipper-animalcule. This singular power of 

 tannic acid gives rise to grave suspicions as to the truth of the state- 

 ment that the "threads" developed by tannic acid on the surface of 

 Paramcecium are something different from the cilia. In order to test 

 this suspicion it was necessary to resort to sections of the infusorian 

 in question to see if there really was any ground for the very positive 

 statement of E. R. Lankester and T. J. Parker as to the existence 

 of a fundamental difference between these so-called " nettle- threads" 

 and the cilia of Paramcecium. 



2. By the aid of a method of entrapping, killing and embedding 

 infusoria and other very small objects in paraffine invented by me 

 and fully described in the American Naturalist, XXIX, 1895, pp. 

 194-198, it has been possible to obtain serial sections of Paramcecium, 

 in quantity, of a thickness not exceeding 2.5 mikrons, , () ' lino inch. 

 These sections so fully reveal the true structure of the ecto- 

 sarc that nothing further is needed to show how completely this 

 agrees with the view that the "nettle-threads" are nothing but 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



greatly stretched cilia, that are probably exteuded by some physical 

 action exerted upou them by the tannic acid that has both stretched 

 and swollen them. 



The ectosarc of Paramecium is composed entirely of a system of 

 vertical rods of a plasmic substance that stains somewhat more deeply 

 than the endosarc. These rods are cylindrical and densely packed 

 together with but little clear plasma between them. They extend 

 throughout the whole thickness of the ectosarc and compose more 

 than four- fifths of its substance. They are so closely packed together 

 that their arrangement can very readily be made out to correspond 

 to the origins of the cilia from the cuticle. The arrangement of the 

 cilia is quincuncial, that is, in rows in at least two if not in three 

 directions, which correspond with the mode of arrangement or pack- 

 ing together of the rods of denser plasma of the ectosarc just beneath 

 the cuticle. 



The sections show that where the cuticle is intact and where 

 reagents like osmic acid or corrosive sublimate have provoked the 

 discharge of the "nettle- threads " there are no cilia; where, on the 

 other hand, there has been no discharge of "nettle-thread" there 

 are cilia present. Intermediate stages can also be sometimes dis- 

 covered, that is, partially discharged " nettle- threads " may be 

 observed. These facts seem to me to most distinctly prove that the 

 " nettle- threads " and cilia of Paramecium are identical. No one 

 has yet seen these threads discharged except under abnormal con- 

 ditions. Though I have watched these organisms feeding by the 

 hour I have yet to see that they showed the slightest tendency to 

 throw off the "nettle-threads" except when crushed, roughly 

 handled or brought under the influence of reagents. The fact that 

 few other infusorians have such a distinctly roddecl ectosarc, taken 

 together with the fact that other forms are not affected in the same 

 way by tannic acid leads me to conclude in consideration also of 

 the great number of these rods in the ectosarc of Paramecium that 

 they are connected with the cilia individually and are probably only 

 the expression of the same thing as is seen in the rodded or striated 

 ends of many epithelial cells that bear cilia in multicellular animals. 

 At any rate, whatever else can be established by a reinvestigation of 

 this subject by the aid of the methods I have used, one thing is 

 certain, that tannic acid in solutions of almost any strength will 

 finally remove all of the cilia and leave the cuticle smooth especially 

 12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



if allowed to act for half an hour or more. My sections also con- 

 clusively prove the ectosarc to be quite thick and composed of 

 uniform, deeply staining rods that are packed as densely in one place 

 as another. The form of these rods as figured by several authors is 

 wholly inaccurate and misleading. For example, they are not fusi- 

 form or oval as figured by Lankester in his article Protozoa in the 

 ninth edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica, but cylindrical with 

 bluntly rounded ends. Where the collapsing vesicles ("contractile 

 vesicles ' ' of authors) are placed there appears to be a peculiar 

 separation of these rods at their inner ends to admit of the approxi- 

 mation of the vesicles to the under surface of the cuticle. 



For killing and fixing my material I found that osmic acid and 

 corrosive sublimate gave good results, both these reagents acting with 

 such rapidity ae to exclude in a large measure the production of 

 artifacts. Staining was done on the slide with hsematoxylin and 

 Biondi-Heidenhain mixture. Nuclei and food vacuoles are apt to 

 stain strongly if the staining on the slide is attempted with hsema- 

 toxylin- Very good results can also be got by staining the objects 

 in toto, as directed in the paper cited above describing my method of 

 handling such very minute objects. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



March 5. 

 Dr. Samuel G. Dixon in the Chair. 



Twenty- five persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 "On an Arrangement of the Retinal Cells in the Eyes of Fishes 

 Partially Simulating Compound Eyes," by John A. Ryder. "The 

 True Nature of the so-called 'Nettle Threads' of Paramoecium," 

 by John A. Ryder. 



The death of John H. Redfield, a member, on the 27th ult., in his 

 eightieth yeai", was announced. The following minute was unani" 

 mously adopted : 



JOHN H. REDFIELD. 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has heard with 

 deep sorrow the announcement of the death of John H. Redfield who, 

 in his unselfish devotion to its interests, has long been one of its most 

 active benefactors. 



Always an earnest student of nature, his last years of deserved 

 freedom from business engagements were devoted to his favorite 

 studies in connection with the Academy and to the arrangement and 

 care of the herbarium. 



The steady growth and admirable condition of the botanical col- 

 lection constitute it an enduring monument. to his industry and zeal. 



As Chairman of the Publication Committee and member of the 

 Council, the same fidelity and discretion characterized the discharge 

 of his duties. 



He was a man of strong but tender character ; firm in his support 

 of the right, but tolerant of all honest difference of opinion ; cheerful, 

 gentle, modest and cultured. Time was to him one of his most 

 precious possessions, yet he was ever gladly at the service of those 

 requiring advice or assistance. 



He was an earnest student, a wise counsellor and a steadfast 

 friend. His encouragement and loving sympathy endeared him to 

 his associates who felt for him a personal affection which enables 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



them to appreciate the irreparable loss sustained by his family, to 

 whom they would offer their heartfelt sympathy. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan was appointed to prepare a biographical 

 notice of Mr. Redfield. 



March 12. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



The death of Geo. N. Lawrence, a correspondent, was announced. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " A Study of the Systematic and Geographic Distribution of the 

 Decapod Family Crangonidte Bate," by Arnold E. Ortmann. 

 "Does the Delaware Water Gap Consist of Two River Gorges?" 

 by Emma Walter. 



Dr. Harrison Allen was elected to fill the vacancy in the Council 

 caused by the death of Mr. Redfield. 



March 19. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Twenty-six persons present. 



The deaths of Passmore Williamson and Dr. Elmore C. Hine, 

 members, were announced. 



March 26. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven persons present. 



The death of Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, on the 24th inst., in his 

 eighty-eighth year, was announced, and also that of John A. Ryder, 

 on the 26th inst., aged forty -three years. 



The Council reported that Dr. Harrison Allen had been appointed 

 on the Publication Committee to fill the vacancy caused by the 

 death of Mr. John H. Redfield. 



The following were elected members: Edwin S. Dixon, Willed 

 E. Rotzell, M. D., J. W. Horter, Harry Blake Tyler and Charles L. 

 Brown. 



The following were ordered to be priuted : 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



A STUDY OF THE SYSTEMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF 

 THE DECAPOD FAMILY CRANGONIDJE BATE. 



BY ARNOLD E. CtftTMANN. 



In a former paper 1 I gave in general terms the limits of the Indo- 

 Pacific literal region, to which I added a study of the origin of the 

 recent literal regions of the world. As these considerations, founded 

 upon the geographical distribution of the Decapoda, contain but a 

 few detailed investigations, it is necessary to go more into detail when 

 a separate group of Decapoda is examined and to state the relations 

 to the principles given in the paper quoted. In 1891 I revised the 

 genera Palaemon and Bithyms 2 and gave an account of their 

 geographical distribution. In 1894 I published an account of the 

 family Atyidre! 3 These groups of fresh water Crustacea are wholly 

 unlike each other in respect to their geographical range and agree 

 only in that they are true tropical animals. Whilst the Palcemon 

 and Bithynis group of the Palsemonida; is a very recent one, related 

 in its distribution, without doubt, to the limits of the recent marine 

 literal regions, the family Atyida? is comparatively an ancient one, 

 showing in no way relations to the former. 



In the present paper I will treat of a true marine group, the 

 family of Crangonidse, which is characterized by the adaptation of 

 most of its members to the cold waters of the Arctic and deep sea 

 regions. 



Fossil remains of Crangonid?e are unknown. In all species referred 

 with more or less doubt to this family, the typical characters are not 

 evident. The absence of Crangonidoe from the Tertiary deposits 

 agrees with their morphological characters and their supposed recent 

 development. They form the most extreme end of one of the two 

 main branches of the Eucyphidea. 4 The principal character is the 

 more or less reduced condition of the second pair of pereiopoda. The 



1 Jenaische Denkschrift. VIII, 1894, p. 68 P. Crustaceen in Seinon, Zoolog. 

 Forschungsreisen in Australien und dem malayischeu Archipel. 



2 Zoologische Jahrbiicher, V, 1891, p. 693-750. 



3 Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1894, p. 397-416. 



4 Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, pp. 462, 463. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Crangonidse are connected with the Nikichc by the genus Glypho- 

 crangon, but this connection is not a close one — there are some 

 gaps. 



Among the Crangonidse, the genus Pontocaris is no doubt the most 

 primitive in regard to the sculpture of the carapace; the number of 

 gills and the shape of the second pair of pereiopoda. From P<»ito- 

 caris arise two divergent branches: the one through the subgenus 

 Sclerocmngon to Crangon, ending in Nectocrangon, characterized by 

 no shortening of the second pair of pereiopoda, by the reduction of 

 the number of gills, and by the surface of the body becoming grad- 

 ually smoother. The other branch is represented by the genera 

 Pontophilus, Sabinea, Paracrangon, characterized by the reduction of 

 the second pair of pereiopoda in length, by retaining the primitive 

 number of gills and the sculpture of the body. In Pontophilus some 

 species have the body more or less smooth. The genus Prionocrangon 

 is an aberrant one, without eyes, but related probably to the genera 

 Pontophilus and Sabinea of the second branch. 



CRANGONIDSE Bate, 1888. 



Crangonincz Kingsley, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1879, p. 411. 

 Crangonid<z Bate, Challenger Macrur., 1888, p. 481, Ortiuaim, Zoolog. Jahrb., 

 V, 1890, p. 462. 



Mandibles simple, slender, incurved, not dilate or bifid, without a 

 synaphipod. First pair of legs stouter than the second, hand sub- 

 chelate, the dactylus closing on the margin of the palm, the pollex 

 being spiniform. Second pair of legs very feeble, chelate, often 

 shortened, not chelate, or wholly reduced. External maxillipeds 

 pediform. Maxilla with more or less reduced innermost parts. 

 Rostrum mostly short. 



a, . Second pair of legs present. 

 by. Eyes present. 

 Cj. Second legs not remarkably shortened (carpal joh*t and hand 

 together longer than the merus). Gills seven on each side. 

 Carapace with dentate longitudinal keels .... Pontocaris. 

 <',. Second legs not shortened. Gills five on each side. 

 d Y . Eyes free. Dactyli of the two posterior pairs of legs not 



dilated Crangon. 



d 2 . Eyes nearly hidden by the frontal part of the carapace. 

 Dactyli of the two posterior pairs of legs dilated, natatorial. 

 Nectoceangon. 




1985.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



c 3 . Second legs remarkably shortened (carpal joint and hand to- 

 gether not longer than the merus). Gills seven. 5 



d l . Second legs chelate . . Pontophilus. 



d 2 . Second legs not chelate Sabinea. 



6 2 . Eyes wanting. Second legs not chelate, rather robust, with 

 fringes of long, plumose seta} A spiny median crest on the cara- 

 pace Prionocrangon. 



'/.,. Several pairs of legs wholly obsolete. Rostrum elongated. 



Paracrangon. 



PONTOCARIS Bate, 1888. 

 Bate, Challenger Macrur. 1888, p. 495. 



Very nearly allied to Crangon, especially to Sclerocrangon. 

 Second periopoda not remarkably shortened, carpus and pal ma 

 together longer than the merus. Six pleurobranchise (i-o) and one 

 podobranchia (h) present (see Bate, 1. c, p. 496). Carapace with 

 seven keels, the five uppermost dentate. Abdomen sculptured. 



Oy. Anterior lateral angles of carapace projecting forward. Rostrum 

 acuminate P. propensalata. 



a.,. Anterior lateral angles of carapace obliquely directed outward and 

 forward. Rostrum bidentate P.pennata. 



1. Pontocaris propensalata Bate, 1888. 



Bate, Challenger Macrur. 1888. p. 496, pi. 90, figs. 2, 3, pi. 85, fig. 5. 



Geographical distribution: Ki Island, near New Guinea, 140 

 fath. (Bate). 



2. Pontocaris pennata Bate, 1888. 

 Bate, ibid., p. 499, pi. 91. 



Geographical distribution: Arafura Sea, 49 fath. (Bate). 



CRANGON Fahricius 1798 (restrict). 



Fabricius, Suppl. Entomol. Syst., 1798, p. 409 (pr. part). Kingsley, Proceed. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1879, p. 412. 



Second perciopoda not remarkably shortened, with chehe. Eyes 

 present, free. Five gills present: four pleurobranchise (1. m. n. o.), 

 one arthrobranchia (k.). fi 



5 The number of gills has not been examined in all species. I found five 

 gills in: Crangon boreas, salebrosus. intermedins, typicus, ajfinis. francis- 

 corum, Nectocrdngon lav, and seven in Pontophilus norvegicus, Sabinea 

 septemcarinata. By other authors ( Bate, Smith) are recorded five in Crangon 

 agassizi, and seven in Pontocaris propensalata, pennata, Pontophilus bre- 

 virostris, abyssi, challengeri, Sabinea hystrix. 



6 Smith records in Cr. agassizi a pleurobranchia on k, but no arthro 

 branchia. The branchial formula given by Bate (1. c, p. 482) 

 wrong. 



is certainly 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



G. O. Sars creates for some species the genus Sclerocrangon. I 

 can not adopt this genus, but I retain it as a subgenus. 



a 1 . Carapace strongly sculptured, at least two spines in the median 

 line. Abdomen mostly strongly sculptured, seldom nearly smooth. 



• Subgenus: Sclerocrangon. 



b t . Median keel of carapace with three or four spines. Lateral 

 keels of carapace partly granulate or rugose. Abdomen sculp- 

 tured by longitudinal keels and transverse furrows. 

 c x . Epimera of the abdominal segments provided with spines. 

 Carapace with more than three keels. Spines not excessively 

 developed. Sternum with a sharply serrated keel. 

 d x . Keels of the carapace sharply granulated, keels of the ab- 

 domen sharp, epimera of the abdominal segments with 

 one to three spines. 



e x . The rostrum is simple Cr. salcbrosus (l) 7 . 



e 2 . A long acute tooth is given off from the lower side of ros- 

 trum, which reaches as far forward as the tip of the ros- 

 trum Or. atrox. 



d... Keels of the carapace somewhat rugose, keels of the abdo- 

 men not sharp, epimera of the abdominal segments only with 



one spine each Or. boreas (14). 



c 2 . Epimera of the abdominal segments without spines. Cara- 

 pace with three keels, the median one with four very long 



spines. Sternum with a dentated keel Cr. sharpi (2). 



6 2 . Median keel of carapace with two spines. Lateral keels of 

 carapace smooth, ending in front in the usual spines. Abdomen 

 smooth, or with smooth longitudinal keels. 

 Cj. Epimera of the first and second abdominal segments with 

 small spinules. Abdomen with longitudinal keels. Often a 

 rudimentary third median spine in the median line of carapace 

 between the two well-developed ones. 



Cr. agassizi. 



Cr. procax. 



c 2 . Epimera of abdomen without spinules. Median spines of 

 carapace small. 

 d x . Abdomen with longitudinal median keels. 

 e x . Sixth abdominal segment with two sharp keels. 



Or. intermedins (2). 



e 2 . Keel of the sixth abdominal segment behind the middle 



finely furrowed Cr. angusticauda (4) . 



(/,. Abdomen not sculptured Cr. munitus. 



a.,. Carapace not sculptured, only with one median, and mostly with 

 one lateral spine on each side (the latter being absent in Cr. capen- 

 sis). Abdomen nearly smooth Subgenus: Crangon. 



7 I put in parentheses, following each species, the number of specimens 1 

 have examined myself. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



b x . Carapace with three spines: one in the median line, and two 

 laterals. 

 c : . Fifth segment of the abdomen on the posterior margin with- 

 out spines. Hand more stout, about three times as long as 

 broad Or. orangon. 



SUBSPECIES. 



d x . All segments of the abdomen rounded dorsal ly. 



Cr. orangon (many). 



d. 2 . Some of the posterior segments of the abdomen sculptured. 



e,. Fourth and fifth segments (seldom also the third) with a 



feeble longitudinal keel, sixth and seventh feebly furrowed. 



Or. orangon affinis (many). 



e 2 . Third to fifth segment without keels, sixth with two dis- 

 tinct keels, seventh furrowed . . Cr. orangon allmanni (1). 

 c 2 . Fifth segment of the abdomen on the posterior margin, near 

 the median line, with a posteriorly projecting spine on each 

 side. 



d x . Hand more slender, about four times as long as broad. Ab- 

 dominal segments rounded above . Or. franciscorum (many). 

 d 2 . Hand more stout, about three times as long as broad. Sixth 

 and seventh segment of abdomen furrowed. 



Cr. antarcticus. 



l> 2 . Carapace only with a spine in the median line, the lateral ones 

 wanting Cr. oaperms. 



Subgenus SCLEROCRANGON G. O. Sarr, 1885. 

 G. O. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordhavs Exped., Zool., Crust. I, 1885, p. 14. 



1. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) salebrosus Owen, 1839. 



Crci)iffon salebrosus Owen, Crust. Zool. Beechey's Voy. Blor,soni, 1839. p. 88, 



pi. 27, fig. 1. Stimpsou, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Philadelphia, 1860, p. 25. 



Kingsley, Bull. Essex Iustit., 14, 1S82, p. 129. Stuxberg, Vega. Exped. Y, 



1887, p. 53. 

 Cheraphilus ferox G. O. Sars, Arch. Mathem. Naturvid. II, 1877, p. 339. 

 Sclerocrangon salebrosus (Ow.) G. O. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordb. Exped., Zool., 



Crust. I, 1885, p. 15, pi. 2. 



Geographical distribution: Northern circumpolar. — Kamschatka 

 (Owen): Avatska Bay, 10 fath. (Stimpson), Spitsbergen, Jan. 

 Mayen; off Norway, 100-459 fath. (G. O. Sars), Kara Sea, 55-60 

 fath. (Stuxberg). 



2. Crangon (Solerocrangon) atox Faxon, 1893. 

 Faxon, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. 24, 1893, p. 199. 



Geographical distribution: Western coast of Mexico, 660-676 

 fath. (Faxon). 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



3. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) boreas (Phipps) 1774. 



Cancer boreas Phipps, Voy. North Pole, 1774, p. 100, pi. 12 fig. 1. 



Cancer homaroides Fabricius, Faun. Gronland, 1780, p. 241. 



Astacus boreas (Ph.) Fabricius, Entomol. Syst, II, 1703. p. 483. 



Crangon boreas {Ph.) Fabricius, Suppl. Ent. Syst. 1708, p. 400. Sabiue, Suppl. 



Append. Parry's first Voy. 1824, 235. Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust. II, 



1837, p. 342. Kroyer, Naturh. Tidsskr., IV, 1842, p. 218, pi. 4, figs. 1-14. 



Milne-Edwards, Atlas. ■ Cuvier, Regn. Anim. pi. 51, fig. 2, (no date). 



Brandt, Krebse, in Middendorff's Siber. Reis., II, Zool. 1851, p. 114. 



Danielssen, Beretn. Zool. Reise, 1859, p. 4. Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Philadelphia, 1860, p. 25. Buchholz, Zweite Deutsch. Nordpol. II, 



1874, Crust, p. 271. Kingsley, Bull. Essex Inst. X, 1878, page 54. Smith 



Trans. Conn. Acad., V, 1879, p. 56. Stuxberg, Vega Exped., V, 1887, 



p. 53. 

 Cheraphilus boreas {Ph.) Miers, Annal.Magaz. Nat. His. (4) XX, 1877, p. 57. 



Hoek, Niederl, Arch. Zool , Suppl. 1, 7, Crust. 1882, p. 10. Murdoch, Rep. 



Pol. Exped. Point Barrow, 1885, p. 139. 

 Crangon (Cheraphilus) boreas (Ph.) Miers, Jour. Linn. Soc, Zool. XV, 1881, 



p. 60. 

 Sclerocrangon boreas (Ph.) G. O. Sars, Christiania Vid. Selsk. Forh. 1882, p, 



7. G. 6. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordh. Exp. Zool. Crust. II. 1886, p. 6. Koelbel, 



Die Oesterr. Polarst, Jan Mayen, III, 1886, Zool. E. p. 51. Ortmann, Zool. 



Jahrb. V, 1890, p. 532. 



Geographical distribution: Northern circumpolar. Norway 

 (Danielssen, G. O. Sars) Barents Sea and Nowaja Semlja, 25-140 

 fath. (Hoek); Franz Joseph Land (Miers); Beeren Island (G. O. 

 Sars); Spitsbergen, shallow water (Hoek, G. O. Sars) Jan Mayen 

 (K(ilbel); Iceland (Kroyer); east coast of Greenland, 4-27 fath. 

 (Buchholz); west coast of Greenland, to 87° 44 v lat. northward 

 (Miers); Davis Strait and Melville Island (Sabine); N. E. coast of 

 America, from Labrador to Massachusetts Bay, 5-33 fath. (Smith); 

 northern coast of America to Berings Strait, 10-26 fath. (Stimpson); 

 Alaska: Point Franklin, 13 fath. and Port Clarence (Murdoch); 

 Siberia (Brandt, Stuxberg). 



4, Crangon (Sclerocrangon) sharpi nov. spec. 8 



Paracranq-on echinatus Sharp (non Dana), Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila- 

 delphia, 1893, p. 126. 



8 Description: Carapace with three keels, the median one with four long 

 spines, the first longest and placed on the upper margin of rostrum, which 

 extends a little beyond the eyes; the second spine nearly as long as the first, 

 placed immediately behind the base of the rostrum. The spines are directed 

 obliquely forward and upward. Lateral keels formed by four spines, the fore- 

 most, on the anterior margin of carapace near the base of antenna?, is the longest, 

 and directed obliquely forward and outward, more than half as long as the cara- 

 pace; the three others are smaller, but sharp. Abdomen sculptured, first to sixth 

 segment with a median keel, that of the third arched and produced somewhat 

 posteriorly, that ofthesixth finely furrowed and ending in twospines posteriorly. 

 Two other spines are placed at the posterior margin of this segment, one on each 

 side. Fifth segment, on the posterior margin, near the median line, with a sharp 

 spine on each side. Lateral faces of the first to fifth segment sculptured by two 

 irregular transverse furrows, sixth segment laterally with an indistinct longi- 

 tudinal ridge. EpimeTa of the first to fourth segment triangular, inferior angles 

 blunt, without spines. Keel of sternum dentate, but not spinoso-serrate. 



Two specimens are in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Science of 

 Philadelphia. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Geographical distribution : Alaska, Kodiac Archip.: Marmot Isle, 

 4.3 lath. (Sharp). 



5. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) agassizi (Smith), 1882. 



Cheraphilus agassizi Smith, Bull. Mus. Compar. Zool.. Cambridge, X, 1882, p. 

 32, pi. 7, fig. 4, 5. Rep. U. S. Fish Conim. for 1882, 1884, p. 362. 



Geographical distribution: Atlantic, eastern coast of United States, 

 31-41° N. Lat., 65-78° W. Long., 263-959 fath. (Smith). 



6. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) procax Faxon, 1893. 



Faxon, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Cambridge, XXIV, 1893, p. 199. 



Geographical distribution: Western coast of Central America: 

 Gulf of California to Panama Bay, 660 to 905 fath. (Faxon.) 



7. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) intermedins Stimpson, 1860. 



Crangon intermedins Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1860, 



p. 25. 

 Crangon tenuifrons Kingsley, Bull. Essex lust., 14, 1882, p. 128, pi. 1, fig. 10. 



Geographical distribution : Bering Sea, Cape Chepoonski, 40 fath. 

 (Stimpson); Alaska: Marmot Isl. (Kingsley). 



8. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) angusticauda de Haan, 1849. 



Crangon angusticauda de Haan, Faun. Japon. Crust. Dec, 6, 1849, p. 183, pi. 



45, fig. 15. Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1860, p. 25. 



Sclerocrangon angusticauda (d. H.) Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. 533. 



Geographical distribution: Japan, (de Haan): Simoda and 

 Hakodati, sublitoral (Stimpson), Kadsiyama (Ortmann). 



9. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) munitus Dana, 1852. 



Crangon munitus Dana, U. S. Explor. Exped. Crust., 1852, p. 536, pi. 33, fig. 5. 

 Stimpson, Boston Jour. Nat. Hist., VI, 1S57, p. 497. Kiugsley, Bull. Essex 

 Inst. X. 1S78, p. 54. Lockington, ibid. p. 159. 



Geographical distribution: Puget Sound (Dana); Lower Cali- 

 fornia: Magdalena Bay (Lockington). 



Subgenus CRANGON. 



10a. Crangon crangon (Linnaeus), 1758. 



Cancer crangon Linnaeus, Syst. Xat., 10 ed., 1758, p. 032. 



Astacus crangon (L. ) Fabricius, Entoniol. Syst.. II. 1793, p. 486. 



Cancer ( Astacus) crangon L. Herbst, Krabb. a. Krebse, II, 1796, p. 75, pi. 29, 

 fig. 3,4. 



Crangon vulgaris Fabricius, Suppl. Ent. Syst. 1798, p. 410. Leach, Malac. 

 Podophth. Brit. 1815, pi. 37 B. Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust. II, 1837, 

 p. 341 and Atlas in Cuvier. Regn. Anim. pi. 51, tig. 1, (no date). Kroyer, 

 Naturh. Tidsskr., IV, 1842, p. 239, pi. 4, fig. 29-33. Bell, Brit. Crust. 1853, 

 p. 256. Kinahan, Proceed. R. I. Acad. Dublin, 1862, p. 68, 71, pi. 4. 

 Heller, Crust, siidl. Europ. 1*63. p. 226, pi. 7, fig. 89. Meinert, Naturh. 

 Tidsskr. (3) XI, 1877. p. 198. Kingsley. Bull. Essex Inst., X, 1878, p. 53. 

 Kingsley, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1878, p. 89, ibid. 1879, p. 

 411. Smith, Trans. Connecticut Acad. V, 1879, p. 55. Kingsley, Bull. Essex 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Inst. XIV, 1882, p. 129, pi. 1, fig. 5. Cams, Prodrom. faun, mediterr. I. 



1884, p. 482. Henderson, Decap. and Schizop. Crust. Firth of Clyde, 1886, 



p. 32. Bate, Challenger Macrur. 1888, p. 484. Ortmann, Zool. Jahrb. V, 



1890, p. 530. 

 Crangon rubropunctatns Eisso, Hist. Nat. Crust. Nice, 1816, p. 83. Eisso, 



Hist. Nat. Europ. merid. V, 1826, p. 65. 

 Crangon septemspinosus Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, I, 2, 1818, 



p. 246. Dekay, Zool. New York, Crust. 1844, p. 25, pi. 8, fig. 24. 

 Crangon maculosa s Eathke, Mem. Acad. St. Petersburg, Sav. etr., III. 1837, 



p'. 366. 



Geographical distribution: Northern circumpolar (?), but more 

 boreal than arctic, extending considerably southward. Northern 

 Atlantic: European coasts, northward to Iceland, and northeastern 

 coast of America, southward to Virginia and N. Carolina. Northern 

 Pacific: Japan, Yokosuka (Bate) and Bay of Tokio (Ortmann). 

 Litoral, very shallow water. 



10b. Crangon crangon affmis de Haan, 1849. 



Crangon vulgaris Owen, Crust. Zool. Beechey's Voy. Blossom, 1839, p. 87. 



Dana, U. S. Explor. Exped. Crust. 1852, p. 536. Murdoch, Eep. Pol. Exped. 



Point Barrow, 1885, p. 138. 

 Crangon affinis de Haan, Faun. Japon. Crust. Dec. 6,' 1849, p. 183. Bate, 



Challenger Macrur. 1888, p. 484, pi. 86, fig. 1-3. Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb. 



V, 1890, p. 531. 

 Crangon nigricauda Stimpson, Proceed. Calif. Acad. Sci., I, 2, 1856, p. 89. 



Stimpson, Boston Jour. Nat. Hist. VI, 1857, p. 490, pi. 22, fig. 6., Stimpson 



Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1860, p. 25. Kingsley, Bull. Essex 



Inst. X, 1878, p. 54. Lockington, ibid. p. 159. 

 Crangon propinquus Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1860, 



p. 25. 

 Crangon nigromaculata Lockington, Proceed. Calif. Acad. Sci., 111,1876, p. 



34. 

 Crangon alaskensis Lockington, ibid. 



Geographical distribution : Northern Pacific, somewhat deeper 

 water. Japan (de Haan): Kobe Bay and Inland Sea, 15-50 fath. 

 (Bate), Maizuru (Ortmann), northern Japan, 4-20 fath. (Stimp- 

 son); Alaska: Mutiny Bay (Lockington), Norton Sound, 5 fath. 

 (Murdoch); Puget Sound (Dana); Mouth of Columbia river 

 (Stimpson); California, in deeper water than Or. franciscorum 

 (Stimpson): Tomales Bay (Stimpson), San Francisco (Dana, Stimp- 

 son), Monterey (Owen), San Diego (Lockington). 



10c. Crangon crangon allmanni Kinahan, 1862. 



Crangon allmanni Kinahan, Proceed. E. I. Acad., Dublin, VIII, 1S62, pp. 68, 

 71, pi. 4. Kinahan, Trans. E. I. Acad. Vol. 24, 1871, p. 64. Metzger, 

 Jahresber. Commiss. TJnters. deutsch. Meere. II, III, 1875, p. 290. Meinert, 

 Naturh. Tidsskr. (3) XI, 1877, p. 198. G. O. Sars, Arch. Math. Naturv. 

 II, 1877, p. 339. G. O. Sars, Christiania Vid. Selsk. Forh. 1882, p. 44. G. 

 O. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordh. Exp., Zool., Crust II, 1886, p. 6. Henderson, 

 Decap. Schiz. Crust. Firth of Clyde, 1886, p. 33. Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb. 

 V. 1890, p. 532. Scott, Annal. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6) XIII, 1894, p. 413. 



Geographical distribution,: Northern Europe, somewhat deeper 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



water. England and Ireland (Kinahan); Scotland, 24-69 lath. 

 (Metzger); Shetland Isl. (Kinahan); North Sea, 9-20 lath. 

 (Metzger, Scott) ; Skagerrak and Kattegat, 6-49 fath. (Metzger, 

 Meinert); Norway (G. O. Sars); Iceland, 20-30 fath. (G. O. 



Sars). 



11. Crangon franciscorum Stimpson, 1856. 



Stimpson, Proceed. Calif. Acad. Sci., I, 2, 1856. 89. Stimpson, Boston Journ. 

 Nat. Hist. VI, 1857, p. 495, pi. 22, fig. 5. Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., Philadelphia, I860, p. 25. Kingsley, Bull. Essex Inst. X, 1878, p. 54. 



Geographical distribution: W. coast of N. America, shallow 

 water. Puget Sound, Shoal water Bay, Tomales Bay, San Fran- 

 cisco, Monterey (Stimpson). 



12. Crangon antarcticusPfeffer, 1887. 



Pfeffer, Naturh. Mus. Jahrb., Hamburg, wiss. Anstalt. IV. 1887, p. 45, pi. 1, 

 fig. 1-21. 



Geographical distribution : South Georgia, (Pfeffer). 



13. Crangon capensis Stimpson, 1860. 



Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1860, p. 24. 



Geographical distribution : Cape of Good Hope, Simons Bay, 12 

 fath. (Stimpson). 



NECTOCEANGON Brandt, 1837. 



Argis Kroyer, Naturh. Tidsskr, IV, 1842, p. 267 (nomen prseoccupatum). 

 Nectocrangon Brandt, Krebse in: Middendorff's Siber. Beis. II, Zool. I, 1851, 

 p. 114. Kingsley, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1879, p. 412. 



Second pereiopoda not shortened, with chela. Five branchiae, like 

 Crangon. Eyes partly concealed by the frontal margin. Posterior 

 pereiopoda with lanceolate dactyli with fringes of hair. 



a : . Behind the rostrum two spines in the median line of carapace. 

 N. lar (4). 



a 2 . Behind the rostrum three well developed spines in the median line 

 of carapace, between the rostrum and the first spine a rudimentary 

 one " N. alaskensis (1). 



1. Nectocrangon lar (Owen) 1839. 



Crangon lar Owen, Zool. Beechey's Voy. Blossom, 1839, p. 88, pi. 28, fig. 1. 



Argis lar (Ow. ) Kroyer, Naturh. Tidsskr. IV, 1S42, p. 255, pi. 5. fig. 45-62. 



Nectocrangon lar (Ow. ) Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 1860, p. 25. Stimpson, Annal. Lye. New York, X, 1874, p. 125. Kingsley, 

 Bull. Essex lust. X, 1878, p. 55. Smith, Trans. Connect. Acad. V, 1879, 

 p. 61. Murdoch, Rep. Pol. Exped. Point Barrow, 1885, p. 139. 



Geographical distribution: Northern circumpolar. — Arctic Ocean 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



(Owen, Stimpson); Northern Alaska: Point Barrow (Murdoch); 

 Bering Strait : Avatska Bay, 10-20 fath. (Stimpson); Greenland: 

 Godthaab (Kroyer); Labrador, (Smith); Gulf of St. Lawrence 

 (Smith); New Foimdland : St. Johns (Stimpson); Nova Scotia, 59 

 fath. ; Halifax, 26-52 fath. (Smith). 



2. Nectocrangon alaskensis Kingsley, 1882. 

 Kingsley, Bull. Essex Inst. XIV, 1882, p. 128. 



Geographical distribution: Alaska, Kodiac Arch.: Marmot 

 Island (Kingsley). 



PONTOPHILUS Leach, 1815. 



PontophiluM Leach, Melacostr. Podophth. Brit. 1815, pi. ?u A. 



Egeon Kisso (pr. part.) Hist. Nat. Europe merid., V. 1820, p. 58. 



Cheraphilus and Aegeon Kinahan, Proceed. B. I. Acad., Dublin, VIII, 1862, 



p. 68, 69. 



Second periopoda shortened, carpal joint and hand together not 

 longer than merus, chelae present. Eyes present, free. Gills seven 

 on each side: six pleurobranchise (i. k. 1. m. n. o. ) and one (rudi- 

 mentary) podobrauchia (h. ). 



a,. Median keel of carapace with more than three spines. Seven 

 keels on the carapace, with numerous teeth. Abdomen strongly 

 sculptured. 



&,. Rostrum emarginate P. cataphractus (4). 



b... Rostrum acute, with lateral teeth P. bengalensis, 



P. andamanensis. 8 

 a 2 . Median keel of carapace with three spines. Abdomen smooth or 

 only the posterior segments with longitudinal keels. 

 &,. Carapace with more than two lateral spines. Abdominal seg- 

 ments with distinct keels. 

 c x Three denticulate lateral keels on each side. Fifth segment of 

 abdomen with a keel. Rostrum acute, simple . P. echinutatus. 

 c 2 . Two lateral keels on each side, the upper with three, the lower 

 with two spines. Third and fourth segment of abdomen witb 

 a simple keel, fifth with four, sixth with two keels. Rostrum 



with lateral teeth P. spinosus (3). 



(%. Two lateral keels, the upper with two, the lower with one 

 spine. 

 d x . Sixth segment of abdomen with a double keel. Rostrum 



without lateral teeth P. norvegicus (-i). 



d 2 . Fifth segment of abdomen with four, sixth with two keels. 

 Rostrum with lateral teeth P. brevirostris. 



11 I am not sure whether these two species (bengalensis and andamanensis) 

 really belong to Pontophilus. < 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



6 2 - Carapace with two lateral spines and a third very small one be- 

 hind the supraorbital fissure. Rostrum with two minute lateral 

 teeth on each side. Abdomen smooth. Eyes colorless . P. abyss/. 



P. Occident alls. 

 & 3 . Carapace with two indistinct lateral keels, each with a spine. 

 Sixth and seventb segments of abdomen feebly furrowed. Ros- 

 trum acute, with a lateral tooth on each side . J*, challengeri (2). 

 b t . Carapace with one lateral spine and a series of small spinules. 

 Fifth segment of abdomen sculptured, sixth and seventh fur- 

 rowed. Rostrum obtuse P. pattersoni. 



a 3 . Median keel of carapace with two spines. 

 b x . Abdomen strongly longitudinally and transversely sculptured. 

 Carapace with a two-spined median keel, and two many-spined 

 lateral ones on each side. Rostrum emarginate ... P. sculptus. 

 &.,. Abdomen smooth or only with a few longitudinal Keels, 

 c,. Carapace with distinct and denticulate lateral keels. 

 d\. Three lateral keels, the upper with two, the lower with one, 

 the middle without teeth. Rostrum truncate . P. bidentatw. 

 d... Two lateral keels, the upper with five, the lower with three 



teeth P. australis. 



c 2 . Carapace .with two lateral spines. Rostrum acute, slender. 

 Abdomen without keels. 



d x . Rostrum without lateral teeth P. junceus. 



d.,. Rostrum with one lateral tooth on each side. Spines of the 



lateral faces of carapace in an oblique plane . . . P. gracilis. 



d 3 . Rostrum with two lateral teeth on each side. Spines of the 



lateral faces of carapace in the same level . . . P. profundus. 



c 3 . Carapace without lateral spines and without distinct keels. 



Rostrum short, obtuse, fifth and sixth segments of abdomen 



with two longitudinal keels P. bisjtinosus (1). 



« 4 . Median keel of carapace with one spine. Abdomen smooth. 

 6,. Carapace with three lateral spines and a longitudinal series of 



small spinules P. intermedins. 



b 2 . Carapace with one spine on each side . . . . P. trispinosus (1). 

 6 3 . Carapace without lateral spines. 

 Cj. Rostrum broadly truncate. Telson furrowed . P.fasciatus (5). 

 c 2 . Rostrum short, obtuse. Telson rounded dorsally. 



P. negleetus. 



a b . Median line of carapace without spines. Carapace with seven 

 keels, keels smooth, the upper and lower lateral keel with a spine 

 each. Abdomen sculptured by transverse furrows. .P. carinicauda. 

 1. Pontophilus cataphractus (Olivi) 1792. 10 



Cancer cataphractus Olivi, Zool. Adriat., 1792, p. 50, pi. 3, fig. 1. 



10 Recently there has been described a species by Henderson (Trans. Linn. 

 Soc. London, Zool. (2) V. part Id, 1893, p. 446, pi. 40, fig. 16, 17) from the Bur- 

 mese coast named Aegeon orientalis, which is said to be nearly related to the 

 Mediterranean P. cataphraclas. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Egeon loricatus Risso, Hist. Nat. Europ. mend.. V. 1826, p. r>s. 



Crangon cataphractus (Oliv.) Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., II, 1837, p. 



343, and Atlas in Cuvier, Eegn, anini. pi. 51, fig. 3 (no date). Heller, 



Crust, siidl. Europ., 1863, p. 230, pi. 7, fig. 12-15. Miers, Annal. Mag. 



Nat. Hist. (5) VIII, 1881, p. 365. Carus, Prodrom. faun, medit,, I, 1884, p. 



482. 

 Aegeon cataphractus (Oliv.) Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. 535. 



Geographical distribution: Mediterranean Sea (Kisso, Milne- Ed- 

 wards, Heller, Carus); Senegambia (Miers). 



2. Pontophilus bengalensis (Wood-Mason and Alcock) 1891. 



Crangon bengalensis Wood-Mason and Alcock, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6) 

 VIII, 1891, p. 360. Alcock and Anderson, Journ. Asiat. Soc. Bengal, vol. 

 63, 2, 1894, p. 152. 



Geographical distribution: Indian Seas, 107-276 fath. (Wood- 

 Mason, Alcofck, Anderson). 



3. Pontophilus andamanensis (Wood- Mason and Alcock) 1891. 

 Crangon andamanensis Wood-Mason and Alcock, ibid. 



Geographical distribution: Indian Seas, 188-220 fath. (Wood- 

 Mason and Alcock). 



* 



4. Pontophilus echinulatus (M. Sars) 1861. 



Crangon echinulatus M. Sars, Forh. Vid. Selsk., Christiana, 1861, p. 29, pi. 3, 



fig. 48-64. G. O. Sars, Arch. Math. Naturv., II, 1877, p. 339. Henderson, 



Decap. Schiz. Firth of Clyde, 1886, p. 33. 

 Crangon serratus Norman. Eep. Brit. Assoc, 31 meet., 1862, p. 151. Norman, 



ibid., 38 meet., 1869, p. 265. 

 Cheraphilus echinulatus (M. Sars). G. O. Sars, Forh. Vid. Selsk., Christiana, 



1887, No. 18, p. 44. G. O. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordh. Exped., Zool., Crust., 



II, 1886, p. 7. 



Geographical distribution : Norway, 80-150 fath. (M. Sars, G. 



0. Sars); Shetland Islands (Norman); Scotland: Loch Fyne, 105 

 fath. (Henderson). 



5. Pontophilus spinosus Leach, 1815. 



Tontophilus spinosus Leach, Malacostr. Podophth. Brit., 1815, pi. 37, A. 

 Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. 534. 



Crangon catapractus Milne-Edwards. Hist. Nat. Crust,, II, 1S37. p. 313 (pro 

 parte). 



Crangon spinosus (Lch.). Bell, Brit. Crust., 1853, p. 261. Heller, Crust, 

 siidl. Europ., 1863, p. 229, pi. 7, fig. 16. Carus. Prodrom. faun, medit,, I, 

 1884, p. 482. Henderson, Decap. Schiz. Firth of Clyde, 1S86, p. 32. 



Geographical distribution : European Seas. — From Norway and 

 Sweden to the Mediterranean Sea, to about fifty fath. (see Ortmann, 



1. a). 



6. Pontophilus norvegicus (M. Sars) 1861. 



Crangon norvegicus M. Sars, Forh. Vid. Selsk., Christiania, 1861, p. 183. 



M. Sars, Nyt. Magaz. f. Naturvid. 1861, p. 248. does, Ot'v. K. Vet. Akad. 

 Forh., 1863, p. 173. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Pontophilus norvegicus (M. S. ) Meinert, Naturh. Tidsskr. (3) XI, 1877, p. 

 200. Smith, Trans Connects. Acad., V, 1879, p. 60. G. O. Sars, Forh. 

 Vid. Selsk., Christiana, 1882, No. 18, p. 7. Smith, Bull. Mas. Compar. Zool., 

 Cambridge, X, 1882, p. 34. G. O. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordh. Exp. Zool. 

 Crust., II, 1886, p. 7. Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890. p. 534. 



Geographical distribution : Northern Atlantic. — Sweden: Bolms- 

 lan (Goes); Skagerrak, 320 fath. (Meinert); Norway, 30-500 fath. 

 (M. Sars, G. O. Sars); Spitzbergen Sea (G. O. Sars); N. E. coast 

 of America: Nova Scotia, 101-110 fath., Gulf of Maine, 115 fath., 

 off Cape Cod, 105-524 fath. (Smith). 



7. Pontophilus brevirostris Smith, 1881. 



Smith, Proceed. U. S. Nation. Mas., Ill, 1881, p. 435. Smith, Bull. Mus. Corn- 

 par. Zool. X, 1882, p. 35, pi. 7. fig. 1. Smith, Eep. U. S. Fish Com. for 1882- 

 1884, p. 362. 



Geograjihiad distribution : Atlantic, eastern coast of United States, 

 51-155 fath. (Smith). 



8. Pontophilus abyssi Smith, 1884. 



Smith, Eep. U. S. Fish Com. for 1882-1884, p. 363. Wood-Mason and Alcock, 

 Annal. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6) VIII, 1891, p. 361. 



Geographical distribution: Atlantic, off the coast of United 

 States, 37° N. Lat., 70° W. Long., 1917-2221 fath. (Smith); Bay 

 of Bengal, 1748-1997 fath. (Wood-Mason and Alcock). 



9. Pontophilus occidentalis Faxon, 1893. 



Faxon, Bull. Mus. Compar. Zool., XXIV, 1893, p. 200. 



Geographical distribution: Off the western coast of Central 

 America, 978-2232 fath. (Faxon). 



10. Pontophilus challengeri Ortmann, 1893. 



Pontophilus gracilis Bate, Challenger Macrur., 1888, p. 487, pi. 87 (nomen 



pneoccupatum). 

 Pontophilus batei Faxon, Bull. Mus. Compar. Zool., XXIV, August, 1893, p. 



200, footnote (nomen prseoccupatum). 

 Pontophilus challengeri ''Ortniann, Decapod. Schizop. Plankton Exped., 1893, 



(September) p. 49. 



Geographical distribution : Atlantic, near Tristan da Cunha, 1900 

 fath. (Bate) ; Cape Verde Islands, ca. 2700 fath. (Ortmann); Pacific: 

 New Zealand, 1100 fath. (Bate); near Torres Strait, 1400 fath. 

 (Bate); near Philippine Islands, 2150 fath. (Bate). 



11. Pontiphilus pattersoni (Kinahan) 1862. 



Cheraphilus pattersoni Kinahan, Proceed. E. I. Acad., Dublin, VIII, 1862, 

 p. 69, 73, pi. 7. 



Geographical distribution : Northern England and Ireland 



(Kinahan). 



1 Q 

 1'J 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



12. PontopMlus sculptus (Bell) 1853. 



Crangon sculptus Bell, Hist. Brit. Crust., 1853, p. 263 (fig.). Henderson, 

 Decapod. Schizop., Firth of Clyde, 1886, p. 32. 



Geographical distribution England : Weymouth (Bell), Firth of 

 Clyde, 20 fath. (Henderson). 



13. Pontophilus bidentatus (de Haan) 1849. 



Cranzon bidentatus de Haan, Faun. Japon. Crust., Dec. 6, 1849, p. 1S3, pi. 44, 

 fig. 14. 



Geographical distribution: Japan (de Haan). 



14. Pontophilus australis (Thomson) 1878. 



Crangon australis Thomson, Trans. Proceed. New Zealand Inst., XI, 1878, 

 p'. 231, pi. 10, fig. A. 1. Filhol, Passage Venus., Miss. Campbell, III, 2, 1885, 

 p. 430. 



Geographical distribution: New Zealand : Cook Straits, Dunedin, 

 Stewart Isl. (Thomson), from Napier to Stewart Isl. (Filhol). 



15. Pontophilus junceus Bate, 1888. 



Bate, Challenger Macrur. 18S8, p. 491, pi. 88, fig. 2-4. 



Geographical distribution: Between Philippine Islands and 

 Borneo, 250 fath. (Bate.) 



16. Pontophilus gracilis Smith, 1882. 



Smith, Bull. Mus. Comparative Zool., X, 1882, p. 36, pi. 7, fig. 2-3. Wood- 

 Mason andAlcock, Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist. (0) VIII, 1891, p. 361. 



Geographical distribution : Atlantic, eastern coast of United 

 States, 225-458 fath. (Smith); Bay of Bengal, 561-683 fath. 

 (Wood- Mason and Alcock). 



17. Pontophilus profundus Bate, 1888. 



Bate, Challenger Macrur. 1888, p. 490, pi. 88, fig. 1. 



Geographical distribution: Off Sydney, 2600 fath. (Bate). 



18. Pontophilus bispinosus Hailstone, 1835. 



Pontophilus bispinosus Hailstone (nee Westwood), Mag. Nat. Hist., VIII, 



1835, p. 271, fig. 30. 

 Crangon nanus Kroyer, Naturh. Tidsskr., IV, 1812. p. 231, pi. 4, fig. 15-28. 



Metzger, Jahresber. Comm. Unters. Deutsch. Meer., II, III, 1875, p. 201. 



Meinert. Naturh. Tidsskr. (3) XI, 1877, p. 199. Henderson, Decap. Schiz. 



Firth of Clyde, 1886, p. 33. Scott, Anual. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6) XIII, 1894, 



p. 413. 

 Crangon bispinosus (Hailst. ) Bell, Brit. Crust., 1853, p. 268. 

 Cheraphilus bispinosus (Hailst.) Kinahan, Proceed. R. I. Acad., Dublin, 



VI 11, 1S62, p. 68, 72, pi. 5. 



Geographical distribution: Northern Europe. — Sund (Meinert); 

 Kattegat (Kroyer); Skagerrak, 10-110 fath. (Meinert); Norway (G. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



O.Sars); North Sea (Metzger, Scott); England (Bell, Kinahan, Hen- 

 derson). 



19. Pontophilus intermedius (Bate) 1863. 



Crangon intermedius Bate, Proceed. Zool. Soc., London, 1863, p. 503, pi. 41, 



fig. 6. llaswell, Catal. Austral. Crust., 1882, p. 181. 

 Crangon batei Kingsley, Bull. Essex lust., 14, 1882, p. 129. 



Geographical distribution: Australia, Gulf St. Vincent (Bate). 



20. Pontophilus trispinosus Hailstone, 1835. 



Pontophilus trispinosus Hailstone, Mag. Nat. Hist., VIII, 1S35, p. 261, fig. 



25. Ortmann, Zoolog. Jabrb., IV, 1890, p. 533. 

 Crangon trispinosus (Hailst. ) Bell, Brit. Crust-, 1853, p. 265. Metzger, 



Jabresb. Comm. Unters. Deutscb. Meer., II, III, 1875, p. 291. Carus, Pro- 



drom. faun. Medit., I, 1884, p. 482. 

 Cheraphilus trispinosus (Hailst.) Kinahan, Proceed. R.I. Acad., Dublin, 



VIII, 1862, p. 69, 72, pi. 6. 



Geographical distribution: North Sea, 10-22 fath. (Metzger); 

 England and Ireland (Kinahan); Marseille (Gourret); Azores 

 (Barrois). 



21. Pontophilus fasciatus (Eisso) 1816. 



Crangon fasciatus Risso, Hist. Nat. Crust., Nice, 1816, p. 82, pi. 3, fig. 5. 



Eisso, Hist. Nat. Europ. merid., V, 1826, p. 64. Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. 



Crust,, II, 1837, p. 342. Bell. Lrit. Crust., 1853, p. 259. Heller, 



Crust, siidl. Europ., 1863, p. 228, pi. 7, fig. 10. Carus, Prodrom. faun. 



Medit,, 1, 1884, p. 483. Norman, Annal. Magaz. Nat. Hist. (5) XIX, 1887, 



p. 90. 

 Aegeon fasciatus (Riss. ) Kinahan, Proceed. E. I. Acad., Dublin, VIII, 1862, 



p. 69, 74, pi. 9. Ortmann. Zoolog. Jabrb., IV, 1890, p. 535. 



Geographical distribution: European Seas (Northern Europe, 

 Mediterranean Sea) and Azores. (See Ortmann, 1. c. ). 



22. Pontophilus neglectus (G. O. Sars) 1882. 



Cheraphilus neglectus G. O. Sars, Forh. Vid. Selsk., ChiAstiania, 1882, No. 18, 

 p. 45, PI. 1, fig. 7. G. O. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordh. Exp., Zool., Crust., II, 

 1886, p. 6. 



Geographical distribution : Norway, 2-6 fath. (G. O. Sars). 



23. Pontophilus carinicauda (Stimpson) 1S60. 



Crangon carinicauda Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1860, 

 p. 25. 



Geographical distribution: Hong Koug (Stimpson). 



SABINEA Owen, 1835. 



Owen, Append. Voy. Capt. Ross, 1835, p. 82. Kingsley, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Philadelphia, 1879, p. 412. 



Second pereiopoda very short, without chela. Gills seven, like 

 Pontophilus, or five pleurobranchise and two arthrobranchne (see 

 Smith, Sabinea hystrix). Eyes present, free. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



a,. Rostrum short, scarcely longer than the eyes. 



bj. Rostrum and telson blunt &\ septemcarinata (6). 



b,. Rostrum and telson more acute S. sarsi. 



a 2 . Rostrum long, about as long as the antennale scale . . S. hystrix. 



1. Sabinea septemcarinata (Sabine), 1824. 



Crangon septemcarinatus Sabine, Suppl. Append. Parry's Voy. 1824, p. 236, 



pi. 2, tig. 11-13. Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust. II, 1837, p. 343. 

 Sabinea septemcarinata (Sab.) Kroyer, Naturh. Tidsskr. IV, 1842, p. 244, pi. 



4, fig. 34-40, pi. 5, fig. 41-44. Metzger, Jahresb. Comm. TJnters. deutsch. 



Meer. II, III, 1875, p. 291. Miers, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (4) XX, 1877, p. 



58. Kingsley, Bull. Essex Inst. X. 1878, p. 55. Smith, Trans. Connect. 



Acad., V, 1879, p. 57, pi. 11, tig. 5, 9. 13. Hoek, Niederl. Arch. Zoo'l., Suppl. 



I, 7, Crust. 1882, p. 12. G. O. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordh. Exp. Zool. Crust. 



II, 1886, p. 7. Stuxberg, Vega Exped., V, 1887, p. 54. Bate, Challenger 

 Macrur. 1888, p. 493, pi. 89, fig. 2, pi. 90, fig. 1. Ortmann. Zoolog. Jahrb., 

 V, 1890, p. 536. 



Geographical distribution : Arctic seas extending southward into 

 boreal seas. — Norway, to 106 fath. (M. Sars, Metzger); Barents 

 Sea aud Nowaja Semlja, 37-160 fath. (Hoek); Spitzbergen (Kroyer, 

 G. O. Sars); Iceland (Kroyer); Greenland (Reinhardt, Liitten); 

 Davis Strait (Sabine); Grinnell Land (Miers); N. E. coast of 

 America: from Gulf of St. Lawrence to Massachusetts Bay, 25-85 

 fath. (Smith, Bate); Arctic coast of Siberia (Stimpson, Stuxberg). 



2. Sabinea sarsi Smith, 1879. 



Smith, Trans. Connect. Acad., V, 1879, p. 59, pi. 11, fig. 6, 7, 8. G. O. Sars, 

 Forh. Vidensk. Selsk. Christiania, 1882, No. 18, p. 46. Smith, Eep. U. S. 

 Fish Comm. f. 1882, 1884, p. 364. 



Geographical distribution: Northeastern coast of America, 60-150 

 fath. (Smith); Norway: Lofoten (Smith), Christianssund and 

 Stavanger (G. O. Sars). 



3. Sabinea hystrix* A. Milne-Edwards), 1881. 



Paracrangon hystrix A Milne-Edwards, Annal. Sci. Natur. (6) Zool. XI, 



1881, p. 6. 

 Sabinea princeps Smith, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. X, 1882, p. 38, pi. 8, fig. 1. 

 Smith, Rep. TJ. S. Fish Comm. f. 1882, 1884, p. 364. 



Geographical distribution : Atlantic: eastern coast of United States, 

 464-888 fath. (Smith); Guadeloupe, 734 fath. (A. Milne- 

 Edwards). 



PRI0N0CRANG0N Wood-Mason and Alcock, 1891. 

 Wood-Mason and Alcock, Annal. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6) VIII, 1891, p. 361. 

 Second pereiopoda present, without chela, rather robust with a 

 fringe of long hairs. Eyes and eye-stalks wanting. Carapace with 

 a spiny median keel. — Gills unknown. 

 Only one species known. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



1. Prionocrangon ommatosteres Wood-Mason and Alcock, 1891. 



Wood-Mason and Alcock 1. c. p. 362. Alcock and Anderson. Jour. Asiat. Soc. 

 Bengal, Vol. 63. 2. 1894, p. 152. 



Geographical distribution : Bay of Bengal, 200-405 fath. (Wood- 

 Mason, Alcock, and Anderson). 



PARACRANGON Dana, 1852. 



Dana, U. S. Explor. Exped. Crust. 1852, p. 537. Kingsley, Proceed. Acad. 

 Nat Sci., Philadelphia, 1879, p. 412. 



Second pereiopoda wanting. Eyes present, free. Carapace with 

 long spines. — Gills unknown. 



aj. Branchial regions not areolate, five — spinous . . P. eehinatus. 



a 2 . Brauchial regions traversed by anastomosing ridges, dividing 

 these regions into cells of different sizes; they are armed with three 

 small spines P. areolatus. 



1. Paracrangon eehinatus Dana, 1852. 



Dana, TJ. S. Explor. Exped. Crust. 1853, p. 538, pi. 33, fig. 6. Stimpson, Boston 

 Jour. Nat. Hist. VI, 1857, p. 497. Kingsley, Bull. Essex Instit. X, 1878, 

 p. 55. 



Geographical distribution: W. coast of North America: Puget 



Sound, Oregon (Dana). 



2. Paracrangon areolatus Faxon, 1893. 



Paracrangon arcolata Faxon, Bull. Mus. Couip. Zool. XXIV, 1893, p. 200. 



Geographical distribution : Western coast of Mexico: Tres Marias 

 Islands, 676-680 fath. (Faxon). 



Considerations concerning the geographical distribution of the 



Crangoiiidn . 



The geographical distribution of the Crangoiida shows that only 

 one genus, Pontocaris, no doubt the most primitive, is a true inhab- 

 itant of the lesser depths of the tropics, the two species known being 

 found in 49 and 140 fathoms in the Indo- Malaysian seas. All the 

 other genera are partly confined to the seas of temperate or cold 

 climates, partly there is the main range, and only a few species are 

 present in the litoral of warmer climates. Pontocarix, I believe, 

 must be regarded as a survival in the tropics, and its occurrence in 

 somewhat deeper water, but within the limits of the litoral, shows 

 already the tendency to descend into greater depths developed in 

 many species of the other Crangonidce. None of the other species 

 present in the tropical parts of the world can be regarded as sur- 

 vivals ; they immigrated thither from the more northern localities. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The main range of the genus Crangon comprises the cooler seas of 

 the northern hemisphere both in the Atlantic and Pacific. There 

 are three species showing a true circumpolar distribution: Or. 

 salebrosus, boreas and crangon. The two first named must be 

 regarded as true arctic animals, extending southward, it is true, in 

 more temperate climates, but preferring considerable depths, from 

 about 100 to 400 fathoms. Crangon crangon lives in very shal- 

 low water, extending not as far northward as Or. salebrosus and 

 bonus, and a connection between the Atlantic and Pacific (Japanese) 

 localities is not known. Perhaps such a connection was only present 

 in former times, and this species can not be counted among 

 the circumpolar ones, but is a survival of a formerly more 

 extended distribution. The two varieties of Crangon crangon 

 described above prefer deeper water, 50 and 60 fathoms, and they 

 are restricted to one of the northern parts of the two great 

 oceans, affinis being found in the northern Pacific from Japan to 

 California, allmanni in northern Europe. Of the other species of 

 Crangon eight show a distribution similar to the two last varieties. 

 Five are litoral and restricted to the northern part of the Pacific, 

 especially Or. sharpi and intermedins to the most northern parts 

 (Berings Sea and Alaska), Cr. angusticauda to Japan, and Or. 

 in a n it us and franciscorum to the western coast of United States. 

 The latter replaces the typical Or. crangon on this coast. A 

 sixth species, Or. agassizi, is found in the Atlantic near the eastern 

 coast of United States, and must be regarded as a true deep sea 

 animal, being recorded from about 200 to 900 fathoms. It is 

 replaced on the western side of America by a nearly allied abyssal 

 species, Or. procax, 660-900 fathoms. On the western coast of 

 Central America is found a second abyssal species, Or. atrox, between 

 600 and 700 fathoms, being closely related to the northern circum- 

 polar Or. salebrosus. The presence of these three abyssal species on 

 both sides of the American continent indicate a relation to the 

 northern circumpolar seas, according to their affinities with the north- 

 ern circumpolar species of the subgenus Sclerocravgon, but I do not 

 believe that this demonstrates the connection of the western and 

 eastern American seas in the tertiary period within the litoral, as 

 held to-day generally by authors. 



Finally there are two antarctic species: Cr. ,capensis from the Cape 

 of Good Hope, and Cr. antarctieus from South Georgia. The latter 






1895.] NATURAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



is regarded by Pfeffer 11 as a proof of the bipolar distribution of 

 Orangon. I have doubted the correctness of Pfeffer's opinion in 

 this view, 12 and have pointed out that the examples of bipolar 

 distribution of Crustacea enumerated by him do not correspond exactly 

 to the facts known, except in the case of Or. antarcticus. But 

 neither in this species, is, I believe, a bi polarity of the genus 

 probable. Or. antarcticus is the nearest allied to Or. franeiscorum 

 and this fact induces me to suppose that a connection between the 

 northern and southern range of Orangon is present along the west 

 coast of America from California to Chili, and in the same manner, 

 I believe, there is a connection from the European seas along the 

 western coast of Africa to the Cape of Good Hope, the locality of 

 Or. capensis. Literal species of Orangon have not yet been recorded 

 from the western coasts of America and Africa, but I hope that 

 further investigation will demonstrate the presence of this genus in 

 both localities, and thus strengthen my theory. 



Supposing my theory to be correct, the range of Orangon 

 would be a northern circumpolar one, partly containing circum- 

 polar species, partly species confined to the northern parts either 

 of Pacific or of Atlantic. Some species descended into the deep 

 sea to a depth of about 900 fathoms and -could propagate more 

 southward. Along the west coasts of Africa and America, owing 

 to the cooler temperature of the seas on these coasts, the range of 

 Orangon could extend to the southern hemisphere, crossing the 

 tropics. 



The range of the genus Neetocrangon, the nearest allied of Orangon, 

 agrees wholly with that of the northern species of Orangon: one 

 species, Neetocrangon lar, is a true arctic-circumpolar one extending 

 very little southward (the most southern locality recorded is Nova 

 Scotia), the other, Neetocrangon alaskensis, is restricted, as we know, 

 at present to Alaska. 



The genus Pontophilus, the first of the series, representing the second 

 branch of development arising from Pontocaris, has a nearly cosmo- 

 politan horizontal distribution, but the several species are wholly dif- 

 ferent from each other. The greatest number of species, like Orangon, 

 is found in the litoral of the cooler seas of the northern hemisphere, 



11 Pfeffer, Die niedere Thierwelt des antarctischeii Ufergehietes. — Internat. 

 Polarf. Deutsch. Exped. 11,1890, p. 520-572. 



12 Ortmaim, Jenaisclie Denkschriften, VIII, 1894, p. 77. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



but their range does not extend very far northward. Accordingly, 

 arctic circumpolar species are not known, the northern literal species 

 being restricted to comparatively narrow districts, each to one side of 

 the great oceans. Only one species, P. norvegicus, in the northern 

 Atlantic, is found on both the European and American shores. 

 Eight species are found in the European seas: P. echinulatus, 

 spinosus, pattersoni, sculptus, bispinosus, trispinosus, fasciatus, 

 neglectus; one on the east coast of United States : P. brevirostris. As 

 the cooler waters of the western African coast allow a more south- 

 ward extension, a mediterranean specie's, P. cataphractus, ranges 

 southward to the Senegambia. In the Pacific northern species 

 are not known, but two having a more southward range: P. 

 bidentatus in Japan, P. carinicauda in China. The presence of the 

 latter in the tropics is due, I believe, to a more recent immigration. 

 Of the northern litoral species some show a very large bathymetri- 

 cal range, descending to considerable depths, especially P. echinu- 

 latus, brevirostris to 150 fathoms, P. norvegicus to 500 fathoms. The 

 next to the latter species, as regards the depth inhabited, are P. 

 bengalensis, andamanensis, junceus, being found in the tropical seas 

 of India and Indo-Malaysia in depths of about 100 to 300 fathoms, 

 and, farther, five species are true deep sea animals. One of these, 

 P. profundus, is only found near Sydney in 2,600 fathoms, another, 

 P. occidentalis, off the west coast of Central America in 900-2,200 

 fathoms. The three others show the characteristic wide range of the 

 true abyssal animals, Pont, gracilis being found in the Atlantic and 

 Indian oceans from 200 to 700 fathoms, P. abyssi in the North 

 Atlantic and Indian oceans from 1700 to 2,200 fathoms, and P. 

 ch alien geri in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans from 1,100 to 2,700 

 fathoms. Lastly, two litoral species are known from the cooler seas 

 of the southern hemisphere: P. australis from New Zealand, and P. 

 intermedins from Southern Australia. 



The horizontal and vertical range of Pontophilus may be sum- 

 marized as follows: The main distribution of the genus is in the 

 litoral of the northern hemisphere, especially in the temperate seas, 

 a circumpolar rangeof none of the species is proven; a few litoral 

 species extend more southward. A great number of species have 

 a tendency to descend into deeper water, and, accordingly, sonic 

 species are found in the deeper water even of the tropics, and have 

 occupied a large area of the deep sea. In the cooler parts of the 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



southern hemisphere is given the possibility to re-ascend into the 

 litoral, and two litoral species are, in fact, found in Australia and 

 New Zealand. 



The genus Sabinea contains two northern species, one of which, S. 

 septemearinata, is a true arctic circumpolar one, the other, S. sarsi, 

 is found on both sides of the northern Atlantic. Both descend into 

 greater depths, to about 150 fathoms. The third species, S. hystrix, 

 is an abyssal one, found in 400 to nearly 900 fathoms, and its range 

 extends more southward, from the eastern coast of United States to 

 Guadeloupe in the West Indies. 



The two known species of the most extreme genus of the second 

 branch of Crangonidre, Paracrangon, live on the western coasts of 

 America, probably in greater depths; at least P. areolatus is recorded 

 from over 600 fathoms. 



The last genus, Prionocrangon, is very peculiar and its affinities 

 are not certainly known. It probably is allied to Pontophilus, and 

 then its habitat, in the deep sea of the Indian ocean, 200-400 

 fathoms, would not be strange, since Pontophilus contains also 

 tropical species living in deeper water. 



The distribution of Crangonidce may be thus summarized: 

 The "regions of life" 13 in which Crangonidse are found, are the 

 litoral and the abyssal. Regarding the "fades," 14 the Crangoniclre 

 are principally, as we know, benthonic 15 in sand and mud. These 

 habits admit a universal distribution of the family, but the genera 

 and species are more restricted. 



The litoral species especially are not cosmopolitan, but are con- 

 fined by barriers. Except the tropical genus Pontocaris,, which 

 must be regarded as a survival, the litoral Crangonidse are almost 

 exclusively limited to the northern hemisphere, and the seas of 

 tropical temperature must be considered as the climatic barrier pre- 

 venting the distribution of Crangonidie southward. Only a few 

 species are adapted to the warmer seas, especially Crangon catapkractus 

 in Senegambia and Pontophilus carinicauda in China, Generally, 

 the Crangonida3, originating in the cooler northern hemisphere, were 



13 "Lebensbezirke," J. Walther, Bionomie des Meeres, 1893, p. 13-15, p. 87- 

 176. — Walther does not give a satisfactory and correct definition of* this word, on 

 account of wbicb his detailed discussion concerning this term is wholly out of 

 place. Notwithstanding, the idea of '" regions of life " is a very good one. 



14 Walther, ibid. p. 25-34. 



15 See Haeckel, Planktonstudien, 1890, p. 18ff. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



separated from the cooler parts of the southern by the broad belt of 

 the warm circumtropical seas. This zone, however, is not a con- 

 tinuous one, but is interrupted within the litoral on two tracts, on the 

 western coasts of Africa and America. At these two localities there 

 are two causes producing a lower temperature of the litoral seas than is 

 usual in the tropics. On the one hand, there are cold currents run- 

 ning from the southern cold seas along both shores northward as far 

 as the equator and even beyond ; on the other hand, on these coasts 

 arises cold water from the sea-bottom, the equatorial currents directed 

 from the coast to the west carrying away the surface water. A 

 cooling of the litoral waters of the west coasts of Africa and America 

 is thus produced, and although the most superficial layers of water 

 may be warmed by the sun, in greater depths within the litoral 

 there may prevail a low temperature. Thus, on the west coasts of 

 Africa and America, it may be possible that northern litoral forms 

 penetrate into the tropics and beyond, and may reach the litoral of 

 the cooler antartic hemisphere. The presence of Grangon capensis 

 and C. antarcticus may be thus explained. 



By adaption to a cooler temperature a large number of Cran- 

 gonidse are able to descend to greater depths,"'' and by this habit 

 they may enter and cross the tropics in the deep sea. The species 

 adapted to the greater depths show, as usually in deep sea animals, 

 a very large horizontal range, and, therefore, they can reach 

 the southern hemisphere, while a re- ascending into the litoral 

 of the antarctic regions is possible. We know of the genus Pon- 

 tophilus, which is the only one containing true deep sea species of wide 

 distribution, two species in southern Australia and New 7 Zealand, the 

 presence of which is probably due to this cause. 



Other barriers against the distribution of the species of Cran- 

 gonidse are of a topographical character. At first, the great conti- 

 nents of northern Eurasia and North America cause a complete 

 separation of the northern temperate parts of the Atlantic and 

 Pacific, and, therefore, these oceans contain distinct species. 

 Farther, the Crangonidse, living mostly benthonic, can not pass over 

 great oceans, and, accordingly, the eastern and western shores both 



16 The cold temperature is the main cause favoring immigration in the 

 deep seas, and in the arctics the deep sea and the litoral are closely connected. 

 See Monaco, Zur Erforschung der Meere, etc., translated into German by 

 Marenzeller, Wien, 1891, p. 135, and Pfeffer, Versuch iiber dor erdgeschichtliche 

 Entwickelung der jetzigen Verbreitungsverh'iltnisseunsererTiervvolt, Hamburg, 

 1891. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



of the Pacific and Atlantic are inhabited by different species. Only 

 the true arctic species being able to live along the most northern 

 shores of America and Asia show a circumpolar distribution, no 

 topographic barriers of the kind mentioned there being present. 

 The species not living in the arctic, but in the boreal 17 seas, are re- 

 stricted by such topographic barriers. 



It is evident, therefore, that the means of dispersal of the 

 Crangonidse, except Pontocaris and a few species of Pontophilus, do 

 not act against the climatic barriers and mostly also not against the 

 topographic. Only a few known species are present on both shores 

 of the Atlantic: Pontophilus norvegicus (100-150 fath.) and 

 Sabinea sarsi (60-150 fath.). Whether these species can pass over 

 the barrier formed by the northern Atlantic as adult animals or as 

 larva 1 , or whether this distribution is due to other causes, we can not 

 say at present. 



On the shores of the Atlantic and Pacific very nearly allied species 

 are sometimes found. These must be derived from common ancestors 

 living when the arctic ocean was not as cold as at present, and when 

 a circumpolar connection was present for these species as in the case 

 of the circumpolar forms now living. Later these species retreated 

 more southward, and by the topographic separation of the range, 

 the morphological characters could change, and distinct forms could 

 develop. 



The geographical distribution of the Crangonidse is a very char- 

 acteristic one and important as limiting the northern zoo-geographical 

 regions of the litoral. Apart from a few species living in the tropics, 

 in the antarctic and in the deep sea, the family of Crangonidre char- 

 acterizes the northern circumpolar region, as defined by me formerly. 18 

 This region is characterized by the genera Nectocrangon and Sabinea. 

 Among the northern species we can distinguish true arctic species 

 showing a circumpolar range, especially Crangon salebrosus, boreas, 

 Nectocrangon lar, Sabinea septemcarinata, and boreal species. The 

 latter are not circumpolar, but more restricted. Crangon crangon 

 affinis is restricted to the Pacific, Pontophilus norvegicus and Sabinea 

 sarsi to the Atlantic. The other species are more localized and char- 

 acterize each a separate local fauna, and we can distinguish a Japan- 

 ese fauna, a fauna of the Berings Sea, a fauna of the western coast of 



17 Regarding the distribution of "arctic" and "boreal" seas see Pfeffer, 

 Versuch, etc., 1891. 



18 Jenaiscbe Denkschriften, VIII, 1804, p. 78. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



America. Characteristic of the first is Grangon angusticanda ; Pon- 

 tophilus bidentatus; of the second, Grangon sharpi, C. intermedins, 

 Nedocrangon alaskensis ; of the third, Grangon munitus, G. francis- 

 corum, Paraerangon echinatus. 19 In the Atlantic, we have species 

 peculiar to the European coasts: Grangon crangon allmanni, Povto- 

 philus echinatus, P. spinosus, P. pattersoni, P. seulptus, P. bispinosus, 

 P. trispinosus, P. fasciatus, P. neglectus, and one peculiar to the east 

 coast of America: Pontophilus breviorostris. 



Accordingly, within the limits of the arctic region we can dis- 

 tinguish three sub-regions: 1. The arctie-eircumpolcvr; 2. the Aflai die- 

 boreal; 3. the Pacific-boreal, The two latter are divided into local 

 faunas, the Atlantic into the northern European and the fauna of the 

 east coast of United States; the Pacific into the local faunas of the 

 Berings Sea, of Japan, and of the west coast of North America. 



The arctic litoral region is the centre of origin of the family of 

 Crangonidfe, and the centre of its development. The geographical 

 distribution of the species not living within the arctic litoral may 

 be characterized and classified as follows: 



1. Survivors of a more cosmopolitan distribution in the tropics of 

 Indo-Malaysia: Pontocaris propensalata., P. pennata. 



2. Immigrants into the litoral of warmer seas from the northern 

 litoral : Pontophilus cataphractus , P. carinicauda. 



3. Immigrants into the deep sea. 



a. Localized species. 20 North Atlantic: Crangon agassizi, 200-900 

 fath., Sabinea hystrix, 400-900 fath.; Indo-Malaysia: Pontophilus 

 bengalensis, 107-270 fath., P. andamanensis, 180-^20 fath., P. 

 junceus, 250 fath., Prionocrangon ommatosteres, 200-400 fath.; off 

 Australia: Pontophilus profundus, 2600 fath.; off western coast of 

 Central America': Crangon atrox, 600-700 fath., Cr. procax, 600- 

 900 fath., Pontophilus occidentalis, 900-2200 fath., Paraerangon 

 areolatus, 670-680 fath. 

 b. Widely distributed abyssal species: Pontophilus gracitis, 200- 

 700 fath., Pontophilus abyssi, 1700-2200 fath., Pontophilus cha/- 

 lengeri, 1100-2700 fath. 



4. Immigrants into the litoral of the antarctic region. 



Crangon antareticus, Cr. capensis, Pontophilus auslralis, P. inter- 

 medin*. 



'•' Paraerangon echinatus is perhaps an abyssal species, judging from tlie 

 depth recorded for Paraerangon areolatus. 



20 Some of these species maybe more widely distributed. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



The occurrence of the recently described Aegean orientalis 

 Henderson, from the litoral of the Burmese coast (Gulf of Marta- 

 bem) is remarkable, because this species is said to be related to the 

 Mediterranean Pontophilus cataphraebus. It may, however, belong 

 to the genus Pontecaris, and the description and figure given by 

 Henderson do not refute this supposition. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



DOES THE DELAWARE WATER GAP CONSIST OF TWO 

 RIVER GORGES 1 



BY EMMA WALTER. 



The Delaware River passes through the Kittatinny or Blue 

 Mountaiu by a cleft nearly at right' angles to the axis of that range. 

 The entire length of the cut is a little over two miles, but only to 

 the part where it is narrowest or its walls highest and steepest is the 

 term "Water Gap" locally applied. In the following paper, when 

 the Gap is mentioned the entire two miles is included. 



It is clear this remarkable breach in the mountain has been made 

 by river water, and that it is still being deepened by the Delaware, 

 as is stated in the Reports of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey. 



But a study of the marked features of the Water Gap has con- 

 vinced me the Delaware once flowed through it from the south to- 

 wards the north, or in a direction directly opposite to the present 

 flow of the river; also that this north-flowing river was preglacial 

 and that much the larger part, both of the length and depth of 

 of the Gap, was cut by this old river, the remainder being the work 

 of the present south-flowing river since the Ice Age, the Delaware 

 Water Gap being thus composed of two united river gorges, which 

 have been cut from opposite directions. 



If we examine the work of streams which are now forcing their 

 way through hills or mountains, we will see all do their work upon 

 much the same pattern ; that is, a gorge with a funnel-shaped en- 

 trance opening down stream and contracting to a passage with more 

 or less precipitous sides that suddenly expand into an amphitheatre 

 with very precipitous walls. The curve of this amphitheatre always 

 points up the stream, and over the centre the waters tumble into a 

 pool, the depth of which, at the foot of the fall is often very great, 

 even when the stream is quite shallow in all the rest of its course. 



The upper portion of the Delaware Water Gap is just such a 

 gorge, but its funnel-shaped entrance points up stream and not down, 

 as it should if it was the work of the present river. Its amphitheatre 

 rounds down stream instead of up as it would if it had been cut by 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



our Delaware. Near the northern entrance to the Water Gap are 

 low rapids, over the Clinton rocks; just after the river accomplishes 

 its passage through the mountain it falls in a succession of low 

 rapids over the Hudson River slates. 



For many miles both above and below these two sets of rapids the 

 average depth of the water is only six feet, according to the Geolog- 

 ical Survey, but between them, about a mile and three-quarters be- 

 low the upper, and a quarter of a mile above the lower rapids, is a 

 spot where the river has a surprising depth; no two authorities agree 

 concerning the number of feet. In 1892 the engineer of the little 

 launch which plies to and fro in the Gap, said: "It is 35 feet 

 deep." L. W. Brodhead writes me: "We took soundings about 

 forty years ago and made it 45 feet;" and he adds, "a sounding 

 some years previous reached 60 feet, while a century earlier it was 

 thought to be unfathomable." In Penna. Geol. Sur. Rept's. , 

 Vol. G6, the depth is given as 51 feet, while a local Guide Book 

 gives 70 feet. 



Two agencies" are, no doubt, slowly lessening this remarkable 

 depth. The gradual cutting down of the whole river bed from this 

 point to sea level and the slow filling of the pool, by the debris 

 dropped into its quiet waters in times of freshet. 



At the north entrance of the Water Gap the bed of the river is 

 nearly 1,500 feet wide; in half a mile it has contracted to 400 feet 

 and in the next mile reaches its narrowest, 350 feet. This portion 

 ;s nearly a quarter of a mile in length, its walls, 1,000 feet high, 

 rise at an average angle of 45°. From 350 feet the channel 

 suddenly widens to an oblong pool 500 feet wide and about 900 feet 

 long. This pool is bounded by nearly 900 feet of Pennsylvania 

 shore which rises, steeply, to a height of 1,100 feet. The New 

 Jersey side stretches in a beautiful curve, 2,100 feet long, and rises 

 in part a sheer precipice of 1,000 feet, with 200 feet of steep rock 

 still above that. This great curve rounds to the south and ends 

 suddenly at the Point of Rocks. It is just opposite this point and 

 not far from the New Jersey shore, the extraordinary, deep water 

 before described is found. Here, I believe, is the centre of the 

 amphitheatre of the gorge of the north-flowing Delaware and this 

 deep pool marks the spot where the waters of the great river plunged 

 into the chasm. But the solid rock wall over which they fell has 

 been breached by a channel 400 feet wide. Through this opening 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



the Delaware enters that portion of the Water Gap that I believe 

 is the work of the present south-flowing river. 



Nor is the character of the part of the Gap just described the 

 only evidence that the Delaware River in pre-glacial times flowed to 

 the northward. 



In Vol. G6, page 53, we read, "finding an old buried valley bed 

 from Port Jervis northeastward to the Hudson River at Rondout, 

 * * * the suggestion seemed not unreasonable that the Delaware 

 turned northeastward at Port Jervis and, receiving a large tributary 

 from the south, kept along this old buried valley to the Hudson River. 

 "But," the report continues, " subsequent study of the Delaware 

 Valley, southward * * * seemed to render this view uncertain, 

 .since the Delaware appears to have flowed through the Kittatinny 

 Mountain, at the Water Gap, during its entire history." 



I think it is clear "the Delaware has flowed through the Gap 

 during its entire history," but that the direction of the flow of the 

 river through the Gap in pre-glacial times was exactly the reverse of 

 its direction since the glacier disappeared. 



In Vol. D3, of Penn. Geol. Sur. Rept's., two remarkable patches of 

 gravel are described. One is at West Bethlehem, the other at 

 Easton. Both lie at a height of 170 feet above the present level of 

 the water in the Delaware at Easton. Upon this gravel rests a 

 boulder clay which contains scratched stones, gravel and clay, to- 

 gether having a thickness of from 25 to 30 feet. The irregularities 

 of the upper line of the gravel are great and show it was worn into 

 hollows before the clay was deposited. " This gravel," says the 

 report, "is unquestionably a river deposit, a fragment of an ancient 

 river terrace, and could only have been formed by the damming 

 back of descending waters; but there is no evidence of such a dam 

 and no known means for producing it below Easton." 



If the Delaware, at the time it was depositing this gravel was 

 "descending" towards the north, then it is above Easton and not 

 below that we must look for the means for producing such a dam. 



I think we can find both the "means" and the place, and that 

 they explain not only the gravel but also the boulder clay which 

 li<s on top of it. The "means" is the great Ice Sheet, moving 

 southward ; the place, where this Ice Sheet effectually blocked the 

 northward flow of the Delaware. This, undoubtedly, would be at the 

 Water Gap. But, manifestly, a great river flowing far to the north- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



ward would meet the glacier long before the ice reached the Gap. 

 Possibly the river migbt rind, for a time, a side escape for its waters, 

 without turning back upon itself. As Prof. J. P. Lesley says, on page 

 1,203 of Summary, Final Report, Penn. Geol. Sur. "the Dela- 

 ware River seems to have flowed in different ages along different 

 lines." When the ice at length rilled the Gap, which is about twenty- 

 three miles above Easton, then the river waters would be ponded 

 back upon themselves and all the debris carried by the stream, still 

 flowing from the south, would be dropped where the currents meet. 

 When the ice finally reached its southern limit, marked by the 

 terminal moraine which lies 12 miles above Easton, then, what H. 

 ( arvill Lewis, in his "Glacial Geology of Great Britain and Ireland," 

 styles an "extra- moraine lake" would be formed. For he says: 

 " when glacier or moraine obstructs a stream flowing from outside 

 towards the glacier a lake may be formed in the non-glaciated area 

 bordering the moraine. Such lakes are only temporary and are 

 drained when the river has established its new channel." "At first 

 thought," Mr. Lewis continues, "it seems a remarkable feat for a 

 river to suddenly begin flowing backward and up stream ; but 

 I can show that this feat was actually accomplished in many 

 cases, both in America and England," and farther, "a river having 

 begun to flow backward while the ice barred its forward progress, con- 

 tinued to do so after theice-wall had retreated and the terminal moraine 

 took its place." On another page we read in the same work, "when 

 a stream was dammed back by the front of the ice, there boulder 

 clay full of scratched erratics accumulated, filling the old river 

 valley." 



The change in the direction of the flow of the Delaware was no 

 doubt accelerated by the general change in the level of the land 

 which we know accompanied the Ice Age, an elevation at the north 

 and a depression at the south. In "Glacial Geol. G. Brit, and Ire." 

 before quoted, it is stated, "there was in Pennsylvania a subsidence 

 of 1*0 feet at tide-water. The rivers then emptied much further 

 inland and their channels were much shorter and relatively steeper 

 than now and thus their cutting power would be largely increased." 

 The great volume of water loaded with debris which must have 

 issued from the melting ice sheet would also add greatly to the 

 rapidity with which a new channel would be cut. 



In a note in 2d Geol. Surv. Penna. Rep't, Vol. L, Prof. J. P. 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Lesley calls attention to the curious fact that the gravel deposit at 

 Easton stands nearly upon the same level with the highest of the 

 Upper Delaware terraces above that river. 



The terraces of the Upper Delaware are a marked and beautiful 

 feature of its scenery. They are found between Port Jervis and the 

 Water Gap, often as four regular steps. The first or lowest is from 

 20 to 25 feet above the river, while the fourth or highest terrace 

 stands at 150 feet above the present river level. Five terraces are 

 all well marked along Brodhead's Creek, the principal tributary of 

 the Delaware between Port Jervis and the Water Gap. They can 

 also be traced up the "great buried valley" in which the sluggish 

 stream known as Cherry Creek flows to enter the Delaware just be- 

 low the mouth of Brodhead's Creek and just above the northern 

 entrance to the Gap. 



In Report L, Prof. Lewis says, " these terraces of the Upper 

 Delaware may be due to an ancient obstruction in the Gap backing 

 up the water from the melting glacier to form a lake of considerable 

 size." That these terraces are of later formation than the glacial 

 deposits is proved on Brodhead's Creek, where a railroad cutting shows 

 kames partly covered by terrace material. 



Now it will be remembered their positions are directly reversed at 

 Easton ; there the glacial material lies on the top of the river terrace, 

 showing that the terrace there is the older deposit of the two. 



If the rock in the centre of the amphitheatre of the pre-glacial 

 gorge had not been cut down to present river level, when the glacier 

 retreated this rock-wall would certainly stand as "an ancient obstruc- 

 tion in the Gap, damming back the waters to form a lake of con- 

 siderable size," or from Port Jervis to the Water Gap. In this lake 

 the waters would rise until they reached the top of the rock-wall and 

 pouring over it the draining of the lake would begin. So the highest 

 terrace of the new river would come to stand nearly upon the same 

 level as the lowest or last of the old river, the new standing at 150 

 feet and the old at 170 feet above the present water level in the 

 river. Does this difference of 20 feet represent the sum of the 

 fall of the bed of the old river between Easton and the Water Gap 

 and the amount of the erosion by the ice between the same points? 



In Vol. L, page 58, H. Carvil Lewis says, "it was a surprising and 

 unexpected fact to find no tongue of ice was projected through the 

 Gap, which was, as it were, ignored by the glacier. It filled the 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Gap up with ice but moved diagonally across it." Glacial stria' all 

 pointing in a direction obliquely across the mountain and the Gap, 

 occur at various heights and on the top of the mountain, but no 

 striae were noted below the Kittatinny House. This hotel stands 

 upon the 120 foot contour line of Chance's map, though according to 

 Mr. Erodhead it is 180 feet above the river and is situated just be- 

 low the north entrance to the Gap. 



Above the carriage road, on the Pennsylvania side, not far from 

 the narrowest part of the gorge, a series of beautiful, polished, hori- 

 zontal grooves of considerable size may be seen ; on the perpendicular 

 face of the sand-stone rock, Mr. L. W. Brodhead gives the height 

 of these grooves above river as 150 feet. Their course is nearly at 

 right angles to the direction of the glacial stria? on the mountain. 



Whether these are glacial grooves, or whether they are, as seems* 

 to me most probable, the result of a swift current of water carrying 

 much debris, they certainly show that a powerfully erosive agent of 

 some kind passed through the Gap at about the height of 150 feet. 

 Now at this same height stands the upper terrace of the present river, 

 while not far above the same elevation lies the old river gravel, and 

 glacial striae appear to be absent below a nearly equal level. The 

 position of grooves, terrace, old river gravel and absence of glacial 

 stria?, so nearly on the same line, is explained, if the rock wall of 

 the centre of the amphitheatre stood somewhere near a height of 150 

 feet at the end of the Ice Age. 



When the water commenced to tlow over this rock-wall it would 

 begin the cutting of the short lower, or south portion of the Gap. 

 Its walls are very precipitious for a short distance and the gorge 

 ends rather suddenly, as the southeastern face of the Kittatinny 

 Mountain is exceedingly bold. This lower gorge extends from the 

 Point of Rocks to the head of the rapids over the Hudson River 

 slates. The width of the channel where the river passes from the 

 upper gorge to the lower, as before stated, is 400 feet, but it increases 

 to 800 feet at its wide- spreading mouth. This very rapid curving 

 outward of the walls of the lower gorge, on both sides of the river 

 so nearly alike, seems to indicate the impetuous rush of an immense 

 body of water. 



The difference in the character of the bed of the present river 

 from Port Jervis to the beginning of the Hudson River slates 

 and from the beginning of the Hudson River slates to the 




204 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



Jtmccp oftkc 



TteducecLJTHjTR. 



Chance's 

 Contour Map. 





o Ho hot goo 

 J L_ 



J 



JiUe 



fi 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



moraine at Belvidere, I think offers further proof that the first 

 mentioned portion was cut before the coming of the ice sheet, and the 

 last since the melting of the ice ; for from Port Jervis to the 

 slates the Delaware flows in a deep, ancient river valley or valleys. 

 Its bed, except at a few points where there is a rock bottom for a 

 short distance, is in the glacial drift which still fills the old water 

 course to an unknown depth, even the deepest portion of the Gap 

 itself being so filled, while from the beginning of the slates to 

 Belvidere, the river has a rock bed, its channel is broad, the valley 

 wide, with hills rising only one or two hundred feet above the river. 



Looking southward from the top of Mt. Minsi, on the Pennsylvania 

 side of the southern entrance to the Gap, from a height of 1,100 

 feet, the country has the appearance of a gently sloping plain nearly 

 to Belvidere, 13 miles away. The fall in the river in this distance 

 is 4] feet per mile, while in the unglaciated area between Belvidere 

 and Easton the descent is 61 feet per mile. This fell, with the vast 

 volume of water which must have continually poured through the 

 Gap during the melting of the ice, would certainly, I think, give a 

 torrent of sufficient force to accomplish the work which I have assumed 

 has been done since the melting of the ice sheet. 



If I have proven that the gorge from the Point of Rocks to the 

 northern entrance of the Gap was the work of a north-flowing river, 

 and the gorge from the Point of Rocks to the southern entrance of the 

 Gap is the work of the south-flowing Delaware, it follows that the 

 Delaware Water Gap doe* consist of two river gorges united, eroded 

 from different directions and in different geological epochs. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



NEW SPECIES OF THE GENUS CERION. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY AND E. G. YANATTA. 



Mr. C. J. Maynard has lately made known certain characters of 

 the internal teeth or lamella? of the species of the genus Cerion 

 found by cutting the shell open. By this means, many species con- 

 siderably alike externally are found to he well distinguished when 

 their interiors are examined. Mr. E. G. Vanatta having engaged 

 to make the necessary sections, a considerahle portion of the Cerious 

 of the Academy's collection has been thus reviewed, and various new 

 species brought to light, some of which may be briefly diagnosed 

 as folloAvs, further information and figures being reserved for a 

 future communication : — 



Cerion ( Paracerion | tridentatum Pilsbry and Yauatta. 



Shell similar externally to C. incanum, but aperture long, ovate, 

 much higher than wide ; cone of spire longer, several whorls following 

 the nepionic ones densely striate. Parietal lamina small, short, cen- 

 tral, with a smaller accessory denticle to the left of and beyond its 

 inner end, and another lamina slightly to the right and deeper 

 within. Alt. 25- 27^; diam. 9-10 mm. Cuba, R. Swift, 



The section Paracerion P. and V. is proposed for forms having 

 the tooth arrangement described above. 



Cerion (Paracerion) basistriatum P. and V. 



Shell allied to C. striatellum in form and tooth arrangement, but 

 lacking riblets on the intermediate whorls, basal whorl costulate ; 

 substance much thinner. Alt. 16*-18; diam. 8-9 mm. Cabo 

 Cruz, Cuba. 



Cerion (Maynardia) felis P. and V. 



Shell short, stout, cylindrical, with short but straight and rather 

 acute cone; strongly costate throughout (except nepionic whorls), the 

 ribs curved, 16 on penult, and on next earlier whorls, widely spaced. 

 Entire surface closely sculptured with unevenly spaced, (hep, incised 

 spiral strice. Whorls 10, slightly convex. Aperture ovate-cordate, 

 nearly as wide as high, over a third the shell's length. Lip 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



refiexed, thin; parietal lamina strong, short; axial lamina incon- 

 spicuous in front. Alt. 28; diam. 12 mm. Cat Island, Bahamas. 

 This species and the next are peculiarly unlike all others known 

 in being densely, conspicuously spirally striated. 



Cerion (Maynardia) Johnsoni I'. and V. 



Shell turreted , elongate, the last ichor/ widest, the others forming a 

 tapering spire, the earlier whorls of the form seen in a young Euca- 

 lodium. Surface densely spirally striate, and hearing very stout, 

 distant ribs; 11 on penult., one or two fewer on earlier whorls. 

 Whorls 111, very convex. Aperture about one-third the alt., oval- 

 cordate; parietal lamina small. Color cream- white. Alt. 82 ; diam. 

 11 mm. Locality unknown ; one specimen from coll. C. W. Johnson. 



This is really the most remarkable form of Cerion yet discovered, 

 allied to C. felis in sculpture, but in the tapering contour wholly 

 unlike anything known hitherto in the genus, with the exception of 

 Phjxi scalarina Gundl. , which is much smaller, with less attenuated 

 earlier whorls. 



Cerion (Maynardia) columna 1'. and V. 



Shell thick, strong, cylindrical or column-shaped, the latter 4-5 

 whorls of equal diameter, those preceding forming a cone of one- 

 fourth the shell's length; bluish-white, flesh- tinged on cone, some 

 whorls of which are finely, closely striate ; the stria? then either 

 disappear, leaving the median whorls smooth, or become coarse, 

 wide- spaced, irregular costa 1 on median whorls, stronger on last whorl. 

 Whorls 18, hardly convex. Aperture small, less than one-third the 

 alt., long-ovate, gothic- angular above ; interior deep purple-brown, 

 often becoming red-brown toward the wdiite lip, which is everywhere 

 revolutely refiexed, but not thickened. Parietal tooth strong and 

 (for a Maynardia) long. Axial lamina moderate. Alt. 46i ; diam. 

 12 \ mm. Inagua. 



Differs from the closely allied G. infanda in the smaller and colored 

 aperture, less compressed body-whorl, etc. ; from G. reginu it differs 

 in the more elongate form, colored mouth and less excavated umbil- 

 ical tract ; from ( '. regium in the more slender contour, etc. It 

 resembles in shape, Pupa cretacea Pfr.; but that species is far more 

 obtuse than any of the dozen specimens of this before us. A variety 

 which may be called v. valida is smaller, strongly and subregularlv 

 costate throughout. Inagua. Alt. 34; diam. 10* mm. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Cerion (Maynardia) regina P. and V. 



Shell like C. regium Bens, in form, color, and the expanded, ex- 

 cavated umbilical area; lip narrower ; ribless except on the last 

 whorl, which has few irregularly spaced ribs, or in some specimens 

 uneven, sparse ribs are found throughout the cylindrical portion. 

 Parietal tooth short. Alt. 30-331; diam. 12 mm. Turk's Island 

 (Swift, Gabb). 



This species has affinities with C. columna of Inagua, G. regium 

 of Castle Island, C. lentiginosum and G. album of Rum Cay. The 

 first is more elongated and pillar-like, with very dark mouth ; the 

 second is stouter, heavier, with far wider, thicker lip — in fact, a lip 

 of quite Ethiopian characteristics; and the two forms from Rum Cay 

 are distinguished from all the preceding by the close, even micro- 

 scopic costulation of their earlier whorls. 



C. regina percostatum P. and V. 



Form of shell and mouth as in G. regina; but whole surface except 

 nepionic apex, regularly ribbed, as in Strophia alba Mayn. , except 

 that the ribs on cylindrical portion are wider spaced. White, much 

 mottled and clouded with brown. Holds the same relation to ( '. 

 regina that album holds toward lentiginosum. Alt. 35'.; diam. 13 

 mm.; often smaller in the same proportions or comparatively wider. 

 Mouth longer than in C. album Mayn. Turk's Island. 



Cerion regina comes P. and V. 



Shell with the form, size and sculpture of G. regina, but coloring 

 of C. lentiginosum Mayn.; heavily streaked and blotched with chest- 

 nut brown, on the cone finely speckled and zigzagged. Turk's 

 Island. ( Swift, Gabb, et al.) 



Cerion regina Swiftii P. and V. 



Shell with the elongated form and large, excavated umbilical 

 tract of C. regina, but smaller, thinner, distinctly tapering from the 

 body- whorl upward; parietal callus very heavy in adults, parietal 

 lamina low, deep-seated. Color varying from white to chestnut, 

 streaked and speckled with white. Alt. 26; diam. 10 mm. Turk's 

 Island. (C. Blume, in Robert Swift collection, A. N. S.) 

 Cerion regina eucosmium P. and V. 



Shell with the form and size of regina, but smooth, glossy, rib- 

 less, or with a few irregular ribs on body-whorl ; livid, pinkish- 

 brown, streaked and speckled with white. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Cerion regina brevispira P. and V. 



Shell short, pupiform, compact ; lower two whorls of equal diam- 

 eter, those above tapering to form a short cone. Whorls 8-9, all 

 but the last one smooth, the last more or less ribbed ; umbilical 

 chink deep, the area below it excavated. Aperture much exceed- 

 ing one-third the length of shell, ovate, purple within; peristome 

 narrowly reflexed, not thickened, white; parietal callus impercep- 

 tible; parietal lamina small, rather short, deep-seated. Axial 

 lamina small. White, boldly streaked and blotched with rich 

 brown. Alt. 22, diam. 10 mm. or smaller. Apert., alt. 9.5; width 

 8.3 mm. Turk's Island. (W. M. Gabb.) 



This form looks very distinct from C. regina, and we have no 

 intermediate specimens; but it occurs on the same small island, and 

 may prove to be only a sub-species of that form. 



Cerion (Maynardia) maritimum var. sublaevigatum (Pfr.) P. and V. 



Similar to maritima, but lacking costulse. Matanzas, etc., Cuba. 

 (Strophia maritima Maynard, Monogr. p. 127, seems to be this, 

 rather than the typical maritima.) 



Cerion (Maynardia) abacoensis P. and V. 



Shell like Cerion album Maynard in form, sculpture and color, 

 or rather shorter; differing in the more closed, shallower, far shorter 

 umbilical rimation and very much smaller umbilical area behind • 

 columellar lip, and in the thicker lip. Alt. 32; diam. 12| mm.; 

 alt. 27i; diam. 13 mm. Abaco I. (Bland.). 



Cerion (Maynardia) incanoides P. and V. 



Shell resembling C. incanum in general aspect. Very thin; 

 cylindrical, the lower three whorls of equal diameter, those above 

 forming a convex, obtuse cone. Surface nearly smooth, as in S. 

 incana; white or fleshy-white, the two nepionic whorls corneous 

 brown, the following whorls of cone finely variegated with zigzag 

 brown marking and speckling. Whorls 10, almost flat. Aperture 

 ovate-truncate, brown inside; parietal lamina low and rather short; 

 axial lamina sharp, strong within last whorl, but not over a whorl 

 long ; peristome narrowly reflexed, white, thin ; parietal callus rather 

 thin ; umbilical rimation deep, sometimes perforate, the area below 

 it broad, excavated, flaring. Alt. 30; diam. 11 mm.; alt. of apert. 

 11; diam. 9 mm. Turk's Island. 



15 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



This species belongs clearly to the group of ('. regina, lentiginomm, 

 etc., but it is a very thin shell, smooth like incana, with which it 

 has probably been confused in collections. 



Cerion (Maynardia) Maynardi P. and V. 



Shell large, strong, cylindrical, white or fleshy in the intervals 

 between strong, slightly curved ribs, separated by three times their 

 width on the cylindrical portion, which consists of 3 to 4 whorls; 

 those above forming a short cone on which the ribs are much closer. 

 Whorls 111, flat, the last ascending, becoming attenuated down- 

 ward, but with well rounded base, upon which the ribs are obsolete, 

 but replaced by fine costuhe. Umbilical rimation very deep, the 

 area below it rather wide, bounded by a spiral groove well within 

 the basal margin of umbilical tract. Aperture ovate-truncate, brown 

 within; parietal lamina very strong, thick but short; axial lamina 

 small, one whorl long. Peristome stout, broadly reflexed, its face 

 convexly thickened but not "duplicate;" broadly vaulted over the 

 umbilical region; parietal callus varying from thin to heavy. Alt. 

 35; diam. 15 mm.; apert. alt. 14; width 12 mm. Some specimens 

 fall under, some exceed these dimensions. Abaco, Bahamas. (Robert 

 Swift. ) Larger and coarser than G. abacoensis, and with far deeper 

 umbilical rimation and distant ribs. 



Cerion (Maynardia) yumaensis P. and V. 



Shell cylindrical, the lower three whorls of equal diameter, those above 

 tapering rapidly to form a short coue; white, mottled with fleshy-corneous 

 above, or having this color appear in sparse streaks, or in most or 

 all the intervals between the opaque white riblets throughout the 

 shell. Surface evenly, regularly and closely ribbed, the ribs sep- 

 arated by intervals slightly greater than their own width, about 29 

 on penult, whorl. Whorls 9?, the earlier two corneous, first one 

 smooth, next very minutely radially striate. Last whorl rounded 

 below. Umbilical chink much compressed, the tract below it semi- 

 lunar, defined by a groove. Aperture truncate-ovate, brown within; 

 parietal lamina small, short. Columella truncated obliquely; lip 

 expanded, not thickened; the parietal callus light. Alt, 24'. ; diam. 

 !'] mm. Yuma River, Hayti (Henry Prime) ; San Domingo (Gabb; 

 Salle). While superficially like C. striatellum, the different arma- 

 ture of the parietal wall at once distinguishes this species. The 

 parietal lamina is much reduced, almost absent in some specimens. 




Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1895. 



Plate I. 



6 



9c 



9 



9a 



9b 



10a 



HARRIS, TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF TEXAS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1S95. 



Plate II 



HARRIS, TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF TEXAS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Scl Phila. 1895. 



Plate III. 



IT 



HARRIS, TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF TEXAS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phi I a. 1895. 



Plate IV. 



HARRIS, TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF TEXAS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phi la. 1895. 



Plate V. 



HARRIS, TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF TEXAS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1895. 



Plate VI. 



12a 



11 



13a 



HARRIS, TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF TEXAS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1895. 



Plate VII. 



HARRIS, TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF TEXAS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1895. 



Plate VIM 



HARRIS, TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF TEXAS. 





Proc. Acad Nat Sci. Phila. 1895 



Plate IX. 



HARRIS, TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF TEXAS. 





1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2fll 



April 2, 1895. 



The President, General Wistar, in the Chair. 



Forty-six persons present. 



Mr. Henry A. Pilsbry was elected a Curator for the unexpired 

 term of the late Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



April 9. 



The President, General Wistar, in the Chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The following minute was presented from the Biological and Mi- 

 croscopical Section and unanimously adopted : 



JOHN A. RYDER, Ph. D. 



In view of the death of our colleague, Dr. John A. Ryder, it is 

 the sense of the Biological and Microscopical Section of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia that a minute be recorded to 

 express the great regret of the Section and its deep appreciation of 

 the loss it has sustained in his untimely decease. 



Dr. Ryder was elected a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia January 29, 1878, and shortly after that date began to 

 attend the meetings of the Section and frequently made interesting com- 

 munications. He became a member of the Section November 15, 1886, 

 and at the annual meeting in the same year he was chosen Director, 

 which office he held until the close of. 1888. Many of his commu- 

 nications made before the Section were verbal and were, to a large 

 extent, a resume or report of his own current work, and also of that 

 of other investigators at home and abroad, who were working in 

 lines similar to his own. The subjects treated in these communica- 

 tions included myology, embryology, histology, microscopic tech- 

 nique, malacology, comparative anatomy and kindred biological 

 studies. Most of these communications afterward appeared in print 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy or elsewhere. 

 16 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Dr. Ryder's earnestness of purpose and intense interest in his 

 studies could not fail to impress and stimulate his fellow members, 

 while his wonderful memory and obliging disposition were often 

 appealed to by them, and it was very rarely that he could not fur- 

 nish the desired information. Especially was this true of his knowl- 

 edge and recollection of scientific literature ; on many subjects he 

 could give an almost complete bibliography from memory. 



In deeply deploring the early death of Dr. Ryder, which occurred 

 at the height of his scientific vigor, the Section but voices the senti- 

 ment of the entire biological world. 



(Signed) 



Harold Wingate, ] 



Amos P. Brown, [committee. 



H. F. Moore, J 



April 16. 



The President, General Wistar, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four persons present* 



The deaths of the following Correspondents were announced : — 



John Whitaker Hulke, of London, G. B. ; Gaston de Saporta, of 



Aix, Germany, and James Dwight Dana, of New Haven, Conn. 

 The following papers were presented for publication :- — 

 New species of the genus Cerion. By Henry A. Pilsbry and 



E. G. Vanatta. 



Notes on Varying Hares of Washington and British Columbia, 



with description of a new subspecies. By Samuel N. Rhoads. 



April 23. 

 The President, General Wistar, in the Chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " Distribution of the American Bison in Penn- 

 sylvania, with remarks on a new fossil species," by Samuel N. 

 Rhoads, was presented for publication. 



April 30. 

 The President, General Wistar, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



A paper entitled "On the Priority of the nanus Calliste, Aglaia 

 and Calospiza and their use in Ornithology," by Witmer Stone, 

 was presented for publication. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan was appointed Chairman of the Publication 

 Committee to succeed the late Mr. Redfield. 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixon was appointed a member of the Library 

 Committee to succeed the late Dr. Ruschenberger. 



Messrs. Persifor Frazer, Augelo Heilprin, J. P. Lesley, P>enj. 

 Smith Lyman and Theodore D. Rand were appointed members of 

 the Hayden Memorial Geological Committee. 



Mr. William W. Jefteris was appointed Curator of the William 

 S. Vaux Collections. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF ACHATINELLIDJE FROM THE 



HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. 



BY D. D. BALDWIN. 



At the present time the total number of described species of Acha- 

 tinella, after eliminating the Auriculella and Leptackatina, is about 

 330. Of these 102 are manifest synonyms or varieties. Some of 

 the remaining species are closely allied, and nearly all exceedingly 

 variable. 



In the past twenty years only five species have been added to the 

 list, though during this period several new regions have been explored 

 and many new forms discovered. Strange as it may appear, large 

 districts remain yet to be explored. These will require much re- 

 search, as well as considerable time before the molluscan life and its 

 exact distribution can be fully ascertained, for the habitats of the 

 Achatinella are our lofty and rugged mountains, covered with almost 

 impenetrable forest jungles, and furrowed by deep gorges, often diffi- 

 cult of access, a species being often restricted to a single isolated 

 mountain ridge or gorge. 



The inconstant and variable characters which many of the species 

 of Achatinella exhibit, the uncertainty of some of the species already 

 published, and the somewhat confused synonymy of the group, all 

 contribute to render difficult the matter of affirming new species. 

 Of great importance is the geographical position or distribution of a 

 species. Differences in the external appearance and color of the 

 animals furnish specific tests of essential value. Peculiarities in the 

 sculpturing and color of the earlier or embryonic whorls have proved 

 of value in determining some of the species. An experience also of 

 over forty years in collecting and studying the habitats and distribu- 

 tion of Achatinella may be to some extent a guarantee for the 

 validity of the new species herewith presented. 



We are indebted to Rev. Prof. Gwatkin, of Cambridge, England, 

 and Mr. H. Suter, of New Zealand, for notes regarding the lingual 

 dentition of the species of Achatinella. They indicate two very dis- 

 tinct divisions of the genus, as founded on the structure of the radula. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



Section first. No jaw ; only a chitinous, transparent membrane 

 covering the lips. Radula broad, oblong. Teeth of the radula very 

 numerous, en chevron, rows sloping obliquely backward ; the central 

 tooth long and slender, often obsolete; the laterals and marginals all 

 of the same type, base narrow, head rather broad, the denticles 

 varying in number from five to seven, in the last marginal from four 

 to two. 



To this section belong the following subgenera of Aehatinella, viz. : 

 Ichatinellastrum Pfr. ; Bulimella Pfr; Apex von Martens ; Ptatii- 

 lina Pfr.; Newcombia Pfr.; and Ebumella and Perdicella of Pease. 

 The species of these subgenera are all arboreal in their habit, and 

 their dentition is practically indistinguishable, except that in some 

 species the central tooth is absent or slightly varied. 



Section second. Jaw present; arcuate, strong, not ribbed. Radula 

 oblong, not wide. Teeth quadrate, in nearly straight rows; centrals 

 small, narrow, sometimes faintly tricuspid; laterals larger, bicuspid; 

 marginals bicuspid .or multicuspid. 



To this section belong the subgenera Amastra H. & A. Ad., and 

 Laminella Pfr. The species of the former are terrestrial, and those 

 of the latter either terrestrial or living on low shrubs. The differences 

 in the number of teeth are small, and the variations of shape trifling. 



It thus appears that in the majority of the generally accepted 

 subgenera of Aehatinella there is no possibility of separating the 

 sections by differences in the form of dentition. The terrestrial 

 species, or those tending to terrestrial habits, are characterized by 

 the presence of a jaw; the arboreal species, by its absence. The 

 group Amastra, including perhaps Laminella, are entitled to separate 

 generic rank. 



Section ACHATINELLASTRUM Pfeiffer. 



Aehatinella multizonata, n. sp. PI. X, figs. 1, 2. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, moderately solid, elongately conical, 

 apex subacute, surface shining, striated with fine lines of growth, 

 under a strong lens showing very numerous, extremely minute de- 

 cussating stria?; apical whorls smooth, scarcely decussated. Color 

 white, variously striped with numerous dark brown lines and bands, 

 some on the base and others spiral. Whorls 6, lightly marginate 

 above, convex ; suture lightly impressed. Aperture oblique, oval, 

 white, the dark bands of the exterior visible within ; peristome 




'2 16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



acute, thickened within, slightly expanded, white, the dark lines of 

 the exterior marked on the inner edge ; columella purplish brown, 

 terminating in a strong, oblique, tortuous fold. 



Length, 18 ; diam. , 10 mm. 



Habitat, Nuuanu Valley, Oahu. 



Animal, when extended in motion, longer than the shell. Mantle 

 brown, lighter on the outer edge. Foot above and below light 

 brown; posterior portion tapering. Tentacles long and slender; these, 

 with the head above, slate color. 



A great variety of transition forms occur between this species and 

 A. belhda Smith, which is found on the neighboring mountain 

 ridges of Nuuanu Valley, and is a much larger shell. The animals 

 of the two extremes are specifically different. The mantle of the 

 latter is black, whereas that of the former is brown, and that of the 

 intermediate forms varies from black to brown. 

 Achatinella Juddii, n. sp. PI. X, figs. 3, 4. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, solid, pyramidally conical, apex ob- 

 tuse ; surface shining, covered with very delicate incremental lines ; 

 the nuclear whorls smooth. Color light gray, shading into light 

 chestnut on the apical whorls, the gray more intense under the 

 cuticle ; with two black lines, one below and one at the periphery, 

 the latter faint and continued on the soire ; between the lines a white 

 hand which revolves on the suture to the very tip of the apex. 

 Whorls 6, margined above, slightly convex ; suture lightly im- 

 pressed. Aperture oblique, oval, white, the light gray of the ex- 

 terior surface exhibiting a darker shade within; peristome acute, 

 slightly thickened within, a little expanded, columellar margin very 

 slightly reflected, white, the coloring of the exterior dark lines reap- 

 pearing rather more intense on the inner edge ; columella white, 

 terminating in a moderately developed flexuous fold. 



Length, 15; diam., 9' mm. 



Habitat, Halawa, Island of Oahu. 



No opportunity for an examination of the animal has yet occurred. 

 The shell is typically very distinct from any other known species. The 

 light chestnut band on the apical whorls is a characteristic and in- 

 variable feature. The basal portion of the shell sometimes has a 

 yellowish hue. In immature shells the colors are more intense. 



Named in honor of Hon. A. F. Judd, Chief Justice of the Re- 

 public of Hawaii, by whose son the shell was discovered. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



Aohatinella Ernestina, n. sp. PI. X, figs. 5, 6. 



Shell sinistral, subperforate, moderately solid, ovately conical; 

 apex subacute ; surface shining, obliquely striated with delicate 

 growth lines, under a strong lens exhibiting numerous, very close, 

 and minute decussating stride ; apical whorls smooth, scarcely decus- 

 sated. Color yellow, lighter above ; variously striped with trans- 

 verse, dark chestnut bands, the more constant being one bordering 

 the suture, one at the periphery, spiral above, and one encircling the 

 base. Whorls 6, narrowly margined above, somewhat convex : 

 suture moderately impressed. Aperture oblique, oval, faintly ex- 

 hibiting the dark bands of the exterior; peristome acute, somewliat 

 thickened within, slightly expanded, white, the coloi'ing of the ex- 

 terior bands appearing on the inner edge ; columella white, termi- 

 nating in a prominent, oblique, tortuous fold. 



Length, 21 ; diam. , 12 mm. 



Habitat, Nuuanu Valley, Islaud of Oahu. 



The animal, when extended in motion, as long as the shell. Man- 

 tle light brown, sprinkled with black and margined on the outer edge 

 with an interrupted reddish-yellow line. Superior portion of foot 

 light brown, thickly studded with small slate spots ; under portion 

 of foot light brown with a slate tinge. Tentacles dark slate. 



This species is found near the mountain ridge separating the 

 habitats of J., castanea Rve. and A. fuscolineata Smith ; and in 

 general appearance and characters it is intermediate between these 

 species. It is much smaller than the former and rather larger than 

 the latter, and differs from them both in the arrangement of colors. 

 Transition forms between it and both of them are numerous. An item 

 of specific value is the difference in the exterior appearance and color 

 of the animals. 



Section BULIMELLA Pfeiffer. 

 Achatinella luteostoma, n. sp. PI. X, figs. 7, 8. 



Shell sinistral, imperforate, solid, ovate, spire convexly conical, 

 apex obtuse ; surface shining, marked with fine growth lines, under 

 a strong lens seen to be decussated by close, extremely minute 

 spiral striae, apical whorls smooth. Color white, with a reddish- 

 yellow lip. Whorls bh, margined above, slightly convex. Suture 

 moderately impressed. 



Aperture oblique, sinuately oval, white within. Lip obtuse, 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



thickened within, columellar margin very slightly reflexed, extremi- 

 ties united by a very thin yellowish callus. Columella reddish 

 yellow, terminating in a strong tortuous fold. 



Length, 15? ; diam., 9J mm. 



Habitat, Palolo to Niu, Island of Oahu. 



It is Bulimella rosea Swains, var. Hartman, Proceedings Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Jan. 31, 1888, p. 30. 



In occasional examples the basal portion below the periphery is 

 light brown, and sometimes a bright chestnut spiral band encircles 

 the periphery. 



Dr. Hartman, in his valuable Synonymic Catalogue of Acha- 

 tinella, has noted this species as a small variety of A. rosea Swains. 

 When we sent him the shell we were unacquainted with the animal. 

 This proves very different from that of A. rosea; and further, the 

 habitats of the two species are separated by a forty mile range of 

 wild mountain ridges and valleys which do not contain any species 

 intermediate or connecting the two. 



Achatinella Lyonsiana, n. sp. PI. X, figs. 9, 10, 11. 



Shell sinistral, imperforate, solid, ovate; spire convexly conical, 

 apex obtuse ; surface shining, striated with delicate growth lines ; 

 apical whorls smooth. Color white, with two reddish-brown bands, 

 one encircling the base, the other passing around the periphery and 

 revolving on the spire just above the suture ; the two bands are 

 sometimes confluent, and often the shell is uniform white, without 

 bands. Whorls 6, narrowly margined above, somewhat convex ; 

 suture moderately impressed. Aperture oblique, white within, sinu- 

 ately oval ; peristome white, rather obtuse, thickened within, basal 

 and columellar margins slightly expanded, extremities united by a 

 very thin callus ; columella terminating in a strong, tortuous, white 

 fold. 



Length, 17 ; diam., 11 2 mm. 



Habitat, Konahuanui Mt. , Island of Oahu ; at an altitude of 

 about 3, 000 feet above sea level. 



Animal : Mantle black, sometimes mottled with white, margined 

 with a narrow line of lighter shade. Superior and under portion of 

 foot light brown. Tentacles, tentacular sheath, and front above 

 very dark brown. 



The form of dentition of this and the other arboreal species of 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Achatinella is given in the preface to this article. The species has 

 a central tooth which is long and slender, with a small reflection and 

 two minute cutting points. (H. Suter.) 



This distinct species is dedicated to Prof. A. B. Lyons, of Oahu 

 College, who has done much to stimulate the study of the Hawaiian 

 laud fauna. 



Aohatinella Lymaniana, n. sp. PI. X, figs. 12, 13. 



Shell sinistral, very minutely perforated, solid, ovate; spire con- 

 vexly conical, apex subacute; surface shining, covered with fine 

 incremental lines, under a strong lens showing minute decussating 

 stripe ; apical whorls smooth, when not eroded. Color dark purplish 

 brown, sometimes with longitudinal or transverse white flecks or 

 zigzag lines ; a white line traversing the suture ; apex light chestnut. 

 Whorls 6, very lightly margined above, somewhat convex ; suture 

 moderately impressed. Aperture oblique, white within, sublimate ; 

 peristome acute, thickened within, expanded, the columellar margin 

 slightly reflexed and covering the small perforation, color white on 

 both face and the reverse ; columella white, terminating in a slightly 

 developed flexuous fold. 



Length, 20} ; diam., 11 £ mm. 



Habitat, Waianae Mts., Island of Oahu. 



No opportunity for an examination of the animal has yet occurred. 



This species is typically very distinct from any other known species 

 of the bulimoid section of Achutinella. 



Named in honor of Mr. Ernest Lyman, to whom science is in- 

 debted for many additions to Hawaiian land shells. 



Section APEX von Martens. 

 Aohatinella vespertina, n. sp. PI. X, fig. 14. 



Shell dextral, minutely perforated, solid, globose, with the spire coni- 

 cal, lateral outlines slightly concave, apex subacute; surface shin- 

 ing, striated with delicate growth lines; apical whorls smooth. Of 

 a uniform delicate cream color, lighter on the upper whorls and 

 sutures ; sometimes with a few faint, white transverse lines on the 

 lower whorl. Whorls 6, narrowly margined above, the first three 

 plain, the rest slightly convex, the last somewhat inflated; suture 

 lightly impressed. Aperture very oblique, oval, white within; peris- 

 tome white, acute, thickened within, somewhat expanded, the basal 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



margin slightly reflected, the columellar margin forming a sinuous 

 ridge around the umbilicus, extremities united by a very thin cal- 

 losity; columella terminating in a strong, round, white tubercle. 



Length, 21 ; diam. 14? mm. 



Habitat, Kawailoa, Island of Oahu. 



Animal when extended in motion, longer than the shell. Mantle 

 and tentacles brown, the latter with the head above, of darker shade. 

 Foot light yellow, the superior portion of darker hue. 



The nearest allied species is A. SwiftiilH ewe; but the shape 

 and color of the shell, separate habitat, and difference of animal, 

 entitle it to rank as a distinct species. 



The native Hawaiians firmly believe in the power of Achatinelh, 

 to produce musical sounds. Hence the Hawaiian name, "pupu 

 kanioe," singing shells. Their legends ascribe to them a vesper 

 song. 



Acliatinella Cookei, n. sp. PI. X, fig. 15. 



Shell dextral, su Imperforate, solid, globose, with spire regularly 

 conical, apex subacute; surface shining, marked with fine incre- 

 mental lines; the apical whorls smooth. Color, basal portion below 

 the periphery jet black or sometimes brownish black, the apex 

 white, rest of the shell very light brown, darker on the sutural mar- 

 gin. Whorls 6, margined above, the first three plain, the rest con- 

 vex, the last inflated ; suture well impressed. Aperture very 

 oblique, oval, white within ; peristome obtuse, slightly thickened 

 within, narrowly reflexed, the columellar margin forming an obtuse, 

 sinuous ridge, with the small umbilical cleft almost covered by it; 

 extremities united by a thin callus; color purplish brown on both 

 face and the reflexed portion; columella terminating in a strong, 

 flexuous tubercle, tinged with purplish brown. 



Length, 21; diam. 15 mm. 



Habitat, Waiau, Ewa, Island of Oahu. 



Animal: Mantle dark slate with a narroAV brown band encircling 

 the outer edge. Superior portion of foot light brown, mottled with 

 slate, under surface dingy white. 



This species is rare and very local in its distribution. It has 

 affinities with A. turgida Newc. , which is found in the same dis- 

 trict, but differs somewhat in form and in the peristome. We are 

 unacquainted with the animal of A. turgida. If it proves identi- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 22] 



cal with that of A. Cookei, the latter must rank as a variety of the 

 former. 



Named in honor of Hon. C. M. Cooke, by whose sons the shell 

 was discovered. 



Section PARTULINA Pfeitfer. 

 Achatinella Dolei, u. sp. PI. X, figs. 17, 18. 



Shell sinistral, minutely perforated, somewhat solid, acuminately 

 ovate conic, apex acute ; surface shining, marked with delicate incre- 

 mental striae, under a lens exhibiting extremely close, minute, de- 

 cussating spiral striae ; nuclear whorls faintly cross-lined. Color 

 white, encircled below the periphery with a brownish black band, 

 and at the periphery and above with more or less numerous, deli- 

 cate, chestnut, spiral lines, which become fainter on the middle 

 whorls and obsolete above. Whorls 6-V, narrowly margined above, 

 convex ; the last somewhat inflated, roundly angulated at the peri- 

 phery and flattened on the base ; suture deeply impressed. Aper- 

 ture oblique, roundly ovate, flattened on the basal margin, white, 

 exhibiting the brown markings of the exterior ; peristome acute, 

 angled at the periphery, slightly thickened within, expanded, basal 

 and columellar margins narrowly reflexed ; columella terminating 

 in a long, flexuous, white plait. 



Length, 24 2 ; diam. 14 mm. 



Habitat, Honomanu, Island of Maui. 



Animal when extended in motion longer than the shell. Mantle 

 intensely black with a broad outer margin of yellow and a conspicu- 

 ous orange spot in the center of the margin. Foot tapering behind, 

 above and below light yellow. Tentacles long and slender, light 

 slate. Head above lightly granulated. 



The dentition of this and the preceding species, as observed by 

 Mr. Suter, does not differ materially from that of the arboreal Acha- 

 tinellas generally. In both of these species a long and slender cen- 

 tral tooth is present. 



We found this species very plentiful at the above locality, in the 

 humid forests of the exterior slope of Haleakala crater, at an alti- 

 tude of 7,000 feet above sea level. The dark band below the peri- 

 phery is a constant feature. The nearest allied species is A. 

 splmdida Newc. , of West Maui. It differs, however, from this in 

 the sub-angulated periphery, flattened base, and uutessellated upper 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



whorls. The animals are also different, and the habitats widely 

 separated. 



We take pleasure in dedicating this beautiful shell to His Ex- 

 cellency S. B. Dole, First President of the Republic of Hawaii, a 

 gentleman noted for attainments in natural as well as political science. 



Achatinella nivea, n. sp. PI. X, fig. 19. 



Shell sinistral, subperforate, somewhat solid, acuminately ovate 

 conic, apex acute ; surface highly polished, obliquely striated with 

 fine lines of growth, and under a lens showing very close and 

 delicate decussating spiral stme ; nuclear whorls faintly decussated. 

 Color white, encircled with a narrow, pale chestnut band on or a 

 little below the periphery. Whorls 7, slightly marginate above, 

 flatly convex, the last with a somewhat angular periphery and 

 flattened base. Suture slightly impressed. 



Aperture oblique, roundly oval, white, the chestnut band of the 

 exterior visible within. Peristome white, acute, thickened within, 

 expanded, basal and columellar margins narrowly reflexed, extrem- 

 ities joined by a very thin white callus. Columella white, ter- 

 minating in a moderately developed, flexuous plait. 



Length, 24 ; diam. 14 mm. 



Habitat, Makawao to Huelo, Island of Maui. 



Animal when extended in motion longer than the shell. Mantle 

 densely black with minute brown flecks and a broad } T ellowish band 

 encircling the outer edge. Tentacles and superior portion of foot 

 brown with a slight slate tinge; under portion of foot light brown. 

 Front above covered with light granulations. 



I have before me over 500 examples of this species, which are 

 without variety in color or shape. The peripheral chestnut band 

 is a constant feature. It may be readily distinguished from 

 Achatinella Tappaniana Adams, by its more slender form and 

 convex spire, by the sub-angulated periphery, flattened base, and 

 more polished surface. The color of the animals is also very dif- 

 ferent ; and the habitats are separated by a twenty-five mile ex- 

 panse of low dry land, which is destitute of forests and molluscan 

 life. In character of shell and animal it has some affinity with * 

 the preceding species ; and, considering the remote habitats, the 

 two may be regarded as distinct, but allied species. 



Achatinella mucida, n. sp. PI. X, fig. 23. 



Shell sinistral, very minutely perforated, solid, acuminately ovate 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



conic, apex rather acute; surface shining, marked with fine growth 

 lines, and under a lens decussated hy very delicate, close, spiral 

 striae. The shell of an ashy gray color, irregularly distributed 

 over the surface, giving it a mucid appearance; with a dark brown 

 baud at the periphery which becomes sutural, extending both above 

 and below the suture, and a small patch of the same color around 

 the umbilicus ; also with a few inconspicuous brown lines on the 

 base and above the periphery, the latter continued above ; apical 

 whorls generally denuded of cuticle, and then of a light chestnut 

 color. Whorls 7, slightly convex; suture moderately impressed. 

 Aperture oblique, oval, livid white within; peristome acute, slightly 

 thickened within, expanded, basal and columellar margins nar- 

 rowly reflexed, light brown on both face and the reverse ; colu- 

 mella tinged with brown, terminating in a strong, plaited, project- 

 ing tooth. 



Length, 21 2 ; diam. 11 2 mm. 



Habitat, Makakupaia, Island of Molokai. 



This species is found in the region intervening between the habi- 

 tats of A. Redfieldii Newc. and A. compta Pse. ; and it has char- 

 acteristics connecting it with each of these species. It is smaller 

 than either, and differs from both in the coloration, particularly 

 from the former in the absence of the white sutural band. 



Aohatinella Anceyana, n. sp. PI. X, fig. 16. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, rather thin, ovately conical, apex ob- 

 tuse; surface shining, striated with fine growth lines, under 

 a lens exhibiting a beautiful pattern of close, delicate, decussating, 

 spiral striae, which extend to the very apex. Color reddish brown, 

 becoming paler towards the summit ; with two yellow bauds, a 

 broad one encircling the umbilical region, a narrow one at the 

 periphery, the latter margined above with a delicate white line, 

 which is continued on the spire just above the suture and becomes 

 lost on the third whorl; also with £ narrow white line revolving 

 below the suture to the very tip of the apex. Whorls 5, convex, 

 not marginate ; suture distinctly impressed. Aperture a little 

 oblique, oval, white, distinctly exhibiting the dark coloring of the 

 exterior; peristome acute, slightly thickened within, the coloring of 

 the outside appearing on the inner edge; columella brown, termi- 

 nating iu a well developed, flexuous fold. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Length, 14*; diarn. 9 mm. 



Habitat, Makawao, Island of Maui. 



Animal when extended in motion longer than the shell. Mantle 

 light brown mottled with black, outer edge encircled with an in- 

 terrupted orange band. Foot above and below a very light brown, 

 superior portion witb a slate tinge, posterior portion tapering and 

 sometimes with a yellowish tinge. Tentacles long, light slate. 

 Head above minutely granulated. 



This species was collected in the forests of the exterior slope of 

 the extinct Haleakala crater, at an altitude of 4,000 feet above sea 

 level. Owing to its peculiar habit of living on the foliage near 

 the tops of trees, it has escaped previous observation. 



The species has no known congeners. It is remarkable for the 

 constancy of its delicate color lines. Over 200 examples before 

 me show only trifling divergence in this respect. 



Named in honor of Mr. C. F. Ancey, whose publications have 

 contributed largely to our knowledge of Hawaiian land shells. 



Achatinella Horneri, n. sp. PI. X, figs. 20, 21, 22. 



Shell sinistral, minutely perforated, thin, globose with a short 

 acutely conical spire, apex acute ; surface shining, striated with fine 

 incremental lines, and under a lens exhibiting very close and deli- 

 cate decussating spiral stria;; embryonic whorls faintly crossdined. 

 Color dull white, encircled at the periphery with a faint brown zone 

 which is continued on the suture, also with a very small patch of 

 same color around the umbilicus. Whorls 6, the upper five slightly 

 convex, the last very much inflated, forming the greater part of the 

 shell; suture distinctly impressed. Aperture oblique, sub-rotund, 

 very large, white within, distinctly showing the external peripheral 

 bund ; peristome margined with light brown, rather thin, very 

 slightly thickened within, expanded, basal and columellar margins 

 narrowly rerlexed, extremities slightly converging and united by a 

 thin callus; columella light brown, very slightly developed, plain 

 and smooth. 



Length, 24; diam. 18 mm. 



Habitat, Hamakua, Island of Hawaii. 



Animal in motion longer than the shell. Mantle black, margined 

 with gray. Fool above and below gray, the superior portions 

 lightly granulated. Tentacles light gray. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



There occurs also a pure white form of the shell without the 

 peripheral band, and a form white with a light chestnut band on the 

 apical whorls. The animals of these varieties vary only a trifle 

 from that of the typical form. 



This species belongs to the group of A. physa Newc, but is 

 easily distinguished by its much more inflated body whorl and 

 smaller spire, its smoother and polished surface. The habitats of 

 the two species are widely separated, and the animals are entirely 

 different. The animal of A. physa, mantle and fuot, is a dingy 

 white with a greenish yellow tinge. 



We dedicate the species to Mr. J. Lewis Horner, the young natural- 

 ist to whom science is indebted for the discovery of this and the fol- 

 lowing species. They are valuable additions to the shells of the 

 Island of Hawaii, which has heretofore furnished only one described 

 arboreal species of Achatinella. 



Aohatinella Hawaiiensis, n. sp. PI. X, figs. 24, 25, 26. 



Shell sinistral, minutely perforated, very thin, acutely conical, 

 apex acute ; surface rather lusterless, covered with fine lines of 

 growth, and under a lens showing extremely close and delicate de- 

 cussating spiral lines ; nuclear whorls faintly decussated. Color 

 very variable, plain brown or dingy white, sometimes irregularly 

 striped or mottled with brown and white, the base generally uniform 

 brown, but sometimes with undulating markings of brown and 

 white ; the only constant characters being a brown, sometimes inter- 

 rupted, line at the periphery, bordered below with a broader white 

 line. Whorls 6, slightly convex, the last inflated. Suture lightly 

 impressed. 



Aperture oblique, oval, brown, the peripheral brown and white 

 bands distinctly marked within. Peristome acute, not thickened 

 within, external margin straight, basal expanded, the expanded 

 portion being very thin and fragile, the columella margin reflexed 

 over the minute perforation ; color white on both face and the 

 reverse. Columella white, very slightly developed, plain and 

 smooth. 



Length, 18 ; diam. IO2 mm. 



Habitat, Hamakua, Island of Hawaii. 



Animal when extended in motion longer than the shell. Mantle 

 almost white, margin of a darker shade. Foot above and below 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



dingy white, superior portion sometimes flecked with gray. Ten- 

 tacles of darker shade. 



The dentition is the same as that of the arboreal Achatinellas 

 generally. A central tooth is present ; and the formula of dentition 

 is 125-1-125x120=30,120. (Prof. Gwatkin.) 



This species also belongs to the group of A. physa Newc. , but 

 is readily distinguished by its much smaller size, smoother surface, 

 delicate lip, and arrangement of colors. The habitats are also 

 widely separated and the animals different. 



Achatinella Tlieodorei, n. sp. PI. X, fig. 27. 



Shell sinistral, subperforate, rather thin, elongately conical, apex 

 subacute ; surface shining, sculptured with somewhat irregular 

 incremental stride, and under a lens exhibiting extremely close and 

 minute decussating spiral stria) ; nuclear whorls smooth. Color 

 dingy white, striped and mottled irregularly with longitudinal dark 

 brown streaks. Whorls 7, lightly marginate above, slightly convex; 

 suture moderately impressed. Aperture oblique, oval, purplish 

 brown within ; peristome acute, margined with brown, very lightly 

 thickened within, columellar margin slightly reflexed ; columella 

 terminating in a slight, flexuous, brown fold. 



Length, 18 J ; diam. 9 mm. 



Habitat, Kawela, Island of Molokai. 



The animal has not as yet been observed. The shell belongs to 

 the group of small elongately conical Partulina for which Mr. Har- 

 per Pease proposed the name Perdicella as a subgeneric title. 



The nearest allied species is A. ornata Newc, which is of 

 much smaller size, more delicate markings, has a peripheral dark 

 band, and inhabits a different island. 



Seotion NEWCOMBIA Pfeiffer. 



Achatinella canalioulata, n. sp. PI. X, figs. 28 29. 



Shell sinistral, very minutely perforated, somewhat solid, acu- 

 minately turreted, apex subacute; surface sculptured throughout 

 with numerous acute, spiral keels, which become blunter as they 

 approach the apex, the interstices between the keels exhibiting 

 under a lens very delicate growth stria;. Color brown, upper 

 whorls tessellated with brown and white. Whorls 6, slightly con- 

 vex, lower one somewhat flattened at the base ; suture lightly 

 impressed. Aperture oblique, oval, iivid white or light brown 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



wit hiu ; peristome acute, very lightly thickened within, expanded, 

 columellar margin reflexed over the small perforation, margined 

 with light brown on both face and the reverse ; columella very 

 slightly developed, plain and smooth. 



Length, 14 ; diam. 65 mm. 



Habitat, Halawa, Island of Molokai. 



Animal when extended in motion as long as the shell. Mantle 

 slate color, margined with brown. Foot light slate, studded on the 

 sides and head above with spots of deeper shade. Tentacles short 

 and slender, dark slate. 



The nearest allied species is A. sulcata Pfr., from which it may 

 be distinguished by its smaller size and more acute keels ; the 

 animals also differ and the habitats are widely separated. 



Section LAMINELLA Pfeiffer. 

 Laminella helvina, a. sp. PI. XI, fig. 30. 



Shell sinistral, imperforate or subperforate, sometimes narrowly 

 and deeply perforated, rather thin, elougately conical, apex rather 

 acute; surface scarcely shining, covered with very fine incremental 

 stria; ; nuclear whorls smooth. Color uniform light or dingy yellow, 

 with a few black markings on the upper whorls. ^Vhorls 6£, 

 lightly margined above, convex ; suture deeply impressed. Aper- 

 ture a little oblique, oval, white, with the tint of the outside ; peri- 

 stome simple, thin, margins connected by a thin, orange-yellow 

 callus; columella biplicate, the terminal plication a thin, oblique 

 lamellar plait, the inner one less prominent, tortuous, of an orange 

 yellow color. * 



Length, 18; diam. 10 mm. 



Habitat, Ohia valley, near Kaluaaha, Island of Molokai. 



Animal extended in motion as long as the shell. Mantle and 

 foot above and below very light brown. Tentacles dark slate, with 

 a sprinkling of slate on the sides of the foot. Posterior portion 

 of foot very tapering and thickly studded with minute red spots. 

 A remarkably prolific species ; 4 or 5 embryonic shells in successive 

 stages of growth often observed in the oviducts. A jaw is present 

 and the dentition is the same as that of the Amastra species. The 

 tooth formula of this species is 32.1.32 x 108 = 7,020. The central 

 tooth is a little wider than usual. (Prof. Gwatkiu.) 



This shell differs from all its congeners in its strongly biplicate 

 17 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



columella, and the peculiar soft parts of the animal. The typical 

 forms are found in the small valley of Ohia on Molokai. Departing 

 from this locality on either side, modified forms without the hiplicate 

 columella are somewhat common. 



Laminella depicta, n. sp. Pi. XI, figs. 33, 34, 35. 



Shell sinistral, sometimes slightly perforated, rather thin, elong- 

 ately conical, apex subacute; surface shining, striated with very 

 delicate growth lines ; nuclear whorls smooth. Color light yellow 

 or reddish yellow, plain, or marked with numerous black, anastom- 

 osing veins ; apex almost black in some examples. Whorls 7, 

 faintly margined above, somewhat convex, suture distinctly im- 

 pressed. Aperture a little oblique, oval, white or pinkish, the 

 outside markings visible within ; peristome simple, very thin ; colu- 

 mella white, sub-biplicate, tortuous, abruptly terminating in a thin 

 lamellar plait. 



Length, 15$ ; diam. 6i mm. 



Habitat, Kamalo, Island of Molokai. 



Auimal extended in motion shorter than the shell. Mantle very 

 light brown. Foot above and below almost white. Tentacles short, 

 light brown. 



This species is allied, to A. Alexandri N ewe, from the Island 

 of Maui, and to A. Remyi Newc, from the Island of Lanai, 

 but differs from both in the color and habits of the animal. 



Section AM ASTRA H. & A. Adams. 

 Amastra pullata, u. sp. PI. XI, figs. 31, 32. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, solid, elongately ovate ; surface luster- 

 less, covered with rather close, irregular, growth striae ; the embry- 

 onic whorls finely radiately sulcated. Color light brown ; covered 

 with a black fugacious epidermis, dense on the last whorl, more 

 sparsely distributed on the upper whorls, worn oft' in front of the 

 aperture ; apex dark brown. Whorls 7, convex ; suture well 

 impressed. Aperture oval, a trifle oblique, white within with a pur- 

 plish tinge ; peristome acute, slightly thickened within, edge dark 

 purple; columella purplish white, flexuous, abruptly terminating in 

 a broad, thin, slightly arched lamellar plait. 



Length, 23 ; diam. 11 >V mm. 



Habitat, Waikolu, Island of Molokai. 



Animal extended in motion a trifle longer than the shell. Mantle 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



almost white with a slate tinge. Foot above and below almost 

 white, the posterior portion and edges densely studded with very 

 minute pink spots. Tentacles short, light slate, with a few spots 

 of the same color on the head above. 



All the Amastra species are terrestrial in their habits ; their form 

 of dentition is given in the preface to this article. The formula for 

 this species is L's. 1.28 X 99=5,645. (Prof. Gwatkin.) 



Unlike most of the Amastra, which generally have dark dingy 

 colored animals, this species has a beautiful, almost white animal. 

 The after portion and edges of the foot under a lens are seen to be 

 closely studded with minute pink spots which give these parts 

 a delicate pink hue. 



Amastra umbrosa, n. sp. PL XT. figs. 36, :57. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, solid, globosely ovate-conic ; surface 

 lustreless, covered with close, rather regular growth stria? ; the 

 lower whorls spirally malleated ; the embryonic whorls finely radi- 

 ately sulcated. Color white, apex dark chestnut ; nearly the whole 

 surface covered with irregular streaks of a black, fugacious epider- 

 mis, worn off in front of the aperture. Whorls 6, slightly convex, 

 the last somewhat inflated. Aperture ovate, a little oblique, white 

 within ; peristome acute, thickened within, expanded ; columella 

 white, fiexuous, abruptly terminating in a somewhat thick lamellar 

 plait. 



Length, 21 ; diam. 12£ mm. 



Habitat, Kamalo, Island of Molokai. 



Animal extended in motion longer than the shell. Mantle dark 

 brown with a margin of lighter shade. Foot light brown, the 

 superior portion and sides studded with large spots of deeper shade. 

 Tentacles short, stout, very dark brown. 



The formula of dentition is 28.1.28. The marginals take a pecu- 

 liar form. (Prof. Gwatkin. ) 



Amastra rubicunda, n. sp. PL XI, fig. 38. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, rather solid, elongately ovate-conic ; 

 surface lustreless, striated with irregular growth striae ; embryonic 

 whorls smooth. Color reddish, with traces of a deciduous, thin, 

 brown epidermis. Whorls 7, slightly convex ; suture well im- 

 pressed. Aperture elongately oval, a trifle oblique, rather small, 

 purplish red within ; peristome simple, thin, margined with dark 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



purple ; columella white with a purple tinge, fiexuous, abruptly 

 terminating in a thin, slightly curved lamellar plait. 



Length, 19 ; diam. 9 nun. 



Habitat ; Konahuanui Mt., Island of Oahu. 



Animal, mantle brown, margin of a deeper shade. Foot brown, 

 the superior portion almost black. The formula of the dentition is 

 18.10.1.10.18. (H. Suter. ) 



In form and general appearance this species resembles Amastra 

 variegata Pfr., which inhabits a different station, and is readily 

 distinguished by its less ruddy color, sulcated apex, and essential 

 difference of animal. 



Amastra undata, n. sp. PI. XI. fig, 39. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, solid, ovate, spire convexly conical, 

 apex rather acute, base somewhat attenuated ; surface lustreless, 

 closely and rather evenly ribbed in the direction of the growth 

 lines, the rib-stria? being slightly interrupted by several coarse, 

 transverse spiral lines, the nuclear whorls finely radiately sulcated. 

 Color light brown and dark chestnut, alternating in irregular longi- 

 tudinal undulations. Whorls 6, slightly convex ; suture moder- 

 ately impressed. Aperture a trifle oblique, sublimate, rather small, 

 white within ; peristome acute, slightly thickened within ; columella 

 white flexuous, abruptly terminating in a thin, slightly arched, 

 lamellar plait. 



Length, 17 ; diam. 12 mm. 



Habitat ; Nuuanu, Island of Oahu. 



This species is very rare and local in its distribution. Its princi- 

 pal features are the prominent rib-striae and the beautiful undulat- 

 ing markings of light and dark chestnut brown. 



Amastra badia, n. sp. PL XI, fig. 4i». 



Shell dextral, imperforate, rather thin, elongately ovate-conic; 

 surface shining, sculptured with delicate, rather close thread-like 

 rib-striae in the direction of the growth lines; embryonic whorls 

 radiately sulcated. Color dark chestnut-brown with light brown 

 zigzag or undulating lines and markings. Whorls 6£, slightly con- 

 vex; suture moderately impressed. Aperture oval, a trifle oblique, 

 livid white within, exhibiting the brown color of the exterior; peris- 

 tome acute, very lightly thickened within; columella white, flex- 

 uous, abruptly terminating in a thin, slightly arched lamellar plait. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIJjAESE.LP.HIA. 231 



Length, 202 ; diam. 10] mm. 



Habitat, Ewa, Island of Oahu. 



The distribution of this species, as far as observed, is quite limited. 

 We do not know of any species approaching it in form or specific 

 characteristics. Its somewhat smooth and polished surface dis- 

 tinguishes it from most of the species of the Amastra section. 



Amastra pellucida, n. sp. PI. XI. figs. 41, 42. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, very fragile, thin, translucent, glo 

 hosely conic, apex rather acute; surface lusterless, sculptured with 

 fine incremental lines, apical whorls smooth. Color light-brown, 

 apex darker; destitute of epidermis. Whorls 5£, somewhat convex; 

 suture moderately impressed. Aperture oval, a trifle oblique, 

 livid-white within; peristome simple, thin; columella white, ilexuous, 

 abruptly terminating in a thin lamellar plait. 



Length, 12]; diam. 8 mm. 



•Habitat, Waianae Valley, Island of Oahu. 



Animal of a uniform brown color; the head above and tentacles 

 of a darker shade. The action of the heart is plainly visible 

 through the thin texture of the shell. When first collected the 

 pulsations were about fifty per minute, growing slower and fainter 

 from day to day until the animal died. 



This species is well characterized by its thin pellucid texture, 

 globose form, abbreviated spire, and light brown color. 



Amastra breviata, n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 45. 4t;. 



Shell dextral, very minutely perforated, rather thin, globosely 

 conical, apex rather acute ; surface not polished, covered with fine 

 incremental lines, the nuclear whorls smooth. Color corneous- brown, 

 destitute of an epidermis. Whorls 6, slightly convex; suture well 

 impressed. Aperture a trifle oblique, oval, livid-white within, 

 showing the color of the exterior; peristome simple, thin, extremities 

 joined by a thin white or brown callosity; columella white, flexuous, 

 abruptly terminating in a thin lamellar plait. 



Length, 12?; diam. 1\ mm. 



Habitat, Palolo and Halawa, Island of Oahu. 



This shell approaches the preceding species in its form; but may 

 be readily distinguished by its thicker texture and darker color. 

 The habitats are also widely separated and the animals differ. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Amastra tenuispira, n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 51. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, solid, acuminately turreted, spire 

 conical, apex subacute; surface lustreless, covered with somewhat 

 rude, irregular incremental striae; the embryonic whorls very finely, 

 radiately sulcated. Color light-brown, upper whorls darker ; 

 covered with an earthy brown, fugacious epidermis. Whorls 7, 

 somewhat convex, in some examples slightly margined above; suture 

 well impressed. Aperture oval, oblique, rather small, light-brown 

 within; peristome simple, acute, extremities united with a thin cal- 

 losity; columella sub-biplicate, light-brown, tortuous, abruptly 

 terminating in an oblique, dentiform plait. 



Length, 17; diam. 6' mm. 



Habitat, Kaala Mr., Island of Oahu. 



This species is very local in its habitat. Its only congeners are 

 the elongate forms Amastra Hidchinsonii Pse., which inhabits East 

 Maui, and Amastra moesta Newc. from the island of Lanai. The 

 former is remarkable as the only known sinistral species of the 

 Amastra section, and is also distinguished by its invariably white 

 aperture and columella fold. The latter species is characterized by 

 its more obese form and peculiar columella. 



Amastra nana, n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 48, 49. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, rather thin, ovately conical, apex sub- 

 acute ; surface lustreless, striated with fine incremental lines, the 

 2-V embryonic whorls finely, radiately sulcated. The color varies 

 from light to dark brown, the basal half of the body whorl some- 

 times of lighter shade than the upper portion ; covered with a black 

 or earthy- brown, fugacious epidermis, often laid on with alternating 

 undulations, or zigzag markings. Whorls 6, somewhat convex ; 

 suture well impressed. Aperture oval, a little oblique, white with 

 a purplish tinge ; peristome simple, very thin ; columella purplish- 

 white, rlexuous, abruptly terminating in a thin lamellar plait. 



Length, 111; diam. 6] mm. 



Habitat, Makawao, Island of Maui. 



Animal when extended in motion as long as the shell. Mantle 

 light brown. Foot above and below brown with spots of deeper 

 shade on the sides. Tentacles and front above almost black. 



This is one of the smaller of the Amastra forms. It is about the 

 size of Amastra petricolor Newc. from Molokai, and Amastra umbili- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



eata Pfr. from Oahu; species* possessing entirely different charac- 

 teristics. 



Common, but very local in its distribution, in a belt of forest land 

 about 4,000 feet above sea level. 



Amastra antiqua, n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 47. 



Shell fossil, dextral, narrowly but deeply perforated, the perfora- 

 tion penetrating almost to the apex; solid, elongately ovate, apex 

 subacute ; surface sculptured with rude, irregular lines of growth, 

 I he apical whorls smooth. Color of the Hying shell unknown. 

 Whorls 6, convex ; suture well impressed. Aperture a trifle oblique, 

 sublimate; peristome thickened within, columellar margin adnate, 

 slightly expanded over the umbilicus, extremities somewhat converg- 

 ing and united by a thick parietal callosity; columella rlexuous, 

 terminating in a narrow plait. 



Length, 20; diam. 12 mm. 



Habitat, Ewa, Island of Oahu. 



We received this- species from Prof. A. B. Lyons, of Oahu Col- 

 lege. He reports that he found at Ewa a singular accumulation of 

 these and other fossil land shells, huddled together in one spot in a 

 bed of soft tufa-like material, at an altitude not far above sea level. 

 The existence of living examples of this and the following species 

 now, or within any recent period, is highly improbable. 



Amasta vetusta, n. sp. Pi. XI. fig. 50. 



Shell fossil, dextral, imperforate, solid, ovately conical, apex rather 

 acute; surface sculptured with somewhat regular, close rib-strise in 

 the direction of the growth lines, with a few faint cross lines ; the 

 embryonic whorls radiately sulcated. Color of living shell unknown. 

 Whorls 6i, very slightly convex; suture lightly impressed. Aper- 

 ture siuuately oval, a little oblique ; peristome flatly blunt, thickened 

 on the inner edge, margins united with a thick callosity ; columella 

 flexuous, abruptly terminating in a small, thin plait. 



Length, 13; diam. 7 2 mm. 



Habitat, near Honolulu, Island of Oahu. 



This species was also discovered by Prof. Lyons. It occurs near 

 the base of Punchbowl Hill, at an altitude of twenty or thirty feet 

 above sea level, in a conglomerate of volcanic tufa and sand cemented 

 together with carbonate of lime. Prof. Lyons thinks the shells 

 must have lived near the spot where they are now found embedded 




'234 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



in the rock, as there is no satisfactory way to account for their 

 transportation from any distance. If so, the conditions of climate 

 when the shells flourished in that locality, must have been quite 

 different from those of the present time. 

 Amastra cyclostoma, n. sp. PI. XT, fig. 53. 



Shell dextral, narrowly but deeply perforated, the perforation 

 penetrating to the apex, somewhat solid, oblately globular with a 

 short conical spire, apex acute ; surface lustreless, sculptured with 

 close, obliquely descending, flexuous growth lines, which become con- 

 centric around the umbilicus ; the embryonic whorls smooth or with 

 delicate, radiating suleations. Color brown, darker on the spire. 

 Whorls 6, the upper ones rather flat, rapidly increasing; the last 

 one large, forming the greater part of the shell, strongly angled at 

 the periphery, the angle becoming almost obsolete towards the aper- 

 ture, deflexed in front a trifle below the carina, surface above the 

 angle flat, slightly convex towards the aperture, and rounded below 

 the, angle ; suture well impressed. Aperture very oblique, sinuately 

 circular, a small segment cut off by the penultimate whorl, livid- 

 white within, exhibiting the exterior coloring through its substance: 

 peristome rather obtuse, slightly thickened within, unreflected, ex- 

 tremities slightly converging and united by a very thin callosity; 

 columella livid-white, broad and flat, terminating in a slight, flexu- ' 

 ous plait. 



Altitude, 15; diam. 18 mm. 



Habitat, Makaweli, Island of Kauai. 



Animal when extended in motion. 95 inch in length; posterior 

 portion of foot tapering and very short, front portion long; head 

 elongated, ocular and labial tentacles widely separated. Mantle 

 dingy-white with streaks of black. Foot very light brown, superior 

 portion and sides thickly studded with regular, dark brown granula- 

 tions. Tentacles long, dark brown. 



This species belongs to the same group as Amastra sphavrica Pse. 

 and Amastra heliciformis Anc. , but may be readily distinguished from 

 both by its much larger size and more inflated body whorl. 



Amastra Knudsenii, n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 13, 14. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, solid, elongately ovate, spire conical, 

 apex subacute ; surface lustreless, coarsely and irregularly wrinkled 

 by growth striae ; embryonic whorls very finely radiately sulcated. 




1 895. ] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Color very dark brown, tending to a lighter shade on the elevated por- 

 tions of the lower whorl. Whorls 7, the three lower ones strongly 

 angulated a little below the suture, the last one with a cord-like keel 

 at the periphery and numerous coarse cross striae above and below 

 die periphery; suture well impressed. Aperture oblique, elongately 

 oval, dark purple inside with a satin-like lustre; peristome acute, 

 not thickened within; columella terminating in a long, narrow, 

 Hexuous, pearly-white plait. 



Length 33; diam. 17 mm. 



Habitat: Halemanu, Island of Kauai. 



Both this species and Amastra Kauaiensis Newc. are characterized 

 by the long, flexuous thread-like columellar plait which is peculiar 

 to the genus ( 'arelia of Kauai. Examination of the animals may 

 prove them both aberrant forms of that genus. 



The species is very rare. We dedicate it to Mr. A. Knudsen," the 

 young naturalist who discovered it. He writes that, it is of very 

 limited distribution, being found far up the mountain only in an 

 isolated tract of wood land which escaped the forest fires of twenty 

 years ago. In three days' diligent search he found only twelve 

 living examples. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



The figured types are, with the exceptions noted below, in the col- 

 lection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, bearing the numbers 

 quoted in parenthesis. 



Plate X. 



Figures. 



Figs. 1, 2. Achatinella multizonata Baldwin (65,703) 



" 3, 4. Achatinella Juddii Baldwin (65,709) 



" 5, 6. Achatinella Ernestina Baldwin (65,706) 



" 7,8. Achatinella luteostoma Baldwin (65,704,65,70"), 



" 9. Achatinella Lyonsiana Baldwin (65,693) 



" 10. Achatinella Lyonsiana var. (coll. Baldwin) 



" 11. Achatinella Lyonsiana var. (65,694) 



" 12, 13. Achatinella Lymaniana Baldwin (coll. Baldwin) 



" 14. Achatinella vespertina Baldwin (65,699) 



" 15. Achatinella Cookei Baldwin (65,692) 




286 proceedings of the academy of [1895. 



Figures. 



16. Achatinella Anceyana Baldwin (65,707) 



17, 18. Achatiuella Dolei Baldwin (65,690) 



19. Achatinella nivea Baldwin (65,691) 



20. Achatinella Horneri Baldwin (65,702) 



21. Achatinella Horneri var. (65,700) 



22. Achatinella Horneri var. (65,701) 



23. Achatinella mucida Baldwin (65,708) 



24. Achatinella Hawaiiensis Baldwin (65,695) 



25. Achatinella Hawaiiensis var. (65,696) 



26. Achatinella Hawaiiensis var. (65,698) 



27. Achatinella Theodorei Baldwin (65,710) 



28. 29. Achatinella canaliculata Baldwin (65,713) 



Plate XI. 

 Figures. 



30. Laminella helvina Baldwin (65,712) 



31, 32. Araastra pullata Baldwin (65,715) 

 33, 34, 35. Laminella depicta Baldwin (65,711) 

 36, 37. Amastra unihrosa Baldwin (65,714) 



38. Amastra ruhicuuda Baldwin (65,719) 



39. Amastra uudata Baldwin (65,722) 



40. Amastra badia Baldwin (coll. Baldwin) 



41. 42. Amastra pellucida Baldwin (65.721) 

 43, 44. Amastra Knudseni Baldwin (65,725) 

 45, 46. Amastra breviata Baldwin (65,723) 

 47. Amastra antiqua Baldwin (65,716) 

 4.8, 49. Amastra nana Baldwin (65,718) 



50. Amastra vetusta Baldwin (65,717) 



51. Amastra tenuispira Baldwin (65,720) 



52. Achatinella Lyonsiaiia Baldwin. Rhachidian tooth with 

 two adjacent lateral teeth. 



53. Amastra cyelostoma Baldwin (65,724) 



54. Amastra rubicunda Baldwin jaw. 



55. Achatinella Dolei Baldwin, a chitinous membrane, 

 and b radula, as obtained after treatment with 

 caustic potash. 



56. Amastra rubicunda Baldwin. Rachidian teeth, 

 with 1st, 2d and 10th lateral teeth, and mar- 

 ginals 14, 25 and 28. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE DENTITION OF ACHATINELLIDiE. 



3Y H. M. GWATKIN AND HENRY SUTER, WITH PREFATORY NOTE 



BY II. A. PILSBRY. 



The dentition of the Ackatinellidce has already heen investigated 

 by Heyneraann 1 and by W. G. Binney. The latter author, in 

 co-operation with Thomas Bland, 2 has published several papers 

 upon the subject, and to him is due the credit of discovering that 

 within the group commonly known as Achatinella, two extremely 

 different types of dentition exist. 



The first, including Achatinella s. dr., Partulina and Tornatellina 

 is characterized by an excessively delicate jaw (which is completely 

 lost in potash preparations), and teeth arranged en chevron, in very 

 oblique transverse rows, all of the peculiar form shown in Plate XI, 

 fig. 52, and found also in Athoracophorus, etc. The shells of this 

 group are glossy or brilliant, and the animal is arboreal. 



The second type is seen in the groups Amastra, Labiella, New- 

 combia, Laminella and Leptachatina. Here the jaw is stronger, 

 arched, and smooth or striate. The teeth are arranged in nearly 

 straight transverse rows, and are of the type found in Achatina and 

 Rumina, differing from the teeth of Helicidse in the narrowness of 

 the rhachidian row (see PI. XI, fig. 56). The shell is dull in the 

 majority of the species of this group, and the animal is in most 

 cases terrestrial in habit. 



Allied to the last in dentition, but distinct in its strongly .ribbed 

 jaw, is the genus Carelia, which thus constitutes a third primary 

 group of Achatinellidse. 



These three groups are, there can be no reasonable doubt, of 

 generic rank, and will bear the following names: 



1. Genus Achatinella Swainson, 1828. Contains the sectional 

 divisions mentioned above, with some others. Of this generic term, 

 Helicter of Pease and Fischer is a synonym. There is no reason - 



1 Malak. BL, 1869. A. bulimoides. 



2 Annals of the Lyceum of Nat. Hist of New York, X, p. 331, 1873; Ibid. 

 XI, p. 190; Annals of the N. Y. Acad. Sciences, III, pp. 96, 103. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



able excuse for reviving Ferussac's term Helicteres, for it was not 

 intended as a generic or sub-generic name by Ferussac, and is 

 improper in form. Its use would open the door to an endless series 

 of vagaries in nomenclature, as any one who examines Ferussac's 

 original publication may see. 



2. Genus Leptacnatina Gould, 1848. Contains Amastra, New- 

 combia, etc. 



3. Genus Carelia H. and A. Ad., 1855. 



The relationships of these genera and their subgenera will prob- 

 ably be decided by a study of their genitalia, which the writer hopes 

 to undertake later; and these data will also aid in deciding whether 

 the Achatinellidse constitute a separate family, or are merely a 

 division of Achatinidse. 



The following notes materially increase the list of species of which 

 the dentition is known, and tend to strengthen the views advanced 

 by Binney in the publications noticed above. 



The Dentition of the Achatinella. By H. M. Gwatkin. 



Molluscous radulse are in general fairly uniform in the species of a 

 genus, and form a very trustworthy character. The chief anomalies 

 are in a few families like the Buccinichv, where the individual varia- 

 tion is greater than the specific, and in a few species where radulse of 

 two or more types are found, like Phasianella and Calliostoma among 

 the marine genera, B'ulimidus and Cylindrella among the terrestrial. 



Achatinella is a conspicuous instance of the latter class. We find 

 in it two well-marked and very distinct types of radula, viz.: 



(a). Jaw missing, radula broad, oblong, teeth very numerous, 

 en chevron (rows sloping obliquely backward). Centrals (if present), 

 laterals and marginals, all of the same type: Base narrow, head 

 rather* broad, with four, five, six or seven small tentacles (exactly as 

 in Janella and Tornatellina and the marginals only of Siicchiea). 



To this section belong : 



Achatinella *nivea Bald. 



A. *Anceyana Bald. 



A. *bella Rve. 



A. *canaliculata Bald. 



A . cinnamomea Pfr. 



A. Dwightii Newc. 



A. eburnca ( Jul. 



.1. *JHawaiiensis Bald. Formula. 



l23—l2- r > x. 120=30,120 

 A. Hbrneri Bald. 

 A. marmorata Gld. 



A. *Mighelsiana Pfr. 



A. Natti Bald, and Hartm. 



A. perdix Rve. 



A. proxima Pse. 



A. *pulcherrima Swains. 



A. Bedfieldii Newc. 



.1. rhodoraphe Sin. 



A. silica hi Pfr. 



A. Hessellata Newc. 



A. *virgulata Migh. 



Auriculella brunnea Smith. 




1<S95.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



All these are practically indistinguishable, except that those 

 marked with an asterisk seem to have a central tooth. 



(I)). Jaw arcuate, strong,, not ribbed. Radula oblong, not wide. 

 Teeth quadrate, in nearly straight rows. Centrals small, narrow, 

 sometimes faintly tricuspid; laterals larger, bicuspid; marginals 

 bicuspid or multicuspid as in Helix. 



To this section belong: 



Achatinella assimilis Xewc, 



27.1.27X98 5,390 

 A. h( Ivina Bald. ■;._>. i..;j x 108=7,020 

 A. labiata Newc. 

 . 1. Masti rsi Newc. 



A. nana Bald. 



A . pullata Bald . 28. i.js x 99=5,643 



A . si m ih iris Hartm. 



A. umbrosa Bald. 



Here again, though there are small differeuces in the number of 

 teeth, the varieties of shape are very trifling. The central tooth of 

 A. helvina is a little wider than usual, and the marginals of .4. 

 umbrosa take a peculiar form; but neither of these variations seems 

 important. 



On the Dentition of some new Species of Heeicter. By 



Henry Suter. 



Some time ago Mr. D. D. Baldwin kindly sent me the animals of 

 some species of Reliefer for examination of their dentition, and I 

 herewith give a short report. 



Helicter (Apext Cookei Baldwin. 

 Helicter iBulimella) Lyonsiana Baldwin. 

 Helicter (Partulina) Dolei Baldwin. 



These three species perfectly agree in the peculiarity of their 

 dentition. There is no jaw, only a chitiuous, transparent membrane 

 PI. XI, fig. 55, a, covering the lips. The radula, PI. XI, tig. 55, b, 

 forms a tube, compressed sidewise, with numerous folds; part of it 

 »> bent backward anteriorly, forming a collar. The teeth of the 

 radula PI. XI, fig. 52, oc 1 oo, form oblique rows at an angle of 

 about 80°. The rhachiclian tooth is long and slender, with a small 

 reflection and two minute cutting points in II. Lyonsiana, no reflec- 

 tion could be seen in the two other species. The laterals and mar- 

 ginals are all alike, the denticles varying in number from five to 

 six, in the last marginals from four to two; these teeth very much 

 resemble the marginals of Succinea. The dentition is the same in 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



all the three species, though they belong to different sections of 

 Helicter, all of which are arboreal. 

 Helicter (Amastra) rubicunda Baldwin. , 



Helicter (Amastra), n. sp. 



These two species, belonging to the same section; differ very 

 much in dentition from the foregoing species. The jaw, PI. XI, 

 tig. 54, is solid, dark brown, horse-shoe-shaped, and beautifully 

 finely striated vertically. The radula is tongue-shaped, the teeth 

 arranged in almost straight transverse rows, and they are very 

 much the same in both species, varying only in their number. Thus 

 Amastra rubicunda has the formula 18.10. 1.10. 18 and Amastra 

 n. sp. 22.12.1.12.22. It is hardly necessary to give a description 

 of the raduhe, fig. 56, showing the most characteristic teeth of A. 

 rubicunda. It niay, however, be mentioned that the rhachidiau and 

 the laterals resemble somewhat those of Achatina, but the marginals 

 are pectinate. The species of Amastra are not arboreal, but live 

 on the earth. 



Christchurch, New Zealand, August 8, 1894. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



NOTES ON THE VARYING HARES OF WASHINGTON AND BRITISH 

 COLUMBIA WITH DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SUB-SPECIES. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



In the determination of the relationships of the Varying Hare, Le- 

 pus americanus, of interior British Columbia it became necessary to 

 handle a larger number of specimens of this group from west of the 

 Rocky Mountains than has hitherto been available for study. This 

 material includes typical specimens of L. washingtoni from near 

 Puget Sound, four winter skins and ten skulls from near the Suoqual- 

 mie Pass, Washington, and four skins and six skulls from Hope, B. ( '., 

 kindly loaned me by Mr. Outram Bangs. It is to be regretted that 

 summer specimens of the Cascade Mountain form from Washing- 

 ton were not available as it is impossible to establish their relations 

 to typical washingtoni in any other way. On this account these 

 notes may be considered as merely preliminary to a more thorough 

 investigation of material now being collected in these regions. 



A comparison of a large series of skulls from the Cascades and 

 lowlands of Washington convinces me that washingtoni is specifi- 

 cally distinct from americanus and it is probable that the form of 

 washingtoni found in the higher Cascades is a well-marked race. 

 The cranial characters, taken from average adult skulls from Maine 

 and Puget Sound, which separate americanus and washingtoni, may 

 be thus stated. 



Ij. americanus L. washingtoni 



Postorbital processes wide, and Postorbital processes slender, 

 flaring their internal posterior J the posterior margins straight or 



margins curved outwardly, their incurved, their points directed 



points directed outwardly and within the lateral sutures of the 



widely separated from frontal frontals, and in older specimens 



bones. Supraorbital processes of nearly touching them. Supraor- 



frontals strongly developed into bital margins of frontals serrate, 



a spur directed outwardly for- sometimes with a single rounded 



ward and forming, with the post- notch. 



orbital process — an anvil-shaped Incisive foramina jointly form- 

 promontory on each side the Iron- inga hastate figure with rounded 

 tals. apex and basally narrower than 



Incisive foramina, together at its median diameter. Great- 

 forming a regular isosceles trian- est triturating width of molars 

 gle the double creuate base being 4.2 mm; basilar length of skull 




242 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



L. washingtoni. 



56; zygomatic width 87; greatest 

 distance between outer alveoli of 

 right and left maxiliaries 20.7. 



L. americanus. 



the widest part of their expansion, 



and the apex acutely pointed. 

 Greatest triturating width of 

 molars 5 mm; basilar length of 

 skull 58; zygomatic width 37; 

 greatest outer distance between 

 alveolar walls of right and left 

 maxiliaries 24.5. 



It will be seen that the molar and incisor dentition of washing- 

 toni is relatively much weaker than in skulls of americanus of the 

 same size, with a corresponding narrowing of the palatal and rostral 

 area and a corresponding change in the shape of the incisive fora- 

 mina, the constancy of which, coupled with the peculiarity of the 

 frontal process, is to my mind quite sufficient for a specific separation 

 of the Pacific and Atlantic coast representatives of this group. 



The following diagnosis is of a hare whose cranial characters are 

 distinctly the same as those of skulls of americanus from Maine: 



Lepus americanus columbiensis sub sp. nov. Type, ad 9 , No. 462, Col. of S. N. 

 Rhoads, Vernon, B. Columbia. Col. by S. N. Bhoads, July 29, 1892 



Description. Size of average L. americanus. Summer pelage, 

 above, light tawny gray, blackish on rump, tail and anterior border 

 terminal of ears; anterior base of ears, crown, cheeks, upper fore leg 

 sides of hams and upper surfaces of feet light rusty, soles of feet 

 sooty. Inner fore and hind legs, lower head, lips, breast, fore part 

 of abdomen and spot in forehead, white. Lower neck like back. 

 Lower abdomen and tail bluish gray, suffused with rusty. Fur of 

 back with basal half plumbeous, median fourth light rusty, term- 

 inal fourth black, a few of the hairs wholly black and many with 

 minute black tip, and proportionally wider rusty median zone. 



Measurements. Total length 4G5 mm.; tail vertebrae 43 ; hind foot 

 L 40; ear (inner anterior border of dry skin), 72. Skull; total 

 length (occipito-nasal), 79; basilar length, 62; length of nasals, 32.5; 

 posterior interorbital constriction, 10.2; zygomatic expansion, 38; 

 greatest length of mandible, 58; greatest width of same, 35.5. 



This strongly marked race of the Varying Hare is represented by 

 the type and another adult female taken by me in June on the 

 Caribou Road, between Ashcroft and Clinton, B. C. It represents 

 the faunal peculiarities of the arid interior basin of southern British 

 Columbia, and may at once be distinguished from any of the vari- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



.it ions of americanus east of the Rocky Mountains by its grayness 

 and almost total lack of rufous above. From the Kooky Mountain 

 and east Cascade form which, for present purposes, may be called 

 bairdi, the color of the feet is a distinguishing character, while, as 

 compared with washingtoni, the differences in color and size are ob- 

 vious enough to need no comment. 



18 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895 



DISTRIBUTION OF THE AMERICAN BISON IN PENNSYLVANIA, "WITH 

 REMARKS ON A NEW FOSSIL SPECIES. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



Pennsylvania enjoys the distinction of being the scene of the most 

 easterly range of the buffalo, Bison bison, in North America. Dr. 

 J. A. Allen, whose excellent memoir on the American Bisons fur- 

 nishes the best data on this subject, has conclusively proved its ex- 

 istence up to the beginning of this century as far east us Buffalo 

 Valley, near Lewisburg, in Union County. The last buffalo killed 

 in that region was shot by Col. John Kelly, "about 1790 or 1<S00," 

 on the McClister farm adjoining his own, and situate in Kelly town- 

 ship, about live miles from Lewisburg. Col. Kelly stated that an 

 old Indian mimed Logan informed him of the former abundance of 

 buffaloes in this valley. In the map of its distribution, Dr. Allen 

 practically limits the range of the buffalo in the Keystone State to 

 the country drained by the Alleghany and Monongahela rivers, 

 which includes the region west of the Alleghany ridge on the south, 

 and on the north, from a point in Clearfield county to the eastern 

 shore of Lake Erie, westward. The movement east of this area is 

 supposed to have been limited to the mountain passes extending 

 along the west branch of the Susquehanna, to the forks below Lewis- 

 burg. 



Prof. Baird mentions, in the Patent Office Report of„1851, the ex- 

 istence of bones of this species in Pennsylvania caves and alluvial 

 deposits. Dr. Allen took the pains to search for the reported remains 

 taken by Prof. Baird in caves near Carlisle, but was unable to find 

 them, and on inquiry the Professor wrote Dr. Allen that a re-exami- 

 nation would be necessary in order to determine whether they are of 

 the bison, and if so of which species. The uncertainty of the 

 matter justly led Dr. Allen to ignore it and make the Lewisburg 

 record stand as the most easterly authenticated one for North 

 America. In 1873 Dr. Joseph Leidy described and figured 1 the 



1 Contrib. Ext. Vert. Fauna. Washington Terr., p. 255, pi. XXVIII. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



« 



second upper molar of a bison found at Pittston, Luzerne Co., Penn- 

 sylvania, in association with the remains of the mastodon and fossil 

 horse. This he identified as belonging to the extinct Bison latifrons. 

 Dr. Allien 1 contends that this tooth not only lacks the accessory 

 column characteristic of the genus Bison but "it is in any case too 

 small for a tooth of Bison latifrons," and thinks it "undoubtedly 

 referable to the extinct musk-ox." Having examined the speci- 

 men in question and compared it with corresponding teeth of 

 Bison-bison and the types of extinct muskox in the museum of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia I find that this 

 Pittston specimen is very much worn, the triturating surface hav- 

 ing reached to the alveolar base of the enamel on the anterior and pos- 

 terior sides. The roots of the tooth are intact, and comparison with 

 a corresponding molar removed from the jaw of an adult Bison bison 

 from Utah shows that the Pittston specimen is not materially larger 

 than the one from Utah. Owing to the wearing of these molar 

 teeth their triturating surface changes from an oblong, twice as long 

 as wide, to a nearly square figure of nearly twice the triturating area 

 seen in the teeth of a younger adult animal of same size. Dr. Leidy's 

 oversight of this fact was probably the reason for his identification of 

 the tooth as that of Bison latifrons, to which species, it may be re- 

 marked, he had referred larger specimens of the smaller B. antiquus. 



In this respect Dr. Allen's position is sound; the tooth is too small 

 to belong to latifrons. 



( )n the other hand it is impossible that the tooth belongs to the ex- 

 tinct musk-ox, the corresponding molar in that animal being nearly 

 twice as large in the type specimens preserved in the Museum of the 

 Academy. The accessory cusp of the molars of Ovibos cavifrons is 

 even more prominent than in Bison, so that the lack of this cusp in 

 the Pittston specimen as effectually removes it from one genus as from 

 the other, and I am inclined to consider the oval median islet in the 

 specimen as representing an abnormal displacement of the accessory 

 cusp of the genus Bison. If this is granted the other characters in- 

 dicate it to belong to Bison bison. 



Of interest in this connection are the Hist and third lower molars 

 of an adult bison, evidently from the same individual, which were 

 found in the collection of the Academy. These are mounted together 



The American Bisons, p. 1:2. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



> 



on a card with the name "Bison Americanus DeKay, Luzerne Co., 

 Pa." Accompanying them is a small card in Dr. Leidy's writing, 

 which reads: "With the fossil teeth from Luzerne Co., but appar- 

 ently more recent. Bison Americanus." I have compared these with 

 specimens of the recent animal and find them to be specifically iden- 

 tical. 



Waiving the question of the real status of the tooth figured by 

 Leidy from this locality, we may safely rest the eastward extension 

 of the habitat of Bison bison from Lewisburg sixty miles along the 

 north branch of the Susquehanna on the two lower molars. 



In the report of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey for 1887, 

 Dr. Leidy, in a paper on limestone cave fossils of the State, makes 

 the following statement in relation to certain bones found in Hart- 

 man's cave, Monroe County: — "With the remains of existing ani- 

 mals are those of a few species which no longer live in Pennsylvania 

 * -l- * represented by a few jaw fragments and teeth of the wood- 

 land reindeer, Rangifer caribou, and a lower jaw fragment with the 

 last molar tooth of the bison, B. Americanus." This jaw fragment 

 and its accompanying tooth are in the collection of the Academy. 

 They belonged to a full grown animal in its early prime. The crown 

 of the tooth has apparently been charred and crumbled by tire in 

 the same manner as other bones from this cave which surrounded 

 and lay within the site of an ancient fire place in the superficial 

 layers of the cave floor. The mandible, which is about, four inches 

 long and two inches wide and contains the alveoli of the three true 

 molars, is uuburnt and is apparently of the same recent age as the 

 remains of the fox, wolf and deer associated therewith. 1 have no 

 hesitation in considering Dr. Leidy's identification correct, and from 

 the character of the ethnological remains found in the same cave 

 and the appearance of the bone itself, would judge it had formed 

 part of the feast of a Delaware Indian in comparatively recent times. 

 This record extends the wanderings of Bison bison to the Delaware 

 Valhy. 



There is in the Academy's collection the basal portion of a horn- 

 core of a fossil bison taken from a closed limestone crevice in Dur- 

 ham cave on the bank of the Delaware near Riegelsville, Pucks 

 County. This specimen is of evident antiquity and apparently be- 

 longs to the leftside of the skull, having attached to the core a frag- 

 ment of the frontal bone, two and one-half inches square. The core 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



portion is five inches long superiorly and presents an unbroken up- 

 per surface three inches wide at base. The greater portion of the 

 posterior surface at the base is also intact but the anterior and in- 

 ferior surfaces have been destroyed. 



The greatest vertical diameter of the core may be approxi- 

 mated at three and one-half inches, the horizontal being slightly less. 

 From the disposition of the deep longitudinal grooves on its unin- 

 jured surface this core was probably eight or ten inches long. 



These measurements indicate an animal much larger than 

 the largest existing bison in America and approximate the size 

 of the smaller extinct bison, Bison antiquus of Leidy and 

 Allen. A remarkable character of the Durham cave specimen is 

 found in its curvature and the relative position to the frontal plate. 

 The superior longitudinal profile of the core is regularly convex 

 throughout, forming the arc of a circle whose radius is about twelve 

 inches; the posterior profile viewed from above is slightly concave, 

 the anterior is broken, but the direction of the grooves show it to 

 have been convex." The superior frontal arch viewed from behind 

 is slightly depressed from the base of core towards the median line of 

 the skull, but at a distance of one and one-half inches it rises to 

 a point which would touch the continued arc of the superior profile 

 of the core. The superior base surface of the core is very flat, 

 describing in a breadth of three inches when viewed along a line 

 at right angles to the skull, a regular arc whose radius is six inches. 

 The line of division between the base of core and frontal bone 

 lacks in a remarkable degree the osseous rugosity and prominence 

 seen in the other members of this genus. It this core belongs to 

 the left side of the skull, it very closely resembles the style of horn 

 seen in Bubalus buffelus (Blum.) in which the drop of the horn 

 is uniformly downward and backward from base to apex, the 

 skull and horn cores forming, when viewed from behind, a regular, 

 obtusely parabolic arch. Should it prove, however, that the speci- 

 men belongs to the right side, the drop is a forward one. There 

 is a suggestion of the genus Ovibos in the flatness and downward 

 growth of this horn, but a comparison of it with O. moschatus, 0. 

 eavifrons, and 0. bombifrons shows a radical difference. From 

 moschatus it is at once distinguishable by its narrowness and smooth- 

 ness at base of core, by its greater convexity and by the width of 

 intercorneal diameter of frontal bones; from eavifrons by the lack 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



of any marked depression of the intercorneal plate; from bombifrons 

 by its much greater size and by the flatness of horn core at superior 

 base, which, in bombifrons, is highly arched as in Bison bison. 

 The horn is also less abruptly depressed than in bombifrons, in this 

 character being intermediate between the lop horned type of Ovibos 

 and the erect type of bison, B. patifrons being in turn an inter- 

 mediate type between the Durham cave specimen and B. antiquus 

 which forms the last step toward the now existing B. bison, the 

 apical portion of whose horn cores is vertical when the skull is 

 poised at the normal facial angle of forty-five degrees. The striking 

 peculiarities of this fossil appear to me sufficient to warrant a new 

 specific name. I would propose Bison Appalachicolus sp. nov., 

 Type, No. 29, Col. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Phila., Durham Cave, 

 near Riegelsvslle, Bucks Co., Pa. Postpliocene. 



Regarding the question of the existence of B. bison in the valleys 

 of eastern Pennsylvania since the advent of the white man in 

 America, it is probable that it had been effectually driven from the 

 Delaware Valley long before that date. 



Indeed, from the scarcity of its remains and the absence of reliable 

 tradition of its presence in this locality, it is unlikely that this species 

 was ever more than a straggler in the regions east of the Susque- 

 hanna River drainage. It is not unlikely that the Carlisle cave 

 specimens will be found to belong to the same species, as originally 

 identified by Prof. Baird. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



May 7. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 



May 14. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-five persons present. 



The death of Eckley B. Coxe, a member, was announced. 

 Dr. Vickera Oberholtzer read a paper on the geology of the 

 Island of GEland. (No abstract). 



May 21. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Fifty-five persons present. 



The death of Henry John Carter, of London, Eng. , a correspon- 

 dent, was announced. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



"The Extinction of Species." By Charles Morris. 



"Synopsis of the Stizini of Boreal America." By Wm. J. Fox. 



"Protoptychus Hatcheri, a New Rodent from the Uinta Eocene." 

 By Win. B. Scott. 



"The Jelly-like Secretion of the Fruit of Peltandra undulata." 

 By Ida A. Keller. 



May 28. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



A memoir of John Howard Redfield, by Thomas Meehan, was 

 presented for publication. 



Wra. J. Gillespie, M.D. and H. G. Griffith, M.D., were elected 

 members. 



The following were ordered to lie printed: 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF - PHILADELPHIA. 251 



THE PRIORITY OF THE NAMES CALLISTE, AGLAIA AND CALOSPIZA 

 AND THEIR USE IN ORNITHOLOGY. 



BY WITMER STONE 



Although the name Collide has long been in general use for a 

 large genus of South American tanagers, a careful examination into 

 its history seems to show that it is untenable in this connection and 

 that we must adopt in its stead the name Calospiza proposed by G. 

 R. Gray in 1840. 



The birds which constitute this genus were separated from the old 

 genus Tanagra almost, simultaneously by two authors, Boie proposing 

 for them the name Calliste (Isis, 1K26, p. 974) and Swainson the 

 name Aglaia (Zool. .lour, iii, 1827, p. M47). 



In 1840 G. R.' Gray established another name for the same 

 groups: Calospiza, (List of Genera of Birds, p. 44) stating that 

 both the previous names were preoccupied by Callistus Bonelli, 1813, 

 in Coleoptera and Atjlaen Loureiro, 1 7>S(), in Botany. Cabanis 

 adopted Gray's name emending it into Callospiza but subsequent 

 writers have continued to use Calliste though several of them have 

 subdivided the genus and proposed several additional names for their 

 groups which are generally considered as synonyms. However we 

 may regard the reasons which influenced Gray in proposing the 

 name ( 'alospiza there is certainly no question but that there are other 

 facts in the case which compel us to adopt his name. 



Some time ago Mr. T. S. Palmer called my attention to the fact 

 that the name Callista had been proposed by Poli in 1791, for a 

 genus of mollusks and asked me to examine the reference in Poli's 

 work to which he had not access. 



With the assistance of Prof. H. A. Pilsbry, Conservator of the 

 Conchological Section of the Academy, I have carefully studied 

 the history of this name. It was based by Poli (Testacea utriusque 

 Sicilian, Vol. I, Introduction, p. o0) upon the animals of several 

 species of Venus, Mactra, etc., and was subsequently restricted by 

 Moerck who fixed Venus chloue as the type. Subsequent concholo- 

 gists have used the name in a variety of ways but according to the 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



present rules of nomenclature it seems that it mu?t be adopted for 

 the genus now known as Cytherea and in any case it precludes the 

 use of ( 'attiste in ornithology. 



As regards Aglaia, while its previous use in botany does not, ac- 

 cording to our present canons of nomenclature, preclude its use in 

 ornithology, I find, nevertheless, that it is equally as untenable as 

 < 'alliste. 



In 1804 Renier (Prospetto della Classe dei Vermi, p. 16) proposed 

 Aglaja for a genus of mollusks now generally known as Doridium, 

 hut for which Aglaia must be revived as recently pointed out by 

 Prof. Pilsbry. 



In 1825 Escholtz proposed Aglaia for a genus of Siphonophora, 

 and as these authors both antedate Swainson's publication, the name, 

 of course, cannot be used in ornithology. 



Subsequently Aglaia has been proposed in 1850, by Albers, for 

 another genus of mollusks and in 1869, by Brady, for a genus of 

 Crustacea, in both of which connections it is obviously untenable. 



In view of these facts ornithologists will, I think, be compelled to 

 adopt Gray's name for the genus of tanagers, the synonymy of which 

 will stand as follows : 



CALOSPIZA G. R. Gray 1840. 

 List of Genera of Birds, p. 44, type (J. tricolor fGm. ). 



1820. Calliste Boie, Isis, p. 974 (uec Callista Poli, 1791). 



L827. Aglaia Swain., Zool. Jour, iii, p. 347 (nee Aglaja Renier, 

 1804). 



1850. Callispiza Caban. , Mus. Hein., p. 26. 

 L850. Gyrola Reichenb., A v. Syst. Nat., lxxvii. 



1851. Tatao Bonap., C. R. , xxxii, p. 80. 

 1851. Callospim Bonap., C. R., xxxii, p. 80. 

 1851. Chrysothraupis Bonap., Rev. Zool., p. 142. 

 1851. Txothraupis Bonap., Rev. Zool., p. 143. 

 1851. Ghalcothraupis Bonap., Rev. Zool., p. 144, 

 1851. Eusehemon Sol., Contr. Ornith., p. 95. 

 1851. Euprepiste Scl., Contr. Ornith., 95. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



THE EXTINCTION OF SPECIES. 

 BY CHARLES MORRIS. 



The story of the disappearance of species of animals and plants 

 during the geological period, and their replacement by new species, 

 is much too obscure to attempt to solve except to a very partial 

 extent. Since life began upon the earth the process of extinction 

 has been seemingly incessant, and still continues so, Man being per- 

 haps the most efficient of all the many agents that have taken part 

 in this process. As a rule, the extinction of forms would appear to 

 have been gradual, and the simultaneous sweeping out of great 

 numbers of species, which is claimed occasionally to have taken 

 place, is open to question, from our lack of knowledge of the 

 length of time really involved. There are, however, two instances 

 in which such an extinction of numerous species within a com- 

 paratively brief interval appears certainly to have taken place, and 

 it is these which I propose particularly to consider. These are the 

 apparently sudden disappearance of great numbers of giant reptilian 

 forms at the close of the Cretaceous epoch, and their replacement in 

 the early Tertiary by numerous large mammals; and the similar 

 sudden disappearance of a considerable number of large mammals in 

 the Post-pliocene or the early Recent period, including the mammoth, 

 the American horse, the giant sloths, etc. Although no other than 

 general causes can be adduced for extinction as a whole, it may be 

 that some particular causes can be suggested in connection with 

 these two special instances. 



As an important preliminary to this investigation, some considera- 

 tion of the general causes of the disappearance of species is desirable. 

 In the first place it is improbable that many, if any, species have 

 ceased to exist in consequence of the direct assaults of other animals, 

 except in the case of Man's destructive agency. A species, whose 

 individuals are numbered by millions and whose range is ordinarily 

 very extended, is not easily to be disposed of. Animal hostility, 

 even when unrelenting and effective, is never governed by a fixed 

 purpose of destruction. Its aims are minor and individual; food, 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



not destruction, being its purpose. The only animals which act 

 largely together in the work of destruction are the ants, yet with all 

 their intelligent combination for this purpose it is almost certain that 

 no species of insect owes its extinction to ant aggression. Among exist- 

 ing animals there are certain carnivorous fishes whose destruction of 

 other, helplessspecies is annually enormous, yet these depleted species 

 far from disappearing, return each year in vast multitudes to their 

 feeding grounds. 80 far as existing evidence goes, then, it seems 

 probable that hostile aggression, while it may have occasionally been 

 an indirect, has rarely been the direct cause of the extinction of 

 species. 



It is equally doubtful if extinction has been due, as a general 

 rule, to lack of suitable food. This may have been the case with 

 certain invertebrates adapted to very narrow food conditions, and 

 with some highly specialized vertebrates, confined to a transitory 

 condition of the food-supply. But ordinarily the food-supply, at least 

 of vertebrates, is wide- spread and persistent, while most of the higher 

 animals have some power of variation in this respect, and can adapt 

 themselves to new kinds of food. It would seem most probable, on 

 the whole, that extinction of species has been generally due to indirect 

 rather than to direct influences. Species of animals and plants have 

 rarely, if ever, disappeared through their destruction by other species 

 as food, and rarely through a natural insufficiency of food. Most 

 probably the usual causes of destruction have been adverse con- 

 ditions of nature, and the competition of other species in the struggle 

 for food. 



Nature undoubtedly has been active in this work, her adverse 

 influences being violent ami wide-spread; storms, sudden and severe 

 changes in temperature, long- continued floods, extensive droughts, 

 and occasionally highly destructive volcanic or other convulsions. 

 To such influences entire species may in some instances have 

 succumbed, particularly where the adverse conditions were of long 

 continuance, while other species may have been so greatly reduced in 

 numbers and energy as to become incapable of sustaining themselves 

 against the competition of more vigorous rivals. Among recent 

 instances of this kind may be classed the destruction of large 

 numbers of cattle and other domestic animals on the western plains 

 iu winters of great severity and deep snow-fall. This destruction 

 takes place despite all the efforts of Man to prevent it, and would be 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



much greater but for human aid. On the other hand it must he 

 said that these animals have been removed from their native habitat, 

 and that their special exposure to danger is a result of Mans inter- 

 ference with nature's adaptations. 



Organic competition takes various forms. An indirect struggle 

 between species is constantly going on. The food supply is in every 

 case limited, and is the object of an increasing contest between the 

 individuals of a species and separate species, in which the most 

 vigorous individuals or the best adapted species are likely to win. 

 In this contest size and strength of a species are rarely assurance of 

 success. Size may be detrimental, as necessitating more food, while 

 strength is of little avail where the contest ants are not directly 

 pitted against each other. The mastodon, for example, needing 

 great quantities of herbage for its food supply, might, in cases of 

 severe drought, succumb to the food competition of the rabbit, or 

 some still more insignificant creature, which, spreading in vast 

 numbers over the country, devoured the sparse herbage and left its 

 huge competitor to starve. An army of locusts has more than once 

 ! nought great numbers of men to the verge of starvation, despite 

 Man's intelligent and combined resistance. The potato bug is 

 capable of depriving a nation of its food, and a blighting fungus may 

 destroy the crop upon which a whole people relies. It needs all 

 Man's care and prevision to prevent insect foes from destroying his 

 food supply. The lower mammalia have no modes of defence 

 against such assaults and no power of providing granaries of food 

 against times of need. Thus hosts of herbivora may have frequently 

 perished in consequence of an insect assault upon their food; and 

 numerous carnivora, thus deprived of their food, may have similarly 

 perished. Yet on the other hand, the lower plant-eating mammalia 

 an' much less exposed than Man to this special danger, from the 

 fact that few of them feed, like him, on fruits and seeds, their 

 general food supply being the abundant grasses, and the leaves and 

 twigs of trees, a supply which is much less likely to fail. 



An adverse influence, of the nature of direct assault, and one 

 which at times may have been enormously destructive, remains to 

 be mentioned. Tins is the aggressive action of the minute organisms 

 known as bacteria, of which the disease- producing species have at 

 times proved the most dangerous of all the known enemies of Man. 

 At present, however, the indications are that they are much less 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



destructive to the lower animals than to Man, the difference being 

 due to difference of life habits. Though bacteria and other disease- 

 producing agents may at times in the past have attacked species of 

 animals destructively, it is probable that they have played but a 

 minor part in the extinction of species. 



There is still another interesting natural condition to consider in 

 our review of the general causes of the extinction of species. One 

 tendency, which has particularly manifested itself in herbivorous 

 animals, has frequently led directly to their destruction. This is the 

 tendency to increase in size through the double influence of abund- 

 ance of food and little waste of tissue through exertion. In the 

 sluggish grass-eaters, dwelling on plains covered with rich herbage, 

 or leaf and twig eaters in tropical forests, the nutritive agencies are 

 in excess of those of waste, and these animals seem always to have 

 tended to an increase in size, until those of least exertion and 

 greatesl powers of obtaining food became enormous in dimensions. 

 An example of the same kind among the carnivora is the Green- 

 land whale, which, while feeding on minute forms, obtains them in 

 enormous quantities with little muscular exertion, and has in conse- 

 quence become of extraordinary dimensions. 



In the case of the herbivora this increase in size has exposed them 

 to increasing danger of starvation in cases of great drought, and from 

 the food competition of smaller but more numerous animals, and 

 many species may have became extinct through this cause. It is 

 probable that a struggle has long gone on between the two organic 

 tendencies — on the one hand to increase in bulk; on the other to 

 increase in activity — the victory finally falling to the smaller, more 

 active, and more mentally energetic forms, through their ability to 

 survive on less food and their superior powers of resistance to nature's 

 adverse influences. ft is perhaps mainly due to this that the bulky, 

 sluggish and mentally dull creatures of the past have given way to 

 the smaller but more active and intelligent animals of the present. 



This leads us directly to the problem of the disappearance of the 

 great Cretaceous reptiles — the first of the two special cases to be con- 

 sidered. The influences described may have had something to do with 

 this event, but are far from sufficient to explain the sudden dis- 

 appearance of so many species of animals of varied habitat, food and 

 conditions of life. However far land animals may have been 

 thus affected, the great ocean reptiles could hardly have succumbed 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



to these influences. Nature lias been frequently credited with this 

 destructive work, some world-wide convulsion being called in to do 

 duty as an efficient agent. But this cataclysmic theory has been 

 largely over-employed, and could hardly have confined its ravages to 

 the larger reptiles, of sea and 'land alike, while leaving the smaller 

 reptiles and the contemporary mammals unharmed. 



In seeking to discover some adequate cause for so great a natural 

 event, one destructive agency, not as yet" mentioned, offers itself as a 

 not improbable explanation. It is one neither of inorganic action, of 

 food competition nor of direct assault. On the contrary it is a kind 

 of indirect assault — an assault not on the animals themselves, but on 

 their eggs and young. This destructive influence is one that is very 

 prevalent in the animal world. It is efficient in keeping down the 

 numbers of prolific forms at present, and may have had much to do 

 with the extinction of species in the past. It is a danger to which 

 the mammalia are exposed only in the case of their young, and in 

 this case only to a minor degree, from their vigilant care of their 

 young; but to which the fish, reptiles and birds are exposed in the 

 case of their eggs as well. The evolution of instinct has taught 

 birds to care for their eggs and young, and thus in great measure to 

 escape this peril. In reptiles this instinct of carefulness is very 

 little developed, and in fishes scarcely at all. Fish species, indeed, 

 eseape annihilation mainly through fecundity. Though myriads of 

 their eggs and young are devoured, enough escape to ensure the con- 

 tinuance of the species. The reptiles are intermediate between the 

 birds and the fishes in these particulars, less prolific than the latter, 

 less careful than the former. Existing reptiles take little or no care 

 of their young and rarely any special care of their eggs. The 

 turtles conceal theirs very skilfully in the sand and leave them t<> 

 chance and secrecy for safety; the young, when hatched, being very 

 agile in their escape to the water. But eggs and young alike have 

 their enemies. The former are often discovered and devoured; the 

 latter have numerous foes in and out of the water. Only a mere 

 fraction of the brood escapes to keep alive the species. The crocodile 

 lays its eggs in the warm sand, or in a heap of mud or decaying 

 vegetation, and pays no further attention to them. The alligator is 

 more careful, keeping some measure of watch and ward over its eggs. 

 The existing laud reptiles — the snakes, lizards and land turtles — as 

 a rule, pay but little attention to the fate of their eggs and young, 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



and in many cases leave them largely to chance, their sole trust 

 being in concealment. 



The degree of care paid by existing reptiles to the fate of their 

 eggs, small as it is, may have been the result of a long-continued 

 struggle for existence. As the activity and ingenuity of their foes 

 increased, so may have increased reptilian care and fecundity. 

 Probably ages ago both less heed was given to the security of the 

 eggs than now and the peril was less imminent. There has very 

 likely been a campaign of education on both sides. Yet it may be 

 that the continued existence of the modern reptilian families is in a 

 measure due to some degree of care always exercised over their eggs. 

 And it is possible that little care may have been taken by the giant 

 Mesozoic reptiles, and that their extinction was largely due to this 

 cause. 



The views here expressed certainly lead us to a fuller compre- 

 hension of the situation in which the Cretaceous reptiles were placed. 

 These creatures, large and small alike, were egg layers, and their 

 eggs and young were exposed to the peculiar dangers above indi- 

 cated. To what extent they took care of their eggs we cannot know, 

 but to judge from the habits of existing reptiles their care was not 

 great. \Ve are aware that these huge creatures possessed very 

 small brains, and must conceive that they possessed little or no 

 intelligence, being governed in great measure by the instincts 

 acquired during past ages of slow development. These instincts 

 were gained at an early period in which the eggs were little exposed 

 to danger and stood in no great need of protection. They were likely 

 to be of little avail in an age in which the growing intelligence ol the 

 smaller animals may have greatly increased the danger in this 

 direction. 



As regards the great ocean reptiles of the period in question, their 

 vulnerable point was undoubtedly in their habit of egg-laying, since, 

 like their modern representatives, the turtles, they must have laid 

 their eggs on the shores — perhaps with some effort at concealment in 

 the sand — and left them to nature and fortune. The great land 

 reptiles were probably little if any more heedful, if we may judge 

 from the habits of existing land reptiles, whose small degree of care 

 is in part an outcome of later evolution. Again, those huge creatures 

 probably laid hut lew eggs certainly much fewer than the smaller 

 animals whose continued existence may be largely due to their 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



fecundity. In consequence their danger of extinction through the 

 destruction of their eggs was correspondingly increased. 



In review of what is above said, it may be remarked that in the 

 early days of reptilian dominance, and of general lack of animal 

 activity and intelligence, the reptilian lords of the earth were exposed 

 to little danger of being devoured in the egg by hungry enemies, and 

 needed little care for eggs and young; the result being that no very 

 marked instinct of concealment or personal supervision became de- 

 veloped. But during the later Mesozoic period, an important change 

 took place in the situation. Ages before the reptiles lost their domi- 

 nance a new order of beings, the mammals, had come into existence. 

 The ancestors of the mammalia — typified by the modern Ornithorhyn- 

 chus — were themselves egg-layers. Marsupial mammals followed, 

 and continued throughout most of the Mesozoic age. Insignificant 

 in size, and probably as lacking in intelligence as their reptilian 

 competitors, these creatures long contented themselves with gleaning 

 after the great reptiles, with no evidence of ability to compete with 

 them. Finally appeared the placental mammals, whose young were 

 at birth able to take care of themselves. And, with the coming of 

 this animal type the prevailing stupidity began to yield to a mental 

 condition a step nearer intelligence. 



The reptiles had hitherto occupied the field, the mammals being 

 helpless against them by any direct methods of assault, while the 

 greater activity of the latter, and the consumption of the bulk of the 

 food supply by the great reptiles, checked any disposition in the 

 mammals to increase in size. It is not unlikely that the newcomers 

 gained the victory at length by the indirect methods indicated, an 

 assault upon the eggs, and perhaps the young, of their powerful rivals. 



It is highly probable that the placental mammals, with slowly de- 

 veloping intelligence, adopted, from time to time, new methods of 

 attack; while the reptiles, depending mainly upon previously ac- 

 quired instincts, were very much slower in developing new methods 

 of defence. The reptiles, therefore, eventually found themselves at 

 a serious disadvantage in competition with their small, active', and 

 more cunning opponents. Contemporaneous with the great reptiles 

 were multitudes of prowling creatures, small and agile, whose grow- 

 ing mental powers gradually made them aware that reptilian eggs 

 were full of savory nutriment, and in time taught them the simple 

 arts of concealment of the sea monsters, and how to circumvent the 

 19 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



watchfulness, if any existed, of the small- brained laud giants. The 

 reptilian stream of life, in short, may have been thus assailed with in- 

 creasing pertinacity and intelligence at its source, the eggs devoured, the 

 young perhaps destroyed, and the numbers of these lords of land and 

 sea rapidly reduced. As Achilles had his only vulnerable spot in 

 the heel, these giant reptiles had theirs in the nest. The egg-destroy- 

 ing mammals had a double advantage. Laying no eggs themselves, 

 and caring for their young, they could only be destroyed when in the 

 mature stage, while their assault upon their foes was by the safer and 

 more effective process of devouring them in the egg — a method which 

 may well have caused rapid reduction in numbers and final extinc- 

 tion. The reptilian forms which continued to exist were likely to be 

 the smaller and more prolific ones, and perhaps those which had 

 developed somewhat efficacious methods of caring for their eggs — 

 methods which may have continued to improve as the mental 

 acuteness of their foes increased. 



The ground once cleared by the disappearance of the larger 

 reptiles, the subsequent rapid development of the mammalia is 

 readily comprehensible. They now became the dominant class, and 

 in all ages of geological history each new dominant class has ex- 

 panded rapidly in numbers, in variety of species, and in life of 

 individuals. They were no longer forced to glean after the harvest 

 of powerful competitors, but had the earth's stores of food for their 

 own, and developed accordingly, the remaining reptiles becoming in 

 their turn the gleaners after the harvest. Not only the land, but 

 the ocean, had lost its masters and become an open field for compe- 

 tition. Its reptilian dynasties, impregnable by direct assault, and 

 having no powerful enemies in their liquid domain, had yielded to 

 indirect attack, and mammalian life quickly overflowed into this 

 great reservoir of food in the form of seals, cetacea, and other air 

 breathing swimmers. The axe had been laid to the root of monster 

 reptilian life, and a new race of lords of the earth succeeded. 



To come now to the second instance of extinction alluded to, that 

 of the Post- pliocene, or Recent period, it is one that is, in some of its 

 features, very difficult of explanation. The only general cause that 

 has been adduced for it, that of the intense chill and deep snow-fall 

 ■of the Glacial Age, in all probability had much to do with it, though 

 certainly not all. As regards the mammoth and the woolly rhinoceros 

 of Europe and Asia, there seems much reason to believe that they 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



perished from the cold. This seems probable from their high 

 northern range, and the immense store of their remains now existing 

 in northern Siberia, and in the ice-bound Liakhow or New Siberian 

 Islands. A similiar fate may have overtaken the Irish elk, the 

 urus, the mastodon, and other animals, but such was certainty not 

 the case with the American horse, nor with the giant sloths and the 

 glvptodon of South America, animals which became extinct during 

 the same period. 



The disappearance of the horse, in America, is an unsolved mys- 

 tery. This animal extended in range through a double continent, 

 and has left its remains from Alaska to Patagonia. The horse, it is 

 true, is one of the most highly specialized of animals, and thus be- 

 longs to the class that is most liable to sudden extinction. But its 

 specialization is not one that confines it within narrow or local limits 

 or to a temporary phase of conditions. It is at home on the firm, 

 grassy uplands, and is unsuited to forest, mountain, or moist low- 

 lands. In the eastern hemisphere the natural habitat of the horse 

 is on the steppes of Asia, while other species of the genus inhabit 

 the plains of southern Asia and of Africa. In the western hemi- 

 sphere it was probably most abundant on the open plains of 

 central and western North America, and on the great grassy plains 

 of the southern continent. As regards the habitat of the North 

 American horse, it is one that is exposed to snows, frequently severe 

 ones, in the winter season. The same may have been the case in 

 Asia, if the habit of scraping with the fore- feet, which is possessed by 

 the horse, arose, as has been supposed, from an instinct of scraping 

 away the snows to get at the herbage beneath. Despite this instinct, 

 in abnormal winters, many horses must have perished through the 

 depth and persistance of the snows, as many cattle and sheep do now. 

 During the glacial period this condition existed in an exaggerated 

 degree, and may have caused the extinction of the North American 

 horse. Most of its original range was buried under mountains of 

 ice, which persisted for many centuries. South of the ice limit very 

 frigid conditions must have existed, and deep and persistant snows 

 each winter probably covered all the southern regions of the United 

 States and the plateau of Mexico. 



Under such conditions the horse might well have become extinct. 

 Many contemporaries, such as the bison, the antelope, etc., could 

 have taken refuge in the forest and swampy regions of the semi- 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



tropical lowlands; but these were not suitable habitats for the horse, 

 which could only thrive on the firm and grassy uplands, and which 

 may in consequence have become extinct at this time in North 

 America. 



This explanation, however, fails to account for the disappearance 

 of the South American horse, or of its huge contemporaries, the 

 megatherium, megalonyx,, mylodon and glyptodon. The disap- 

 pearance of the last named animals, in view of their sluggishness and 

 stupidity, is not inexplicable, since it may have been due to a cause 

 similiar to that we have adduced in the case of the cretaceous reptiles— 

 the destruction of their young by more agile and cunning animals. 

 To this it may be objected that in such a case they would probably 

 have disappeared early, and never attained their wide distribution. 

 But this by no means follows. Intelligent animals may rapidly 

 develop new methods of attack. Unintelligent animals are not 

 likely to develop new methods of defence with similar rapidity. If 

 some active carnivorous animal, therefore, began to attack and 

 destroy the young of the giant sloths in a new and covert manner, the 

 parents may have proved quite incapable of guarding against this 

 suddenly developed danger, and the coming generations of these 

 creatures may have been fatally reduced. 



We must, however, in considering the problem of the disappear- 

 ance of the animals in question, take into account a hostile agency 

 which did not exist at any earlier period — that of Man. A new 

 lord of the earth had appeared, and one with powers of destruction 

 never before possessed in the animal world. Within quite recent 

 times several species of animals have become extinct through human 

 aggression. Others may have become extinct in the past. We know 

 that the early savages of Europe killed the horse and other large 

 animals for food, and the early Americans may have done the same. 

 Man may have played an active part in the extinction of the giant 

 sloths and the glyptodon — it they persisted till the human period — 

 by destroying their young, even if he did not attack the mature 

 animals — and have thus cut off these specially dull and slothful 

 species. 



Such an explanation will not account for the extinction of the 

 South American horse, nor does any hypothesis — even of an unsatis- 

 factory character — suggest itself. It is true that some entertain 

 the idea that the South American horse did not become extinct. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



Not many years after the horse had been introduced into South 

 America by the Spaniards, the crew of a vessel, sailing along the 

 coast, saw a number of horses at a point several hundred miles 

 distant from the small settlements to which horses bad been 

 brought from Europe. It is considered questionable that horses 

 which may have escaped from these settlements could have increased 

 in a few years sufficiently to extend several hundred miles away. 

 That the horses thus seen were native animals is possible, though 

 very doubtful, since it seems probable that the native American 

 horse, though of the same species with the European, may have 

 presented some varietal differences in appearance. All that we 

 can say is that this incident leaves the question of the extinction 

 of the South American horse open to some, though a very slight, 

 degree of doubt. If, as is probable, it became extinct, the cause of 

 its extinction must remain an unsolved mystery. In short, the 

 whole subject of animal extinction is one that is rife with difficulties. 

 The best that can be done is to offer some suggestion of causes that 

 may have aided in the disappearance of species: It is quite probable, 

 however, that many influences were at work of which we are ignor- 

 ant, and most of which will always remain beyond the scope of 

 human investigation or conjecture. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



SYNOPSIS OF THE STIZINI OF BOREAL AMERICA. 

 BY WILLIAM J. FOX. 



In working over the fossorial wasps belonging to the genera in- 

 cluded in Handlirsch's monograph 1 it seemed to me that, inasmuch 

 as the latter's work is probably inaccessible to most American 

 entomologists, the publication of synoptical tables of those genera 

 elsewhere, together with such notes as may be available, and the 

 description of new species should there be any, would be of service 

 to those interested in the subject. It is my hope to work gradu- 

 ally over the genera monographed by the above author, and to 

 prepare from time to time synoptical tables for publication. 

 Therefore, this paper may be considered the first of a series, which 

 I trust will be concluded in the near future. 



The two genera composing the Stizini maybe separated as follows: 



Marginal cell about twice as long as the first submarginal ; spurs of 

 hind tibise enlarged in £ au d the pygidium well developed ; 

 abdomen ( $ ) with a single spine at apex. Sphecius. 



Marginal cell much shorter than the first submarginal ; spurs of 



hind tibipe short in both sexes, not enlarged ; no well-developed 



pygidium, at theimost with a short ridge on each side of the 



last dorsal abdominal segment ; abdomen {$ ) with three spines 



at apex. Stizus. 



SPHECIUS Dhlb. 



Sphex Drurv (in pt.) Ins. II, PI. 38, fig. 1. p. 71, 1773. 

 Stizus Latreille, Tab. Encycl. et Method, pi. 382, fig. 6, 1809. 

 Sphecius Dahlbohin, Hym. Eur., p. 154, 1845. 

 Hogardia Lepeletier de St. Fargeau. Hym. Ill, p. 288, 1845. 



Stizus, various authors. For full synonymy see Handlirsch, Sitzb. Akad. 

 Wissensch. Wien. XCVIII, Bd., Abth. 1, p. 441. 



FEMALES. 



Abdomen with segments 1-3 only of abdomen spotted with yellow. 



Black, legs rufous ; punctuation of second dorsal abdominal seg- 

 ment rather close speciosus. 



Entirely rufous, excepting of course the abdominal and face mark- 

 ings; punctuation of second dorsal abdominal segment very 

 sparse convallis. 



1 Sitzungsberichte der K. Akademie der Wissensehaften. Mathematisch- 

 naturwissenschaftliche (lasse. XXXV — LI. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Abdomen with segments 1-6 spotted with yellow. Color varying 



from black to rufous, with intermediate forms grandis. 



Abdomen rod and black, not spotted Hbgardii. 



MALES. 



Joints of flagellum not strongly rounded out beneath. 



Black, legs rufous speciosus. 



Rufous in greater part. 



Abdomen rufous, the iirst three segments maculated with yel- 

 low convallis. 



Abdomen rufous and black Hbgardii. 



Joints of flagellum strongly rounded out beneath; abdominal markings 

 not confined to the iirst three segments, all the dorsal segments 



being maculated. Color varying from black to rufous 



grandis. 



1. Sphecius speciosus Dr. 



Sphex speciosus Drury, 1. c. 



Vespa tricincta Fabricius, Syst. Ent., p. 363. 



Stizus vespiformis Latreille. I.e. 



Stizus speciosus Lepeletier do St. Fargeau et Serville, Encycl. Method. 



pi. 382, fig. 6. 

 Hogdrdia speciosa Lepeletier <le St. Fargeau, 1. c. 

 Sphecius speciosus Dahlbohm, 1. c. 

 Stizus speciosus Packard, Proc. Ent. Soc., Phila., VI, p. 442. 



Common in the Eastern United States ; Texas: Mexico (Hand- 

 lirsch). 



2. Sphecius convallis Patt. 



Stizus grandis Packard (non Say) 1. c, p. 44-.'. 



Sphecius speciosus var. convallis Pattern, Bull. I T . S. Geol. Survey, 



p. 343, 1879, $ 2 . 

 Sphecius rap/or Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 461. $ 9 . 

 Sphecius convallis Fox. Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., [2] IV, p. 103. 



Kansas ; Texas ; California ; Lower California. The second ab- 

 dominal segment in $ is not sparsely punctured like the 9 , but is 

 about the same as in the $ of speciosus. 



3. Sphecius Hogardii Latr. 



S/i~us Hbgardii Latreille, Genera Crust et Ins., IV, p. 100, Plate XIII. 



f.12, 9. 

 Hogardia rufescens Lepeletier de St. Fargeau, Hym. Ill, p. 289. 

 Stizus Hogardii Smith, Cat. Hym. Brit. Mus., IV, p. 336, Plate. VIII. f. 4. 



This is a West Indian species, but has been recorded from Key 

 West and the Bahamas, and must therefore be added to our lists. 



4. Sphecius grandis Say. 



Stizus grandis Say, West. Quart. Pep. II. p. 77. 



Stizus fervidus Cresson, Tr. Amer. Ent. Soc. IV, p. 223, 2 



Stizus nevadensis Cresson. ibid, V, p. 99. $ 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Tennessee (Handlirsch) ; Arkansas (Say); Missouri (Riley); 

 Texas; New Mexico (Cockerell); Utah; Nevada; Washington. 

 Handlirsch considers grandis and fervidus as distinct species, hut the 

 distinguishing characters given by him, (the coloration and sculpture 

 of thorax ahove) are shown to he variable by a series of twenty-three 

 examples before me, and the color of the wings is not constant. 



STIZUS Latr. 



Stizus Latreille, Histoire naturelle, III, 344, 1802. 

 Bicyrtes Lepeletier de St. Fargeau, Hym., Ill, p. 53, 1845. 

 Bembecinus Costa, Fauna del Regno di Napoli, 4, 1859. 

 Larra Smith (non Fabr.) Cat. Hym. B. M., IV, p. 337. 

 Megastizus Patton, Bull. IT. S. Geol. Survey, V, p. 334, 1879. 



FEMALES. 



Middle segment emargiuate posteriorly at the sides; females . 2 



Middle segment not emargiuate, the postero-lateral angles 



rounded 4 



2 — Second submarginal cell distinctly petiolate 3 



Second submarginal cell not petiolate, but the first and second 

 transverso-cubital nervures touch at the marginal cell; space 

 between hind ocelli slightly greater than that between them 

 and nearest eye margin; antennae placed at a distinctly greater 

 distance from the clypeus than from the eyes; black, with yel- 

 low maculatious, the greater part of coxa?, trochanters, tibise 

 and the tarsi entirely, yellow; legs robust neglect us. 



3 — Antenme placed at about the same distance from clypeus as from 

 the eyes; space between hind ocelli just about equal to that be- 

 tween them and nearest eye margin ; not densely hirsute; tibia? 

 only in part yellow; hind tarsi entirely black . . . Godmani. 

 Antenna? placed somewhat farther away from the clypeus than 

 from eye margin; space between hind ocelli greater than that 

 between them and nearest eye margin; rather densely hirsute; 

 tibise and tarsi entirely yellow nanus. 



4 — First and second transverso-cubital nervures widely separated 



above. Size very large 5 



First and second transverso-cubital nervures narrowly separated 

 or meeting at the marginal cell; deep black, the second dorsal 

 abdominal segment with a broad, reddish fascia, sometimes in- 

 terrupted medially, but rarely absent; wings blue-black, the 

 apical margin of anteriors whitish unicinctus. 



5 — Yellowish spots on dorsal abdominal segments 3 and 4 extended 

 so that they nearly meet internally; clypeus hardly as broad as 

 the combined length of the first three antennal joints united, 

 its anterior margin rather strongly incurved; lateral ridges of 

 pygidial area fully twice as long as the latter is broad at apex. 

 brevipennis. 




189;").] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Yellowish spots on dorsal abdominal segments 3 and 4 distinctly 

 separated internally; clypeus about as broad as the three first 

 joints of antennae united are long, its anterior margin not 

 strongly incurved, subtruncate; lateral ridges of pygidial area 

 short, not twice as long as the latter is broad at apex . texanus. 



MALES. 



1 — Middle segment emarginate posteriorly at the sides; twelfth an- 

 tenual joint spinose beneath 2 



Middle segment not emarginate, the postero-lateral angles 

 rounded; twelfth antenual joint not spinose -5 



2 — Black, with paler markings . 3 



Yellow, with black markings 4 



3 — Seventh ventral segment slightly carinated down the middle; 

 space between eyes at base of clypeus distinctly less than the 

 combined length of joints 1 and 2 of flagellum; spine at apex 

 of eleventh antenual joint straight, rather short and indistinct; 



tibia? in part black Godmani. 



Seventh ventral segment flat, not carinated; space between the 

 eyes at base of clypeus about equal, or nearly so, to the com- 

 bined length of joints 1 and 2 of the flagellum; spine at apex 

 of eleventh antenual joint curved, long and prominent; tibiae 

 entirely yellow nanus. 



4 — Second submargiual cell distinctly petiolate flavus. 



Second submargiual cell not petiolate xanthochrous. 



5 — First and second transverso-cubital uervures widely separated 



above. Size large 6 



First and second transverso-cubital uervures narrowly separated 

 above or melting. Size medium; entirely deep black, the 

 second dorsal abdominal segment with a reddish fascia; wings 

 blue-black, the apical margin whitish unicinctus. 



6 — Yellowish spots on dorsal abdominal segments 3 and 4 extended, 

 so that they nearly meet internally; last dorsal segment 



rounded at apex brevipennis. 



Yellowish spots on dorsal abdominal' segments 3 and 4 widely 

 separated internally; last dorsal segment with a small, but dis- 

 tinct emargination at apex texanus. 



1. Stizus Godmani Cameron. 



Stizus Godmani Cam., Biol. Centr. Amer., Hym., PI. V, fig. 8, a. b. c, 9 $ ■ 

 Stiz?<s agilis Cam. (non S. agilis Sm.), ibid., p. 102. 



Mexico (Cameron) ; Lower California ; Santa Fe and Las Cruces, 



New Mexico (Cockerell); Colorado. 



2. Stizus nanus Hdl. 



Stizus nanus Handlirsch,Sitzb. Akad. Wissensch., Wien., LI, Bd., Abtli., I, p. 

 61, $ O. 



Georgia. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



3. Stizus flavus Cam. 



Stizus flavus Cameron, I.e., p. 103, PI. V, fig. 9, a. b. c, $ . 



Mexico (Carnerou); Lower California ; New Mexico (Cockerell ): 

 Colorado (Gillette). 



4. Stizus servilli St. F;irg. 



Bicyrtes Servilli St. Fargeau. Hym., Ill, p. 53, 1845. 

 Stizus Servillii Handlirsch, I.e., p. 65. 



Philadelphia (St. Fargeau). Unknown to me. 



5. Stizus xantliochrous Hdl. 



Stizus xanthochrous Handlirsch, I.e., p. 69, PI. I, tigs. 19, 10. 

 Texas: Cypress Mills (Coll. Ashmead). Resembles flavus, but 

 the second submarginal cell is not petiolate. 



6. Stizus moueduloides Sm. 



Larra moueduloides Smith, Cat. Hyni. B. M., IV, p. 436, $ 9 • 

 Bembecinus moueduloides Cresson, Synopsis, p. 278. 

 Stizus moueduloides Handlirsch, I.e., p. 69. 



Florida (Smith); Mexico (Cameron). Unknown to me. Hand- 

 lirsch regards his nanus as possibly identical with this species, but 

 Smith's description is not sufficiently clear to decide it, as he does not 

 say whether the second submarginal cell is petiolate, or not ; accord- 

 ing to Cameron who reports the species from Mexico, this cell is not 

 petiolate, which fact would indicate that nanus is distinct from it. 



7. Stizus neglectus Cress. 



Monedula neglecta Cresson, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 222, $ . 

 Stizus neglectus Handlirsch, I.e., p. 70. 



Comal Co., Texas. 



8. Stizus unicinctus Say. 



Stizus unicinctus Say, West. Quart. Rep., II, p. 77. 



Larra unicincta Cresson, Proc, Ent. Soc, Phila., IV, p. 47:2. 



Stizus unicinctus Cresson, Synopsis, p. 27s. 



Occurs throughout the Western States. 



9. Stizus brevipenuis Walsh. 



Stizus brevipenuis Walsh, Amer. Entoni., I, p. 16:2, g . 



Larra Brendeli Taschenberg, Zeitsch., f. d. g, Naturw., p. 361, 1875. 



Megastizus brevipennis Patton, Bull. I". S. Geol. Survey, V, p. 345, J 1 J . 



Texas and Illinois. 



10. Stizus texanus Cress. 



Stizus texanus Cresson, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc., IV, p. 222, $ £. 

 Megastizus brevipennis Cresson (in pt. ), Synopsis, p. 278. 



Stizus texanus Handlirsch. I.e.. p. 176, PI. 1. figs. 6, 14, 15; PI. II, tig. 29; PI. 

 Ill, fig. 10. 



1 uxas. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



PROTOPTYCHUS HATCHERI, A NEW RODENT FROM THE UINTA EOCENE. 



BY W. B. SCOTT. 



[Investigation aided by a grant from the Elizabeth Thompson Fund of the 

 A. A. A.S.] 



Mr. J. B. Hatcher, Curator of vertebrate palaeontology in the 

 Princeton Museum, who is at present (April, 1895) collecting in 

 the Uinta beds, (upper Eocene) of Utah, has lately discovered a 

 small rodent-skull of a previously unknown type, and recognizing its 

 importance, has sent it in to me for examination and description. 

 The skull proves to be of unusual interest and brings to light some 

 very unexpected facts, which I hasten to bring to the attention 

 of students of the rodents. 



The Dentition. — Only the teeth of the upper jaw (fig. 3) are repre- 

 sented in the specimen, the mandible having been lost. The dental 

 formula is: II CO PI M3. As the front end of the rostrum is broken 

 away, only a transverse section of the incisors is visible in the specimen 

 and here they are seen to be rather small and laterally compressed; 

 there is nothing to indicate that these teeth were sulcate. The pre- 

 molar, p4, is of only moderate size, not quite so large as ml. Owing 

 to its somewhat abraded condition, the pattern of this tooth is rather 

 difficult to make out and all that can be clearly seen is a narrow 

 invagination of enamel from the external side, which extends across 

 about half the transverse width of the crown, and on the inner side 

 is an extremely shallow enamel indentation. The first molar a little 

 exceeds in size any of the other cheek-teeth, though there is not 

 much difference between any of the series in this respect. In its 

 present condition of wear, this tooth displays a deep invagination of 

 enamel from the outer side of the crown, and a very shallow one from 

 the inner side, which, however, is distinctly better marked than in 

 the premolar. The second molar is slightly smaller than the first, 

 but of similiar conformation. The third molar, perhaps in conse- 

 quence of the fact that it is less worn than the others, is of a some- 

 what different pattern. In addition to the enamel invagination from 

 the inner and outer sides, it has two low transverse crests, with a 




270 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



shallow depression in front of the anterior one and behind the pos- 

 terior one. These teeth are all very brachyodont, with transversely 

 oval crowns, and form a slightly curved series with the convexity 

 outward, so that those of the two sides converge at both ends and are 

 most widely separated in the middle. 



It is difficult to find among modern rodents any type of dentition 

 which altogether corresponds to the one here described. The trans- 

 verse crests visible on mo of Protoptychus (and doubtless in the unworn 

 state of the other teeth, also) have a certain resemblance to the teeth of 

 the squirrels and spermophiles, but the fundamental character of the 

 tooth- pattern is given by the enamel invaginations, which tend to 

 divide it into two prisms. This arrangement is most like that found 

 in Pedetes, the Heteromyidce and Geomi/idtr. The resemblance of 

 the Uinta form to the John Day genera, Entoptyehus and Pleuroli- 



Fig. 1. Protoptychus Hateheri; 

 Skull from left side: natural 

 size. 



Fig. 2. Protoptychus Hateheri; 

 Skull from above ; natural size. 



cits, especially to the latter which is brachyodont, is decidedly 

 marked. 



The Skull. — It will be3t serve the purposes of this description to 

 consider first the skull as a whole, and then the individual elements 

 which make it up. Its general aspect suggests various affinities : on 

 the one hand, it has very marked resemblances to the skull of Dipus, 

 especially in the anterior portion, while the posterior portion strongly 

 recalls the corresponding region in Perognatlms, Crieetodipvs, and even 

 Dipodomys. The skull is quite depressed and elongate and broadens 

 less abruptly toward the hinder end than in those existing genera of 

 Dipodidce and Heteromyidce in which the mastoids are largely in- 

 flated. Seen from above, the outline of the skull has considerable 

 resemblance to that of Heteromys, though with much more prominent 

 mastoid bulhe than in the latter. In front of the orbits the face is 

 deeply constricted to form the rostrum, which, so far as it is pre- 

 served, is not unlike that of Heteromys in shape, but the proportions 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



of the different bones which compose it resemble more the arrange- 

 ment which obtains in LHpus. The rostrum is also less tapering 

 and acuminate than in the recent Heteromyidce. The transverse 

 width of the skull is greatest in the mastoid region, though these 

 bones project but slightly beyond the line of the zygomatic arches 

 and thus the width is nearly uniform from the front of the orbits to 

 the occiput. In all of the existing Dipodidce the skull is widest across 

 the zygomatic arches. In Protoptychus the skull is long and narrow- 

 as compared with that of Dipus, though not far removed from the 

 proportions of Zap us. The interorbital constriction is very slight, 

 much as in Heteromys, and thus decidedly less than in Zapus. 

 Aside from the inflated mastoids, the broadest part of the cranium 

 is across the parietals and behind the orbits. The hinder part of the 

 cranium displays very large, rounded and swollen mastoids, such as 

 occur in the recent Dipodidce and Heteromyidce, though their shape 

 and construction are more like what we find in the latter family than 

 in the former. The mastoids encroach more upon the roof of the 

 skull and the occipital plane than in Perognathus or Cricetodipus, 

 and quite as much as in Dipus, though in a somewhat different way 

 and with a different effect upon the surrounding cranial bones from 

 the latter. 



In spite of the great size which the mastoids have already 

 attained, small, but distinct temporal fossae are preserved, such as 

 persist in Heteromys, but in no other member of that family. More of 

 the squamosal is retained on the walls of the cranium in the existing 

 Dipodidce than in Protoptychus, but not such distinctly marked 

 temporal fossie. The consistency of the bones of the skull, their 

 ridges and angles are much as in Dipus and have not that exces- 

 sively thin and papery appearance which characterizes Zapus and the 

 recent Heteromyidce. There is no indication of a sagittal crest. 

 Viewed in profile, the highest point of the skull is behind the orbits, 

 at the slightly swollen and gently convex parietals, as is also true of 

 Zapus and Perognathus] from this point the upper contour descends 

 gradually in front to the rostrum and behind to the occiput, though 

 the curvature of this surface is but slight. The inferior sur- 

 face of the cranium is rendered different in appearance from that of 

 any of the Heteromyidce by the larger size and more spherical form 

 of the tympanic bullae, which have much the same shape as in 

 Dipus, but the bullae are not separated from the neighboring cranial 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



bones by such fissures as occur in the latter and in Pedetes, as well as 

 in Dipodoniys, conforming more in this respect to the condition of 

 Zapus. The large incisive foramina constitute another point of 

 resemblance to Dipus. 



Taking up the structure of the skull more in detail, we find that 

 the rostrum is narrow, decidelv more so than the interorbital space, 

 and quite deep vertically, its diameter in this dimension exceeding 

 the transverse. The nasals are considerably broader than in Heter- 

 omys or Perognatlius and have more the relative width found in 

 Dipus, but they extend much farther back than in any living genus 

 of either family, reaching along their external borders to the mid- 

 dle of the orbits, slightly behind the termination of the ascending 

 processes of the premaxillaries. In the Dipodidce the nasals cease 

 in front of the orbits and they extend but little more backward in the 

 Heteromyidce. The hinder ends of the nasals are deeply emarginated 

 to receive the long nasal processes of the frontals, which are far 

 more conspicuous than in either of the modern families named. 

 Posteriorly the nasals are slightly concave transversely; farther for- 

 ward they become strongly convex in the same direction and together 

 form a semicylinder. This anterior convexity is more pronounced 

 than in Dipus and it may indicate a tubular prolongation of the 

 rostrum in front of the incisors, such as occurs in the Heteromyidw. 

 The nasals are accompanied for nearly their entire length by ascend- 

 ing processes of the premaxillaries, which articulate suturally with 

 the frontals. On the top of the skull these processes are, as in the 

 Dipodidce, very narrow strips, much narrower than in the Hetero- 

 myidce. Their extension backward is more prolonged than in either 

 family, as they reach almost to the middle of the orbits. 



The frontals are short, shorter than in Zapus or Heteromys, except 

 in the median line, where the nasal processes add materially to their 

 length ; they have, however, attained no such degree of shortening 

 as is found in Dijmx. The interorbital space has about the same 

 relative width as is found in Heteromys, but the supraorbital 

 margin has not the bead- like thickening which occurs in that 

 genus. Postorbital processes are entirely wanting. The parie- 

 tals are not altogether like those of any of the modern genera which 

 have been mentioned; they are longer than in Perognatlius and have 

 not the nearly regular pentagonal shape characteristic of that genus; 

 they are somewhat shorter than in Heteromys and have, as also in the 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



latter, a distinct ridge or angulation running along their external 

 margins, which form small temporal fossa 1 , more distinctly marked 

 than iu any other member of the family. In Dipus and Pedetes the 

 parietals are very short and wide, while in Zapus they retain much 

 the same proportions as occur in Protoptychus, though they have not 

 the external angulation, nor the concave temporal fossa? found in 

 the latter. In the fossil the parietals are slightly swollen and 

 gently convex in both directions, with a shallow depression in the 

 median line. 



The interparietal is very large and of a somewhat different shape 

 from that of any 'of the recent genera of the two families. In the 

 Heteromyinoe this bone is very wide and of varying shapes in the 

 different genera. Thus, it is elliptical in Perognathus, pentagonal in 

 Cricetodipus, and in Heteromys broadly cordate. In the Dipodo- 

 myinae this bone has become very small and is longer than wide, a 

 condition due to the great encroachments made upon the cranial 

 walls by the enormously inflated mastoids. Dipus has a broad 



Fig. 3. Protoptychus Hatcheri; Skull Fig. 4. Protoptychus Hatcheri; 



from below; natural size. Skull, occipital surface; natural 



size. 



shield-shaped interparietal, Pedetes one which is very short and wide 

 and of peculiar shape, while in Zapus it is a wide ellipse. The inter- 

 parietal of Protoptychus differs from that of all the genera named, 

 being very large and of nearly square outline, though the breadth 

 slightly exceeds the length; the latter diameter is, however, much 

 greater relatively than in any of the recent genera, while the narrow- 

 ing is obviously due to the expansion of the mastoids. The external 

 ridges of the parietals are continued over upon the borders of the 

 interparietal, which otherwise is nearly plane, but is thus made 

 slightly concave. 



The occipital surface is almost flat, except for the protuberances 

 formed by the mastoids, and is considerably higher than wide, the 

 inflated mastoid bulla? having greatly narrowed it, In general 




274 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



appearance the occiput is quite like that of Pleurolicus diplophysus of 

 the John Day; (see Cope, Tertiary Vertehrata, PI. LXIV, 

 fig. 9 C ), but in the latter the mastoids are not so much enlarged and 

 the occiput is, consequently, wider than high. The su preoccipital 

 of Protoptych us most resembles that of the Heteromyidce ; it appears on 

 the top of the skull only as a very narrow strip and, so far as can be 

 judged from the specimen, it does not send out spurs which embrace 

 the interparietal between them, such as are found in Perognathus and 

 ( 'ricetodipus. On the plane of the occiput the su preoccipital occu- 

 pies a little more space, but even here it is very narrow from above 

 downward, nearly the whole of this surface being formed by the large 

 exoccipitals. In Dipus the spurs which enclose the interparietal are 

 very peculiarly shaped, for they are produced downward over the 

 mastoid bullae and articulate with narrow processes given off from the 

 squamosals. In Pedetes there are no such spurs from the supraocci- 

 pital and so far there is a resemblance to the fossil, but the dis- 

 tinct angle made by the occipital plane with the top of the skull 

 in the latter is heteromyine rather than dipodine in character. 

 In the Uinta genus the foramen magnum is very large in proportion 

 and of subcircular shape, while the occipital condyles are exceed- 

 ingly small, widely separated from each other and so closely 

 applied to the great bulla?, that it is difficult to see how they 

 could conveniently articulate with the cotyles of the atlas. No 

 distinct paroccipital processes are observable. Such processes 

 are distinct in Dipus and still more so in Pedetes, but in Zapus, as 

 in the Heteromyidir, they are exceedingly minute. The basioccipital 

 and basisphenoid are reduced to excessively narrow, slender rods, 

 which are more attenuated than in any of the Heteromyidce, not even 

 excepting Dipodomys. In Dipus these two bones form together a 

 wedge-shaped piece, which narrows rapidly forward; the basisphenoid 

 is thus as slender as in Protoptyehus, but the basioccipital is broader. 

 Much the same statement will apply to Perognathus. This difference 

 is due to the fact that in the fossil the largely inflated tympanic 

 bulke are of a different shape, and in particular, have a greater 

 transverse diameter proportionately than have any of the modern 

 forms mentioned. 



The mastoids are very greatly inflated and form large portions of 

 the auditory bullae, which ai - e the most conspicuous and striking 

 features of the skull. The shape of these structures has resemblance 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



both to the Heteromyidas and the Dipodidce. The relative size of 

 the mastoids is about the same as in Dipus and Pedetes, but they have 

 a less extension vertically and a greater one antero-posteriorly than 

 in those genera. In Zapus the mastoids are but moderately inflated, 

 and in Heteromys they are in much the same condition, so as not to 

 form conspicuous parts of the cranial walls. In Perognathus these 

 bones are much more swollen and conspicuous, but they form com- 

 paratively little of the top of the cranium, do not bulge out strongly 

 from the sides of the skull and project but slightly behind the plane of 

 the occiput. In this genus the mastoid articulates extensively with 

 the parietal and helps to give it its' characteristic pentagonal shape. 

 In Oricetodipus the mastoids are still more swollen and project so 

 decidedly backward that the proper occipital surface appears like an 

 emargination. In the Difiodomyince the mastoids are inflated to a 

 most extraordinary degree, reducing all the other cranial bones of 

 that region to mere strips. In Protoptych us these bones are dilated 

 much more than in either Perognathus or Oricetodipus, though not 

 approximating the enormous size which they attain in Dipodomi/s, 

 and form very conspicuous prominences, which project both 

 laterally and posteriorly. They do not, however, articulate with the 

 parietals, from which they appear to be separated by the narrow 

 prolongations of the squamosals which form the temporal foss:e. The 

 parieto- mastoid articulation occurs in the modern forms of both the 

 Dipodidce and the Heteromyidce, even in those genera in which the 

 mastoid is only moderately inflated. The construction of the mas- 

 toid bulhe in the fossil has most resemblance to that of the lletero- 

 myidce. In Dipus and Pedetes this structure, is high vertically, not 

 much elongated antero-posteriorly and not so divided into chambers 

 that the division is clearly visible from the outer side. In the fossil, 

 as in Oricetodipus, the mastoid bulla is laterally compressed and 

 more extended antero-posteriorly than laterally; it is divided by 

 partial septa into chambers, two of which are plainly shown, even 

 externally, being bounded by deep grooves. Of these two chambers, 

 the hinder one is short, high and narrow and lies behind the audi- 

 tory meatus, while the anterior one is longer, lower and broader and 

 lies above the auditory meatus, the two divisions meeting at nearly a 

 right angle. In Dipodomys the arrangement is similiar, but the 

 anterior chamber is much more strongly inflated and, in particular, 

 is very much wider. 

 20 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The tympanic portion of the auditory bulla is more swollen and 

 of a different shape from that of any of the recent Heteromyidoe and 

 more resembles that of Dlpus. It is relatively very large and of 

 hemispherical form, with nearly equal transverse, an tero- posterior 

 and vertical diameters, and differs markedly from the elongate, 

 somewhat depressed and flask- like form characteristic of the pocket- 

 mice. The front ends of the two bulla? are quite near together, but 

 they have not the narrow prolongations, corresponding to the neck of 

 the flask, which are found not only in the pocket-mice, but also in 

 the lower Miocene genus Entoptychus, which I regard as one of the 

 forerunners of the Qeomyidce. The tympanies are in close apposi- 

 tion to the hasi-occipital and hasi-sphenoid, as in Zapus and Pero- 

 gnathus, not isolated by the fissures which occur in Dip us and Dij»>- 

 ilomi/s. The opening of the auditory n/eatus is nearly circular and 

 forms even less of a tube than in Zapus or Perognathus. 



The crowding and displacement of the cranial bones which result 

 from the great development of the mastoid bullae has already in 

 Protoptychus attained a remarkable degree, more advanced than in 

 several of the existing genera. Compared with the skull of Dipus, 

 in the fossil we find that the elements which lie in front of the mas- 

 toid are more reduced. This is due to the much greater relative size 

 of the brain in the modern genus, which has broadened the f'rontals and 

 parietals in a very striking way, and probably even the greater 

 width of the basi-occipital is due to the same factor. The Hetero- 

 myidce exhibit many differences among themselves in this respect, the 

 displacement being extreme in the Dipodomyince and very moderate 

 in the Heteromyince. Having reference to this feature only, Pro- 

 toptychus stands midway between the two sections of the family. 



The squamosal is pushed almost entirely into the orbit, but, as has 

 already been mentioned, it appears to send out a process between the 

 parietal and the mastoid, which articulates with the interparietal. The 

 sutures in this region are, however, so far obliterated as to render 

 this somewhat uncertain, but, at all events, there is at this point a 

 narrow, perfectly distinct and slightly concave temporal fossa, such 

 as exists in Heteromys and in no other member of either of the 

 modern families. In both the Dipodidce and the Heteromyidte a long 

 spur of the squamosal extends back over the auditory meatus, along 

 the line of suture between the mastoid and the tympanic. In the 

 fossil this spur is not shown, but as this region has suffered slightly 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



from weathering, it may have been present originally. If so, it must 

 have been exceedingly tine and thread-like, as it is in Dipodomys. 

 There is no postorbital ridge or plate, such as is found in Dipus, 

 though not in Zapus. The zygomatic process is longer and in every 

 way better developed than in the Heteromyidce, hut it does not pro- 

 ject out so far from the sides of the skull as in Dipus or Pedetes, but 

 has about the same degree of proportionate development as in 

 Zapus. It is separated by a considerable interval from the tym- 

 panic. 



The jugal has been largely weathered away from the specimen, 

 but the anterior portion remains, as well as the imprint of the entire 

 hone on the matrix tilling the orbit of the left side, which allows its 

 shape and connections to be determined with a fair degree of ac- 

 curacy. The horizontal portion is longer than in the recent genera 

 of Dipodidce or Heteromyidce, and though very thin and compressed, 

 forming a vertical plate, it is stouter than in any of the modern forms, 

 except Pedetes. The ascending portion is decidedly broader and is 

 continued up along the anterior edge of the orbit and forms a suture 

 with the lachrymal, as in the recent jumping-m ice. The form of this 

 process is most like that of Zapus, among the existing genera; it is 

 a wide plate, with recurved external border, convex externally and 

 concave internally, somewhat as in Zapus, though owing to the 

 smaller size of the infraorbital foramen, it is less attenuated. In 

 Dipus the edge of the plate is not recurved, hut projects directly out- 

 ward and helps to give the extraordinary breadth which the face has 

 at this point — the widest part of the skull. The anterior portion of 

 the zygomatic arch is at a lower level than in the recent jumping- 

 mice and here the arch is less horizontal; nor has it the decided 

 downward curvature found in Dipus; in front the arch is not so 

 widely separated from the alveolar portion of the maxillary as in the 

 recent genera. The zygomatic process of the maxillary is much like 

 that of Zapus. The infraorbital foramen is a large aperture per- 

 forating the zygomatic process; in shape it is high, narrow and some- 

 what pyriform, resembling that of the typical Muridce, except that 

 its position is reversed, being narrower above than below. There is 

 no separate canal, or even notch, for the nerve, such as is found in 

 the recent jumping-mice. The zygomatic process arises a little in 

 advance of the premolar, as it does also in Zapus; in Dipus it is 

 shifted somewhat farther forward, while in Pedetes it extends so far 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



anteriorly that the ascending process of the jugal appears to rise out 

 of the middle of the zygomatic arch. The zygomatic process of the 

 maxillary is thus merely a slender frame-work enclosing the infra- 

 orbital foramen and strengthened on the outer side by the ascending 

 process of the jugal. This is quite different from the perforated 

 plate of the true mice and still more from the imperforate plate of 

 the Heteromyidce and Geomyidce. The lachrymal is a very small 

 bone, which is placed at the antero- superior angle of the orbit and 

 articulates with the frontal and the jugal. 



The premaxillaries are large and quite heavy bones, very narrow, 

 but of considerable vertical extent; their palatal surface is reduced 

 to two narrow rods, one on each side of the very large incisive 

 foramina. The maxillo-premaxillary suture is just in advance of the 

 zygomatic process, as is also the case in Dipus and Zapus, and thus 

 the sides of the rostrum are formed almost entirely by the premaxil- 

 lse. The incisive foramina are very large, though the apparent size 

 is increased by the loss of the premaxillary spines; they deeply 

 emarginate the palatal processes of the maxillaries and extend back 

 as far as ml. The John Day genus Paciculus and several of the 

 recent Dipodidce, such as Zapus, Dipus, Alactaga, etc., have a similar 

 conformation of the incisive foramina, but in the latter they do not 

 cut so deeply into the maxillaries. This appears to be due to the 

 growth of the part of the maxillaries in front of the premolar which 

 accompanies the forward shifting of the zygomatic process, in Pedetes, 

 in which this shifting has attained its maximum, the foramina have 

 become quite small. 



The maxillaries form singularly little of the facial region. The 

 alveolar portion is low, but quite dense and heavy and forms 

 posteriorly a broad, shelf-like floor of the orbit, which is much larger 

 and heavier than in the recent genera, The bony palate is short 

 from before backward, quite broad and gently arched from side to 

 side. The limits of the palatine bones cannot be made out in the 

 specimen. The posterior nares have much the same shape and 

 position as in Zapus, being broad and extending forward to the 

 middle of mo. The pterygoids abut against the tympanies and 

 there are quite large pterygoid fossa 1 . 



The cranial foramina are not satisfactorily displayed in the speci- 

 men. A large sphenoid tissure is visible in the orbit, but the 

 alisphenoid canal, if originally present, has been destroyed. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



The new genus and species may he defined as follows: 



PKOTOPTYCHUS. 

 Gen. nov. p : , in L, cheek-teeth brachyodont, in the worn 

 condition with deep enamel invagination from outer side and 

 shallow depression on inner side of crown. Infraorbital foramen 

 large, pyriform, perforating zygomatic process of maxillary. Jngal 

 articulating with lachrymal (?). Mastoids much inflated, in degree 

 intermediate between those of Cricetodipus and Dipodomys; tym- 

 panies much inflated and hemispherical. Interparietal nearly square. 

 Incisive foramina very large. 



P. Hatcheri n. sp. 



Length of skull about as in Perodipus Ordi. Internal enamel 

 invagination of p i much less marked than in m grinding teeth 

 of nearly equal size, m _L slightly larger than the others. Nasals 

 wide. Occiput higher than wide. 



This species is dedicated to its discoverer, Mr. J. B. Hatcher, 

 whose long and arduous labors in behalf of palaeontology have 

 been crowned with such brilliant success. 



Length of skull from inion 

 to zyg. proc. of max. 



Breadth of skull at mas- 

 toids 



Breadth of skull across 

 zygomatic arches 



Breadth of skull at inter- 

 orbital space 



Width of rostrum at base .007 



The Affinities of Protoptychus. 



It has been remarked that fossils do not aid materially in clearing 

 away morphological difficulties, because they raise as many problems 

 as they solve. Such a stricture, while not justified in the case of a 

 nearly complete phylogenetic series, is only too applicable to isolated 

 genera, such as Eloiheriwn, or in the case of a few scattered and 

 widely separated links in a phyletic chain. To the latter class, un- 

 fortunately Protoptychus belongs and there is much about it that is 

 extremely puzzling. It is, in the first place, altogether unexpected 

 to find that the curious and highly specialized family of the Dipodidoe 

 should extend back with so little change to the upper Eocene. This 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



is, however, only another instance of the continuity of the American 

 rodent fauna, which, scanty as it is, pursues a much more unbroken 

 course than that of Europe. Still more surprising is it to find that 

 one of the peculiarities which especially mark this family, namely, 

 the inflation of the temporal region and the concomitant reduction of 

 the adjoining cranial bones, have already attained such an advanced 

 degree. Finally, to add to the confusion, we observe that with 

 features characteristic of the Dipodidce are combined certain struc- 

 tures resembling those of the Heteromyidce, such as the dentition and 

 the shape and divisions of the mastoid bullae, while the infraorbital 

 foramen is like that of the Muridce. 



That Protoptychus is an ancestral form of the Dipodidce seems 

 abundantly clear. The long, narrow and incapacious cranium, 

 though in strong contrast with that of Dipus, is not very unlike the 

 cranium of Zapus, and these differences are just what the analogy 

 of other mammalian groups would lead us to expect. The character 

 of the infraorbital foramen offers no difficulty to this view, for its 

 gi-eat size in the modern jumping- mice cannot be a primitive feature 

 and the condition found in Protoptychus is a starting point 

 from which the modern character of the family could easily be 

 derived. The teeth are, it is true, quite different from those of any 

 of the recent genera, and yet the amount and kind of change neces- 

 sary to produce the latter are not greater than have demonstrably 

 occurred in many other families. Among the existing jumping- 

 mice there is great diversity in, the structure of the molars, which it 

 is difficult to reduce to any common plan. 



As yet no member of the family has been detected in the White 

 River formation, but in the succeeding John Day beds the line is 

 carried forward by Paciculus. This genus cannot well be directly 

 ancestral to any of the recent genera, because it has lost all the 

 premolars; but in all other respects, in which its structure is known, 

 it stands in an intermediate position between Protoptychus and 

 Dipus. The molar pattern is already very similar to that of Dipus; 

 the infraorbital foramen has become very large and its lower portion 

 Conns a distinct notch for the passage of the nerve. The interorbital 

 constriction is much deeper than in Dipus, but the cranium has 

 commenced to widen much more markedly than in Pnotoptychus. 

 The incisive foramina and posterior nares remain very much as in 




189.").] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



the Uinta genus. The posterior part of the cranium in the only 

 known skull is so much injured that the character of the mastoids 

 cannot he made out, though they could not have been as large as in 

 Protoptychus, but the tympanies are seen to form large, hemispheri- 

 cal bullae, with very large mental openings, which do not form tubes. 

 The lateral view of the skull bears considerable resemblance to 

 that of Neotoma, as an ancestor of which Padculus is regarded by 

 ( 'ope. 



If the view as to the systematic position of Protoptychus which is 

 here advocated be correct, it follows that the Dipodidce were separ- 

 ated from the true mice at a very early period, and that they form 

 a very distinct line. It offers, however, no objection to the inclusion 

 of the jumping-mice among the Myomorpha, tor the special peculi- 

 arities of the infraorbital canal in the former are shown to be deriva- 

 tive from the murine type. The articulation of the jugal with the 

 lachrymal is probably a primitive feature, which the Dipodidce have 

 retained; this articulation is not only usual among the mammals 

 generally, but is also found in the earliest rodents, such as Paramys. 

 Another conclusion which follows from the reference of Protoptychus 

 to the ancestors of the Dipodidce is in regard to the position which 

 should be assigned to Zapus. This genus displays the skull character- 

 istics of the Dipodidce in a much less extreme degree than the other 

 existing members of the family. This is especially true of the audi- 

 tory bulla, the mastoid portion of which is very small and but little 

 inflated. If Protoptychus be really ancestral to the Dipodidce, then 

 Zapus either must have suffered a degradation and reduction of the 

 mastoid elements, or it is not related to the jumping-mice at all. 

 The first alternative is much the more probable one. This mode 

 of development, namely, the advance of a certain structure up to a 

 maximum, followed by a decline in that structure, is not an uncom- 

 mon occurrence, and is so familiar that it would be superfluous to 

 cite examples here. Such an alternation in the development of one 

 or more parts is compatible with the continually advancing ditiereu- 

 tiation of the organism as a whole. If this conclusion be well 

 founded, then Zapus is not, in any sense, a connecting link between 

 the Muridce and the Dipodidce, but a simplified member of the lat- 

 ter. We have, as yet, no means of determining how far the foot- 

 structure of Zapus retains its primitive characters, but judging from 

 the analogy of other groups, it is probable that the foot is primitive 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



rather than retrograde. In very many, perhaps the majority of 

 cases, the skull is modernized earlier than the feet. 



A very much more difficult problem is to determine what 

 relation, if any, exists between Protoptychus and the Heteromyidce. 

 In most schemes of classification this family and the Geomyidce are 

 referred to the Myomorpha, but several authorities deny the pro- 

 priety of such a reference. Winge/in particular, rejects the division 

 of the simplicidentate rodents into three sections, and founds his 

 arrangement of the order principally upon the characters of the mas- 

 ticatory muscles and upon the modifications of the skull which 

 accompany these characters. On account of the anterior position of 

 the infraorbital foramen and the imperforate zygomatic process of the 

 maxillary, the "Sacomyidce" (which include both families) are 

 brought into relation with the beavers, marmots and squirrels. The 

 obvious objection to this method of classification is that it ignores the 

 possibility of the independent acquisition of similiar structures in 

 widely separated series, through convergent or parallel development, 

 processes, the reality and frequency of which are not open to question. 

 All available evidence goes to show that in the primitive rodent type 

 the zygomatic process of the maxillary was perforated by a large 

 opening, and that the jngal extended up along the anterior edge of 

 the orbit to the lachrymal. There is nothing impossible in the sug- 

 gestion that the condition of these parts found in the Geomyidce and 

 Heteromyidce may have been derived from some such arrangement 

 as that which occurs in Protoptychus. In the latter the dentition and 

 the structure of the cranium also suggest a relationship with the 

 Heteromyidce. It is, however, not at all probable that the Uinta 

 genus is directly ancestral to any of the latter family, because the 

 condition of the incisive foramina is so totally different. Until the 

 connecting links are recovered, it will not be possible to decide 

 whether the suggestive resemblances between Protoptychus and the 

 pocket-mice are due to any actual relationship, or are merely 

 instances of convergence. 



As a contribution to this question, it may be of use to consider the 

 relationship between the Geomyidce and the Heteromyidce. In con- 

 trasting these two families, Cones 2 has enumerated the following points 



1 Winge, If. Rongeurs fossiles et vivants tie Lagoa Santa, Miuas Geraes, 

 Bresil. E Museo Lundii. I. Copenhagen, 1888. 



2 Cones, /'.. and J. A. Allen, Monographs of North American Kodenls. 

 U. S. Geolog. Survey of the Territories, Vol. XI, pp. 492-3. 




1895.] NATURAL SCTENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. '- >S;> ' 



of difference between them. Certain of his categories are here omitted, 

 as not hearing upon the points to he discussed and some verbal changes 

 have been made to render the nomenclature consistent with that used 

 in the body of this paper. 



GEOMYIDiE. 



1. Skull massive, angular, in 1. 



general of an arvicoline su- 

 perficies. 



2. [nterorbital space narrower 



than rostrum. 



:;. Skull widest across zygomatic :'•. 

 arches. 



4 Palate sloping strongly down- 4. 

 ward, far below level of zygo- 

 mata. 



5. Nasals not produced beyond 5. 



incisors, rostrum broad, 

 blunt, parallel sided. 



6. Frontals compressed. 6. 



7. Parietals compressed, irregu- 7. 



larly linear, remote from 

 orbits. 



8. Squamosal roofing most of 



cerebral cavity, from roof of 

 which mastoids are ex- 

 cluded. 

 'K Auditory meatus contracted, 9. 

 tubular. 



10. Tympanic bullae widely dis- 



crete. 



11. Supraoccipital broad, forming 11 



most of occipital plane, but 

 not mounting on top of 

 skull. 



12. Molars rootless. 12. 



13. Large, erect, falcate corouoid, 13. 



ovei topping condyle. 



14. Lower jaw large and strong. 14. 



15. Fore-limbs highly fossorial; 15. 



claws much enlarged, fitted 

 for digging. 



16. Eyes and ears minute. 16. 



17. Habits completely subter- 17. 



raneau. 



HETEROMYIDjE. 



( excl. Heteromys. ) 



Skull delicate, with rounded 

 oil angles and slight ridges, 

 if any. 



Luterorbital space much 

 wider than rostrum. 



Skull widest across mastoids. 



Palate nearly horizontal, lit- 

 tle, if any, below level of 

 zygomata. 



Nasals produced beyond in- 

 cisors, rostrum compressed, 

 tapering, acute. 



Frontals very broad. 



Parietals broad, triangular or 

 pentagonal, coming to edge 

 of orbits. 



Squamosals mostly or wholly 

 restricted to orbits; mastoids 

 roofing much of cerebral 

 cavity. 



Meatus inflated, vestibular. 



Tympanies approximated or 



in contact at apices. 



Supraoccipital contracted, 

 scarcely or not entering occi- 

 pital plane, but mounting 

 to top of skull to there em- 

 brace interparietal between 

 its forks. 



Molars rooted (except in 

 Dipodomyince). 



Small, sloping, prickle-shaped 



corouoid, below condyle. 



Lower jaw small and weak. 



Hind-limbs saltatorial. Fore- 

 claws not enlarged or spe- 

 cially fossorial. 



Eyes and ears large. 



Habits exposed. 



The two families agree in the following respects: (1) The mastoids 

 are much inflated (except in Heteromys) and occupy much of the 

 superior or occipital surfaces of the skull, or both. (2) The infra- 




284 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



orbital foramen is small and perforates the maxillary far in front of 

 the zygomatic process, which is expanded and imperforate, much as 

 in the Sciuromorphs. (3) The hinder end of the incisor makes a 

 protuberance on the mandible below the condyle. (4) There are 

 large fur-lined cheek-pouches, opening externally. 



That the Geomyidce and the Heteromyidce are closely related to 

 one another is admitted by all who have studied them, almost the 

 only difference of opinion on the subject being as to whether they 

 should be grouped in one family or in two. Just wherein this 

 relationship consists is another and less simple question and it may 

 be answered in one of three ways: (1) The Geomyidce have 

 descended from the Heteromyidce; or (2) the latter have descended 

 from the former; or (3) both should be derived from a common 

 ancestor which was not sufficiently differentiated to be properly 

 referred to either family. Improbable as it may appear, the evi- 

 dence distinctly favors the first of these three alternatives. To 

 regard the manifold resembhmces between the two groups as due to 

 parallelism or convergence is a mere assumption which is without 

 any evidence to sustain it. The belief that the Geomyidce have 

 descended from the Heteromyidce involves the inference that the com- 

 paratively small size of the mastoid in the former is the result of 

 reduction from a more exaggerated development. The John Day 

 genera Entoptychtis and Pleurolicus, which differ from each other 



Fig. 5. Pleurolu us diplophysus ; cranium, 

 from above: natural size. From Cope. 



Fig. C. Pleurolicus diplophysus ; 

 occiput, from behind; natural 

 size. From Cope. 



only in the fact that the latter has rooted and the former rootless 

 molars, throw much light on this question. In skull structure they 

 arc so nearly intermediate between the two families, that the 

 reference of them to either seems somewhat arbitrary, though, on 

 the whole, they incline distinctly to the Geomyidce, as is shown in the 

 following points of resemblance: (1) The interorbital space is 

 narrower than the rostrum; (2) the palate is sloping and below the 

 level of the zygomatic arches; (3) the nasals are not produced 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



beyond the incisors and the rostrum is broad, blunt and parallel- 

 sided; (4) the frontals are very narrow; (5) the parietals are nar- 

 row, linear and do not extend to the orbits: (6) the supraoecipital 

 does not extend upon the top of the skull; (7) the lower jaw is large 

 and strong; (8) the skull is massive and angular, with well defined 

 ridges and in some species with a sagittal crest. On the other hand, 

 the resemblances to the Heteromyidoe are confined to the. temporal and 

 occipital regions. (1) The greatest width of the skull is across the 

 mastoids; (2) the auditory meatus is inflated and in some species 

 vestibular; (3) the tympanies form large bullae and have the anterior 

 flask-like prolongation found in most of the recent Heteromyidoe, but 

 their apices are more widely separated; (4) the mastoids are largely 

 inflated and appear on the top of the skull, but roof in less of the 

 cranial cavity than iu most of the recent genera; (5) the occiput is 

 almost square and much narrowed by the encroachment of the 

 mastoids. The shape and position of the infraorbital and incisive 

 foramina and the protuberance on the mandible formed by the end 

 of the incisor are as in the modern members of both families. The 

 coronoid process of the mandible is intermediate in character, being 

 larger and higher than in the recent Heteromyidce, smaller and 

 lower than in the Geomyidce. A difference from both is in the shape 

 of the mandibular angle, which is large, falciform and but little 

 • verted. The limb-bones, so far as they are known, resemble those of 

 Thomomys, except for the presence of the third trochanter on the femur. 

 These John Day genera are quite inexplicable except upon the 

 hypothesis that they are ancestral to the Geomyidce ; to regard them 

 as an offshoot of the Geomyidce which have in some respects paralleled 

 the Heteromyidce is a purely gratuitous assumption unsupported by 

 any evidence. The existing Geomyidce are all exclusively subter- 

 ranean and fossorial in their habits, with very small eyes and ears, 

 and in them any extreme delicacy of hearing would be out of 

 place. Further, the inflated mastoids of the existing pocket-gophers 

 are intelligible enough as a character acquired under different cir- 

 cumstances of life and retained now in a reduced degree, while it 

 is difficult to see how such a character should ever be acquired by 

 burrowing animals. Another fact pointing to the same conclusion 

 is that, as Merriam 3 has shown in his admirable monograph, the 



;1 Merriam. C. H. Monographic Revision <>f the Pocket Gophers, etc. U. S. 

 Dep't of Agriculture, North American Fauna, No. 8, Washington, 1895. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



mastoid bullae are filled with cancellous bone, which there is rea- 

 son to believe is a sign of degeneracy. Similar reductions of the 

 tympanic bullae are not infrequent. To give but one example out 

 of many, iu the recent peccaries the tympanies form small bullae filled 

 with cancellous hone, while in the White River ancestor of the 

 group, Perchcerus, the bullae are hollow and largely inflated. It 

 is altogether unlikely, on the other hand, that Entoptychus and 

 Pleurolicus can be ancestral to the Heteromyidce, because, in the 

 first place, the skull and skeleton are too fur advanced on the line 

 of the pocket-gophers and indicate that the burrowing habit had 

 already been more or less perfectly acquired, and, in the second 

 place, because in the imperfectly known White River genera Gym- 

 noptychus and Heliscomys we seem to find distinctly marked fore- 

 runners of the pocket-mice. 



SUMMARY. 



(I ) Protoptychus, a now rodent from the Uinta Eocene, is an unex- 

 pectedly modernized form, which has already acquired very large 

 mastoid bullae, a rostrum, incisive foramina and posterior nares 

 greatly resembling those of the jumping-mice, and, as in that 

 family, the articulation of the jugal with the lachrymal is retained. 

 The infraorbital foramen is of the murine type. The dentition and 

 the shape and construction of the mastoid and surrounding parts 

 of the cranium most resemble those of the Heteromyidce. 



i 2) The genus is probably to be regarded as the ancestral type 

 of the Dipodidce and indicates an American origin for this family, 

 being much more ancient than any known representative of the 

 group in the Old World, which it appears to have reached by a 

 comparatively late migration. Paciculus of the John Day beds is a 

 somewhat aberrant number of the same line. 



(3) It is not improbable that the Heteromyidce were derived from 

 some form related to Protoptychus, though not from that genus itself. 



( I ) The Geomyidce are descended from early forms which may 

 West he referred to the Heteromyidce and in which the tympanies 

 and the mastoids were already greatly inflated. The assumption of 

 subterranean habits of life brought about a reduction in this region 

 of the skull and led to the acquisition of the many peculiarities 

 which characterize the recent pocket-gophers. Pleurolicus and 

 Entoptychus represent stages in this change and are more or less 

 directly ancestral to the modern Geomyidce. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



THE JELLY-LIKE SECRETION OF THE FRUIT OF PELTANDRA 



UNDULATA Raf. 



* 



BY IDA A. KELLER. 



Having some time ago determined the origin of the thick coating 

 of jelly investing the younger parts of Brasenia peltata, Pursh, 1 I 

 was curious to seek the cause of a similiar secretion found in the 

 fruit of Peltandra undulata Raf., a plant widely separated from the 

 former so far as its natural relationship is concerned. 



The stage of development which first attracted my attention to 

 the voluminous secretion of this plant is represented in fig. 1, PI. 

 XII, where a, b, and e show three different views of the same plantlet. 

 Above may be seen the first leaf, I, thick, green and cotyledon-like. 

 Within this, and partly protruding beyond it, the second leaf, I. b. 

 The portion circumscribed by a rather wavy outline, /. is the jelly- 

 like mass in question. Roots are also beginning to emerge, as indi- 

 cated by r. 



The question naturally arose, from what portion of the fruit does 

 the jelly originate? Is it produced from special glandular organs as 

 in the case of Brasenia peltata Pursh, or is it the result of a meta- 

 morphosis of certain cells into this peculiar gelatinous mass without 

 the intervention of glands? Before proceeding to answer these 

 questions I will briefly outline the, anatomy of the fruit of this 

 plant. The fruit of the members of the Aracese family is, as we 

 are told, usually a berry. It appears to me, however, that the most 

 essential characteristic of this type of fruit, the well developed meso- 

 carp, enclosing the seed as a fleshy mass, is here conspicuously 

 reduced. The whole mass of tissue representing the pericarp, con- 

 sists of a few layers of cells, represented in fig. 2. It has the 

 appearance of a thin integument such as we find in a caryopsis or 

 utricle rather than that of a pulpy envelope. The material which I 

 had at command was, as a rule, one, or rarely two-seeded. Fig. 3 

 shows such a one-seeded fruit cut through lengthwise. The spheri- 

 cal embryo is represented by e. ; below e. is an empty space, v. Be- 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., March 28, 1893. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



tvveeu the seed and the pericarp is found a mass of jelly, which, it 

 should he noted, is present before germination. 



In my search for the origin of this jelly-like secretion, I observed 

 that it adhered firmly to the seed-coat, and I was inclined to believe 

 that possibly the latter might in some way give rise to this substance. 

 On examination I found no trace of glandular organs upon the 

 episperm nor did the outer cells themselves indicate gelatinatiou. 

 I continued my search, however. Fig. 2 sufficiently indicates that 

 we find neither special glands nor metamorphosed cells in the portion 

 of the pericarp represented in the drawing. It represents almost any 

 part of the pericarp, except that which I shall now describe. My 

 attention was next directed to the thickening, 11., fig. 3, which corre- 

 sponds to the point of attachment of the fruit to the spadix. This 

 is brown in color and quite rugose. On making sections I found 

 that the wrinkles or folds are thickly heset with trichomes, shown 

 in fig. 4. They are more or less club shaped, of a brownish color, 

 especially en mussc, and of a varying size. In general appearance 

 there is a striking resemblance to the glandular hairs producing 

 the gelatinous coating on the young leaves of Braserda peltata 

 Pursh, and I have no doubt that the jelly-like secretion of the fruit 

 of Peltandra undulata Raf. owes its origin to those glandular 

 trichomes situated in the basal thickening of the pericarp. This 

 view was confirmed by subsequent observations, especially during 

 the process of germination. The first indication of germination 

 is probably the swelling of the jelly-like mass, thereby ruptur- 

 ing the pericarp, which is thrown otf, maintaining, however, its 

 attachment to the secretion, wlfere this, according to the view just 

 expressed, originates from it. Peculiar striae may be observed in 

 the jelly, all tending toward the point of attachment, fig. 6, n. 



That the formation of the secretion is not in any way connected 

 with the development of the embryo, was proven conclusively upon 

 opening imperfectfruits, fig. 7, /./'., in which the ovules were either 

 abortive or not fertilized, there being no embryo and the whole 

 cavity being completely filled with jelly. The function of producing 

 the jelly must therefore devolve upon the pericarp, and of this the 

 only portion which seems adapted to this kind of activity is the 

 thickening at the base, above referred to. 



In my paper on Braserda peltata Pursh I have called attention 

 to the fact that the great quantity of water which is the principal 




1895.] NATUKAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADEXjPHIA. 289 



constituent of every gelatinous secretion, is in this particular ease, in 

 all probability, derived directly from the water surrounding the plant 

 than that which is carried through the tissue of the plant to the 

 glandular organs. The secretion in the fruit of Peltandra undulata 

 Waf. is not in close contact with an aqueous medium, and it appears to 

 me a significant fact that the tissue upon which the glands of this plant 

 are supported is traversed by spiral vessels, being thereby well sup- 

 plied with water-conducting tissue. The water in this case must of 

 necessity be carried through the plant to the interior of the fruit. 



A few more observations deserve a passing notice: When I col- 

 lected my material for study October 7, 1894, I observed that 

 some of the fruits had left, the spadix while others still crowded 

 anmnd it surrounded by the tough spathe. About a dozen of the 

 seeds I threw into a jar containing water. Of these only three sur- 

 vived and germinated in March of this year. Figs. 8 and 9 

 are drawings of seedlings as they appeared on April 15, and 

 the plants continued to live until the beginning of May, although 

 they had no soil to root in. 



On April 18, of this year, Mr. MacElwee showed me a locality 

 near Gray's Ferry Station where Peltandra grows. Although the 

 seeds which I had collected last year had germinated a month ago, we 

 found that most of the seeds at this locality just barely showed the 

 protruding tip of the first leaf, and some showed no siinis whatever 

 of sprouting. It cannot be said that the appearance of the jelly is 

 invariably the first indication of activity in the seed, since I noticed 

 repeatedly that the bud may appear while the secretion is still 

 encased in the pericarp. The plantlet represented in fig. 8, did 

 not throw back the pericarp either during germination or after- 

 ward. 



Some of the fruits were placed on very wet sand and in a few days 

 there were signs of vigorous growth, fig. 10. Others were thrown on 

 water, and, although development took place, fig. 11, it did not 

 seem as healthy as when the fruits were allowed to rest upon a solid, 

 although thoroughly wet, substratum. The difference may be ap- 

 preciated on comparing figs. 10 and 11, and this difference 

 became more marked later on. 



So far I have not found any satisfactory explanation for the de- 

 velopment of this peculiar jelly-like secretion in the fruits of Pel- 

 tandra undulata Raf. , its persistence during germination, and its 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



disappearance afterwards. It is probable that its function is protection, 

 but the problem as to the special protection needed in this particular 

 case, cau be best solved by observing the germination of the seed 

 in its natural environment. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



June 4. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-Presideut, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 



June 11. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



June 18. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Fifty-four persons present. 



June 25. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Diptera of Florida, by C. W. Johnson; with 

 additional descriptions of new genera and species," by D. W. 

 Coquillett, was presented for publication. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 



21 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



MEMOIR OF JOHN HOWARD REDFIELD. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



The task assigned to me by the Academy of preparing a suitable 

 memoir of our late fellow-member, John Howard Redfield, is not an 

 easy one. To make famous one who sought not fame; and to tell to 

 the world of science the story of the life of one whose modesty and 

 self-abnegation scarcely allowed him to appreciate the value of 

 his own work, is surely a difficult undertaking. It has been my 

 fortune to have an acquaintance with mankind to an extent enjoyed 

 by few; with men and women famous in many walks of life; but I 

 have rarely known one who worked with such an earnest purpose 

 to be useful, and who was at the same time so indifferent as to 

 whether the world knew of it or not, or whether he received credit 

 for the work which he had done. Associated with him as I have 

 been in the botanical work of the Academy since the early sixties, 

 and I may say closely connected with him in that work for the past 

 twenty years, I am amazed, now that he is gone, when I think of 

 how little I know of the man beyond his own beloved personality in 

 connection with that work. Once only did he stop to tell me of his 

 early life-struggle in the pursuit of knowledge. Referring to an early 

 incident in my own life occasioned by a little fern we were examin- 

 ing, it moved him to say how similar were our experiences. Though 

 but four years of age he could remember going with his father to 

 visit his mother's grave, and how much he became interested in the 

 flowers which grew there; of his being told that one was the 

 "yarrow," and of his remembering the plant by this name forever 

 after; how his father, like himself, had no early advantages but 

 with an insatiable curiosity and such scientific books as chance threw 

 in his way, was continually talking to him, as he grew in years, of 

 the cause and eflect of natural phenomena as he understood them; 

 how his father and he took a wagon ride to his wife's relations 

 through a storm-torn forest; while the son was looking for flowers, 

 minerals, shells and anything that was curious, the father was noting 

 the different directions in which the trees had been prostrated, and 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



was thus led ultimately to discover the rotary motion of storms 

 and tornadoes; how the simplest elements of knowledge only were 

 taught in the district school by peripatetic teachers who boarded 

 around, and taught during the terms, Lindley's English Reader, 

 Milton's Paradise Lost, the Bible and Cook's Voyages being nearly 

 all the books within reach. Amoug all these varied teachers he 

 remembered two women, to whom he was especially indebted for his 

 love of flowers and nature. They fixed in him his earlier tendencies 

 and he was emphatic in his belief that for boys under ten years of 

 age good women, all other things being equal, rather than men, 

 make the best teachers. His father brought him from New York a 

 Latin grammar and reader, and he tried in a measure to teach him- 

 self. He was now at an age — ten years — -to appreciate the value 

 of knowledge, and would recite his lesson to the minister of their 

 church. A literary society was founded in the vicinity, encouraged 

 mainly by his father, and it was, he thought, this little institution 

 which made a man of him, though there were not over three hundred 

 volumes in the library. One of these books was Thornton's Grammar 

 of Botany. He felt himself something of a botanist from that time. 

 His father subsequently moved to New York. Here a school on 

 the Lancasterian system was established, a system in which the 

 advanced boys, as monitors, aided in teaching the classes; but instead 

 of the mere elementary studies in the general Lancasterian system, 

 a higher school was established in which mathematics, drawing, 

 bookkeeping, the ancient and modern languages, and something 

 of a business collegiate course was attempted. His father having 

 met with financial reverses, the boy had to leave school when four- 

 teen years of age and help to support himself by entering as a clerk 

 in a dry goods store, his work being to clean, dust and deliver 

 parcels. Thus he passed three years, keeping up, however, his early 

 habit of self-culture in all his spare time. The story was so interest- 

 ing that I made a note of it, and this is all our good friend ever said 

 to me of himself. 



I was elected a member of the Academy in 1860, and at once 

 applied myself to assist Mr. Elias Durand, who alone seemed in- 

 terested in the herbarium at that time. Mr. Redfield, a few years 

 later, though actively engaged in business, made a practice of drop- 

 ping in for a short time at noon, daily, to give encouragement by 

 his presence at least. This was my first acquaintance with him. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1895. 



Mr. Durand died soon after. The collection was in a deplorable 

 condition. Mr. Durand had been very generous of his time and 

 abilities, but all he could do was in connection with the North 

 American herbarium. The building was on the line of a dusty 

 street, and the dust-covered packages of genera or natural orders 

 were quite repel lant. Mr. Redfield's cheering calls were bright 

 spots in my lonely task. I tried, however, to interest some of my 

 correspondents in behalf of the herbarium. Dr. Gray's reply was 

 suggestive. "What is the use of throwing valuable material into a 

 dust bin ? ' I was pondering over the note when Mr. Redfield 

 made his daily call. "Never mind that," said he, in his cheery 

 manner, " I shall have more time soon, and the new building is to go 

 up near my residence. We will show them what sort of a 'dustbin' 

 we shall have after a while." From this time he began active work 

 on the herbarium, looking at first into the few collections, and com- 

 menced the great task he imposed on himself, resulting in giving us 

 a herbarium of which botanical science everywhere is proud. His 

 intelligent earnestness made friends for the Academy everywhere, 

 and it is pleasant to note that among all these friends no one was 

 more liberal or generous than the author of the "dust bin" note. 

 With the exception of the three summer months when he took a 

 vacation to northern sea shores, every day was given to herbarium 

 work, while many of his evenings were devoted to correspondence 

 with botanical friends all over the world. At his death he had 

 catalogued and indexed so that any specimen can be examined in a 

 few seconds, the whole collection numbering some thirty-five thou- 

 sand species of flowering plants and ferns. He had, with the aid of 

 an assistant, verified and fastened one-half of the specimens. 



The Academy is indebted to John H. Redfield not only for his 

 great labors in behalf of the herbarium, but for the influence of his 

 personal character. His amiable qualities endeared him to every 

 one with whom he came in contact; his generous helpfulness, espe- 

 cially to younger botanists, carried gratitude to many distant re- 

 gions; eminent men from all parts of the world honored him and 

 nave him pleasure by calling on him and enjoying his hospitality 

 when passing through the city. The Academy profited by the many 

 gifts of plants made as a tribute to'his worth. It is probable no one 

 ever heard Mr. Redfield make an ill-natured remark of another even 

 under temptation. Always full of good humor, he would even in a 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



controversy incline by some pleasant remark to allow the verdict to 

 go against himself. In this connection he was fond of repeating an 

 anecdote. A Scotchman returning to his native village inquired of the 

 sexton the state of affairs. The sexton sadly reported the decadence 

 of religion. In his opinion the only adherents of the true faith were 

 himself and the dominie, and sometimes he had "doots" about the 

 minister himself. He would suggest that perhaps he might be as 

 critical of the views of his friends as Sandy was. Loving appropri- 

 ate stories to illustrate his points, he enjoyed them when used by 

 others. He often quoted from Dr. Gray, who, like himself, was 

 overflowing with good nature. Mr. Redfield had asked him to let 

 him have some duplicates if there were any. It happened that 

 there was but a single set, and no duplicates. Dr. Gray's pleasant 

 response was: " As the boy said when the other hoped for a bite of 

 the apple, and modestly asked for the core, ' Billy, there ain't goin' 

 to be no core in this apple." Such humorous stories usually came 

 in when it was evident further discussion was hopeless of results. 



There were, however, a few topics on which his exceptional good 

 nature would admit of no compromise, even in the way of a plea- 

 sant remark of no great consequence either way. One of these 

 was the well-meaning effort of some botanists to strictly enforce 

 the rule of priority in botanical nomenclature. To him, Conser- 

 vator of a great herbarium, the effort admitted of no joke. The 

 older names to replace those long adopted were so numerous, that 

 the revolution meant to him the comparative uselessness of his 

 life-long work. There must be new numbers, new lists, new names 

 on the sheets, new alphabetical indexes. He could not begin that 

 great work of change at his time of life, nor could he see anyone 

 in prospect who would. He vigorously contended that there must 

 be something wrong in an effort that would render such life-work 

 as his comparatively useless. Commendations for the stand he 

 had taken in this matter were among the greatest pleasures of his 

 latter days. 



Since his active connection with the Academy, he seems not 

 to have taken many long botanical excursions. One, however, 

 the pleasure of which he loved to recall, was made in the summer 

 of 1876, in company with Mr. W. M. Canby, Dr. Asa Gray, Dr. 

 Eugelmann and Prof. C. S. Sargent, through the mountains of 

 North Carolina, the result of which considerably enriched the 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



herbarium of the Academy. In 1879 he made another journey 

 to North Carolina with Dr. Gray to see where Shortia grew. One 

 may see from the scrupulous care with which every fact of import- 

 ance is noted on the labels attached to the plants collected on 

 these journeys how well trained to conscientious accuracy his 

 mind had been. His work for the day would be finished and 

 cleared up as if he never expected to resume it again ; and when 

 he undertook a task his mind dwelt on it until the end had been 

 reached. Happening, while penning these lines, to open a volume 

 on my table treating of the Celastracese, I find a letter between 

 the pages which well illustrates this finished character. We had 

 together been working up an unnamed collection from Tabasco in 

 Mexico. Leaving in the afternoon, I expected to be again in the 

 herbarium the next or at most the day after. But he could not 

 wait, and the lettertcame the next morning: "Phila., March 3rd, 

 1893. My Dear Meehan : I enclose you two or three softened 

 flowers of our last adversarium for you to examine. As /see them, 

 they have five rounded imbricate sepals, five strongly reflexed petals, 

 five stamens alternate tvith the petals, filaments conical, no style, but 

 stigma sessile on the ovary. The ovary is too small for my poor 

 eyes to dissect. 



Try every way I can, I am driven back to Celastrinse, and I 

 have a suspicion that our plant may be Zinowieivia integerrima 

 Turcz. B. & H. I, 364. B. & H. description says "stylus brevis," 

 but the original description says "stigma sessile on the ovary." 

 B, & H. say "folia opposita, " but if I recollect right, the origi- 

 nal description says "leaves alternate." But there are some diffi- 

 culties about this view. Yours, J. H. R. " 



On some other occasion, when we would feel the "nut too hard 

 to crack,' ' I would hardly be home before there would be a 

 brief note, "Eureka!" and the name following as he had deter- 

 mined it. It must be to this habit of beginning and finishing at 

 once if possible, that we must ascribe the wonderful amount of 

 work accomplished. He commenced the work of putting the herba- 

 rium in order in 1870. In addition to the preparation for fastening 

 down the specimens and the accompanying label, on which work he 

 was engaged at the time of his death, he had previously arranged 

 in genus-covers the whole collection, writing on each the genus 

 and the numbers to correspond with Bentham and Hooker's work, 




1*95.] NATURAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



aud made :i corresponding index of classes and orders, so that any 

 genus could be found in a few seconds. All the species had 

 been alphabetically arranged in the genus covers, and an alpha- 

 betical list of the named species pasted inside. Anyone can see 

 at a glance whether the plant he is looking for is in the collec- 

 tion. Besides this, in the section of ferns, the whole collection 

 is written up in a handsome bound volume, with an index that 

 not only enables one to find at once the plant desired but also its 

 geographical range and many other facts of importance to the 

 student of pteridology. By reason of this careful cataloguing he 

 was able to tell exactly the number of species the herbarium con- 

 tained, information few care-takers of herbariums can give. A 

 careful record was kept of every donation, and the donors' names, 

 like the names of the plants themselves, could soon be given to 

 any inquirer. And yet he never seemed unduly hurried. In, ad- 

 dition to this he had formed a great herbarium of his own, and 

 had made extensive collections in other fields of natural history. 

 Moreover, he maintained to the last an interest in many other 

 branches of science and in the many fields of general intelligence 

 that commanded the attention of public spirited citizens. He was 

 fond of looking up facts in the lives of useful men, placing them 

 on record, and getting in shape for reference any go>d work 

 that they had done. He prepared for his family a full gene- 

 alogy of their ancestry. Another valuable task that he accom- 

 plished was the collection and arranging of the botanical correspon- 

 dence of Zaccheus Collins, which precious volume is kept for safety 

 in the fireproof of the Academy. The work is invaluable for the 

 light it sheds on the lives and labors of our early botanists. When 

 Michaux's Journal was discovered among the archives of the Ameri- 

 can Philosophical Society and Prof Sargent decided to translate 

 it from French to English, and have copies printed, he aided the 

 Professor in overseeing its issue from the press. He was always 

 ready for every such call. 



It seems but yesterday that I heard his last remark to me: " I 

 must lay these aside now, as I will attend the Forestry Convention 

 at 4 o'clock," and even the last letter he wrote to me on his death 

 bed was full of his work. "I felt chillier than I ought to be when 

 I was in the herbarium room on Friday, and went home. I am 

 resting in bed now, and the Botanical Section meeting to-night must 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



take care of itself." To many who have since paused to reflect on 

 the wonderful amount of work accomplished, his methodical and 

 systematic habits furnish the only explanation. Frequently he has 

 been approached by friends to allow the use of his name for the 

 higher honors of the Academy. This he always declined. He 

 could never be induced, even in the Botanical Section, to accept any 

 higher position than Conservator of the herbarium. He served 

 many years as Councillor, in which position his business training 

 rendered eminent service, and he succeeded Dr. Joseph Leidy as 

 Chairman of the Publication Committee of the Academy. 



Aside from his services to science in the Academy, the outer 

 scientific world is largely his debtor. When the American Society 

 of Geologists became the American Association for the Advance- 

 ment of Science, the father, W. C. Redfield, suggested the change 

 and' was the first President of the new body, the son being a 

 member. The Lyceum of Natural History of New York had 

 the benefit of his able services before his removal to Philadelphia, 

 in 1861, to be associated in the business of Asa Whitney & Sons 

 — the senior member of the firm being his father-in-law. At the 

 request of his family he penned for them an account of his early 

 history and of his connection with the New York Lyceum, which I 

 have been kindly permitted to examine, and from which I gather 

 the following facts. In the preface to this little family task he con- 

 cludes : ' ' Moreover ought I not to leave some expression of grati- 

 tude to my Heavenly Father for a life which has been so full of 

 mercies, which has flowed so evenly and so smoothly, disturbed by 

 few storms and tempests, and of which the few sharp afflictions have 

 been tempered with mercies, calling for thanksgiving." 



He traces the American family to Win, Redfin, of English 

 birth, who settled near Cambridge, Mass., in 1639, and who subse. 

 quently moved to New London, Connecticut. The form Redfield was 

 assumed before 1662. His only son, James Redfield, was a tanner. 

 His son, Theophilus Redfield, married a descendent of John Alden, 

 of Mayflower celebrity. Peleg, the grandson of Theophilus, the 

 grandfather of John Howard Redfield, was born at Middletown, 

 Connecticut, January 22, 1762. He entered a privateer during the 

 war of Independence, was captured by a British frigate, but escaped; 

 he died in 1802. Win. C. Redfield was Peleg's eldest son. He 

 was born at South Farms, Connecticut, March, 26, 1789. He was 




1895.] NAT URAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



apprenticed to a saddler, joined a village debating society, and, 

 under the inspiration of his mother, spent all his spare time in self- 

 instruction. 



J. H. Redfield was born at Middletown, Conn., July 10, 1815. 

 His mother died when he was but four years old. His father at this 

 time had a saddler's shop and country store. His early education 

 has been already told. In this account Mr. Redfield notes that 

 every country store sold liquor, but in 1830 his father refused, as a 

 matter of conscience, to sell any more. About 1825 his father be- 

 coming interested in steam barge traffic on the Hudson, spent most 

 of his time in New York, and in 1827 took his family there. John 

 was sent to a Laucasterian school. It furnished good, although cheap, 

 education — ($51.50 a year). The principal teacher, Rev. Samuel U. 

 Barnes, originally a Baptist clergyman, gave natural history lessons 

 on the blackboard. He gave J. H. Redfield and six other boys 

 extra lessons in mineralogy, taking them on excursions on Saturdays. 

 Barnes was one of the founders of the New York Lyceum. He used 

 to join in the sports of the boys as well as their studies, and for the 

 first time in his life young Redfield loved school. 



The father took every means to advance the son's education 

 as opportunity afforded. Though personal assiduity did much, he 

 owed much to the teachers employed by his father for him. He 

 had this help in the several languages he acquired, the Italian, 

 which he mastered late in life, being the only one he learned wholly 

 by himself. In 1853 he left school finally and became a clerk in the 

 "Swift Sure Line" of steamboats. His father died in 1858, but he 

 continued in the office three years longer, till removing to Phila- 

 delphia. 



The New York Lyceum was organized April 24, 1817, and be- 

 came the New York Academy of Sciences in 1876. As a new mem- 

 ber of the Lyceum young Redfield thought a tyro had made a mistake 

 in venturing among great men, but he found them all so child-like 

 and genial that his agitation was soon dispelled. Dr. Asa Gray, the 

 librarian, was especially cordial. Young Redfield had his first 

 scientific appointment as one of a committee to rent a room. It was 

 thought wonderful that twenty-four members assembled to receive 

 the committee's report. His father gave occasional addresses on 

 meteorology and geology. Dr. John C. Jay first made conchology 

 interesting in the Lvceum and Redfield became charmed with that 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



study. His father was second Vice-President of the Lyceum of 

 Natural History from 1847 to 1851, and first Vice-President from 

 1852 to 1863, and the son was Corresponding Secretary from 1859 

 to 1860 and previously, from 1857 to 1858, Recording Secretary. He 

 notes Dr. Asa Gray, at that time 26 years old, as coming into the 

 Lyceum about 1853. Dr. Torrey was an early friend of W. C. 

 Redfield, so the son knew him before he joined the Lyceum. Though 

 botany was the son's early love, threatened impairment of eye-sight 

 diverted him to couchology. He soon became again warmly in- 

 terested in botany, rising for collecting excursions at four in the 

 morning. 



Passing now to his labors with us, it may be noted that he rarely 

 missed a meeting of the Academy, and was one of the most regular 

 in throwing into the general fund such knowledge as he possessed on 

 the subjects discussed. He may be regarded as the chief founder of 

 the Botanical Section, and he gave freely of his knowledge in most of 

 the discussions before the Section. Reports of many of his verbal 

 communications have been published in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy. 



His first contribution to scientific literature was in 1860, when he 

 described a new shell — a species of Marginella. He furnished the 

 notes on the genus Marginella as described in Reave's Conchologia 

 Icouica and in Tryon's American Journal of Couchology in 1869' 

 and 1870. His nine earlier papers in the Annals of the New York 

 Lyceum, relate wholly to conchological subjects. The "Bulletin 

 of the Torrey Botanical Club" contains a number of articles by 

 him on botanical topics, one of which, " The Geographical Dis- 

 tribution of the Ferns of North America," in the volume for 

 1875, is of standard value, as is also the paper on " Insular Flora" 

 in the volume for 1886. His greatest and last contribution is the 

 " Preliminary Catalogue of the Plants growing on Mt. Desert and 

 adjacent islands," by Edward L. Rand and John H. Redfield, which 

 was issued in 1894. The work, though with characteristic modesty 

 styled a '•preliminary catalogue," ranks among the best of local 

 floras, and will long aid in keeping the name of the associate 

 author fresh in the memory of working botanists. Tributes to his 

 memory from many correspondents all speak of the unselfish good- 

 ness of the man. Our highly veuerated colleague, Dr. Ruschen- 

 berger, who has also recently passed away from us, in a letter 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



written on March 18, but a short time before his own death, 

 remarked on the peculiar modesty of Mr. Redfield: "He never, 

 within my hearing, made his own acts a subject of conversation or 

 reference." Mr. E. L. Rand, his colleague in the preparation of 

 the "Preliminary Catalogue," sums up briefly what so many 

 have expressed more in detail: "Circumstances threw us into 

 the most intimate correspondence and association during the last 

 seven or eight years and made me familiar with his beautiful 

 character. He was always high-principled, simple-hearted, 

 charitable, kind and helpful, an affectionate friend, a wise counsel- 

 lor, an upright judge. I can hardly realize that he is really gone 

 from this earth, and that I am left alone in the work that we pur- 

 sued so long together." 



February the 27ch, 1895, the day on which he passed away, will 

 long be remembered in the annals of the Academy as the 

 anniversary of the loss of one of its most valuable and devoted 

 associates. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



July 2. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



The deaths of H. H. Houston, a member, June 21, 1895, and of 

 Thomas Henry Huxley, a correspondent, June 29, 1895, were 

 announced. 



July 9. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the Chair, 

 Twelve persons present. 



July 16. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



July 23. 



Dr. C. N. Peirce in the Chair. 



Nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "Notes on American Enchytraeidse. — I, New 

 Species of Fridericia from the vicinity of Philadelphia," by J. Percy 

 Moore, was presented for publication. 



July 30. 



Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the Chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 




1895.] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



DIPTEKA OF FLOKIDA. 



by C. W. Johnson. 

 With Additional Descriptions of New Genera and Species. 



BY D. W. COQUILLETT. 



This paper is based upon material collected during a residence in 

 St. Augustine from 1880-88 (although then not especially interested 

 in Diptera); a visit in March, 1891, and again in Ma)', 1894; a 

 collection made by Mrs. Annie T. Slosson during her winter visits; 

 the collection of Mr. Chas. Robertson, of Carlinville, 111.; an 

 interesting lot received from Mr. Frank H. Genung of St. 

 Augustine, and the collection of the U. S. National Museum. The 

 trip of May, 1894, was a conchological one, made in company with 

 Prof. ' H. A. Pilsbry, through the kindness of Mr. Clarence B. 

 Moore, Diptera being an incidental feature. The localities Welakn, 

 Georgetown, Drayton Island, Juniper Creek, Volusia, Astor, and 

 Tick Island are all in the vicinity of Lake George and Lake Wood- 

 ruff. Considering the few species that have actually been recorded 

 from Florida the following list seems a large one, but there is little 

 doubt that this number (504) can be increased more than three 

 times if collections were made in all sections of the State and at differ- 

 ent seasons of the year. A number of West Indian species are here 

 recorded from Florida for the first time as well as the most southern 

 distribution of many northern species. A collection from the Florida 

 Keys would undoubtedly increase the percentage of W T est Indian 

 species, while the western part of the State would add many more 

 species of the Mississippi Valley, Texas, and Mexico. 



While a resident of Florida I was interested in Coleoptera, and the 

 valuable paper, "The Coleoptera of Florida," by Mr. E. A. 

 Schwarz, suggested this list. I only regret that it is not a more 

 complete representation of the fauna, but hope that it will lead to a 

 better knowledge of the Diptera of Florida. 



I am under great obligations to Mr. D. W. Coquillett of Wash- 

 ington, D. C. Without his generous aid this list could not have 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



been made. To Mrs. Slosson for the generous loan of specimens. 

 To Prof. J. M. Aldrich for the determination of the Dolichopodidse. 

 To Prof. Riley for the privilege of looking over the collection of the 

 U. S. National Museum, and to Mr. Chas. Robertson, Mr. W. A. 

 Snow, Dr. S. W. Williston, Mr. W. D. Hunter, and others, for 

 kind assistance. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES. 



BY C. W. JOHNSON. 



Nemotelus immaculatus n. sp. 



Length 4 mm. , $ . Face and vertical triangle blackish ; eyes of 

 a dull brown color (probably much lighter than in the living speci- 

 men); antenna? yellow; proboscis red, unusually long, with an acute 

 angle, the two portions thus formed being of almost equal length, the 

 outer half is curved downward and the basal part of the other is some- 

 what enlarged. Thorax black, with sparse whitish pubescence most 

 prominent on the pleura?; scutellum black; abdomen greenish white, 

 immaculate. Legs light yellow ; wings hyaline, whitish. One speci- 

 men, St. Augustine (F. H. Genung). . 



Nemotelus slossonae n. sp. 



Length 3 mm. , S . Face and vertical triangle black, shining; 

 facial protuberance very prominent, conical ; frontal triangle brown. 

 The upper portion of the eye with large facets brown, the lower 

 third with small facets blackish; antenna? dark brown. Thorax and 

 scutellum black, shining; a narrow light yellow lateral line extends 

 from the humerus to the posterior angle. Abdomen yellowish white; 

 a central mark on the first segment below the scutellum, a dorsal 

 triangle and a small spot near the lateral margin of the fourth, and 

 the fifth except a narrow lateral and posterior margin black; in one 

 specimen there is a minute brown dot near the anterior augle of the 

 third segment. Venter whitish. Legs black; tip of the femora, 

 base and tip of the tibia?, and the tarsi whitish; wings hyaline, whit- 

 ish; discal cell emits four veins. 



Two specimens, Charlotte Harbor, March. To Mrs. Annie T. 

 Slosson, who has done so much to further our knowledge of the 

 Diptera of Florida, this species is dedicated. 



Leptogaster cbscuripennis n. sp. 



Length 13 and 14 mm., $ 9 . Head brown; face, front, inferior 

 orbits and occiput covered with a dense grayish pubescence; pro- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



boscis black, base yellow; antennae yellow, terminal joint and style 

 black. Thorax brown, dorsum shining; lateral margins, pleurae, 

 posterior angles, and scutellum covered with a grayish pubescence. 

 Abdomen: first segment blackish with a prominent row of bristles at 

 the posterior margin, second and third segments brown, the remain- 

 ing segments blackish with more or less brown at the anterior and 

 posterior margins, and covered with a grayish pubescence. Venter 

 brownish. Legs reddish, thickly covered with minute yellow hairs, 

 and dark brown spine-like bristles on the tarsi; claws black, bristles 

 on the tibiae yellow; wings of a uniform dark brown, veins black. 

 Two specimens, St. Augustine. 



Asilus auratus n. sp. 



Length $ 12 9 15 mm. Face and front light yellow pollinose; 

 facial protuberance with long whitish bristles; occiput light yellow 

 pollinose, and long white pile, which in some specimens is brownish 

 near the vertex; a row of black hairs extends along the frontal 

 orbits; ocelli black; proboscis black; antenna? reddish, first and 

 second joint with numerous black hairs, third joint and arista brown. 

 Thorax golden yellow pollinose, with a wide dorsal stripe that is 

 attenuated and obsolete (in certain lights) towards the scutellum, 

 some specimens show an obsolete linear interval of a lighter color, 

 thus dividing the stripe into two parts; the entire dorsum with short 

 black hairs; a few long, black and yellow bristles are arranged as 

 follows: four on the side just before the suture, the others in a lateral 

 and two subdorsal rows on the posterior half of the thorax, scutellum 

 yellow pollinose, with black hairs, and two yellow bristles; pleurae, 

 and coxa?, yellowish white pollinose. Abdomen yellow pollinose; 

 covered (except at the base of the first, and a wide basal and posterior 

 margin on the second, third and fourth segments) with black hairs; the 

 smooth basal bands on the second, third and fourth, have two trans- 

 verse rows of punctulate spots, one of the rows is often covered on 

 the third and fourth by the preceding segment; near the posterior 

 margins of the segments is a row of black and yellow bristles; 

 hypopygium red, shining, with whitish hairs, ovipositor black, 

 shining. Legs red; with close-lying whitish hairs and prominent 

 black and yellow bristles, tip of the femora with a spot on each 

 side, tip of the posterior tibiae, and tip of all the tarsal joints black- 

 ish; claws black, pulvilli red. The base, and discal portion of the 

 wing clear hyaline, leaving the tip and a wide posterior border of a 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



brownish tint. Seven specimens, Palatka, May 19, St. Augustine, 

 May 21, 1894. 

 Calobata varipes n. sp. 



Length 14 mm., $ . Head bluish-black, shining, opaque with 

 black pile above and below the antennae; vertex, in a depression 

 surrounding the ocelli with dense yellowish pubescence, vertex with 

 eight prominent bristles; occiput with black pile; antennae red, setae 

 black, first and second joints covered with short black hairs; proboscis 

 black. Thorax black, posterior angles brownish, d< »rsum with a grayish 

 pubescence, leaving two narrow black stripes which become obsolete 

 beyond the sutures, pleurae black, shining, metapleurse and metano- 

 tum covered, with whitish pubescence. Scutellum blackish above, 

 brown beneath. Abdomen black, shining. Coxae and femora red; 

 tip, and a baud a little beyond the middle of the posterior and middle 

 femora and the apical third of the anterior femora black, anterior 

 and posterior tibiae black, middle tibiae brown, first and second joints 

 of the anterior and posterior tarsi white, the remainder of the an- 

 terior and posterior tarsi, and the entire middle tarsi black; the legs 

 are covered throughout with short, black hairs, with some bristles on 

 the tibiae. Wings tinged with brown, which is more conspicuous 

 along the anterior margin, tip and cross veins. 



One specimen, Jacksonville, May 22, 1894. 

 Heterochroa ornata n. sp. 



Length 1\ mm., 9 . Face, front and occiput yellow, with yellow 

 pubescence; a row of black bristles extends from the base of the 

 antenme along the frontal and vertical orbits and around the occiput, 

 four bristles are arranged in a quadrangle around the ocelli; ocelli 

 whitish; antenme yellow, aristae and a prominent row of hairs on the 

 second joint black, aristae with minute hairs. Thorax and scutellum 

 yellow, with yellow pubescence, and black hairs and bristles. Ab- 

 domen brownish black, irregularly mottled with whitish pubescence 

 with a few scattering black hairs, which gives the white portions a 

 punctated appearance. Legs yellow, with black hairs and bristles. 

 The basal portion of the wing, including the costal cell, a small angle 

 of the marginal, submarginal, and half of the basal cell, anal angle, 

 and alar appendage, hyaline; the remainder of the wing clouded 

 with black, and having the following whitish hyaline markings: mar- 

 ginal cell with three spots, the middle one quadrate, and three or 

 four times the size of the others; submarginal cell with three spots, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



two below the large quadrate spot of the marginal cell, and one at 

 the end of the second longitudinal vein; first posterior cell with four, 

 one at the posterior cross vein, two smaller ones midway between the 

 first and the large one at the tips of the wing, the latter occupying 

 the entire width of the cell; second posterior cell with four occupy- 

 ing the central portion, the larger ones coalescent ; third posterior 

 cell with three spots, the large middle one triangular; discal cell 

 with two, the outer one three or four times the size of the others. 

 One specimen, Drayton Island, May 9, 1894. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW GENERA AND SPECIES. 

 BY D. W. COQUILLETT. 



Platyura elegans n. sp., $ 9 . 



Head black, lower part of front and the face yellow; antennse 

 black, the two basal joints yellow; proboscis yellow, its apex and 

 the palpi black. Dorsum of thorax opaque brownish black, the 

 sides, pleura and scutellum, yellow; metanotum brown, this color 

 extending upon the pleura to the middle coxre. Abdomen shining 

 brownish- black, the first segment, both ends of the second, apices of 

 the third and fourth, and the whole of the fifth, yellow; first five 

 ventral segments also yellow. Halteres and legs yellow, tibia? desti- 

 tute of bristles. Wings grayish hyaline, marked with two irregular 

 brown crossbands and with two brown spots; the first band begins at 

 the first vein before its tip, is interrupted between the branches of 

 the fifth vein, and stops before reaching the hind margin of the wing, 

 its posterior portion scarcely half as wide as the costal part; the second 

 band starts from the tip of the third vein and stops at the anterior 

 branch of the fifth a short distance before its tip, where the band is 

 scarcely one- fifth as wide as at the costa; midway between these two 

 bands is a large brown spot reaching from the anterior branch of 

 the fifth vein to the hind margin of the wing at the tip of the pos- 

 terior branch ; a brown cloud on anterior branch of third vein, this 

 branch terminating at twice its length beyond the tip of the first 

 vein. Length 3.5 mm. 



Georgetown, Florida, May 10, 1894 (C. W. Johnson); North 

 Carolina. A single specimen of each sex. 



The specimen from the latter locality is from Dr. Riley's collec- 

 tion, now in the National Museum. 

 22 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Neoglaphyroptera cincta n. sp., $ . 



Head, including the mouth parts, yellow, each ocellus situated on 

 a black spot, the median very small ; antennae yellow on the six 

 basal joints, the remainder blackish. Thorax, pleura and scutellum 

 yellow, a large black vitta at base of each wing extending across 

 the metanotum. Abdomen shining black, base of each segment 

 and the whole of the sixth and seventh, yellow. Legs yellow, 

 bristles of front tibise minute, those of the others large. Wings 

 yellowish hyaline, unmarked ; third vein issuing from the first 

 slightly beyond the forking of the fourth. Length 4.5 mm. 



Tick Island, Florida, May 12, 1894. C. W. Johnson. A single 

 specimen. 



Ceratopogon albaria n. sp., 9. 



Head black, the face and mouth parts yellowish ; antennae brown, 

 the basal joints yellow. Thorax, pleura and scutellum black, densely 

 opaque white pollinose. Abdomen black, subshining. Legs yellow, 

 both ends of the femora and tibiae, apices of first three tarsal joints, 

 and the whole of the last two joints, brown ; last tarsal joint ciliate 

 on the under side with rather long setae, the claws subequal in 

 length, slightly over half as long as the last tarsal joint. Wings 

 whitish hyaline, vein sconcolorous excepting the small cross vein and 

 base of third vein, which are narrowly clouded with brown; sub- 

 marginal cell divided near its first fourth by a cross vein situated 

 nearly three times its length before the tip of the first vein; fourth 

 vein branching the length of the small cross vein before the latter, 

 at a point slightly beyond the branching of the fifth. Halteres yel- 

 low, the knobs each marked with a black spot. Length 3 mm. 



Drayton Island, Florida, May 9, 1894. C. W. Johnson. A 

 single specimen. 



Tanypus concinnus n. sp., 9- 



Light yellow, three vittae on the thorax reddish yellow, the middle 

 one bordered each side with black, the lateral ones changing into 

 black posteriorly; a dot at each front angle of the scutellum, middle 

 of metanotum, a fascia at base of each abdominal segment except 

 the first, apices of tibiae, of metatarsi, of the second joint of the 

 middle and hind tarsi, the whole of the remaining joints and the last 

 four of the front tarsi, black. Penultimate joint of hind tarsi ob- 

 cordate, as broad as long. Wings naked, whitish hyaline, veins 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 309 



pale yellowish, small cross vein clouded with brown ; first vein forked 

 before its apex, the fifth forking slightly beyond the cross vein. 

 Length 3 mm. 



Tick Island, Florida, (May 12, 1892 ; C. W. Johnson). A single 

 specimen in Mr. Johnson's collection. 



Masiphya aurigera u. sp. c? . 



Black, the second antenna! joint, base of the third, the palpi, and 

 fourth abdominal segment except its base, yellow. Front at vertex 

 hardly two-fifths as wide as either eye, vittanext the antennse nearly 

 as wide as either side of the front, the latter and the face golden 

 pollinose; frontal bristles descending to tip of second antennal joint, 

 four in each row curving backward; antenna? nearly two-thirds as 

 long as the face, the third joint slightly over twice as long as the 

 second; arista thickened on the basal fourth; vibrissa? at a point 

 twice the length of the second antennal joint above the oral margin, 

 ridges bristly on the lower fourth; proboscis robust, the portion 

 between the basal articulation and the large labella scarcely longer 

 than the latter. Thorax gray pollinose, marked with four black 

 vitta?; four postsutural and three mesopleural macrocha?ta?; scutellum 

 bearing six pairs of long marginal macrocha?ta?. Abdomen gray 

 pollinose, with brownish reflecting spots, genitalia only slightly pro- 

 truding; first and second segment bearing a marginal pair of macro- 

 chsetse, third with a marginal row, the fourth with scattered macro- 

 cha?ta? on the apical two-thirds. Hind tibia? not ciliate, destitute of 

 long hairs on the inner side, pulvilli as long as the last tarsal joint. 

 Wings hyaline, slightly tinged with gray basally, third vein bearing 

 four bristles at the base, the others bare; bend of fourth vein 

 destitute of an appendage. Length 11 mm. Florida. Mrs. A. T. 

 Slosson. A single specimen. 



TACHININJE. 

 PSEUDOCHiETA n. gen. 



Anterior pair of ocellar bristles wanting, two pairs of backwardly 

 curving orbital bristles in both sexes and an additional pair of 

 forwardly directed ones in the female; the upper pair of frontal 

 bristles is on a line with the backwardly curving orbitals and con- 

 siderably removed from the other frontals which are much smaller 

 and decussate, extending from the lowest ocellus to the arista; 

 antenna? as long as the face, the third joint in the male five 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



times, in the female three times as loug as the second; arista bare, 

 the penultimate joint not longer than broad; head at insertion of 

 vibrissa half as long as at base of .antennae, face in profile convex, 

 the sides bare, each at the narrowest part one-eighth as wide as the 

 median depression, ridges bristly on the lower four-fifths; vibrissa? 

 widely separated, inserted on the oral margin; cheeks one-seventh 

 as broad as the eye- height, the lower half covered with short bristly 

 hairs, the usual row of macrochaetae on the lower border; eyes micro- 

 scopically pubescent; proboscis robust, the portion beyond the basal 

 articulation not half as long as height of head, labella very large; 

 palpi clavate, well-developed. Abdomen oblong-oval, of four seg- 

 ments which are subequal in length. Hind tibia? outwardly ciliate 

 with short bristles intermixed with two or three longer ones. Third 

 vein bearing a few bristles at the base, the others bare; apical cell 

 open, ending at four-fifths of the distance betwwen the second vein 

 and the extreme wing-tip; bend of fourth vein obtuse, destitute of 

 an appendage; hind cross vein slightly nearer to the bend than to 

 the small cross vein, its posterior end nearer to the wing-margin 

 than to the small cross vein. Type, the following species: 



Pseudochaeta argentifrons n. sp. $ <? • 



Black, including the mouth parts. Front at vertex about as wide 

 as either eye, vitta next the antennae two-thirds as wide as either 

 side of the front, the latter and the face densely silvery pollinose, 

 antennal arista thickened on the basal third. Thorax gray polli- 

 nose; marked with four black vittae; four postsutural and two sterno- 

 pleural macrocbaetae; scutellum bearing three pairs of long marginal 

 and a pair of short apical macrocbaetae. Abdomen shining except 

 the grayish pollinose bases of the last three segments; first two 

 segments each with a marginal pair of macrochaetae, third with a 

 marginal row, the fourth with scattered macrochaetae except on the 

 basal fourth; genitalia not projecting. Pulvilli scarcely half as 

 long as the last tarsal joint. Wings hyaline, calypteres grayish 

 white. Length 5 mm. Charlotte Harbor, Florida (Mrs. A. T. 

 Slosson), and Los Angeles, California (D. W. Coquillett). Four 

 males and three females. 



Achsetoneura rubentis n. sp. 9 . 



Front at vertex three-fourths as wide as either eye, the vitta 

 blackish, next the antennae slightly narrower than either side of 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



front, the latter gray pollinose; frontal bristles descending to base of 

 third antennal joint, three in each row directed backward; two pairs 

 of orbitals; face in profile slightly convex, retreating below, the 

 sides bare; ridges bristly on lower half; antenna; four-fifths as long 

 as the face, black, the base of the third joint yellowish, this joint 

 two and one- half times as long as the second; arista thickened on the 

 basal fourth, its penultimate joint broader than long; proboscis 

 black, palpi yellow. Thorax black, gray pollinose and with four 

 black vitta?; three postsutural and three sternopleural macrocha?ta? ; 

 scutellum grayish black, bearing three long marginal pairs of 

 macrochsetse. Abdomen yellow, base of first segment and a dorsal 

 vitta extending to the third black, the third segment irregularly 

 tinged with blackish; first segment destitute of dorsal macrochsetse, 

 the second with a small discal and marginal pair, the third with a 

 discal pair and marginal row, fourth with a marginal row; venter 

 appearing as if longitudinally incised in the middle, the second and 

 third segments lobately produced, the lobes of the third segment 

 studded with short black spines on their terminal half. Legs black, 

 hind tibia? rather sparsely ciliate with short bristles, with a longer 

 one at the first fourth and one nearly twice as long at the middle. 

 Wings hyaline, third vein bearing four bristles at its base, the others 

 bare; apical cross vein straight, ending close to the third at last 

 fourth of distance from second to tip of wing; hind cross vein strongly 

 curved. Length 7 mm. Jacksonville, Florida. W. H. Ashmead. 

 A single specimen. 

 Acemyia dentata n. sp. 9- 



Black, the palpi (usually) and labella of proboscis yellow, face 

 and cheeks tinged with yellow. Front at vertex almost as wide as 

 either eye, the sides yellowish or gray pollinose, the vitta black, 

 next the antennae slightly narrower than either side of the front; 

 three pairs of forwardly directed orbital bristles; frontal bristles 

 descending nearly to middle of second antennal joint, three in each 

 row curving backward; sides of face bare, each at narrowest part 

 one-sixth as wide as the facial depression ; two or three bristles above 

 each vibrissa ; cheeks less than one-fifth as wide as the eye- height, 

 bare except on the lower half; antenna? two-thirds as long as the 

 face, the third joint nearly twice as long as the second, the apical 

 front angle produced in the form of a tooth; arista thickened on the 

 basal third. Thorax grayish pollinose, marked with four black 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



vitta?, three postsutural macrochpetre and two sternopleural ; scutel- 

 lum bearing three pairs of long marginal macrochreta?, the posterior 

 pair cruciate. Abdomen gray pollinose and with black reflecting 

 spots, first segment destitute of dorsal macrochseta?, the second with 

 a marginal pair, the third and fourth each with a marginal row. 

 Hind tibia unequally bristly, not ciliate. Wings hyaline, a single 

 bristle at the base of third vein, the others bare; apical crossvein 

 slightly concave, joining the third a short distance before its tip, the 

 bend destitute of a stump or wrinkle ; hind cross vein nearly straight. 

 Length 6.5 mm. Georgetown, Florida, May 10, 1894, and Mobile, 

 Alabama, October 22, 1894 (C. W. Johnson); also Los Angeles Co.. 

 California, in February and September (D. W. Coquillett). Four 

 specimens. 



Belvosia slossonae n. sp. 9 • 



Black, the frontal vitta, face, palpi and scutellum yellow. Front 

 at vertex one and one-half times as wide as either eye, frontal vitta 

 next the antenna? subequal in width to either side of the front, the 

 latter shining yellowish gray ; two pairs of orbital bristles; frontal 

 bristles descending almost to tip of second antennal joint, the upper- 

 most in each row curving backward, the next one directed backward 

 and inward, the two outside of these curving backward; anterior pair 

 of ocellar bristles wanting; antenna? four-fifths as long as the face, 

 the third joint slightly over twice as long as the second; arista 

 thickened its entire length, the penultimate joint slightly longer than 

 broad; sides of face bare, at the narrowest part one- third as wide as 

 the median depression; ridges bristly on the lower two- thirds, 

 several yellow bristly hairs outside of them on the lower half of the 

 ridges; cheeks one-third as wide as the eye-height, covered with 

 short yellowish bristles. Thorax grayish pollinose, and with four 

 black vitta?; four postsutural macrocha?ta?, and four sternopleural; 

 scutellum bearing four pairs of long marginal macroch?eta? and a 

 short apical pair. Abdomen on bases of last three segments yellow- 

 ish gray pollinose, most extended on the third and fourth; first and 

 second segments each bearing a marginal pair of macrocha?ta\ the 

 third and fourth each with a marginal row. Hind tibia? rather 

 sparsely ciliate with somewhat long bristles. Wings grayish brown, 

 tinged with yellow along the veins of the basal and costal portions; 

 third vein bearing four bristles at its base, the others bare. Length 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



11 mm. Charlotte Harbor, Florida. Mrs. A. T. Slosson, to whom 

 this fine species is respectfully dedicated. A single specimen. 



Hypostena maculosa n. sp. 9 • 



Black, the front angles of the second and third abdominal 

 segments broadly yellow. Front at vertex two-thirds as wide as 

 either eye, vitta brownish, next the antennae one and one-fourth 

 times as wide as either side of the front, the latter light gray polli- 

 Qose; two pairs of orbital bristles; frontal bristles descending to base 

 of third antennal joint; antenna? seven-eighths as long as the face, 

 the third joint nearly tbree times as long as the second, three times 

 as long as wide; arista thickened on the basal third; sides of face 

 bare, each at the narrowest part one-tenth as wide as the median 

 depression, face in profile convex; ridges bare; cheeks one-seventh 

 as wide as the eye-height. Thorax bearing only three postsutural 

 macrocha?ta?, two sternopleural ; scutellum bearing two pairs of long 

 marginal macrocha?ta?. Abdomen bearing a marginal pair of 

 macrochreta? on each of the first two segments and a marginal row 

 on the third and fourth. Hind tibia? not ciliate. Wings hyaline, 

 third vein bearing three bristles at the base, the others bare, small 

 cross vein slightly before the middle of the discal cell, hind cross vein 

 midway between the latter and the bend which is rounded, apical 

 cross vein slightly arcuate, ending close to the third at a point less 

 than the length of the small cross vein before the tip of the wing. 

 Length 3.5 mm. St. Augustine, Florida. C. W. Johnson. A 

 single specimen. 



Myiobia depile n. sp. $ . 



Front at vertex less than half as wide as either eye, the vitta 

 brownish black, next the antenna? two-thirds as wide as either side of 

 the front, the latter golden pollinose; no orbital bristles; frontal 

 bristles descending to base of second antennal joint, only one in each 

 row directed backward; antenna? four-fifths as long as the face, 

 yellow, the third joint, except at base, black, two and one-half times 

 as long as the second; arista short pilose, thickened on its basal fifth; 

 sides of face and the ridges bare; cheeks slightly over one-fourth as 

 wide as the eye-height, bare except on lower half; palpi yellow; 

 clavate, one-fourth longer than the antenna?; proboscis yellow, in the 

 middle brown, slender, rigid, the portion beyond the basal articula- 

 tion nearly as long as height of head, labella well developed. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Thorax black, yellowish pollinose, not distinctly black vittae; three 

 postsntural macrochaetae and three sternoplenral ; scutellum yellow, 

 bearing two long marginal pairs of macroehaetae. Abdomen shining 

 yellow, a black spot below the hind angles of the third and fourth 

 segments; a dorsal vitta and the apex tinged with reddish; first 

 segment destitute of dorsal macroehaetae, the second with a marginal 

 pair, third and fourth each with a marginal row. Legs yellow, 

 tarsi black, pulvilli as long as the last tarsal joint. Wings yellowish 

 hyaline, third vein bearing about five bristles at the base, the others 

 bare; hind cross vein at two- thirds the distance from the small cross- 

 vein to the bend, which is rounded; costal spine minute. 



9 same as the $ with these exceptions: Front three-fourths as 

 wide as either eye, vitta scarcely half as wide as either side of the 

 front, two pairs of orbital bristles, three frontal bristles in each row 

 directed backward, antennae three-fourths as long as the face, the third 

 joint twice as long as the second, palpi nearly one and one- half times 

 as long as the antennae, pulvilli scarcely half as long as the last 

 tarsal joint. 



Length 6.5 mm. Jacksonville (W. H. Ashmead), and Juniper 

 Creek (C. W. Johnson), Florida; and Ithaca, N. Y. (F. H. Chit- 

 tenden). One male and three females. One of the latter has a 

 dorsal black spot at the apex of the second and third abdominal 

 segments. 

 Prosenoides flavipes u. sp. 9 • 



Black, the antennae except at apex, palpi, femora and tibiae 

 yellow. Front at vertex nearly as broad as either eye, vitta dark 

 brown, next the antennae yellowish-gray, at this point three-fourths 

 as wide as either side of the front, the latter light gray pollinose; 

 two pairs of orbital bristles; frontal bristles descending to insertion 

 of antennae, two in each row curving backward; antennae three- 

 fourths as long as the face, third joint three times as long as the 

 second; sides of face and the ridges bare, keel in middle of the 

 depression one-half higher than width of third autenual joint; 

 cheeks scarcely one-fifth as broad as the eye-height, bare except 

 on lower edge; proboscis slender, rigid, beyond the basal 

 articulation slightly longer than the head and thorax united, 

 labella scarcely thicker than the proboscis, palpi clavate, 

 slightly shorter than the antennae. Thorax marked with 

 three broad, brownish black vittae; three postsutnral macroehaetae, 




1895.] ■ NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



and three sternopleural ; scutellum hearing two pairs of long marginal 

 macrochsetse and a short cruciate apical pair. Abdomen wholly 

 gray pollinose, with light and olive gray reflections; first segment 

 destitute of dorsal macrochsetse, second with a marginal pair, the 

 third and fourth each with a marginal row. Wings hyaline, third 

 vein with a few bristles at base, the others bare; costal spine minute, 

 bend of fourth vein with a rounded angle, apical cross vein nearly 

 straight, apical cell open. Pulvilli less than half as long as the last 

 tarsal joint. 



$ same as the 9 with the following exceptions: Entire antennae, 

 sides of first two abdominal segments and front angles of the third, 

 yellow. Front one-third as broad as either eye, no orbital bristles, 

 only one frontal bristle in each row curving backward, antenna? 

 three-fifths as long as the face, the third joint two and one-half times 

 as long as the second. 



Length 6 to 7.5 mm. Lake Worth and Charlotte Harbor, 

 Florida, Mrs. A. T. Slosson. One male and three females. 

 Gymnodexia zonata n. §p. 9 . 



Black, the antenna?, anterior portion of the cheeks, palpi, labella, 

 knees and abdomen, yellowish, the latter on sides of first three 

 segments and a dorsal vitta on the same, black. Front at vertex 

 four-fifths as wide as either eye, vitta next the antenna? three-fourths 

 as wide as either side of the front, the latter and the face whitish 

 pollinose; two pairs of orbital bristles; frontal bristles descending 

 almost to insertion of antenna?, three in each row curving backward; 

 sides of face bare; vibrissa? inserted almost on- the oral margin, two 

 or three short bristles above each; antenna? six-sevenths as long as 

 the face, the third joint four times as long as the second, arista long- 

 plumose; cheeks nearly as broad as the eye-height; proboscis robust, 

 the portion beyond the basal articulation slightly over half as long 

 as height of head. Thorax gray pollinose and marked with four 

 black vitta?; three postsutural and two sternopleural macrocha?ta?; 

 scutellum bearing three long marginal pairs. Abdomen shining 

 except the bases of the last three segments which are gray pollinose, 

 most extended on the second, where it reaches slightly beyond the 

 middle: first segment destitute of dorsal macrocha?ta?, second with a 

 marginal pair, third with a marginal row, the fourth with scattered 

 macrocrneta?. Wings hyaline, slightly smoky along the costa and 

 bordering the veins; third vein bearing four bristles at the base, the 




816 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF • [1895. 



others bare; costal spine minute; calypteres white. Length 9.5 mm. 

 Jacksonville, Florida, May 22, 1894, C. W. Johnson. A single 

 specimen. 



SARCOPHAG1DJE. 



JOHNSONIA n. gen. 



First, third and fifth veins bristly, hind cross vein perpendicular^ 

 at two-fifths the distance from the small cross vein to the bend, the 

 latter rectangular and bearing a long appendage, apical cell short 

 petiolate. Antennae nearly as long as the face, arista long plumose 

 on the basal three-fifths, the remainder naked ; sides of face bearing 

 short bristly hairs, at narrowest part nearly half as wide as the 

 median depression, the latter not carinate ; ridges bare, straight, 

 diverging below, vibrissa strong, widely separated, on the oral mar- 

 gin ; cheeks one-sixth as broad as the eye- height, eyes bare ; proboscis 

 much shorter than height of head, labella large, palpi well-developed. 

 Type, the following species : 



Johnsonia elegans n. sp. 9 



Head black, gray pollinose ; front at vertex slightly wider than 

 either eye ; vitta brownish black, next the antenna? half as wide as 

 either side of the front ; only one pair of orbital bristles ; frontal 

 bristles descending to insertion of antenna?, two in each row curving 

 backward ; antenna? dark brown, more than the basal half of the 

 third joint yellow, this joint twice as long as the second : longest 

 hairs of arista over twice as long as its greatest diameter ; proboscis 

 brown, the labella and palpi yellow. Thorax black, gray pollinose, 

 marked with two broad, brownish black vitta?; three postsutural 

 and three sternopleural macrochfeta?; scutellum grayish-black, bearing 

 two pairs of long marginal macrocha?ta?. Abdomen shining yellow- 

 ish, the first three segments tinged in the middle with brown and 

 lightly whitish pollinose ; first segment destitute of dorsal macrocha?ta?, 

 the second with a marginal pair, the third and fourth each with a 

 marginal row ; genitalia yellow, withdrawn into the fourth abdo- 

 minal segment. Legs, including the coxa?, yellow, the tarsi black ; 

 pulvilli scarcely half as long as the last tarsal joint, the claws only 

 slightly longer than the pulvilli. Wings grayish hyaline ; first vein 

 bristly to beyond the branching of the second and third, the latter 

 bristly to the small cross vein, fifth vein bristly to beyond base of 

 discal cell ; costal spine nearly as long as the small cross vein. 




1895.] NATCH AL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



Length 6 mm. St. Augustine, Florida. C. W. Johnson, after 

 whom it gives me pleasure to name this interesting genus. Described 

 from a single specimen. 



HELICOBIA n. gen. 



First and third veins bristly, the others hare, apical cell open, end- 

 ing at three-fifths the distance from second vein to the wing-tip ; bend 

 of fourth vein rectangular and bearing a long appendage; hind cross- 

 vein much less oblique than the apical, terminating at last third of 

 distance between the small and the bend, its posterior end much 

 nearer the wing-margin than to the small cross vein. Head at the 

 vibrissa? nearly as long as at insertion of antenna', its lower margin 

 convex ; frontal bristles descending to middle of second autenual 

 joint.; sides of face each bearing a row of short maerochsetse ; antenna? 

 three-fourths as long as the face, the third joint twice as long as the 

 second ; arista long plumose on the basal three-fifths, the remainder 

 bare; vibrissa? inserted slightly above the oral margin, a few short 

 bristles above each ; cheeks one- third as broad as the eye- height, the 

 eyes bare. Abdomen' oval, consisting of four segments, densely gray 

 pollinose. Type: Sarcophaya helicis Townsend (Psyche, February, 

 1892, pages 2.20, 221). Charlotte Harbor, Florida (Mrs. A. T. 

 Slossou). Mississippi (H. E. Weed). Illinois (Dr. W. A. Nason). 

 District of Columbia and Los Angeles, Cal. (D. W. Coquillett). 

 Ohio (H. A. Surface). 



Drosophila maculosa n. sp. $ . 



Head, including the antenna? and mouth parts, yellow, an ocellar 

 dot and transverse pair of spots above the centre of the occiput, black. 

 Thorax, pleura and scutellum opaque yellow, unmarked. Abdomen 

 shining blackish-brown, the first segment, front corners of the second, 

 and a spot near each front corner of the third and fourth, yellow. 

 Legs, including the tarsi, yellowish white. Wings hyaline, marked 

 with four brown spots, one at tips of the first and second veins and 

 one on the small and hind cross veins, that on the small cross vein less 

 than one-fourth as large as either of the others; the costal vein only 

 reaches the apex of the third. Length 3 mm. Charlotte Harbor 

 (Mrs. A. T. SlossonJ, and Archer, Florida. Two specimens ; the 

 one from the latter locality is contained in the National Museum 

 collection. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895 



Drosophila vittata n. sp. $ . 



Head yellowish white, frontal triangle dark yellow, an ocellar dot 

 and spot in center of occiput, black; antennae and proboscis pale 

 yellow, the palpi black. Thorax and scutellum opaque light grayish 

 yellow, marked with three dark yellow vittae ; pleura brown on 

 nearly the upper half, the remainder yellow; metanotum yellow, a 

 median vitta and the sides brown. Abdomen shining, yellow, gradu- 

 ally passing into dark brown at the tip; a dorsal yellow vitta; hind 

 margin of each segment whitish. Legs, including the coxte and 

 tarsi, yellow. Wings hyaline; the costal vein reaches the apex of 

 the fourth, first vein ending at first fourth of length of wing, small 

 cross vein before the first third of distance from the branching of the 

 second and third veins to the hind cross vein. Length 1.5 mm. 

 Charlotte Harbor, Florida. Mrs. A. T. Slosson. A single 

 specimen. 



Chlorops abdominalis n. sp. $ . 



Head yellow, face and cheeks usually a lighter yellow, an ocellar 

 dot and two large spots on upper part of the occiput, black; frontal 

 triangle at vertex almost in contact with each eye, the sides converg- 

 ing to lower end of front, indications of a longitudinal median sulcus; 

 antenme reddish yellow, the third joint orbicular, black, except at 

 its base; arista black; clypeus unmarked; proboscis yellow, palpi 

 black. Thorax subshining black, unmarked ; pleura reddish yellow, 

 marked with four black spots; scutellum black, convex; metanotum 

 black medially, the sides broadly reddish yellow. Abdomen shining 

 reddish yellow, indications of a black dot near each front corner of 

 the second segment. Legs, including the coxte and tarsi, reddish 

 yellow. Halteres bright yellow, the peduncles dusky. Wings 

 hyaline, hind cross vein nearly twice its length beyond the small 

 cross vein. Length 2.4 to 3 mm. Charlotte Harbor, Florida. 

 Mrs. A. T. Slosson. Two specimens. 



Agromyza terminalis n. sp. $ . 



Head black, the broad frontal vitta opaque velvety, a silvery 

 white dot above the antennae, the latter and the palpi black, pro- 

 boscis yellow. Thorax subshining black, no dorsal macrochsetse in 

 front of the suture; a narrow yellow vitta in front of and below each 

 wing; pleura and scutellum black. Abdomen black, the fifth and 

 following segments, and sometimes the sides and hind margin of the 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



fourth, grayish yellow. Legs black, the knees narrowly yellow. 

 Halteres light yellow. Wings hyaline, third and fourth veins slightly 

 diverging toward their apices. Length 2.4 mm. Welaka, Florida, 

 May 9, 1894; and Delaware County, Pa., July 23, 1893. C. W. 

 Johnson. Two specimens. 



LIST OF SPECIES. 

 BY C. W. JOHNSON. 



CECIDOMYID^E. 



Diplosis sp. On Oak, Georgiana, Jan. 24. 

 Diplosis sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



MYCETOPHILIDJE. 



Platyura ELEGANS-Coq. Georgetown, May 9. 

 Neoglaphyroptera cincta Coq. Tick Island, May 12. 

 Sciara sp. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



BIBXONTD.&3. 



Bibio rufithorax Wied. St. Augustine. The thorax of the $ 

 is black. 



Bibio thoracica Say. East Florida (Say). 



Dilophus orbatus Say. St. Augustine; Juniper Co., May 15; 

 Inverness, Mar. 27 (Robertson); Charlotte Harbor — exceed- 

 ingly common from February to the end of March (Mrs. Slos- 

 son). 



Plecta ruficollis Fabr. St. Augustine ; Charlotte Harbor, Mar. 

 (Mrs. Slosson) ; Lake Harney (Messrs. Hubbard and Schwarz). 



Plecta sp. St. Augustine ; Drayton Island, May 9. 



CULICIDiE. 



Culex t.eniorhynchus Wied. St. Augustine; Tick Island, Vo- 

 lusia Co., May 12; Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Culex ciliatus, Fabr. St. Augustine. 



Culex fasciatus, Fabr. Charlotte Harbor, Mar. (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Anopheles crucians Wied. Troublesome, Tick Island, May 12. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895 



C'HIRONOMIDJE. 



Chironomus niveipennis, Fabr. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slos- 



SOll). 



Chironomus riparius Macq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Chironomus viridis Macq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Chironomus sp. Georgiana (Whitfeld). U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 Tanypus thoracicus Loew. Tick Island, May 12. 

 Tanypus scapularis Loew. Tick Island, May 12. 

 Tanypus concinnus Coq. Tick Island, May 12. 

 Ceratopogon argentatus Loew. Welaka, May 9. 

 Ceratopogon albiaria Coq. Drayton Island, May 9. 



TIPULIDJE. 



Dicranomyia floridana O. S. Spring of 1858 (Osten Sacken). 



Dicranomyia distans O. S. March, 1858 (Osten Sacken). 



Rhipidia domestica 0. S. Drayton Island, May 10; Ormond 

 (Mrs. Slosson). 



Erioptera yespertina O. S. 



Gnophomyia luotuosa O. S. March (Osten Sacken) ; Jackson- 

 ville, May 22. 



Limnophila luteipennis O. S. March (Osten Sacken). 



Limnophila macrocera Say. March (Osten Sacken). 



Limnophila sp. (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Bittacomorpha clavipes Fabr. March (Osten Sacken). 



Tipula costalis Say. Charlotte Harbor, January (Mrs. Slosson). 



Tipula filipes Walk. Jacksonville, May 22; Tick Island, May 

 12; Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Pachyrrhina ferruginea Fabr. St. Augustine, March; Char- 

 lotte Harbor ( Mrs. Slosson). 



Pachyrrhina nobilis Loew. Jacksonville, May 22. 



Pachyrrhina suturalis Loew. 



XYLOPHAGID.S]. 

 Rhachicerus fulvicollis Haliday. Tick Island, May 12. 



STRATIOMYIDJ3. 



Sargus decorus Say. St. Augustine, March 15- 



Sargus tricolor Loew. St. Augustine; Tick Island, March 15. 



Sargus elegans Loew. 



Ptecticus sackenii Williston. (Pergande.) 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Hermetia illucens Linne. St. Augustine; Fernandina, pupa, 

 March 23, imago issued May 23 (U. S. Nat. Mus.); Lake 

 Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 



Hermetia sexmaculata Macq. (Mus. Coinp. Zool.) 



Odontomyia cincta Oliv. St. Augustine, March 15. 



Odontomyia trivittata Say. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung) ; 

 Astor, May 11; Ormond, April (Mrs. Slosson). 



Odontomyia obscura Oliv. St. Augustine ; Charlotte Harbor 

 (Mrs. Slosson). 



Odontomyia flayicornis Oliv. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Stratiomyia senaria Loew. St. Augustine. 



Nemotelus acutirostris Loew. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung). 



Nemotelus carboxarius Loew. St. Augustine, March ; Char- 

 lotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Nemotelus immaculatus Johnsou. St. Augustine (F. H. Geuung). 



Nemotelus slossox.e Johnson. Charlotte Harbor, March (Mrs. 

 Slosson). 



TABANIDiE. 



Chrysops atropos O. S. St. Augustine; Crescent City (Hub- 

 bard); Eagle Lake (U. S. Nat, Mus. ) 



Chrysops callidus O. S. St. Augustine. 



Chrysops flavidus Wied. St. Augustine; Putnam Co., June 

 (U. S. Nat. Mus.); Georgiana (Whitfeld). 



Chrysops morosus 0. S. Common St. Augustine, March 15 ; 

 Georgiana (Whitfeld), July 17. 



Chrysops univittatus Macq. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Chrysops plangens Wied. (Osten Sacken.) 



Chrysops vittatus Wied. Palatka, May 19 ; Horse Landing, St. 

 John's River, May 17. 



Diachlorus ferrugatus, Fabr. St. Augustine ; Horse Landing, 

 St. John's River, May 17; Biscayne ; Enterprise, May 25 

 (Schwarz), U. S. Nat. Mus. 



Tabanus americanus Forster. St. Augustine; Astor, May 11; 

 Indian River (U. S. Nat. Mus.) ; Tick Island, May 13; Or- 

 mond, April (Mrs. Slosson). 



Tabanus atratus Fabr. St. Augustine ; Key West, February 7 ; 

 Ft. Capron, July 9. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Tabanus nigrovittatus Macq. St. Augustine. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Tabanus fuscopunctatus Macq. St. Augustine, March; Tick 



Island, May 12; Georgiana ; Sand Point, March 21. (U. S. 



Nat, Mus.) 

 Tabanus fronto, O. S. St. Augustine ; Charlotte Harbor, March 



(Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tabanus lineola Fabr. St. Augustine; Georgiana; Alachua Co. 



(U. S. Nat. Mus.) ; Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tabanus wiedemanni 0. S. St. Augustine ; Ormond (Mrs. Slos- 

 son); Enterprise, May 17 (Schwarz & Hubbard). 

 Tabanus megerlei Wied. St. Augustine ; Eagle Lake (U. S. 



Nat. Mus.) ; Palatka (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tabanus melanocerus Wied. St. Augustine. 

 Tabanus mexicanus Linn. St. Augustine ; Georgetown, May 16 ; 



Tick Island, May 13; Indian River (Whitfeld) ; Ormond 



(Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tabanus pumilus Macq. St. Augustine ; Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 



Enterprise, May 11-13 (Schwarz & Hubbard). 

 Tabanus rufus Pal.-Beauv. St. Augustine ; Tick Island May 12; 



Lake Harney, May 4 (Schwarz & Hubbard). 

 Tabanus tener O. S. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). Indian River 



(E. Palmer). 

 Tabanus trijunctus Walker. St. Augustine ; Ft. Capron, April 



24 ; Georgiana (Whitfeld). U. S. Nat, Mus. 

 Tabanus costalis Wied. (Mrs. Slosson). Lake Harney, May 5 



(Schwarz & Hubbard). 

 Tabanus molestus, Say. Tick Island, May 12 ; Juniper Creek, 



May 15. 

 Tabanus giganteus Degeer. (Williston). 

 Tabanus fur Will. (Williston). 



Tabanus proximus Walk. "Probably described from an unrecog- 

 nizable specimen of some well known species" (Osten Sacken). 

 Tabanus gracilis Wied. (Williston.) 

 Tabanus turbidus Wied. = ? T. fusconervosus Macq. Walker 



records the latter from Florida. 

 Tabanus pygm^eus Will. (Williston). 

 Tabanus coffeatus Macq. Waldo, June 2 (Messrs. Schwarz & 



Hubbard). 

 Tabanus recedens Walker. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Tabanus psammophilus 0. S. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). Ft. 

 Capron, April 10 (Messrs. Schwarz & Hubbard). 



Tabanus longus O. S. Georgiana (Whitfeld). U. S.Nat. Mus.; 

 Ft. Capron, March 26 (Messrs. Schwarz & Hubbard). 



Tabanus stygius, Say. Georgiana, July (Whitfeld). U. S. Nat. 

 Mus. 



Tabanus sparus Whitney. Inverness, March 18-24 (Robertson). 



Tabanus abdominalis Fabr. St. Augustine. 



Tabanus sp. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung). 



Tabanus sp. Georgiana (Whitfeld). U. S. Nat. Mus. 



Haematopota Americana 0. S. ? Crescent City, June (Hub- 

 bard). U. S. Nat. Mus. 



LEPTID.E5. 



Chrysopila velutina Loew. St. Augustine, March 15. 

 Chrysopila basalaris Say. St. Augustine, March 15 ; Char- 

 lotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Leptis albicornis Say. St. Augustine, March 15. 

 Leptis vertebrata Say. 



ASILIDJE. 



Leptogaster obscuripennis Johnson. St. Augustine. 



Ceraturgus cruciatus Say. Ormond, April (Mrs. Slosson). 



Dizonias tristis Walker. (D. bicincta Loew.) St. Augustine ; 

 Georgiana (Whitfeld) ; Enterprise, May 15. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Anisopogon senilis Bigot. (Morrison). Coquillett. 



Laphystia sexfasciata Say. St. Augustine. Common along 

 the seashore, June, July. 



Cyrtopogon chrysopogon Loew. (Morrison). Coquillett. 



Holcocephala abdominalis Say. Common St. Augustine; Juni- 

 per Creek, May 15. 



Holcocephala calva Loew. Seven specimens. Juniper Creek 

 May 15. 



Taracticus octopunctatus Say. (Morrison). Coquillett. 



Holopogon philadelphicus Schin. Ormond, April (Mrs. Slos- 

 son). 



Nicocles pictus Loew. St. Augustine. 



Atomosia puella Wied. Palntka, May 19. 



Deromyia ternatus Loew. St. Augustine. 

 23 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Deromyia bigotii Bellardi. St, Augustine; Ormond, June (Mrs 



Slosson). 

 Deromyia winthemi Wied. (D. rnisellus Loew. ) (U. S. Nat. 



Mus.) 

 Deromyia sp. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 Deromyia sp. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Dasyllis tergissa Say. Tampa, March (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Dasyllis posticata Say. Jacksonville, April (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Laphria saffrana Fabr. St. Augustine ; Sand Point, May 3. 



(U. S. Nat. Mus.) Charlotte Harbor, March, and Pensacola, 



April (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Lampria bicolor Wied. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Promachus fitchii O. S. St. Augustine. 

 Andrenosoma pyrrhacra Wied. (U.S.Nat. Mus.) Georgiana 



(Whitfeld) ; Ormond, June (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Mallophora bomboides. St. Augustine. 

 Mallophora nigra Will. St. Augustine. 

 Mallophora orcina Wied. St. Augustine, May 20 ; Palatka, 



May 19; Crescent City (Hubbard). 

 Mallophora laphroides Wied. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung). 

 Erax cinerascens Bell. St. Augustine. Lake Worth, on the 



white sand of the ocean beach (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Erax lateralis Macq. St. Augustine, May 20; Volusia, May 



11 and 14. 

 Erax bastardi Macq. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 Erax sp. St. Augustine. 



Proctacanthus heros Wied. St. Augustine; Georgiana (Whit- 

 feld) U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 Proctacanthus brevipennis Wied. Common St. Augustine ; Or- 

 mond, Charlotte Harbor and Pensacola (Mrs. Slosson); Cedar 



Keys, June 7 (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 Proctacanthus fulviventris Macq. Georgiana (U. S. Nat. 



Mus.) 

 Proctacanthus philadelphicus Macq. Georgiana (U. S. Nat. 



Mus.) 

 Asilus nov^e-scoti^e Macq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Asilus auratus Johnson. St. Augustine, May 21 ; Palatka, May 19. 

 Ommatius tibialis Say. St. Augustine, May 21 ; Georgetown, 



May 15; Georgiana, July 15 (Whitfeld.) 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



MIDAIDJE. 



Midas clavatus Drury. St. Augustine; Astor, May 11. 



Midas incisus Macq. St. Augustine ( $ ), Crescent City (Hub- 

 bard), U. S. Nat. Mus. 



Midas pachygaster Westwood. St. Augustine ( 9 ). This is 

 probably the 9 of M. incisus. 



Midas parvulus Westwood. Georgia (Westwood), Florida 

 (Walker). 



Midas sp. (U. S. Nat. Museum.) 



Midas sp. (U. S. Nat. Museum.) 



Midas sp. (U. S. Nat. Museum.) 



Midas sp. (U. S. Nat. Museum.) 



Dolichogaster BREVicoRNis Wied., var. iopterus (Wied. ) O. 

 S. "St. John's Bluff, Doubleday" (Walker.) 



K"EMESTRI3SriD^E. 

 Rhynchocephalus volaticus Williston. St. Augustine. 



HlRMONEURA FLAVIPES WillistOU. 



BOMBYLID^!. 



Exoprosopa eremita O. S. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung); Lake 



Worth (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Exoprosopa fascipennis Say. St. Augustine; Mt. Royal, May 



17; Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Exoprosopa fasciata Macq. St. Augustine; Ormond, June 



(Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Exoprosopa emarginata Macq. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Argyramceba analis Say. St. Augustine, May 21. 

 Argyramceba cephus Fabr. Two specimens, St. Augustine. 

 Argyramceba simson Fabr. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung.) 

 Argyramceba limatula Say. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson. ) 

 Argyramceba albofasciata Macq. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Argyramceba latilimbata Bigot. St. Augustine. 

 Argyramceba cedipus Fabr. (U. S. Nat. Mus.); (Mrs. Slosson); 



Orlando, March 20 (Robertson.) 

 Argyramceba argyropyga Wied. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 Anthrax (Dipalta) serpentina O. S; St. Augustine. 

 Anthrax (Hemipenthes) sinuosa Wied. St. Augustine. 

 Anthrax (Hemipenthes) morio Linne. Suwannee (Mrs. Slosson.) 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Anthrax alternata Say. (Mrs. Slosson. ) 



Anthrax lateralis Say. St. Augustine: Inverness, February 



11-March 31 (Robertson.) 

 Anthrax agrippina 0. S. Suwannee (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Anthrax faunus Fabr. St. Augustine. 

 Anthrax tegminipennis Say. Ormond ; Jacksonville, April 



(Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Anthrax dispar Coq. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung.) 

 Anthrax fulvohirta Wied. St. Augustine, May 20; Lake 



Wortb (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Anthrax celer Wied. St. Augustine. Syn., A. floridana Macq. 



(Coquillett.) 

 Anthrax lucifer Fabr. Suwannee (Mrs. Slosson); Key West 



(U. S. Nat. Mus.); Inverness, March 2-April 4 (Robertson.) 

 Anthrax mira Coq. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung.) 

 Anthrax ceyx Loew. (Syn.? A. demogorgon Walker.) 

 Oncodocera leucoprocta Wied. Suwannee (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Bombylius mexicanus Wied. (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Bombylius varius Fabr. (Morrison) Coquillett. 

 Bombylius atriceps Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson) ; 



Inverness, March 10-27 (Robertson.) 

 Bombylius lancifer O. S. (Morrison) Coquillett. 

 Bombylius fratellus Wied. (B. major Linne) (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 Bombylius pygmaeus Fabr. (Morrison) Coquillett. 

 Systozchus solitus Walk. St. Augustine, common, May 21; 



Suwannee, April; Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Toxophora amphitea Walker. St. Augustine; Ormond (Mrs. 



Slosson); Georgiana, July (Whitfeld); Inverness, March 5-26; 



Orlando, February 17 (Robertson.) 

 Toxophora fulva O. S. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 Toxophora virgata 0. S. Inverness, March 22 (Robertson.) 

 Phthiria punctipennis Walker. St. Augustine. 

 Phthiria sulphurea Loew. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung) ; 



Georgetown, May 16; Crescent City (Hubbard.) 

 Systropus macer Loew. Georgiana (Whitfeld.) 

 Geron sp. (U. S. Nat. Mus. ) 

 Lepidophora ^geriiformis Westw. Georgiana (Whitfeld) U. 



S. Nat. Mus. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



THEREVID.S3. 



Psilocephala HiEMORRHOiDALis Macq. Ormoud, April (Mrs. 

 Slosson.) 



Psilocephala festina Coq. St. Augustine, March 15; Drayton 

 Island, May 9; Ormond (Mrs. Slosson); Georgiana, July 

 (Whitfeld.) 



Psilocephala notata Wied. St. Augustine, March 14; Ormond, 

 April (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Psilocephala tergissa Say. St. Augustine, March 15 ; Or- 

 mond, April (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Psilocephala johnsoni Coq. St. Augustine, March 15; Or- 

 mond, April (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Psilocephala obscura Coq. Key West, February 5 (U. S. Nat. 

 Mus. ) 



Psilocephala pictipennis Wied. St. Augustine ; Drayton, Island 

 and Welaka, May 9 ; Crescent City (Hubbard) U. S. Nat. Mus. 



Psilocephala placida Coq. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Psilocephala marmorata Coq. St. Augustine. 



Psilocephala marcida Coq. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Thereva diversa Coq. (U. S. Mat. Mus.) 



SCENOPINIDJE. 



Scenopinus nubilipes Say. (Loew. ) 



EMPIDjE. 



Hybos triplex AValker. Charlotte Harbor, March (Mrs. Slos- 

 son.) 

 Euhybus subjectus Walker. St. Augustine; Charlotte Harbor 



(Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Syneohes simplex Walker. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Syneches pusillus Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Hilara leucoptera Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Hemerodromia superstitiosa Say. Drayton Island, May 9. 



DOLICHOPODID^.* 



Dolichopus longipennis Loew. (Aldrich.) 

 Dolichopus irrasus Walker. 



* The new and undetermined species of this family will be described later 

 by Prof. J. M. Aldrich. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Dolichopus laticornis Loew. Lake Worth, March (Mrs. Slos- 

 son.) 



Dolichopus sp. 9 St. Augustine (Aldrich, Kan. Univ. Quar- 

 terly, II, 8. ) 



Gymnopternus debilis Loew. (Aldrich.) 



Gymnopternus difficilis Loew. St. Augustine. 



Paraclinus sp. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson. ) 



Paraclinus sp, Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Pelastoneurus cognatus Loew. St. Augustine, March 14. 



Pelastoneurus abbreviatus Loew. St. Augustine, March. 



Pelastoneurus n. sp. St. Augustine, March 15. 



Pelastoneurus sp. St. Augustine; Ormond (Mrs. Slosson.)- 



Pelastoneurus sp. St. Augustine ; Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slos- 

 son.) 



Tachytrechus n. sp. (Aldrich. ) 



Diostracus sp. St. Augustine, May 21. 



Argyra n. sp. (Aldrich.) 



Diaphorus mundus Loew. Drayton Island, May 10; Charlotte 

 Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Diaphorus leucostomus Loew. Charlotte Harbor, February 

 (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Asyndetus n. sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Chrysotus costalis Loew. (Loew. ) 



Chrysotus sp. Juniper Creek, May 15. 



Chrysotus sp. Juniper Creek, May 15. 



Campsicnemus hirtipes Loew. St. Augustine. 



Plagioneurus univittatus Loew. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Medeterus nigripes Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson,) 



Medeterus veles Loew. (Loew. ) 



Saucropus dimidiatus Loew. (Loew. ) 



Saucropus superbiens Loew. (Loew.) 



Psilopus ciliatus Loew. St. Augustine ; Lake Worth and Char- 

 lotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Psilopus chrysoprasius Walker. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slos- 

 son.) 



Psilopus caudatulus Loew. Volusia, May 11, Palatka, May 15> 

 Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Psilopus comatus Loew. Volusia, May 11. 



Psilopus sipho Say. Volusia, May 11; Palatka, May 19. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



Psilopus n. sp. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Gnamptopsilopus variegatus Loew. St. Augustine; Welaka, 



May 9; Palatka, May 19. 

 Gnamptopsilopus psittacinus Loew. St. Augustine; Lake 



Worth, January (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Dactylomyia gracilipes Aldr. 



SYRPHIDJE. 



Microdon pachystylum Will. St. Augustine. 



Microdon fulgens Wied. St. Augustine, pupse found in decayed 



pine logs; Suwannee (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Microdon fuscipennis Macq. Georgiana, July 17 (Whitfeld). 

 Microdon limbus Will. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 Microdon scitulus Will. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 Omegasyrphus baliopterus Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. 



Slosson). 

 Omegasyrphus coarctatus Loew. Orlando, March 16 (Robert- 

 son ) . 

 Paragus tibialis Fallen. St. Augustine, May 21 ; Palatka, 



May 19. 

 Pipiza pulchella Will. St. Augustine, March 15; Lake Worth 



(Mrs. Slosson). 

 Psilota baccata Macq. Inverness, Feb. 8-12 (Robertson). 

 Chrysogaster nitida Wied. St. Augustine; Tick Island, May 



12; Orlando, May 16; Inverness, Feb. 14 (Robertson). 

 Mesogramma politum Say. St. Augustine. 

 Mesogramma parvula Loew. St. Augustine, May 20. 

 Mesogramma marginatum Say. St. Augustine, May 2; Orlando, 



Feb. 21; Inverness, March 9 (Robertson). 

 Mesogramma boscii Macq. St. Augustine; Charlotte Harbor, Feb. 



(Mrs. Slosson); Orlando, March 15; Inverness, Feb. 29 



(Robertson). 

 Mesogramma planiventris Loew. St. Augustine, May 20. 

 Allograpta obliqua Say. Inverness, Feb. 12, March 12 



(Robertson). 

 Xanthogramma emarginata Say. 

 Syrphus americanus Wied. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson); 



Orlando, Feb. 21; Inverness, Feb. 12 (Robertson). 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Baccha clavata Fabr. St. Augustine, May 21; Lake Worth 



(Mrs. Slosson); Crescent City (Hubbard); Orlando, Feb. 17 



(Robertson). 

 Baccha notata Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Baccha tarchetius Walker. Orlando, March 16; Inverness, 



March 26 (Robertson). 

 Baccha lugens Loew. Crescent City (Hubbard). U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 Ocyptamus fuscipennis Say. St. Augustine, March 15, May 20; 



Palatka and Crescent City (U. S. Nat: Mus.). 

 Volucella esurians Fabr. St. Augustine ; Georgiana (Whit- 



feld); Lake Worth and Charlotte Harbor, Feb. -Apr. (Mrs. 



Slosson); Key West, Feb. 7 (U. S. Nat. Mus.). 

 Volucella pallens Wied. ( V. sexpitnctata Lw.) St. Augustine, 



March 15; Georgiana, July (Whitfeld); Lake Worth (U. S. 



Nat. Mus.); Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson); Inverness, 



February 12 (Robertson). 

 Volucella pusilla Macq. Common, St. Augustine, March 15, 



May 21; Georgiana, July (Whitfeld). 

 Volucella fasciata Macq. (Mrs. Slosson), Inverness, February 



3, March 24 (Robertson). 

 Volucella eugenia Will. (Williston.) 

 Volucella vesiculosa Fabr. (Williston). Inverness, March 



19 (Robertson). 

 Volucella obesa Fabr. ( Osten Sacken. ) 

 Eristalis dimidiatus Wied. St. Augustine. 

 Eristalis transversus Wied. St. Augustine, March 15; 



Inverness, March 14 (Robertson. 

 Eristalis vinetorum Fabr. St. Augustine; Lake Worth (Mrs. 



Slosson). 

 Eristalis albifrons Wied. (E. albiceps Macq. ) St. Augustine. 



(F. H. Genung); Orlando, February 21 (Robertson); Lake 



Worth and Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson); Georgiana 



(Whitfeld). 

 Meromacrus crucigerus Wied. St. Augustine; Juniper Creek, 



May 15; Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Mallota cimbiciformis Fall. Inverness, February 12 (Robert- 

 son). 

 Helophilus similis Macq. St. Augustine; Inverness, February 



12 (Robertson). 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



Helophilus divisus Loew. Orlando, February 22 (Robertson). 

 Tropidia albistylum Macq. Lake Worth and Charlotte Harbor 



(Mrs. Slossou); Inverness, February 5 (Robertson). 

 Xylota ejuncida Say. St. Augustine; Charlotte Harbor, March 



(Mrs. Slosson). 

 Xylota pigra Fabr. (Mrs. Slosson); Inverness, February 8, 



March 25 (Robertson). 

 Spilomyia hamifera Loew. St. Augustine; Inverness, March 5 



(Robertson). 

 Milesia ornata Fabr. St. Augustine; Jacksonville, May 22; 



Juniper Creek, May 15; Inverness, March 12, April 5 



(Robertson); Ormond (Mrs. Slosson); Georgiana (Whitfeld). 

 Ceria abbreviata Loew. 

 Ceria signifera Loew. Inverness, February 12, 14 (Robertson). 



CONOPIDjE. 



Conops bulbirostris Loew. St. Augustine. 



Conors brachyrhynchus Macq. (C. obscuripennis Will.) St. 



Augustine. 

 Physocephala exctsus Wied. St. Augustine; Crescent City, July 



2 (Hubbard); Inverness, March 18 (Robertson); Charlotte 



Harbor and Pensacola, March and April (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Physocephala castanoptera Loew. St. Augustine. 

 Physocephala sagittaria Say. (U. S. Nat. Mus. ); Inverness, 



February 8 (Robertson). 

 Physocephala tibialis Say. (Morrison ) Coquillett. 

 Zodion fulvifrons Say. Lake Worth and Ormond, March (Mrs. 



Slosson ). 

 Zodion nanellum Loew. Inverness, February 9 (Robertson). 

 Dalmania vitiosa Coq. Inverness, March 25 (Robertson). 



PIPUNCULIDjE. 

 Prothechus lateralis Walk. St. Augustine. 



OESTRID^. 



Cuterebra buccata Fabr. St. Augustine. 

 Cuterebra cuniculi Clark? St. Augustine. 



TACHINID^J. 

 Trichopoda ciliata Fabr. (T. pennipes Fabr. 2 ) St. Augustine; 

 Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson i. 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Trichopoda Formosa Wied. St. Augustine. 



Trichopoda lanipes Fabr. St. Augustine. 



Trichopoda pyrrhogaster Wied. Georgiana, July (Whitfeld). 



Tkichopoda histrio Walker. (T. trifasciata Loew. ) Inverness, 

 March 18 (Robertson). 



Xanthomelana atripennis Say. St. Augustiue; Inverness, 

 February 11 (Robertson). 



Ooyptera euchenor Walker. Inverness, March 18 (Robertson). 



Jurinia smaragdina Macq. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson) ; Inver- 

 ness, February 8, March 22 (Robertson). 



Jurinia flavifrons Jaennick. (Mrs. Slosson). 



Jurinia hystrix Fabr. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 



Archytas boscii Desv. St. Augustine. 



Archytas aterrima Desv. St. Augustine. 



Belvosia bifasciata Fabr. St. Augustine. 



Belvosia slosson^e Coq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Thysanomyia inermis Bigot. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Gonia sp. Inverness, March 9-29 (Robertson). 



Miltogramma cinerascens Town. ? Inverness, March 20 

 (Robertson). 



Miltogramma decisa Town. Inverness, March 10-16 (Robert- 

 son). 



Miltogramma argentifrons Town. O.rlando, March 16; Inver- 

 ness, March 18 (Robertson). 



Miltogramma trilineata v. d. Wulp. Inverness, February 16, 

 March 10 (Robertson). 



Masicera protoparcis Town. ? Inverness, March 20 (Robertson). 



Masicera sodalis v. d. Wulp. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 



Masicera demylus Walk. (Mrs. Slosson). 



Gymnoprosopa polita Town. Inverness, March 1-22 (Robert- 

 son ,). 



Gymnoprosopa argentifrons Town. Inverness, March 1-22 

 (Robertson). 



Brachycoma sp. Inverness, February 12, March 24 (Robertson). 



Phorocera edwardsii Will. Inverness, March 13 (Robertson). 



Phorocera sp. Inverness, March 24 (Robertson). 



Plagiprospherysa floridensis Town. Inverness, February 12, 

 March 21 (Robertson). 



Exorista sp. Orlando, March 16 (Robertson). 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



Clist.v Americana Town. St. Augustiue, May 21. 



Cabcelia leucani^i Kirk. St. Augustine; Georgetown, May 10. 



CEstrophasia CLADSA B. & B. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 



Phasiopteryx bilimeki B. & B. Georgiana (U. S. Nat. Mus. i. 



Psecdocii.eta argentifrons Coq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. 

 Slosson ). 



Tachina orgyi^e Town. (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Tachina melobosis Walk. (Walker.) 



Masiphya aurigera Coq. (Mrs. Slosson. ) 



Clytiomyia punctata Coq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Ach.etoxeura rubentis Coq. Jacksonville (W. H. Ashmead). 



AcHffiTONEURA armigera Coq. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Ch;etoglossa viOLiE Towu. Inverness, February 16 to March 26 

 (Robertson ). 



Ch^etoglossa picticornis Town. Inverness, Febuary 16 to April 

 4 (Robertson). 



Ch^etoglossa nigripalpis Town. Inverness, February 23 (Rob- 

 ertson ). 



Acroglossa hesperidarum Will. Inverness, March 10, 22 

 (Robertson). 



Siphon a illinoensis Town. Inverness, February 12, March 22 

 (Robertson). 



Phasioclista metallica Town. Orlando, Inverness, March 15-22 

 (Robertson). 



Siphoclytia robertsonii Town. Inverness, March 13-27 (Robert- 

 son). 



Atrophopoda singularis Town. Inverness, March 1 (Robert- 

 son). 



Loewia globosa Town. Inverness, March 3-20 (Robertson). 



Siphophyto floridensis Town. Inverness. March 1-29 (Robert- 

 son). 



Tachinophyto floridensis Town. Inverness, March 1-27 

 (Robertson ) . 



Atrophopalpus angusticorxis Town. Inverness, March 3-19 

 (Robertson ). 



Pseudomyothyria indecisa Town. Inverness, March 3-to 5 

 (Robertson). 



Myothyria vanderwulpi Town. Inverness, February 12 (Rob- 

 ertson). 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Pachyophthalmus floridensis Town. (Robertson). • 



Pachyophthalmus trypoxylonis Town. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tachinomyia floridensis Town. St. Augustine. 

 Ptiloch^eta sp. (Mrs. Slosson. ) 

 Sarcotachinella intermedia Town. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. 



Slosson). 

 Spallanzania pansa Snow. St. Augustine. 

 Degeeria leucocycla v. d. Wulp. St. Augustine ; Tick Island, 



May 12. 

 Acemyia dentata Coq. Georgetown, May 10. 

 Sarcomacronychia floridensis Town. Inverness, March 1-19 



(Robertson). 

 Hypostena maculosa Coq. St. Augustine. 



DEXID^E. 



Gymnodexia triangularis v. d. Wulp. Juniper Cr., May 15. 



Gymnodexia zonata Coq. Jacksonville, May 22. 



Leptoda vertebrata Say. Ormond ; Tampa (Mrs. Slosson). 



Euantha dives Wied. St. Augustine. 



Prosenoides flavipes Coq. Lake Worth ; Charlotte Harbor 

 (Mrs. Slosson). 



Myobia depile Coq. Juniper Creek, May 15 ; Jacksonville (Ash- 

 mead). 



SARCOPHAGIDJE. ■ 



Sarcophaga fulvipes Walker. St. Augustine. 

 Sarcophaga ^gra Walker. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Sarcophaga anxia Walker. (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Sarcophaga cimbicis Town. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Sarcophaga sarraceni^e Riley. Ormond ; Charlotte Harbor 



(Mrs. Slosson). 

 Sarcophaga assidua Walker. St. Augustine, March ; Palatka> 



May 19. 

 Sarcophaga, sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Sarothromyia femoralis Schin. Lake Worth. 

 Johnsonia elegans Coq. St. Augustine. 

 Microch^etina ciNEREA v. d. Wulp. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Helicobia helicis, Town. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Helicobia sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



MUSCID.ffi. 



Stomoxys calcitrans Linne. St. Augustine; Lake Worth (Mrs. 

 Slosson). 



Calliphora erythrocephala Meig. St. Augustine. 



Calliphora viridescens R. Desv. (Walker.) 



Musca domestica Linne. St. Augustine ; Inverness (Robertson). 



Lucilia c^esar Linne. St. Augustine ; Orraond, March, April 

 (Mrs. Slosson). 



Lucilia cornicina Fabr. St. Augustine; Ormond, March, April 

 (Mrs. Slosson) ; Orlando, March 15 (Robertson). 



Lucilia sericata Meig. Orlando, March 16 (Robertson). 



Chrysomyia certima Walker. 



Compsomyia macellaria Fabr. St. Augustine ; Orlando and In- 

 verness, March 10-16 (Robertson). 



Synthesiomyia brasiliana B. & B. In a cave, Citrus Co. (H. 

 G. Hubbard). 



ANTHOMYID.ffil. 



Ophyra aenescens Wied. St. Augustine, March; Charlotte Har- 

 bor (Mrs. Slosson) ; Volusia and Juniper Creek, May 14, 15. 



Leucomelina garkfla Giglio-Tos. St. Augustine, March ; Inver- 

 ness, February 29 (Robertson) ; Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slos- 

 son). 



Limxophora sp. Orlando, March 15 (Robertson). 



Homalomyia femorata Loew. St. John's River, May. These 

 were bred in large numbers from the dead fresh water shells 

 after my return home. 



Lispe uliginosa Fallen. St. Augustine, March; Georgetown^May 

 9 ; Ormond (Mrs. Slosson ). 



Caricea antica Walk. St. Augustine, March ; Drayton Island, 

 May 9; Inverness, February (Robertson). 



Caricea solita Walk. St. Augustine, March. Ormond (Mrs. 

 Slosson). 



Caricea fuscopunctata Macq. St. Augustine, March; Inverness, 

 February (Robertson); St. John's River, May 17; Charlotte 

 Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Caricea nivea Loew. St. Augustine, March; Inverness, February 

 fRobertson). 



Ccenosia lata Walk. (Mrs. Slosson). 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Ccenosia sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Chortophila sp. Inverness, February 14 (Robertson). 

 Chortophila sp. Inverness, February 12 (Robertson). 

 Phorbia fusciceps Zett. St. Augustine ; Orlando, March (Robert- 

 son ). 

 Anthomyia narona Walk. 



CORDYLURID^ffi. 



Cleigastra capillata Leow. St. Augustine. 

 Fucellia fucorum Fallen. St, Augustine, March ; Charlotte 

 Harbor, February (Mrs. Slosson). 



SCIOMYZIDJE. 



Sctomyza nana Fallen. St. Augustine ; Ormond, January (Mrs. 

 Slosson). 



Sciomyza humilis Loew. St. Augustine, March 15. 



Tetanocera spinicornis Loew. St. Augustine, March 15; Or- 

 mond, January (Mrs. Slosson). 



MICROPEZIDJE. 



Calobata nebulosa Loew. St. Augustine ; Juniper Creek, May 

 15 ; Charlotte Harbor, February (Mrs. Slosson). 



Calobata lasciva Fabr. St. Augustine, March 15 ; Juniper 

 Creek, May 15; Jacksonville, April (Mrs. Slosson); Crescent 

 City (Hubbard). 



Calobata fasciata Fabr. February 7 (U. S. Nat. Mus.). 



Calobata varipes Johnson. Jacksonville, May 22. 



OKTALIDJE. 1 



Pyrgota filiola Loew. Ormond, April (Mrs. Slosson). 



Pyrgota sp. Jacksonville (Ashmead). 



Amphicnephes pulla Wied. (A. pertusus Loew. ) Georgetown, 

 May 15; Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 



Rivellia pallida Loew. St. Augustine, May 20 ; Georgiana, 

 July (Whitfeld). 



Rivellia variabilis, Loew. Volusia ; Drayton Island and Juni- 

 per Creek, May ; Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 



1 The new genus and species of this family will be described by Mr. W. A. 

 Snow in a paper in course of preparation. 




1895.1 NATURAL SCIEN0H6 OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



Rivellia quadrifasciata Macq. Volusia and Drayton Island, 



May; Ormond, March (Mrs. Slossonj. 

 Rivellia n. sp. Drayton Island, May 9. 

 Stenopterina n. sp. St. Augustine. 

 Camptoneura picta Fabr. St. Augustine, May 20 ; Cedar Keys, 



February 14 (U. S. Nat. Mus.); Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tephronota humilis Loew. St. Augustine, March 15; Orlando, 



March 16 (Robertson). 

 Acrosticta n. sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Euxesta notata Wied. Inverness, February 10 (Robertson). 

 Euxesta quaternaria Loew. Lake Worth, March, on cocoanut 



palm (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Euxesta scoriacea Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Euxesta nitidivextris Loew. Charlotte Harbor, March (Mrs. 



Slosson). 

 Euxesta annon^e Fabr. St. Augustine, March 15. 

 Celetopsis yENEA Wied. St. Augustine. 



Ch^etopsis n. sp. St. Augustine, March; Orruond (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Gen. nov. n. sp. St. Augustine, March 15. 



TRYPETIDJE. 



Acrotoxa ? acidusa (Walker) Loew. 



Spilographa electa Say. 



Aoiura insecta Loew. Lake Worth, January (Mrs. Slosson). 



Carphotriciia culta Wied. St. Augustine, May, on Thistle ; 



Ormond, April (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Eurosta solidaoixis Fitch. Charlotte Harbor, March (Mrs 



Slosson). 

 Neospilota vernoni.e Loew. Inverness, March 19 (Robertson). 

 Ensina humilis Loew. Key West, January 29 (U. S. Nat. Mus.). 

 Tephritis fucata Fabr. St. Augustine. 

 Euaresta bella Loew. Drayton Island, May 9 ; Tick Island 



May 12. 

 Urellia abstersa Loew. Key West, February 3 (U. S. Nat. 



Mus.). 

 Urellia Solaris Loew. Lake Worth, March (Mrs. Slosson) ; 



Inverness, March 9-22 (Robertson). 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF 1HE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Urellia mevarna (Walker) Loew. "The specimen in the British 

 Museum seems very like T. Solaris. Trypeta narytia Walker. 

 There are four specimens in the British Museum, two of them 

 are Chaiopsis aenea, and one of these bears Walker's label 

 'narytia,' the two other marked 'Florida Doubleday' seem to 

 be Tephronota humilis." Osten Sacken. 



LONCEUEID.3S. 

 Lonch^ea glaberrima Wied. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 



SAPROMYZIDJ1. 



Sapromyza resinosa Wied. Collected by Mrs. Slosson (Coquil- 

 lett). 



Sapromyza umbrosa Loew. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 



Pachycerina verticalis Loew. St. Augustine March ; Lake 

 Worth, January (Mrs. Slosson ) ; Inverness, March (Robertson). 



Lauxania opaca Loew. St. Augustine ; Palatka, May 19 ; Juni- 

 per Creek, May 15. 



Lauxania trivittata Loew. Georgetown, May 16. 



SEPSIDJE. 



Sepsis vicaria Walker. St. Augustine ; Inverness, February 10 

 (Robertson). 



PIOPHILID./E. 

 Piophila casei Linne. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



EPHYDPIDJE. 



Dich^eta brevicauda Loew. St. Augustine. 



Notiphila sp. Orlando, February 23 (Robertson). 



Notiphila sp. Inverness, April 6 (Robertson). 



Paralimna appendiculata Loew. St. Augustine. 



Psilopa sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Hydrellia sp. St. Augustine, March. 



Ochthera tuberculata Loew. St. Augustine, March. 



Ochthera exculpta Loew. St. Augustine ; Inverness, March 



(Robertson). 

 Brachydeutera dimidiata Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. 



Slosson). 

 Parydra quadrituberculata Loew. Ormond, January (Mrs. 



Slosson). 




J 895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Parydra sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Ephydra subopaca Loew. Charlotte Harbor, February (Mrs. 



Slosson). 

 Ephydra nana Walk. Orraond (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Scatella lugens Loew. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 

 C^enia spinosa Loew. .St. Augustine. 



GEOMYSID^J. 

 Heterochroa ornata Johnson. Drayton Island, May 9. 



DROSOPHILID.ffi. 



Drosophila ampelophila Loew. St. Augustine ; Ormond ; 



Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Drosophila quadrimaculata Walk. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. 



Slosson). 

 Drosophila punctulata Loew. St. Augustine, March. 

 Drosophila maculosa Coq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Drosophila vittata Coq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Drosophila guttifera Walk. (Walker.) 



OSCINIDJE. 



Crassiseta Formosa Loew. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 



Crassiseta costata Loew. St. Augustine, March. 



Hippelates convexus Loew. St. Augustine, March. 



Oscinis, sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Meromyza Americana Fitch. St. Augustine. 



Siphonella cinerea Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Chlorops pubescens Loew. St. Augustine ; Orlando, March 16 



( Robertson ). 

 Chlorops grata Loew. St. Augustine. 

 Chlorops trivialis Loew. St. Augustine. 

 Chlorops abdominalis Coq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



AGROMYZIDJE. 



Lobioptera arcuata Loew. (Robertson); Ormond (Mrs. Slos- 

 son). 



Lobioptera indecora Loew. (Robertson). 



Lobioptera lacteipennis Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Leucopis bella Loew. Horse Landing, St. John's River, May 

 17 ; Crescent City (Hubbard). 

 24 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Ac4romyza jucunda v. d. Wulp. Georgetown, May 9. 

 Agromyza setosa Loew. Palatka, May 19. 

 Agromyza terminalis Coq. Welaka, May 9. 



BORBORID.S3. 



Limosina fontinalis Fall. St. Augustine, March. 



PHORIDJE. 



Phora inscisuralis Loew. 9 " Loew described the $ the sexes 

 vary in the color of the thorax, which is black dorsally in the 

 $ and wholly yellow in the 9 as in the European bicolor." 

 (Coquillett. ) Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). Tick 

 Island, May 12. 



Phora fasciata Fall. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.; 



HIPPOBOSCXD.SJ. 



Olfersia Americana Leach. St. Augustine, on the Screech Owl. 

 Olfersia sp. St. Augustine, on the White Heron, November 8. 

 Olfersia sp. St. Augustine, on the Fish Hawk (F. H. Genung). 

 Olfersia sp. St. Augustine, on the Chuck Will's Widow (F. H. 



Genung). 

 Olfersia sp. St. Augustine. 




1<^95. ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



NOTES ON AMERICAN ENCHYTRAEIDiE. I— NEW SPECIES OF FRIDERI- 

 CIA FROM THE VICINITY OF PHILADELPHIA. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



Five species of Friderida have been collected in the neighborhood 

 of Philadelphia, of which one is as yet insufficiently studied. Brief 

 descriptions of the remaining four follow: 



Fritiericia longa n. s. 



Length, 25-30 mm. Number of somites, 60-69. 



Anterior to the clitellum the seta? number four to the bundle, the 

 inner pair being two-thirds the length of the outer. Posterior to the 

 clitellum the bundles are constituted of a single pair. 



The spermathecse (Plate XIII, figs. 4 and 5), are provided with 

 from five to eight accessory sacs or diverticula. These are much* 

 smaller than the central sac, around the base of which they are 

 arranged in a single whorl, and, in the younger worms at least, 

 approximated in pairs. The central or primary sac is more or less 

 cylindrical, with concave, (as in fig. 4) or convex sides, in which 

 latter case it may be nearly spherical. The stalk or duct is slender, 

 and two or three times the length of the expanded portion of the 

 spermatheca; a few small unicellular glands cluster about its mouth. 



A pair of simple salivary glands (pepto-nephridia) open into the 

 oesophagus in the fifth somite. In the examples studied they were 

 quite unbranched (Plate XIII, fig. 6). 



Supra- oesophageal ganglion two-thirds as broad as long, convex 

 behind. 



The nephridia and heart were not studied. 



F. longa has been met with in only one locality, where it was ex- 

 ceedingly plentiful during the month of April of this year. This spot 

 is on a very dry bank by a roadside ; the surface soil, in which the 

 worms were found, is a thin layer of wood mould with a few 

 scattered leaves which were not sufficient to prevent the ground from 

 baking hard and dry. A later visit ( in July) found the worms in 

 very much reduced numbers and of smaller size. In movement and 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



somewhat in form this species recalls the nematodes. It possesses a 

 greater number of somites than is usual in the genus, and reaches a 

 larger size than any other Fridericia yet found in this region. The 

 sides of the somites, and especially the whole surface of the prostom- 

 ium, are plentifully studded with little rounded glandular knobs. 



Fridericia agricola n. s. 



This species has a length of 20-25 mm., and the mature worm 

 65 somites. 



The setse are normally arranged in fascicles of four to the thirtieth 

 somite, posterior to which only two persist. Sometimes the number 

 is respectively five or three owing to the retention of one seta of the 

 larger outer pair for a greater length of time than its fellow. This 

 occurs most frequently in the ventral bundles, and in the outer half 

 of a bundle. The seta of the lateral bundles average about one- 

 tenth longer than those of the ventral. In normal bundles the seta? 

 of the inner pair have a length of nearly two-thirds the outer. 



The spermathecffi (Plate XIII, figs. 1, 2 and 3) are quite different 

 # from those of F. longa. The long, slender stalks are from six to seven 

 times the length of the sacculated portion, and the whole organ propor- 

 tionately much larger than in the other species herein described. 

 The enlarged portion consists of a central thick- walled cylindrical 

 region, capped by a thinner- walled, more or less conical piece, which 

 at its apex opens into the oesophageal lumen. A single pair of 

 accessory sacs arise opposite to each other from the base of the thick- 

 walled region. These are of sub-spherical or sometimes more or less 

 flattened shape, and when fully developed quite as large as the 

 primary sac. They open into the latter by constricted mouths, and 

 being thin- walled, have spacious cavities which are usually filled 

 with spermatozoa, a bunch of which is likewise to be frequently found 

 projecting into the lumen of the oesophagus. .No glands are present 

 at the mouth of the spermatheca. 



The salivary glands (Plate XIII, fig. 7) are conspicuous, and each is 

 divided into from five to seven slender tubular branches, which may 

 themselves be simple or provided with one or two lateral twigs. 

 The tubes are of very irregular diameter. 



The supra-oesophageal ganglion is as in the last species. 



The ante-septal portion of the nephridia is ovate; the post-septal 

 slender, with a dorsal lobe about equaling in size the ante-septal. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



The terminal duct passes forward nearly to the septum and then 

 bends sharply backward to its external pore. 



Prominent transverse slit-like dorsal pores begin on the somite VII. 



These worms are slow and sluggish in movement, and rest most of 

 the time coiled up more or less tightly. They are very plentiful 

 in early spring about the lawns and meadows at Wayne, Delaware 

 County, Pennsylvania, where they are found most frequently coiled up 

 among the bulbous underground stems of garlic. Later during the 

 summer they become very scarce, apparently dying off, as almost none 

 could be found on digging to a depth of eighteen inches, and they 

 did not reappear even when the ground was soaked by prolonged 

 rains. 



A variety of this species has the terminal portion of the sper- 

 matheca for a short distance from the mouth glandularly thickened, 

 and one or two solid outgrowths alternating with the accessory sacs 

 (Plate XIII, Fig. 3.) 



Fridericia parva n. s. 



This is the smallest species that I have found. Its length is 

 12-15 mm., and the number of somites 46. 



Four setae constitute a bundle as far as the twenty-fifth somite, 

 behind which there are only two. 



The spermathecre (Plate XIII, fig. 10) are simple, the stalk being 

 about four times the length of the sacs, with glandular aggregations 

 at its base. There are no diverticula to the saccular region, which 

 is broadly pyriform, and attached to the stalk by its broad end, the 

 narrow end opening into the oesophagus. 



Salivary glands ( Plate XIII, fig. 9) simple and unbranched, with 

 a bulbous dilatation at the mouth. 



The dorsal vessel arises from the peri-enteric sinus in somite XVII. 



The supra-oesophageal ganglion is oblong ovate, about three- fifths 

 as broad as long, with its greatest width a little posterior to the 

 middle of its length, and the posterior border very slightly emargi- 

 nated. Ante-septal portion of nephridia about as long as principal 

 part of post- septal (minus the terminal duct) and about one-half 

 as thick. 



Funnel of vas deferens broadly ovoidal, with a constricted mouth; 

 duct much coiled and about 9—10 times the length of the funnel. 

 Prostate gland flattened globoid. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The dorsal pores begin on somite VII, and are placed in each 

 succeeding somite one-third of its length from the anterior end. 



The larger peritoneal corpuscles are elliptical, with a few small 

 oil drops of very regular size confined to a single circle close to the 

 periphery. 



F. parva is opaline white in color, and the prostomjum is conspicu- 

 ously roughened with rounded glandular nodules. 



This species is rather common between fallen leaves in damp spots 

 in the woods. July. 



Fridericia alba u. s. 



Length, 15-22 mm. Number of somites, 56-58. 



Setae usually four per bundle, with the exception of two or three 

 terminal somites, which have two. In certain of the ante-clitellar 

 somites five, six, or even seven, seta? are sometimes present. The 

 setae of the inner pair in a bundle of four are about three-fourths, or 

 over, the length of the outer. All setae are rather long and slender. 



The spermatheca? (Plate XIII, fig. 11) are almost exactly like 

 those of the last species, the sac being simple, but rather more 

 spherical, the stalk about four to five times its length, and without 

 glands at its mouth. 



The salivary glands (Plate XIII, fig. 8) are very slightly branched, 

 with only two or three branches, and may possibly be sometimes simple. 



The dorsal vessel arises in the twenty-second somite. The brain is 

 nearly oblong and slightly emargiuate behind. Dorsal pores begin 

 on somite VI. 



The nephridia have uot been studied. 



This is the most nearly aquatic of the four species, being found 

 most plentifully in the wet moss and leaves along streams in the 

 woods. Common at all seasons and the most generally distributed 

 species. 



The four species above described are easily distinguished from one 

 another by the characters of the spermatheca and salivary gland 

 alone, as follows: 



alba longa 



parva Spermatheca Salivary gland i 



simple simple 



agricola Salivary gland Spermatheca 



branched with diverticula. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



Description of Plate XIII. 



All figures are magnified 112 diameters. 



Figs. 1-3. Spermathecse of Fridericia agricola; 1, in optical 

 section, showing at s a bundle of spermatozoa projecting into the 

 oesophageal lumen; 2, a view of the base of the saccular region, and 

 3, the entire organ of a specimen of the variety mentioned in 

 the text. 



Figs. 4 and 5. Spermathectie of two individuals of F. long a in 

 lateral and basal views. 



Fig. 6. Salivary gland of F. longa. 



Fig. 7. " " " F. agricola. 



Fig. 8. " " " F. alba. 



Fig. 9. " " " F. parva. 



Fig. 10. Spermatheca of F. parva. 



Fig. 11. " " F. alba. 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



August 6. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nine persons present. 



August 13. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 , Eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Status of the Names Aplysia and 

 Tethys," by H. A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



August 20. 

 Mr. C. Few Seiss in the Chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Synopsis of the Bembicini of Boreal America, ' 

 by William J. Fox, was presented for publication. 



August 27. 

 Adolph W. Miller, M. D. , in the Chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 

 "Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee. No. 1. Reptiles 

 and Amphibians, " by Samuel N. Rhoads. 



"Preliminary Note on a New Alkali Mineral," by Warren M. 



Foote. 



Dr. Charles W. Burr was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed: — 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



ON THE STATUS OF THE NAMES APLYSIA AND TETHYS. 

 BY HENRY A PILSBRY. 



In the course of my studies on the " Sea Hares," preliminary to 

 the preparation of a monograph of this group of Teotibranch Mol- 

 lusks for the Manual of Conchology, my attention was early forced 

 to the fact that in Linnaeus' Tenth Edition of the Systema Naturae 

 the genus Tethys was proposed for the animal now known as Aphjsia, 

 and included nothing else. Moreover, by the terms of the generic 

 diagnosis, such creatures as that known as Tethys in modern times 

 are excluded. 



In the Twelfth Edition of the Systema, Tethys is given a completely 

 different meaning ; and the new term Aphjsia ( Laplysia) is brought 

 forward to include the species of tbe earlier Tethys. This later- 

 usage has been accepted by zoologists until the present day. 



The question then arises, shall we apply to Linnaeus himself the 

 canons of nomenclature which would be rigorously enforced were 

 the claims of his successors in question ? It is with a view to obtain- 

 ing the opinions of those who are expert in these matters that we 

 present below a full synopsis of the literature bearing upon the 

 questions at issue. 



The facts in this case have doubtless been fully unearthed by 

 many investigators; but probably believing it best to " let sleeping 

 dogs rest" no one 1 has to my knowledge seriously raised the ques- 

 tions to which I desire now to direct attention. 



The genus Tethys was founded by Linne in the tenth edition of the 

 Systema Naturae, p. 653, for two species, thus: 



" 254. Tethys. I 'orpus oblougum, bilabiarum : corpusculo 

 medio cartilagineo oblougo. Tentacula duo, cuneiforma. Foramina 

 duo, spirantia. 

 " limacina 1. T. auriculis quatuor. 



Habitat in Oceano Aastrali. 



1 ExceptE. Leigh, who in Mai. Unters. I. p. 33, in Semper's Keisen, 2ter Theil, 

 has made the bald statement that Linnaeus' earlier Tethys was an Aplysia, but 

 who continues to use Tethys for the Nudibranch. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Corpus oblongum, antiee quasi 4 auriculis acutis instructum. 

 " leporina. 2. T. corpore rubro, margine membranaceo, auriculis 

 duobus. 



[a] Bund. pise. 1. p. 520. Lepus mariuus. 



[b] Bell, aquat. 437. Lepus mariuus. 



[c] Gesn. aquat. 475. Lepus mariuus. Aldr. exsangu. 78. 

 Lepus mariuus 1. 



Habitat in M. Mediterraneo. 



Conf. Column, aqu. t. 26, f. 2, 3." 



It will be noticed that the above description of limadna contains 

 nothing diagnostic of a species, though the genus is clearly indicated. 

 As Linne gives us no reference to earlier writers, we have absolutely 

 no means of learning what Teihys limaciria is, and the name must be 

 dropped. 



In the case of leporina, Linne gives ample references to the 

 sources whence his information was derived. These we analyze as 

 follows: [a] Gulielmi Rondeletii, etc., Libri de Piscibus Marinis, 

 etc. (1554), Liber xvii. p. 520, figures an Aplysia which seems to be 

 the A. fasciata of authors (for it lacks the conspicuous shell-foramen 

 of depilans, and the broadly united parapodia of punctata), [b] La 

 Nature & diversity des poissons, avec leurs pourtraicts, represented 

 au plus pres du naturel, par Pierre Belon du Mans (Paris, 1555), 

 p. 437, seems to be an undeterminable species of " Lievre Marin" 

 from the Cyclades, known to Belon through the ancient authors only, 

 [c] Conradi Gesneri medici Tigurini Historic Animalium, Liber 

 III I. qui est de Piscium & Aquatilium Animantium natura (1558), 

 p. 561 (Linne wrongly gives 475 as the page). A reversed copy of 

 Rondelet's figure is given, Gesner's information being wholly second 

 hand, [d] Ulyssis Aldrovandi etc., De Reliquis Animalibus exan- 

 guibus, libri quatuor, post mortem eius editi Nempe De Mollibus, 

 Crustaceis Testaceis, et Zoophytis (1606), De Mollibus, liber I, p. 

 78. In this work, which is purely a compilation, all of Rondelet's 

 figures again do service, and Linnaeus' reference will naturally be 

 confined to the first of these. Aldrovandus also figures (p. 82) a 

 couple of species of Doris as " Lepori? marini alia species," and (p. 

 83) two other figures possibly representing Aclesia. Linne's " conf. 

 Columna " refers us to figures of the Nudibranch commonly known 

 as Tethys fimbria; but this figure is merely cited for comparison, 

 not as a representation of the species T. leporina. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



It would therefore seem that Linne originally intended Tethys for 

 the Aplysia species, his generic diagnosis and references unmistaka- 

 bly indicating the " Lepus inarinus " of the early zoological re- 

 naissance authors. 



In the Twelfth Edition of the Systema, p. 1089, Linne wholly 

 alters the diagnosis of Tetliys as follows: 



"289. Tethys. Corpus liberum, oblongiusculum, carnosum, 

 apodum. Os proboseide terminal e, cylindrica, sub labis explicate. 

 Foramina 2 ad latis colli sinistrum. 

 " leporin. 1. T. labro ciliato. f 



Column, aquat. 27. t. 26. Lepus inarinus major. 



Rondel, pise. 526. Leporis marini tertia species. 



Habitat in Mari Mediterraneo. 

 "fimbria. 2. T. labro crenulato. 



Bohads. mar. 54 t. 5. /. 1, 2. Fimbria. 



Habitat in mari adritico. 



Videtur « prazcedenti distincti species.'" 



All of these references belong to the one Mediterranean species 

 (see Bergh in Semper's Reisen, 2ter Theil, ii, p. 348), known as 

 Tethys fimbria or leporina. 1 



On page 1,082 of the Twelfth Edition, the new genus Aplysia or 

 Laph/sia 2 is proposed, thus: 



" 283. Laplyssia. Corpus repens, obvelatum membranis reflexis. 



( 'lypeo dorsali, membranaceo, pulmones obtegente. 



Foramen laterale, dextrum, pro genitalibus. 



Amis supra extremitatem dorsi. 



1 The specific name of this Nudibranch must stand fimbria Linn.; the 

 binomial combination Tethys leporina being preoccupied by Linnseus 1758. 

 The synonymy of the genus is as follows: 



1761. Fimbria Bohadsch, 1761. (a mononym). 



1767. Tethvs L. 1767, not Tethys L. 1758. 



1801. Tethis Lam., 8vst. An. s. Vert. p. 63. 



1808. Thethys Cuvier, Ann. du Mus. d'Hist, Nat. XII, p. 257. 



1808. Thetis Meckel. Beytr. zu vergleicb. Anat. I. i, p. 9, not Thetis J. Sowb. 



Min. Conch. 1826. 

 1817'?. Thetrs Fir., Tabl. Syst. p. 28. 



1819. Phoenicjtnis Rudolphi, Entozoorum Synopsis, p. 573. 

 1823. Vertumnus Otto. Nov. A. Ac. C. Leop". Nat. Cur. XI, pp. 294-300. 



Of these names the first was not distinctly proposed as a genus, Bohadsch's 

 nomenclature being strictly mononymic. The seventh and eighth were founded 

 on minute appendages of the animal, supposed to be parasitic worms, and 

 certainly the genus could not be identified by these descriptions. The other 

 names are variants on Linnaeus' original Tethys. 



2 The spelling " Laplysia" is evidently a typographical error or oversight, 

 for the first use of the word, on page 1,072 of the Syst. Nat. 12, is in the correct 

 form " Aplysia." The generic diagnosis given on this page is brief, but sufficient: 

 " 283. Aplysia Tentacula 4. Anus supra postica." 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Tentacuta quatuor, anterius sita. 

 '• depilans. 1. Laplysia. 



Syst. Nat. 10. p. 653. Tethys limacina. 



RoniL pise. 1. p. 520. Lepus marinus. 



Gesn. aquat. 475. Lepus marinus Rondeletii. 



Bohads. mar. 3. t. 1, 2, 3. Lernea graphice. 



Seb. mm. 3. t. 1,/. 8, 9. 



Habitat in M. Mediterraneo; sanie depilans tactu. 



(B. 51. J foetidissima ad nauseam usque." 



The description of the genus is implied for the species depilans, 

 and it is also said to be the Tethys limacina of the Tenth Edition. 1 

 The second reference is to the same figure of Rondelet formerly 

 cited for Tethys leporina. The third reference repeats the earlier 

 citation to Gesner, with the same mistake as to the page. The fourth 

 reference is to the excellent figure of Bohadsch's Lernea, represent- 

 ing unmistakably the Aplysia depilans of authors. The reference to 

 Seba is less happy, the figures being too ambiguous for certain 

 determination. It is perfectly evident that Linineus' generic char- 

 acters of Laplysia were derived from Bohadsch's work; and as the 

 best figures are from the same source, the traditional identification 

 of depilans is fully sustained. 



Summary. — From the foregoing facts it would appear that ( 1) 

 the generic name Tethys Linn. 1758, must replace Aplysia and 

 Laplysia Linn. 1767. And (2) as a substitute for TethysL>mn. 1767 

 not 1758, we will probably be compelled to adopt either one of the 

 new spellings of this name proposed in the early part of the century 

 or an entirely new generic term. 



1 We would not replace the specific name defiilanshy limacina, because the 

 latter was not recognizably defined in Linnpeus' earlier edition. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



SYNOPSIS OF THE BEMBICINI OF BOREAL AMERICA. 

 BY WILLIAM J. FOX. 



The genera composing this Tribe may be separated as follows: — 



Anterior ocellus linear, transversely arcuate. 



Maxillary palpi six-jointed, labial palpi four-jointed. Middle seg- 

 ment excavated posteriorly, compressed laterally ; last ventral seg- 

 ment ( $ ) with three spines ; mandibles dentate 



Bembidula Burm. 



Maxillary palpi four-jointed, labial palpi two-jointed ; metathorax 

 flat or convex behind, not compressed laterally ; last ventral seg- 

 ment ( $ ) with a single spine; mandibles dentate . Bembex Fabr. 



Maxillary palpi, three-jointed, labial palpi one-jointed ; metathorax 

 and last ventral segment ( $ ) as in Bembex ; mandibles not den- 

 tate MlCROBEMBEX Patt. 



Anterior ocellus elliptic, round or reniform. 

 Maxillary palpi six-jointed, labial palpi four-jointed; anterior ocel- 

 lus round or reniform ; maxillae short Monedula Latr. 



Maxillary palpi three-jointed, labial palpi one-jointed ; anterior 

 ocellus longitudinally elliptic; maxilhe long, reaching the hind 



coxae Steniolia Say. 



In the above table I have considered Microbembex as a genus, 

 notwithstanding my former views. In the respective three-and one- 

 jointed palpi it differs from Bembex about as much as that genus 

 does from Monedula. 



BEMBIDULA Burm. 



Bembex Olivier (in pt.), Encycl. method., IV, p. 288, 1789. 

 Bembidula Burmeister, Bol.. Acad. Cordova. I, p. 122, 1874. 

 Monedula Cresson (in pt.), Synopsis, p. 116, 1887. 



fema les. 



Posterior coxae unarmed 2 



Posterior coxae strongly dentate beneath (wings smoky) . . jodiens. 



2. Last dorsal abdominal segment without a strongly marked pygidial 



area, the lateral ridge feeble, if present ; wings scarcely smoky 3 



Last dorsal abdominal segment with a strongly marked pygidial 



area' the lateral ridges strong 4 



3. Last dorsal segment of abdomen with the lateral ridge present, 



but weak and short 5 



Last dorsal segment of abdomen without any trace of ridges . . 6 




Si)2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



4. Legs ferruginous ; wings tolerably smoky ; abdominal marks not 



very broad and widely separated internally ; rnesopleurae black 



capnoptera. 



Legs yellow ; wings scarcely smoky ; abdominal marks broad, 

 forming bauds; rnesopleurae more or less yellow parata. 



5. Two lines on dorsulum, scutellum anteriorly, metanotum (postscu- 



tellum), curved line on middle-segment above, and a broad line 

 on each side of all the dorsal abdominal segments, yellowish ; 

 hind tibia? striped with black above ; wings clear . . variegaia. 

 The dorsulum, scutellum, metanotum, and middle segment (except 

 latero-posterior angles) black, in rare cases only are these parts 

 spotted, and then only in a slight degree ; fifth and sixth dorsal 

 abdominal segments black, the former sometimes spotted in which 

 case the spots are widely separated ; hind tibia? not striped with 

 black; wings dusky, paler at base and apex . . . quadrifasciata. 



6. Legs, antennae in part, labrum and tip of abdomen ferruginous ; 



clypeus yellow insidiatrix. 



Legs black and yellow, the tibiae in part and the tarsi ferruginous ; 



antennae, labrum and the tip of abdomen not at all ferruginous ; 



clypeus black entirely, or with the base more or less whitish 



• . . . ventralis. 



MALES. 



1. Posterior coxae unarmed 2 



" Posterior coxae armed with a t< oth beneath." fodiens. 



2. Intermediate femora beneath at the base drawn out into a promi- 



nent tooth 3 



Intermediate femora not dentate beneath at base, at the most angu- 

 lar 5 



3. Joints seven to ten of antennae strongly rounded out beneath . . 4 

 " Joints seven to ten of antennae not rounded out beneath (legs fer- 

 ruginous) " insidiatrix. 



4. Clypeus entirely, dorsulum laterally, greater part of femora, the 



tibiae and tarsi entirely, bright yellow; markings of abdomen 

 sometimes united within, broader than in ventralis; wings clear 



parata. 



Clypeus black, or whitish at base only ; dorsulum not yellowish 

 laterally, the greater part of femora and the tibiae in part, black ; 

 fasciae of abdomen always separated internally, those on first seg- 

 ment variable in size ; wings a little infuscated . . . ventralis. 



5. Legs not ferruginous in part; wings, if dusky, but slightly so ; 



medial femora beneath not distinctly keeled, or angular at base . 6 

 Legs ferruginous and yellow, wings dusky; medial femora beneath 



distinctly keeled and angulate at base . capnoptera. 



(>. Greater part of clypeus, two lines on dorsulum (rarely absent), 

 scutellum anteriorly, metanotum, curved line on middle seg- 

 ment above, and a broad line on each side of all the dorsal abdomi- 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES <)K PHILADELPHIA. 353 



nal segments, yellowish ; hind tibise striped with black above ; 



wings clear variegata. 



Clypeus (rarely maculated), dorsulum, Bcutellum, metanotum and 

 niiddle-segment (except latero-posterinr angles) black, in rare 

 cases only are these parts spotted, and then only to a slight degree; 

 last two or three dorsal abdominal segments black, sometimes the 

 fifth, or fifth and sixth spotted, in which case the spots are widely 

 separated ; hind tarsi not striped with black, wings a little dusky, 

 paler at base and apex quadrifasciata. 



1. Bembidula variegata Oliv. 



Bembex variegata Olivier, Encycl. Method., IV, p. 292. 

 Monedula dissecta Dahlbom, Hym. Eur., I. p. 186. 

 Monedula sericea Spinola (in pt. ), Cay's Hist. Chile, VI, p. 315. 

 Bembidula variegata Handlirsh, Site., Akad. Wissen, Wien, Math.-naturw. 

 Classe, XCVIII, Abt'h. 1, p. 488. 



Lower California ; Albuquerque, New Mexico (Coll. Ashmea<l); 



found also in Brazil. , 



2. Bembidula quadrifasciata Say. 



Monedula 4-fasciata Say, Exped. St. Peter's River, II. p. 33(5, $ 9 

 Monedula Sal lei, Cuerin, Icon, du Regne Anim., III. 437. 

 Bembidula quadrifasciata Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 492. 



Occurs from Pennsylvania to Florida, westward to Texas. 



3. Bembidula insidiatrix'Hdl. 



1 Monedula ventralis Cresson (in pt.), Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 220. 

 Bembidula insidiatrix Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 494, 9 $ 



Texas and Kentucky (Handlirsch). I have received a 9 from 

 the Rev. G. Birkman, of Lee County, Texas. The S I have not 

 seen. Handlirsch is probably right in assuming that Cresson con- 

 fused ventralis, insidiatrix and capnoptera, in his "Hymenoptera 

 Texana." 



4. Bembidula parata Prov. 



Monedula parata Provancher, Add. Hym. Quebec, p. 416. 



California (Provancher): Los Angeles (Coquillett) ; Utah; 

 Nevada. The maculation of this species is a much richer yellow 

 than in ventralis, and the 9 , which has been heretofore unnoticed, 

 is very much like the S , and has a well developed pygidium. 



5. Bembidula ventralis Say. 

 Monedula ventralis Say, 1. c, p. 336. $ . 

 Monedula ventralis Cresson (in. pt. ). 1. a., p. 220. 

 Monedula ventralis Provancher, Faun. Ent. Can., p. 629. 9 <J . 

 Bembidula ventralis Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 495. 



Our most abundant and widely distributed species. It is reported 



from Canada (Provancher), and I have before me specimens from 



Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Georgia, Texas, 



Colorado, California, Oregon and other localities. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



6. Bembidula capnoptera Hdl. 



? Monedula vent rails Cresson (iu pt. ), 1. c, p. 220. 



Bembidula capnoptera Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 497, PI. II, f. 7, 12. 9 $ , 



Georgia, Kentucky and Texas ( Handlirsch). Specimens in col- 

 lection from Georgia and Texas. The Rev. G. Birkman has sent 

 specimens from Lee county, Texas. 



7. Bembidula fodiens Hdl. 



Bembidula fodiens Handlirsch. 1. c, p. 497. PI. II, f. 14.^ 9 . 



Georgia and Texas (Handlirsch): Lee county (Birkman). I have 

 not seen the $ . 



BEMBEX Fabr. 



Bembyx Fabricius, Syst. Ent., p. 361, 1775. 

 Bembex Olivier, Ency. method., IV. p. 288, 1789. 



Bembex Handlirsch. Sitzb. Akad. Wissen., Wien, Math -naturw. Classe. CII, 

 A,bth. I, p. 659, 1893. • 



FEMALES. 



Labrum basally with a distinct transverse impression; sixth dorsal 

 segment coarsely wrinkled longitudinally 2 



Labrum not impressed basally; sixth dorsal segment more or less 

 punctured, rarely wrinkled 3 



2. Mandibles, tubercles and fore part of second dorsal segment not 



yellow Belfragei. 



Mandibles medially, spot on tubercles and anterior portion of second 

 dorsal segment, yellow insignia. 



3. Wings distinctly infuscated medially 4 



Wings clear throughout • 5 



4. Greater part of pro- and mesopleurae and sides of middle segment, 



clypeus entirely, sides of dorsulum, scutellum and metanotum in 

 part and semicircular line on upper surface of middle segment, 

 bright yellow; markings of abdomen dorsally, broad, all united 

 internally and covering the greater portion of dorsal surface; 



wings very strongly infumated medially nubilipennis. 



Mesopleurae and sides of middle segment black in greater part; 

 base of clypeus with two black spots ; no yellow on dorsulum, 

 metanotum, or middle segment above, the scutellum with a dot 

 on each wide only ; markings of abdomen narrow, strongly sinu- 

 ous and more or less separated, particularly those on first seg- 

 ment ; wings not strongly infumated texana. 



5. Middle segment above not at all yellow 6 



Middle segment above with a semi-circular yellow line .... 18 



B. Thorax above entirely black, except perhaps a line on pronotum or 



a very small lateral spot on scutellum 7 



Thorax above distinctly spotted with yellow 11 




1895.] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



7. Thorax entirely black, including the sides; abdominal spots small, 

 widely separated, the fifth and sixth segments not spotted. 



cinerea. 



Thorax more or less yellow on the sides 8 



8. Mesopleime spotted 9 



Mesopleune not spotted Spiuolce. 



9. Clypeus entirely yellow ; form elongate 10 



Clypeus with two black spots basally ; form shorter and 

 more robust texana. 



10. Markings of abdomen narrow, separated within ; mesopleurse 



with two small spots amoena. 



Markings of abdomen broad, united within; mesopleurse with 



a large spot covering about half its area connexus. 



11. Thorax at the most clothed with a thin, pale pubescence, 



more or less yellow on the sides 12 



Thorax densely pruinose, not spotted on sides; markings of 

 abdomen broad, united internally, greenish-white . . pruinosa. 



12. Dorsulum and abdomen densely clothed with pale pubes- 

 cence, that on abdomen shortest troglodytes- 



Dorsulum clothed with pubescence on anterior portion only, that 

 on abdomen not dense, but rather indistinct similans. 



13. Clypeus with two black spots basally texana 1 



Clypeus entirely yellowish 14 



14. Yellow on dorsulam forming a U, as in Monedulaformosa; sixth 



dorsal segment somewhat wrinkled TJ-scripta. 



Yellow on dorsulum, if present, in the shape of short, parallel 

 lines or spots; sixth dorsal segment punctured 15 



15. Markings of ventral abdominal segments forming broad, non- 

 interrupted bands; eyes strongly diverging beneath. 



oecidentalis. 



Markings, of ventral abdominal segments small, widely inter- 

 rupted, or connected by a narrow apical line 16 



16. Thorax densely pruinose, not spotted on the sides; markings of 

 of abdomen broad, united internally, greenish white . pruinosa. 

 Thorax at the most clothed with a thin, pale pubescence, more 

 or less yellow on the sides 17 



17. Fore coxse and greater part of sides of thorax, black, 



troglodytes. 



Fore coxae and greater part of sides of thorax, yellow .... Sayi. 2 



1 This form of texana, having the middle segment maculated above is 

 unknown to me. 



2 According to Handirsch's description, the dorsulum of troglodytes is 

 spotted medially. The specimens before me do not show this character, differ- 

 ing in that respect from Sayi, which has two central and a posterior yellow spot. 



25 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



MALES. 



Labrum basally with a distinct, transverse impression 2 



Labrum not impressed basally 8 



2. Clypeus entirely or in greater part black; sixth dorsal segment 



spotted Belfragei. 



Clypeus entirely yellow; sixth dorsal segment rarely spotted. 



insignia 



3. Intermediate tarsi short, not longer than their tibia?; thorax en- 

 tirely black; dorsal segments 1-3 with a small lateral spot only. 



cinerea. 



Intermediate tarsi longer than their tibia?; thorax more or less yel- 

 low ; abdomen usually with prominent maculations 4 



4. Seventh ventral segment apically produced into a spine (intermedi- 

 ate tibia? not serrate) 5 



Seventh ventral segment otherwise formed (3 



5. Markings bright yellow, those on ventral segments of abdomen 

 broad, continuous; spine of seventh ventral segment pointed at 



apex occidentalis. 



Markings greeuish-white those on ventral abdominal segments 

 broad at the sides only, connected by a narrow apical line ; spine 

 of seventh ventral segment bifurcate at apex pruinosa. 



6. Antennal joints not dentate or spinose beneath 7 



Antenna! joints more or less dentate or spinose 8 



7. Intermediate femora serrate beneath; middle-segmeut never yel- 

 low above; mesopleura? with a small yellowish spot; abdomen 



tolerably hairy texana. 



Intermediate femora unarmed ; middle-segment usually with a 

 semicircular yellow line above, and the mesopleura? generally 

 with a large spot ; abdomen very hairy troglodytes. 



8. Prominence of sixth ventral segment bifid ; stipes of genitalia 



very broad, broadly truncate at apex . . ainoena. 



Prominence of sixth ventral segment simple; stipes of genitalia 

 otherwise formed 9 



9. Dorsuluni spotted medially 10 



Dorsulurn not spotted medially 11 



10. Dorsulum with two spots anteriorly in the middle; second and 

 seventh ventral segments with a large prominence medially ; 

 stipes of genitalia as in Plate XIV, fig. 4 ; first joint of medial 



taM normal Sayi. 



Dorsulum with the yellow forming a U ; second ventral segment 

 smooth, the seventh bearing two converging ridges ; stipes of 

 genitalia as in Plate XIV, tig. 5 ; first joint of medial tarsi 

 strongly curved U-scripia. 



11. Second ventral segment with a huge prominence in the middle . 12 

 Second ventral segment at the most with a ridge in the middle. 



13 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



12. Thorax rather densely clothed with long cinereous pubescence ; 

 femora about equally black and yellow ; markings of abdomen 



usually greenish-white or pale yellow Spinolce. 



Thorax not densely clothed with pubescence ; femora entirely 

 yellow, more rarely black at extreme base ; markings bright 

 yellow (markings of thorax variable) nubUipennis. 



13. Flagellum entirely black ; form large and robust . . nubUipennis. 

 Flagellum pale beneath ; form smaller and less robust ; stipes of 

 genitalia as in fig. 1, Plate XIV similans. 



1. Bembex amoena Hdl. 



Bembex amoena Handlirsch, Sitz. Akad. Wien., Math.-naturw. Classe, Abth. 

 I, CII, p. 769. $ J , PL I, f. 32; PL VI, f. 31. 



Illinois (Handlirsch); Colorado; British Columbia (Handlirsch); 

 California; Nevada; Utah and Lower California. 



This species is the lucce of Cresson, which was never described. 

 The abdominal markings are extremely variable, in some specimens 

 being almost entirely wanting. 



2. Bembex Belfragei Cress. 



Bembex Belfragei Cresson, (in pt.), Pr. Am. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 220, $ . 

 Bembex Cressonis Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 792, $ £> , PL V, f. 6. 



Texas. Cresson confused two species in his description of this 

 species and Handlirsch, unable to decide from it which form should 

 be called Belfragei, gives them both a new name. I have Cresson's 

 types before me and find that the specimen on the original label to be 

 Cressonis Handlirsch. Judging from this and from the fact that all 

 the Cressonis are from Texas, while on the contrary the other form 

 is from Georgia and Florida, I would place Cressonis as a synonym 

 of Belfragei. There is, of course some doubt whether this is the 

 proper course to pursue in the matter, but I think the facts cited 

 above are sumcent to justify this action. 



3. Bembex insignis Hdl. 



Bembex Belfragei Cresson (in pt.), 1. c, p. 220. $ . 



Bembex insignis Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 793, $ O , PL II, f. 7; PL VI, f. 32. 



Georgia, Florida (C. W. Johnson). 



4. Bembex Spinolae St. Farg. 



? Bembex fasciata Fabricius, Syst. Piez., 224, 1804. 

 Bembex Spinolce Lepeletier, de St. Fargeau, Hym. , III, 277. 

 Bembex fasciata Dahlbom, Hym. Eur., I, 487, 9 • 

 Bembex Spinolce Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 825. 



Occurs throughout the United States and has been known to 

 American students as fasciata Fabr., but as Handlirsch points out 

 Fabricius' description applies equally well to other species of the 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



genus and therefore it is impossible to identify the true fasciata, with- 

 out comparison with the type. Cresson's texana fits Fabricius' des- 

 cription as well as does Spinoke. As I have pointed out elsewhere, it 

 would have been better to have retained our common species, for years 

 known to American students as fasciata, as that species than to have 

 changed it at so late a date. This, of course, is only a matter of 

 opinion, and some day the name will be set right, provided the type 

 of Fabricius' species is in existence; otherwise we will have another 

 name to add to the list of unidentified species. 



The amount of yellow on the prothorax varies in Spinolce. I have 

 seen no £ 's (in a series of specimens) having the stipes of genitalia 

 as figured by Handlirsch. While the form varies, as is stated by 

 that author, it is, as a rule, but little different from that shown in fig. 

 2, Plate XIV. The description of fasciata Fabr., is as follows: 



" B. clypeus integro, abdomine atro fasciis glaucis lunatis. Hab. in 

 Carolina, Mus. Dom. Bosc. 



Summa affinitas B. rostratw. Antenme nigra?, primo articulo 

 subtus flavo. Caput nigrum, cinereo villosum, clypeo conico, flavo, 

 integro. Thorax niger, cinereo tomentosus margine antico tenuis- 

 sime, puncto sub alis alioque pone alas glaucis. Abdomen atrum 

 segmento primo fascia interrupta, reliquis fascia e lunulis duabus 

 connatis glaucis. Pedes flavi femoribus basi nigris." 



5. Bembex similans n. sp. Plate XIV, f. 1. 



9 . — Black; head, thorax, dorsulum and scutellum excepted, and 

 abdomen with cinereous pubescence, shortest on the abdomen ; inner 

 and posterior orbits, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, spot 

 between the antennre drawn out into a narrow line which 

 reaches the fore ocellus and may be interrupted medially, 

 scape beneath, spot on first joint of flagellum beneath, prothorax 

 particularly on the sides, tubercles, line at each side of dorsulum, 

 tegular in part, spot on scutellum laterally, greater part of meso-and 

 metapleurpe, sides of middle-segment almost entirely, spot on anterior 

 and medial coxa3, femora except base and a line above on fore and hind 

 pairs, tibia except line on fore pair within, tarsi except claws, two 

 large spots on first dorsal segment separated internally and a strongly 

 sinuous, non-interrupted band on segments 2-5, and a spot at each 

 side of ventrals 2-4, yellow; flagellum yellowish-testaceous beneath; 

 sculptured as in Spinoke, but the upper surface of middle segment 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



more strongly punctured; wings hyaline, nervures pale testaceous. 

 Length 14 mm. 



$ . — Colored and marked as in the 9 ; joints 5-8 of flagellum 

 dentate beneath; medial femora serrate beneath; second ventral 

 segment carinated down the middle, the sixth armed with a strong 

 tooth; stipes of genitalia as in fig. 1, PI. XIV. Length 14 mm. 



Las Cruces, New Mexico (Cockerell) August 14. Resembles 

 Spinohe but differs in the thoracic markings, not hairy dorsulum, etc. 



6. Bembex Sayi Cress. Plate XIV, f. 4. 



Bembex Sayi Cresson, Proc. Ent. Soc, Phila. IV, p. 467, 9 > Handlirsch, 

 1 c, p. 877. 



Colorado; Kansas (Snow); Cypress Mills, Texas (Ashmead); Illi- 

 nois. Resembles texana but differs by having the dorsulum and mid- 

 dle-segment above maculated and by clearer wings. The £ is as 

 follows : $ . — - Inner and posterior orbits, clypeus, labrum, spot 

 between antennae, and another before the anterior ocellus, scape be- 

 neath, mandibles except apex, prothorax particularly on the sides, 

 large irregular spot on mesopleurse and another on the metapleurse and 

 sides of middle-segment, two short parallel spots on dorsulum ante- 

 riorly, a line at the sides near the tegulre, sometimes a lateral spot 

 on the scutellum, spot on fore and medial coxa?, femora except at 

 base and a line on hind pair, tibise except a line on anterior pair, 

 tarsi except claws, two spots, widely separated on first dorsal seg- 

 ment, broader spots, narrowly separated and sometimes each in- 

 cluding a black spot on second, strongly sinuated, narrowly separ- 

 ated marks on segments 3-6, spot on seventh, large lateral spots on 

 second ventral sometimes united into a band, and smaller spots on the 

 remaining segments, yellow; flagellum yellowish testaceous beneath; 

 head, thorax, and abdomen with cinereous pubescence, short and 

 rather sparse on abdomen; wings hyaline, nervures pale testaceous; 

 joints 6-8, or 9, of flagellum dentate beneath ; middle femora 

 beneath serrate; middle segment strongly impressed down the 

 middle; second ventral segment with a large, strongly curved tooth 

 or hook ; sixth ventral with a strong tooth ; stipes of genitalia as in 

 fig. 4, PI. XIV. Length, 13 mm. The three males before me 

 have no yellow on the upper surface of middle segment and a female 

 from the same locality has but a slight trace of yellow on the part 

 mentioned. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



7. Bembex texana Cress. 



Bembex texana Cresson, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc. , IV. p. 219, 9 

 Bembex texana Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 730, PI. II, f. 30, PI. VII, f. 21, 9 $ 



Texas; Geoi'gia; Florida; Carolina and Kentucky (Handlirsch). 



8. Bembex troglodytes Hdl. 



Bembex troglodytes Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 829, PL II, f. 29, 9 $ 



Mexico (Handlirsch); Texas; Jacksonville, Florida (Ashmead). 

 The $ of this species resembles that of the Sayi to some extent, 

 but abdomen is more hairy and the antenna? not dentate. In his 

 description of this species Handlirsch states that the antennse are not 

 dentate, while in the synoptic table at the end of his work they are 

 stated to be just the contrary. 



9. Bembex connexus n. sp. Plate XIV, f. 3. 



9 . — Black; head and thorax with cinereous pubescence, that on 

 dorsulum short; with exception -of the first dorsal segment the 

 abdomen is almost naked, being very sparsely clothed with a short 

 pubescence; inner and posterior orbits, spot between antennse and 

 another before the anterior ocellus, clypeus, labrum, mandibles 

 except apex, scape and flagellum beneath, sides of prothorax, large 

 spot on mesopleurse anteriorly, metapleurse, greater part of sides of 

 middle segment, tegulse more or less, spot on fore and medial coxse, 

 femora except a line above, tibiae except small spot within on 

 anteriors, tarsi except claws, large spots on first segment, interrupted 

 internally, broad bands or segments 2-5, whose anterior margin is 

 strongly sinuated, that on segment 5 slightly interrupted medially, 

 spot on segment 6, large spot on each side of ventrals 2-5, which 

 spots are connected by a narrow transverse line, this being enlarged 

 medially, and two longitudinal spots on sixth segment, yellowish; 

 wings hyaline, nervures dark testaceous ; punctures of second 

 ventral segment strongly and sparsely punctured medially. Length 

 20 mm. 



$ . — Marked and colored like the 9 , except in the following 

 points: line on pronotum, a spot on each side of scutellum, line on 

 metanotum yellow; the yellow on sides of thorax is more extended, 

 while the spots on ventral abdominal segments are not connected; no 

 black line on medial femora above, and that on the fore and hind fem- 

 ora is less than in the 9 ; joints 6-8, or 9 of flagellum dentate; medial 

 femora beneath serrate; second ventral segment armed with a large 

 tooth, and the sixth with a smaller one which is strongly furrowed 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



on apical portion; stipes of genitalia as in fig. 3, Plate XIV. Length 

 16 mm. 



Utah. Its large size, thoracic markings, and broad markings 

 of abdomen serve to distinguish this species. The stipes of the S 

 genitalia is different from that of the other species. 



10. Bembex cinerea Hell. 



Bembex cinerea Handlirsch, 1. c. p. 837, PI. II, f. 34, PI. Ill, f. 29, £ $ . 



I have only seen this species from Georgia, the type locality. 

 When viewed from above the males appear to have the abdomen 

 entirely black, but when held a little on the side the small lateral 

 spots are seen. 



11. Bembex nubilipennis Cress. 



Bembex nubilipennis Cresson, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc. IV, p. 218, $ £ ; Hand 

 lirsch, 1. c, PI. II, f, 38, PI. VII, f. 25. 



Texas; Louisiana; Illinois, and Missouri (Handlirsch); Kansas; 

 Nebraska; Colorado. 

 10. Bembex pruinosa n. sp. Plate XIV, f. 6. 



9 . — Black, the- head, thorax and first segment of abdomen 

 densely clothed with a pale grayish pubescence, the abdomen with a 

 thin, appressed pubescence; inner and posterior orbits, spot between 

 antenna?, scape and flagellum beneath, clypeus, labrum, mandibles 

 except apex, narrow line on pro- and metanotum, line on hind 

 margin of scutellum, sometimes wanting or represented by a lateral 

 spot only, curved line on upper surface, and a spot on sides of 

 middle segment, either of which or both may be absent, sides of pro- 

 thorax, in part, rarely, femora except heavy line above and some- 

 times the base beneath, tibia? entirely or with a dark spot internally, 

 and tarsi yellowish; dorsal segments 1-5 of abdomen with a broad, 

 uninterrupted band, and a spot at each side of ventrals 2-5, greenish- 

 white; wings hyaline; eyes diverging beneath. Length 17-18 mm. 



$. — Similar in coloration to the 9> except that the last dorsal 

 segment is spotted; joints 6 and 7 of flagellum slightly dentate; 

 medial femora not serrate, entire; second ventral segment not dentate 

 or tuberculate, the seventh with two short, somewhat parallel 

 carina?, eighth produced into a bifurcated spine at apex; stipes of 

 genitalia as in fig. 6, Plate XIV. Length 17-18 mm. 



Oregon; Kansas; Texas; Camden county, New Jersey (July 22). 

 This is easily distinguished by its markings and male characters. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



13. Bembex occidentalis Fox. 



Bembex occidentalis Fox, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. (2), IV, p, 10, 9 $ \ Hand- 

 lirsch, 1. c, p. 868, pi. Ill, f. 13; pi. VII. f. 38. 



Lower California ; California, Nevada, Las Cruces, New Mexico 

 (Cockerell). The ventral abdominal segments in this species are 

 broadly banded with yellow. 



14. Bembex TJ-scripta n. sp. Plate XIV , f. 5, 9. 



9 . Black ; head and thorax clothed with a tolerably dense, long, 

 yellowish pubescence ; abdomen with a short, sparse pubescence ; 

 inner and posterior orbits broadly, spot between antenna?, scape and 

 flagellum beneath, elypeus except a large central spot, labrum 

 mandibles except apex, prothorax, meso-and metapleurae and sides 

 of middle-segment entirely, large U-shaped mark and lateral line on 

 dorsulum, line on scutellum and metanotum, curved line on middle- 

 segment, posterior face of the latter toward the sides, all the coxae 

 more or less, femora except a stripe above, tibiae except an internal 

 spot tarsi, two large sinuated spots on dorsal segments 1-4, almost 

 united within, three spots on segment 5, segment 6, and all the ven- 

 tral abdominal segments more or less, the spots on segments 3—5 

 smallest, yellow; wings hyaline, nervures and stigma dark testaceous; 

 eyes diverging a little beneath ; second ventral segment finely and 

 closely punctured throughout ; first transverso-cubital nervure but 

 slightly bent. Length 18 mm. 



£ . — Colored and marked like the 9 except that the front of the 

 head, thorax except above, legs and the first four ventral abdominal 

 segment are almost entirely yellow; scape of antennae short and 

 broad, the flagellum with the joints rather flattened, the sixth to 

 tenth being more or less dentate, the apical joint rather strongly 

 curved; medial femora margined beneath with unusually long teeth 

 or spines; apex of medial tibiae drawn out into a prominence; first 

 joint of medial tarsi strongly curved ; second ventral segment 

 smooth, not dentate or tuberculate; the seventh with two carinae 

 which diverge basally; eighth ventral produced into a spine at apex; 

 stipes of genitalia, as in fig. 5, plate XIV. Length 18-19 mm. 



California ; Tucson, Arizona (coll. Ashmead). Remarkable 

 for its male characters. The shape of the medial first tarsal joint 

 in S is very like that of Monedula formosa, and the markings are 

 very similar to that species. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 36o 



MICROBEMBEX Patton. 



Microbembex Patton, Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, V, 364, 1879. 

 Bembcx (in pt.) Handlirsch, 1. c. p. 660, 1893: Fox, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 

 1894, p. 303. 



Microbembex inonodonta Say. 



Bembex monodonlaS&y, Exp. St. Peter's River, Appendix, p. 335. 

 Bembex filial a Lepeletier de St. Fargeau, Hym., Ill, 379, $ . 

 Bembex argentifrotis Cresson, Proc. Ent. Soc, Phila., IV, p. 141, O g . 

 Microbembex monodonta Patton, 1. c, p. 364. 

 Bembex monodonta Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 882. 



Occurs throughout the United States and extends' to Guatemala. 

 In the S the markings of the abdomen are extremely variable ; 

 and I have a specimen before me in which the abdomen is entirely 

 yellow. 



MONEDTJLA Latreille. 



Monedula Latreille, Hist. Nat. des Insects, III, 345. 1802. 

 Stictia Illiger, Faun. Etrusca, Ed. 2, 285, 1806. 



Monedula Handlirsch, Sitz. d. k. Akad. Wissensch. Wien. Math.-naturw. 

 Classe, XCIX, Abth. I, 77. 1890. 



Females. 



Second ventral abdominal segment a little prominent aud truncate 

 basally; anterior ocellus round, not placed in a pit 2 



Second ventral abdominal segment not prominent, fiat; anterior 

 ocellus reniform, placed in a strong pit 3 



2. Sides of thorax almost entirely, four longitudinal stripes on dorsu- 



lum, line on scutellum and metanotum and a curved one on 

 middle segment, yellowish; femora yellow with a dark stripe 



above signata. 



Sides of thorax except tubercles and lateral angles of middle seg- 

 ment, black; dorsulum with a yellow spot near the tegula j only, 

 the scutellum with a small lateral spot; middle segment with 

 or without a curved yellow line Carolina. 



3. Dorsulum with a U-shaped yellow mark (pulvilli large and dis- 



tinct) 4 



Dorsulum at the most with two longitudinal yellow marks ... 5 



4. Length 16-22 mm.; eyes converging above; abdomen about equally 



yellow r and black speciosa. 



Length 10 mm.; eyes not converging above; abdomen almost 

 entirely yellow scitula_ 



5. Pulvilli large and distinct 6 



Pulvilli small, indistinct 10 



6. Head small, narrower than thorax (head and thorax more hairy 



than usual; no marks on dorsulum or mesopleuree; markings 



pale yellow ' emarginata. 



Head as usual, as wide as thorax 7 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



7. Anterior wings reaching beyond the third abdominal segment . 8 

 Anterior wings not reaching beyond the third abdominal segment 



9 



8. Thorax on sides and beneath almost entirely yellow, the greater 



part of abdomen of that color; median and hind tarsi as usual; 

 thorax not much narrowed posteriorly. Length 18 mm. 



temiieornis. 



Thorax on sides and beneath more or less black; the segments of 

 abdomen about equally yellow and black; median and hind 

 tarsi somewhat flattened, the last joint larger than usual; 

 thorax distinctly narrowed posteriorly. Length 11-12 mm. 



pulla. 



9. Length 12-15 mm.; mesosternum in greater part black; front and 



vertex clothed with long, pale grayish hair; punctuation of 

 dorsulum very dense, almost granular; fasciae of abdomen 



deeply emarginate anteriorly pictifrons. 



Length 9 mm.; mesosternum almost entirely yellow; front and 

 vertex with sparse, rather short, pale hair; punctuation of dor- 

 sulum distinct; fasciae of abdomen, the first excepted, scarcely 

 emarginate exigua. 



10. No yellow on dorsulum medially or on middle segment; first 



dorsal abdominal segment with a lateral spot, the fasciae on the 

 following segments interrupted medially; wings fusco-hyaline. 



serrata. 



Dorsulum medially and middle segment above spotted; all the 

 dorsal abdominal segments (except the last in one species) with 

 a continuous fascia; wings hyaline 11 



11. Clypeus entirely and a large spot on mesopleurse as well as greater 



part of femora, the tibiae and tarsi entirely and a fascia on all 

 the ventral segments and apex of last dorsal, yellow. 



pulchella. 



Clypeus basally, mesopleurae, femora, except apically, tibiae with- 

 in, black; tarsi dark testaceous; at the most the second ventral 

 with a small lateral spot; last dorsal entirely black . . usitata. 



Males. 



Seventh dorsal segment with a distinct lateral spine; eighth ven- 

 tral terminating in one spine 2 



Seventh dorsal segment not spinose; eighth ventral with three 



spines 3 



2. Lateral spine of seventh dorsal segment acuminate at tip; thorax 

 maculated; maculation of first dorsal segment in form of CD 

 that on the following segments not broken into spots . signata. 



Lateral spine of seventh dorsal segment truucate or obtuse at apex ; 

 maculation of first dorsal segment consisting of two large spots, 

 that on third segment of four spots Carolina. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



3. First joint of medial tarsi curved 4 



First joint of medial tarsi not curved 12 



4. .Medial femora serrate or carinate beneath, or broadly emarginate 5 

 Medial femora smooth beneath 11 



5. Eighth ventral, with a discal spine 6 



Eighth ventral, without a discal spine 8 



6. Apical joint of fore tarsi greatly enlarged ; fore femora flattened 



(second ventral segment unarmed) speciosa. 



Apical joint of fore tarsi not enlarged ; fore femora not flat- 

 tened 7 



7. " Second ventral segment flat and unarmed ; pulvilli scarcely dis- 



cernible." serrata. 



Second ventral segment with two approximate tubercles near 

 posterior margin ; pulvilli distinct < marginata.* 



8. Second ventral segment tuberculate 9 



Secoud ventral flat, not tuberculate (mesopleura? and middle-seg- 

 ment not at all yellow) plana. 



9. Intermediate and posterior femora broadly emarginate or strongly 



incurved (second ventral segment bituberculate ; pulvilli dis- 

 tinct) femorata. 



Intermediate and hind femorara not emarginate or incurved . 10 



10. Second ventral segment with two small tubercles ; femora above 



black at base only ; pulvilli small, indistinct .... pulchella. 



Second ventral segment with a single large tubercle; femora above 



with a black stripe ; pulvilli distinct tuberculata. 



11. Second ventral segment flat, not tuberculate ; antenna? as usual, 



not long. Length, 12-13 mm pictifrons. 



Second ventral segment with two large acute tubercles ; antenna? 

 unusually long and slender. Length 18 mm. . . . tenuicornis. 



12. Fore legs with the tarsal comb but feebly developed ; second ven- 



tal segment bituberculate 13 



Fore legs with an extremely long and distinct tarsal comb ; second 

 ventral segment flat, not tuberculate ; front narrow . . . pulla. 



13. Head and thorax rather densely clothed with long hair ; dorsulum 



with two central yellow spots vttlosa. 



Head and thorax not densely pubescent, sparsely so ; dorsulum 

 without central yellow spots usitata. 



1. Monedula signata Linne. 



Vespa signata'Linne, Systema Nat., Ed. X, Vol. I, p. 574. 

 Bembex signata Fabricius, Syst. Ent., p. 3(31. 

 Apis vespiformis De Geer, Meinoires, III, p. 570, PL 28. f. 3. 

 Bembex vespiformis Olivier, Encycl. Meth., IV, p. 290, PI. 106. f. 18. 

 Vespa diadema Christ. Naturg. d. Ins., p. 223, PI. 19, f. 7. 

 Jfouedu/a signata Lepeletier de St. Fargeau, Hym. Ill, p. 283. 



This is the commonest tropical species and is recorded from Mex- 



*M. mamillata Handl., which I have not seen, may be identical with emar- 

 ginata. 




866 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



ico and the West Indies as far south as the Argentine Republic. I 

 have a specimen before me, the property of the U. S. National 

 Museum, from Napa County, California, collected by D. W. 

 Coquillett. 



2. Monedula Carolina Fabr. 



Bembex Carolina Fabricius, Ent. Syst., II, p. 249. 

 Monedula Carolina Latreille, Hist. Nat., XIII, PI. 102, f. 3. 



Occurs from Pennsylvania and New Jersey to Florida and Texas; 

 Illinois. 



3. Monedula speciosa Cress. 



Monedula speciosa Cresson, Proc. Ent. Soc, Philadelphia, IV, p. 470, 2 ■ 

 Monedulaformosa Cresson, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 221, $ 9 • 

 Monedula speciosa Patton, Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, V, p. 361. 



Colorado; Kansas; Texas. 



4. Monedula serrata Hdl. 



Monedula serrata Handlirsch, Sitzb. Akad. Wissen, Wien, Math.-naturw. 

 Classe, Abth. I, XCIX. p. 143, $ . 



Georgia. I have not seen the $ , the sex described by Hand- 

 lirsch, but a 2 specimen before me evidently belongs to this species. 

 It agrees with the description of the $ , except of course lacking the 

 $ sexual characters, and the base of clypeus is black. This latter 

 character may vary, however. 



5. Monedula pulchella Cress. 



Monedula pulchella Cresson, Proc. Ent. Soc, Pbila., IV, p. 471, $ O • 

 Monedula minutula Handlirscb, 1. c, p. 148, J . 



Colorado; Texas; Kansas; Utah; California. A slenderer species 

 than pictifrons which it resembles but the wings longer. Judging 

 from the description, minutula is identical with pulchella. 



6. Monedula tuberculata n. sp. Plate XIV, f. 8. 



$. — Similar to pulchella. Black; inner and posterior orbits, 

 inferior portion of front, clypeus except narrow line at base, labrum, 

 mandibles except apex, line on pronotum including the tubercles, 

 sides of prothorax, spot on mesopleurse, postero-lateral angles of 

 dorsulum, large spot on each side of scutellum narrowed internally, 

 metanotum, middle segment above and on sides more or less, legs, the 

 coxse, trochanters and femora variegated with black, however, large 

 spot on each side of the first dorsal segment, a band on the remaining 

 dorsals, that on the second broadest and deeply emarginate anteriorly 

 in the middle, the others rather sinuated, and all the ventrals with 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



a band, bright yellow; head and thorax more hirsute than in pul- 

 chella; wings hyaline, nearly twice the length of thorax. Antennae 

 black, the scape and following three or four joints beneath, yellow, 

 apical joints of flagellum somewhat curved, particularly the last; 

 eyes, if anything, diverging above; dorsulum and scutelluni closely 

 and confluently punctured, the middle segment above and behind 

 somewhat more coarsely; last joint of fore tarsi broadly dilated; 

 pulvilli small, though discernible; medial femora serrate beneath; 

 first joint of medial tarsi strougly curved, and within near base with 

 four stout spines; second ventral segment with a single, large, 

 prominence, which is hirsute; sixth and seventh segments somewhat 

 carinated down the middle; eighth ventral without a discal spine; 

 last dorsal shaped as in fig. 8, Plate XIV. Length 14 mm. 



Nevada. Easily distinguished by the armature of second ventral 

 and shape of last dorsal segment. 

 7. Monedula plana u. sp. Plate XIV, f. 7. 



S . — Black ; inner and posterior orbits, spot before anterior 

 ocellus, inferior portion of front, clypeus, labrum mandibles except 

 apex, scape and following two joints beneath, narrow line on pro- 

 notum, tubercles, spot on each side of scutellum, metanotum, legs, 

 the coxa?, trochanters, and femora variegated with black, however, 

 spot on each side of first dorsal segment, a band on the following 

 dorsals except the last which is spotted, that on segment 2 broadest 

 and all emarginate anteriorly in the middle, the second most 

 deeply, and a spot on each side of ventral segment 2, yellowish ; 

 flagellum pale testaceous beneath; head and thorax sparsely hirsute; 

 wings hyaline, less than twice longer than the thorax. Apical 

 antennal joints more or less curved but not as strongly as in tuber- 

 culoid; eyes, if anything diverging above; dorsulum and scutellum 

 coriaceous, subtilely and indistinctly punctured, the middle segment 

 more strongly ; last joint of fore tarsi not broadly dilated ; pulvilli 

 indistinct; medial femora strongly serrate beneath; first joint of 

 medial tarsi curved, with several strong spines within near the base; 

 second ventral segment flat, unarmed; sixth and seventh not armed; 

 eighth without a discal spine ; last dorsal as in fig. 7, Plate XIV. 

 Length, 14 mm. 



Custer, South Dakota (Aldrich). 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



8. Monedula emarginata Cress. 



Moiiedula emarginata Cresson, Proc. Ent. Soc, Phila., IV, p. 468, $ £ 



Colorado. The head in this species is small, narrower than the 

 thorax, while in the other species it is usually somewhat broader 

 than the thorax. In the £ the medial femora has a sharp carina 

 beneath , which is sometimes more or less serrate. 



9. Monedula femorata u. sp. Plate XIV, fig. 10. 



$. — Black; inner and posterior orbits, spot before anterior ocel- 

 lus, inferior portion of the front, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except 

 apex, scape in front, line on pronotum, tubercles, small spot near 

 tegula? on dorsulum, lateral spot on scutellum, metanotum, irregular 

 spot on mesopleurse extending on the sternum, postero-lateral 

 angles of middle-segment, legs, the coxre, trochanters and femora 

 variegated with black, however, a fascia, narrowly interrupted, on 

 dorsal abdominal segments 1-6, the seventh at apex, and a fascia on 

 ventrals 1-6, yellowish; flagellum, except basal joints which are 

 yellowish testaceous beneath, above black, wings hyaline, not more 

 than one-third longer than the thorax. Eyes diverging a little 

 above ; dorsulum, scutellum and base of middle segment with even, 

 distinct punctures, those beyond base of middle segment coarser; 

 pulvilli distinct ; medial and hind femora strongly emarginate 

 beneath (see fig.) particularly the former; first joint of medial 

 tarsi curved, much broader than usual, not spinose basally; second 

 ventral abdominal segment bituberculate. Length, 12 mm. 

 Jacksonville, Florida (coll. Ashmead). 



10. Monedula pictifrons Sm. 



Monedula pictifrons Smith, Cat. Hym. B. M., IV, p. 335, £ 



Monedula Inermis Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 144, $ 



Virginia; North Carolina; Texas; Missouri; Illinois; Lower 

 California (Handlirsch). I consider Handlirsch's inermis to be the 

 $ of this species. . 



11. Monedula tenuicornis n. sp. 



9 . — Resembles speciosa, but without the U-shaped mark on dor- 

 sulum and the wings nearly one- third longer than in that species. 

 Black; inner and posterior orbits, inferior portion of front, spot 

 before anterior ocellus, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, 

 scape entirely, and the following six or seven joints beneath, pro- 

 thorax almost entirely, tubercles, thorax on sides and beneath, two 

 parallel, longitudinal spots and a transverse one, posteriorly on 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



dorsulum, line on scutellum, nietanotum and on middle-segment 

 above, legs except a small spot on trochanters and a short line on 

 femora, a broad band on dorsal segments of abdomen 1-5 that on 

 first segment strongly emarginate anteriorly in the middle, those on 

 second and third enclosing two approximate black spots, those on 

 fourth and fifth with four emargiuations anteriorly, the posterior 

 margin of all these bands is more or less sinuate, sixth segment 

 yellow apically, ventrals 1-3 entirely and 4-6 with a band, bright 

 yellow ; head and thorax with short, pale pubescence ; wings hya- 

 line, not twice the length of the thorax. Eyes slightly converging 

 above; dorsulum with shallow, confluent punctures, those of the 

 middle segment coarser. Length, 18 mm. 



$ . — Colored like the 9 , but has a greater extent of black on 

 trochanters and femora and thorax, only a lateral spot on dorsulum, 

 the scutellum with two spots, the marks of abdomen separated inter- 

 nally on dorsals 1-6, and those on 1—3 broken into four spots the 

 outer of which are the larger. Antennae long, setaceous, much 

 longer than in any of the other species, the apical joints, especially 

 the last somewhat curved; apical joint of fore tarsi not broadly di- 

 lated; pulvilli distinct; intermediate femora smooth beneath; first 

 joint of intermediate tarsi curved, but not spinose within near the 

 base; second ventral segment with two approximate, elongate 

 tubercles near posterior margin; eighth ventral with a discal spine; 

 last dorsal emarginate at apex. Length 17 mm. 



San Bernardino County, California (Coquillett). Both specimens 

 belong to the U. S. National Museum. The species is remarkable 

 for the long antennas of the male. 



12. Monedula scitula n. sp. 



9 . — Entirely yellow except as follows : a transverse black 

 stripe above and beneath the ocelli ; three longitudinal stripes on 

 dorsulum, the inner of which broadest, largest apically (the dorsu- 

 lum may be described as having a U-shaped, yellow spot), a dark 

 stripe on scutellum anteriorly, one on the middle segment anteriorly 

 and in the middle, and a dark spot anteriorly in the middle on the 

 first and second dorsal abdominal segments, the size of which is 

 variable, that on the second segment being most transverse; antennae 

 (except scape) testaceous above; wings hyaline, long, reaching be- 

 yond apex of abdomen; head and thorax with tolerably sparse, pale 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



hair. Inner eye margins almost parallel; dorsulum and scutellum 

 rather strongly punctured, the punctures separated; punctuation of 

 middle segment closer and confluent; pulvilli large and distinct. 

 Length 10 ram. 



Tucson, Arizona (coll. Ashmead). Three specimens, two of 

 which lack heads. The coloration, size and length of wings will dis- 

 tinguish this species. In shape it reminds one of the bee-genus 

 Epeolus, being short and robust. 



13. Monedula exigua n. sp. 



9 . — Black; inner and posterior orbits, that on the latter extend- 

 ing across the vertex, semicircular spot before anterior ocellus, in- 

 ferior portion of front, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, 

 scape entirely, the following three or four joints beneath, line on 

 pronotum, sides of prothorax more or less, tubercles, a lateral line 

 and two medial longitudino- parallel lines on dorsulum, irregular 

 spot posteriorly on same, line on scutellum posteriorly, broadest at 

 sides, line on metanotum, another on middle segment, mesopleurse 

 and sternum almost entirely, spot on metapleura?, another larger one 

 at posterolateral angles of middle segment, legs, except spot above 

 on coxse, trochanters and base of femora, a broad band on dorsal 

 abdominal segments 1-5, the first deeply emarginate anteriorly in 

 middle, the others much less deeply, but more broadly, last segment 

 apically, and all the ventrals more or less, the third entirely, the 

 second nearly so, bright yellow T ; head and thorax sparsely pubescent, 

 wings hyaline, very short, not one- third longer than thorax; flagel- 

 lum testaceous above. Eyes slightly diverging above; vertex with 

 the depressions less marked than usual; dorsulum and scutellum 

 rather closely, though distinctly punctured, the middle segment more 

 strongly; pulvilli distinct. Length 9 mm. 



Montana. 



14. Monedula villosa n. sp. 



Monedjtla mamillata Fox (non Handlirsch), Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci. (2) IV, 

 p. 10. 



$ . — Head and thorax with very dense and shaggy, pale pubes- 

 cence; first dorsal and ventrals 1 and 2 witli similar but sparser 

 pubescence, the remaining abdominal segments with short semi-erect 

 pubescence. Black; inner and posterior orbits, spot on each side of 

 fore ocellus, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, scape beneath, 

 line on pronotum, sides of prothorax in part, tubercles, two spots, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



diverging posteriorly on dorsulum and another near tegulae, lateral 

 spot on scutellum, line on metanotum, spot on mesopleurae, attenu- 

 ated beneath and extending in the form of a narrow lirTe on the 

 anterior part of the mesosternum, then extending down the medial 

 furrow to the medial coxa?, spot on metapleurae and sides of mid- 

 dle segment, legs except spot on coxae and trochanters, a stripe above 

 on femora and an internal spot on fore and medial tibiae, a band on 

 dorsal segments 1-5, narrow medially and greatly expanded at sides, 

 last segment except a narrow, longitudinal, central line, and the 

 ventrals entirely, yellow; flagellum black, testaceous beneath, the 

 first joint yellow basally; wings hyaline, about twice the length of 

 the thorax. Inner eye-margins parallel; apical antennal joints not 

 curved; dorsulum and scutellum rather strongly punctured, the 

 middle segment more coarsely; first joint of fore tarsi a little dilated, 

 but not so much as in speciosa and tuberculata; pulvilli distinct; 

 medial femora not serrate or dentate beneath; first joint of medial 

 tarsi not at all curved; second ventral segment with two rather 

 large, approximate tubercles near posterior margin, seventh 

 apparently smooth; eighth with a discal spine. Length 11 mm. 



Lower Purissima, Lower California (Chas. D. Haines), April, 

 1889. This is the species doubtfully referred by me to mamillata 

 Hdl., in my first paper on Lower California Hymenoptera. There 

 are besides the specimen before me, two others in the collection of 

 the California Academy of Sciences. ■ 



15. Monedula usitata n. sp. 



9 . — Black; inner and posterior orbits, inferior portion of front, 

 spot before anterior ocellus, clypeus except basal half, labrum, 

 mandibles except apex, scape and following two joints beneath, line 

 on pronotum, tubercles in part, two small longitudinal central spots 

 and a line near tegulae on dorsulum, lateral spots on scutellum 

 almost united internally, line on pronotum and a curved one some- 

 times interrupted on middle segment, postero-lateral angles of 

 middle segment and sometimes a spot on sides, femora except apic- 

 ally and tibiae except within and a facia on dorsal abdominal seg- 

 ments 1-5, yellowish, the fasciae on first three segments broadest and 

 deeply emarginate anteriorly in the middle, the others sinuated, 

 second ventral sometimes with a small lateral spot; last dorsal 

 entirely black; antennae dark testaceous above; head and thorax 

 26 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



very sparsely hirsute, the latter almost nude; wings subhyaline 

 about twice the length of thorax. Inner eye-margins almost 

 parallel; thorax and scutellum coriaceous, indistinctly punctured, the 

 middle segment distinctly though not very strongly so; pulvilli 

 indistinct. Length 12 mm. 



$ . — -Similar to 9 but slenderer and differing in the following 

 points as to coloration: clypeus except narrow anterior margin, 

 black; front rarely spotted before the anterior ocellus; the first five 

 or six joints of flagellum yellowish beneath; yellow of the orbits less 

 prominent; no central spots on dorsulum and no line on middle seg- 

 ment; a narrow yellow spot on the mesopleurse; the coxse and 

 trochanters are more or less yellow, the tarsi entirely so; all the 

 ventral segments are fasciated, and the last dorsal has an apical 

 spot. Apical antennal joints not curved; dorsulum and scutellum 

 strongly and closely punctured, the middle segment a little more 

 strongly; pulvilli large and distinct; medial femora smooth beneath; 

 first joint of medial tarsi not at all curved; second ventral segment 

 with two approximate tubercles near posterior margin, seventh 

 smooth; eighth with a discal spine. Length 10-12 mm. 



Montana; Nevada; Southern California (O. B. Johnson and D. 



W. Coquillett). Resembles very much the 9 of Bembex monodonta. 



16. Monedula pulla Hdl. 



Monedala pulla Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 149, J. 



Southern California (O. B. Johnson and D. W. Coquillett). 

 Whereas usitata resembles the 9 of Bembex monodonta, this 

 species is peculiar for its striking superficial resemblance to the $ 

 of that species. 



The S of pulla is smaller than the 9 (length 10 mm.); apical 

 antennal joints, not at all curved; fore legs with a long tarsal comb 

 as in the 9 ; pulvilli large and prominent; medial femora smooth 

 beneath; first joint of medial tarsi not curved; second ventral seg- 

 ment smooth; not tuberculate; seventh and eighth segments ? 



This species is remarkable for the narrow front, and long tarsal 

 comb of $ . The type of this species has, according to Handlirsch, 

 the clypeus black basally; in the five specimens before me none pre- 

 sents this characteristic, the clypeus being entirely yellow. One speci- 

 men is labelled Georgia, probably erroneously. 1 



1 M. mamillata Hdl., which I have not seen, has been inadvertently 

 omitted from this paper. It seems to be near cmarginata. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



STENIOLIA Say. 



Steniolia Say, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., I, p. 366. 1837. 

 Monedula Cressou (in pt.), Proc. Ent. Soc, Phila., IV. p. 469. 1865. 

 Steniolia Patton, Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, V, p. 364. 1879. 



Females. 



Middle tibiae dilated 2 



Middle tibiae not dilated (markings luteous) duplicata. 



2. Markings of body whitish obliqua. 



" Markings of body luteous." tibialis. 



Males. 



Tibia and first joint of tarsi of medial legs not dilated (markings 



luteous) duplicata. 



Tibia and first joint of tarsi of medial legs distinctly dilated ... 2 



3. Markings of body whitish as is also the pubescence of dorsulum 



and vertex obliqua. 



Markings of body luteous, the pubescence of dorsulum and vertex 

 brownish tibialis. 



1. Steniolia duplicata Prov. 



Steniolia duplicata Proyancher, Add. Hym. Quebec, p. 414, f $ . 



Steniolia scolopacea Handlirsch, Sitzb. Akad. Wissen., Wien., Math.-naturw. 



Classe. Bd. XCVIII, Abth. 1, p. 510, £ $ . 

 Steniolia duplicata Fox, Entom. News, II, p. 195. 



This is, perhaps, our commonest and most variable species. New 

 Mexico (Cockerell); Nevada; Utah; California; Oregon; and Lower 

 California. The spots on the dorsulum may be absent, or enlarged, 

 the curved line on upper surface of middle often broken into spots, 

 or absent entirely; there is frequently a small spot on dorsulum just 

 anterior to the scutellum and the extent of black on femora is vari- 

 able. The markings of the abdomen are tolerably constant, but are 

 subject to some variation and the flagellum varies by having the 

 basal joint beneath only, or all the joints yellowish. 



From Lower California are three males and one female which are 

 on the whole larger than usual and the eyes slightly though dis- 

 tinctly converge to the top; otherwise they agree exactly with scolo- 

 pacea. They may represent a distinct species. 



2. Steniolia obliqua Cress. 



Monedula obliqua Cresson, Proc. Ent. Soc, Pbila., IV, p. 469, O . 

 Steniolia obliqua Cresson, Synopsis, p. 278; Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 511, PL I, f. 

 16, £?. 



Colorado; British Columbia (Handlirsch). 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



3. Steniolia tibialis Hdl. 



Steniolia tibialis Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 513, PL II, f. 1, $ £ . 



Nevada; California (Handlirsch;. I have not seen the female, 

 but three males from Nevada are before me. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIV. 



Fig. 1. Stipes of Genitalia, Bembex similans, 8. 



2. " " " Bembex Spinolce, 8 . 



3. " " " Bembex connexus, 8 . 



4. " " " Bembex Sayi, 8 . 



5. " " " Bembex U-scripta, 8 . 



6. " " " Bembex pruinosa, 8 . 



7. Last dorsal segment, Monedula plana, 8 . 



8. " " " Monedula tuberculata, 8 



9. Intermediate femora, Bembex U-scripta, 8 . 

 10. " " Monedula femorata, 8 . 




1895.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



September 3. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



' ' Description of a new Genus and Species of Cottoid Fishes from 

 Paget Sound," by Edwin Chapiu Starks. 



" New Species of Fungi from various localities," by J. B. Ellis 

 and B. M. Everhart. 



September 10. 

 George H. Horn, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Thirteen persons preseut. 



September 17. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



September 24. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled "Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee, No. 

 2, Birds," by S. N. Rhoads, was pi-esented for publication. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ! 1895. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ZOOLOGY OF TENNESSEE. 

 No. 1, REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



The following is the first of a series of papers treating of the 

 collections of Mammals, Birds, Reptiles and Mollusks made for 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by the writer 

 during a trip through Tennessee, in the months of May and June, 

 1895. 



Entering the northwestern corner of the State April 29th, collect- 

 ing was carried on at the following stations in order of sequence. 



1. Samburg (Wheeling), Obion County; April 30th to May 6th, 

 a small village on the eastern shore of Reelfoot Lake, at the mouth 

 of Indian Creek. This region lies at the foot of the Mississippi 

 Bluff, which makes its nearest approach to the lake at this point, 

 the strip of intervening land on which the village is built being 

 about a quarter of a mile wide. The bluff is precipitous, rising 

 more than 100 feet above the lake in this vicinity, and clothed with 

 fine forests of beech, oak and chestnut, the first largely predominat- 

 ing. 



The bottom lands surrounding the lake increase in extent both 

 north and south of the Indian Creek confluence, and their whole 

 extent, to within a few rods of the bluff, is annually flooded 

 during high water in the Mississippi River. The flora of these 

 bottoms is of the most luxuriant description, immense growths of 

 of cypress, cottonwood, gum and maple fringing the shores and 

 extending in unbroken areas back to the deforested crests of the 

 escarpment. Beneath these is an undergrowth of vines and cane 

 which is almost impenetrable except where the annual brush firing 

 by the farmers and woodsmen has opened a passage way, or the 

 grazing of sheep and cattle and the rooting of swine have destroyed 

 the underbrush. The lake itself is eighteen miles long, its width 

 varying from one-half to three miles, the greatest breadth being 

 directly along a line passing a little north of west through Samburg. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



It covers a region which, prior to the earthquakes of 1811-12, was 

 a heavily timbered swamp traversed by Reelfoot Creek which 

 flowed south into the Mississippi, and was interspersed with numer- 

 ous ponds and bayous. Owing to the convulsions at that period this 

 tract was submerged, partly by the subsidence of the swamp, partly 

 by the filling up of the outlet of the creek, and thousands of acres 

 of forested land were permanently flooded from one to ten feet in 

 depth. The original vigor of this splendid growth is still evidenced 

 by the innumerable stumps and blasted tree trunks which stand in 

 and out of the water in every direction and which render the navi- 

 gation and fishing of these waters so vexatious to a novice, and 

 combiue to make the most weird and impressive bit of scenery to be 

 found along the Mississippi Valley. In such an environment we 

 are not surprised to find animal life abounding in a remarkable 

 degree. 



Collecting at Samburg was confined to the immediate vicinity, 

 but observations and records were made on the route between the 

 lake and Obion and Union City. 



2. Raleigh, Shelby County; April 8th to 14th. A post village 

 located on the banks of Wolf River, nine miles east of Memphis. 

 The hilly uplands which surround the village rise above the allu- 

 vial bottoms and bayous of the river much as the same formation 

 (Bluff Loam or Loess) does at Samburg, and the faunal and floral 

 peculiarities of the two regions are very nearly identical, with per- 

 haps a more obvious austral commingling than is presented at Reel- 

 foot Lake. Short bicycle expeditions of five to ten miles were made 

 into the surrounding country east and west of Raleigh. 



3. Bellevue, Davidson County; May 17th to 24th. A post 

 village on Big Harpeth River, twelve miles south of Nashville. The 

 vicinity of Bellevue lies within the western edge of the fertile 

 central basin of middle Tennessee, the country between it and 

 Nashville closely resembling in soil, topography and faunal and 

 floral features the blue-grass region of Kentucky. The soil is a 

 disintegrated limestone with abundant rocky outcrop of the same 

 and supports fine growths of poplar, walnut, ash, oak, hickory and 

 chestnut. A range of high hills runs east and west between Belle- 

 vue and Nashville separating the two branches of the Harpeth. The 

 mean elevation of this region is from 600 to 700 feet above sea level, 

 its mean depression below the Highland Rim lands lying westward 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



between the central basin and the Tennessee River is from 300 to 

 400 feet. 



Trips were made from Bellevue to Nashville and southward into 

 adjoining parts of Williamson county. 



4. Chattanooga and Sawyer's Springs, Hamilton County; May 

 24th to June 2nd. 



Owing to their proximity, and the fact that my visit to Sawyer's 

 Springs lay within the above dates (May 28th, 29th aud 30th), I 

 include both localities under one division. 



Chattanooga lies between the southern base of Walden's Ridge, 

 belonging to the Cumberland Mountain system, and the northern 

 base of the Lookout Mountain range, on the eastern bank of the 

 Tennessee River. Its elevation above the sea is about 800 feet ; the 

 elevation of Lookout Mountain being 1,600 feet higher, and that of 

 Walden's Ridge about 1,800 feet above the sea. The Tennessee 

 Valley at Chattanooga is much narrowed and circumscribed by the 

 mountains. The bottom lands are very fertile, supporting formerly 

 a heavy growth of poplar, oak, gum, ash and walnut ; among the 

 foothills pines and chestnut oaks are abundant. 



The valley formation is limestone ; that of the mountains lime- 

 stone overlaid by horizontal strata of the coal measures, and topped 

 by the sandstone table-lands which form the Cumberland plateau. 



Sawyer's Springs is a health resort on Walden's ridge, about 

 twelve miles north of Chattanooga. 



Its elevation and sandy soil present us with a marked change in 

 climatic conditions as contrasted with the Tennessee Valley immedi- 

 ately below it. Laurels, rhododendrons and hemlocks fringe the 

 streams; oak, chestnut, holly, juniper and short-leafed pines give 

 the mountains much the aspect of such elevations in northeastern 

 Pennsylvania, and the fauna is of a similar character. 



Walden's Ridge bounds the Tennessee Valley from Chattanooga 

 northwest to and beyond Harrimau, its precipitous walls formiug the 

 eastern escarpment of the Cumberland plateau, its width ranging 

 from five to fifteen miles. Collecting around Chattanooga was 

 greatly facilitated by the use of a bicycle, trips being made to the 

 Georgia line, up the Tennessee, and up the valley on the western side 

 of the river. 



5. Harrimau, Roane County; June 2nd to 5th. 



A town on the east bank of Emory River, near its junction with 




1895.] NAT URAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



Clinch River, situate among; the foothills: vt' the northern extension 

 of Wahlen's Ridge at an elevation of 1,200 feet. The climate and 

 natural productions of this region are much the same as those of the 

 higher hills around Chattanooga. The country around Harrinian is 

 well wooded and some of the highest elevations of the Cumberland 

 range in Tennessee are found to the north and west in Scott and 

 Cumberland counties, Cross Mountain being 3, 300 feet above the sea. 

 A day's trip was made to Clinch River, near Kingston, at the junc- 

 tion of the Clinch and Tennessee rivers. 



6. Allardt, Fentress County ; June 5th to 8th. 



A village on the Cumberland plateau, five miles east of James- 

 town, the county seat. The table land for many miles around 

 Allardt is remarkably level, and divides at this point the drainage 

 north and south into the Cumberland and Tennessee rivers. The 

 soil is rather poor, supporting a growth of oak, chestnut and pine, 

 the latter often monopolizing large tracts. The elevation may be 

 estimated at an average of 1,800 feet. Records were made and 

 some specimens taken on the bicycle trip from Sunbright, Morgan 

 County, to Allardt, and on the return journey from Allardt to Rugby 

 Road, in Scott County. 



7. Kuoxville, Knox County ; June 9th to 14th. 



On the north bank of the Tennessee River, three miles below the 

 junction of the French Broad and Holston Rivers. Owing to its 

 elevation above the sea the mean temperature at Kuoxville is about 

 the same as that of Philadelphia, but the summers are cooler and 

 winters milder. 



The region is very similar to that of parts of the valley of East 

 Tennessee already described, the fauna and flora partaking more 

 decidedly of the Alleghenian elements found in the outlying spurs 

 of the Chilhowee and Bay Mountain ranges on the southwest. 

 Most of the region about Knoxville is fertile, rolling, limestone farm 

 land, with occasional barren outcrops and ridges covered with wood. 

 Several trips to the Holston River, and one up the east bank of that 

 river, in the direction of Swampond Creek, were made. 



8. Johnson City, Washington County; June 15th to 17th. 



A picturesque town among the outlying ridges and foothills of the 

 Great Smoky Mountains, at the junction of the E. T. & W. N. C. 

 Narrow Gauge Railway, leading up into the Smoky Range, with 

 the Southern Railway System. Animal and plant life show a decided 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



admixture of species which abound on the distant mountain sides 

 1,000 feet higher, and some common eastern species not hitherto met 

 with in the State, are recorded. Deciduous forests are the rule, 

 but lowland clearings are often covered with a dense growth of pines. 

 The elevation of Johnson City is not given in any work accessible to 

 me, but approximates 1,400 feet. 



9. Roan Mountain, Carter County; June 18th to 23rd. 



The Tennessee and North Carolina State line forms an acute angle 

 on the summit of Roan Mountain, the northwestern third of the 

 peak belonging to Tennessee. The elevation of the peak above 

 Roan Mountain Station at is base is 3,000 feet — the total elevation 

 being 6,394 feet. Roan Mountain Station is twelve miles from the 

 top of the mountain, and the country lying between these points 

 along the valley and canon of the Doe River formed the field of 

 investigation in this region. On the return journey a walk of 

 thirty miles was taken, down the headwaters of Rock Creek twelve 

 miles, and thence across to the Doe River Valley and Roan Moun- 

 tain Station. This ended the Tennessee trip so far as it related to 

 field work in natural history. 



On the summit of Roan Mountain we have a reproduction, with 

 local variations, of the fauna and flora of the Canadian zone. 



This gives place, at a lower elevation of 4,500 feet to 5,000 feet 

 above the sea, to the deciduous flora of the Alleghenian region with 

 a corresponding change in animal life, and this gradation from the 

 biological conditions of the north to those of the Carolinian fauna is 

 illustrated in a wonderful manner as one descends the mountain and 

 proceeds along the Doe River and valley to Johnson City. The 

 climatic conditions found on the summits of the Appalachian system 

 in this region differ markedly from those found in New England and 

 the Middle States in their greater humidity, due to the frequent pre- 

 cipitation and presence of clouds and fog. To a person who has 

 visited both mountain systems there is a marked resemblance in this 

 respect between the climatic conditions of the southern Alleghenies 

 and those of the Cascade Range in Washington and British Colum- 

 bia, and the fauna and flora of the two show a like differentiation. 

 Another factor which probably has much to do with the peculiar 

 biological features of this region is the equability of temperature. 

 Roan Mountain, for example, being always cool, often cold, but 

 never hot in the sense of the extreme heat to be found in summer 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



among the White Mountains, neither are its plants and animals 

 subjected to those frigid winter temperatures which their New Eng- 

 land congeners must suffer. In consequence there is a correlation in 

 the animal and plant life of these distant localities without identity. 

 In some cases this variation amounts to specific values, in others only 

 subspecific, but in all, owing to their isolation, the habitat is clearly 

 definable. 



Tennessee comprises within its limits an unusually varied topog- 

 raphy, and owing to its proximity in the west to the influence of the 

 Gulf of Mexico by way of the Mississippi, and in the east to the lofty 

 mountain ranges, the State presents a fauna and flora of great diver- 

 sity and unusual interest to the biologist. The greater pait of what 

 is popularly known as West Tennessee is in the Louisianian* fauna, 

 including all the country lying west of a line running north from 

 Lawrenceburg, Lawrence County, to the intersection of the Ken- 

 tucky state line by the Tennessee River. Animals characteristic of 

 this fauna, which rarely, if ever, are found in Middle Tennessee are 

 the two Marsh Hares, Lepus aquations and L. palustris ; a Cotton 

 Rat? Sigmodon ; a small Mole Shrew, Blarina; a large Deer Mouse, 

 Peromyseus; the Swallow-tailed Kite, Eleanoides forficatus ; Missis- 

 sippi Kite, Ictinia mississippiensis ; Snake Bird, Anhinga anhinga ; 

 Prothonotary Warbler, Protonotaria citrea ; Louisiana Tree-frog, 

 Hyla cinerea semifasciata ; Say's Chain Snake, Ophibolus getulus 

 sayi ; Louisiana Triton, Diemyctylus viridescens m&ridionalis ; 

 Cyclops Water Snake, Natrix eyclopion and the Alligator Snapper, 

 Macroclemys lacertina. 



From the western boundary of the Louisianian fauna, as above 

 defined, the whole of Middle and East Tennessee, below an altitude 

 of 3,0U0 feet, is included in the Carolinian fauna. Characteristic 

 animals of this fauna in Tennessee are the Opossum, Didelphys mar- 

 supialis ; Pine Mouse, Microtus pinetorum ; Least Mole Shrew, 



Blarina ? and typical forms of the eastern Deer Mouse, Gray 



Squirrel, Wood Rabbit, and the Gray Fox; also the Acadian 

 Flycatcher, Empidonax acadicus ; Yellow- breasted Chat, Icteria 

 wrens; Kentucky Warbler, Geothlypis formosa ; Blue-winged War- 

 bler, Helminthophila pinus, and Bewick's Wren, Thryothorus 



*Zoogeographic nomenclature used is that of Dr. J. A. Allen. Bull. Amer. 

 Mus. N. Hist., IV, Art. XIV, 1892. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



beivickii. Among reptiles may be mentioned the Pine-tree Lizard, 



Sceloporus undulatus ; Nebulous Toad, Engy stoma corolinense ; Pilot 



Snake, Coluber obsoletiis, and Box Tortoise, Terrapene Carolina. 

 Many of these are found in the Louisianian fauna, but attain their 



maximum development and numbers in the Carolinian. 



Elevations between 3,000 and 5,000 feet in the Cumberland 

 Plateau and the Unaka and Great Smoky Mountain systems of East 

 Tennessee, are in the Alleghenian fauna. Some of the representa- 

 tive animals of this area are the Red Squirrel, Seiurus hudsonius ; 

 Mole Shrew, Blarina talpoides ; Brown Shrew, Sorex personatus ; 

 Canadian Warbler, Sylvania canadensis; Least Fly- catcher, Emp/i- 

 donax minimus ; Wilson's Thrush, Turdus fuscescens ; Dusky Sala- 

 mander, Amblystoma jejfersonianum ; Black Salamander, Desmog- 

 nathus nigra, and northern Spring Frog, Rana clamitans melanota. 



On the highest mountain tops, in the evergreen timber belt, above 

 5,000 feet elevation, are found a few animals whose position belongs 

 more strictly to the Canadian than the Alleghenian fauna. These 



are the Mountain Deer Mouse, Peromyscus 1 Great Red-backed 



Vole, Evotomys carolinensis; Bog Vole, Synaptomys t ; Winter 



Wren, Troglodytes hiemalis ; Golden- crowned Kinglet, Regulus 

 satrapa, and Common Crossbill, Loxia c. minor. A few of the Alle- 

 ghenian reptiles extend into the Canadian fauna to the very summit 

 of Roan Mountain. 



The following annotated list of the reptiles and amphibians of Ten- 

 nessee includes only those species collected by me during the recent 

 trip. 



To this is added a list of twenty-five species, not observed by me, 

 of which there exist authentic records as having been observed or 

 taken in the State. I have also appended a l*et of twenty-nine spe- 

 cies of which we have no Tennessee record, but which are likely 

 to be found there. 



There is no area of similar extent in the eastern United States, 

 whose zoology is so little known as that of Tennessee. State geo- 

 logical surveys, with the exception of those of Gerard Troost, pub- 

 lished between the years 1835 and 1838, have made no attempt to 

 treat of the fauna and flora of Tennessee, nor can we find in zoolog- 

 ical literature anything which can be said to have reference to 

 the State in a faunal sense. I have been aided in making out the 

 list of additional recorded species of reptiles and amphibians by 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



reference to Dr. Holbrook's Herpetology, and to the check- lists of 

 Yarrow and Cope of the collections in the National Museum. 



I have largely adopted the nomenclature and sequence of orders 

 and genera used by Professor Garman in his valuable Synopsis of the 

 Reptiles and Amphibians of Illinois. The code of nomenclature of 

 the American Ornithologist's Union is responsible for any apparent 

 idiosyucracies of names or spelling that may appear. 



The collection numbers 270 specimens, classed as follows : Che- 

 Ionia, 45; Sauria, 27; Ophidia, 46; Anura, 63; Urodela, 89. 



So far as I have been able to discover, the whole number of 

 species and subspecies of Reptilia and Amphibia recorded from 

 Tennessee is 77, of which 52 are represented in the collection; besides 

 these there are about 30 species which are likely to be found in the 

 State limits, making the approximate number of Tennessee species 

 and subspecies 107. 



REPTILIA. 

 ■ Order CHELONIA. 

 Family EMYIDJE. 



Genus TEBRAPENE Menem. 

 1. Terrapene Carolina (L.). Box Tortoise. 



Not observed in west Tennessee but found in the middle and 

 eastern districts and abounding among the foothills of the Cumber- 

 laud and Great Smoky mountain ranges. 



Mr. W. E. Taylor bus recently 1 suggested that Kentucky and 

 Tennessee specimens of this animal may possibly be entitled to rank 

 as a variety of T. Carolina. 



If by "variety" a geographic race or subspecies is meant, the 

 five specimens recorded below show that such a conclusion would be 

 untenable, the individual variations of Tennessee Box Tortoises being 

 as numerous and undefinable as those of a like series from the 



Middle States. 



A large specimen from Chattanooga has an ebony black plastron; 

 the unkeeled carapace is of the same ground, with numerous spots 

 and small irregular figures of gold scattered over each plate; mar- 

 ginal plates each with a large orange spot; top of head and anterior 

 surfaces of fore legs yellow spotted. Two younger specimens from 



1 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVII 1895, p. 578-9. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Bellevue are of the orange and black type with yellow and black 

 plastron and strongly marked keel, typical of eastern examples of 

 same age, and the same color pattern is exhibited by the adult 

 specimens from Johnson City, in which the keel has almost disap- 

 peared. Specimens — Bellevue, 2; Chattanooga, 1; Johnson City, 2. 



Genus PSETJDEMYS Gray. 



2. Pseudemy3 elegans (Maxim. Wied). Wied's Turtle. 



Very abundant at Reelfoot Lake as attested by numerous shells 

 lying about the marshes. The young, from one to two inches in 

 diameter, were swarming in the tributaries of the lake. In all of 

 these the red neck-stripe was strongly marked. Of numerous large 

 turtles seen in the Wolf River bottoms near Raleigh some were 

 probably of this species. Specimens — Samburg, 2 ad. ; 15juv. 



3. Pseudemys concinna (Le C. ). Le Conte's Turtle. 



A specimen from the Wolf River has remarkably long, slender 

 nails on the three inner toes of the fore feet, the fourth being quite 

 short. 



Specimens — Raleigh, 1 ad.; Samburg, 1 juv. 



Family KINOSTERWIDJE. 

 Genus KINOSTERNON Spix. 



4. Kinosternon pensylvanicum (Gmel.). Mud Turtle. 



One adult specimen from Reelfoot Lake is not distinguishable 

 from the typical eastern examples of this species. 

 Specimen — Samburg, 1. 



Genus AROMOCHELYS Gray. 



5. Aromochelys odoratus (Latr. ). Musk Turtle. 

 Specimens — Samburg, 1; Chattanooga, 1. 



6. 1 ? Aromochelys carinatus (Gray). Carinated Musk Turtle. 



A Musk Turtle collected in Emory River, at Harriman, Roane 

 County, is very doubtfully referred to this species. 



Description — Carapace strongly keeled, convex, rounded and 

 serrate posteriorly, and covered throughout with imbricated plates. 

 Posterior borders of marginal and dorsal plates acute, strongly pro- 

 duced, forming a serrate dorsal and posterior outline. Plastron 

 subtriangular, widely truncate anteriorly, narrowed and ernarginate 

 ventrally. Minute gular plate scarcely projecting beyond an- 

 terior margins of postgulars, the latter squarely cut in front, 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



their lateral apices each forming the apex of an ohtuse angle 

 whose anterior side is formed by the transverse anterior face 

 of the postgular and the oblique lateral face of the pectoral plate. 

 Pectoral plates rhomboidal, their median suture longer than the 

 anterior (pecto-gular) suture and their posterior (pecto- abdominal) 

 suture equalling the length of the lateral margin of the plate. 

 Abdominal plates rhomboidal, transversely elongate, their lateral 

 margins slightly convex, posterior margins truncate. Upper man- 

 dible emarginate with a well defined hook. A triangular emargi- 

 nate rostral shield reaches median line of orbits. A pair of barbels 

 at symphysis of lower jaw; the cervical folds and tubercles nearly 

 obsolete. Crown and rostrum olive; black-spotted; rest of dermal 

 surface bluish- white; the upper head and neck streaked and spotted 

 with irregular black lines. Two black bands pass back from the 

 eye across and above tympanum and join on foreneck, reachiug 

 thence to forearm; continuous black stripes above and below this 

 reach from the temples and base of mandibles to base of neck. Su- 

 perior surface of legs and feet and tail irregularly marbled with 

 black. Plastron, mandibles and claws olive yellow. Plates of 

 carapace olive, with black margins. The skull, viewed laterally, 

 shows a depressed interorbital, convex frontal and depressed occipital 

 profile. 



Measurements: Length of plastron (median) 41 mm.; greatest 

 width of bridge (interaxillar width), 35.5; width of carapace 

 between anterior margins of seventh pair of marginal plates, 53. 

 Greatest length of skull, 23; greatest width of skull, 14.5. 



The specimen above described was found dead in the Emory 

 river, and had evidently just been thrown there by one of the nu- 

 merous urchins who were fishing near the place. The anterior half of 

 the carapace was missing. The animal was apparently two-thirds 

 grown. 



A comparison with several alcoholic specimens of A. odoratui of 

 the same age, taken near Philadelphia by Dr. Jos. Leidy, shows so 

 many decided peculiarities in the Tennessee example that I have been 

 almost induced to give it a new name. 



The most prominent of these is the truncated shape of the plas- 

 tron and the rhombic outlines of the abdominal and pectoral plates, 

 the former wholly lacking the deeply cleft emargination of the axil- 

 lary border. The shape of the skull is quite different, and the 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



carinated and serrate carapace and peculiar coloration very marked. 



From A. carinatus it is distinguished by its dermal coloration, 

 though it resembles it in the imbrication of the carapace. 



Not having specimens of carinatus I am unable to make the 

 necessary comparisons, but I find Professor Boulenger's diagnosis of 

 that species, taken from Gray's types, to correspond too closely to the 

 Harriman specimen to warrant naming it anything else. Professor 

 Garman states that carinatus has no stripes on sides of head, which 

 my specimen has. The southwestern habitat of carinatus is another 

 reason for suspicion that the Harriman turtle is distinct. 



Family CHELYDRIME. 



Genus CHELYDRA Schweigger. 



7. Chelydra serpentina (L.). Snapping Turtle. 



This species abounds at low altitudes throughout the State. 

 Specimeus — Samburg, 6juv. ; Johnson City, 1 ad. 



Family TRIONYCHID^J. 



Genus ASPIDONECTES Wagler. 



8. Aspidonectes spiniferus (LeS. ). Soft Shelled Turtle. 

 Very abundant in West Tennessee. 

 Specimens — Samburg, 1 half-grown; lOjuv. 



Order SAURIA. 



Family IGXJAjSTIDJE. 

 Genus SCELOFORUS Wiegmann. 



9. Sceloporus undulatus (Bosc. Daud.). Brown Swift, Tree Lizard. 

 Represented all over the State below an elevation of 3,000 feet. 

 Specimens — Samburg, 3 ad; Raleigh, 3 ad; Sawyer's Springs, 4 



ad ; Harriman, 1 ad ; Allardt, 1 ad; Knoxville, 1 ad. 



Family TEIDJE. 

 Genus CNEMIDOPHORUS Wagler. 



10. Cnemidophorus sexlineatus (L. ). Six-lined Lizard. 



This active lizard was numerous in the suburbs of Chattanooga 

 along railroad embankments. 



I saw none elsewhere and was unable to capture any. 



Family SCINCIDJE. 

 Genus EUMECES Wiegmann. 



11. Eumeces fasciatus (L>). Blue-tailed Lizard, Scorpion. 



I found this species in the western lowlands only. 




Proc.Acad.Nal Sci.Phila.1895. 



PI ate X. 



WHO Slieppard.de] ■-- Lit] 



BALDWIN ON ACHATINELLA. 





Proc Acad Nat .Sci.Phila 1895. 



Plate X 



4 



41 



% 



42 



51 



33 



34 



35 



NtfS ^ 



^3 



56 



oheppard, del e.t Lith 



BALDWIN ON ACHATINELLA. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. I895. 



Plate XI 



i 





□DDDDDDDg 



KELLER ON PELTANDRA. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phi la. , 1895. 



Plate XIII 



MOORE ON FRIDERICIA. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1895. 



Piate XIV. 



FOX ON BEMBICINI, 





1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



All the color variations defined by Professor Garman 1 are found 

 in the series collected. The " Scorpion " is well known and much 

 dreaded by the people of Tennessee. 



Specimens — Samburg, 4 juv., 1 ad; Raleigh, 3 juv. , 2 ad. 



Genus OLIGOSOMA Girard. 



12. Oligosoma laterale (Say). Ground Swift. 



Distribution identical with that of Sceleporus undulatus. Abun- 

 dant. 



Specimens- — Raleigh, 3 ad; Sawyer's Springs, 1 juv. ad. 



Order OPHIDIA. 



Family COLUBRIDJE. 



Genus THAMNOPHIS Fitzinger. 



13. Thamnophis ordinatus (L.). Common Garter Snake. 



Very few specimens of this genus were met with. A specimen 

 of typical (?) ordinatus was taken on the Cumberland plateau near 

 Clear Fork Creek in the northern corner of Morgan County, but it 

 escaped from my pocket. A small ii^ividual in bad state of pre- 

 servation was examined at Samburg and thrown away. 



Specimens — Samburg, 1 juv. ad. 



14. Thamnophis ordinatus obscurus (Cope). Plain Garter Snake. 



A large garter snake which I found in a mutilated condition on 

 the road from Cloudland to Roan Mountain Station is doubtfully 

 referred to this variety. It has nineteen rows of scales and seven 

 labials, and was originally about 30 inches long and an inch in 

 diameter at the thickest part. The color of the back is a uniform 

 greenish bronze without spots or lines saving a yellowish vertebral 

 stripe covering the median row and half of each of the two adjoining 

 rows of dorsal scales. The gastrostegal scales are of a uniform 

 deep greenish azure hue. The head is dark bronze without mark- 

 ings. 



Specimen: Base of Roan Mt. (3,500 ft.), Carter Co., 1 ad. 



Genus NATRIX Laurenti. 



15. Natrix sipedon (L.). Spotted Water Snake. 



The series of smaller water snakes from Reelfoot Lake plainlv 

 demonstrates that the so-called " varieties" fasciatus and rhombifer 



1 Kept. & Amphib. of Ills. p. 258-9. 



27 




388 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



have no correlation with faunal or geographic conditions, but are the 

 result of individual variation, of age, and, in some instances, of sex 

 and season. No specimens of "variety" erythrogaster were taken 

 but the same remarks are undoubtedly applicable to that phase also. 

 Strictly speaking, these names have no place in nomenclature save as 

 pure synonyms of sipedon, the first name applied by Linnaeus to this 

 species. As trinomials they are inapplicable, for the same reason, 

 and the sooner herpetologists are willing to confine the use of trino- 

 mials to geographic races of constant and definable characters the 

 better it will be for that branch of science. In the case of N. sipedon 

 the use of these varietal names even in the liberal sense of a color 

 phase is objectionable, as there are innumerable intermediate varia- 

 tions between the forms so designated which defy classification and 

 which are as fully entitled to varietal rank as those already pro- 

 posed. An instance of this is exhibited by one of the Samburg 

 specimens which so closely resembled a blacksnake that I had origi- 

 nally put it in the same jar with a Bascanion from that locality. This 

 specimen, apart from its color, is a typical N. sipedon. In life it 

 was dull black over the whole upper surface, below clear white with 

 fine mottling and shading of steel blue across the bases of the 

 gastrosteges. There are no traces of spots or bands above, either on 

 the outer dermal covering or on the portions of the underlying skin 

 which have been exposed by handling. Prof. Garman mentions that 

 sometimes the upper colors are uniform, from which I infer he means 

 without spots, but Prof. Cope 1 makes no mention of such a phase. 

 The whiteness of the lower parts in the Samburg specimen seems in- 

 inconsistent with the idea suggested to me by Mr. A. E. Brown, that 

 it is an example of melanism. It may be stated in this connection that 

 Mr. Brown, who has perhaps seen and handled more of these snakes 

 than any one in America, had never seen a black one before. See, 

 however, Tropidonotus niger of Holbrook. 



Of the specimens from middle and east Tennessee all belong to the 

 sipedon- fasciatus types, some with the dorsal bauds continuous on the 

 sides. In one from Walden's Ridge some of the dorsal bands are 

 continuous, interspersed by large quadrate lateral blotches alter- 

 nately distributed on either side with their upper corners meeting 

 along the vertebral line. 



1 Chars. & Vars. Snakes N. A., Proc. N. Mus., XIV, 1892. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3K9 



Two specimens from the Nolachucky and Tennessee Rivers are 

 alike in their rusty olive upper shades and orange- yellow bellies 

 finely spotted with sparse black dots. In one of these the dark 

 dorsal blotches are rhombiform and confluent; in the other they are 

 square, separated by light, transverse bands and alternated along the 

 sides by smaller squares of the same color. In another specimen 

 from the Nolachucky the general appearance is similar to these but 

 the belly is white, nearly spotless anteriorly but darkly blotched and 

 tesselated with black, distally. The dorsal pattern is a curious mix- 

 ture of those exhibited by the two specimens described in the pre- 

 ceding paragraph. Young specimens from Bellevue and Roan 

 Mountain show similar inconsistencies with any popular or scientific 

 classification. 



Specimens: Samburg, 6 ad. ; Bellevue, 2 juv. ; Sawyer's Springs, 

 2 ad.; Harriman, 1 juv.; Knoxville, 1 ad.; near Greeneville, 

 (Nolachucky Riv.), 2 ad. ; Doe River (4,000 ft.), 1 juv. 



16. Natrix cyclopion (Dum. Bibr.). Cyclops Water Snake. 



Four specimens of this huge water snake from Samburg are 

 remarkably uniform in coloration. The upjier ground is dark olive. 

 Beginning at the base of the skull irregular squarish blotches of 

 black alternating with patches of the ground color extend almost to 

 the end of the tail and occupy the middle eight rows of dorsal scutes. 

 On the sides, opposite the olive dorsal squares and touching the 

 corner of the black dorsal squares are squares of the same size and 

 color reaching to and invading the abdominal scutes. The whole 

 effect is a regular checker-board pattern. The lower head and neck 

 are yellow, unspotted. Remainder of lower parts becoming paler 

 yellow distally and increasingly blotched with alternating double 

 and treble rows of rounded spots on the bases of the gastrosteges 

 until at the ventral region they assume a checker-work pattern 

 similar to that of the back. The three largest specimens have 

 twenty- seven dorsal scale rows, the smallest, twenty-five. The largest 

 specimen was nearly five feet long and contained two cat-fish, one of 

 which would weigh a pound and a half and whose pectoral spines 

 protruded through the skin of the snake nearly an inch on either 

 side of the abdomen. 



This species was abundant on the shores of Reelfoot Lake and 

 its large, triangular head, thick body and similar color pattern 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



prevent its being distinguished by the natives of that locality from 

 the deadly moccasin, with which they almost invariably confound it. 

 The original spelling of the specific name for this species, cyclopion, 

 should be adhered to. 



Specimens: Samburg, 3 ad.; 1 juv. 



17. Natrix leberis (L.). Seven-striped Water Snake. 



Not seen except in the central basin. In a large specimen from 

 Bellevue there are no black dorsal stripes. The back is uniform 

 olive brown with a pale whitish stripe along margins of outer dorsal 

 scutes, succeeded by a blackish stripe on edges of abdominal scutes 

 which is distinct from the next yellow stripe anteriorly, but is 

 merged ventrally with the inner black stripe of belly. The median, 

 yellow, inferior stripe disappears on the abdomen, and wholly fades 

 in the black of the ventral and caudal regions. This results in the 

 diminution of the pectoral pattern of five light and four dark stripes 

 to an abdominal striation of two obscure light lateral lines, and an 

 unbroken intervening dark area formed by the confluence of the 

 seven light and dark median stripes of the pectoral region into a 

 single band of black. Two young, taken with this specimen, 

 show faint vertebral and costal stripes, and in all other respects 

 are normal. The above description seems to show an approach to 

 grahami, but its nineteen dorsal scale rows and color pattern are 

 nearer leberis. Its peculiarities lend some color to the idea that 

 grahami is not specifically separable from leberis, and Prof. Cope's 

 diagnosis of the two (Proc. Nat. Mus., XIV, p. 667) shows, when 

 compared with that of Prof. Garman (Rept. & Amphib. Ills., p. 

 272), that their characters are quite variable, and this, too, in the 

 direction of each other." 



Specimens — Bellevue, 1 ad., 2 juv. ; Richland Creek near Nash- 

 ville, 1 juv. 



Genus OPHEODRYS Fitzinger. 



18. Opheodrys aestivus (L.). Green Summer Snake. 



Reported from all over the State, but only seen by me on the 

 Cumberland plateau in Scott and Fentress counties. It is probable 

 most of the "Green Snakes" of east Tennessee are Liopeltis 

 vernalis (De Kay-Harl.), none of which were taken. 



Specimens — 3 m. W. Rugby Road, Scott County, 1 juv.; 8 m. E. 

 Allardt, 1 ad. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Genus BASC ANION Baird, Girard. 



19. Bascanion constrictor (L.). Black Snake. 

 Fairly abundant in sparsely settled districts. 

 Specimens — Sam burg, 1 ad. ; Bellevue, 1 ad. 



Genus COLUBER Linnaeus. 



20. Coluber obsoletus Say. Pilot Snake. 



I found this the most abundant snake throughout the State. The 

 large specimen from Fentress County has only twenty- three rows of 

 dorsal scales, all the others have twenty-five, bringing the average 

 far below the normal number for this species, which is never les-s 

 than twenty- five, and often reaches twenty-nine rows. In the twent) - 

 five-rowed specimen the prevailing color is black, with slight 

 marbling of gray above. The supralabials and anterior lower 

 scutes are white, becoming heavily blotched with alternating 

 quadrate spots of black on the belly. The lower caudal region is 

 quite black. The dorsal color pattern is rhomboidal, and there is a 

 tendency to striation in the gray lateral markings of the fore part of 

 the body. The specimen was nearly five feet long. It is plainly 

 referable to the form described by Holbrook as Coluber alleghani- 

 ensis. A young specimen from the same locality has the same color 

 pattern, but is much lighter. 



Three specimens from Samburg exhibit very instructive char- 

 acters. The smallest, a half grown specimen, has a gray -black 

 ground with a black dorsal row of separated rhomboid blotches 

 and a similar row of blotches on each side which are alternate 

 to the dorsal ones, but do not touch them. The belly is white, 

 with alternating tesserae of black spots on either side in short long- 

 itudinal rows from three to five scutes in length, and one-eighth to 

 one-sixteenth of an inch in width. Another large specimen is 

 similar, but darker, the dorsal blotches less defined, and the lateral 

 ones merged into a dark longitudinal band with a superior narrower 

 band of gray traversing almost the entire length. The under side 

 is white mottled with dusky anteriorly, but with a continuous 

 median light stripe to tip of tail. It is intermediate between alle- 

 gheniensis and quadrivittatus. A large Chattanooga specimen is 

 intermediate between the Allardt and Samburg examples. No speci- 

 mens of the very dark form of typical obsoletus were seen, though I 

 examined several other Samburg specimens which were not pre- 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



served. A study of Professor Boulenger's diagnosis of this species 1 

 corroborates my own observations and belief that individuals which 

 may be severally classed under the varietal synonyms alleghenien- 

 sis, lindheimeri, and spiloides may be found associated in both Caro- 

 linian and Austroriparian districts. As in the case of Natrix sipedon 

 these facts defy any attempt to define geographical races of obsoletus 

 or to apply names to them in the trinomial sense. 



Ophidians are not subservient to the same fixed laws of geographic 

 variation which apply to birds and mammals, and which have 

 enabled us to define with scientific exactness the faunal areas over 

 which they are distributed, to designate these races by trino- 

 mials, and even to predict the character of sub- specific variations in 

 a given area upon our knowledge of the physiographic and climatic 

 conditions there obtaining. Though recent attempts to classify the 

 North American Reptilia and Batrachia by the code of trinomial 

 nomenclature adopted by the American Ornithologists' Union has 

 in many cases been a failure, it is not improbable that when reptiles 

 are collected in large series, and at different seasons from continu- 

 ous areas of country we may be able in most cases to define geogra- 

 phic races on structural characters quite as constant as the superficial 

 ones afforded us by sub-species of birds and mammals. 



Specimens — Samburg, 2 ad., 1 juv. ; Chattanooga, 1 ad.; Allardt, 

 1 juv.; 1 ad. 



Genus OPHIBOLUS Baird, Girard. 



21. Ophibolus triangulus (Daud.). King Snake, Milk Snake. 



The only specimen taken has twenty- one dorsal scales and, in 

 nearly all minutiae, corresponds to Boulenger's description of trian- 

 gulus. It seems desirable and proper that these characters should 

 be considered sufficient to specifically separate this snake from the 

 doliatus of Linnaeus. In doing this Prof. Garman has made the 

 curious blunder of using the name doliatus of Baird and Girard 

 for a variety of triangulus. 



Specimen: Bellevue, 1 ad. 



22. Ophibolus getulus sayi (Holbr. ). Chain Snake. 



The only specimen is the dark phase of sayi with minute dots 

 on a black ground and a heavily blotched yellowish belly. The 

 distinctions between typical getulus of the east Carolinian district 



1 Cat. Snakes B. Mus., II, 1894, pp. 50, 51. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



and sayi of the west are so constant as to deserve trinomial recog- 

 nition. 



Specimen: Samburg, 1 ad. 



Genus HETERODON Beauvais, Latreille. 



23. Heterodon platyrhinus Latr. Hog-nosed Snake. 



Of the three Samburg specimens one adult is noteworthy in hav- 

 ing the body and tail a uniform grayish olive above and ashy 

 white below, without markings. The head and neck have the nor- 

 mal black markings. 



Specimens: Samburg, 2 ad. , 1 juv. 



Genus CARPHOPHIS Gervais. D'Orbigny. 



24. Carphophis amoenus (Say). Ground Snake. 



In the Raleigh specimen there are no internasal scutes. In one 

 from Sawyer's Springs the right internasal is partly developed 

 and in the other both internasals are present. 



Specimens: Raleigh, 1 ad.; Sawyer's Springs, 2 ad. 



Family CROTALID^ffi. 

 Genus CROTALUS Linnaeus. 



25. Crotalus horridus L. Timber Rattlesnake. 



I did not actually meet with this snake, but secured the rattle 

 of a specimen killed near Samburg during my stay. They are nu- 

 merous in West Tennesseee. 



Genus AGKISTRODON Beauvais. 



26. Agkistrodon contortrix (L. ). Copperhead. 



This snake is abundant in the western half of the State. Two 

 specimens were caught in the runways of mice in the small 

 "Cyclone" traps which were used for trapping mammals. This 

 would indicate that small rodents are a favorite food of the Cop- 

 perhead and are systematically pursued in their burrows. 



Specimens: Samburg, 2 ad.; Raleigh, 1 ad.; Sawyer's Springs, 

 1 juv. 



27. Agkistrodon piscivorus (Lacep.). Water Moccasin. 



Though the Moccasin is accounted abundant by the people of 

 Reelfoot Lake, I did not secure or positively recognize more than 

 one specimen. 



Specimen : 1, half-grown. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895- 



AMPHIBIA. 



Order ANURA. 



Family BANID^. 



Genus RANA Linnseus. 



28. Rana pipiens Sclireber. Leopard Frog. 



The small series at my disposal prevents any discussion of the 

 supposed characters of the subspecies recognized by Prof. Cope in 

 his Batrachia of North America. The inconstancy of some of 

 these characters, however, is patent enough and the multiplication 

 of new trinomials quite unwarranted. 



Specimens: Saraburg, 1 ad.; Raleigh, 2 ad.; Chattanooga, 1 juv. 



29. Bana palustris LeC. Pickerel Frog. 

 Only found in east Tennessee. 



Specimens: Harriman, 1 ad. ; 1 juv. ; Roan Mt., (3,500 ft.) 1 ad. ; 



1 juv. 



30. Rana olami tans Bosc Mss., Sonn., Latr. Southern Spring Frog. 



The most abundant of the genus throughout the State. 

 Specimens: near Bellevue, 3 juv. ad.; Chattanooga, 1 ad. ; Har- 

 riman, 1 ad. 



31. Rana clamitans melanota (Eaf. ). Northern Spring Frog. 



Two large frogs from a spring on the summit of Roan Moun- 

 tain and within a few yards of the Tennessee State line, in Mitchell 

 County, North Carolina, showed such striking differences from 

 clamitans of western Tennessee that I was inclined to consider them 

 a distinct species. Similar specimens were seen on the banks of Doe 

 River during the ascent of the mountain, but none were secured. 

 The Roan Mountain specimens are almost precisely in color and 

 measurements like Holbrook's figure of Rana horiconensis from 

 Lake George and without doubt represent the same phase of vari- 

 ation from the typical southern clamitans 1 which we find in that 

 species in the northern States and Canada. 



Dr. Holbrook compares his horiconensis with fontinalis 

 {clamitans) remarking on its size and color, and then says it cannot 

 be the Rana melanota, " as it wants the 'yellow streak on the sides 

 of the head.'" 



1 The type locality is Charleston, South Carolina. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Rafinesque's description (Annals of Nature, 1820, p. 5) is as 

 follows : 



" 25. Ranaria (Rana L) melanota. Back olivaceous black, a yellow 

 streak on the sides of the head, chin, throat and inside of the legs 

 whitish, with black spots; belly white, without spots. A pretty 

 frog, living in Lake Champlain and Lake George; vulgar name 

 Black Frog : total length two and a half inches. Eyes large, iris 

 gilt violet. The anterior feet have four free toes, and the hind feet 

 five palmated ones." 



There is little doubt that Rafinesque had in hand the same large, 

 dark variety of clamitans which Holbrook had ; the yellow streak 

 on the side of the head (which is faintly developed in the figure of 

 horiconensis and which is seen in the Roan Mountain frogs as an 

 irregular whitish yellow stripe from the nostril under the eye to the 

 angle of the mouth) is not a valid objection to this view. The fact 

 that Holbrook' s type also came from Lake George, and that the 

 name of "Black Frog" is applicable to it, is further proof of their 

 identity. The same frog from Lake Superior was named Rana 

 nigricans by Agassiz in 1850. Professor Cope does not think the 

 variation of the northern form of clamitans constant, and he cites a 

 a dark Louisiana example. I am inclined to believe, however, 

 that we have in eastern North America a light colored smooth- 

 skinned, medium-sized Spring-frog in the Carolinian fauna, and a large 

 dark, shagreened Spring-frog peculiar to the Canadian fauna. The 

 name and description of fontinalis of Le Conte is not more appli- 

 cable to the northern form than the southern, and he gives no 

 habitat. The name clamitans was first given to this species in Son- 

 niui and Latreille's Natural History of Reptiles, in 1802. Daudin, 

 who generally gets the credit of this name, spelt it clamata in his 

 Natural History of Reptiles in 1803, and gives himself the credit 

 of naming it in Latreille's work above cited. Bosc would appear to 

 have sent this name when he sent the types and description to La- 

 treille and Daudin from South Carolina, and so far as I can discover, 

 he has a right to some credit for the name. To accord this to him, 

 and at the same time indicate the publishing author, I have adopted 

 the formula, "Bosc Mss., Sonu., Latr." 



The spelling "clamitans" will have to be adopted, as it has 

 priority. 



It is not only bad form, but unscientific and misleading to indicate 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1895. 



the authorship of published manuscript names by only giving the 

 name of the manuscript author, and it is to be hoped that a proper 

 formula for such names will be proposed by the A. O. U. 



32. Rana catesbiana Shaw. Bull Frog. 



Abundant in all lowlands throughout the State. 



A very large Samburg example is remarkably dark beneath, the 

 entire lower parts being coarsely ocellated and vermiculated with 

 black on a white ground ; the head quite black above, the body 

 sooty black. A smaller specimen from the same locality is light 

 olive above, and nearly immaculate below. 



Specimens : Samburg, 2 ad. ; Nolachucky River, Greene County, 

 1 juv. 



Family ENGYSTOMIDJE. 

 Genus ENGYSTOMA Fitzinger. 



33. Engystoma carolinense Holbr. Nebulous Toad. 



The specimens taken were found under logs in woodland, near 

 running water. 



Specimens: Raleigh, 1 ad.; near Chattanooga, 1 ad. 



Family BUFONIDJE. 

 Genus BUFO Laurenti. 



34. Bufo lentiginosus (Shaw). Southern Toad. 



Specimens from southern Tennessee approach nearly to those 

 found in the Gulf States, but the majority are intermediates. 

 Specimens: Bellevue, 1 ad.; Sawyer's Springs, 2 ad. 



35. Bufo lentiginosus americanus (Le C, Mss. Holbr.). Northern Toad. 

 Two typical examples were taken on Roan Mountain. They par- 

 take of the characters found in so many of the animals of this 

 humid "Canadian " environment, viz., the large size and saturated 

 coloration. One was found on the summit. 



Specimens: Roan Mountain (6,300 ft.), 1 ad.; (5,000 ft.), 1 ad. 



Family HYLIDJE. 

 Genus ACRIS Dumeril, Bibron. 



36. Acris gryllus (Le C. ). Cricket Frog. 



Examination of nearly forty specimens, from widely separated 

 localities in Tennessee and Kentucky fails to reveal any constant 

 distinctions between gryllus and crepitant, if both forms are found in 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



the State. Prof. H. Garman considers the size of gryllus (1.4 in.) 

 as given by Le Conte as the only reliable difference. This is much 

 larger than any in my series, and as the Samburg specimens are 

 smaller and more slender than those from the Cumberland plateau, 

 the theory that the southwestern frogs are larger than northeastern 

 ones is contradicted. Le Conte defines the habitat of gryllus in the 

 south Atlantic States, and that of crepitans in the remainder of the 

 eastern United States, but Prof. Cope's identification of the Smith- 

 sonian series allots specimens of both forms to both sides of the Alle- 

 gheny Mountains in such a way that faunal definitions lose their 

 significance. Such being the case I have lumped the entire Ten- 

 nessee series under the original specific name. 



Specimens: Samburg, 10 ad.; Chattanooga, 2 ad.; Sawyer's 

 Springs, 12 ad. ; Greeneville, 4 ad., 4 juv. 



Genus CHOROPHILUS Baird. 



37. Chorophilus triseriatus (Wiedni.). Chorus Frog. 



A male and female were taken together in a pool on the'Chicka- 

 mauga battle field, eight miles from Chattanooga. I heard the 

 voice of this species in other parts of the State but do not remember 

 it west of the central basin. 



The specimens have been mislaid. 



Genus HYLA Laurenti. 



38. Hyla cinerea semifasciata (Hallow.). Hallowell's Tree Frog. 



The name of the typical eastern form of this species has a rather 

 peculiar history. Later authors have adopted the name carolinensis 

 of Gunther, (Cat. Bat. Sal., B. M., 1858, p. 105). Giinther in his 

 synonymy quotes a "Calamita carolinensis, Penn., Zool. Arct. II, p. 

 331," and, contrary to good rules, our most noted writers in this 

 branch of science have used the name binomially as " Hyla carolin- 

 ensis Pennant." 



Reference to the Arctic Zoology shows us that Pennant not only 

 never imposed original binomials or polynomials on previously 

 unnamed species but that the "Calamita carolinensis" of Gunther is 

 mythical. The entire reference to it by Pennant is as follows: 



"Fr.[og] with the back gibbous, ciuereous, and smooth: belly 

 yellow and granulated; on each side from the nose to the rump is a 

 line; the same on the outside of the thighs and legs; toes bullated 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



at their ends. Inhabits Carolina." On the margin of the same 

 page he gives the number "13" and the English specific name 

 "Cinereous," belonging to the description. He gives no synonymy 

 nor reference to Catesby as in the description of frogs immediately 

 preceding this one, and there is little doubt that he based this 

 Cinereous Frog on a specimen in his possession preserved in spirits 

 and sent him from "Carolina." On a preceding page he considers 

 the same frog as figured by Catesby, viz.: the "Green Tree Frog, 

 Catesby II, 71," to be identical with the " Rana arborea^ of 

 Linnaeus. 



How Giinther could have imposed such a forgery as " Calamita 

 carolinensis Pennant," on himself seems inexplicable and that this 

 nomen spurium should have been perpetuated to the present day as 

 a valid name is scarcely less astonishing. Professors S. and H. 

 Garman seem to have had doubts about the name carolinensk and 

 the former in his work on the Herpetology of Illinois rightly adopts 

 the name einerea of Schneider (Calamita cinerea Schn., Hist. Amph. 

 1799, p." 174) for this species. 



On examining Schneider's description the mystery is largely 

 explained. Under the division "XI, Oinereus' n of his genus "Cala- 

 mitce " it begins with the following sentence: " In Pennanti Zoologia 

 Arctica II, p. 331, edit. sec. Calamita Carolinensis describitur sub- 

 eodem nomine veluti species nova." The remainder of Schneider's 

 description is a latinized version of the one given by Pennant above 

 quoted. Giinther mistook Schneider to mean that Pennant had 

 given the Cinereous Frog a binomial and, without verifying the 

 reference ' ' Calamita Carolinensis " gave it precedence over 

 Schneider's name cinerea ! 



Prof. Garman, in trying to correct Giinther' s error has committed 

 a precisely similar one by construing Schneider to mean by the 

 phrase "describitur sub-eodem nomine " that Pennant had used the 

 name "Cinereous" in a binomial sense, so he makes it (Synop. 

 Rept. Amph., Ills., p. 346), " Hyla cinerea Pennant." 



I found this species abundant on the margins of Reelfoot Lake. 

 The specimens taken strongly emphasize the validity of the western 

 semifasciata form, described by Hallowell, as compared with Caro- 

 lina and Florida examples of cinerea. Among the more constant 

 distinguishing characters shown by my series, is the large size, robust 

 form, obtuse snout, relatively short hind leg (heel not reaching end 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



of nose), short, wide, black-bordered costal stripe, no femoral 

 stripe, back yellow-spotted. Should a larger series from the Missis- 

 sippi Valley and the Gulf States show no intergradation, semifasciata 

 is a good species and, in any event, has evident sub-specific claims 

 .to a place in nomenclature. 



Specimens: Samburg; 3 ad., 1 juv. 



39. Hyla pickeringi (Storer). Pickering's Tree Frog. 



Storer's description and name (Rept. of Mass., 1839, p. 240), of 

 this species are the first published ones. He was indebted to the 

 manuscript Journal of the Essex County Natural History Society 

 for the description. This journal was afterward published in 1852, 

 and the manuscript referred to is given in the table of contents as 

 "Remarks on Hyla (Femoralis) Pickeringii observed in the North 

 Parish of Dan vers. By Andrew Nichols. ... p. 593." 



Storer was a good friend of Holbrook. He does not seem to have 

 published his " Hy lodes pickeringi " as new, as he omits the "nobis" 

 used after such species. He also omits giving any author's name, 

 but gives the synonymatic reference, "N. A. Herpet. , Vol. III." 

 This refers to the first edition of Holbrook's work which probably 

 had not been issued from the press when Storer wrote his description. 

 This accounts for Storer not giving the page reference. Holbrook's 

 Herpetology came out in 1838, one year before the date of Storer's 

 work, but it contains no reference to H. pickeringi. In the second 

 edition published in 1842 the description and plate appear but there 

 is no reference to Storer. 



The whole thing is difficult to interpret, but so far as our evidence 

 goes Storer has the best of it and sole claim to the name. It is 

 probable, however, that Holbrook had suggested to Storer that the 

 animal would be named after Dr. Pickering in his forthcoming third 

 volume of the N. A. Herpetology and Storer innocently so used the 

 name in his manuscript and inadvertently allowed it to get into 

 print in that form before Holbrook had published it. Holbrook's 

 disregard of Storer's previous use qf. the name is inexplicable. 



Only heard in the mountains of the eastern region. 



Specimen: Roan Mt. (6,300) ft., Mitchell Co., N. Car., (200yds. 

 east of Tennessee line), 1 ad. $ . 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Order URODELA. 



Family PLEURODELIDJE. 



Genus DIEMYCTYLUS Eaflnesque. 



40. Diemyctylus viridescens meridionalis (Cope). Spotted Triton. 

 About forty of these Newts were brought alive to me by a boy 



who had takeu them in a stream flowing into Reelfoot Lake. They 

 were the only specimens observed by me in Tennessee. The series 

 is remarkably uniform in size, averaging about three inches in 

 length. The coloration is likewise remarkably constant; dark olive 

 above with round dots of black evenly distributed, becoming clouded 

 on the tail. Lower parts clear, light yellow, dotted with black. Tail 

 strongly keeled above and below. The entire series lacks any indi- 

 cation of the lateral, red, black- ringed ocelli so uniformly present in 

 viridescens. 



The name miniatus given by Rafmesque to this species in the 

 same issue of the Annals of Nature containing his description of 

 viridescens, must give place to the latter name, which was the first 

 in the order of sequence. 



The occurrence of the meridionalis type of this species in the 

 Mississippi bottoms of Tennessee is of much interest and seems 

 quite parallel to that of Hyla cinerea semifasciata above men- 

 tioned, both cases showing the close faunal relationship of this re- 

 gion with eastern and southeastern Texas. 



Specimens: Samburg, 14. 



Family DESMOGNATHIDJE. 

 Genus DESMOGNATHUS Baird. 



41. Desmognathus nigra (Green). Black Salamander. 

 Found only in the eastern part of the State. 



Specimens: Sawyer's Springs, 8 juv.; Roan Mountain (3,500 to 

 5,000 feet), 2 ad. ' 



42. Desmognathus fusca (Raf. ). Dusky Salamander. 



Specimens: Roan Mountain ($500 feet), 1 ad.; ditto (6,300 feet), 

 1 ad. 



43. Desmognathus ochrophaea Cope. Gray Salamander. 

 I doubtfully refer two specimens to this species. 

 Specimens: Harriman, 2 ad. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Family PLETHODONTIDJE. 



Genus SPELERPES Rafinesque. 



44. Spelerpes ruber (Sonn. Latr.). Red Salamander. 



The large specimens from Sawyer's Springs were found under 

 logs in dry woodland. The color in life was light brownish red, 

 darkly and thickly spotted with black. The larval Roan Moun- 

 tain specimen was taken in a quiet pool of water. A well defined 

 slender black vertebral line reaches from the shoulders to end of 

 tail. In other respects it is like Prof. Cope's diagnosis of S. r. 

 montanus, to which variety (subspecies?) it undoubtedly should be 

 referred. A specimen was seen in a spring on the summit of Roan 

 Mountain. 



Specimens: Sawyer's Springs, 3 ad. ; Roan Mountain (4,000 feet) 

 1 juv. 



45. Spelerpes bislineatus (Green). Two-striped Salamander. 



Very abundant under logs just below the fir belt on Roan Moun- 

 tain. 



Specimens: Roan Mountain (4,500 to 5,000 feet), 7 ad. 



Genus GYRINOPHILUS Cope. 



46. Gyrinophilus porphyriticus (Green). Porphyritic Salamander. 



The only specimen coming to notice was taken under the upper 

 bark of a huge hemlock log in the deciduous belt of Roan Moun- 

 tain at about 4,000 feet elevation. Its length is not quite five 

 inches. A thread-like, black, vertebral line extends from shoulders 

 to root of tail. The dorsal spotting is minute, the lower parts 

 immaculate save the border of the lower jaw. A dark line from 

 nostril to eye. Color above, in life, pale salmon. This species 

 is not essentially an aquatic animal, as the above capture proves, 

 the nearest stream of water being fifty yards from the tree on 

 which I found the specimen. 



Specimen: Roan Mountain, near Rock Creek, 1 ad. 



Genus PLETHODON Tschudi. 



47. Plethodon glutinosus (Green). Viscid Salamander. 



This is the most abundant and uniformly distributed salamander 

 in Tennessee. None were found on Roan Mountain. 



Specimens: Samburg, 1 ad., 1 juv.; Raleigh, 7 ad.; Sawyer's 

 Springs, 5 ad., 5 juv.; Knoxville, 1 juv. 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



48. Plethodon aeneus Cope. Web-footed Salamander. 



This species was found associating with glutinosus on the Cum- 

 berland table land near Chattanooga, which is in the type region. 

 The specimens were taken under the bark of rotten tree stumps 

 about three feet from the ground. Prof. Cope states "the terminal 

 phalanges are truncate and slightly expanded at the tips, as in the 

 P. glutinosus" In my specimens this truncation and expansion is 

 greatly exaggerated, especially on the hind feet, the tips of the toes 

 being nearly twice the diameter of the phalanges ; the latter are dis- 

 tinctly webbed and the soles and palms wider than long. The inner 

 toes of both hind and fore feet do not stand out from the plantar 

 circumference save as a right-angled border, being practically non- 

 functional as compared with the same members in glutinosus. In 

 other characters, including measurements, my adult specimen is a 

 duplicate of the type. The young individual is twenty-five milli- 

 meters long, but in all respects, except size, corresponds to the adult. 



Specimens: Sawyer's Springs, 1 ad., 1 juv. 



49. Plethodon erythronotus (Green). Red-backed Salamander. 



So far as I can identify the specimens on hand, this species is found 

 in both middle and west Tennessee. The series appears to confirm 

 the belief, based on collections from Pennsylvania, that the form 

 einereus is not a geographic but an individual variation which may 

 often be found in direct association with erythronotus in a single 

 colony. Erythronotus, on account of its precedence over einereus in 

 Dr. Green's original descriptions, should stand for the species, eine- 

 reus becoming a synonym. 



Specimens: Bellevue, 1 juv.; Roan Mountain (3,000 to 5,000 

 feet), 14 ad. and juv. 



Family AMBLYSTOMIDjE. 



Genus AMBLYSTOMA Tschudi. 



50. Amblystoma jeffersonianum (Green). Plumbeous Salamander. 



These sluggish salamanders are very numerous under logs below 

 the fir belt on Roan Mountain and a few even wander to a greater 

 elevation. They seem to replace P. glutinosus in this locality. The 

 series is very constant in coloration, bluish black above, dusky below, 

 with a brownish yellow chin and throat. There is no spotting, but 

 a close examination shows a light blue pitting along the sides and 

 tail and over the chest and abdomen. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Specimens: Roan Mountain (4,000 to 5,200 ft.), 13 ad. 



51. Amblystoma opaoum Gravenhorst. Ladder-back Salamander. 

 Specimen: Raleigh, 1 ad. 



Family CRYPTOBRANCHID^. 

 Genus CRYPTOBRANCHTTS Leuckart. 



52. Cryptobranohus allegheniensis (Latr.). Hellbender. 



A specimen was taken from the interior of a water snake, Natrix 

 sipedon. The anterior half of the body is much macerated, but the 

 remainder is in good condition. The animal is about two-thirds 

 grown; the ground color a greenish olive, spotted, in strong contrast 

 with irregular transverse bands and blotches of black. The abdomen 

 is sparingly spotted with the same shade. In all other specimens I 

 have examined the general shade was leaden and the marbling 

 obscure or absent altogether. 



Specimen: Tennessee River, near Knoxville, 1 juv. ad. 



List of Reptiles and Amphibians Recorded from Tennessee not 

 Mentioned in the Preceding Annotated List. 



Order CROCODILIA. 



1. Alligator mississippiensis (Daud.). Alligator. 



I was assured by Mr. J. A. Craig, of Sam burg, that he had seen 

 Alligators in the Mississippi near Memphis. 



Order CHELONIA. 



2. Pseudemys troosti (Holbr.). Troost's Terrapin. 



The type was sent to Dr. Holbrook from the Cumberland river, 

 probably near Nashville. Troost mentions this species in his list of 

 Tennessee reptiles. 1 



3. Pseudemys hieroglyphica (Holbr.). Hieroglyphic Ter- 

 rapin. 



The above remarks also apply to this species. The type of hiero- 

 glyphica is in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. 



4. Malaclemys geographica (Le Sueur). Map Terrapin, 

 Holbrook and Troost record it, the former from the Cumberland 



river. 



1 7th Geol. Rep. Ten «., 1844, p. 39. 

 28 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



5. Macroclemys lacertina (Schweig. ). Alligator Snapper. 

 Numerous in Reelfoot Lake. This is the " Chelonura Tem- 



minekii" of Troost's list. It is probably found throughout west 

 Tennessee in the larger streams. 



6. Amyda mutica (Xe S. ). Leather Back Turtle. 



This is Troost's " Trionyx milieus' ' in the list of Tennessee 

 reptiles. 



7. Aspidonectes nuchalis Agass. Tennessee Soft-shelled Turtle. 

 The types of this species came from the Cumberland river near 



Nashville and young of the same are recorded by Agassiz from the 

 headwaters of the Tennessee River. I observed an Aspidonectes, 

 perhaps this species, in the Tennessee River at the junction of the 

 Holston and French Broad. 



The validity of this species is not well established. 



The "Trionyx ferox" of Troost's list refers chiefly to A. spinifervs 

 which was then confounded with ferox. 



Order SAURIA. 



8. Ophisaurus ventralis (L.). Joint Snake. 



Recorded by Troost, and likely to be found in Tennessee anywhere, 

 west of the higher mountains. 



9. ?Phrynosoma cornutum (Hark). Horned Toad. 



This is given on the authority of Troost' s list. I am not aware of 

 any record east of the Mississippi River. Troost's record may have 

 been based on a specimen escaped from captivity, as it is impossible 

 he could have mistaken some other Tennessee reptile for this char- 

 acteristic species. 

 10. Anolis carolinensis (Dum. Bibr. ). Carolina Chameleon. 



I was frequently told of the presence of this species in western, 

 middle and southeastern Tennessee. Troost records it. After con- 

 siderable search through the literature I am best satisfied to discard 

 Linnaeus's name principalis which Dumeril and Bibron have gone 

 to considerable pains to prove was probably applied to this animal. 

 Cuvier did not apply a binomial to it, as is implied by Dumeril and 

 Bibron. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Order OPHIDIA. 



11. Storeria dekayi (Holbr.). De Kay's Snake. 



Recorded from Tyree Springs in Dr. Yarrow's list of Reptilia and 

 Batrachia in the U. S. National Museum. 



12. Diadophis punctatus (L. ). Ring Snake. 



Yarrow (1. c.) records it from Tyree Springs and Troost includes 

 it in his list. 



13. Virginia valeric Bd. Gir. Valeria's Snake. 

 Yarrow's list names a specimen from Tyree Springs. 



14. ? Agkistrodon atrofuscus (Troost). Highland Moccasin. 

 So far, the specific peculiarities of this snake depend solely on the 



statements of its describer. I saw or heard nothing of such a snake 

 that did not apply to A. contortrix. It is not impossible that the 

 animal may be rediscovered but the probabilities are strongly against 

 it. The type came from Maury County, Tenn. 



15. Crotalophorus catenatus (Raf.). Massasauga Rattlesnake. 

 Troost includes the " Crotalus miliarius Lin.," in his list of Ten- 

 nessee Reptiles, undoubtedly referring to this species, which repre- 

 sents miliarius in the Mississippi Valley. 



Order ANURA. 



16. Scaphiopus holbrooki (Harlan). Spadefoot Toad. 

 This is the 8. solitarius of Troost's list. 



17. Hyla versicolor Le C. Common Tree Frog. 

 Specimens from Roane, Claiborne, and Shelby counties are recorded 



in Yarrow's list. Troost also gives it. 



Order URODELA. 



18. Diemyctylus viridescens (Raf. ) Spotted Triton. 

 This is the " Triton dorsalis Harl." of Troost's list, 



Typical viridescens undoubtedly replaces the race meridionalis in 

 middle and east Tennessee and is the form referred to by Troost, 

 whose researches were chiefly devoted to the region around Nash- 

 ville. 



19. Spelerpes longicaudus (Green). Long-tailed Salamander. 

 The "Salamandra longe caudata" of Troost's catalogue refers to 



this species. See also, Batr. N. Amer. 1889, p. 170. 



20. Spelerpes guttolineatus (Holbr. ). Holbrook's Triton. 

 Another species admitted on Troost's authority. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



21. Amblystoma punctatum (L. ). Spotted Salamander. 



The " Salamandra venenosa" of Troost's list is this species. A 

 specimen from Knoxville is in the National Museum. 



22. Cryptobranchus fuscus (Holbr.). Brown Hellbender. 

 The type of this species was taken by Prof. Mitchell in the Ten- 

 nessee River near Knoxville. Yarrow records a specimen from 

 Nolackijcky River. 



23. Amphiuma means (Garden;. Congo Snake. 

 Listed by Troost. The most northerly record I can find. 



24. Necturus maculatus (Raf. ). Mud Puppy. 



Specimens from Tyree Springs are listed. Troost also gives it a 

 place in his list under the name "Menobranchus lateralis Say." 



Order TRACHYSTOMATA. 



25. Siren lacertina L. Siren. 

 This species is given in Troost's list, 



List of Reptiles and Amphibians likely to occur in the State, but 

 not yet recorded therefrom. 



Order CHELONIA. 



1. Onychotria triunguis (Agass.). Three- toed Tortoise. 



2. Chrysemys picta Herrmann. Painted Turtle. 



3. Chrysemys marginata (Agass.). Western Painted Turtle. 



4. Malaclemys lesueuri (Gray). Le Sueur's Terrapin. 



5. Aromociielys carinatus (Gray. ). Carinated Musk Turtle. 



6. Aspidonectes ferox (Wagler.). Southern Soft-shelled 



Turtle. 



Order OPHIDIA. 



7. Thamnophis saurita (L.). Riband Snake. 



8. Thamnophis ordinatus (L.). Variations going under the 

 names sirtalis, parietalis, obscura and graminea. 



9. Thamnophis radix (Bd. Gir. ). Transition Garter Snake. 



10. Natrix sipedon (L. ). Variations erythrogaster ancP rhombifer. 



11. Natrix taxispilota (Holbr.). Great Water Snake. 



12. Natrix grahami (Bd., Gir.). Graham's Leather Snake. 



13. Tropidoclonion lineatum (Hallow.). Lined Snake. 



14. Storeria occipitomaculata (Storer). Storer's Snake. 




1890. ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



15. Abastor erythrogrammus (Daud.). Red-lined Snake, 

 Hoop Snake. 



16. Farancia abacura (Holbr.). Red-bellied Horn Snake. 1 



17. ^Liopeltis 2 vernalis (De Kay). Green Snake. Spring 

 Snake. 



18. Pituophis catenifer sayi (Schl.). Bull Snake. 



19. Coluber guttatus L. Corn Snake. 



20. Heterodon simus (L.). Hognose Snake. 



21. Haldea striatula (L.). Little Striped Snake. 



22. Virginia elegans (Kenn. ). Kennicott's Brown Snake. 



Order ANURA. 



23. Ran a sylvatica Le C. Wood Frog. 



24. Hyla squirella Bosc. mss., Sonn. , Latr. Squirrel Frog. 



Order URODELA. 



25. Hemidactylium scutatum (Schl.). Four-toed Salamander. 



26. Chondrotus microstomus (Cope). Small-headed Salaman- 

 der. 



27. Amblystoma tigrinum (Green). Tiger Salamander. 



28. Amblystoma conspersum (Cope). Sprinkled Salamander. 



29. Amblystoma talpoideum (Holbr.). Mole Salamander. 



Order TRACHYSTOMATA. 



30. Pseudobranchus striatus (Le C. ). Striated Siren. 



1 Mr. B. C. Miles, of Brownsville, Tennessee, writes me that he has taken 

 this snake in the bottoms. 



2 1 here adopt Fitzinger's genus in good faith. He made Herpetodryas 

 tricolor of Schlegel the type of this genus. Should it prove that Prof. Cope's 

 assertion (Proc. A. N. Sci., Phila.. 1860, p. 560), that this species is generically 

 similar to our vernalis, is incorrect, there seems to be no other generic name 

 strictly applicable to it. Prof. Cope's appropriation of Fitzinger's genus Liopel- 

 tis as his own (Proc. N. Mus., Vol. XIV, p. 620) is not only inconsistent with his 

 well-known views on the " catalogue names " of that author, but is in plain 

 violation of the " Code.'' 




408 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



PRELIMINARY NOTE ON A NEW ALKALI MINERAL. 

 BY WARREN M. FOOTE. 



While searching recently at Borax Lake, California, for the rare 

 species Sulphohalite, Mr. C. H. Northup discovered what he con- 

 sidered to be a new form of that mineral. 



The crystals were found during a laborious working of the tailings 

 which came from an exploratory boring known as the "New Well," 

 made by the Borax Lake Mining Company, and were formed in a 

 clay which was reached at a depth of about 450 feet. They were 

 at once forwarded to Dr. A. E. Foote, to whom the writer is indebted 

 for the material used in this examination. 



Crystallization, etc. — The mineral crystallizes in bright and 

 perfect octahedrons of a diameter rarely exceeding one centimeter. 

 Fractured crystals show in the interior a cross formed of faint lines 

 running perpendicular to the octahedral faces. Dark planes (which 

 were sharply defined in the interior of every specimen examined), lie 

 parallel to cubic symmetry thus passing through the angles of the 

 octahedron and dividing it into eight parts, each part containing a 

 distinct group of striae. 



The same thing is noticeable in the clearest of the complete 

 crystals, a bundle of lines coming from the central nucleus to the 



centre of each face. The accompanying sketch will give an idea of 

 the interior structure as appearing in a broken crystal. 



This remarkable phenomenon is strikingly similar to that observed 

 in Boleite cubes (figured by Bombicci in a memoir on Mimetical 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



Pyrite, Bologna 1893). Again, triangular markings on the surface 

 and a frequent parallel grouping of the octahedrons suggest a form 

 of interpenetration twinning, where the twinning axis is cubic as in 

 diamond. 



Color, varying from milky, pale yellow and greenish gray to 

 brown. Cleavage, imperfect. Fracture, brittle and uneven. Lustre, 

 vitreous. Hardness, 3.5 to 4. 



Chemical Examination. — Easily fusible. In a closed tube decrepi- 

 tates violently and gives off water, finally fusing to a gray mass. 

 Fragments and powdered mineral are almost unchanged by long 

 standing in water and the powder soluble with difficulty on boiling. 

 Readily soluble with effervescence in cold dilute hydrochloric acid. 

 Qualitative tests made on clear crystals, showed the presence of 

 carbon dioxide, chlorine and sodium with slight traces of calcium 

 and potassium, making it essentially a chlorocarbonate of sodium, a 

 composition quite as remarkable as that of other species peculiar 

 to this locality. 



Though found sparingly, it is hoped that material can be obtained 

 for a further and more complete investigation than the writer is at 

 present able to give. 



The name Northupite is proposed for this new species, since it was 

 entirely due to Mr. Northup's indefatigable zeal in collecting, that 

 the mineral was brought to light. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES OF COTTOID FISHES 



FROM PUGET SOUND. 



BY EDWIN CHAPIN STARKS. 



COTTIDJE. 

 JORDANIA, new genus. 



Allied, but not closely, to Triglops and Chitonotus. 



Body elongate, not greatly compressed ; head moderate, partly 

 scaled, with dermal flaps above. Mouth moderate, with bands of 

 villiform teeth on jaws, vomer and palatines. Body above lateral 

 line closely covered with strongly ctenoid scales ; lower half of 

 body with narrow, parallel plate-like folds of skin, running obliquely 

 downward and backward from lateral line to within *a short distance 

 of anal fin, the posterior edge of each fold finely and sharply ser- 

 rate. Gill-membranes united, free from isthmus; a slit behind last 

 gill. Spinous dorsal with very long base, of about 17 spines, longer 

 than the soft dorsal; anal long; ventrals 1 + 5, inserted behind base 

 of pectorals by a distance equal to snout and half eye. 



I take pleasure in naming this remarkable genus for my teacher 

 in ichthyology, David Starr Jordan. 



Jordania zonope n. sp. 



Head 3? in length of body; depth 5 J. Dorsal xvii-15; Anal 

 22 ; lateral line with 50 pores. Orbit 3f in head ; maxillary 3 J ; 

 longest dorsal spine If; longest dorsal ray 2i; longest anal ray 2i; 

 length of ventrals If; pectorals £ longer than head; caudal 1|-. 



Body rather elongate, compressed posteriorly, not much anteriorly; 

 the back not elevated; dorsal and ventral outlines almost straight 

 from head to caudal peduncle. 



Head not large, profile from front of dorsal to eyes nearly hori- 

 zontal and straight, then abruptly turning steeply downward to end 

 of snout ; lower profile gently curved from chin to ventral fins. 



Mouth small, the maxillary not reaching the vertical from front 

 of orbit; jaws about equal, or the lower slightly projecting; teeth in 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 411 



villiform bands on jaws, vomer and palatines; eyes large, set high 

 in head, a little shorter than snout; interorbital space deeply con- 

 cave, half as wide as eye; a slip of skin, half as long as the diam- 

 eter of the eye, over the anterior edge of each eye, and a longer 

 one over the posterior edge; a few minute fleshy slips on nape; nasal 

 spines long and sharp, somewhat curved backward; spine on pre- 

 opercle simple, hooked upward, a minute spine above it, and a 

 blunt spine below; posterior end of interopercle prominent, forming 

 a blunt spine; opercle produced posteriorly in a flap, which lies in 

 a shallow groove in the shoulder-girdle; no opercular spine; gill- 

 membranes united, but not joined to the isthmus; a distinct slit 

 behind fourth gill arch; branchiostegals 5. 



Top of head to middle of eyes, opercles and upper part of pre- 

 opercles, closely covered with small rough scales; head otherwise 

 naked; body above lateral line completely covered with ctenoid 

 scales, not very regular in size, arranged in about 67 series; lower 

 half of body covered to within a short distance of anal with about 

 50 oblique plate- like folds of skin, the posterior edges of which are 

 finely and sharply serrate; the pores of lateral line are situated in 

 the upper ends of these folds; base of pectoral, belly and a narrow 

 space along base of anal, naked; fins, all naked, with the exception 

 of pectoral, which has a few rough scales on the rays; vent situated 

 at anterior end of anal fin. 



Dorsal spines slender, the first one inserted in advance of base of 

 pectoral, directly over the upper end of gill-opening; the fin some- 

 what rounded in outline, the spines not varying greatly in length, 

 with the exception of two or three on each side, which are shortened ; 

 soft dorsal a little lower than spinous, the rays sub- equal; the base is 

 a little shorter than the base of first dorsal, and slightly longer than 

 the length of head; ventral fins, long, inserted behind base of pec- 

 torals, by a distance equal to snout and half eye, their tips reaching 

 past front of anal fin, their length equal to the distance from snout 

 to edge of preopercle; the pubic bone very prominent; pectoral fins 

 long and curved upward, the middle rays the longest, reaching far 

 past tips of ventrals and front of anal to the space between dorsals, 

 the ends of lower rays free; the width of the fin at its base contained 

 3 times in the length of the head; caudal rounded. 



Color in spirits blackish, with traces of 4 or 5 darker cross bars 

 on back; sides below lateral line mottled, faint dark spots along 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



lateral line, more conspicuous posteriorly; a dark bar half as wide 

 as eye, running from eye downward across cheek to anterior end of 

 interopercle; bordered on each side by a light streak, a similar 

 bordered bar running across top of head, slightly turning around 

 posterior margin of orbit, downward along margin of preopercle, 

 and ending on posterior end of interopercle; snout abruptly black, 

 lips dark; fins all dark and slightly mottled; tips of ventral, anal 

 and caudal rays a little lighter; caudal and pectoral dark at base; 

 slips on top of head black; belly very finely dusted with minute 

 dark points. 



This species is not uncommon in Puget Sound ; the types are three 

 specimens taken on channel rocks at Point Orchard, near Seattle, by 

 Miss Maud Parker and Mr. Adam Hubbart, members of the Young 

 Naturalists' Club of Seattle. The largest of them is 4 inches in 

 length. The types are in the Museum of the Leland Stanford 

 Junior University. Unfortunately the life colors of this brilliant 

 species were not taken. There is, in life, much red on the lateral 

 plates and elsewhere on the body and fins. This disappears at once 

 in alcohol. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 413 



NEW SPECIES OF FUNGI FROM VARIOUS LOCALITIES. 

 BY J. B. ELLrS AND B. M. EVERHART. 

 Fomes alboluteus E. & E. 



On charred trunks of Abies subalpina Eng. Mountains of 

 Colorado, 10,000 ft. alt. July 1894. Prof. C. S. Crandall. 



Effused and laterally connate for several centimeters, about 1 cm. 

 thick and 5-6 cm. broad, immarginate and entirely resupinate or, 

 in some specc. with a very slight, reflexed margin, of soft, spongy 

 texture and light orange color within and without, Pores large* 

 1-2 mm. diam., with a thin, membranaceous, white, toothed margin. 

 The spores perhaps from immaturity could not be satisfactorily 

 made out. 



Grandinia fuscolutea E. & E. 



On underside of rotten logs and limbs lying on the ground, 

 Newfield, N. J., Oct. 1894. 



Membranaceous, soft, 1-10 cm. diam., bright- yellow, lutea, at 

 first and tuberculose-granulose, becoming darker and smoother in 

 drying; margin white, cottony or arachnoid; granules small, whitish 

 at the apex. Spores, elliptical, dull yellow, 5 — 6x 3 //. On clavate- 

 cylindrical basidia about 15x6 //, with 2 — 4 short, 4 — 5 //., sporo- 

 phores. The hymenium at length becomes rimose, exposing the 

 white subiculum. 



Peniophora trachytricha E. & E. 



On bark of decaying oak limbs, Newfield, N. J., Oct. 1894. 



Thin, milk-white at first, becoming yellowish and thicker as the 

 hymenium forms, extending along for 6 inches or more, surface at 

 first minutely granular, at length floccose- tubercular, resembling 

 Kneiffia. Margin thin granular-cottony. Cystidia subcylindrical, 

 coarsely tubercular-roughened, or sometimes with the upper part 

 smooth and the tip swollen. 100-120x10-12 //, the free projecting 

 ends about 40-50 <>. long, basidia clavate- cylindrical 12-15 x 3 j- 

 4J //. Spores oblong, obtuse, 7-8x3-35 /;., hyaline. 



Apparently allied to P. hydnoides Cke. and Massee. 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895 



Bovista cellulosa E. & E. 



Beneath the surface of the ground. Fort Collins, Colorado, 

 August 1894. C. F. Baker, No. 302. 



Inner peridium depressed- globose, 1-1£ cm. diam. , coriaceous, 

 tough, grayish outside, clothed around the sides with a honey- 

 colored, favose-cellulose coat 1-2 mm. thick, and this again clothed 

 with a thin, grayish-yellow membrane to which the soil adheres ex- 

 ternally forming with this membrane, an outer peridium 1—1* mm. 

 thick and separating from the cellular layer with a clean, smooth 

 surface. Capillitium homogeneous, filling the inner peridium, 

 olivaceous, composed of simple or sparingly branched threads 3—4 /j. 

 thick and yellowish-hyaline, with abundant, globose, slightly rough- 

 ened or wrinkled, olivaceous spores 3-4 ;j. diam. 



This is closely allied to Bovista circumscissa B. & C. from which 

 it differs in its cellular coat and smaller, not so distinctly roughened 

 spores. B. circumscissa has spores 5 %— 6 £ <i. diam. 



Lycoperdon alpigenum E. & E. 



On the ground at the timber line, above, Cameron Pass, N. W. 

 Colorado, alt. 11,500 ft., July 1894. Prof. C. S. Crandall. No. 17. 



About 2 cm. diam. Peridium coriaceous, about 1 mm. thick, 

 brown outside and rimose-squamulose above. Capillitium rudimen- 

 tary, consisting of a few coarse, 6-10 //. diam., sparingly branched 

 or entirely disconnected, yellowish brown threads without any 

 attachment. Sterile base occupying about \ part of the cavity, 

 pale yellowish. Spores globose, nearly smooth 32// diam., with a 

 short pedicel. 

 Capnodium Lygodesmiae E. & E. 



On living stems of Lygodesmia juncea. Fort Collins, Colorado, 

 Oct. 1894. C. F. Baker, No. 293. 



Mycelium, consisting of closely septate threads 4-6 ,u. thick, loosely 

 interwoven, forming a thin, dirty drabcolored coating enveloping 

 the stems. Perithecia numerous, globose, ovate, or oblong-elliptical 

 20-90 x 20-40 n, obtuse at the apex, with coarsely cellular, olive- 

 brown walls. Sporules not abundant, oblong-elliptical, 5-8 X 3 //, 

 hyaline. The specc. show only the pycnidial stage of growth, no 

 asci being observed. 

 Acanthostigma scopulorum E. & E. 



On dead stems of Ligusticum scopulorum. Mts. west of ' ' Steam- 

 boat Springs," Colo., July 1894. Prof. C. S. Crandall, No. 123. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



Perithecia gregarious, erurapent-superficial, globose, 75-110 // 

 diam. surrounded by a crooked, branching, creeping mycelium 

 which blackens the surface of the stem, and clothed with straight, 

 black, 3-4— septate, spreading, bristles, 75-110// long and 6-7// 

 thick at base, tapering above to an obtuse point. Asci 

 clavate-cylindrical, sessile, 55-65x10-12//, 8-spored. Paraphyses 

 obscure or wanting. Sporidia crowded fusoid, 4-septate, the next 

 to the upper cell swollen, 22-30 X 4-4 £ //, slightly curved, yellowish- 

 hyaline. 



Distinguished from A. decastylum Cke., by its smaller perithecia, 

 with more abundant bristles and by the swollen joint of the sporidia. 



Herpotrichia purpurea E. & E. 



On dead culms and leaves of Deyeuxia Suksdorfii Scrib. Easton, 

 Wash., July, 1892. Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 344. 



Perithecia scattered, superficial, hemispherical, \— f mm. diam., 

 clothed with a dense coat of purple hair 90-140 X 3-3? //, continuous 

 or sparingly septate, soon deciduous above, leaving the apex of the 

 perithecium and the papilliform ostiolum bare. 



Asci cylindrical, 40-50 x 3-7 //, short-stipitate, aparaphysate, 

 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, fusoid-oblong, hyaline, becoming 

 faintly uniseptate, very slightly curved, subobtuse, 9— 14xl£— 2//. 



Letendraea luteola E. & E. 



On decayed wood. Ohio (Morgan No. 1,109.) Perithecia gre- 

 garious, superficial, thick- mem branaceo-carnose, i—§ mm. diam., 

 yellow-farinose-pubescent above, mostly more or less collapsing. 

 Ostiolum short-cylindrical, stout. Asci cylindrical, 75-85x5-6//, 

 attenuated below into a stipe 30-35// long, indistinctly paraphysate, 

 6-8-spored. Sporidia, uniseriate, oblong, slightly narrowed at each 

 end, but obtuse, often slightly inequilateral, uniseptate, but not con- 

 stricted, pale-brown, 8-11 x3-3?//, lying end to end in the asci. 



Rosellinia geasteroides E. & E. 



On decaying stem of Arundinaria, St. Martinville, La., Julv, 

 1895. Rev. A. B. Langlois, 2,404. 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial, depressed-globose, f mm. diam., 

 with a distinct, papilliform ostiolum, wall of the perithecium double, 

 the outer coat membranaceous, soon splitting into about 5 reflexed 

 lobes, and resembling a minute Geaster. Asci cylindrical, 100-110 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



(p. sp. 75-80) x 6 ',)., paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, 

 inequilaterally-elliptical, soon opake, 10-12 x 5 //. 



Rosellinia limoniispora E. & E. 



Proc. Acad., Phil. 1894, p. 326. The habitat of this species was 

 erroneously given as on leaves of Fraxinus. It should be on dead 

 shoots or limbs of Fraxinus buried in the ground. Mr. B. also 

 finds it on dead limbs of Ailanihus and of Juglans dnerea in similar 

 situations, its entire growth and development being subterraneous. 

 In the specc. on Ailanthus there are traces of a ' thin, light colored 

 (cinereous) subiculum more or less distinct. The young perithecia 

 are ovate-globose, but become more or less flattened above. 



Rosellinia muriculata E. & E. 



On inner surface of bark of Populus monilifera, Rockport, Kansas, 

 Dec, 1894. E. Bartholomew, No. 1,613. 



Perithecia superficial, ovate, slightly contracted below, 200-220 

 x 180-200 ,/, clothed with a short, white pubesence; ostiolum minute, 

 papilliform. Asci cylindrical, 75 x 6-7 <>. p. sp. 55-60 ,u. long. 

 Short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia obliquely uniseri- 

 ate, oblong elliptical, pale brown, 8-10x4-5//. 



The white pubescence soon disappears, leaving the perithecia black 

 and muriculate-roughened. 



Melanopsamma borealis E. & E. 



On inner surface of loosened bark of fir trees, Newfoundland. 

 Rev. A. C. Waghorne. 



Perithecia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, ovate- globose, rough, 

 250-300 // diam., with a conic-papilliform ostiolum. Asci clavate- 

 cylindrical, 90-100 x 8-10//, with filiform, somewhat branched par- 

 aphyses. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-ovate, uniseptate and con- 

 stricted, hyaline, 14-16 x 5;j-6j //.. 



Melanomma boreale E. & E. 



On weather-beaten wood. Newfoundland, Dec. 1894. Rev. 

 A. C. Waghorne. 



Perithecia erumpent-superficial, gregarious, ovate, about £ mm. 

 diam., subcarbonaceous, sometimes collapsing above. Ostiola at 

 first inconspicuous, at length conic-cylindrical, truncate. Asci clavate, 

 cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored p. sp. 50-55x4- 

 5 /'. Sporidia obliquely uniseriate or subbiseriate above, oblong, 




1895. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



obtuse, 3-septate aud slightly constricted at the septa, sometimes 

 very slightly, curved, pale- olivaceous 9-11 x 3—3 -1 ;>. 



Melanomma nigricans E. & E. 



On rotten wood. Ohio. Morgan. 



Perithecia densely crowded, forming a nearly continuous layer on 

 the surface of the blackened wood, small (150-200//), subglo- 

 bose, nearly glabrous; ostiolum papilliform. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 short-stipitate, paraphysate p. sp. about 55x12//. Sporidia 

 bi.seriate, oblong-fusoid, slightly curved, obtuse, mostly a little 

 narrower at one end, hyaline at first, soon pale-brown, 3-septate, 14- 

 17x41-51/*. 



Some of the perithecia are smaller and contain oblong-elliptical, 

 brown, uniseptate and constricted spores 8-11x5-6//. Dipbdia. 



M. fuscidulum Sacc. has the sporidia about the same but the 

 perithecia are rather larger, with a cylindric-conoid ostiolum, and 

 are scattered or only gregarious and do not blacken the wood. 



Melanomma subcongrunm E. & E. 



On outer bark of Cottonwood trees. Populus monilifera, Rock- 

 port, Kansas, Sept, 1894. E. Bartholomew No. 1,584. 



Perithecia gregarious or erumpent-superncial, the base remaining 

 more or less sunk in the bark, ovate, slaty-black and muricuiately 

 roughened below, 1-f exceptionally 1 mm. diam. The conical 

 perforated ostiolum black and shining. 



Asci clavate-cylindrical, 150-190x12-14//, p. sp. 114-120// 

 long, surrounded by abundant, filiform paraphyses, 8-spored. Spo- 

 ridia overlapping-uniseriate, oblong, a little narrower at the lower 

 end, obtuse, slightly curved, 3-5-septate, slightly constricted at the 

 septa, pale brown. 



Allied to M. medium Sacc. and Speg. and to M. juniperinum Karst. 

 but differs from both in its much larger perithecia and longer asci, 

 and from the former in its 3-5-septate sporidia. 



Ceratostoma melaspermum E. & E. 



On rotten wood. Ohio, Morgan No. 1,041. 



Perithecia gregarious, buried, depressed-globose, membranaceous, 

 1-f mm. diam., with a straight, black, erumpent beak about 1 mm. 

 long, obtuse and often expanded at the top into a small, horizontal, 

 circular disk, and surrounded at the base with spreading, light- 

 yellow hairs forming a loose, tomentose-pilose tuft. Asci cylindrical, 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



short-stipitate, 65-75 x 6-7 //, with faint paraphyses. Sporidia 

 uui seriate, navicular, 2-nucleate, 12—15x5-6//, hyaline at first, 

 becoming opake and nearly black. 



One would expect this to be Sphaeria investita Schw. , Syn. N. 

 Am. 1,621, but the specc. of that species in Herb. Schw. are not 

 distinguishable from Ceratostomella eirrhosa (Pers.) except in having 

 a small patch of yellowish-brown tomeutum around the base 

 of the ostiola. 



Ceratostoma albomaculans E. & E. 



On rotten wood. Ohio. Morgan. 



Perithecia entirely buried, large (1 mm. diam.), membranaceo- 

 coriaceous, 1-3 together. Ostiola erumpent, ovate-conical, black, 

 smooth. Asci cylindrical, p. sp. 75-80 x 7 //., paraphysate. Sporidia 

 uniseriate, inequilaterally elliptical, obtuse 1-2-nucleate, olive- 

 brown, 11-14 x 5-6 ,". 



The ostiola are erumpent in a yellowish-white subelliptical spot 

 1-2 mm. in diameter. 



C. avocetta C. & E. has the perithecia only half as large and 

 the sporidia smaller; the white spots also, under which the perithecia 

 are buried, seem to be characteristic. 



Amphisphaeria confertissima E. & E. 



On weatherbeateu wood, Ohio. Morgan. 



Perithecia superficial, subglobose, 210-220// diam. slightly 

 papillate-roughened, black, densely crowded in oblong patches 

 \— 1 cm. long and 2-3 mm. wide or often by confluence of greater 

 extent. Ostiolum papilliform, black. Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, 

 p. sp. 55-60x8//, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia obliquely 

 uniseriate, ovate-elliptical, brown, uniseptate and constricted, 

 9-11x5-6//.. 



Comes near A. Spegazziniana Sacc. but that has larger, short- 

 fusoid, sporidia and (sec. fig. in F. Ital. 135), slightly swollen each 

 side of the septum. 



Amphisphaeria pilosella E. & E. 



On decaying wood of some deciduous tree. Ohio. Morgan, No. 

 1,103. 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial, subcarbonaceous, minute, 200- 

 250 ,". diam., subglobose, slightly collapsing above, sparingly clothed 

 at first with short, pale, weak, spreading hairs. Ostiolum papilli- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



form, minute, but distinct. Asci cylindrical, 65-70x6//, narrowed 

 below into a stipe 25-30 <>. long, p. sp. 55-60 //. long, indistinctly 

 paraphysate, 6-8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, lying end to end in 

 the asci, oblong-elliptical, uniseptate, but not constricted, pale brown, 

 7-10x3i-4/<. 



Differs from A. Oronoensis in its larger, pilose, sub-collapsed peri- 

 thecia and rather larger sporidia. 



Teichospora nitida E. & E. 



On dead stems of Rubus deliciosus, Rist Canon, Colo., April, 

 1894. Prof. C. S. Crandall, No. 108, and on Rubus villosus, Nut- 

 tallburg, West Va., May, 1895. L. W. Nuttall, No. 706. 



Perithecia thickly scattered, ovate-globose, 350-400 //. diam., at 

 first covered by the epidermis which is raised and pierced by the 

 black, papilliform ostiola, at length, when the epidermis falls away, 

 superficial. Asci clavate-cylindrical, paraphysate, 8-spored, 90- 

 110x11-13//.. Sporidia uniseriate or subbiseriate above, oblong- 

 elliptical, obtusely pointed, 3-5-septate, with a longitudinal septum 

 running through part or all the cells, 15-20 x 8-10, a, pale, yellow- 

 ish-brown, slightly or not at all constricted in the middle. 



The West Va. specc. have the perithecia rather smaller 250— 

 300 // diam. 



Teichospora minima E. & E. 



On a dry oak post, mixed with Rosellinia pulveracea Ehr. , var. 

 microspora, Rockport, Kansas, Oct., 1894. E. Bartholomew 1,591. 



Perithecia scattered, small 100-110 //, collapsing, nearly smooth, 

 with a papilliform ostiolum. Asci clavate-oblong, short-stipitate, 50 

 x 12-15//. p. sp. 40-46//. long, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 crowded-biseriate, elliptical, about 5-septate, not constricted, 12-15 

 x 7-8 //., olive brown. 



Differs from T. pygmaea E. & E. in its smaller, collapsed perithecia 

 and shorter asci. 



Lophiostoma clavisporum E. & E. 



On dead culms of Elymus Canadensis. Rooks Co., Kansas 

 March 18, 1895. Bartholomew, No. 1,694. 



Perithecia scattered or gregarious, buried, except the erumpent, 



thin, flattened ostiolum, 300x150//, culms mostly blackened on 



the surface. Asci clavate-cylindrical. short-stipitate, paraphysate, 



40-60x12//.. Sporidia crowded in the asci, clavate, 3-5-septate, 



29 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



mostly constricted at the septa, yellow-brown, 20-27 x 5-6 p., 

 slightly curved, obtusely rounded above, gradually narrowed below. 



Differs from L. insidiosum in the sporidia being without appen- 

 dages. 

 Lophiostoma Dakotense E. & E. 



On decorticated limbs of Cottonwood, Populus monilifera. Dakota 

 Oct., 1894. Prof. T. A. Williams, No. 151. 



Perithecia gregarious, semi-immersed, subglobose, 200-250 //, 

 diam., black- brown, with a conical, slightly compressed ostiolum. 

 Asci clavate-cylindrical, short- stipitate, 65-75x10-12//, with 

 abundant, filiform paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, oblong- fusoid, 

 uuiseptate at first, soon becoming 3-septate and constricted at the 

 septa, nearly straight, hyaline, or at length subolivaceous, 15-20 x 

 5-6 //. Accompanied by a Phoma with perithecia erumpent-super- 

 ficial, 100-120 ;/, diam., soon collapsed to almost cup-shaped, and 

 with oblong-elliptical sporules, 2-3 x 1-1} //., smoky-hyaline. Near 

 L. duplex Karst. but is smaller in all its parts. 



Cucurbitaria stenocarpa E. & E. 



On dead stems of Rhus diversiloba. Pasadena, Cala., Aug., 1884. 

 Prof. A. J. McClatchie, No. 766. 



Perithecia in groups of 2-6 together, bursting out through short, 

 narrow-elliptical, longitudinal cracks in the epidermis and not rising 

 much above it, subglobose, 350-400 <>. diam. , brownish-black, rough, 

 collapsing, with a small, papilliform ostiolum. Asci cylindrical, 

 short-stipitate, 100-110x8-10//, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, 3-5-septate, mostly constricted in the 

 middle, one or more of the inner cells divided by a longitudinal 

 septum, hyaline at first, tardily becoming pale yellow-brown, 15-20 

 x 6-8 [i. 



Sphaerella Niootianae E. & E. 



On living bark of Nicotiana. Hollister, Gala., Dec, 1894. W. 

 C. Blasdale. 



Perithecia, mostly on light- colored spots, subcuticular, globose, 

 80-100 p. diam,, the papilliform ostiolum barely piercing the epi- 

 dermis, and soon deciduous, leaving the perithecia perforated above. 

 Asci oblong-obovate, sessile, aparaphysate, 35-45 x 15-20 //. Sporidia 

 crowded in the asci, oblong-obovate, uuiseptate, hyaline, obtuse, 

 scarcely constricted, 11-13 x 5-6 //. 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Accompanied by a Pleospora not distinguishable from P. Herba- 

 rum (Pers. ). 



Sphserella vagans E. & E. 



On dead stems of Valeriana sylvatied Gray and Castilleia 

 miniata Dougl. 



On the slope of Mt. Richtophen, N. W. Colorado, 9,500 ft. alt. 



Perithecia scattered, subcuticular, becoming superficial by the 

 peeling off of the epidermis, depressed-globose, or subelliptical, of 

 tough, coarse cellular structure, perforated above, 250-300// in the 

 longer diameter. Asci cylindrical, subsessile, p. sp. 55-60 x 7-8 //. 

 Sporidia biseriate, ovate, uniseptate, constricted at the septum, 

 hyaline, 12—16 x 5-7 p.. Mixed with the ascigerous perithecia were 

 spermogouial perithecia containing oblong-elliptical hyaline sporules 

 5-6 x 2 //, but whether belonging to the Sphairella or to Leptosphceria 

 concinna E. & E. found on the same stems, is uncertain. 



Physalospora Corni E. & E. 



On dead twigs of Comus. Fort Collins, Colorado, March 1895. 

 C. F. Baker, No. 329^ 



Perithecia thickly scattered, globose about 200// diam. white inside, 

 covered by the blackened-epidermis, which is raised into pustules 

 barely pierced by the papilliform ostiola. Asci clavate- cylindrical, 

 70-90x11-13//, short-stipitate, aparaphysate. Sporidia biseriate, 

 navicular-fusoid, continuous, hyaline, very slightly curved, 

 20-26 x 4-5 //. 



Didymella Ricini E. & E. 



On dead petioles of Ricinus communis, Louisiana. Langlois, 

 No. 2,414. 



Perithecia gregarious, minute, 110-150//, subcuticular, raising 

 the epidermis into black, flattish pustules resembling a young 

 Vermicularia, scattered singly or sometimes 2-3 in the same pustule, 

 Ostiola inconspicuous. Asci oblong- clavate, very short stipitate, 

 45-55 x 8-10 ii. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, obscurely nucleate, 

 becoming uniseptate, not constricted, curved, obtuse, hyaline, 

 13-18x4-4^/7.. 



There is no stroma or any circumscribing line. 



Didymosphaeria Celtidis E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Celtis occidentalis. Rooks Co., Kansas, May, 

 1895. E. Bartholomew. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Perithecia thickly scattered, globose, small, about 300 //. diameter, 

 covered by the epidermis which is raised into pustules pierced above 

 by the papilliform ostiolum. Asci ventricose- oblong, sessile, 55-60 

 x 18-25//, obscurely .paraphy sate, 8-spored. Sporidia crowded-biser- 

 iate, obovate, uniseptate and slightly constricted, brown, 20x10//, 

 or sometimes regularly elliptical, 20-25x10-12,//, both in the 

 same ascus. 



The asci soon disappear and then the fungus may be mistaken 

 for a Diplodia. 



Pleospora Coloradensis E. & E. 



On dead stems of Polemonium conferfvm Gray. Cameron Pass, 

 N. W. Colo., above timber, July, 1894. C. F. Baker, No. 273. 



Perithecia scattered, subcuticular, subglobose, 200-230//, diam., 

 of coarse, dark cellular structure, with a scanty mycelial fringe 

 around the base. Ostiolum papilliform, or conic- papilliform, per- 

 forating the epidermis. Asci oblong, short-stipitate, 100-130 x 25- 

 30 /'., with paraphyses more or less distinctly branched. Sporidia 

 biseriate, oblong or ovate-elliptical, scarcely or often distinctly con- 

 stricted in the middle, yellow-brown, 6-8-septate and becoming 

 clathrate-muriform, ends mostly rounded and obtuse, 27-35x12- 

 15//., slightly compressed. 



The sporidia much resemble those of P. juncicola E. & E., but are 

 not so much compressed, and the perithecia are smaller than in that 

 species, with walls of finer cellular, structure, having a reddish tinge 

 under the microscope. 



Pleospora juncicola E. & E. 



On dead culms of Juncus balticus, North Park, Colo., July, 1894, 

 alt. 9,000 ft. Prof. C. S. Crandall, No. 75. 



Perithecia scattered or gregarious, depressed-globose, 110—150//. 

 diam., covered by the cuticle, then subemergent. Ostiolum slightly 

 papilliform, soon perforated. Asci oblong, short-stipitate, broadly 

 rounded above, obscurely paraphysate, 75-110x25-30//. Sporidia 

 biseriate, elliptical, compressed, mostly not much constricted in the 

 middle, 25-35 x 15-18 //, and 10-12 // thick, golden-yellow, about 

 7-septate, and when viewed on the flattened sides, densely clathrate- 

 muriform, with about 4 rows of cells 4//. diam., but when seen edge- 

 wise, simply 5— 7-septate. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



Leptosphaeria lethalis E. & E. 



On dead stems of Pentstemon confertus. Latah Co., Idaho, July, 

 1894. Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 330. 



Perithecia erumpent- superficial, gregarious, subglobose, l-l rum. 

 diam., with a papilliform ostiolum. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 50-60 

 x 7-8 //, with abuudaut paraphyses, 8-spored. Sporidia fusoid, 

 slightly curved, 3-septate not constricted, unless slightly so at the 

 middle septum, 50-60 x 3£-4 p. 



The perithecia appear on the living stems which are soon black- 

 ened and killed. 



Leptosphaeria concinna E. & E. 



On dead stems of Castilleia miniata Doug. Mt. Richtophen, N. 

 W. Colo., July, 1894. C. F. Baker, No. 271, partly. 



Perithecia scattered, subcuticular, subglobose, 200-300 (i diam., 

 at length semiemergent, but still more or less covered by the black- 

 ened cuticle; ostiolum papilliform. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 70-80 

 x 7-10 fi, paraphysate, short-stipitate. Sporidia biseriate above, 

 fusoid, pale-yellow, 5-septate, slightly curved, one or two of the 

 middle cells slightly swollen, 20-27 x 3-4 //. 



L. Ogilviensis R. Br., has the asci and sporidia larger; in L. 

 tenera Ell., they are smaller, and in L. agnita the sporidia are 6- 

 7- septate and larger. 



Metasphaeria quercina E. & E. 



On dead twigs of Quercus coccinea, var. tindoria. Newfield, N. J. , 

 June, 1895. 



Perithecia gregarious, buried, globose, 250-300 />. diam. , raising 

 the blackened epidermis into pustules pierced at the apex by the 

 papilliform ostiolum. Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, 170-190 x 

 12 <>.. Paraphyses filiform, shorter than the asci. Sporidia uniseri- 

 ate, oblong, 3-septate, and constricted at the septa, hyaline, 20 x 7- 



9 i±. 



Differs from M. Fiedleri (Niessl), in its cylindrical asci and cyl- 

 indrical-oblong, not fusoid, straight sporidia. 



Ophiobolus Helianthi E. & E. 



On dead stems of Hellanthus Maximiliani. Rockport, Kansas, 

 March, 1895. Bartholomew, No. 1,681. 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, ovate-globose, about | 

 mm. diam. Asci clavate-cylindrical, p. sp. 40x7-8/7, paraphysate, 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



8-spored. Sporitlia fasciculate, elongated-fusoid, brownish in the 

 asci, nearly hyaline when free, 3-septate, not constricted, nearly 

 straight, about 40 x 3 £—4 //. 



Ophiobolus purpureus E. & E. 



On dead steins of some Umbelliferous plant, on Mt. Richtophen, 

 N. W. Colo., alt. 9,500 ft., Aug 1894. C. F. Baker, No. 277. 



Perithecia gregarious, buried on parts of the stems stained purple- 

 red, ovate-globose, about 250 //. diam. , covered by the blackened 

 epidermis which is raised into slight pustules and pierced by the 

 prominent-papilliform ostiolum. Asci clavate-cylindrical, sessile, 

 paraphysate, obtuse, 80-100x12-15/-/.. Sporidia crowded, elon- 

 gated-fusoid, moderately curved, about 6-septate, 50-65 x 5-6 //, one 

 cell, near the middle, swollen, yellowish-brown. 



Differs from O. porphyrogonus (Tode) and O. consimilis E. & E. 

 in its broader asci and sporidia. O. fulgidus C. & P. has the peri- 

 thecia emergent and no swollen joint in the sporidia. 



Thyridium pallidum E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Rhus glabra. Rooks Co., Kansas, May 1895. 

 Bartholomew No. 1,711. 



Perithecia scattered, depressed-globose, about I mm. diam., sunk 

 in the surface of the inner bark, dirty white above, covered by the 

 epidermis which is perforated by the conic- papilliform, amber-colored 

 ostiola, but not raised into pustules. Asci cylindrical, 110-130 x 

 12//, short-stipitate, paraphysate. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong- 

 elliptical, 8-septate, constricted, in the middle, the cells mostly divided 

 by a longitudinal septum, yellow-brown, 20-22 x8-10//. 



There is no outward indication of the fungus except the numerous, 

 small round perforations in the epidermis, but when this is stripped 

 off, the surface of the inner bark is seen to be dotted with the round, 

 pallid, slightly prominent apices of the perithecia. 



Anthostomella albocincta E. & E. 



On dead culms of Arundinaria, Louisiana. Langlois. 



Perithecia sunk in the unaltered substance of the culm, without any 

 stroma or any circumscribing line, globose, 500-600// diam., with 

 thick, coriaceous walls. Ostiola erumpent, globose, often collapsing, 

 surrounded by the slightly raised, whitened epidermis. Asci cylin- 

 drical, stipitate, p. sp. 80-100x6-7//. Paraphyses evanescent. 

 Sporidia uniseriate, mostly overlapping, subfusoid- oblong, scarcely 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



curved, 13-16x35-4//., brown with a hyaline, minute, subglobose 

 appendage at the lower end. The perithecia are mostly scattered 

 singly, but here and there they are collected in groups of 3-4, with 

 their ostiola collected - in a fascicle. 



This differs from A. stegophora (Mont. ) in its scattered or grouped 

 not, seriate, perithecia, and in its permanently oblong appendic- 

 ulate sporidia ; from A. Bambusce Lev. in the absence of any stroma. 



Valsa leucopsis E. & E. 



On bark of Fraxinus viridisl Cody, Nebraska, March 28, 1893. 

 Rev. J. M. Bates. Comm. Prof. Thos. A. Williams. 



Stroma, depressed-conical, f-1 mm. diam., orbicular, consisting of 

 the nearly unaltered substance of the bark, the flattened apex erum- 

 pent and snow-white. Perithecia 6-12, circinate in the bottom of the 

 stroma, about 150 // diam., abruptly contracted above into slender 

 necks, their black, puuctiform ostiola, erumpent through the snow- 

 white disk but not exserted. Asci elavate-cylindrical, 22-27 x 

 5-6;/. Sporidia biseriate above, allantoic!, hyaline, slightly 

 curved, 5— 6Jxl— li^t 



Has the outward appearance of Valsa leucostoma (Pers. ) or V. 

 nivea (Hoff. ), but the asci and sporidia are smaller and there is no 

 conceptacle enclosing the stroma, besides the different habitat. 



Eutypella alpina E. & E. 



On dead trunks of Alnus incana. Larimer Co., Colo., July 1895. 

 Alt. 7,000 ft. C. F. Baker, No. 363. 



Stroma seated on the wood, depressed conical, orbicular or 

 elliptical, 3-4 mm. diam., white inside, enclosed in a stout, black, 

 subcarbonaceous shell, circumscribed by a black line penetrating the 

 wood. Perithecia 20-30 in a stroma, monostichous, crowded, ovate- 

 globose, i mm. diam., necks slender, rising through the white 

 substance of tbe stroma and terminating in a compact fascicle of 

 stout, subglobose, quadrisulcate ostiola erumpent through transverse 

 cracks in the epidermis or closely surrounded by it. Asci, p. sp. , 

 22-24 x 4-5 ,»., long stipitate, with stout, nucleate paraphyses 

 exceeding them in length. Sporidia subbiseriate, allantoid, yellowish, 

 moderately curved, 7-10 x 1^-2 ,".. 



Differs from E. similis (Karst.) in its larger sporidia from E. 

 alnifraga ( Wahl.) in the shorter spore-bearing part of the asci, and 

 from both in the much more numerous perithecia. 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Eutypella herbicola E. & E. 



On dead stems of Aster cordifolius. Ohio. Morgan No. 1,122. 



Stroma elongated, 5 or more cm. long, and 2-3 mm. wide, slaty- 

 black outside, circumscribed by a black line which penetrates deeply 

 into the substance of the stem. Perithecia globose, 300-450 // diam. 

 not deeply buried, lying either singly or 3-10 together in valsoid 

 groups. Ostiola erumpent, tuberculo-globose or short- cylindrical 

 with their tips swollen, quadrisulcate. Asci, p. sp., fusoid-clavate, 

 30-35 x 5-6 ,"., with a slender stipe. Paraphyses obscure or none. 

 Sporidia allantoid, yellowish, slightly curved, obtuse, 6-8 x lf-2 //. 



Differs from E. cerviculata (Pers. ) in its partly scattered perithecia 

 and herbicolous growth, in which respect it approaches Cryptosphwria. 



Diatrypella Fraxini E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Fraxinus viridis. Rooks Co., Kansas, July, 

 1895. E. Bartholomew, No. 1,783. 



Stroma cortical and convex, 2-3 mm. diam., formed of the 

 slightly altered substance of the bark, without any distinct circum- 

 scribing line. Perithecia 8-12 in a stroma, globose, 250-300// 

 diam., ostiola united in a brownish-black, erumpent disk, only 

 slightly projecting, becoming 4-cleft. Asci clavate, 110x12//, 

 long-stipitate, paraphysate, polysporous. Sporidia crowded, allant- 

 oid, yellowish-hyaline, curved, 6—8 x lf-2//. 



The stromata raise the bark into distinct pustules, to the sides of 

 which the lobes of the ruptured epidermis closely adhere. 



Melogramma boreale E. & E. 



On bark of dead Abies, Newfoundland. Waghorue. 



Stromata gregarious, erumpent, bordered by the lacerated, up- 

 turned epidermis, suborbicular or irregular, 1-2 mm. diam., or by 

 confluence subflexuous, black, roughened above by the prominent, 

 obtuse ostiola. Perithecia buried in the stroma, not numerous. 

 Asci clavate-cylindrical, 75-80x12//, with a short stipe, paraphy- 

 sate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, clavate-oblong or ovate-oblong, 

 uniseptate and constricted in the middle, each cell finally becoming 

 uniseptate, slightly narrowed toward each end, but not acute, 1*0- 

 13x3J-4i //. 



Resembles M. Hibisci ( Schw. ). 



Hypoxylon Californicum E. & E. 



On wood of Adenostylum fasdculatum, Pasadena, Cala., Aug., 

 1894. Prof. A. J. McClatchie, No. 755. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



Stroma interruptedly effused continuous for 2-4 cm., or subro- 

 bicular, i-1 cm. across, about 1 mm. thick, margin abrupt, some- 

 times the upper edge slightly projecting, conidial layer rusty-red, 

 same color as in H. perforatum (Schw.) Perithecia monostichous, 

 ovate, %-i mm., the apices only slightly prominent, with small, 

 papilliform ostiolum, finally perforated. Asci cylindrical, rather 

 long-stipitate, abundantly paraphysate, 8-spored, p. sp. 90-110x7 

 -8 ix. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-navicular, 14-18 x 6-7 ft, yellow- 

 ish at first, with a single large central nucleus, finally opake. 



Distinguished from H. rubiginosum (Pers.), by its larger sporidia. 



Phyllachora Plantaginis E. & E. 



On leaves of Plantago Rugelii, Racine, Wis., Oct., 1894. Dr. J. 

 J. Davis, No. 943. 



Kpiphyllous, gregarious, on dead areas of the leaf, convex-hemis- 

 pherical, black, \—i mm. diam., or 2-3 confluent and then larger, 

 base innate in the surface of the leaf, apex papilliform. Cells filled 

 with oblong, hyaline, 2-nucleate stylospores 6-8 x 2-2£ //. Asci not 

 yet formed. 



Evidently the early stage of Phy/lachora. 



Dothidella longissima (Pers.) E. & E. 



Sphaeria longissima Pers., Syn. p. 31. Phoma longissima West. 

 Not. Ill, p. 13. 



Perithecia densely gregarious, seated on a thin, black subiculum 

 forming long, narrow, black, ribbon-like strips 1-1 h mm. wide, 

 extending from node to node on the stems, minute, slightly prom- 

 inent, not confluent, covered at first by the blackened epidermis. 

 Ostiola inconspicuous, or minutely papilliform. Asci oblong, 40 x 

 7-9 p., nearly sessile, paraphysate. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, uni- 

 septate, but scarcely constricted, obtuse, hyaline, 12-15 x 3* p.. 



On dead stems of Chenopodi um album, Kansas. Bartholomew & 

 Shear. 



Homostegia coscinodisca E. & E. 



On bark of birch trees. Newfoundland. Waghorne. 



Stromata erumpent-superficial, discoid- pulvinate, J-f mm. diam., 

 pierced above with 6-8 small round openings but without any promi- 

 nent ostiola. Ascigerous cells about 75 p. diam. , with thin subhy- 

 aline walls so that they are not easily distinguished. Asci oblong, 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895- 



subsessile, 55-60x12-15/;., aparaphysate, 4-8 spored. Sporidia 

 mostly biseriate, varying from elliptical to oblong and 8-22 x 8-1 0//.; 

 3-septate and constricted at the septa, especially at the middle one, 

 where they readily separate, obtuse at the ends, hyaline. Belongs in 

 Saccardo's subdivision Roumegueria and allied to, but apparently 

 different from H. durissima Berk. 



Ciboria Liquidambaris E. & E. 



On decaying capsules of IAquidambar. Naamans Creek, Delaware, 

 May 1895. A. Commons, No, 2,710. 



Gregarious stipitate, 4-5 mm. high. Ascoma about 2 mm. broad, 

 orbicular, convex and brownish when dry, margin paler, Stipe, 

 white or dirty-white, puberulent. Asci clavate, stipitate, 75-80 x 

 7-8 ii, with filiform paraphyses. Sporidia subbiseriate, oblong, 

 hyaline, continuous, 8-11 x 3 //. 



Mollisia Asolepiadis E. & E. 



On dead stems of Asclepias. London, Canada, July, 1895. 

 DeamessNo. 2,283. 



At first covered by the epidermis, then erumpent-superficial, orbic- 

 ular, f mm. diam., pale slate-color, margin coarsely toothed or sub- 

 entire, plano-convex, much shrunken when dry. Asci cylindrical, 

 short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, 55-60x6,".. Sporidia mostly 

 biseriate, subinequi laterally elliptical, 2-nucleate, hyaline, 

 8-10 x 3 ;• 



Closely allied to Peziza abdita Ell. but disk darker, sporidia 

 broader and ascoma not as completely withdrawn beneath the epi- 

 dermis when dry. 



Cenangium conglobatum E. & E. 



On dead limbs of some deciduous tree or shrub. Bay of Islands, 

 West Coast of Newfoundland, July 1895. Rev. A. C. Waghorne, 

 No. 42. 



Densely cespitose, forming compact tufts or balls 3-4 mm. diam. 

 Ascomata cup-shaped, stag-color or ferruginous inside and out, 

 margin light-colored and fringed with short, pale, smooth hairs, 

 outside granulose-pilose. Asci clavate-cylindrical, sessile, 8-spored, 

 30x5-6;/. Sporidia subbiseriate, allantoid, 2-nucleate, hyaline, 

 obtuse, slightly curved, 5-6] x 2-2J ,"• Paraphyses filiform, with 

 a knob-like thickening at the tips. Asci and paraphyses have a 

 ferruginous tint. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



Chlorosplenium striisporum Ell. & Dearness. 



On decaying leaves. London, Canada, July 1<S95. Dearness 

 No. 2,281." 



Sessile, hemispherical, 1-1 2 mm. diam., greenish-yellow, thin, 

 hemispherical, with the margin incurved and toothed, rough verru- 

 cose-squamose outside, pale yellow inside, substance soft-car nose. 

 Asci clavate-cylindrical, stipitate, p. sp. 70-75 x 15-20/*. Paraphy- 

 3es filiform, longer than the asci. Sporidia irregularly crowded in 

 the asci, elliptical, smooth and hyaline at first, pale-brown and 

 longitudinally striate when mature, 15-20 x 9-11 //.. 

 Cenangella abietina E. & E. 



On bark of dead Abies. Newfoundland. Waghorne. 



Ascomata erumpent-superficial, gregarious, black, orbicular, 

 about ? mm. diam. with the margin thin and suberect. Asci 

 clavate-cyclindrical subsessile, 60-75 x 12 //, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 biseriate, ovate-elliptical, yellowish, becoming brown, 2-nucleate, 

 becoming uniseptate, 12—18 x 6-7 //.. 



Patellea hysteric-ides E. & E. 



On weather-beaten pine lumber. Rooks Co., Kansas. E. 

 Bartholomew. 



Ascomata erumpent-superficial, i-i mm. diam., black, the opposite 

 sides incurved, when dry, so as to give the appearance of a 

 Hysterium with an open disk. Asci obovate, 30-35 x 20 >>■, with 

 a short, nodular stipe. Paraphyses united above into a black or 

 purplish-black epithecium. Sporidia crowded, obovate, uniseptate 

 and constricted, 14-18 x 8-10 //., ends rounded and obtuse hyaline. 



P. stygia (B. & C.) is said to have the sporidia subattenuated at 

 each end, which is not the case with this species. 

 Duplicaria acuminata E. & E. 



On culms of Juncus Drummondii, Cameron Pass, Colo., July, 

 1894. Prof. C. S. Crandall, No. 83. 



Ascomata scattered, shield-shaped, |-1 mm. diam. astomous, con- 

 vex when moist, collapsing and wrinkled or ridged when dry, black 

 and shining, manner of dehiscence not seen. Asci clavate-cylin- 

 drical, obtuse at the apex, gradually narrowed to the base, 80-110 

 x 11-12//, paraphyses none. Sporidia 8 in an ascus, irregularlv 

 crowded, bifusoid, i.e. consisting of two fusoid sporidia joined end to 

 end, 30-35 x 2J— 3 p., hyaline, acuminate at each end, but more dis- 

 tinctly so below. 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



D. Empetri Fckl. has the sporidia larger 58 x 6 p. and obtuse 

 at the ends. D. Cochinchinensis K. & H. has sporidia shorter and 

 broader. 



Phyllosticta amicta E & E. 



On leaves of Aretostaphylos viscida and A. Manzanita, Jackson, 

 Amador County, Cala., 1894. Geo. Hansen, Nos. 129 and 130. 



Spots cinereous, with a narrow, reddish-purple border, orbicular, 

 3-4 mm. diam. Perithecia amphigenous, erurapent, depressed- 

 globose, 120-200 /j. diam. , overrun with a hyphomycetous growth, 

 Alfernaria, which also spreads more or less over the surface of the 

 leaf. Sporules ovate or elliptical, 7-10 x 5-6 p., light straw-yellow. 



On A. Manzanita the perithecia are scattered over reddish-brown 

 dead parts of the leaf, mostly the upper half, without any definite 

 spots. The Alternaria has conidia composed of globose, brown cells 

 7-8 fi. diam. , joined in toruloid threads, or collected in irregular 

 shaped masses, or forming concatenate conidia 10-30 x 8-20 p. 



Phyllosticta Trillii E & E. 



On leaves of Trillium petiolatum, Pullman, Wash., June, 1894. 

 Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 341. 



Spots small, 2—3 mm., round, dirty- brown, grayish in the center, 

 margin darker, with a yellowish- shaded border. Perithecia innate, 

 epiphyllous, globose, about 75 p diam. Sporules oblong, hyaline, 

 continuous, 10-14 x 2-2? p. On the same spots is a Cladosporium 

 C. Trillii E. & E. Tufts effused, slate-color. Hyphae septate, 

 brown, 60-70x5-6//. Conidia oblong, brown, 1-3-septate, 15-22 

 x 5-7 p. 

 Phyllosticta Rudbeckiae E & E. 



On leaves of Rudbeckia laciniata, Kenosha Co., Wis., Sept., 1894. 

 Dr. J. J. Davis, No. 942. 



Spots nearly black, irregular subelliptical or suborbicular, J-f 

 cm. diam., definite with the border dai*ker than the center. Peri- 

 thecia epiphyllous, scattered, black, small, hemispheric-prominent. 

 Sporules oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, straight or slightly curved, 

 obtuse, 8-12x2-21 a. 



Phyllosticta solitaris E & E. 



On leaves of Pirus coronaria, Crawfordsville, la., Oct., 1893. 

 Prof. L. M. Underwood. 



Spots minute, 1 mm., round, pale-white, with a darker border. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



Perithecia epiphyllous, solitary, one in the center of each spot, 75 //. 

 diam. Sporules subglobose, hyaline, nucleate, 5-6// diam. 



Phyllosticta castanicola E. & E. 



On leaves of Castanea ehrysophylla, Sisson, Cala., July, 1894. 

 Prof. Marshall A. Howe, No. 122. 



Spots epiphyllous, dark-brown, suborbicular, 2-5 mm. diam., with 

 a narrow, dark, subfimbriate border, scarcely visible on the lower 

 face of the leaf. Perithecia crowded on the spots, buried in the sub- 

 stance of the leaf, hard and tough, orbicular or elliptical, 80-100 >j. 

 diam., sometimes 2—3 confluent, the apex erumpent and broadly 

 perforated. Sporules abundant, minute, oblong, 3-3? x 1 \— 1? /<, 

 hyaline. The tough, almost sclerotioid perithecia indicate that this 

 may be the stylosporous stage of some Phyllachora, or other dothide- 

 aceous fungus. Very different from Ph. Castaneae E. & E. 



Asteroma infuscans E & E. N. A. F. 3.361. 



On dead stems of Iva xanthifoliit, Fort Collins, Colo., Feb., 1895. 

 C. F. Baker, No. 234. 



Fibrils appressed, branched, radiate, at length often disappearing, 

 leaving the surface of the stem blackened for several 5-10 cm. in 

 extent, the blackened areas mostly surrounding the stem and more 

 or less distinctly limited. Perithecia abundant, pustuliform, per- 

 forated above, 90-150 p. diam. Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline, 

 continuous, 3-5 x 1-1 J fi. 



Asteroma Parkinsoniae E. & E. 



On pods of Parkinsonia Torreyana, Tucson, Arizona, Sept., 1893. 

 Prof. J. W. Tourney, No. 14. 



Perithecia emergent-superficial, subdepressed, 150,". diam., at first 

 a single one seated in the center of an appressed, gray, radiating 

 mycelium, at length smaller perithecia appear along the radiating 

 arms of the hyphae. Sporules oblong, hyaline, 2-3-nucleate, 15— 

 20 x 5-7 ft, ends obtusely rounded. 



Aposphaeria Ohiensis E. & E. 



On rotten wood. Ohio. Morgan, No. 1,068. Perithecia gregar- 

 ious, depressed-globose, minute, 150//, papillate. Sporules oblong- 

 elliptical, continuous, hyaline, 2|-3 x 1 p., borne on stout, fascicu- 

 late basidia 10—12 x l?-2 <>. below, slightly tapering above. 



Dothiorella fraxinicola E. & E. 



On bark of dead Fraximis. Long Pine, Nebraska, June, 1895. 

 Rev. J. M. Bates. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Perithecia erumpent-superficial, densely gregarious, or here and 

 there collected in botryoid clusters connected by an imperfect stroma, 

 i-J mm. diam., with a papilliform or short-cylindrical ostiolum, 

 finally collapsing above and broadly perforated. Sporules oblong- 

 fusoid, 18-30 x 6-7 //., hyaline, continuous, on slender basidia about 

 as long as the sporules. 



Differs from D. Fraxini E. & E., and from D. fraxinea Sacc. 

 and Roum. in its larger perithecia and its differently shaped spor- 

 ules. 



Dothiorella Crataegi E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Crataegus oxyacantha, London, Canada, May, 

 1895. J. Dearness, 1,291 (b). 



Stromata gregarious, erumpent, black; flattened pulvinate 2-I2 

 mm. or more in diameter. Perithecia small, 2-20 in a stroma. 

 Ostiola papilliform. Sporules elliptical, smoky or subolivaceous- 

 hyaline, 18-20 x 10-15//. on stout basidia, but soon deciduous. 

 Fusicoccum quercinum E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Quercus coccinea, var. tinctoria, Newfield, N. J., 

 March, 1895. . 



Stromata numerous, scattered, subcuticular, tuberculo-convex, 

 seated on the surface of the inner bark, erumpent and loosely sur- 

 rounded by the ruptured epidermis, about 1 mm. diam,, white or 

 whitish inside, obscurely multilocular, enclosed in an outer, coriace- 

 ous coat, which is irregularly ruptured above. Sporules fusoid, 

 hyaline, continuous, mostly 2-nucleate, subobtuse, 10-15 x 3-3* //. 

 Associated with Botryosphaeria fuliginosa (M. & N.). 



Diplodia oelastrina E. & E. 



On dead stems of Celastrus scandens, Rockport, Kansas, Jan. 10, 

 1895. Bartholomew, No. 1,646. 



Perithecia buried in the blackened substance of the inner bark 

 small li mm., either singly or in groups, raising and rupturing 

 the epidermis, but not erumpent, though visible, minutely papillose. 

 Sporules variable ; mostly oblong-cylindrical, or clavate- oblong, 

 uniseptate, but scarcely constricted, dark-brown, almost opake, 18- 

 22 x 7-8 //, others regularly elliptical, lighter brown, smaller 16- 

 20 x 7-8 fi, and deeply constricted. 



The shape and size of the elongated sporules is almost the same 

 as figured by Starback for those of Cytopled propulfans Schw., 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



b<ut the arrangement of the perithecia is different and sporules 



septate. 



Diplodia Umbellulariae E. & E. 



On dead twigs and limbs of Umbellularia Californica, Pasadena, 

 Gala., Aug., 1894. Prof. A. J. McClatchie. 



Perithecia scattered singly or oftener in short series of 3-6, bedded 

 in the blackened, almost stromatic, substance of the inner bark and 

 raising and splitting the epidermis into short, longitudinal cracks, 

 through which their minute, papilliform ostiola are barely visible, 

 150-200 ,'/. diam., whitish inside. Sporules elliptical, broadly con- 

 stricted at the septum, dark-brown obtuse, 16-20 x 8-10, a, on pedi- 

 cels about as long as the sporules. 



Similar but smaller perithecia on the same limbs produce, oblong- 

 elliptical, pale-brown, 8-1 Ox 4-5 // sporules Coniothecium Umbellu- 

 lariae E. & E. . Other perithecia contain oblong, 5-septate sporules 

 25-30x7-9//-, on hyaline pedicels 8-12 /j. long terminal; cells of 

 sporules hyaline, intermediate ones olive-brown. Hendersonia Um- 

 bellulariae E. & E. 



Diplodia officinalis E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Sassafras officinalis, New Brunswick, N. J. 

 Prof. B. D. Halsted. Michigan, G. H. Hicks. 



Perithecia evenly but thickly scattered, subepidermal, depressed- 

 globose, 150-200// diam., covered by the blackened epidermis 

 which is raised into distinct pustules pierced at the apex by the 

 papilliform ostiola. Sporules oblong, dark-brown, septate in the 

 middle, but not constricted, 15-22 x 7-8 //.. 



Differs from D. Sassafras Tr. & E. in its larger sporules septate 

 in the middle, and in growing on dead, instead of living limbs. 



Botryodiplodia ostiolata E. & E. 



On bark of dead Quercus alba. Ohio. Morgan No. 1,051. 



Perithecia fasciculate, 12-20 together, conic-cylindrical, 1-1 £ 

 mm. long, white inside, joined at base in a black, subcuticular 

 stroma, erumpent through the thick epidermis, and when growing 

 on the side of a log or limb, curving upward. Sporules elliptical, 

 20-25 x 11-12 ix, uniseptate, brown. 



Ascochyta zeicola E. & E. 



On old stalks of Zea Mays, Newfield, N. J., May, 1895. 

 Perithecia gregarious, on slightly darker, irregular shaped or 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



subelongated areas of the stalk, suberumpent. pierced above, 10(i— 

 150// diam. Sporules oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, yellowish in the 

 mass, uniseptate, not constricted, obtuse, 6— 8 x 1J— 2 /v.. 



Very different from A. zeina Sacc. which is on the leaves and has 

 sporules 18x7 //. 

 Diplodina Coloradensis E. & E. 



On dead stems of Gutierrezia Euthamiae, Fort Collins, Colo, 

 March, 1895. C. F. Baker, No. 333. 



Perithecia subgregarious, often subseriate, erumpent-superficial, 

 small, about 200//., black and shining, subglbose, with a papilliform 

 ostiolum. Sporules oblong, obtuse, uniseptate, but mostly not con- 

 stricted, smoky-hyaline, 6-8 x 2?-3 ,«. 



Near D. Galii Niessl, but apparently distinct; that species having 

 ovate, constricted sporules. 

 Septoria variegata E. & E. 



On leaves of Rhamnus Purshiana, Shasta Springs, Siskyou Co., 

 Cala., Aug., 1894. W. C. Blasdale. 



Spots numerous, dark rusty-brown, becoming light rusty-brown, 

 2-8 mm. diam., with a small, white spot in the center, or in the 

 larger spots, with numerous white spots arranged so as to present a 

 zonate or marbled appearance, as in Septoria musiva Pk. Peri- 

 thecia epiphyllous, but often visible below, seated on the small white 

 spots, broadly open above, 100-110 /». diam. Sporules clavate-cyl- 

 indrical, irregularly curved, hyaline, nucleate, becoming 3-septate, 

 25-55 x 3-43 :>.. 



Seems to be quite distinct from all the other species on Rhamnus. 

 On account of the imperfectly developed perithecia, this approaches 

 Cy lindrosporium . 

 Septoria Asplenii E. & E. 



On leaves- of Asplenium angustifolium, Mich. Ag. College, 1891. 

 G. H. Hicks. Comm., Mr. L. N. Johnson. 



Spots dull dirty-white, with a broad reddish-brown border, 3-4 

 mm. wide, including border. Perithecia sparingly scattered on 

 the spots, small, 65-75 //, pale-brown, perforated above, only 

 slightly prominent. Sporules filiform, continuous, "several-sep- 

 tate" (sec. Mr. Hicks), curved, subequal, hyaline or greenish-hya- 

 line, 35-45 x 1] ,". 

 Septoria ourvispora E. & E., N.A.F., 3,270. 



On leaves of Acer glabrum, Shasta Springs, Cala., Aug., 1894 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



W. C. Blasdale and Septoria macrophylli E. & E., MS., on leaves 

 of A'-cr macrophyllum, Seattle, Wash., Aug., 1894, Prof. C. V. 

 Piper, should be considered as mere varieties of Septoria circinata 

 E. & E., Proc. Phil. Acad., 1894, p. 367. 

 Amerosporium cinctum E. & E. 



On dead stems of Gladiolus, Pasadena, Gala., Aug., 1894. Prof. 

 A. J. McClatchie, No. 793. 



Perithecia superficial, applanate, 100-150;/ diam., membrana- 

 ceous, of cellular texture, broadly open above, fringed around the 

 base with spreading, smoky-hyaline, continuous, simple or sparingly 

 branched hairs, 80-120x3//. Sporules short-elliptical, smoky- 

 hyaline, obtuse, 3?-5 x 2-2? ,a. 



Besides the subhyaline hairs that fringe the perithecia, other 

 branching brown threads creeping on the surface of the Gladiolus 

 stem, bear ovate, brown, conidia 1 -septate at first, then 2-3-septate 

 and submuriform, or sarcinuliform, 12-15 x 7-12 ;/. 



Phleospora Californica E. & E. 



On leaves of Acer Californicum, Contra Costa Co. Cala., July, 

 1895. W. C. Blasdale. 



Acervuli on small, 2-3 mm., pale, indefinite spots thickly scat- 

 tered over the leaf, covered, especially on the upper side of the leaf, 

 by the black, subclypeate perithecia which are obsolete or unde- 

 veloped below. Sporules cylindrical, mostly straight, 1-3-septate, 

 20-35 x 3 ■> —4 ^ //, hyaline, not constricted, expelled in white filiform 

 cirrhi on both sides of the leaf. 



Differs from Phi. Aceris (Lib.), in its black-capped acervuli and 

 white cirrhi. 

 Gloeosporium castanicolum E. & E. 



On leaves of Castanea vesca, lying on the ground, Faulkland, Del., 

 Aug., 1887. A. Commons. 



Amphigenous but mostly hypophyllous, on light-colored spots or 

 areas of the leaf, also on and alongside of the midrib. Acervuli 

 numerous, minute, yellowish, erumpent. Conidia fusoid, subobtuse, 

 slightly curved, 20 x 2-2^ //.. 



On the one leaf examined was an abundance of Discosia artocreas 

 (Tode) forming conspicuous, suborbicular, black patches. 

 Cylindrosporium Khamni E. & E. 



On leaves of Rhamnus, sp., Shasta Springs, Cala. W. C. Bias- 

 dale, No. 283. 

 30 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Spots small, 1 mm. , white, subconcentrically arranged on larger, 

 definite brown spots, 3-5 mm. diam. Acervuli epiphyllous, erumpent, 

 seated on the white spots, black, 150-200 // diam. Conidia cylin- 

 drical, curved, obtuse, nucleate, hyaline, 35-45 x 3s-4i fi. 



Marsonia Rhamni E. & E. 



On leaves of Rhamnus Purshiana, Renton, Wash., Aug. 9, 1894. 

 Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 59. 



Spots suborbicular, \— 1 cm., whitish in the center, with a broad, 

 dark-purplish border. Acervuli epiphyllous, but also visible below, 

 flesh-colored, 200-250 ,a diam. Conidia oblong or elliptic-oblong, 

 uniseptate, hyaline, 6-8 x 2J— 3 /*, not constricted at the septum. 



Marsonia rubiginosa E. & E. 



On leaves of Salixt Idaho, 1802. A. J. Mulford. 



Spots numerous, small, about 1 mm. diam., or by confluence 

 more, rusty-brown, without any distinct border, more clearly defined 

 on the upper side of the leaf. 



Acervuli numerous, 100-150 ,u diam., amphigenous, but mostly 

 erumpent below. Conidia elongated-piriform, hyaline, uniseptate 

 near the lower end, often slightly curved, acute below, 11-13 x 2]- 

 4£ ;>.. Spores smaller and spots different from any of the other 

 species on willow leaves. Comes nearest M. salidcola Bres. 



Melanconium crinigerum E. & E. 



On bark of dead maple. Ohio, Morgan 1,130. 



Ascervuli subcutaneous, convex, slate-color, 2-3 mm. diam. 

 Conidia, ovate, elliptical or subglobose 25-40 x 22-30 ,", loosely 

 fibrillose, issuing in black cirrhi which resemble tufts of black wool. 

 Found also on maple at Potsdam, N. Y. 

 Melanconium Alni C. & E. 



Sphaeropsis Alni C. & E., Grev. V., p. 50. 



On living bark of Alum serrulata, Newfield, N. J. and on Alnus 

 rhombifolia, Pasadena, Cala., August 1894. Prof. A. J. 

 McClatchie. 



Acervuli perithecioid, minute, ' mm., buried in the inner bark, 

 subeircinate, filled at first with an abundance of subglobose, hyaline 

 sporules 3-4 a diam., and later on producing elliptical or oblong- 

 elliptical, obtuse, brown conidia resembling those of a Sphaeropsis, 

 and borne on stout basidia about 15//. long, 20-25 x 12-15 ,». 



The conidia from each group of acervuli are discharged through a 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



common orifice and form heaps of spores resembling perithecia. The 

 Newfield specc. are younger and not as well matured but show the 

 same general characters as the California specc. 



Sphaewpsls Alni C. & E. in Krieger's Saxon Fungi No. 847, is a 

 true Sphaeropsis and different from this. 



Ovularia lotophaga E. & E. 



Ou living leaves of Lotus Torreyi. Sissou, Cala. , July 1894; 

 W. C. Blasdale, No. 288. 



Spots irregular or suborbicular, 2-3 mm. diam., grayish-brown, 

 with a narrow, darker border. Hyphae subfasciculate, hyaline, con- 

 tinuous, simple or sparingly branched 15-25 x 2£-3 /i, subgeniculate 

 above. Conidia subglobose or obovate-globose, 7-9 x 5-7 ;>.. 



Ramularia circumfusa E. & E. 



On leaves of Rumex obtusifolius. Oberlin, Ohio, May, 1894. 

 Prof. F. D. Kelsey, No. 133. ' 



Amphigenous. Spots small, 1-2 mm., whitish, with a brown 

 border, thickly scattered over the leaf. Hyphae often issuing from 

 the stomata of the leaf, very long, 100-150 x 2i-3 //., vaguely and 

 loosely branched, distantly septate, hyaline, assurgent, subgeniculate 

 and toothed above, Conidia varying from ovate or oblong-elliptical, 

 5-10 x 2-2jj fi to cylindrical 10-15 x 2-2-2 ,", hyaline, continuous, 

 concatenate. Whether the conidia ever became septate we can 

 not say. 



Differs from B. pratensis Sacc. in its smaller conidia and longer 

 hyphae, and its effused growth, spreading out around the spots so as 

 to form white, orbicular patches 2-3 mm. diam. 



Ramularia cercosporoid.es E. & E. 



On leaves of Epilobium epicatum. Seattle, Wash. August 1894. 

 Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 290. 



Spots numerous, variable in size from 1-3 mm., often confluent in 

 irregular, subangular patches £-1 cm. diam., dark- purplish, with a 

 dull-whitish center. Hyphae hypophyllous, few in a tuft, arising 

 from a yellow-brown, stromatic base, subgeniculate, continuous or 

 faintly 1-2-septate, brownish-hyaline, nucleate, 30-60 x 3£ ,«. 

 Conidia terminal, oblong-fusoid, hyaline, at first continuous, 

 finally narrowed in the middle and 1, or more, septate, 15- 

 30 x 4-5 ;/-. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Cercosporella Baccharidis E. & E. 



On leaves of Baccharis Douglasii, Berkeley, Cala., June, 1894. 

 W. C. Blasdale. 



Spots suborbicular, 3-4 mm. diam., dirty-brown, greenish at 

 first, mostly wrinkled. Hyphae hypophyllous, cespitose, hyaline, 

 simple, mostly straight and continuous, entire or faintly toothed 

 above, 25-40 x 4 //. Conidia cylindrical, obtuse at both ends, 1-3- 

 septate, hyaline, 40-60 x 4-4 h p.. 



Ceroosporella nivosa E. & E. 



On leaves of Pentstemon Digitalis, Ohio. Morgan, No. 414, and 

 on P. ovatus, Idaho. Piper, No. 297. 



Spots small, round, 1-2 mm., white, with a narrow slightly raised 

 margin surrounded by a purplish discoloration. Hyphae simple, 

 subattenuated above, nucleate, continuous, 12-15 x //, long hyaline 

 above, brownish and more or less swollen below, numerous, seated on 

 a hemispherical, cellular, brownish, sphaeriaform base and bearing at 

 their tips the cylindrical, hyaline conidia, 12-25x1^-2//., nucleate 

 and becoming 1-2-septate. 



Differs from C. Pentstemonis E. & K., in its smaller hyaline 

 conidia and hyphae, white spots, and narrow, thread-like margin. 



Cercospora hibiscina E. & E. 



On leaves of Hibiscus tiliaceus, Mexico, 1895. Dr. E. Palmer, 

 No. 328. 



Hypophyllous. Hyphae sparingly branched, septate, equal, 3] -4 //. 

 diam.. 300-400 \j. long, often undulate above, forming loosely inter- 

 woven, olive- black patches, 2-4 mm. diam. but not on any definite 

 spots. Couidia clavate-cylindrical, hyaline, about 3-septate, 30-50 

 x 3J— 4o ;>.. Apparently the conidial stage of some ascigerous fungus. 



This is very distinct from C. Hibisci Tr. & Earle. 



Cercospora stomatica Ell. & Davis. 



On leaves of Solidcujo latifolia, Somers, Wis., June, 1894. Dr. J. 

 J. Davis. 



Spots irregular, angular, black, with a yellow shade in the sur- 

 rounding green part of the leaf, 3-4 mm. diam. Hyphae hypophyl- 

 lous, issuing in loose tufts of 4-10 from the stomala of the leaf, 32- 

 70x4-7//, 2-3-septate, subgeniculate, nearly straight, pale- brown. 

 Conidia hyaline or yellowish-hyaline* attenuated above, 4-8, or 

 more, septate, straight or slightly curved, 50-150 x 5-6 [jl. 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



Cercospora Grindeliae E. & E. 



On leaves of Grindelia sp. Berkeley, Cala., June 1894. W. C. 

 Blasdale, No. 258. 



Amphigenous, scattered in small, more or less confluent patches 

 over both sides of the leaf. Hyphae tufted, short, simple, continuous, 

 15-35 x 4 fj., subentire, or imperfectly toothed above, subhyaliue. 

 Conidia slender-clavate, yellowish-hyaline, granular and nucleate, 

 becoming faintly 3-6-or more-septate, sometimes constricted at one 

 or more of the septa, and often abruptly enlarged at one end, 

 50-140 x 4-7 ii. 



Cladosporium aromaticum E. & E. 



On living leaves of Rhus aromatica. Pasadena, Cala., August 

 1894. Prof. A. J. McClatchie, No. 779. 



Epiphyllous, scattered, not on any definite spots. Sterile hyphae, 

 scanty, creeping, branched, fertile hyphae scarcely tufted, erect, pale 

 olivaceous, septate and constricted at the septa, subgeniculate, 30-70 

 x5//.. Conidia terminal, concatenate, olivaceous, oblong-cylindrical, 

 uniseptate, not constricted, 12-22', (mostly about 15) x 5//. 



The hyphae thickly scattered over the surface of the leaf give it a 

 smutty appearance. 



Macrosporium toruloides E. & E. 



On dead stems of Urtiea Lyallii. Pullman, Wash., March 1894. 

 Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 320. 



Effused, forming a thin, olive-black, velutiuous layer for several 

 cm. in extent. Hyphae toruloid, closely septate, branched. Conidia 

 variable, 15-40x10-15//, 3-6-septate arid rather sparingly muri- 

 forrn, the smaller ones sarcinuliform, the larger ones obovate, borne 

 on deciduous, closely septate pedicels 25-45 x 5-5 //, enlarged above 

 into the conidia. 



Both the sterile and fertile hyphae are so closely septate as to 

 resemble threads of Torula. 



Sporidesmium punctans E. & E. 



On bark of living limbs of Planera aquatica. St. Laudry, Co., 

 Louisiana, July 1894. Langlois, No. 2,392. 



Punctiform, scattered, conidia cespitose, short stipitate, of various 

 shapes, subglobose, 20-30 //, diam. or often clavate or obpiriform, 

 clathrate-septate, brown, 25-75x12-20//, including the short, 12- 

 20//, septate pedicel. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1895. 



The tufts of conidia form little black specks, which at a casual 

 glance resemble minute perithecia. 



Brachysporium pedunculatum E. & E. 



On dead stems of Sambucus glauca, Pullman, Wash., March 1894. 

 Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 316. 



Tufts punctiform, J-l mm. diam., erumpent and closely bordered 

 by the ruptured epidermis. Sterile hyphae coarse, 6-8 // thick, 

 branching, sparingly septate, crooked, hyaline, intricately inter- 

 woven. Conidia oblong, or the shorter ones ovate, biseptate, but 

 scarcely constricted, brown, borne on short, ovate, brownish basidia 

 2-15 x 6-8 // arising from the prostrate hyphae, but finally separat- 

 ing and remaining permanently attached to the conidia. 



This agrees with the diagnosis of B. biseptatum Sacc. and Roum. 

 only that has dark hyphae ("intense fuligineis") and there is no 

 mention made of the permanent basidia so constantly seen in our 

 Washington species. 



Macrosporium cuoumerinum E. & E. 



On living leaves of Cucumis melo, Las Cruces, New Mexico, Aug., 

 1895. Prof. E. O. Wooton. 



Epiphyllous, on orbicular, subconfluent, rusty-brown spots, 3-4 

 mm. diam., becoming whitish in the center. Hyphae fasciculate or 

 solitary, few in a fascicle, subgeniculate, 1-3-septate, 35-50 x 5-6 // 

 Conidia clavate, sleuder-stipitate, 3-8-septate, scarcely constricted, 

 submuriform, 30-75x15-25,"., pedicel, 25-35 //. long. Nearly 

 allied to Macrosporium Solani E. & M., but differs in its slender- 

 pedicillate, mostly smaller conidia. 



Stemphylium laxum E. & E. 



On dead stems of Bigelovia graveolens, Grand .Junction, Colo., 

 May, 1894. Prof. C. S. Crandall, No. 110. 



Effused, extending for one or more cm. along the stem- and often 

 surrounding it, appearing like a thin, black pubescence. Hyphae 

 decumbent, hyaline, coarse, 8-10// diam., continuous. Conidia, 

 30-50 // diam., subglobose, sometimes two or three connate, made up 

 of globose brown cells, 8-10// diam., loosely compacted and borne 

 either terminally or laterally on the hyphae. 



Differs from S. subradians E. & E. , in its coarser, hyaline hyphae 

 and larger, loosely compacted conidia. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



Stemphylium subradians E. & E. 



On bark of dead limbs of Lonicera involuerata, "Coffee Pot 

 Springs," Colo., Aug., 1894. Alt. 9,500 ft. Prof. C. S. Crandall, 

 No. 93. 



Hyphae decumbent, brown, continuous or faintly septate, 2£-3 ,". 

 diam., radiating from scattered points of attachment to the matrix 

 and forming a loose network. Conidia subglobose, 20-30 //. diam. , 

 composed of globose, brown cells, 5-8;/ diam., and borne on short 

 lateral branches or pedicels, issuing at a right angle from the pros- 

 trate threads. To the naked eye the fungus appears like black, thin, 

 velvety patches indefinitely effused and from 2-10 mm. in extent, 

 often surrounding the limb or twig. 



Stilbomyces n. gen. Fam. Stilbeae. 



Sterile hyphae creeping, scanty, fertile hyphae united in an erect 

 stipe surmounted by a conidiiferous head composed of bundles of 

 rlagelliform, nucleate; conidia. Differs from Stilbum only in its 

 conidia. 



Stilbomyces Berenice E. & E. 



On living bark of Diospyros, Pointe Aux Loups, Acadia Co. , 

 La., Sept., 1894. Langlois, No 2,396 and 2,400. 



Stipe ciiierous-white, 1— 1§ mm. long and about 100// thick, mostly 

 a little curved, slightly attenuated above, and surmounted by a nar- 

 row-elliptical, acute head, a little thicker than the stipe. Conidia 

 rlagelliform, hyaline, about 60," long and 3A-4i >>. thick at the 

 moniliform-nucleate base, constricted between the nuclei, and finally 

 separating into ovate-elliptical, smoky-hyaline joints, 5-7x3-4//, 

 prolonged above into a continuous, hyaline bristle like crest which 

 constitutes about half the length of the conidia. These conidia are 

 united at the base so as to form tufts of 50-100 conidia with their 

 rlagelliform tips spreading out like the bristles of a paint-brush. 

 Fusarium acuminatum E. & E. 



On living steins of Solatium tuberosum, Geneva, N. Y., July, 1895. 

 Prof. S. A. Beach, comm. F. C. Stewart. 



Sporodochia gregarious, minute, white at first, then flesh-colored. 

 Conidia falcate, attenuate-acuminate at each end, 3-5, exceptionally 

 6 septate, not constricted, arising from slightly elongated cells of the 

 proligerous layer, in which respect it differs from the usual type of 

 Fusarium. Quite distinct from F. diplosporum C. & E. , which 

 also occurs on the same host. 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



October 1. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " List of Birds collected in North Greenland by 

 the Peary Expedition of 1891-92," by Witmer Stone, was presented 

 for publication. 



October 8. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 



"Archaeological Work in Ohio." By Gerard Fouke. 



" Certain River-mounds of Duval County, Florida." By Clarence 

 B. Moore. 



"Two Mounds on Murphy Island, Florida." By Clarence B. 

 Moore. 



"Certain Sand Mounds of the Ocklawaha River, Florida." By 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



October 15. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



The deaths'of Dr. A. E. Foote, a member, the 11th inst. , and of 

 Rev. John G. Morris, Charles V. Riley, and Sir John Tomes, F. 

 R. S. , correspondents, were announced. 



October 22. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



One hundred and ninety-one persons present. 



The deaths of Joseph Grenville Norwood and Daniel Kirkwood, 

 correspondents, were announced. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp made a communication on a collecting 

 tour to Alaska, Bering Sea and the Artie Ocean on board the U. 

 S. Revenue Cutter, Bear, during the past summer. (No abstract.) 




1895.] natural, sciences of philadelphia. 443 



October 29. 

 Dr. C. Newlin Peirce in the Chair. 



Ninety-one persons present. 



A paper entitled, " Synopsis of the North American Species of 

 Gorytes Latr," by Win. J. Fox, was presented for publication. 



The death of Louis A. Harlow, M. D., a member, was announced. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of the publication of 

 the following papers in the Journal of the Academy: 



" Certain River-mounds of Duval County, Florida." By Clarence 

 B. Moore. 



"Two Mounds on Murphy Island, Florida." By Clarence B. 

 Moore. 



" Certain Sand Mounds of the Ocklawaha River, Florida." By 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



A preliminary account of the Re-exploration in 1894. and 1895 of 

 the "Bone Hole," now known, as Irwins' Cave, at Port Kennedy, Mont- 

 gomery County, Pennsylvania. Mr. Henry C. Mercer remarked 

 that when Dr. Samuel G. Dixon of the Academy kindly put him in 

 charge of the excavation at Port Kennedy in November of last year, 

 (after Mr. D. N. McCadden, having found fossils in a dump heap, 

 had called attention to the deposit, and after Mr. S. N. Rhoads had 

 excavated there for some time) he, the speaker, soon learned that they 

 were once more at the old so-called " Bone Hole" of Port Kennedy. 

 This was the place referred to by Mr. C. M. Wheatley, who gives a 

 cut of it in the American Journal of Science and Arts for April, 

 1871, and where he collected the bones described by Prof. Cope in the 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society for April, 1871. 

 A recent lowering of the quarry floor had brought the workmen to 

 the same soft place that they had reached twenty-five years before. 

 They were twelve feet deeper than Mr. Wheatley had been at the 

 previous time, in a gallery filled up with stratified rubbish, whose 

 roof, if it had a roof, had been blasted away, whose bottom had 

 never been reached and whose horizontal extent no one can guess. 

 They were not standing in the darkness under a rock arch, but in 

 the open quarry, forty-five feet below the original surface of the hill, 

 at the very bottom of the quarried area, and below its water level, 

 so deep that the drainage hole close by had to be pumped out day and 

 night to keep the floor dry. A great mass of red talus, unfortunately 

 dumped exactly upon the deposit, overhung them ready to fall as 

 the digging went on. 



The explorer was confronted by a vertical bank about twenty-five 

 feet wide by twelve feet high and striped with colored bands of 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



stratification and it was the great number and variety of the bones of 

 animals that protruded from it in all directions that first astonished 

 him. The bones lay in the red clay and black earth with fragments 

 of limestone and bits of shale, broken, crushed, ground into a sort of 

 meal, or flattened by the down-settling of the earth, often ooziug full 

 of water like a soaked sponge, and falling to pieces when touched, 

 so that they had to be cased in shells of plaster of paris, to be 

 removed. All that was seen was scattered and dislocated; no skele- 

 ton lay together, nor had the marks of gnawing teeth been found 

 upon any of the bones to indicate a den of carnivorous beasts, while 

 the kind and proportion of the remains further dispel the latter idea. 

 The country, which for this reason they might infer was thickly 

 wooded, must have been thickly inhabited by sloths, judging from the 

 astonishing number of their bones, and as inferentially from modern 

 species neither this animal nor the tapir, buried with it, endured 

 cold, the climate was probably warm or temperate. Animals large 

 and small, fierce and gentle, lay together, the cumbrous mastodon 

 whose bones had been ground to powder, or dislocated and crushed, 

 at the bottom of the digging along with the rabbit and the turtle. 

 Professor Cope had shown that there were feline carnivores and 

 abundant bears, and they had found the saber- toothed tiger with the 

 bones of birds and the remains of the gentler horse, the beaver, and 

 the llama. What was the power that destroyed the creatures, and 

 what the event that brought toegther their bones and buried them 

 in one place? 



Not to anticipate a description that ought to be very carefully 

 given of the position and contents of this remarkable deposit, of the 

 way the jaws and the teeth, the knuckles and the vertebras of these 

 inhabitants of land and water, earth and air lay together, of the 

 relation of all the bones to the stratified bands of clay and stones, and 

 of the position of the whole with reference to the surface of the hill, 

 and to the other galleries and chambers that had been continually 

 revealed by blasting, let it be said, that every blow of the pick-axe, 

 destroying as much as it saved in the thick mass, revealed the 

 action of water, which, it seems, must have overswept the hill- top 

 since it could not have crept up to do its work by seeking its level 

 through a longer ingress, and which, for other reasons to be explained, 

 must have worked upon a large scale. Was it an immense rising of 

 the river swollen by the down- washing from the glacier? Was it a 

 wider sinking of the whole eastern continental floor when the sea 

 invaded the land during the Champlain period ? If so, where were 

 the marine shells, which thus far the speaker had failed to find? Was 

 it a gradual thing or a sudden and terrible catastropbe, driving to- 

 gether beasts forgetful for the time of their animosities, toward some 

 common refuge. He might refer the carbonizing of the wood to vege- 

 table decomposition; should he appeal to the action of ice to account 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



for great thick blocks of wood, still uudecomposed, cut out of trees, 

 aud though rubbed and rounded in an inexplicable manner, still 

 retaining their bark? Aware that he was probably dealing with 

 a situation such as had never before been presented in the sea- 

 board region, and not certain what might be disclosed at any moment, 

 he had taken the most minute care of all the bones that could be 

 saved, labelling everything at once, according to a system of 

 numbered rectangles painted on the deposit with white- wash so 

 that the exact relative position of each specimen could be recorded 

 and a chart made, if need be, to show the whole series in place at 

 a glance. 



Here was an immense deal of evidence sealed up, every item of 

 which should offer an important clue to the conditions of pleistocene 

 time. The matrixes sent in bulk in boxes, because they contained 

 too many small remains to be opened at the cave, should be studied 

 by a botanist. There were parts of trees, twigs, and possibly grasses, 

 leaves, vines, fibres, nuts and seeds, all as clearly a part of the 

 time and its climate as the animals. 



Several suppositions were necessary to account for what was seen: 



First. This diverse and uncongenial horde of animals must have 

 come together, whether to eat salt, feed, drink, cross a swamp and 

 perish in the mire, fall into a hole, or to take refuge at some point 

 of vantage from some terror of nature. 



Second. They perished, but how? Should the entombment be 

 referred to wholesale destruction by lightning, carcasses dragged 

 into an open cavern by carnivores, or numbers of animals going to 

 one spot to die ? If it was drowning on a large scale, how account 

 for the birds and the turtles? 



Third. The flesh decomposing had left the bones, and the bones 

 themselves had decayed in many instances before they were rede- 

 posited in the cave. This was certain from the fact that no skeletons 

 lay intact. 



Fourth. Water had redeposited the already fleshless and weakened 

 bones in their present position, grinding many of the older and 

 more fragile into a sort of meal, imbedding others comparatively 

 intact in this meal, depositing all in hopeless confusion with clay and 

 stones in stratified bands, and destroying them still farther by the 

 down-settling of the debris after they had reached their present 

 position. 



There seemed to be no mixing of epochs or down- washing of old 

 and new deposits into this deep chasm. Whatever else was inferred 

 from the debris they knew its geological date. They had gone back 

 one geological step, into different conditions of species, and a different 

 climate. If they were to find a paleolithic ape-like savage in 

 eastern North America this was the place to settle his antiquity 

 beyond all reasonable doubt. No trace of humanity had yet been 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



found, but if Man were living at this time they might suppose that 

 the waters which gathered together and poured into this tomb so 

 many living creatures seized him also, and that at some unexpected 

 moment, they should find a piece of his skeleton, or a fragment of 

 his handiwork to prove it. Fort Kennedy represented the meeting 

 ground between anthropology and paleontology, where perhaps from 

 the point of view of the latter larger science, it was sufficient to 

 gather the bones, and identify the species, but anthropology asked 

 for more. It must have everything measured and in place. On the 

 alert for the sudden apparition of Man, it must know how, when, 

 why, by whom, and under what circumstances all these objects were 

 found. No more of the doubt that beclouded the classic deposits at 

 Natchez, Miss. , or Trenton, N. J. , that perplexed the student who went 

 to Stockholm and tried to get at the real meaning of the bones that 

 Lund supposed he found associated with pleistocene fossils in the Minas- 

 Geraes Caverns in Brazil. No more of the uncertainty that ob- 

 scured at first the investigations at Gailenreuth, where pottery and 

 charcoal seemed to be mixed with the bones of the Cave Bear, 

 or at other caverns in Belgium, England and France, where for a 

 long time science concerned itself with the species of animals found, 

 and not with the human remains associated with them. If Homo 

 sapiens were found at Port Kennedy the fact and its significance 

 could well be established beyond all controversy, but since Dr. Dixon 

 and the speaker had begun excavation there a year ago, and after 

 working at the spot for more than a month last autumn, and during 

 several recent weeks, the latter felt that it would be safe to say that 

 not one- third of the deposit had been removed, though he himself had 

 dug out about 300 cubic yards, and Mr. Rhoads had removed as 

 much previously. 



Thanks were due to Mr. Archibald Irwin, the owner of the 

 quarry, for the privilege accorded by him of exploring the deposit. 

 With his co-operation the work advanced. Meanwhile it was 

 eminently desirable that means should be furnished for the farther 

 exploration of this most important pleistocene record. 



The Fossil Vertebrata from the fissure at Port Kennedy, Pa. Prof. 

 Edw. D. Cope made the following remarks on the contents of the 

 cave at Port Kennedy, and especially on the fossil remains of verte- 

 brata presented to the Academy by Dr. S. G. Dixon and Mr. H. 

 C. Mercer. The fissure was exposed in 1870 by the workmen 

 engaged in quarrying the Cambrian limestone (Calciferous epoch), 

 and Mr. C. M. Wheatley had published an account of it in the 

 American Journal of Science and Arts. He collected numerous 

 fossils, which were the subject of a paper by the speaker, which was 

 published in the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



for 1871. The number of species determined at that time was 

 thirty- four. 



The specimens now received were derived from another part of the 

 same fissure, which had been exposed by further excavations by the 

 quarrymen. The first to come to hand were obtained by Dr. Dixon 

 and Mr. S. N. Rhoads, but subsequently a large amount of 

 material had been taken from the deposit by Mr. H. C. Mercer, who 

 had carefully uoted the position of every specimen. The observations 

 now made by Prof. Cope were based on not more than half the 

 material obtained, and could be regarded as only preliminary to a full 

 report which he hoped to make at a future time. 



The species obtained so far, including those of the collection of 

 1870, are as follows: Batraehia, undetermined, one sp., Testudinata, 

 three species; Ophidia, two species; Aves, two species; Mammalia, 

 Edentata, five species; Glires, twelve species; Inset ■tivora, one species; 

 Camivora, fourteen species; Proboscidia, one species; Diplarthra, 

 seven species; total, forty-eight species. Subtracting three species from 

 the list of 1871 as not well founded, we have an addition of seventeen 

 species made by the present exploration. Of these additions ten 

 species are Camivora. 



Characteristic peculiarities of the association of species are the 

 following: The most abundant of the large mammals is the tapir, 

 Tapirus haysii Leidy. The next most abundant is the bear, Arcto- 

 therium pristinum Leidy. Probably the skunk, Mephitis mephitica 

 L. is the next most numerously represented. If we regard the sloths 

 of the genus Megalonyx as representing one species, they are the most 

 numerous in individuals, but there are several species. Equus 

 major Dek. and Mastodon amerieanus Cuv., in both young and adult 

 individuals, are not rare. The remains of Elephas have not been 

 found, and the first collection only contains Mylodon. Peccaries of 

 two species are not uncommon; while a few individuals of a deer 

 occur, and a single tooth of a rather large cameloid. The Glires of 

 the new collection had not been investigated, but there is a left ramus 

 mandibuli of a beaver which' is very near to, if not identical with, 

 the Castor fiber, a species not contained in the collection of 1870. 

 No fragments of opossum have been found, and raccoon is very rare. 



More attention has been given to the Camivora of the collection. 

 The Arctotherium pristinum is of South American type, and is 

 widely different from the existing North American bears. Associated 

 with it are remains not distinguishable from the common black bear, 

 Ursus amerieanus. A few teeth and bones are not distinguishable 

 from those of the wolf, while two species of foxes are represented by 

 two molar teeth, one of which is not distinguishable from the corres- 

 ponding part of the gray fox, V. einereoargentatus. Fragments of 

 sectorials are closely similar to those of Eassariscus astutus, and 

 fragments represent a weasel, Mustela. The cats are represented 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



by four species, of which the most abundant is the red lynx, L. rufus. 

 There is a smaller cat represented by mandibular ramus, which 

 resembles in characters and in size the corresponding parts of the 

 eyra, with which it seems to be identical. There are three inferior 

 premolars, and perhaps a part of a superior sectorial of a cat of the 

 size of the jaguar, which appears to be new to science; and there are 

 several teeth and a part of the lower jaw with teeth, of the large 

 saber-tooth which has been called Smilodon gracilis Cope. Finally 

 a lower sectorial and a premolar indicate an ally of the hyaenas; 

 which is described below as Crocuta inexpectata. The following are 

 the descriptions of the new forms: 



Uncia meroerii sp. nov. This species is represented by three 

 premolar teeth of the lower jaw which belong to two individuals. 

 The posterior part of a superior sectorial tooth accompanies these 

 remains, and may belong to the same species. These teeth belong 

 to an animal of the dimensions of the jaguar, and the inferior pre- 

 molars have the posterior heel and lobe, and anterior basal lobe, well 

 developed. The horizontal section of the principal cusp is lenticular, 

 without much difference in the degree of convexity of the outlines. 

 The teeth differ from those of both the jaguar and puma in the 

 greater .elevation of both the posterior heel and lobe, which are 

 separated from each other by deep incisions. The posterior part of 

 the crown is narrower posteriorly, especially in the anterior tooth, 

 which differs more in all the points mentioned than does the posterior 

 tooth. Enamel smooth. Length of crown of p. m. I, 21 mm ; width 

 of do. posteriorly 9 mm. ; elevation of do. 14 mm. Length of crown 

 of p. m. II, 16 mm.; width of do. 7.5 mm.; elevation of do. 8.5 

 mm. This species is smaller than the X T ncia atrox Leidy, which 

 equals the lion, and which differs also in the much simpler character 

 of the second premolar. It is dedicated to Mr. Henry C. Mercer in 

 recognition of his indefatigable labors in cave exploration. 



Smilodon gracilis Cope, American Naturalist, 1880, p. 857. 

 This saber-tooth is represented by a considerable part of a superior 

 canine tooth, from which more than half of the apex has been broken 

 off. At the same time and place w T ere found an entire left superior 

 sectorial ; part of a second left superior sectorial; part of a right 

 mandibular ramus containing the sectorial and first premolar teeth; 

 the crown of a second left inferior sectorial, and three incisors. 

 There are several bones in the collection, including ungual pha- 

 langes, which probably belong to the same animal. 



This is the largest feline discovered in the formation, equaling the 

 Machcerodus cvltridens of the European caves, but not reaching the 

 dimensions of the South American Smilodon neogaetis. The edges 

 of the crown of the canine, of which 20 mm. are preserved, are 

 not denticulate. The anterior lobe of the superior sectorial is large, 

 but the preanterior lobe is very small. The protocone forms an 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



angular process, but has no distinct apex; its base displays the origin 

 of a separate root. The inferior sectorial has no trace of heel. The 

 first premolar is short and robust, and has a short but well-defined 

 heel, and well-marked but not elevated posterior lobe. The principal 

 cusp is elevated and robust, with lenticular section with, outlines of 

 very unequal convexity. In a probable second specimen of this 

 tooth, the anterior lobe is distinct, acute edged, and little elevated. 

 Incisors short, hooked, and with basal lobe at one side only. 



The length of the fragment of the superior canine measures 111 

 mm.; anteroposterior diameter at base of crown 27 mm.; do. at 30 

 mm. from base 24 mm.; transverse diameter at do. 11 mm. Antero- 

 posterior diameter of superior sectorial 31 mm; greatest width (at 

 protocone) 14 mm. Anteroposterior diameter of inferior sectorial, 

 23 mm. ; do. of p. m. I, 20 mm. (restored). 



This species differs from the S. floridanus Liedy, in the much 

 greater compression of the superior canine tooth, while the general 

 dimensions are similar. 



Crocuta inexpectata sp. nov. This species is represented by a 

 right inferior sectorial in good preservation. It resembles a good 

 deal that of Crocuta maculata, and agrees with it in the absence 

 of trace of metaconid. The cutting heel is rather longer than in that 

 species, and the cingillum which is so conspicuous in it is wanting in 

 the fossil tooth. The paracouid and protoconid are well elevated 

 and equal. Anteroposterior diameter of crown 24 mm. ; do. of do. 

 exclusive of heel 19 mm.; elevation of paraconid 10 mm. 



The occurrence of a hyena in this collection is unlooked for, but was 

 rendered less incredible by the discovery of a species of this family, 

 Borophagus diversidens, in the pliocene bed of Texas. There is an 

 alternative to the identification of this species as Crocuta, and that is 

 that it might belong to the genus Nlmravus. As this genus belongs 

 to the middle Miocene, it is extremely improbable that it should 

 have a representative in the Pleistocene fauna, although the survival 

 of this form of sectorial tooth in connection with modern feline char- 

 acters in other respects is not an impossibility. 



Of the forty-eight species contained in the collection eleven have 

 not been finally determined. Of the thirty-six determined species 

 nine, or twenty-five per cent., are still existing, and the remain- 

 ing twenty-seven are extinct. Of the existing species eight are 

 nearctic, and one, Felis eyra, is neotropical. Of the extinct spe- 

 cies ten ai*e of nearctic type, and ten are of neotropical type; the 

 remaining six species being indifferently one or the other, except 

 the Crocuta, which is of old world type. The presence of Equiis 

 major, and of the beaver, connects the fauna directly with that of the 

 Equus beds of the West and Southwest, with which the Megalonyx 

 fauna, as he had called this one, was probably contemporaneous. 

 These faunas were separated by a long interval of time from the 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



later ones whose remains, including those of Man, have heen 

 found in so many caves by Mr. H. C. Mercer. The speaker had 

 suggested 1 that this interval was marked by the Champlain depres- 

 sion during which the Columbia gravels and other formations of 

 gravel and clay were deposited, and he had hence designated the 

 caves of the two ages as Prechamplain and Postchamplain. 



As regards the mode of occurrence of the remains of this fauna 

 the following remarks were made. No single cave deposit has 

 been found as yet which contains so large a number of species as 

 the subject of this communication, although those of Brixham in 

 England and Gailenreuth in Bavaria, contained as many or more 

 numerous individual animals. As the majority of the species at 

 Port Kennedy are not cave-dwellers, and many of them, as the mas- 

 todons and sloths, cannot well have been dragged there by carnivo- 

 rous species, the question arises as to how the accumulation came 

 about. The bones show no signs of gnawing, nor of wear, as though 

 they had been transported. At the same time two bones have been 

 rarely found in their normal relations in the skeleton. The fissure 

 has been exposed for some twenty feet from the summit, but the 

 bottom has not been reached, chiefly on account of the quantity of 

 water present. The scattered and mixed relations of the bones are 

 identical with the conditions he had found to exist in caves contain- 

 ing the same fauna in Southwest Virginia and East Tennessee. No 

 local conditions will therefore account for a phenomenon so wide- 

 spread. 



Without evidence of a conclusive character, the impression which 

 he had gathered from the facts is as follows: He suspected that the 

 larger animals at least fell into this fissure during a long period. 

 Many of the smaller ones may have entered it from entrances now 

 filled by debris. Animals frequently resort to caves to die. A gallery 

 of fifty feet in length which is large enough to admit a man standing 

 nearly erect, in the Marble cave in South West Missouri, was found 

 to be packed for a considerable part of its length by mummied rac- 

 coons who had apparently crawled in there. At the period of 

 submergence of the Champlain epoch, floods of water from melting 

 ice poured into the fissure, and filled it to the mouth with debris, 

 churning up the contents already there, and carrying in logs and 

 other vegetable matter. The stratification of the deposit may be 

 thus accounted for, as also the presence of worn and unworn stones. 

 In the lower part of the deposit vegetable debris and forest mold 

 predominate, which contain seeds and nuts. This deposit appar- 

 ently represents the long period during which the fissure was open. 



1 American' Naturalist, 1895, p. 59S. 




1895.] NATURAE SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



The Port Kennedy Deposit. Prof. Angelo Heilprin, com- 

 menting upon the evidence that had been submitted regarding the 

 age of the deposit, believed that special caution was necessary in as- 

 signing to the debris a definite geological position. To him the 

 large number of extinct or Neotropical forms indicated more nearly 

 a Pliocene rather than Post-Pliocene fauna — at all events a fauna 

 whose culmination preceded the Glacial Epoch — and he was hardly 

 prepared to accept them as a part of the fauna of the region which 

 survived the melting of the ice. The correspondence was with 

 the Pampeau fauna of the southern continent, and this he was also 

 inclined to believe to be ( as Prof. Cope himself had years before an- 

 nounced) Pliocene. Prof. Heilprin said that he was not yet a con- 

 vert to the Columbian gravel theory, regarding which far too much 

 uncertainty existed to permit it to be accepted as a broad chrono- 

 logical element in geological history. He thought it not unlikely 

 that the remains in question had been subjected to redistribution 

 by the glacial flood of the Delaware River Valley, the high back- 

 water of which must have penetrated far into the valley of the 

 Schuylkill, and into the very region of. Port Kennedy. 



The Recording Secretary read the following: — 



31 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



A BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER, M. D. 

 BY EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



Since the first recorded meeting of the founders of the Academy, 

 "friends of science and of rational disposal of leisure moments " at 

 the house of John Speakman, January 25, 1812, the society has 

 been served by a succession of devoted men who have given their 

 time, their means and their best thought to the promotion of its 

 interests. The membership at large, however, has been for the 

 most part composed of specialists in science who have had neither 

 time nor inclination to occupy themselves with administrative affairs, 

 and a much larger number who have been content to lend their sup- 

 port, moral and pecuniary, to an institution for the advancement of 

 learning without taking part intimately in the details of its work. 



The services rendered by the subject of this notice during the last 

 twenty-six years of his life are of such character and magnitude that 

 they have secured for him a distinguished position among the bene- 

 factors of this society. He was intellectually in close sympathy 

 with the Academy's work, while the termination of his active con- 

 nection with the United States navy enabled him to devote himself 

 with tireless fidelity to the duties of the several executive positions in 

 which he was placed. 



William Samuel Waithman Ruschenberger was the son of 

 Peter Ruschenberger, a sea captain, and Ann Waithman. His 

 mother, the third in a family of nine children, was born near 

 Bridgeton, Cumberland Co., N. J., June 18th, 1785. Her son was 

 also born there September 4, 1807. Prior to this, however, her 

 father and his family had moved to Philadelphia, the young couple 

 living with them, and here a daughter was born. Three months 

 before the birth of the son Captain Ruschenberger and all his crew 

 were lost at sea, leaving the wife and children in straitened circum- 

 stances, so that it became necessary to add to their income by literary 

 work. Sacrifices were made to secure a good education for the boy, 

 who co-operated earnestly with his mother to that end. The details 

 of his early training are not known, but he attended schools in TSew 

 York and Philadelphia, and studied Latin with an Irishman of 

 culture who had been compelled to leave the country of his birth 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



for political reasons. The pupil declared more than half a century 

 later that his teacher's hitter denunciation of English injustice had 

 permanently influenced his political opinions. Other particulars of 

 his earlv life are wanting:. 



He was appointed to the United States navy from the State of 

 New Jersey, August 10, 1826, when not quite nineteen years of age. 

 He entered the service as surgeon's mate, his first cruise heing on 

 the U. S. S. Brandy wine of the Pacific Squadron. His fitness secured 

 for him the position of commodore's secretary, in which capacity he 

 served under Commodore Jacob Jones during 1828 and 1829. He 

 had, in the mean time, matriculated in the Medical Department of 

 the University of Pennsylvania from which institution he received 

 his degree of Doctor of Medicine. March 24, 1830. 



He was commissioned as Surgeon in the Navy, April 4, 1831, . 

 and was assigned to the sloop Falmouth, also of the Pacific 

 Squadron, on which he served from June, 1831 to February, 1834. 

 As a result of this voyage he published in Silliman's Journal for 

 1831 and 1833 a translation of a paper by Dr. C. Bertero entitled, 

 "A List of the Plants of Chili." This appears to have been his 

 earliest contribution to science. 



On his return home he published in 1834 his first important work 

 under the title, " Three Years iu the Pacific." In the prefatory note 

 the author states that he has "avoided obtruding himself upon the 

 attention of the reader and has indulged in but few reflections, 

 beiug content to present naked facts and allow each one to dress 

 them for himself and draw his own conclusions. " This statement 

 characterizes the work with a fair degree of accuracy. The social 

 and political life of Brazil, Chili, Bolivia and Peru are described 

 with animation, the style, especially in the earlier chapters, being 

 diffusive and somewhat florid, rather sharply coutrasting with the 

 somewhat sententious diction of his later work. There is a youthful 

 sparkle and sense of humor in his descriptions of persons and 

 incidents, which, in spite of the fidelity with which he adheres to the 

 promise of his preface, make the book a charming narrative of 

 adventure. The young surgeon, moreover, evidently regarded it as 

 his duty to convey as much solid information as possible, and 

 geographical, political and sociological notes, bearing the stamp of 

 accuracy, are not wanting. A characteristic abhorrence of sham 

 and pretence is manifest throughout the book, while the religious 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



opinions and practices of the people are referred to with respect 

 and courtesy, although, as was inevitable, with plainly expressed 

 dissent. The friends of the young author surely had reason to be 

 satisfied with his first literary offspring. 



He was Fleet .Surgeon on -board the U. S. S. "Peacock" of the 

 East Indian Squadron from 1835 to 1837. This cruise resulted in 

 his second work, "A Voyage Round the World, including an 

 Embassy to Muscat and Siam in 1835, 1836 and 1837." The 

 volume bears the date 1838 and is dedicated to Dr. Samuel George 

 Morton, then Corresponding Secretary of the Academy, of which Dr. 

 Ruschenberger had been elected a correspondent in 1832. He was 

 transferred, in compliance with the By-Laws, to the class of active 

 members on his taking up his residence in the city. 



The superb opportunity of acquiring a knowledge of portions of 

 the world not then known nearly as well as they are now had been 

 improved to the .utmost. Besides the journal of an embassy from 

 the Government of the United States to the courts of Muscat, Siam 

 and Cochin-China the work embraces sketches in Zanzibar, Arabia, 

 Hindostan, Ceylon, Java, Siam, Cochin-China, China, the Sand- 

 wich Islands, Mexico and California. The style, although matured, 

 is bright and animated, and the broad spirit of toleration and fair- 

 ness of the earlier work is maintained. A growing fondness for 

 natural history and an increased familiarity with the characters of 

 animals and plants are also evident. 



The same year he published in Silliman's Journal a paper en- 

 titled " Remarks on the Barometer with a table of meteorological 

 observations made on board the U. S. Ship 'Peacock' from July 8 

 to August 17, 1837, during a passage from Peru to the United 

 States, by way of Cape Horn." 



He was married to Miss Mary Bayuton Wister, the daughter of 

 Mr. Charles J. Wister, of Germantown, October 23, 1839. Four 

 children were born to them, three daughters and one son, of whom 

 the latter, Lieut. C. W. Ruschenberger, of the Navy, alone survives. 

 Mrs. Ruschenberger died November 1, 1893. 



Dr. Ruschenberger was stationed at the Naval Rendevous in 

 Philadelphia from 1840 to 1842. He now placed himself in active 

 communication with the Academy, frequently attending the meet- 

 ings and contributing to the library and museum, his first recorded 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



contribution to the latter being specimens of Chiton, supposed to be 

 new species, from Chapman's Island. 



It was probably during this period that he prepared the text- 

 books of natural history which subsequently appeared under the 

 following titles: — 



Physiology and Animal Mechanism, 1841. 



Mammalogy. Natural History of Mammiferous Animals. 2nd 

 Hook of Natural History, 1842. 



Mollusca. Elements of Conchology, 1843. 



These works were from the text of Milne Edwards and Achille 

 Compte, and were the first of a promised series which was not, how- 

 ever, continued. 



A Lexicon of Terms in Natural History, 1850. 



Elements of Natural History, embracing Zoology, Botany, and 

 Geology. Two volumes, 1850. 



More than one member of the Academy has acknowledged his in- 

 debtedness to these text-books for his first knowledge of natural 

 history. They are purely technical and possess no literary grace 

 other than that of clearness and directness of statement. 



He served at the Naval Hospital, Brooklyn, from 1<S43 to 1847, 

 and while there organized the Naval Laboratory for supplying the 

 service with pure drugs and reliable instruments. This establish- 

 ment is said by his contemporaries to have been much needed and 

 to have especially proven its usefulness during the trying period of 

 the civil war. About this time he published a number of pamphlets 

 on the relations of the medical corps to the United States Navy with 

 a view to securing proper definition of authority, rank, responsibility, 

 etc. 



He was again Fleet Surgeon of the East India Squadron from 

 1847 to 1850. Some of his observations during this cruise were 

 embodied in a series of papers contributed to the Southern Literary 

 Messenger for 1852 and 1853. They were issued later in book-form 

 under the title " Notes and Commentaries during a Voyage to Brazil 

 and China in the year 1848." As might be expected from the 

 mode of publication, the work has not the sustained interest or value 

 of his other volumes of travel. It is discursive and disjointed, 

 although still bright and instructive. 



On his return to America he was assigned to duty in Philadelphia, 

 and immediately resumed his active connection with the Academy. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



He served as a member of the Publication Committee from 1851 to 

 1854, and in September of the earlier year, he was appointed to pre- 

 pare a new and extended notice of the Academy. That he lost no 

 time in the performance of the work assigned to him is evident, for 

 the notice was read to the meeting of February 10, 1852, a vote of 

 thanks being then adopted and communicated to the author through 

 a committee consisting of Messrs, Vaux, Bridges and Pearsall. 

 The paper was published under the title "A Notice of the Origin, 

 Progress, and Present Condition of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia." A second edition was issued in 1860. 



He served as Fleet Surgeon of the Pacific Squadron from 1854 to 

 1857. 



In January, 1858, a committee of Academicians was appointed to 

 confer with one from the Biological Society with a view to a union 

 of the two bodies. The report was evidently written by Dr. Rusch- 

 enberger. The question of Sections is carefully considered in view 

 of the character of the Academy's work, which up to that time, had 

 been almost entirely confined to the study of objective natural history, 

 the recording of specific differences and resemblances of form, classi- 

 fication, and geographical distribution, while the province of the 

 Biological Society was declared to be the discovery of the laws of 

 organic life, the forces which bring together the primary organic 

 cells and the results of their combination. The necessity of providing 

 for organized special work was insisted on, and the alteration of the 

 by-laws to permit of the erection of classes or departments was 

 recommended. It was argued that the existing divisions of objective 

 natural history would not lie curtailed or interfered with, the interest 

 of the meetings of the Academy would be enhanced and the necessity 

 for the organization of special societies would be avoided. 



Dr. Ruschenberger lived long enough to be cognizant of the vast 

 advance of biological investigation from those days of cell-relations 

 to the present era of germinal selection, cytodes and microplasms. 

 He had occasion, it is believed, to acknowledge that the hopes of the 

 committee of conference were not well founded and that the existence 

 of Sections in the Academy, while detracting from the interest of the 

 general meetings, has not prevented the organization of special 

 societies which, it appears, are necessary to secure the sympathetic 

 association desired by those interested in distinct lines of investigation. 



From August 1860 to July 1861 he was serving also as Fleet 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES <>F PHIIiADELPHl A. 457 



Surgeon, in the Mediterranean. This was his last period of service 

 on ship- board. He never again had occasion to go abroad; indeed 

 even short trips from Philadelphia were hereafter of infrequent occur. 

 rence. During the summer vacations when nearly all his associates 

 were absent from the city he remained at home, declaring that the 

 shady side of Chestnut Street was the most desirable summer resort 

 known to him. 



During a portion of the period of the civil war, from 1861 to 1864, 

 he was stationed at the Boston Navy Yard, where, in common with 

 everyone connected with the public service he found himself charged 

 with most engrossing duties. 



He was on special duty again in Philadelphia during 1865 and 

 1866 when his attention was professionally occupied with the affairs 

 of the Naval Hospital. He also discharged the duties of President 

 of the Board of Examiners with which he had before been connected 

 as a member. In the American Journal of Medical Sciences for 

 July, 1867 he published a paper entitled "Contributions to the 

 Statistics of Human Growth" based on an examination of 21 7 candi- 

 dates for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis. 



He was retired on age in 1869 with the rank of Surgeon, being 

 later promoted to the grade of Medical Director, with the relative 

 rank of Commodore, as a special recognition of long and efficient 

 service. 



While relieved from the performance of professional work in 

 connection with the United States Navy he was far from availing 

 himself of the opportunity to rest, or acknowledging the necessity of 

 doing so. He found himself physically and mentally as vigorous as 

 he had been for the past twenty years with every prospect of a long 

 life. His mother lived until ninety-eight years old. It was now that 

 his active connection with the Academy, the American Philosophical 

 Society and the College of Physicians was productive of the most 

 lasting results. 



On the organization of the Board of Trustees of the Building Fund 

 of the Academy in 1867 he had been chosen President thereof, and 

 from that time until his death, while the work of collecting subscrip- 

 tions was in progress and later during the erection of the buildings, 

 he was indefatigable in the discharge of the duties of this position. 

 The work accomplished is set forth in the fourteen elaborate pub- 

 lished reports prepared by him. They cover the operations of the 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895- 



Board from 1867 to 1878 and during 1890, 1891 and 1892, the 

 history of the inactive intermediate years having heen left by him 

 fully recorded in manuscript. In support of this enterprise he 

 published in 1871 an address on the claims of the Academy to public- 

 favor, in the Penn Monthly for November 1873 an article on the 

 value of original scientific research and, on the occasion of the 

 removal of the Academy to the new building, a report to the contri- 

 butors on the condition of the society at that time, together with 

 numerous replies, statements and appeals in the newspapers. The 

 buildings of the Academy are, in truth, whether regarded as 

 meritorious or faulty, the visible evidence of Dr. Ruschenberger's 

 zeal, industry and perseverance and the memorial, if one were to be 

 assigned him, most consonant with his tastes and desires. 



He was elected one of the Vice-Presidents of the Academy in 

 January, 1869, to fill the position rendered vacant by the death of 

 John Cassin. At the annual meeting of the same year he was 

 elected to the highest position in the gift of the society which he held 

 until 1881 when, having declined a renomination, he was succeeded 

 in the Presidency by Dr. Joseph Leidy. 



From 1876 until the close of his service as President, Dr. Rusch- 

 enberger presented a series of reports at the annual meetings of the 

 Academy reviewing the work of the society. In the first report thus 

 presented he defines his attitude towards the department of instruction, 

 provision for which had been incorporated in the new code of by-laws 

 just then adopted. He gives emphatic endorsement to the idea of 

 providing support by endowment of positious for original investigators, 

 but deprecates the conferring of empty titles and points out the dis- 

 advantage of entrusting the control of departments of the museum to 

 those over whom, in the absence of compensation, there is no easily 

 administered method of control. He held that the Academy's 

 function was the encouragement of original research, its legitimate 

 work beginning where that of the University ceases, and that the 

 teaching of science could better be done by organizations having 

 instruction for their primary object. • His active co-operation was not, 

 however, interfered with when the opposite opinion was practically 

 sustained by the majority of his associates. While, therefore, he 

 was never in sympathy with the department of instruction, he acted 

 on the belief, as expressed by him to one of his Vice-Presidents about 

 this time, "that the institution will live and prosper long after we are 




1895.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



gone, when we can no longer have a voice in its management, and 

 under theories of administration entirely different from ours, so that 

 it is wise to enforce our own views if we can, but if not, to help along 

 as far as practicable, the views of the dissenters." 



A minute of appreciation and regret was adopted on his declining 

 a reuomination for the Presidency. His executive work in the 

 Academy did not, however, cease. He became a member of the 

 Council almost immediately and he was elected a Curator in 1882. 

 On the death of Dr. Leidy in April 1891, he became Chairman of 

 the Board of Curators, which position he held during the rest of his 

 life. His services as Councillor were invaluable because of his 

 retentive memory ami his accurate knowledge of Academy traditions 

 and history during nearly half a century. 



He served on the Publication Committee from 1872 to 1878 and 

 on the Library Committee from 1873 until his death. 



He was Director of the Conchological Section continuously from 

 1869, the year of its formation, and of the Botanical Section from 

 1876 to 1894. He also served terms as Director of the Biological and 

 Microscopical Section and as Vice- Director of the Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section. Until incapacitated by failing health he was 

 rarely or never absent from the meeting of these bodies while 

 officially connected with them. 



Although he devoted the greater portion of his time to the affairs 

 of the Academy they did not absorb his entire attention. He became 

 a member of the College of Physicians »of Philadelphia in March 

 1836, was Vice-President from May 1875 to May 1879 and President 

 from May 5, 1879 until January, 1883. 



He was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society 

 October 17, 1849. The high appreciation in which he was held by 

 his fellow-members is shown by the fact that he was annually re-elected 

 to the Vice-Presidency of that Society from January, 1885. His 

 services to these societies have been recounted in biographical notices 

 specially prepared for them and need not be dwelt on here. 



The following is a list, probably incomplete, of other societies to 

 which Dr. Ruschenberger belonged, with the dates of his election: 



County Medical Society of Philadelphia, March 24, 1831. 



United States Naval Lyceum, New York, February 1, 1836. 



Franklin Institute, April 15, 1840. 



College of Physicians and Surgeons of New York, Feb. 22, 1845. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



American Institute, New York, Juue 13, 1845. 



Military Order of the Loyal Legion, October 20, 1836. 



Pennsylvania Horticultural Society, March 16, 1886. 



Pennsylvania Zoological Society, October 13, 1887. 



Philadelphia College of Pharmacy (honorary), March 27, 1893. 



In addition to the literary work heretofore noted he prepared and 

 published in connection with the Academy, the College of Physicians 

 and the American Philosophical Society biographical notices of the 

 following persons: — 



Charles Pickering, M. D. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1878. 



William S. Vaux. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1882. 



Robert Bridges, M. D. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1882 and 

 Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, XXI, 1884. 



Thomas Stewardson. Trans. Col. Phys. Phila., 1884. 



George Fox, M. D. Trans. Col. of Phys. Phila., 1884. 



Robert E. Rogers, M. D. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, XXII, 1885. 



George W. Tryou, Jr. Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 1888. 



Caspar Wister, M. D. Trans. Col. Phys. Phila., 1890. 



Gouverneur Emerson, M. D. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, XXIX 

 1891. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D. Proc Am. Phil. Soc, XXX, 1892. 



William B. Rogers. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, XXXI, 1893. 



William V. Keating, M. D. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, XXXIII, 

 1895. 



These notices were all characterized by accuracy of detail and, for 

 the most part, sympathetic judgment and a generous acknowledgment 

 of merit. His last mouths were occupied in the congenial work of 

 collecting material for a history of the Academy. With much pains 

 and patience he had collected a mass of details from unexpected 

 sources regarding individuals long since dead and events almost 

 forgotten. No trouble was too great if it resulted in an addition to 

 knowledge or an increase of accuracy. It is related that on one 

 occasion he made a journey to Washington to verify a date, and the 

 amount of correspondence involved in his researches was such as to 

 discourage one not endowed with equal persistency or less enthusi- 

 astically devoted to the work. His manuscript notes are in the 

 possession of the Academy and will be of value to the future historian 

 of the society. 



He was confined to his house during the winters of 1894 and 1895 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



by an annoying bronchial affection, which, added to the infirmities of 

 advanced age, rendered it imprudent for him to encounter variations 

 of temperature. While thus prevented from giving the usual at- 

 tention to his official duties, his time was congenially occupied in 

 correspondence, composition and study, no diminution of mental 

 clearness or activity being apparent to the friends whom he greeted 

 so cordially. During the late winter his vital powers gradually but 

 steadily failed, until after six hours of unconsciousness the close of his 

 busy and useful life was reached, calmly and without acute suffer- 

 ing, March 24th, in its eighty-eighth year. 



Dr. Ruschenberger was a man of striking individuality. The 

 dominant notes of his character were loyalty to truth, as he under- 

 stood it, and unsparing devotion to duty. His prejudices were strong 

 and his affections warm. He was a strict disciplinarian, but he 

 never exacted from others what he was not prepared to render him- 

 self He was frequently severe in his criticisms, which were, how- 

 ever, in the main salutary. While assuming a stern demeanor to 

 those whom he thought deficient in a sense of duty, to the earnest 

 student he was always helpful and encouraging. To those who 

 knew him intimately, his innate gentleness was apparent, an affec- 

 tionate word or a kindly proffer of assistance, especially during his 

 later and less robust years, at once eliciting evidence of grateful 

 emotion. He was impatient of what he called "indirection," pre- 

 ferring on the part of others the frankness which he was not afraid 

 to employ himself. 



His aesthetic tastes were austere in the extreme. He cared but 

 little about art as such, and the utter absence of ornamentation from 

 the interior of the museum and library of the Academy is due to 

 this peculiarity of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the 

 Building Fund rather than to economic necessity. He once re- 

 marked that had he his way he would pull down to a level with 

 the house tops, all the church steeples, as they were unsightly and 

 useless. Whether this feature of his character was due to inherit- 

 ance, to education or to long association with an environment where 

 the refinements of ornamentation would be out of place cannot be 

 determined. His attitude toward literature was equally severe. 

 He regarded the matter-of-fact narrative of "Robinson Crusoe" as 

 the ideal novel, while the glowing imagery of Pierre Loti's "An 

 Iceland Fisherman" was pronounced "unreadable stuff." 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



He had, however, that precious endowment, a well devolped sense 

 of humor. His conversation was frequently enlivened by the re- 

 lation of laughter- provoking incidents from his wide and varied 

 experience, while the good things related by others were heartily 

 enjoyed by him. 



A friend having asked him shortly after his eighty-third birth- 

 day what he had learned of most value during his long life, he replied 

 after a moment's reflection, " Well, I believe I have learned not to 

 be too cock-sure of anything." 



The official who endeavors to perform his duty without fear or 

 favor is certain to antagonize the ignorant, the selfish, and the un- 

 scrupulous as well as those holding honestly different opinions. This 

 is equally true of the officer of a society, the chairman of a committee 

 or a Metropolitan police commissioner. Dr. Ruschenberger was no 

 exception to the rule. When convinced that he was right he was, 

 notwithstanding his tolerant theories, but little disposed to make 

 concessions, sometimes holding tenaciously to his opinions even in the 

 face of an adverse decision by the majority. Hostile critics were 

 therefore not lacking, but he was probably consoled by the reflection 

 that " he who never had an enemy was never worthy of having a 

 friend." Friends, steadfast and warm, he had; friends to whom he 

 had endeared himself by his sterling qualities of heart and mind. 



While he treated the religious opinions of others with toleration 

 and respect, he left his own to be inferred. He certainly was not 

 in visible union with any recognized form of orthodoxy, and would 

 probably not resent the assertion that he was in sympathy with 

 modern agnosticism in its negative and least aggressive sense. If 

 an upright life devoted during all its active years to the intellectual 

 advancement of mankind, and a reverent recognition of the Divine 

 Mind in Nature be taken as evidence, then may we believe that had 

 Dr. Ruschenberger lived when men cherished the same truths under 

 different formula? his motto would have been ad Majorem Dei 

 yloriam. 



Messrs. Charles C. Harrison, John M. Justice and Howard W. 

 Dubois were elected members. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed: — 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIEADEEPHJ A. 463 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ZOOLOGY OF TENNESSEE, 



No. 2. BIRDS. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



It has been thought desirable not only to include in the following 

 annotated list of the avifauna of Tennessee a synopsis of the species 

 observed during my recent trip, but to make it comprehend all the 

 birds of which we have any record as now inhabiting or formerly 

 occurring in the State. 1 



I have consulted, among others, the following references, which 

 constitute nearly all the literature relating to the birds of Tennessee 

 that has come under my notice. 



Wilson, A.; American Ornithology, 1810-11. 



Ord, G.; Sketch of Life of Alex. Wilson, 1828. 



Fox, W. H. ; Stray Notes from Lookout Mountain, Tennessee; 

 Bull. Nutt. Orn. .Club, VII, 1882, p. 191. 



Fox, W. H. ; Birds of Roane County, Tennessee. Auk, III, 

 1886, p. 315. 



Lemoyne, ; Notes on Birds of the Great Smoky Mountains 



Tennessee. Orn., Oologist XI, 1886, pp. 115, 131, 149, 163, 179.' 



Langdon, F. W. ; August Birds of the Chilhowee Mountains, 

 Tennessee. Auk. IV, 1887, p. 133. . 



Hasbrouck, E. M.; On the Ivory-billed Woodpecker and Caro- 

 lina Paroquet. Auk, VIII, 1891, pp. 183, 378. 



Dr. C. Hart Merriam has generously given me free use of manu- 

 script notes on the birds observed by him in the valley of the Little 

 Tennessee, opposite Chilhowee Mountain, July 29, 1887; also his 

 notes on the birds observed at Athens, McMinn County, July 23 

 to 27, 1887. 



In my quotations from these and from the papers listed above I 

 have only made use of such notes as would be of value in supple- 



1 The reader is referred to the first paper of this series, pages 376 to 332 of the 

 Proceedings, for an itinerary of the author's trip through Tennessee and a brief 

 synopsis of the zoo-geography of the State. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



meriting or confirming my own, not undertaking to make the refer- 

 ences compendious save for rare or little known species. 



For a most valuable and interesting series of notes from West 

 Tennessee I am indebted, to my correspondent, Mr. Benjamin C. 

 Miles, of Brownsville, an old resident, acute observer of nature and 

 enthusiastic sportsman. Through his generous efforts I am able 

 to put on a satisfactory basis the status of several birds which must 

 otherwise have been omitted from this list, and can present several 

 facts relating to the history of bird extermination in that part of 

 the Mississippi Valley, which are of great interest. It is my hope 

 that this paper, the first attempt to give the public a resume of the 

 ornithology of a long neglected commonwealth, may inspire her 

 people to a desire for something better in this line of educational work. 



The entire collection of Tennessee birds brought back to the 

 Academy only numbers sixty skins, no attempt being made to 

 secure any but the rarest species, or others for purposes of identifi- 

 cation. The names of species of which there are specimens in this 

 collection are preceded by an asterisk. 



The whole number of species and subspecies given in the follow- 

 ing list is 214. Of these 10 are of doubtful record or identity, 

 although they all belong to the Tennessee fauna. 



Dr. Fox's list records 116 species and subspecies of Tennessee 

 birds. To this add 10 species recorded by Lemoyne, viz. : Accipiier 

 velox, Aquila chrysaetos, Falco peregrinus anatum, Pandion halicetus 

 carolinensis, Syrnium nebulosum, Vireo solitarius alticola, Helmin- 

 thophila chrysoptera, Dendroica ccerulescens, Sylvania canadensis and 

 Parus atricapiUus, and to this again add four, viz.: Ampelis cedro- 

 rum, Dendroica pensylvanica, Dendroica cairulea and Dryobates rillo- 

 sus recorded in Langdon's list, and we have 180 species and sub- 

 species. To this may be added those recorded by Wilson, viz. : 

 Elanoides forficatus, Conurus carolinensis, Ilelminthophila ruficapilla 

 and Helminthophila peregrina, making the total number recorded 

 previous to the present list, 134. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



Order PYGOPODES. 

 Family PODICIPIDJE. 



Genus COLYMBUS Linnaeus. 



1. Colymbus holboelli (Eeinh.). Holb<ell's Grebe. 



A bird which I found lying on a stump in Reelfoot Lake almost 

 certainly belonged to this species. It had evidently been laid there 

 by a gunner the previous winter and was in a badly decomposed 

 state, but the long, slender bill and large size were characteristic 

 enough for identification. 



Genus PODILYMBUS Lesson. 



2. Podilymbus podiceps (L.). Pied-billed Grebe. 



Observed at Saruburg. It is not unlikely that they breed in that 

 region. 



Family URINATOEIDiE. 



Genus URINATOR Cnvier. 



3. Urinator imber (Gunn. ). Loon. 



Mounted specimens were seen on several occasions, some of which 

 were undoubtedly taken in the State, though I did not take pains 

 to verify the occurrence. Owing to the absence of lakes or ponds 

 in the loftier eastern mountains it is not probable that the Loon 

 breeds anywhere in Tennessee. Lauderdale and Haywood Coun- 

 ties, in winter, B. C. Miles. 



4. Urinator lumme (Gunn.). Ked-throated Loon. 



I am under the impression that a pair of this species, in the pos- 

 session of Mr. Schmidt of Memphis, were taken in the State, but as 

 a number of birds in his collection were brought from a locality in 

 Arkansas on the opposite side of the Mississippi, the record is 

 doubtful. 



Order LONGIPENNES. 



Family LARIDjE. 



Genus LARUS Linnseus. 



5. Larus argentatus smithsonianus Cones. Herring Gull. 



Mounted specimens in Memphis. Reports of a large gull at 

 Reelfoot Lake during spring migration must refer to this bird. 



It winters along the Mississippi below St. Louis. Mr. Miles 

 refers to a gull which he has seen on the Mississippi, "size of a 




466 PROCEEDINC4S OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



pigeon with very long wings," which probably refers to the Ring- 

 billed Gull L. delawarensis. 



Family RYNCHOPIDJE. 



Genus RYNCHOPS Linnseus. 

 8. Rynohops nigra (L. ). Black Skinner. 



A specimen was found dead in Obion County after a severe storm 

 by Mr. J. A. Craig, who gave me an account of it. 



Order STEGANOPODES. 



Family ANHINGIDJE. 

 Genus ANHINGA Brissou. 



7. Anhinga anhinga (L. ). Snake Bird, Anhinga. 



This bird is found about Memphis and it is probable that it 

 it occurs on Reelfoot Lake, though I was unable to identify 

 it among the numerous " Water-turkeys" frequenting the Lake, 

 that name being applied to both this species and the Cormo- 

 rant. There is a Cypress swamp about four miles from Samburg 

 across the lake in which a "Turkey Roost" has existed for a long 

 period, but which has been practically abandoned because of the 

 destruction of the young birds, for bait, by the fishermen. The 

 nests are built in the tops of the tallest cypresses and this fact seems 

 to prove pretty conclusively that the Anhinga bred there, though it is 

 not impossible that the Cormorants have adopted the same rookery and 

 nesting sites in preference to their usual habitations among the 

 brushes on the lake shore. Haywood and Lauderdale Counties, 

 nesting in Mississippi bottoms ; Miles. 



Family PHALACROCORACIDJE. 

 Genus PHALACROCORAX Brisson. 



8. Phalacrocorax dilophus floridanus (Aud.). Florida Cormorant. 



9. ? Phalacrocorax mexicanus (Brandt). Mexican Cormorant. 

 Cormorants are quite abundant at Reelfoot Lake. Among the 



commoner species ( P. d. floridanus) I observed a few, which, by 

 their solitary and seclusive habits, light coloration and smaller size 

 were probably the Mexican bird, and previous records of mexicanus 

 on the eastern shore of the Mississippi as far north as Cairo, Illinois, 

 give color to this supposition. Haywood and Lauderdale Coun- 

 ties ; Miles. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF FHILAUEEPHI A. 467 



Family PELECANIDjE. 

 Genus PELECANUS. 



10. Peleoanus erythrorhynobos (Gmel). White Pelican. 



Seen occasionally along the valley. A mounted specimen shot 

 at Sam burg, in the possession of a hotel keeper in Union City, 

 was examined. 



Order ANSEKES. 



Family ANATID^I. 



Genus MERGANSER Linnseus. 



11. Merganser americanus (Cuss.). American Merganser. 



Two were seen on the lake near Samburg. This and the Red- 

 breasted are probably included in Mr. Miles "Shelldrake" records 

 for Haywood and Lauderdale Counties. 



Genus LOPHODYTES Reichenbach. 



12. Lophodytes cucullatus (L. ). Hooded Merganser. 



One seen on Tennessee River near Chattanooga. It most likely 



breeds in the State. Probably one of the three kinds of "Summer 



Ducks" mentioned by Mr. Miles as breeding in trees in Haywood 



County is this species. 



Genus ANAS Linnaeus. 



13. Anas boschas L. Mallard. 



Abounding in winter in the Mississippi Valley. Haywood and 

 Lauderdale Counties ; Miles. Memphis and Reelfoot Lake; gun- 

 ners. 



14. Anas obscura Gmel. Black Duck. 



Mounted specimens at Memphis. Haywood and Lauderdale 

 Counties; Miles. 

 15 Anas discors L. Blue-winged Teal. 



A flock of eight fed regularly in a little slough near Samburg 

 during my sojourn there. 



Other pairs were seen on the lake and it is possible they were 

 summer residents. Roane County, migrant, Dr. W. H. Fox. 

 Haywood and Lauderdale Counties; Miles. 



16. Anas carolinensis (imel. Green-winged Teal. 



Reported to me by the gunners. Stuffed specimens seen at Mem- 

 phis. Havwood and Lauderdale Counties; Miles. 

 32 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



17. Anas strepera L. Gad wall. 



Mounted specimen at Memphis. This is evidently the duck 

 "No. 2," to which the following allusions are made by Mr. Miles: 

 "As to Summer Duck [there are] 1 Wood Duck; 2 [a duck] said 

 to nest on ground, seen here [Haywood County] at all seasons — 

 size of Teal; male and female very similar, marked like female 

 Mallard; heard them called young mallard — seen and shot them 

 myself for forty years; barely fit to eat." 



18. Anas americana Gmel. Baldpate. 



Mountain specimens examined, presumably from near Memphis. 

 Haywood County ; Miles. This name is also applied to the Buffle- 

 head. Mr. Miles does not think he ever saw the true Baldpate. 



Genus SPATULA Boie. 



19. Spatula clypeata (L.). Shoveller. 



Specimen in Mr. Schmidt's collection. Remains of one at Sam- 

 burg. "Killed one several years ago," Miles. 



Genus DAFILA Stephens. 



20. Dafila acuta (L.). Pintail. 



Likewise found in Mr. Schmidt's collection of mounted game. 

 Haywood and Lauderdale Counties; Miles. A female killed the 

 first week in March, 1887, by Mr. Miles, contained a fully devel- 

 oped egg. 



Genus AIX Boie. 



21. Aix sponsa (L. ). Wood Duck. 



Noted all across the State, where it is a summer resident. 



Genus AYTHYA Boie. 



22. Aythya americana ( Eyt. ) Redhead. 



Mounted specimens at Memphis. Haywood and Lauderdale 

 Counties; Miles. 



23. Aythya vallisneria (Wils.). Canvas-back. 



Haywood and Lauderdale Counties ; Miles. Called " Fall 

 Duck" in West Tennessee; "common twenty years ago, now not 

 seen." 



24. Aythya marila nearctica Stejn. American Scaup Duck. 



Mounted specimens at Memphis. "Have seen, I think, and 

 heard called Canvasback," Miles. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



25. Aythya affinis (Eyt. ). Lesser Scaup Duck. 

 One found dead at Samburg. 



26. Aythya oollaris (Donov. ). Ring-necked Duck. 



Under the name, "Fall Duck," Mr. Miles contributes the follow- 

 ing notes: "Only seen September to November or December; for 

 eating excelled by none save partridge [Duck]. In the fall of 

 1875 killed about thirty on different hunts — have not seen it in ten 

 years." The name "Fall Duck" is also applied to this bird in 

 Minnesota. I think Mr. Miles has confounded it somewhat with the 

 Canvasback. 



Genus GLAUCIONETTA Stejneger. 



27. Glaucionetta clangula americana (Bonap.). American Golden Eye- 

 Mr. Miles sent me a description of one of these Ducks, which he 



killed several years ago near Brownsville. Since then he verified 

 his identification by the figure and description of this species in 

 Mr. Chapman's book, Birds of Eastern North America. It may be 

 stated that other species, whose identification rests on Mr. Miles' 

 authority, have been confirmed by him in the same manner. 



Genus CHARITONETTA Stejneger. 



28. Charitonetta albeola (L.). Buffle Head. 



Specimens in mounted collection of Mr. Schmidt. This bird, Mr. 

 Miles informs me, is called "Baldpate" by the gunners in his region. 



Genus CLANGULA Leach. 



29. Clangula hyemalis (L. ). Old Squaw. 



Respecting this species Mr. Miles says: "Have seen once." 



Genus ERISMATTJRA Bonaparte. 



30. Erismatura rubida (Wils. ). Ruddy Duck. 



Mounted specimens examined. Mr. Miles describes the "Partridge 

 Duck," by which name alone it is known to the gunners 

 of West Tennessee. This name is not to be found in Trum- 

 bull's book. Mr. Miles has killed them in Haywood and Lauder- 

 dale Counties in February, November and December, and says: 

 " Not common here at any time, but always known." In a subse- 

 quent letter he fails to identify his "Partridge Duck" with this or 

 any other species described in Mr. Chapman's Ornithology. I con- 

 tinue to think, however, that it is the Ruddy Duck. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Genus CHEN Boie. 



31. Chen hyperborean Snow Goose. 



A Snow Goose, presumably the lesser variety, was seen during 



the winter of 1898-94, in Haywood County, by Mr. B. C. Miles. 



It remained there all winter in the company of a flock of Canada 



Geese. 



Genus BEANTA Scopoli. 



32. Branta canadensis (L. ). Canada Goose. 



Soon after my arrival at Samburg I was surprised to hear the 

 honking of a flock of wild geese. The noise continuing I was im- 

 pressed by its resemblance to that made by the Canada Goose, and 

 asked my landlord what it meant, as it seemed to proceed from the 

 mainland instead of the lake. He told me it came from a flock of 

 Canada Geese, which had been raised some years previously from 

 a set of eggs taken on the lake. 1 A few days later I came across 

 the birds in a little meadow behind the village and found them to 

 be exactly as represented. Long familiarity with man had com- 

 pletely reversed their natures. So far from showing alarm at my 

 approach they greeted me hoisterously, and, led by a large gander, 

 advanced to meet me with outstretched necks and a chorus of defiant 

 notes. This gave me a fine opportunity to determine that they were 

 typical canadensis, and at the same time test the strength of a wing- 

 shot from the enraged gander as he danced around for a flank move- 

 ment while I was making advances upon his family. Strange to 

 say, these geese never showed any disposition to wander beyond the 

 village limits, though they had free access to the lake, either by 

 walking or by swimming down Indian Creek. Mr. H. B. Young, 

 who has fished and trapped in this region for many years, gave me 

 some interesting notes on the habits of these birds. Old residents 

 agree that twenty years ago not a goose remained to breed in that 

 country. At the present time several pairs, perhaps as many as 

 twenty, nest there every season, and two or three sets of eggs are 

 yearly transferred from their care to that of domestic fowls. 



At Reelfoot Lake the goose nearly always builds in the top of a 

 blasted tree over the water, sometimes nesting as high as fifty feet or 

 even higher. When the young are hatched the gander soon gets 

 notice of it and swims around the foot of the tree uttering loud cries. 



1 See L. O. Pindar, Auk. III. 1886. p. 481, for a previous record. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



On a signal from mother goose he redoubles his outcries aud, describing 

 a large circle immediately beneath the nest, beats the water with his 

 wings, dives, paddles and slashes about with the greatest fury, mak- 

 ing such a terrible noise and commotion that he can be heard for 

 several miles. This effectually drives away from that spot every 

 catfish, spoonbill, loggerhead, hellbender, moccasin, water-snake, 

 eagle, mink and otter that might take a fancy to young goslings 

 and into the midst of the commotion, mother goose, by a few deft 

 thrusts of her bill, spills the whole nestful. But a few seconds 

 elapse ere the reunited family are noiselessly paddling for the shores 

 of some secluded cove with nothing to mark the scene of their ex- 

 ploits but a few feathers and upturned water-plants and above 

 them the huge white cypress with its deserted nest. 



" Nearly every summer young geese were captured at Open Lake, 

 in Lauderdale County, but they never breed there now, I hear." 

 B. C. Miles. 



33. TBranta nigricans (Lawr. ) Black Brant. 



I have the following from Mr. Miles. "We have the Black- 

 breasted Brant, one of which I killed many years ago." Whether 

 this was nigricans or our eastern bernicla is uncertain. Judging 

 by the name used by Mr. Miles and the fact that nigricans is often 

 taken in the Mississippi Valley, it was very likely the former. 



Genus OLOR Wagler. 



34. Olor columbianus (Ord). Whistling Swan. 



35. Olor buccinator (Rich. ). Trumpeter Swan. 



Swans are now rather rare at Reelfoot Lake. A few were seen 

 the present (1895) spring, but which species it is difficult to state. 

 That both species are likely to pass along the Mississippi Valley is 

 sufficient reason for not omitting Columbian its, which is the rarer of 

 the two in that regidn. 



Mr. Miles writes: "The Swan was formerly quite plentiful here, 

 though I doubt if one has been seen in this or Lauderdale County, 

 on the water, in ten years." 



Order HERODIONES. 



Family ARDEIDiE. 



Genus BOTAURUS Stephens. 



36. Botaurus lentiginosus ( Montag. ). American Bittern. 



Two of these birds were killed (presumably in Haywood Co.) by 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Mr. B. C. Miles, "in broom sedge on a hill." Mr. Miles writes: — 

 " I am certain he does not breed here." 



Genus ARDETTA Gray. 



37. Ardetta exilis (Gmel.). Least Bittern. 

 Mounted specimens in Mr. Schmidt's collection. 



Genus ARDEA Linnseus. 



38. Ardea herodias L. Great Blue Heron. 



Becoming a rare bird in Tennessee. A few mounted specimens 

 were seen. Living birds were noted at Sarnburg, Memphis, Raleigh 

 and Harriman. Dr. Merriam notes one July 29, 1887, in the 

 valley of the Little Tennessee. Haywood and Landerdale Counties; 

 Miles. 



39. Ardea oandidissima Gmel. Snowy Heron. 



Two or three mounted specimens examined. " Seen in flocks of 

 1 2 or 15, apparently on passage and again singly"; Miles. 



40. Ardea virescens L. Green Heron. 



Observed all across the State. Dr. Fox and Mr. Langdon both 



record it. 



Genus NYCTICORAX Stephens. 



41. Nycticorax nycticorax naevius (Bodd.). Black-crowned Night Heron. 



I did not see this species, but heard one at night at Greeneville. 



Dr. Fox records it from Roane County. Its apparent absence from 



western Tennessee is unaccountable to me. Mr. Miles never saw 



one there. 



Order PALUDICOL^. 



Family GRUIDJE. 

 Genus GRTJS Pallas. 



42. Grus americana (L. ). Whooping Crane. 



43. Grus mexicana (Mull.). Sandhill Crane. 



Respecting these Mr. Miles writes: — "All the cranes you describe, 

 save the red head, have seen in last 25 years, and my friends have 

 killed them up to ten years since. All are [were] on flight." The 

 words, "save the red head" apply to breeding males of G. mexicana 

 which Mr. Miles has evidently not seen. It is probable that his 

 remarks apply also to the little Brown Crane, G. canadensis. 



Genus RALLUS Linnseus. 



44. *Rallus elegans And. King Rail. 



One was taken alive in the office of the Rossmore Hotel, Chatta- 

 nooga, during my stay there. It was apparently a breeding bird. 




1895.] NATURAE SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



Genus PORZANA Vieillot. 

 4 5 *Porzana Carolina (L.). Sora Rail. 



Abundant around Reelfoot Lake, where, by its noise and actions' 

 it seemed to be breeding. 



A specimen was taken and another seen near Bellevue on the 

 20th of May in a small upland swamp. 



Genus GALLINULA Brisson. 



46. Gallinula galeata (Licht. ). Florida Gallinule. 



This is without much doubt the "Lead-colored Dumpy Duck" 

 which Mr. Miles includes among the species which breed in his 

 region. He says it is ' 'rarely seen now, but common 20 years since — 

 not fit for table," etc. He does not confound this with the Coot, 

 which he describes (I.e. J as distinct. 



Genus FTJLICA Linnasus. 



47. Fulica americana Gmel. American Coot. 



Abundant on Reelfoot Lake where they breed. Reported also 

 from the interior; Nashville. Several in the city park at Memphis. 

 Roane County; Fox. Under the name " Didopper," Mr. Miles 

 gives a careful and accurate description of this bird, stating it to be 

 common in all waters. He has killed them on flats several hundred 

 yards from water. 



Order LIMICOL^. 

 Family SCOLOPACIDJE. 



Genus PHILOHELA Gray. 



48. Philohela minor (Gmel.). American Woodcock. 



Reported from several points, and specimens examined, but not 

 seen in the flesh. Roane County; Fox. More numerous in mi- 

 grations in Haywood County. "Very scarce of late years, though 

 even now they nest with us." — Miles. 



Genus GALLINAGO Leach. 



49. Gallinago delicata (Ord). Wilson's Snipe. 



Noted at Samburg and Memphis. Fox says they are abundant 

 in Roane County during spring migrations. "In large numbers 

 some years and in others not at all," in Haywood County. U A few, 

 I have heard, breed here, never saw a nest." — Miles. 



Genus EREUNETES Illiger. 



50. TEreunetes pusillus (L. ). Semipalmated Sandpiper. 



Four or five sandpipers were seen on the shores of a rocky pond 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



on South Harpeth river in the northern corner of Williamson 

 County, They were very tame, heing gorged with the small mol- 

 lusks (Strepomatidte) abounding on the half-exposed rocks, and I 

 feel assured of the correctness of my identification. This is probably 

 the species seen in company with Wilson's plover in Haywood 

 County by Mr. Miles. 



Genus TOTANUS Bechstein. 



51. Totanus melanoleucus (Grnel.1. Greater Yellow Legs. 



One was seen in company with the sandpipers above noted. 

 Another was heard at Samburg and stuffed specimens noted at 

 Memphis. 



52. Totanus solitarius ( Wils. ). Solitary Sandpiper. 



Observed at Samburg, Memphis, Raleigh, Nashville and Belle- 

 vue. Noted in spring in Roane County by Fox and in the Chilhowee 

 Mountains in late August by Langdon. 



The late date at which I observed a pair near Bellevue (May 



20th.) would indicate that they do not go far out of the State to 



breed. 



Genus BARTRAMIA Lesson. 



53. Bartramia longicauda (Bechst. ). Bartraraian Sandpiper. 



I did not observe this species, though I fancied I heard it passing 

 over in West Tennessee. It is doubtful that it breeds at all in the 

 exact localities I explored, but owing to its peculiarly local prefer- 

 ences, will no doubt be found to summer in'some of the country en 

 route. Dr. Merriam observed five plover flying over Athens, 

 McMinn Co., " which seemed to be this species." 



Genus ACTITIS Boie. 



54. Actitis macularia (L. ). Spotted Sandpiper. 



Numerous all over the State below 3,000 feet elevation, but rarer 

 among the mountains. 



Genus NUMENIUS Brisson. 

 56. ?Numenius longirostris Wils. Long-billed Curlew. 

 Stuffed specimens seen at Memphis. 



Family CHARADRIIDJE. 



Genus JEGIALITIS Boie. 

 56. JEgialitis vooifera (L. ). Kildeer. 



Seen at Nashville, Bellevue, Chattanooga, and Johnson City. 

 Roane Co., Fox. Not noted in West Tennessee; Miles. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 475 



57. TJEgialitis semipalmata Bonap. Ken ii pal mated Plover. 



58. I-Egialitis meloda circumcincta Ridgw. Belted Piping Plover. 



One or both of these species are alluded to by Mr. Miles as Ring- 

 neck Plovers, with a call note "Pee, Pee," which remain "a few 

 days in spring and fall," in company with another species without 

 the ring. The latter was probably a Sandpiper, Erewietes. 



Order GALLING. 



Genus COLINUS Lesson. 



59. Colinus virginianus (L.). Bob White. 



In no part of the United States have I seen our eastern Quail so 

 abundant as it was in West and Middle Tennessee. It was also 

 numerous in the mountains, a pair being seen on Roan Mountain 

 just below the fir belt at a height of nearly 5,000 feet. 



Genus BONASA Stephens. 



60. Bonasa umbellus (L. ). Ruffed Grouse. 



Seen at Sawyer's Springs, Harriman, Allardt, Johnson City and 

 Roan Mountain. In my experience I would say this bird was rare 

 in all localities. Fox says ''rather common in the mountains" of 

 Roan Co. Langdon saw one on Mt. Nebo. Lookout Mountain; Fox 



Genus MELEAGRIS Linnaeus. 



61. Meleagris gallopavo L. Wild Turkey. 



The Turkey exists in considerable numbers in secluded parts of 

 the Cumberland plateau and the Great Smoky Range. It was 

 reported to me at Sawyer's Springs, Allardt, and Roan Mountain, 

 but I did not see any. Roan Co., Fox. Chilhowee Mts., Langdon. 



Mr. Miles informs me that in Haywood County it is a rather 

 scarce bird but in the last few years it seems to be "on the 

 increase." Continuing, he writes: "In 1891 saw a drove number- 

 ing at least forty, this in February, and know of at least ten broods 

 now ... in the county. Last year there were killed about forty 

 that I saw or heard of." 



Genus ECTOPISTES Swainson. 



62. Eotopistes migratorius (L.). Passenger Pigeon 



The general verdict of Tennesseeans regarding this bird is in line 

 with that of other parts of the country. They are rarely seen, some 

 dating the last occurrence of the species in Tennessee back nine years. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



For the best account of the disappearance of this celebrated bird in 

 Tennessee, I am again indebted to Mr. Miles; he says: "Wild 

 Pigeons last visited our section [Brownsville] in numbers in the 

 year 1881, but were not as numerous as about eight years before — 

 I remember that I remarked then they were depleted. In the 

 fall of 1893, Mr. Riddick of this town killed one of a flock of eight, 

 five miles from here — the last I know of being in the county. The 

 first I remember of them must have been in the year 1851, when I 

 was five years old. They roosted that fall ten miles from here and 

 about a mile from our home. Permission was given me to go with 

 the negroes to the roost, and I well remember one of them put me in 

 a cotton hamper and carried me on his shoulders, and how scared I 

 was at the noise when we arrived — however, we got our bags and 

 baskets full; killed them with poles — and got back early. That was 

 my first taste of sport and I have been a sportsman ever since. As 

 near as I can recall the dates, we had them in 1853-1855 — that 

 year I had a gun and shot them in Carroll County, this State. In 

 1856 I went to Virginia ... In 1863 in Virginia they were as 

 plenty as ever. In 1865 I was here [Brownsville] and that fall a 

 few came in scattering flocks and I was ready for them. In 1866 

 there were more than in '65, in '67 more still, though not in the 

 overwhelming numbers, and we feared their extermination then. 

 Thence till '81, while there were every year more or less to be 

 killed easily, we saw them no more in droves. That year they came 

 for the last time, and as though to take our farewell shot, every one, 

 black and white, turned out and the slaughter was fearful, and 

 months after they left, the wounded could be found . . . and I 

 heard and believe that in isolated cases they nested in our bottoms 

 — the only cases I heard of here in my day, though the negroes told 

 me of the time they used to nest here — as near as I could guess, in 

 the '40s." 



Genus ZENAIDURA Bonaparte. 



63. Zenaidura macroura (L.). Mourning Dove. 



Very abundant everywhere, except in the mountains, where it 

 becomes rare at 3,000 feet elevation. 



Genus COLUMBIGALLINA Boie. 



64. Columbigallina passerina terrestris (Chapm.). Ground Dove. 



I was greatly surprised while walking along the road from Harri- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



man to Kingston, about a half mile from the former town, to see a 

 Ground Dove stepping along only fifty feet ahead of me. It flew 

 kito a tree by the roadside, and as I approached, flew away entirely 

 out of sight. 



The small size and square cut tail, to say nothing of its color, so 

 positively showed it to be this species that I have little hesitation in 

 including it here. Had I not formerly made the acquaintance of 

 this bird in Florida, and become aware of its having been taken in 

 the District of Columbia and at Locke, Michigan, this occurrence 

 would have been passed over as a case of mistaken identity. There 

 is no probability that the Ground Dove is more than a straggler 

 across the eastern confines of the Appalachian system at this latitude. 

 It is more probable this bird came directly north from Georgia or 

 Alabama than from the Carolinas, and its casual occurrence in 

 Southwestern Tennessee would be far less extraordinary than the 

 one just recorded. 



Order RAPTORES. 



Family CATHARTIDJE. 

 Genus CATHARTES Illiger. 



65. Cathartes aura (L.). Turkey Vulture. 



I saw this useful and conspicuous bird wherever I remained long 

 enough to make any records. It was seen above Roan Mountain. 

 They breed in great numbers along the east escarpment of the 

 Cumberland Plateau. 



Genus CATHARISTA Vieillot. 



66. Cathari3ta atrata (Bartr.) Black Vulture. 



The abundance of this species all over the State was a surprise to 

 me. It was not found, however, east of the Tennessee Valley, but 

 was observed at nearly every other station. It was nearly always 

 in company with the Turkey Vulture m the proportion of one atrata 

 to three nura, and they were evidently nesting together along the 

 rocky clifls east of Sawyer's Springs which overlook the wide valley 

 of East Tennessee. Fox records them in flocks in Roane County. 

 Monroe County, " breeds," Lemoyne. " Breeds in the Forked Deer 

 bottom, 10 miles N. E. of" Brownsville, B. C. Miles. Lookout 

 Mountain, " breeds," Fox. 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Family FALCONID.SJ. 

 Genus ELANOIDES Vieillot. . 



67. Elanoides forficatus (L.). Swallow-tailed Kite. 



Wilson's is the first arid only Tennessee record for this Kite 

 that I can discover. In the American Ornithology he says 

 (Vol. VI, 1812, p. 70); "I met these birds, in the early part of 

 May at a place called Duck Creek, in Tennessee." 



From the known course of his route, this was in Hickman 

 County, about forty miles east of the Tennessee River, in the Duck 

 River bottoms near the east boundary of Maury County. The 

 Swallow-tailed Kite is likely to be found anywhere in west Tennes- 

 see in summer, where the bottom lands afford it congenial sur- 

 roundings and good nesting sites. 



Of this species Mr. Miles writes: "I think I killed one fifteen 

 years since, and have seen one since, though very rare." 



Genus ELANUS Savigny. 



68. Elanus leucurus (Vieill.). White-tailed Kite. 



Haywood and Lauderdale Counties; B. C. Miles. See note for 

 next species. 



Genus ICTINIA Vieillot. 



69. Ictinia mississippiensis (Wils. ). Mississippi Kite. 



A Kite, whose appearance most closely resembled this species, 

 was seen soaring for a long time over a meadow near Raleigh. 

 From its actions I judged it to have a nest in the neighborhood. 

 Mr. Miles refers to this and the preceding species as follows: "Of 

 the hawk we call the Blue Darter we have two, one marked as 

 you describe [Elanus leucurus'] and one noticeably darker [Ictinia 

 mississippiensis'] have thought heretofore they were the sexes." 



Genus CIRCUS Lacepede. 



70. Circus hudsonius (L.). Marsh Hawk. 



Single individuals seen at Samburg, Raleigh, Bellevue and Har- 

 riman. Messrs. Fox and Langdon do not record it. 



Genus ACCIPITER Brisson 



71. Accipiter velox (Wils.). Sharp-shinned Hawk. 



Noted by Lemoyne along the Smoky Mountain range, where he 

 found it "not common." 




1895.] NATUKAJ, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



Genus BUTEO Cuvier. 



72. Buteo borealis (Gmel.). Red-tailed Hawk. 



73. Buteo lineatus (Gmel. ). Red-shouldered Hawk. 



My records of these are too confused to separate them. Both 

 species however were seen and identified both alive and stuffed. 



Western records of borealis were made on hearing their notes, 

 but I afterwards found that the jays of that region imitated these 

 with such exactness that I could not rely on the records I had pre- 

 viously made. 



Both of these hawks are rare summer residents in the parts 

 visited by me. 



74. Buteo latissimus (Wils. ). Broad-winged Hawk. 



In east Tennessee this is the most abundant hawk, especially so 

 among the mountains, where I found it at the loftiest elevations. 



Genus AQTJILA Brisson. 



75. Aquila chvysaetos (L.). Golden Eagle. 



This eagle is occasionally seen at Roan Mountain, in which neigh- 

 borhood they are resident. 



Set of eggs and nesting birds taken on Bald Mountain (Blount 

 County); Lemoyne. . 



Genus HALIJEETUS Savigny. 



76. Haliseetus leucocephalus (L. ). Bald Eagle. 



Several mounted skins were noted. It is said to breed at Sam- 

 burg. I think I saw one from the top of Roan Mountain. Saw 

 one in a cage at Union City. 



Genus FALCO Linnaeus. 



77. Falco peregrinus anatum (Bonap.). Duck Hawk. 



While watching a flock of vultures circle about me on the cliffs 

 near Sawyer's Springs a Duck Hawk suddenly dashed among them 

 with a shrill scream and in a few moments had scattered them far 

 away over the valley. It then returned to its eyrie near the cas- 

 cade of Falling Water. Breeding in the Great Smoky Mountains, 

 Lemoyne. 



78. Falco sparverius L. Sparrow Hawk. 



Noted at Samburg, Raleigh, Bellevue and Chattanooga, and at 

 intermediate points along the railroad lines. Not as common as in 

 the Middle States. Not seen in the mountains, but noted there by 

 Fox and Langdon and Lemoyne, the latter stating it is rare. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Genus PANDION. 



79. Pandion haliaetus carolinensis (G-niel. ). American Osprey. 



Seen in Roan County in April by Fox. I did not see it at Sam- 

 l)ii rg but the fishermen there spoke of it. Great Smoky Range, 

 Lemoyne. 



Family STRIGIDjE. 



Genus STRIX Linnseus. 



80. Strix pratincola Bonap. Barn Owl. 



A pair of these in captivity were examined at Union City. 



Genus SYRNIUM Savigny. 



81. Syrnium nebulosum (Forst.). Barred Owl. 



The unmistakable call of this owl was heard at Samburg, Raleigh 

 and Bel lev ue. Breeding at base of Bald Mountain (Blount 

 County); common at all altitudes in the Smokies; Lemoyne. 



Genus MEGASCOPS Kaup. 



82. Megascops asio (L.). Screech Owl. 



Mounted specimens were the only ocular proof J had of the 

 presence of this bird in Tennessee. I did not even hear one during 

 the entire trip, but was assured of their being common enough for 

 the every day needs of the more superstitious natives. Chilhowee 

 Mountains; Laugdon. Roane County; Fox. Not common in the 

 Great Smoky Mountains; Lemoyne. 



Genus BUBO Dumeril. 



83. Bubo virginianus (Gmel. ). Great Horned Owl. 



Noted from Samburg, Raleigh and Sawyer's Springs and mounted 

 specimens examined. Laugdon noted it at 4,000 feet in the mountains. 

 The most common owl in the Smokies; Lemoyne. 



Order PSITTACI. 



Family PSITTACID^E. 

 Genus CONURUS Kuhl. 



84. Conurus carolinensis (L. ). Carolina Paroquet. . 



The first notice of this bird in Tennessee was made by Alexander 

 Wilson in a letter written to Alexander Lawson, dated April 20th, 

 1810, in which he states: "As I entered the State of Tennessee, the 

 face of the country became hilly and even mountainous. After 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



descending an immense declivity and coursing along the rich valley 

 of Mansker's Creek, where I again met with large flocks of paroquets, 

 I stopped at a small tavern," etc. This was during his trip from 

 Lexington to Natchez. Again in his journal, dated April 25th of 

 the same year, is the following entry: — "Breakfasted at Walton's, 

 thirteen miles from Nashville. This place is a hue, rich hollow, 

 watered by a charming, clear creek, that never fails. Went up to 

 Madison's Lick, where I shot three paroquets and some small birds." 



Mansker's Creek was north of Nashville, probably in Robertson 

 County. Madison's Lick is in the Cumberland Valley, Davidson 

 County. These records were not published until 1828, when George 

 Orel issued a more complete edition of his "Sketch" of Wilson, 

 containing many letters not in the first edition and among them the 

 one to Lawson containing the above notes. 



In his Ornithology (1811) Wilson (Vol. Ill, p. 91) gives 

 Madison's Lick as the first place in Teuuessee in which he saw 

 Parrots, and continues: "In passing on I next met with them on the 



banks and rich flats of the Tennessee River;" The latter 



region, however, is the debatable one of the old " Natchez Trace" 

 road which here crossed the Tennessee line in the southwest corner 

 of Wayne County and the northwestern corner of Lauderdale County. 

 Alabama and thence south into Tishomingo County, Mississippi, 

 It is not unlikely that he saw paroquets in all of these counties; 

 certainly at least, in Alabama, a fact overlooked by Hasbrouck in 

 his paper in the Auk on this bird. 



From what is known of the breeding habits, of the Carolina Paro- 

 quet in other localities there is no doubt that it was a summer resi- 

 dent in the river bottoms of west Tennessee in Wilson's day. 



Mr. Miles communicates the following valuable note on the 

 Paroquet in a recent letter: — " In the early 50's a flock of Paroquets 

 came to our orchard [near Brownsville] and we chased them out and 

 killed them with sticks and apples; saw a flock at Ashport [Lauder- 

 dale County] on the Mississippi River 100 in number in 1874, and 

 saw one killed alone, within five miles of this [Brownsville] in 1876 

 — the last I have ever heard of." 




482 PROCEEDINGS <>F THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Order COCCYGES. 

 Family CUCULIDJE. 

 Genus COCCYZUS Vieillot. 



85. Coocyzus americanus (L.). Yellow-hilled (Cuckoo. 



86. Coccyzus erythrophthalmus (Wils. ). Black-billed Cuckoo. 



Cuckoos were noted at all points visited, except the top of Roan 

 Mountain. From the character of their notes, (by which alone the 

 Black-billed species was identified) I judge there were five times as 

 many of the former as of the latter. It is probable, however, that the 

 Black-billed Cuckoo is much less noisy and hence less often observed. 

 Dr. Merriam records, "Coccyzus. Heard several times;" at Athens. 

 Fox and Langdon make no mention of either species. 



Family ALCEDLNTDJE. 

 Genus CERYLE Boie. 



87. Ceryle alcyon (L.). Belted Kingfisher. 



A common summer resident at all collecting stations except on 

 the tops of the higher mountains. Not seen at Allardt or Sawyer's 

 Springs, but going up the escarpment, they were noted nearly to 

 the plateau. Langdon found them in the coves of Little River. I 

 did not see any above 4,000 feet on Roan Mountain. 



Order PICI. 

 Family PICIDJE. 



Genus DRYOBATES Boie. 



88. Dryobates villosus ( L. ). Hairy Woodpecker. 



A common bird all across the State, from high mountain top to 

 the Mississippi bottoms. Typical villosus is undoubtedly the high 

 mountain form of the Great Smoky Range. It is so identified by 

 Mr. Ridgway from Langdon's Chilhowee specimens. 



89. Dryobates villosus auduboni (Swaius. ). Southern Hah-y Woodpecker. 



Mr. Ridgway identified Fox's Roane County specimens with this 

 form. 



It is likely that the Hairy Woodpeckers at Memphis and Sam- 

 hurg will be found to be more typical of it. 



90. Dryobates pubescens (L.). Downy Woodpecker. 



Equally abundant and with the same distribution over the entire 

 State as the preceding, except in the higher elevations, where it is 

 less numerous than villosus. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 483 



91. *Dryobates borealis ( Vieill. ). Red-cockaded Woodpecker. 



This bird was found breeding on the Cumberland plateau at 

 Allardt and on the route from Allardt to Rugby Road in Morgan 

 and Scott Counties. I did not see it elsewhere. Two specimens 

 were secured. At Allardt the nests were excavated at a height 

 of thirty or forty feet in living pine trees. The young were nearly 

 fledged at that date, June 8th. Fox calls it a rare bird at Rock- 

 wood, in spring, where he took a specimen April 22nd. 



Genus SPHYRAPICTJS Baird. 



92. Sphyrapicus varius (L. ). Yellow-bellied Sapsucker. 



A pair were seen along Doe River, Roan Mountain, at an eleva- 

 tion of about 4,000 feet. They acted as if they had a nest near by. 



Fox records them as "not very common" in spring in Roan 



County. These were probably migrants. It is doubtful if any 



breed in the Cumberland Mountains of Tennessee. Langdon did 



not find them. 



Genus CEOPHL(EUS Cabani*. 



93. Ceophloeus pileatus (L. ). Pileated Woodpecker. 



Seen or heard at Samburg, Raleigh, Bellevue, Harriman, Al- 

 lardt and Greeneville. Reported by both Fox and Langdon. It 

 is found on Roan Mountain. Little Tennessee Valley; Merriam. 



Genus MELANERPES Swainson. 



94. Melanerpes erythroeephalus (L. ). Red-headed Woodpecker. 



Very abundant in west and middle Tennessee, but rare at higher 

 altitudes in the east. I recorded it at Samburg, Raleigh, Bellevue, 

 Chattanooga, Harriman and Allardt. Fox records one spring 

 example; Langdon says it is "common about clearings in the foot- 

 hills" of the Chilhowee Mountains, but not found above 1,500 feet. 

 Abundant at Athens, Merriam. 



95. *Melanerpes carolinus (L.). Red-bellied Woodpecker. 



Very abundant at Samburg and Raleigh. Several seen at 

 Bellevue, Chattanooga, Sawyer's Springs and Harriman. Fox says 

 it was "rather common" in April, 1885, at Rockwood. 



Genus COLAPTES Swainson. 

 95. Colaptes auratus ( L. ). Flicker. 



Nowhere did I find this bird as abundant as in the Middle 

 States, but it was seen in all localities, from river bottom to moun- 

 33 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



tain peak, being one of the few lowland birds which makes its 

 home at Cloudlaud. 



I am unable to include among the Woodpeckers of Tennessee 

 the Ivory- billed, Campephilus principalis, owing to absence of any 

 records. Mr. Hasbrouck (I.e. ) refers to it thus: "For Tennesssee 

 no records have been found, although it would seem highly probable 

 that the bird occurs in the bottom lands bordering the Mississippi 

 especially when we consider the records from Fulton County, Ken- 

 tucky . . . and also those directly south in Louisiana and west 

 in Arkansas." 



Order MACROOHIRES. 

 Family CAPRIMULGIDjE. 



Genus ANTROSTOMUS Gould. 

 97. Antrostomus carolinensis (Gmel.). Ohuck-will's widow. 



Heard several every night of my stay at Raleigh. The Whip- 

 poorwill was not heard there. Fox doubtfully refers a Goatsucker 

 seen near Rockwood to this species. Wilson first encountered this 

 bird on the banks of the Cumberland near Nashville, in his jour- 

 ney from Lexington to Natchez. 



97. Antrostomus vociferus ( Wils. ). Whippoorwill. 



I have records of this species from Samburg, Bellevue, Chatta- 

 nooga and Allardt. At the last mentioned place it was very nu- 

 merous. Other observers do not mention it. 



Genus CHORDEILES Swainson. 



98. *Chordeiles virginianus (Gmel.). Nighthawk. 



This bird was noted in the lowlands all across the State but not 

 in the mountains. Fox, Laugdon and Merriam record it from 

 their respective stations, Langdon having seen it on Scott Mountain. 



It is likely that subspecies henryi will be taken in west Tennessee, 

 as it has been in Illinois. 



Family MICROPODIDJE. 



Genus CHJETURA Stephens 



99. Chaetura pelagica (L. ). Chimney Swift. 



Found everywhere. Nesting in chimneys of Cloudlaud Hotel. 




1895.] NATURAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



Family TROCHILIDJE. 



Genus TROCHILTJS Linnseus. 



100. Troohilus oolubris (L. ). Ruby-throated Humming-bird. 



Not seen on top of Roan Mountain, but up to a high altitude, say 

 4,500 to 5,000 feet. Elsewhere in Tennessee it is a cosmopolite. 

 Langdon limits it to 3,000 feet in the Chilhowee regions. 



Order PASSERES. 



Family TYRANNID^. 



Genus TYRANNUS Ouvier. 



101. Tyrannus tyrannus (L.). King Bird. 



The only locality where this abundant summer resident was not 

 seen was among the higher reaches of Roan Mountain. Not seeu, 

 but probably found, at Roan Mountain Station. Langdon did not 

 find it above the "coves." 



Genus MYIARCHUS Cabanis. 



102. Myiarchus crinitus (L.). Crested Fly-catcher. 



My notes say "everywhere" for this flycatcher. The only possible 

 exception to this is the summit of Roan Mountain. It comes up 

 some distance into • the fir belt, nevertheless. Strange to say, 

 Lauo-don does not mention it, nor is it recorded by Dr. Merriam. It 

 is abundant in west and middle districts. 



Genus SAYORNIS Bonaparte. 



103. Sayornis phoebe ( Lath.). Phrebe. 



Not observed west of the valley of east Tennessee. Recorded first 

 at Chattanooga, also at Sawyer's Springs, Harriman, Allardt, John- 

 son City and Roau Mountain Station. At Rockwood; "common," 

 Fox. Athens, "not common;" Merriam. Not given by Langdon. 

 I saw very few anywhere. 



Genus CONTOPUS Cabanis. 



104. Contopus borealis (Swains.). Olive-sided Flycatcher. 



Passing down Rock Creek valley on the northwest side of Roan 

 Mountain I heard the weird, striking cry of this species and my 

 search was soon rewarded by seeing the bird catching insects from 

 the top of a lofty dead hemlock along the roadside. The place was 

 a narrow cove and the altitude about 4,000 feet. About two miles 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



from this spot on the cross road to the Doe River valley I found 

 another in a similar environment. This flycatcher was found in the 

 mountains of western North Carolina by Mr. Brewster but is not 

 given in previous Tennessee records. It is a rare summer resident 

 in this region. 



105. Contopus virens (L.). Wood Pewee. 



This flycatcher was found all over the state, including the moun- 

 tains, up to the fir belt. 



Genus EMPIDONAX Cabanis. 



106. Empidonax aoadicus (Gmel.). Acadian Flycatcher. 



The absence of all members of this genus from the lists of Fox 

 and Langdon is a surprise to me, as I found the Acadian everywhere 

 below 8,500 over the entire state. It was abundant in west and 

 middle Tennessee. Dr. Merriam lists it as common near Athens ; 

 also giving it in his list of Little Tennessee birds. 



107. *Empidonax pusillus traillii (And.). Traill's Flycatcher. 



A male, in full song, was shot near Bellevue. It was undoubt- 

 edly a migrant. 



108. Empidonax minimus (Baird). Least Flycatcher. 



As a migrant, I saw this species at Samburg and Raleigh. It 

 breeds at Roan Mountain Station and thence up the Doe River 

 Valley to near the limit of deciduous trees, say 4,500 feet. 



Family CORVIDiE. 



Genus CYAN0CITTA Strickland. 



109. Cyanocitta cristata (L.). Blue Jay. 



Everywhere present, but much more abundant in the lowlands, 

 especially in the Mississippi bottoms. I did not see it on the summit 

 of Roan Mountain but it probably reaches that elevation as a 

 straggler. Langdon sets the limit at 4,000 feet in the Chilhowee 

 Mountains. 



Genus CORVUS Linnaeus. 



110. Corvus corax sinuatus (Wagl.). Mexican Raven. 



Pairs noted around the top of Roan Mountain. Fox observed 

 them near Rockwood. . Specimens of the Allegheny Mountain Raven 

 show that it is intermedite between the Arctic and Mexican forms. 

 Lookout Mountain, "common," Fox. 




lK9f).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



111. Corvus americanus (Aud.). American Crow. 



The Crow was not abundant but everywhere represented, except 

 in the evergreen mountain belt. Langdon did not find it above 

 3,000 feet, but it attains a much greater elevation. 



Family ICTERIDJE. 



Genus DOLICHONYX Swainson. 



112. Dolichonyx oryzivorus (L.). Bobolink. 



Abundant as a migrant at Samburg and Raleigh. Also seen at 

 Bellevue and Chattanooga but I have no evidence that they breed in 

 those localities other than the late date of their presence there. 



Genus MOLOTHRTJS Swainson. 



113. Molothrus ater (Bodd.). Cow-bird. 



Noted at Samburg and, questionably at Raleigh. I should say 

 this species was rare in summer in Tennessee. Fox says it is 

 not common in Roane County. 



Genus AGELAITJS Vieillot. 



114. Agelaius phoeniceus (L. ). Red-winged Blackbird. 



Breeding all over the state, but less abundant than in the Middle 

 States. I did not observe it on Roan Mountain, nor does Langdon 

 record it. 



Genus STURNELLA Vieillot. 



115. Sturnella magna (L.). Meadowlark. 



Distribution same as with the preceding species, but more uni- 

 formly abundant. It was noted around Roan Mountain Station. 



Genus ICTERUS Brisson. 



116. Icterus spurius (L.). Orchard Oriole. 



117. Icterus galbula (L.). Baltimore Oriole. 



Both species abundant and with the same distribution all over the 

 state, except above 3,500 to 4,000 feet in the Smoky Mountains. 



Ot the two, the Baltimore was the most abundant, more numerous, 

 indeed, than I ever saw it elsewhere in the United States. 



Genus SCOLECOPHAGUS Swainson. 



118. Soolecophagus carolinus (Mull. ). Rusty Blackbird. 



Migrating in flocks with Cow-birds and Redwings at Samburg. 

 Rockwood, Fox. 




488 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1895. 



Genus QUISCALUS Vieillot. 



119. Quiscalus quiscula (L.). Purple Grackle. 



Admitted on evidence of nine specimens procured by Dr. Fox in 

 Roane County and identified by Mr. Ridgway, who states (footnote) 

 that this appears to be the prevailing form in east Tennessee. 



I observed Grackles at Chattanooga, Harriman, Knoxville, 

 Greeneville and Johnson City, but none were secured. Found at 

 Athens, Merriam. 



120. *Quiscalus quiscula aeneus (Baird). Bronzed Grackle. 



Four breeding birds shot at Samburg are typical emeus. In the 

 absence of contrary evidence, the Grackles noted at Raleigh and 

 Bellevue are likewise referable to this form. 



Reelfoot Lake, with its ruined, half- submerged forest of decaying 

 trees affords ideal building sites for a large colony of these birds. In 

 that locality they appear to invariably select a cavity (either 

 natural, or one made by woodpeckers ) in dead trees standing in deep 

 water, in which to rear their young. Some of these are at a great 

 elevation, others were found in stubs only ten feet high. Two 

 specimens of this race were taken by Dr. Fox near Rockwood. 



Family FRING-ILLIDJE. 



Genus CARPODACUS Kaup. 



121. Carpodacus purpureus (Gmel.). Purple Finch. 



The only record known to me is that of Dr. Fox who secured 

 specimens in March in Roane County. I had expected to find it on 

 Roan Mountain but none were met with. 



Genus LOXIA Linnaeus. 



122. Loxia curvirostra minor ( Brehm. ). American Crossbill. 



The peculiar flight notes of this species were heard near the 

 summit of Roan Mountain, where it undoubtedly breeds. 



Genus ACANTHIS Bechstein. 



123. Acanthis linaria (L. ). Kedpoll. 



Mr. Miles records, January 9, 1884, large numbers of Redpolls in 

 his yard ten miles north of Brownsville. Two or three were seen on 

 another occasion. 



Genus SPINUS Koch. 



124. Spinus tristis (L. ). American Goldfinch. 



My notes show this bird was seen all along the route from Sam- 

 burg up to about 3,500 feet on Roan Mountain. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



Genus PASSER Brisson. 



125. Passer domesticus (L. ). European House Sparrow. 

 Abounding in all larger towns and villages and their suburbs. 



Genus POOCJETES Baird. 



126. Poooaetes gramineus (Gmel. ). Vesper Sparrow. 



Not seen west of Johnson City, where I found it breeding, but not 

 abundantly. Fox notes it in April in Roane County but I did not 

 find it breeding there. 



Genus AMMODRAMUS Swainson. 



127. Ammodramus sandwichensis savanna (Wils. ). Savanna Sparrow. 

 Fox's record of this species in Roane County during March is the 



only one known to me. 



128. Ammodramus savannarum passerinus (Wils.). Grasshopper Sparrow. 

 Found at Samburg, Raleigh, Bellevue, Chattanooga, Knoxville, 



Greeneville and Johnson City; certainly resident at the five latter 

 places in summer. Not found by Langdon or myself in the Great 

 Smoky Range. 



129. Ammodramus henslowii ( And.). Henslow's Sparrow. 



Two specimens (March and April), taken in Roane County by 

 Fox. 



Genus CHONDESTES Swainson. 



130. *Chondestes grammacus (Say.). Lark Sparrow. 



A flock, probably migrant, was seen in a field near Samburg. 

 One of these was secured. A singing male gave me an unsuccessful 

 chase over the fields near Raleigh, and a pair, evidently mated, were 

 found near Bellevue, the male becoming a sacrifice to science. 



It appears to be rather rare in any part of the state. Other 

 observers do not list it. 



Genus ZONOTRICHIA Swainson. 



131. Zonotrichia leucophrys (Forst. ). White-crowned Sparrow. 

 Numerous at Samburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. At the latter 



place it was seen as late as May 22nd. 



132. Zonotrichia albicollis (Gmel.). White-throated Sparrow. 



Several seen at Samburg and Bellevue. Roane County, March 

 and April; Fox. Not known to breed. 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Genus SPIZELLA Bonaparte. 



133. Spizella socialis (Wils. ). Chipping Sparrow. 



With the exception of the summit of Roan Mountain, this bird 

 was always present in my rambles through Tennessee. Langdou 

 found it up to 4,000 feet in the mountains. 



134. Spizella pusilla (Wils.). Field Sparrow. 



The remarks for socialis equally apply to this species. 



Genus JUNCO Wagler. 



135. Junco hyemalis (L. ). Slate-colored Junco. 



The birds referred to by Fox, the last of which were seen April 

 16th, around Rockwood, have been identified with this migrant 

 northern form. 



136. *Junco hyemalis carolinensis (Brewst.). Carolina Junco. 

 Abundant on Roan Mountain in the fir belt. One heard singing 



in the upper deciduous belt at about 4,500 feet. Eleven speci- 

 mens, including four half-fledged young, were taken. 



Genus PEUCiEA Audubon. 



137. "Peuoaea aestivalis bachmani (Aud.). Bachman's Sparrow. 

 Breeding numerously on the plateau in the parts of Fentress, 



Scott and Morgan Counties traversed on the trip from Sunbright to 

 Allardt and returning to Rugby Road. Also noted near Sawyer's 

 Springs. Three specimens were taken at Allardt. Fox found it in 

 April in Roane County aud on Lookout Mountain. 



Genus MELOSPIZA Baird. 



138. Melospiza fasciata (Gmel.). Song Sparrow. 



The absence of this homelike bird from the woodlands and door- 

 yards of West and Middle Tennessee was not only a source of sur- 

 prise, but of much regret, to me. Never before had I traveled so long 

 out of sight and hearing of some representative of the Song Sparrow 

 in my North American wanderings. 



A few were seen at Johnson City. They became numerous at 

 Roan Mountain Station and were seen thence along the Doe River 

 to an elevation of 3, 500 feet. As a migrant, Fox notes them as 

 late as April 17th in Roane County, after which date they disap- 

 peared. 



139. Melospiza georgiana (Lath.). Swamp Sparrow. 



This bird escaped me, but is almost sure to be found breeding 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



along the foothills of the Great Smoky Range. It is included here 

 on the authority of Dr. Fox, who found it abundant in Roane 

 County during April. That it breeds there is doubtful. 

 110. *Melospiza lincolni (And.). Lincoln's Finch. 



This bird was migrating during my stay in West Tennessee. 

 Several were seen near Samburg and Raleigh. It was also observed 

 at Bellevue. A male shot at Raleigh was very fat. 



Genus PASSERELLA Swainson. 



141. Passerella iliaca (Merr.). Fox Sparrow. 



Not seen. Taken in spring migration in Roane County. ; Fox. 



Genus P1PIL0 Vieillot. 



142. Pipilo erythrophthalmus (L. ). Towhee. 



Not seen in West Tennessee; not common in the middle districts. 

 Records at Bellevue, Chattanooga, Harriman, Allardt, Knoxville, 

 Johnson City and Roan Mountain Station. Rare at latter station, 

 which is its highest limit in the mountains. Taken at Athens; com- 

 mon; Merriam; and at 2,000 feet in Chilhowee Mountains, Lang- 

 don. 



Genus CARDINALIS Bonaparte. 



143. Cardinalis cardinalis (L.). Cardinal. 



Very abundant everywhere, up to nearly 4,000 feet in the moun- 

 tains. 



Genus HABIA Reichenbach. 



144. Habia ludoviciana (L. ). Rose-breasted Grosbeak. 



Migrating at Samburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. Seen at Chatta- 

 nooga and Sawyer's Springs. Breeds at Johnson City and thence up 

 to the fir belt of Roan Mountain, 4,800 feet. 



It may be a rare breeder in the Cumberland Mountains, but I 

 have no proof of it. 



145. Passerina cyanea (L. ). Indigo Bunting. 



Very abundant over my entire route, and one of the few low- 

 land birds that breed at the summit of Roan Mountain. 



146. *Spiza americana (Gruel.). Dickcissel. 



Abundant in all cultivated uplands, from the Mississippi River to 

 the western escarpment of the Cumberland Plateau. Sparsely strag- 

 gling along the Tennessee Valley to Chattanooga, where one was 

 heard singing. Not seen at Knoxville. Four specimens taken. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Family TANAGRIDJE. 



Genus PIRANGA Vieillot, 



147. Piranga erythromelas (Vieill.). Scarlet Tanager. 



Over the entire State, and in the mountains up to 4,000 feet. 

 More abundant in East Tennessee. 



148. *Piranga rubra (L.). Summer Tanager. 



Noted at all visited localites, up to 2,500 feet. More abundant 

 in west and middle districts. 



Family HIRUNDINIDJE. 

 Genus PROGNE Boie. 



149. Progne subis (L.). Purple Martin. 



Numerous everywhere except on the mountains. Not seen at 

 Sawyer's Springs, but at Allardt I saw some. Not seen at Roan 

 Mountain Station. 



Genus PETROCHELIDON Cabanis. 



150. Petrochelidon lunifrons (Say). Cliff Swallow. 



Noted at Raleigh, Bellevue, Harriman and Johnson City. Not 

 elsewhere recorded nor by other observers. 



Genus CHELIDON Forster. 



151. Chelidon erythrogaster (Bodd. ). Barn Swallow. 



Not abundant. Seen at Raleigh, Bellevue, Chattanooga, Knox- 

 ville, Greeneville and Johnson City. Athens; Merriam. Rock- 

 wood; Fox. 



Genus TACHYCINETA Cabanis. 



152. Taohycineta bioolor (Vieill. ). White-bellied Swallow. 



Rarely seen in any numbers, but with much the same appar- 

 ent distribution as the preceding species. 



Genus CLIVICOLA Forster. 



153. Clivicola riparia fL.). Bank Swallow. 



Breeds abundantly along the Mississippi bluffs. Noted all across 

 the State, but at times, perhaps, confounded with the next species. 



Genus STELGIDOPTERYX Baird. 



154. Stelgidopteryx serripennis (Aud.). Rough-winged Swallow. 

 From Samburg to Johnson City. Abundant everywhere. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



Family AMPELIDJE. 

 Genus AMPKLIS Linnaeus. 



155. Apelis cedrorum ( Vieill. ). < 'edar Waxwing. 



Quite universal in its State distribution. I did not find it on the 

 summit, but far up Roan Mountain. Langdon took a young one as 

 high as 3,000 feet. 



Family LANIDJE. 

 Genus LANITJS Linnajus. 



156. Lanius ludovicianus (L. ). Loggerhead Shrike. 



Observed at Samburg and Raleigh, and breeding between the 



latter place and Memphis. Roane County, March 18th and 20th; 



Fox. 



Family VIREONIDvE. 



Genus VIREO Vieillot. 



157. Vireo olivaoeus (L. ). Red-eyed Vireo. 



Abounding in all localities visited, up to the fir-belt of Roan 

 Mountain. 



158. Vireo gilvus ( Vieill. J . Warbling Vireo. 



Several noted at all stops between Samburg and Johnson City, 

 inclusive. No other observer records them from Tennessee. 



159. Vireo flavifrons (Vieill. ). Yellow-throated Vireo. 



Same distribution as last. Pine Mountain at 1,500 feet; Langdon. 

 Abundant. 



160. Vireo solitarius (Wils. ). Blue-headed Vireo. 



Taken by Fox in Roane County (April 15th and 17th), during 

 migration. 



161. Vireo solitarius alticola (Brevvst.). Mountain Solitary Vireo. 



A few heard on Roan Mouutain, from just below fir belt down to 

 3,000 feet. Owing to their preference for the highest tree tops I 

 was unable to shoot any specimens with my caue-guu. 



Specimens taken by Langdon on Pine aud Defeat Mountains 

 were pronounced to be typical of this race by Mr. Brewster. 

 Lemoyne took specimens in Blount and Monroe Counties, which he 

 thinks referable to both forms. As he gives no date for the one 

 from Monroe County, which he calls solitarius, one may infer that it 

 was only a migrant. 



162. Vireo noveboraoensis ((irael. ). White-eyed Vireo. 



Seen at all points between Roan Mountain Station and Samburg, 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895 



inclusive. An abundant species everywhere. Chilhowee Moun- 

 tains; Laugdon. 



Family MNTOTILTIDJE. 

 Genus MNIOTILTA Vieillot. 



163. Mniotilta varia (L.). Black and White Warbler. 



An abundant summer resident, with the same distribution as the 

 White-eyed Vireo, but ranging higher on Roan Mountain, viz., up 

 to 3,500 feet. Chilhowee Mountains, 3,000 feet, Langdon. 



Genus PROTONOTARIA Baird. 



164. *Protonotaria oitrea (Bodd.). Protkonotary Warbler. 



Abounding in the Mississippi Bottoms and along the nearer tribu- 

 taries. Probably found nearly across west Tennessee. Breeding at 

 Hamburg, Memphis and Raleigh. Five specimens preserved and a 

 set of eggs. 



Genus HELINAIA Audubon. 



165. *Helinaia swainsonii (And.). Swainson's Warbler. 



Several heard and a few seen in the cane bottoms of Wolf River 

 near Raleigh, where it was breeding. Two males, after the most 

 persistent and tiresome stalking, were brought down. From the 

 nature of the swamps and bayous of the Tennessee River it may 

 be safely predicted that this bird will be found in nearly every 

 county between its western valley and the Mississippi. 



Genus HELMITHERUS Eafinesque. 



166. Helmitherus vermivorus (Gruel.). Worm-eating Warbler. 



Migrants noted at Samburg and Raleigh. Did not see it in the 

 east, but Langdon notes it in Blount County up to 4,000 feet, 

 breeding in the mountains. Fox's records for Roane County were 

 made during April. 



Genus HELMINTHOPHILA Ridgway. 



167. Helminthopkila pinus (L.). Blue-winged Warbler. 



I saw this bird at Raleigh and thence eastward across the State 

 to, and including, Knoxville. It was not abundant anywhere. 



168. Helmintbophila ckrysoptera (L. ). Golden -winged Warbler. 

 Breeding at Sawyer's Springs, Harriman and Allardt. Also 



noted at Knoxville. Not common. Monroe, Blount, Cooke and 

 Roane Counties; Lemoyne. 




1895.] NATUKAE SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



169. Helminthophila ruficapilla (VVils.). Nashville Warbler. 

 Alexander Wilson secured the types of this species near Nash- 

 ville. It was migrating at Samburg and Raleigh during my stay. 



170. Helminthophila peregriua (Wils.). Tennessee Warbler. 



Migrating through Samburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. Wilson's 

 types of this bird came from the hanks of the Cumberland River, 

 probably not far from Nashville. 



Genus COMPSOTHLYPIS Cabanis. 



171. Compsothlypis amerieana (L.). Parula Warbler. 



Breeding abundantly at every locality, except above 4,000 feet in 

 the mountains. 



Genus DENDROICA Gray. 



172. Dendroica eestiva (Gmel. ). Yellow Warbler. 



Not seen in west Tennessee; a few seen at Nashville. Numerous 

 in cast Tennessee up the mountains, to about 8,500 feet. On the 

 plateau- at Allardt. 



173. Dendroica caeruleseens (Gmel.). Black -throated Blue Warbler. 

 Common from 3,500 to 4,500 feet on Roan Mountain. Head of 



Little River, 4,000 feet, Langdon. Roane County, 4,300 feet(?); 

 May 16th, Lemoyne. 



174. Dendroica coronata (L.). Myrtle Warbler. 



Fox says this bird was common near the Tennessee River until 

 the last of April. 



175. *Dendroica maculosa (Gmel.). Magnolia Warbler. 



Seen migrating at Samburg and Raleigh, where one specimen 

 was shot. 



176. Dendroica cserulea (Wils.). Cerulean Warbler. 



Breeding at Samburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. Not certainly 

 identified elsewhere. Three specimens taken at Raleigh. Langdon 

 found them ''common" in spruce forests at the head of Little River, 

 4,000 feet. 



177. Dendroica pensylvanica (L.). Chestnut-sided Warbler. 



Breeding on Roan Mountain, 3,500 to 4,000 feet. From 2,000 

 to 2,500 feet " in oak woods ;" Langdon. 



178. Dendroica striata (Forst). Black-poll Warbler. 



An abundant migrant at Samburg and Raleigh and a few seen at 

 Bellevue. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



179. Dendroica blackbumiae (Gmel.). Blackburnian Warbler. 



Migrant at Samburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. Breeding on Roan 

 Mountain. Rockwood in April, Fox. Laugdon found it the "most 

 abundant speci.es of its family" between 2,000 to 4,000 feet in the 

 Chilhowee Mountains. One specimen at Raleigh. Walden's 

 Ridge, Roane County, 4,000 feet; breeding, Lemoyne. 



180. *Bendroica dominica albilora (Baird.) Sycamore Warbler. 



Records for Bellevue, Harritnan, Allardt, Kuoxville, Greeneville 

 and Johnson City. Two specimens taken. Breeding at all points 

 noted. Roane County; Fox. Athens; Merriam. 



181. Dendroioa virens (Gmel.). Black-throated Green Warbler. 



Found all across the State; but only as a migrant west of the 

 Cumberland Plateau. Breeding at Sawyer's Springs, Harriman, 

 Allardt, Kuoxville, Johnson City, and thence up Roan Moun- 

 tain to 3,000 feet or more. Spruce woods, 4,000 feet; Laugdon. 

 Lookout Mountain, Fox. 



182. Dendroica vigorosii (And.). Pine Warbler. 



Listed at Raleigh, Bellevue and Allardt. Fox found them in 

 full song March 28th, when they were "common" at Rockwood. 

 Pine Mountain, 1,500 feet, "one specimen only," Langdon. I did 

 not notice them on Roan Mountain. Not abundant anywhere. 



183. Dendroica discolor (VieilL). Prairie Warbler. 



Numerous in scrub openings at all points visited between Bellevue 

 and Kuoxville, inclusive. Two specimens taken. Rockwood, 

 "common" in April; Fox. Blount County; Lemoyne. 



Genus SEIUKUS Swainson. 



184. Seiurus aurocapillus (L.). Oven Bird. 



I did not find the Oven-bird until I reached Chattanooga. After 

 that it was always present, reaching all the way up to the edge of 

 the fir belt on Roan Mountain. Langdon confines it to altitudes 

 ranging from 1,000 to 2,000 feet. Fox found them in Roan 

 County as early as April 15th. 



185. *Seiurus motacilla (Vieill.). Louisiana Water Thrush. 



This bird is a cosmopolite summer resident in Tennessee. It is as 

 numerous in one locality as another, and reaches some distance 

 along the Doe River above Roan Mountain Station. It is barely 

 possible that the birds observed in that locality were S. novebor- 

 acensis. Langdon fails to record any, but Fox found them common. 




1 895. ]] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



Genus GEOTHLYPIS Cabanis. 



186. *Geothlypis formosa (Wils.). Kentucky Warbler. 



Abounding all across the State, from the Mississippi bhift to the 

 foothills of the Great Smoky Mountains. Not seen east of Johnson 

 City lmt numerous all over the Cumberland Plateau. Laugdon 

 did not set- ii. nor did Fox in 1885, though he records it "not 

 common" in L884. Nesting- in Blount County; June, 1881, and 

 seen in Monroe County; Lemoyne. 



187. Geothlypis Philadelphia (Wils. ). Mourning Warbler. 



Migrating at Sam burg, Raleigh and Bellevue. Heard one sing- 

 ing at latter place. 



188. Geothlypis trichas (L.). Maryland Yellow Throat. 



Below an altitude of 3,000 feet this familiar warbler abounds 

 throughout the State. Ridgway shows that the Mississippi Valley 

 birds are intermediate. Those from the Memphis bottoms may be 

 found to be closer to ocddentalis than to our eastern bird. 



Genus ICTERIA Vieillot. 



189. Icteria virens (L.). Yellow-breasted Chat. 



'An abundant summer resident at all points along route as far 

 east as Johnson City. Langdon took one at the " base of Mount 

 Nebo." 



Genus SYLVANIA Nuttall. 



190. *Sylvania mitrata (Gruel.). Hooded Warbler. 



This is the most thoroughly representative and evenly distributed 

 summer warbler of Tennessee; as much at home among the cane 

 brakes and bayous of the Mississippi as in the dark, cool ravines of 

 the Great Smoky Mountains. It ranges up to the fir belt on Roan 

 Mountain; '• 4,000 feet," Langdon. Great Smoky Mountain and 

 Monroe County, 2,500 to 4,5000 feet; Lemoyne. 



191. ®Sylvania pusilla (Wils.). Wilson's Warbler. 



Migrating at Raleigh and Bellevue. One specimen collected at 

 latter place. 



192. Sylvania canadensis (L.). Canadian Warbler. 



Migrant at Samburg and Raleigh. Breeding on Roan Mountain, 

 3,000 to 4,000 feet. Blount County, 2,000 feet; Langdon. Mon- 

 roe County, 2,500 to 4,000 feet; Lemoyne. 




» 



498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Genus SETOPHAGA Swainson. 



193. Setophaga ruticilla (L.). American Redstart. 



In favorable localities throughout the entire route from Samburg 

 to Johnson City and Roan Mountain Station. That its breeds at 

 Samburg and Raleigh is not yet proven. Langdon found it up to 

 2,500 feet. 



Family MOTACILLIDJE. 



194. Anthus pennsilvanicus (Lath.). American Pipit. 



Recorded in spring (March) by Fox, who found it common in 

 meadows during the last two weeks of that month. I thought J 

 heard a flock passing over Samburg. 



Family TROGLODYTIDjE. 



Genus MIMUS Boie. 



195. Mimus polyglottos (L.). Mocking Bird. 



Rather rare at Samburg, Raleigh, and Bellevue. Reported from 

 Chattanooga. A farmer from Harriman stated they were occasion- 

 ally heard there. Fox saw one near Rockwood April 6, 1885. I 

 could get no information of them on the Cumberland tableland. Jt 

 is a favorite and common cagebird all over Tennessee and this per- 

 haps, accounts for its rarity in a wild state at the present day. 



Genus GALEOSCOPTES Cabanis. 



196. Galeoscoptes carolinensis (L.). Catbird. 



The only "thrush" which I found in every place on the entire 

 route. A pair were breeding near a little spring at the summit of 

 Roan Mountain and their mewing could often be heard from the 

 porch of Cloudland hotel. Langdon limits their wanderings in the 

 Chilhowee range to 2,000 feet. 



Genus HARPORHYNCHUS Cabanis. 



197. Harporhynohus rufus (L.). Brown Thrasber. 



The Thrasher is not far behind the Cat Bird in its general distri- 

 bution over the State, but it is less numerous and I did not see any 

 above 3,000 feet on Roan Mountain. 



Genus THRYOTHORUS Vieillot. 



198. Thryothorus ludovicianus (Lath.). Carolina Wren. 



Very abundant everywhere except in the loftier reaches of the 

 mountains above 3,500 to 4,000 feet. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



199. Thryothorus bewiokii (Aud.). Bewick's Wren. 



Rather local, but found in every county visited. A iar more 

 entertaining singer and every way more of a genius than the House 

 Wren, which it replaces in Tennessee. 



I heard the song of this bird in a "deadening " 4,000 feet up the 

 side of Roan Mountain. 



Genus TROGLODYTES Vieillot. 



200. Troglodytes hiemalis (Vieill.). Winter Wren. 



A few heard in the fir belt of Roan Mountain; but none below it. 

 It is rare even thei-e. Langdon missed it altogether. Fox notes it 

 in the Tennessee valley as late as April 13th. It is quite possible 

 that the Roan Mountain birds will be found to represent a distinct 

 race, more nearly approaching padficus than hiemalis. No speci- 

 mens have yet been taken in these regions. 



Family CERTHHIXaE. 

 Genus CERTHIA Linnseus. 



201. Certhia familiaris araericana (Bonap.). Brown Creeper. 



A few were breeding on the summit of Roan Mountain. Seen in 

 migration by Fox, in Roane County. Smoky Mountains in summer, 

 in the valleys in winter; Lemoyne. 



Family PARID^l. 

 Genus SITTA Linnaeus. 



202. Sitta oarolinensis (Lath.). White-breasted Nuthatch. 



Sparingly distributed over the State. None seen on Roan Moun- 

 tain above the deciduous timber. 



203. Sitta canadensis (L. ). Red-breasted Nuthatch. 



One specimen was taken in the fir belt of Roan Mountain, to 

 which the birds seemed to be confined, one being heard near the 

 hotel at Cloudland. Lookout Mountain, March 29th, Fox. 



Genus PARUS Linnseus. 



204. Parus bicolor (L.). Tufted Titmouse. 



Everywhere abundant. Ranging as high as 4,000 feet on Roan 

 Mountain. 



205. Parus atricapillus (L.). Chickadee. 



No Chickadees were seen in the balsam belt of Roan Mountain. 

 Langdon found no specimens of this form among the mountain tit- 

 34 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



mice of Blount County. Lemoyne records specimens from Blount 

 County and Great Smoky Mountain and agrees with Brewster as to 

 the difference in song, etc., between specimens above and below 4,000 

 feet on these mountains. 



206. Parus atricapillus oarolinensis (Aud.). Carolina Chickadee. 

 Specimens from Sawyer's Springs and Raleigh are referable to 



the southern form. I found Chickadees abundant all over the 

 Tennessee lowlands and up Roan Mountain to the evergreen 

 belt. I fail to appreciate the specific distinctions accorded to the 

 southern as contrasted with the northern Chickadee, living as I do in 

 a region where apparent intermediates of the two are found through- 

 out the year. Lemoyne records earolinensis from the valleys up to 

 4,000 feet in the Smoky Mountains of Monroe, Blount and 



Sevier Counties. 



Genus REGULUS Cuvier. 



207. Regulus satrapa (Licht.). Golden-crowned Kinglet, 



The only record known to me is that of Fox, who found them 

 in early spring in Roane County. It is rather surprising that 

 neither Laugdon nor myself observed them in the Smoky Moun- 

 tains, for Brewster found them abundant in the Black Moun- 

 tains of North Carolina. 



208. Regulus calendula (L.). Ruby-crowned Kinglet. 



Fox lists this bird as a migrant in Roane County. It was mi- 

 grating through Samburg during my stay. 



Genus POLIOPTILA Sclater. 



209. Polioptila caerulea (L.). Blue-gray Gnatcatcher. 



Breeds all across the State and in the mountains, up to 3,500 feet. 



Family TURDIDJE. 

 Genus TURDUS Linnaeus. 



210. Turdus mustelinus (Gmel.). Wood Thrush. 



Noted at Samburg, Raleigh, Bellevue, Chattanooga, Harriman, 

 Knoxville and Johnson City. Not on the Cumberland table land. 

 Specimens taken by Langdon in Blount County, at 2,000 and 4,000 

 feet. 



211. Turdus fusoescens (Steph.). Wilson's Thrush. 



Numerous in migrations at Samburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. 

 Breeding at Chattanooga (?) and on Roan Mountain, where it was 




1895.] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



abundant from 3, 000 to 5, 000 feet. I watched a pair building in 

 a maple on a large horizontal branch nearly forty feet from the 

 ground; an unusual position for the nest of this bird. 



212. Turdus ustulatus swainsonii (Cab.). Olive-backed Thrush. 



Migrant at Samburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. Fox saw one April 

 26th, 1885, in Roane County. 



213. Turdus aonalaschkae pallasii (Cab.). Hermit Thrush. 



Seen at Samburg. Fox found it an abundant migrant in Roane 

 County. 



Genus MERTJLA Leach. 



214. Merula migratoria (L.). American Robin. 



A rare bird in west and middle Tennessee. None seen in the 

 Central Basin. Not abundant in east Tennessee, where it is found 

 from the western rim of the Cumberland Mountains to the top of 

 the Great Smoky range. It was breeding and singing in the bal- 

 sams near Cloudland Hotel. Langdon did not find it in the 

 Chilhowee Range. 



Genus SI ALIA Swainson. 



215. Sialia sialis (L.). Bluebird. 



In many parts of "west and middle Tennessee the Bluebird was 

 frequently seen. I have records of it from every place visited up 

 to 4;000 feet on Roan Mountain. Fox found them very common 

 in early spring. Langdon notes a few " about deadenings in the 

 coves" of Blount County. 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



LIST OF BIRDS COLLECTED IN NORTH GREENLAND BY THE PEARY 



EXPEDITION OF 1891-2 AND THE RELIEF 



EXPEDITION OF 1892. 



BY WITMER STONE. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia for 1892, p. 145, I published an annotated list of the birds 

 collected by the West Greenland Expedition which accompanied 

 Lieut. R. E. Peary to Whale Sound in 1891. 



Below will be found lists of the species obtained by tbe Pearv 

 party during their sojourn in North Greenland from July, 1891, to 

 August, 1892, and also of those collected by the Relief Expedition 

 of 1892. 



The former collection was made almost entirely by Mr. Langdon 

 Gibson in the vicinity of the Peary winter quarters 1 and the latter 

 by Mr. Charles E. Hite at about the same points visited by the 

 Expedition of 1891. All the specimens, numbering 122, are in the 

 collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 2 



The second Peary Expedition and the Relief Expedition of 1894, 

 so far as I am aware, made no collection of birds. 



Gibson Collection. 



1. Urinator lumme (Gunn.). Red-throated Loon. 

 One set of eggs collected on Whale Sound. 



2. Cepphus mandtii (Licht.). Mandt's Guillemot. 



3. Alle alle (Linn.). Little Auk. 

 A number of eggs were in the collection. 



4. Stercorarius parasiticus (Linn.). Parasitic Jaeger. 

 Specimens obtained at Red-cliff House, the headquarters of* the 



Expedition, and in Tuctoo Valley, representing both the dark and 

 light phases of plumage. 



1 SeeProc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1892, p. 342. 



% This paper has been delayed in the hope of obtaining field notes from some 

 of the members of the expedition, but failing in this I have thought best to pub- 

 lish it as it is. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 603 



5. Stercorarius longicaudus Vieill. Long-tailed Jaeger. 

 Obtained in Tuctoo Valley. 



6. Gavia alba (Gunn. ). Ivory Gull. 



One obtained on McCormick Bay, July 17, 1892. 



7. Rissa tridactyla (Linn.). Kittiwake. 

 One specimen in the collection. 



8. Larus glaucus Briinn. Glaucous Gull. 

 One taken at McCormick Bay, July 17, 1892. 



9. Clangula hyemalis (Linn. ). Old-squaw. 



Males and females in perfect breeding plumage obtained in Tuctoo 

 and Glacier Valleys, June 16-21, 1892. 



10. Somateria mollissima borealis Brehm. Greenland Eider. 

 One set of eggs collected June 30, on Whale Sound and several 



birds secured. 



11. Somateria spectabilis (Linn.). King Eider. 



Found breeding in Tuctoo Valley, June 9, 1892, and birds were 

 obtained in the same locality as late as July 24. 



1 2. Chen hyperboreus nivalis (Forst. ) Greater Snow Goose. 

 One adult female in worn plumage and one young gosling entirely 



in down were secured on July 10, 1892, in Glacier Valley. So far 

 as I am aware this capture furnishes the first information that we 

 have regarding the breeding ground of this bird. 



13. Tringa canutus Linn. Knot. 



A series of specimens of the Knot were obtained in Tuctoo Valley, 

 June 22 to July 22, 1892, and Aug. 23, 1891. Most of these are in 

 breeding plumage and have lost entirely the gray borders to the 

 feathers of the back. 



One young bird was obtained which is still in the down but has 

 the wings about half grown and the regular feathers appearing on 

 the breast and back. 



14. Calidris arenaria (Linn. ). Sanderling. 



One specimen was secured in Glacier Valley, June 14, in full 

 breeding dress. 



15. Arenaria interpres (Linn.). Turnstone. 



Two specimens were taken July 21 and 26, 1892, in Tuctoo 

 Valley. 



16. Lagopus rupestris reinhardti (Brehm). Reinhardt's 

 Ptarmigan. 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



One specimen taken in Inglefield Gulf, April 21, 1892, was still 

 in the pure white plumage. 



17. Falco islandus Bruun. White Gyr falcon. 

 One obtained on McCormick Bay. 



18. Corvus corax principalis Ridgw. Northern Raven. 

 One specimen without data. 



19. Plectrophenax nivalis (Linn.). Snow Bunting. 

 Several nests taken in Tuctoo Valley, June 19 and 21, each con- 

 taining five eggs, and one, June 21, containing seven. 



Collection of the Relief Expedition. 



1. Fratercula arctica (Linn.). Puffin. 



Two puffins were secured at Godhavn, which I refer to this form. 

 The bills measure: 



No. Length of culmen. Depth at base. 



30.076 1.85 in. 1.45 in. 



30.077 2.05 in. 1.60 in. 



2. Cepphus mandtii (Licht.). Mandt's Guillemot. 



All the specimens obtained at Nattik and in McCormick Bay 

 were of this species. None of C. grylle being found. 



3. Uria lomvia (Linn.). Briinnich's Murre. 



Specimens secured in McCormick Bay, July 22 and August 23. 



4. Alle alle (Linn.). Little Auk. 



A number secured at Cape York, July 22. 



5. Stercorarius parasiticus (Linn.). Parasitic Jaeger. 

 Two Jaegers, the only ones obtained by the Relief Expedition 



(McCormick Bay, Aug. 4, and Port Robinson Aug. 1), were clearly 

 referable to this species while curiously enough all but one of a con- 

 siderable series obtained by the West Greenland Expedition were S. 

 longicaudus. 



6. Rissa tridactyla (Linn. ) Kittiwake. 



One taken at Cape York, July 22, and another at Disko, Aug. 

 30. The latter specimen is remarkably dark in color, the whole 

 lower surface being suffused with pearl gray. 



7. Larus glaucus Briinn. Glaucous Gull. 



A number of specimens collected at Duck Island, Littleton Island, 

 Cape York and Itiblu. 



8. Larus marinus Linn. Black-backed Gull. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



One immature specimen secured Sep. 3, 1892, at Gothaub. 



9. Sterna paradisjea Briinn. Arctic Tern. 

 Several secured in McCormick Bay, August 1-4. 



10. Somateria mollissima borealis Brehm. Greenland 

 Eider. 



A large series of females is in the collection from Duck Island. 



11. Tringa maritima Briinn. Purple Sandpiper. 

 Two secured at Disko, July 16. 



12. iEoiALiTis hiaticula (Linn.). Ring Plover. 

 One from McCormick Bay, Aug. 4. 



13. Lagopus rupestris reinhardti (Brehm). Reinhardt's 

 Ptarmigan. 



Obtained at Disko, July 16. 



14. Falco islandus Briinn. White Gyr falcon. 

 Two specimens obtained from natives. 



15. Falco rusticolus Linn. Gray Gyr falcon. 



One specimen obtained from natives. The one secured by the 

 West Greenland Expedition in 1891 was accidentally referred to F. 

 r. gyrfalco in my paper. 



16. Corvus corax principalis Ridgw. Northern Raven. 

 A fine specimen shot on McCormick Bay, Aug. 4. 



17. Plectrophenax nivalis (Linn.). Snow Bunting. 

 A number collected at Disko, July 16. 



18. Calcarius lapponicus (Linn.). Lapland Longspur. 

 Several specimens taken with the above. 



19. Saxicola cenanthe (Linn.). Wheatear. 

 One taken at Disko, July 16. 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



ARCHAEOLOGICAL WORK IN OHIO. 



By Gerard Fowke. 

 Excavation of a Mound in Pike County, Ohio. 1 



On the farm of W. M. Volgainore, three and one half miles south 

 of Piketon, is the largest mound in the Scioto Valley between Chilli- 

 cothe and the Ohio River except one four miles south of the "High 

 Banks" in Ross County. It stands on the third of four terraces 

 bordering the river here, the first being regularly and the second 

 occasionally overflowed. A mile below are two earthen enclosures, 

 one square the other circular, each containing between fifteen and 

 twenty acres and connected by parallel walls. Many other remains 

 exist in the county, notably the much-mentioned "Graded Way," 

 which, however, is mostly a natural formation. 



The mound has an elliptical base 130 x 110 feet, the longer axis 

 north and south, and its altitude while intact was fully 18 feet. In 

 1894 the owner scraped off the upper portion, leaving it a truncated 

 cone whose top was about seven feet above the surrounding level. 

 He also scraped a narrow trench across the middle to within three 

 feet of the bottom. At this depth he reports finding two skeletons 

 with some shell beads and two copper bracelets. He went no farther 

 but replaced such bones as he saw and filled the trench from the side. 

 The outline of the mound being destroyed by this work, it was difficult 

 to judge where the axes would intersect; a point was chosen (it may 

 have been several feet out of the way) as nearly over the middle of 

 the base as could be determined, and from this as a center a circle 

 was described with a diameter of forty feet. All the earth within 

 this limit to the original surface was then removed, which was found 

 at a depth of between eight and nine feet. The difference between this 

 measure and that of the height of the mound from the outside, is due 



1 During the past summer and autumn (1895) investigations have been carried 

 on in certain Ohio mounds by Mr. Gerard Fowke in behalf of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. This report and the succeeding ones give the 

 results of his investigations. All objects obtained by Mr. Fowke are now in the 

 archaeological collections of the Academy. 



Clarence B. Moore. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



partly to compression of the earth by the weight of the structure, and 

 partly to the increase and looseness, from cultivation, of soil in the field. 



The mound presented no peculiarity of construction; its. erection 

 had been practically continuous, at least to the height at which 

 this excavation began, for there was neither line of demarcation in 

 the small masses of dumped earth composing it, nor any trace of 

 vegetable growth such as would take place if the work were inter- 

 rupted. Several sorts of earth entered into its composition, mostly 

 like that immediately around, though it contained some that is not to 

 be found, superficially, nearer than 300 or 400 yards away ; such 

 may, however, occur closer at hand beneath the surface. A small 

 part of it was gathered where leaves or grass had recently been 

 burned off. 



The bones mentioned by the owner were found at the depth he 

 indicated; and other fragments were found below them as far as to 

 the bottom of the mound, scattered through earth that plainly had 

 been disturbed since first deposited. The men who did the scraping, 

 however, insist they did not go so deep, neither was any digging done 

 in the trench they made; if this be true, these lower bones must have 

 been thrown promiscuously, mingled with earth, into a hole dug by 

 the builders of the mound when it had reached a height of three or 

 four feet. 



Nineteen feet north of assumed center the skeleton of a young 

 child was found eighteen inches above the original surface. An 

 excavation measuring six feet east and west, by four feet north and 

 south, had been made when the mound, or this portion of it was less 

 than three feet high, and lined with a thin layer of bark or wood 

 which extended beyond it on every side ; the bottom was quite 

 irregular except in the north-west corner where a space had been 

 leveled barely large enough to afford a resting place for the body, 

 which lay extended on the back with head to the east. With the 

 bones of the neck were 65 copper beads; these had been strung on 

 vegetable fiber, along with small disk shell beads, the latter too soft 

 for recovery. On the right wrist were two small copper bracelets. 



Nothing else was found above the natural surface. Below the top 



soil is black loam a foot deep, resting on a stratum of hard, gravelly 



red earth two feet thick, below which is the gray sand whose bottom 



has never been found. This definite arrangement made it easy to 



ascertain the aims and methods of the builders. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The burials within the mound were only incidental, and had no 

 part in the original purpose for which it was erected. It had been 

 designed' to cover only two graves. The first of these had its axis 

 almost coincident with a radius extending nearly northeast from the 

 center stake. At eight feet to each side of this line began a thin 

 seam of decayed wood which sloped uniformly toward the axis till it 

 reached a depth of two feet at four and one-half feet from its place 

 of beginning; the earth below it had never been disturbed, while 

 that above it had been dumped in to restore the level. At this dis- 

 tance it came to the edge of a pit seven feet in width dug one foot 

 into the gray sand, with walls vertical or in some places slightly 

 overhanging on account of the caving-in of the loose material while 

 the work was progressing. In the bottom of the hole (four feet 

 deep) had been placed two to three inches of the red gravel earth, 

 on which lay three to four inches of gray sand, thus reversing their 

 proper order; above this came the seam of decayed wood extending 

 entirely across the excavated space to the natural surface, as men- 

 tioned above; next in order was a thin layer of burned earth, ashes, 

 and charcoal reaching from the shoulders to the knees, and slightly 

 beyond the frame on each side of a skeleton nearly six feet long, 

 which lay extended on the back, with feet toward the center of the 

 mound. On each wrist were two small copper bracelets; about the 

 waist, as if belonging to a belt, was nearly a pint of disk shell beads, 

 some of them being too soft to save; between the femurs were a few 

 Marginellas ; about the neck were eleven cylindrical or barrel-shaped 

 beads made of some thick shell and drilled lengthwise; under the 

 feet was a knife or spear, three inches long, of Basanite. Some por- 

 tions of the bones were quite hard and solid; others soft from decay. 

 The skull, 21 feet from the center stake, lay in a mass of very wet 

 decayed wood and ashes, and was in fragments; the crown was 

 stained a bright red, probably with Hematite. 



The confused and irregular layers and streaks of decayed wood in 

 the dark soil with which the grave was filled were perplexing; but 

 it appeared that the body had been protected by a layer of wood 

 supported by chunks and by poles whose ends were thrust into the 

 sand on either side. Earth was thrown on this covering to the original 

 level of the soil; saplings or small poles were then laid around the 

 margin of the grave to uphold a roof of wood or bark. After this 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



was partly decayed, it was covered with a small heap of dark earth 

 immediately preliminary to beginning the monnd. 



Each end of the grave was followed to the red gravel, found at 

 two feet from the head and the same distance from the feet of the 

 skeleton. It could not be ascertained whether the same slope con- 

 tinued outward from these points as from the sides ; for the eastern 

 end was three feet beyond the bank surrounding the area being ex- 

 amined, making it dangerous to follow farther; while at the other 

 end nothing could be made out with certainty, as other operations, 

 carried on about the same time, had encroached on this space. 



Figure 1 shows a cross-section; and Figure 2 a longitudinal sec- 

 tion of so much as was definitely outlined. 



d 



( F"- ::fe ^ 



Fig. 1. Cross section, nrst grave. Volganiore mound. 



ZZZZT 



fete 



e--' 

 Fig. 2. Longitudinal section, first grave. Volgamore mound. 



a. Black soil, 1 foot. 



b. Red gravel, 2 feet. 



c. Gray sand, bottomless. 



d. Mixed earth filling grave and continous with that of the mound above. 



e. Ashes; charcoal, and burned earth. 1 inch thick. 



f. Skeleton. 



g. Red gravel, 2 to 3 inches thick (deposited). 

 h. Gray sand, 3 to 4 inches thick (deposited). 



.... (Dotted lines.) Decayed wood and bark, varying in thickness from a 



streak to 6 inches. 

 Zig-zag line in Fig. 2 denotes limit of certainty regarding structure. 

 Scale : one-ninth of one inch equals one foot. 



The second grave was by far the largest that has been recorded in 

 this region. Its dip began on the south side at the margin of the 

 forty -foot circle cleared out; on the north side, a foot south and two 

 feet west of the assumed center mark of the tumulus. The outline 

 was tortuous, but could easily be traced by the decayed wood which 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



had lined it, or by the difference in color and consistency of the 

 earth on either side. When fully exposed, by removal of the top 

 soil around it, it formed an irregular ellipse with a narrow prolonga- 

 tion toward the east. Its entire length was 27 feet on a line almost 

 exactly east and west; its maximum breadth nineteen feet. On the 

 east, north, and south sides, the dip was gradual as in the first grave; 

 but on the west side it was abrupt the entire depth. From near the 

 top of the red gravel, except at the east end where a more gradual 

 slope was left to facilitate the passage of the aboriginal undertakers, 

 the walls were carried directly downward four feet into the gray 

 sand, forming a pit, measuring on the bottom, sixteen feet from east 

 to west, ten feet from north to south, and seven feet deep from the 

 surface. In this, midway between the sides but a little nearer the 

 western end, lay a skeleton about six feet long, extended on the 

 back, head east, arms by the sides, left hand under the hip. The 

 skull was broken by pressure of the earth. About the neck were a 

 few disk beads, and just above the knees a few Marginellas, all very 

 soft. On each forearm were three copper bracelets, one large and 

 two small. One of the larger was so corroded as to fall in two; it 

 was not made of a solid rod, as is usual, but of sheet copper rolled 

 into a cylinder and bent to the desired form. [See note.] 



There was no trace of cloth or skins, except adherent to the 

 bracelets, unless the soft, loose, black earth about the bones was due 

 to decay of such material. A thin seam of bark above the body 

 reached a little to each side, but none had been placed beneath it. 

 The wood found about the outer part of the excavation did not 

 extend down the sides into it ; small disconnected patches were seen 

 at a few places in the earth filling the grave, but if it had ever been 

 continuous at any level no evidence of such fact now remained. 



A longitudinal section is given in Fig. 3, and cross sections, at 

 intervals of five feet, in Figs. 4-8. 



-& *'-J 



Fig. 3. Horizontal section of large grave in Volgamore Mound. 




1895.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



511 



i : 5. 



d 



Fit*. I). 



Fig. 7. 



Fig. 8. 



Figs. 4-8. Cross sections at intervals of five feet. Large grave. Volgamore 

 Mound. One-ninth of one inch equals one foot. 



a. Black soil, 1 foot. 



b. Red gravel, 2 feet. 



c. Gray sand, bottomless. 



d. " Dumped "earth, continuous to top of mound. 

 /, i. Mingled red and gray, " dumped." 



k. Head of skeleton. 



o. Legs of skeleton. 



( Dotted line) Decayed wood or bark. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Note. — During extended researches in the Florida mounds a considerable col- 

 lection of objects of copper, almost exclusively ornaments, has been gathered. 



These ornaments, with the exception of several heavy 

 beads , are of thin sheet copper. The only other obj ects 

 of copper not purely ornamental are piercing imple- 

 ments, sometimes pointed at both ends, and these a 

 careful examination shows usually to be made of 

 sheet copper hammered around and around on 

 itself. It is interesting to note that in Ohio, a region 

 where objects of solid copper are of not infrequent 

 Fig. 9. Section of copper occurrence, a use of sheet copper similar to that seen 

 bracelet. (Twiceactual in Florida is observed. 



Slze '' A number of the bracelets found by Mr. Fowke, 



by their weight, lighter than their size would indi- 

 cate, seem to be of sheet copper. Fig. 9 gives a section of the bracelet, once 

 enlarged. 



C. B. M. 



The Caldwell Mound. 



Where the Scioto River passes from Pike in Scioto county the 

 terraces bordering it are reduced to two ; the first is subject to over- 

 flow, while the second marks the highest level at which drift was 

 deposited in this vicinity. A few hundred feet south of the county 

 line, sixteen miles from the Ohio River, on the farm of Mr. S. A. 

 Caldwell, a mound nine feet high and seventy-five feet in diameter 

 at the base stood on the brink of the higher terrace ; in the same 

 field are two smaller mounds; and skeletons with pottery and other 

 relics have been found near the surface in excavating for gravel 

 along the slope. 



On the larger mound a circle forty feet in diameter was laid off, 

 with the apex as a center, and all within this limit removed to the 

 undisturbed earth beneath. The structure was composed entirely of 

 the clayey soil and clay subsoil which here overlie the gray gravel ; 

 it was quite dry and packed so hard that the entire mass had to be 

 loosened with picks. Roughly- finished arrow-heads, flint chips, and 

 a few fragments of pottery, the latter of clay and coarsely-pounded 

 stone, were scattered promiscuously through it. Near the outer wall 

 of the excavated area on the east and south sides were several root 

 holes, denoting that small trees, three to six inches in diameter, had 

 been burned or cut off before the mound was begun. These were 

 not post-holes, like those to be described, for they went much deeper 

 and turned aside at or near the lowest point to which they could be 

 followed. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF" PHILADELPHIA. 513 



Traces or fragments of human remains were found in six places. 

 At one foot above the bottom, four feet south, and two feet west of 

 the center, was a skull, the bones belonging with it extending south- 

 ward. At the same level, five feet south, eight feet west of center 

 was a skull stained with hematite; there were also traces of bone six 

 inches above the last. At three and one-half feet above the bottom, 

 ten feet east of the center, was a skull which seemed to have been 

 placed with the face uppermost; three feet west of it, and six inches 

 higher, with no trace of other bones in the intervening space, was a 

 pelvis with leg bones extending southward from it but not parallel ; 

 immediately beneath, was a dark line extending entirely across the 

 mound, showing that the work had been stopped for a time at this 

 height ; the body or skeleton had been laid on what was then the top 

 of the mound, covered with bark on which was thrown a foot of 

 earth running to a feather-edge a foot west of center. After this, 

 another interval in the labor followed, as shown by a similar line. 

 A body had then been laid on the summit, with the head six and 

 one-half feet east of the center, the feet toward the west. On the 

 skull were several pieces of mica, some of them trimmed to a cres- 

 centic outline, and a small, very smooth, sandstone ornament re- 

 sembling a fiddle bridge in shape. The last skull discovered was 

 six feet above the bottom, eight feet south of the center ; it, also, had 

 mica lying on it, some cut like that above mentioned. All the bones 

 found were so soft as to fall to pieces on exposure ; and most of them 

 were so decayed that they could be traced only as a streak or thin 

 layer by their color. 



W hen the bottom was reached, the result was disappointing ; there 

 was no trace of a grave or other form of burial in or on the soil. A 

 line of soft earth which appeared to form the edge of an excavation, 

 proved to be only a narrow trench 8 to 12 inches wide at the top, 

 somewhat narrower at the bottom, and not more than a foot deep, 

 surrounding an irregular quadrilateral space about twenty feet 

 across. A considerable part of the undisturbed surface now exposed 

 was covered with a layer of ashes and charcoal, containing many 

 small fragments of burned animal bone, but no pottery fragments or 

 other art products. It varied from a thin streak to a layer of 3 or 

 4 inches; where it was heaviest the earth beneath was considerably 

 burned. Many post-holes were found, some five or six inches in 

 diameter and about two feet deep, others a foot in either dimension ; 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



the parts were burned prior to the depositing of at least some of the 

 ashes, for the latter extended in an unbroken layer over the holes, 

 except in three or four places where the posts were left projecting 

 somewhat above the surface, as shown by the hollow molds in the 

 body of the mound which had packed around them before their de- 

 cay. These molds were lined with the charcoal from the burned 

 stumps. The trench had been dug through the ashes, except where 

 it extended beyond them on the west side; but their straight margin 

 here as contrasted with the curved outline in other parts, and the 

 abrupt change of direction at the northwest corner, indicate that 

 they had been swept or scraped away on this side before the digging 

 began. 



In a mass of ashes about four inches thick, four to six feet east of 

 the center, were many small fragments of bones of a child, burned 

 until nearly destroyed; nine feet south, three feet east of the center 

 were a few fragments of bones of an adult, similarly burned. Both 

 deposits were lying on the natural surface in the bed of ashes. 



No explanation or interpretation of these facts will be attempted; 

 the reader must form his own conclusions. There may have been 

 some sort of a building of which the posts formed a part; but they 

 do not seem well arranged for such purpose, and no others exist 

 within the excavated space, for every foot of it was carefully ex- 

 amined. The ash-bed, if the fact of a house be admitted, may be 

 due to ordinary domestic life; but this would not account for the 

 cremated human bones. Nor could the latter be so thoroughly 

 charred unless intentionally burned, for, although they were in a 

 mass of ashes, there was no indication of any considerable amount of 

 heat about where they were found. 



To repeat : — The posts were burned off, as is proven by the char- 

 coal found in the holes where they stood, and especially in the casts 

 above the ashes; the latter were deposited, at least in part, after such 

 burning as is shown by their continuity above the holes; and the 

 trench was dug still later, because the ashes came up to its margin 

 on both sides and stopped there, and in two or three places the yellow 

 earth from its bottom lay directly upon them. Further, only a short 

 period'of time was embraced in these stages, for the projecting ends 

 of the posts were still solid enough when the mound was built for 

 the earth deposited over and around them to pack so firmly that it 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES <>K PHILADELPHIA. 515 



held its shape after they had disappeared. Finally, the construction 

 of the mound was intermittent. 



Excavation of a Low Mound in Pike County. 



A mile north of Wakefield, in Pike County, on the Barnes farm, 

 are the enclosures figured by Squier and Davis as the "works in Seal 

 Township." Near the south-east corner of the square enclosure is a 

 mound, now about three feet high and sixty feet in diameter, sur- 

 rounded by a ditch and embankment. A circle 25 feet across was 

 laid off on the highest part of this and the earth removed to the sub- 

 soil. 



About eight feet northwest of the center, and 16 inches above the 

 original surface were two or three fragments of human skull ; and 

 between three and four feet south of them portions of human femora; 

 these probably were the remains of a body that had been laid 

 extended with head to the north. No other human remains were 

 found in the structure. 



Eleven feet south of the center were several small pieces of mica, 

 some of them fragments of trimmed and perforated pieces, others 

 rough flakes split off from a larger piece; on them lay nine flint 

 blocks or cores, evidently raw material for implements; these were 

 partially covered with a large sheet of mica ; one of the blocks was 

 chipped into a rude hatchet-form. A foot east of these were two 

 gorgets; one was of close-grained slate, well made, with a single per- 

 foration; the other of micaceous sandstone with two perforations. 

 Three feet east of these was a deposit containing a finely wrought 

 flint knife, a rough and a broken arrow-head, a flint block like those 

 first found, and a sheet of mica. These were all at the same level 

 as the human bones found on the opposite side of the mound ; but 

 there was no evidence of a burial at the place they occurred. The 

 flint blocks were irregular fragments of larger nodules, with a chalky 

 exterior, a coating of silicate of lime, and the concretionary structure 

 well marked in some. No flint of this character has ever been found • 

 m place in Ohio; a similar stone occurs abundantly near the Wyan- 

 dotte Cave in southern Indiana, but is not known to exist at a nearer 

 point. 



35 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



November 5. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Thirty- two persons present. 



The death of Charles M. Thomas, M. D., a memher, was an- 

 nounced. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon made an announcement of the curative effect 

 of the subcutaneous injection of a saturated solution of taurin in an 

 aggravated case of Acne pustulosa. (No abstract). 



November 12. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



November 19. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Ninety-three persons present. 



A paper entitled "The Bees of the Genus Perdita F. Smith," by 

 T. D. A. Cockerell, was presented for publication. 



November 26. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled "Contributions to the Flora of Greenland, " by 

 Theo. Holm, was presented for publication. 



Prof. Angelo Heilpriu having resigned the Professorship of In- 

 vertebrate Paleontology was elected Professor of Geology by the 

 Council. 



The resignation of Mr. Harold Wingate as a member of the 

 Council was received and accepted. 



The following were elected members : 



N. W. Frazier, Samuel H. Gilbert, Seneca Egbert, M. D. , 

 Wilfred H. Harned, John Cadwalader, Jr. , and Gulielma M. S. P. 

 Jones. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



SYNOPSIS OF THE NORTH AMERICAN SPECIES OF GORYTES Latr. 



BY WILLIAM J. FOX. 

 GORYTES Latreille. 



Gorytes Latreille, Hist. Nat., XIII, p. 308, 1805. 



Hoplisus Lepeletier de St. Fargeau, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, I, p. 56, 1832. 



Euspongus Lepeletier de St. Fargeau, ibid. 



Dienoplus Fox, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 549, 1893. 



For the full synonymy of this genus see Handlirsch's mono- 

 graph.* 



Females. 



Antennae strongly clavate. (Eyes large, strongly convex and 

 strongly converging toward clypeus; tarsi graceful and 

 long; mesosternum not carinated.) monedu/oides. 



Antenna? not strongly clavate 2 



2. First segment of abdomen coarctate at apex 3 



First segment of abdomen not coarctate, sessile or subpetio- 



late 5 



3. First recurrent nervure received by the first submarginal cell; 



wings hyaline throughout; submedian cell (anal area) of 

 posterior wings terminating much before the origin of the 



cubital nervure; size small bipunctatus. 



Both recurrent nervures received by the second submarginal 

 cell; wings with a fuscous cloud; submedian cell (anal 

 area) not or terminating but little before the origin of the 

 cubital nervure; size larger 4 



4. Enclosure of middle segment striated at base only; head, 



thorax, abdomen and legs spotted with yellow . . mellinoides. 

 Enclosure of middle segment striated throughout; entirely 

 black, except the second abdominal segment which is ru- 

 fous rufocinctus. 



o. Wings clear, without the usual fuscous spot 6 



Wings more or less fuscous, always with a cloud in the 



vicinity of the marginal and submarginal cells 8 



6. First abdominal segment subpetiolate, the apical margins of 

 all the segments broadly clothed with pale pubescence. 



eximius. 



First abdominal segment sessile 7 



* Sitztmgsberichte der k. k. Akademie der Wissenchaften, Wien, Mathe- 

 matiscb-naturwissenschaftliche Classe, Abtheilung I, XCVII Bd., p. 317. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



7. Submedian cell of posterior wings terminating much before 



the origin of the cubital vein; thorax and legs black, not 

 spotted; abdomen reddish in greater part, not marked with 

 yellow; enclosure of middle segment striated basally. 



pictifrom. 



Submedian cell of posterior wings not, or but slightly, termi- 

 nated before the origin of the cubital vein; thorax and legs 

 spotted with pale yellow; hind femora and two basal seg- 

 ments of abdomen, reddish, the abdomiual segments above 

 with pale yellow on their apical margins; enclosure of 

 middle segment striated throughout Coquillettii. 



8. Second ventral segment not at all angular 12 



Second ventral segment prominently angular 9 



9. Middle segment coarsely rugose throughout 11 



Middle segment not rugose, the furrow forming the enclosure 



broad, crossed longitudinally by coarse ridges; flagellum 

 subclavate (third segment not fasciate; second ventral with 

 very large punctures toward the base) nigrifrons. 



10. Palpi dark; fourth dorsal abdominal segment without a fascia, 



or with a very short one mystuceus. 



Palpi in part yellow; fourth dorsal segment with a complete 

 fascia campestris.* 



11. Eyes converging but little toward the clypeus 12 



Eyes distinctly converging toward the clypeus 20 



12. At the most the middle segment and first segment of abdo- 



men rufous; space between base of clypeus and fore ocellus 



as broad, or nearly so, as long VA 



Entirely rufous, with yellow markings, the yellow bands of 

 abdomen unusually broad; middle segment yellow; space 

 between base of clypeus and anterior ocellus distinctly 

 longer than broad diversus. 



13. Middle segment and first segment of abdomen more or less 



reddish 14 



Middle segment and first segment of abdomen not reddish . . 15 



14. Last dorsal segment with a well-developed pygidial area 



which is subtriangular and rugose; second discoidal cell 

 with apical portion dark fuscous; legs variegated with red, 



black and yellow spilojiterus. 



Last dorsal segment with the pygidial area poorly developed, 

 short and broad, strongly punctured; second discoidal cell 

 pale fuscous except its lower portion; legs red, with the 

 tibiae yellow in part tricolor. 



* According to Handlirsch, the second ventral segment of mystaceus, to- 

 ward the base, is marked with deep fovete, while in campestris that segment 

 has only larger punctures toward the base. According to the specimens be- 

 fore me, consisting of a cf and ? of mvslaceus and a d campestris, this state- 

 ment should be reversed as campestris has the deep fovese and mvslaceus the 

 punctures. * 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



15. Last dorsal segment yellow 16 



Last dorsal segment black 17 



16. Legs black; first dorsal segment not fasciate fuscus. 



Legs reddish, except base ; first dorsal segment fasciate. pygidialis. 



17. Mesosternum anteriorly sharply and strongly carinated; 



pygidium broad, not more than twice as long as its width 



in the middle 18 



Mesosternum anteriorly neither sharply nor strongly cari- 

 nated; pygidium long, narrow, somewhat more than twice 

 as long as its width in the middle (form very robust) . costalis. 



18. No distinct fuscous cloud in the second discoidal cell; front 



distinctly longer than broad; coxse and trochanters reddish, 



rarely obscure 19 



A distinct fuscous cloud filling the apical third of second dis- 

 coidal cell; front fully as broad as long; coxpe, trochanters 

 and femora in part, obscure nebulosus. 



19. Wings, excepting the usual fuscous cloud in the vicinity of 



the marginal cell, hyaline; enclosure of middle segment 



with 14-16 close-set ridges confertus. 



Wings fuscous, the cloud in the vicinity of the marginal cell 

 darker; enclosure of middle segment with 10-12 well- 

 separated ridges denticulatus. 



20. Middle segment more or less coarsely sculptured 2J 



Middle segment not coarsely sculptured, smooth 30 



21. Posterior surface of middle segment coarsely sculptured ... 22 

 Only the basal enclosure of middle segment coarsely sculp- 

 tured entirely or in part 27 



22. Wings with a strong yellow tinge on basal two-thirds .... 23 

 Wings not yellow basally 25 



23. Sculpture of enclosure of middle segment consisting of even, 



radiating ridges ; flagellum either entirely black, or with 



basal joints reddish 24 



Sculpture of enclosure of middle segment coarsely and irregu- 

 larly rugose; flagellum yellow beneath, black above (mark- 

 ings bright yellow; first joint of flagellum distinctly shorter 

 than the two following united) asperatus. 



24. Flagellum long, scarcely clavate, the first joint distinctly 



shorter than the two following united; clypeus entirely 



black; markings yellow atrifrons. 



Flagellum short, subclavate, the first joint but little longer 

 than the following two united; clypeus whitish basally; 

 marking whitish cdbosignatus. 



25. Femora, except apex, and the tibire in part, black; flagellum 



yellow beneath, black above 26 



Femora in greater part, tibia? and tarsi, reddish; flagellum 

 black, basal joints reddish (middle segment with two large 

 yellow spots) decorus. 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



26. Flagellum long, setaceous; scape elongate much more than 



twice as long as broad at apex; middle segment with two 



yellow spots atricornis. 



Flagellum shorter, a little clavate; scape short but little more 

 than twice as long as its width at apex, middle segment 

 not spotted canalieulatus . 



27. Extreme base of enclosure of middle segment only striated . . 28 

 Entire enclosure covered with striae 29 



28. Wings scarcely yellow the stigma testaceous; markings palish 



yellow; dorsal segments 4 and 5 impunctate .... simillimus. 

 Wings with a tolerably yellow tinge, the stigma yellow; 

 markings bright yellow; dorsal segments 4 and 5 with scat- 

 tered punctures angustatus var. 



29. Antennae with the flagellum distinctly thickened apically, 



yellowish beneath, at least basally angustatus. 



Antennae sleuder, the flagellum setaceous, obscure testaceous 

 beneath nevadensis. 



30. Dorsal segments 4 and 5 impunctate 31 



Dorsal segments 4 and 5 with distinct, scattered punctures . . 35 



31. Suture between dorsulum and scutellum foveolate 32 



Suture between dorsulum and scutellum not foveolate 



phaleratus. 



32. Wings, in greater part, dark fuliginous 33 



Wings yellow ferruginous venustus. 



33. Wings clear at apex; first two segments almost entirely 



yellow abdominalis. 



Wings entirely fuliginous; only the first segment spotted 

 with yellow 34 



34. Head and thorax black, ornamented with yellowish; clypeus 



black; first dorsal segment entirely yellow Smithii. 



Head and thorax reddish-brown, including the clypeus; first 

 segment yellow at apex, otherwise colored like thorax, floridanus. 



35. Wings subfuscous ; clypeus entirely yellow ; middle segment 



entirely black, pygidial area with sparse, shallow punc- 

 tures bipartitus. 



Wings hyaline, the marginal cell excepted; clypeus with base 

 only yellow; middle segment with two rufous spots; 

 pygidial area with deep, closer punctures . . . rufomaculatus 



Males. 



Antennae strongly clavate; hind tarsi unusually long and 

 graceful moneduloides. 



Antennae not strongly clavate; hind tarsi not unusually long . 2 

 2. First segment of abdomen coarctate at apex (abdomen black, 

 the second and third dorsal segments with a lateral pale 

 spot) bipunctatus. 



First segment not coarctate, sessile or subpetiolate 3 




1895.] NATURAL- SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



3. Submedian cell of posterior wings terminating before the 



origin of the cubital vein 4 



Submedian cell of posterior wings not terminating before the 



origin of the cubital vein 8 



4. Second ventral segment prominently angular 6 



Second ventral segment not angular 5 



•5. First abdominal segment subpetiolate, apical margins of the 

 segments broadly margined with pale pubescence; antennae 



short eximiu8. 



First abdominal segment sessile, the abdomen red in part, not 

 pubescent; antenna? long, slender pietifrons. 



6. Middle segment coarsely rugose throughout 7 



Middle segment not rugose, the furrow forming the enclosure 



wide, crossed longitudinally by strong ridges; antenna* 

 shorter than head and thorax, joints 2-6 of fiagellum 

 strongly rounded-out beneath nigrifrons. 



7. Antenna? very long; palpi obscure mystaceus. 



Antenna? shorter; palpi in part yellow campestris.* 



8. Middle segment more or less coarsely sculptured 9 



Middle segment not coarsely sculptured, smooth 31 



9. Dorsulum strongly punctured 10 



Dorsulum not strongly punctured 20 



10. First abdominal segment subpetiolate; last ventral segment 



bifid 19 



First abdominal segment not subpetiolate 11 



11. Fifth ventral abdominal segment armed with a strong promi- 



nence at each side. (See fig. 1.) con/ertus. 



Fifth ventral segment unarmed 12 



12. Mesosternum dentate laterally (entirely red, with pale mark- 



ings) 13 



Mesosternum not dentate 14 



13. Middle segment not at all yellow; abdominal fascia* nar- 



row; fuscous cloud of fore wings not extending beyond the 

 apex of marginal and third submarginal cells . . . . denlatus. 

 Middle segment yellow in greater part; abdominal fascia un- 

 usually broad; fuscous cloud of fore wings extending to 

 apex of wing diversus. 



14. Eighth and ninth joints of fiagellum spinose beneath .... 16 

 Eighth and ninth joints of fiagellum not spinose, at the most 



tuberculate 15 



15. Enclosed space on middle segment smooth ; middle segment 



and first and last abdominal segments more or less red; 



legs entirely red tricolor. 



Enclosed space on middle segment distinctly striated; middle 



*See foot note, p. 518. 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



segment and first abdominal segment not red, the last seg- 

 ment yellow pygidialis. 



16. Clypeus with a bunch of long, curved hairs in each angle ... 17 

 Clypeus with the hair at angles not very long, not curved or 



bunched 18 



17. Spine of ninth joint of flagellum large and distinct; head as 



wide as thorax ; legs black and yellow hamatus. 



Spine of ninth joint of flagellum small, indistinct; head small, 

 narrower than thorax ; legs red and yellow . . . microcephalus. 



18. Wings fuscous, the cloud in the vicinity of the marginal cell 



darker; middle segment with two yellow spots . . denticulatus. 

 Wings, except the usual fuscous cloud in the vicinity of the 

 marginal cell, subhyaline ; middle segment not spotted 

 barbatulus. 



19. Wings entirely yellowish, the marginal cell scarcely darker; 



antennae entirely rufous. Length 11 mm laminiferus. 



Wings slightly yellowish basally, the marginal cell distinctly 

 fuscous; antennae dark above mirandus. 



20. Last ventral segment emarginate or bifid, flagellum rather 



short, the last four joints enlarged, somewhat emarginate 



beneath (wings without a fuscous cloud) insolitus. 



Last ventral segment with a spine or process 21 



21. Posterior surface of middle segment coarsely sculptured ... 22 

 Only the basal enclosure of middle segment coarsely sculptured 27 



22. Eyes very broad, their width equalling more than half their 



length, the space between them at base of clypeus about 

 equal to the length of the latter in the middle; enclosure of 



middle segment irregularly rugose asperatus. 



Eyes as usual, their width scarcely equalling half their 

 length, the space between the eyes at base of clypeus 

 greater than the length of the latter in the middle; enclo- 

 sure of middle segment longitudinally ridged 23 



23. Wings with a strong yellow tinge on basal portion 24 



Wings not, or but slightly, yellow basally 25 



24. Antennae tolerably long, reaching a little beyond the scutel- 



lum; markings bright yellow atrifrons. 



Antennae shorter, not reaching beyond the scutellum; mark- 

 ings whitish albosignatus. 



25. Antennae a little thickened apically, the joints irregular (legs 



black and yellow) cancdiculatus. 



Antennae not thickened apically, the joints more even .... 26 



26. Femora except apex and tibiae in part yellowish; dorsulum 



unspotted atricomis. 



Femora, in greater part, tibiae and tarsi, reddish; dorsulum with 

 a lateral stripe or spot decorus. 



27. Only the base of the enclosure of middle segment with striae. . 28 

 The entire surface of enclosure of middle segment striated. . . 29 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



28. Flagellum not thickened apically; wings scarcely yellowish. 



simillimus. 



Flagellum thickened apically, wings yellowish basally. 



angustatus var. 



29. Wings distinctly yellowish; femora entirely yellow beneath. . 30 

 Wings scarcely yellowish; femora black basally beneath. 



simillimus var. 



80. Flagellum thickened apically angustatus. 



Flagellnm setaceous nevadensis, 



31. Dorsal segments 4 and 5 impunctate 32 



Dorsal segments 4 and 5 with distinct,! scattered punctures . . 36 



32. Suture between dorsulum aud scutellum foveolate 34 



Suture between dorsulum and scutellum not foveolate .... 33 



33. Flagellum rather long, the joints about twice as long as broad, 



prominently rounded-out beneath; wings with a yellowish 



cast phaleratus. 



Flagellum shorter, somewhat subclavate, the joints (basal 

 ones excepted) not twice as long as broad, not rounded-out 

 beneath; wings black, apex pale propinquus. 



34. Wings in greater part dark fuliginous 35 



Wings yellow, ferruginous venustus. 



35. Wings clear at apex; middle segment spotted with reddish. 



abdominalis. 



Wings entirely fuliginous (head and thorax black) . . . Smithii. 



36. Antenme rather long, reaching at least to apex of scutellum. . 37 

 Antennae shorter, not reaching to apex of scutellum, subclav- 

 ate (middle segment spotted with rufous) . . . rufomaculatus. 



37. Abdomen with very broad fasciae; middle segment spotted 



with yellow; basal joints of flagellum reddish . . . .fasciatus. 

 Abdomen with narrow fascia?; middle segment not spotted; 

 basal joints of flagellum black above biparlitus. 



1. Gorytes moneduloides Pack. 



Gorytes moneduloides Packard, Proc, Ent. Soc, Pkila., VI, p. 424. $ . 

 Gorytes Belfragei Cresson, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 224. 9 



Georgia, Louisiana, Texas. A 9 specimen, from Mexico, differs 

 by the dark legs, absence of yellow spots of scutellum, and the band 

 of first dorsal abdominal segment is broken into two spots. 



2. Gorytes bipunctatus Say. 



Gorytes bipunctatus Say, Narr. Exped. St. Peter's Kiver (Keating) II, Zool., 



p. 338. 

 Lestiphorus bipunctatus Dahlboni, Hym. Eur., I, p. 157. 

 Euspongus bipunctatus Dahlborn, ibid., p. 480; Cresson, Synopsis, p. 117. 

 Gorytes bipunctatus Handlirseh, Sitzb. k. k. Akad. Wissenscb., Wien, Ma- 



tbem.-naturw. Classe, Abtb. I, Band XCVII, p. 355, 9 



Found throughout the United States, except in the States north 

 and northeast of Pennsylvania. The male is similar to the female ) 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



being 1 marked the same. It agrees with the group characters given 

 by Handlirsch, on p. 347 of his work, except that the first recur- 

 rent vein is received by the second submarginal cell, instead of the 

 first as in the female. 



The spots on the second abdominal -segment are occasionally ab- 

 sent, or enforced by the presence of an additional pair on the third 

 segment. 



3. Gorytes rufocinctus Fox. 



Gorytes rufocinctus Fox, Can. Ent., 1892, p. 153, 9 



Washington State. This may be the female of piceus Hdl. , 

 which I have not seen. 



4. Gorytes piceus Hdl. 



Gorytes piceus Handlirsch, I.e., p. 455, $ 



British Columbia. Unknown to me and may be the $ of rufo- 

 cinctus. The face, antenna? and legs are said to be more or less 

 yellow, and the second dorsal laterally and the second ventral rufo- 

 brunneous. 



5. Gorytes mellinoides n. sp. 



9 . — Eyes diverging toward the clypeus, the latter convex, its 

 anterior margin a little incurved medially; antenna? long, slender, 

 the first joint of flagellum longer than the scape aud pedicellum 

 united; suture between dorsulum and scutellum foveolate; mesos- 

 ternum carinated anteriorly, with the epimerum and episternum of 

 the mesothorax not separated ; middle segment with the enclosure 

 well marked, and large, divided by a central furrow and longitu- 

 dinally striated on basal third, otherwise finely punctured; wings 

 clear, a slight fuscous cloud including part of the marginal, second sub- 

 marginal and part of third discoidal cells, nervures and stigma testa- 

 ceous, submedian cell of posterior wings terminating at, or slightly 

 before, the origin of the cubital vein; legs with the medial and hind 

 tibia? spinose, the anterior tarsi with a distinct comb, pulvilli dis- 

 tinct; abdomen with first segment distinctly coarctate at apex, 

 second segment much broader, sides rounded, pygidial area coarsely 

 and sparsely punctured, not distinctly ridged laterally, second ven- 

 tral strongly punctured. Black; clypeus, except apical margin 

 and a basal spot, inner orbits, spot between antenna?, scape, pedi- 

 cellum and first flagellum joint basally beneath, line on pronotum 

 and scutellum, the fore and medial coxa?, trochanters and femora 




1895.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



beneath, spot at each side of first dorsal segment, an oblique spot 

 on each side of the second, apical margin of the third dorsal and second 

 ventral, all yellow; flagellum beneath, tegulre and greater part of 

 legs testaceous. Length 9 mm. 



Texas (Belfrage). Collection of U. S. National Museum. 



6. Gorytes mystaoeus Linne. 



Sphex mystacea Linne, Fauna Suecica, p. 412. 



Gorytes mystaceus Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 367, pi. II, f. 15; pi. III. f. 6, 9 $ ■ 

 For full synonymy see Handlirsch, 1. c. 



Handlirsch records this species from America. I have only seen 



European examples. 



7. Gorytes campestris Mull. 



Vespa campestris Miiller, Linne's Natursystem, V, II, 883. 

 Gorytes campestris Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 372, 9 $ , pi. I, f. 1, 25. 28; pi. II, 

 f. 14. For full synonymy see this author. 



Also recorded from North America by Handlirsch. I doubt the 

 occurrence of either mystaceus or compestris in America, the speci- 

 mens seen by Handlirsch being very likely labelled erroneously. 



8. Gorytes nigrifrons Smith. 



Gorytes nigrifrons Smith, Cat. Hym. B. M., IV, p. 368, 9 

 Gorytes Bollii Cresson, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc. IV, p. 225 9 

 Gorytes nigrifrons Handlirsch, 1. c. p. 376. 



Nova Scotia (Smith); North Carolina, in Collection of U. S. 

 Nat'l Museum; Texas. Through the courtesy of Mr. Samuel Hen - 

 shaw, I have examined the type of O. Bollii Cr., and find it agrees 

 exactly with Smith's description of nigrifrons, which therefore cor- 

 roborates Handlirsch' s action in uniting the two, although he had 

 seen specimens of neither. The wide furrow, which forms the en- 

 closure of middle segment, distinguishes this species from any of its 

 congeners, and by which character the $ , heretofore unknown, may 

 also be separated from either of the two preceding species. 



9. Gorytes fuscus Tasch. 



f Gorytes vespoides Smith, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. XII, p. 407, 9 1873. 

 Hoplisus fuscus Taschenhurg, Zeitsch. f. d. ges. Xaturw., p. 368, 1875. 



Recorded from Connecticut by Handlirsch. Occurs in Mexico 

 and Brazil. The £ , which I have not seen, is said to be distin- 

 guished from its allies by its simple, non-emarginate, non-spinose 

 or tuberculate antenna?, and by the first segment being not fasciate. 



10. Gorytes confertus n. sp. 



9 . — Eyes toward the clypeus very slightly converging; antenna? 

 a little clavate, the scape longer than the pedicellum and first joint 




•526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



of flagellum united, the latter joint much longer than the second; 

 clypeus with anterior margin truncate, not barbate laterally; front 

 strongly and sparsely punctured; dorsulum with large sparse 

 punctures, those of the mesopleurae less strong; suture between 

 dorsulum and scutellum foveolate; episternum and epimerum 

 mesothoracis indistinctly separated, the mesosternum sharply cari- 

 nated anteriorly and laterally; middle segment posteriorly with 

 large punctures, the enclosure rather large, well-marked, with 14-16 

 close-set, ridges or strire; legs stout, the tibiae spinose, fore tarsi 

 with a strong comb; wings clear, except the usual fuscous cloud, 

 which includes the marginal and part of the second and third sub- 

 marginal cells, nervures brown, stigma yellowish, submedian cell of 

 posterior wings terminating at the origin of the cubital vein; abdo- 

 men strongly punctured, particularly the second ventral segment, 

 pygidial area with large, elongate punctures, ridged laterally. 

 Black; clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, scape, flagellum 

 beneath, inner and posterior orbits, sometimes a line across the ver- 

 tex, line on pronotum, tubercles, spot behind them, scutellum, 

 postscutellum sometimes, a broad fascia at apex of dorsal segments 

 1-5, and apex of second and third ventrals more or less, all yellow; 

 legs, including coxse, entirely reddish- testaceous. Length 8— 8J mm. 

 $ .—Resembles 9 as to coloration but has a strong grayish 



sericeous reflection over the entire in- 

 sect, and the tibiae and tarsi are more 

 or less yellow. Eyes strongly con- 

 verging beneath; clypeus with a fringe 

 of hairs on each side, anteriorly, 

 which are not bunched, however; joints 

 8 and 9 of flagellum somewhat tu- 

 mid beneath, otherwise the antenna? 

 simple; fifth ventral segment devel- 

 oped into a distinct lobe on each side 



F ig. 1. Apical segments of abdo- r 

 men. G. con/ertus, showing produc- (see figure 1). Length 8 mm. 



tion of fifth ventral segment. Montana. Is remarkable for the 



peculiar modification of the fifth ventral segment of the male. 



11. Gorytes tricolor Cress. 



Gorytes tricolor Cresson, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, I, p. 380, $ (non 9 ). 

 Gorytes tricolor Fox, Can. Ent., 1892, p. 149, 9 . 



New Mexico; Colorado; Montana. The color of this species 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIIjADELPHIA. ''-' 



varies from back with the middle segment red to entirely rufous. 

 The yellow ornamentation is usually the same in both forms, how- 

 ever. 



12. Gorytes ruficornis Prov. 



Gorytes ruficornis Provancher, Add. Hym. Quebec, p. 273, 9 $ ■ 

 California (Provancher). Unknown to me. Seems to be near 

 tricolor. 



13. Gorytes diversus n. sp. 



9 .—Eyes parallel within; front with shallow punctures; space 

 between the fore ocellus and base of clypeus distinctly longer than 

 wide; clypeus strongly convex in middle; antenna? rather longer than 

 usual for species of this section, the flagellum but little thickened 

 apically, its first joint more than one-third longer than the second, 

 scape long and narrow, longer than the following two joints united; 

 dorsulum, mesopleura? and middle segment posteriorly with large, 

 separated punctures; suture between dorsulum and scutellum foveo- 

 late; mesosternum carinated anteriorly, not laterally, the epimerum 

 and episternum mesothoracis indistinctly separated; enclosure of 

 middle segment well marked, with about 18 stria?; tibia? and tarsi 

 spinose, anterior tarsal comb well developed ; wings with a fuscous 

 cloud including the- marginal, second and third submarginals and 

 part of the third discoidal cells, a fuscous stain along the basal 

 nervure, stigma yellowish, nervures black; abdomen strongly 

 punctured, particularly ventrally, pygidial area with strong punc- 

 tures, scarcely ridged laterally. Rufous; anterior and posterior 

 orbits, the former narrowly, pronotum, greater part of mesopleura?, 

 scutellum, postscutellum, middle segment almost entirely, spot on 

 medial and hind coxa?; dorsal segments of abdomen except extreme 

 base of second and the last usually, and greater part of ventrals 2-4, 

 or 5, all yellow; apical anteunal joints fuscous. Length 8*-9 mm. 



$ .—Colored like the 9 , except in the folloAving points: clypeus, 

 mandibles, inner orbits broadly, scape beneath, dorsulum at sides, and 

 the legs, more or less, yellow; rufous on middle segment and abdomen 

 more extended. Fuscous cloud reaching apex of wing; clypeus not 

 barbate laterally; antenna? shorter and stouter, joints of flagellum 

 rounded beneath, 8-10 subemarginate ; eyes very slightly converg- 

 ing beneath; enclosure of middle segment smaller than in 9 , with 

 about 14, rather feeble, stria?; mesosternum dentate laterally. 

 Length 8 mm. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Los Angeles, California (Coquillett). In collection U. S. Nat'l 

 Museum. 



14. Gorytes dentatus Fox. 



Gorytes dentatus Fox, Can. Ent., XXV, p. 116, $ . 



Grand Canon, Arizona (Townsend). This species has no yellow 

 on the middle segment, and the yellow markings of abdomen are 

 narrow, wanting entirely on three last segments. 



15. Gorytes pygidialis n. sp. 



9 . — Eyes diverging slightly toward clypeus; the latter scarcely 

 convex; front strongly punctured, with a strong central furrow; 

 scape about as long as the following two joints united, flagellum 

 somewhat thickened apically, the first joint about one- third longer 

 than the second; dorsulum, mesopleurse and middle segment with 

 large separated punctures, closest on posterior face of middle segment 

 whose enclosure is scarcely defined, with about 16 coarse ridges; 

 mesopleune indistinctly carinated, epimerum and episternum meso- 

 thoracis indistinctly separated; tibiae and tarsi strongly spinose, the 

 anterior tarsi with a distinct comb; wings clear, except the fuscous 

 cloud which includes the marginal, upper portion of second and third 

 submarginals, thence extending to the basal nervure bordering the 

 first submarginal and first discoidal cells; abdomen strongly punc- 

 tured, pygidial area long and narrow, ridged laterally and with 

 large punctures. Black; clypeus in part or entirely, mandibles 

 except apex, scape more or less, inner and posterior orbits, basal 

 joints of flagellum beneath and sometimes above, line on pronotum, 

 tubercles, spot behind them, scutellum, postscutellum sometimes, 

 femora and tibia? in part, fascia at apex of segments 4-5, last segment 

 entirely or in part and apical margin of ventrals of 2 and 3, or 4, 

 more or less, yellow; the width of the fascue varies somewhat; legs 

 reddish testaceous in greater part, basally obscure. Leugth 9-10 mm. 

 Var. — Autennre reddish-yellow; dorsal segments of abdomen 

 except the base of 1 and 2, entirely yellow; a small yellow spot on 

 each side of middle segment. 



$ . — Eyes converging toward the clypeus but not strongly; 

 clypeus barbate laterally, transverse; joints 2-7 of flagellum tumid 

 beneath, the eighth and ninth submarginate: between the antenna? 

 a short, distinct carina; mesosternum distinctly carinated, both 

 anteriorly and at the sides. Length 8 mm. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. •»-" 



Montana; Colorado (Snow); Las Cruces, New Mexico (Cockerell). 

 The 9 is very like costalis, but is smaller and has the last segment 

 yellow. If the $ of costalis, when discovered, presents no better 

 characters for distinction than those of the 9 , the two will probably 

 have to be united. 



16. Gorytes costalis Cress. 



Gorytes costalis Cresson, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, IV, p. 225, J . 



Texas; Algonquin (Nason ) and Peoria, Illinois. A specimen from 

 St. Augustine, Florida (Johnson) has the legs entirely reddish 

 testaceous, only the two first segments margined with yellow and the 

 fuscous of the wings is much more extended than is usual. I am 

 indebted to Mr. Henshaw for the opportunity of examining the type 

 of this species. 



17. Gorytes hamatus Hdl. 



Gorytes hamatus Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 403, $ , pi. 2, f. 17. 

 Gorytes maculatus Provanclier, Le Nat. Can. XXII, p. 140. 9 • 



Texas (Belfrage) ; Colorado; Dakota; Montana; Washington 

 State; Nevada; Los Angeles, California (Coquillett). This is a 

 variable species- both in size and coloration. The middle segment is 

 sometimes bispotted, and the legs may be yellow and black or the 

 femora may be more or less reddish. The spine of the ninth antennal 

 joint is much more distinct in some specimens than in others. 

 Length 7-9 mm. 



18. Gorytes microcephalus Hdl. 



Gorytes microcephalus Handlirsch, 1. c.,p. 405, $ . 



Georgia (Handlirsch) ; Colorado. I have taken it in the latter 

 part of June, in Camden County, New Jersey, but not commonly. 



19. Gorytes Pergandei Hdl. 



Gorytes Pergandei Handlirsch, 1. c. p. 407. $ . 



Virginia and Illinois (Handlirsch). Unknown to me. The 

 middle segment is said to be more coarsely sculptured posteriorly 

 than in its allies, microcephalus and barbatulus, being " almost cica- 

 tricose. ' ' 



20. Gorytes nebulosus Pack. 



Gorytes nebulosus Packard, Proc. Ent. Soc, Phila., VI, p. 424, 9 . 



Massachusetts (Packard) ; New Jersey ; Georgia. The front in 

 this species is fully as broad as long, and the pygidium is broader 

 than usual. 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



21. Gorytes rugosus Pack. 



Gorytes rugosus Packard, 1. c, p. 427, $ . 



Brunswick, Maine (Packard). Unknown to me. This will, no 

 doubt, eventually prove to be the $ of nebulosus. 



22. Gorytes armatus Prov. 



Gorytes armatus Provancher, Add. Hym. Quebec, p. 272, $ . 



Ottawa, Canada (Provancher). Unknown to me. This species 

 is said to have the mandibles spined near the base on "superior" 

 margin. The occurrence of such a character in Gorytes is question- 

 able ; and it is not unlikely that Provancher has been misled by the 

 lateral bunches of hair, with which the clypeus of the males of this sec- 

 tion is furnished, and which frequently present a waxy appearance, 

 thereby resembling a spine to some extent. The removal of this 

 character from consideration suggests the uniting of armatus with 

 rugosus. 



23. Gorytes barbatulus Hdl. 



Gorytes barbatulus Handlirscb, 1. c, p. 40S, $ . 



Illinois and Texas (Handlirscb.) ; Agricultural College, Missis- 

 sippi (H. E. Weed) ; District of Columbia. The feniale specimens, 

 doubtfully referred to barbatulus by Handlirsch, belong to denti- 

 culatus. 



24. Gorytes denticulatus Pack. 



Gorytes denticulatus Packard, Proc. Ent. Soc, Phila., VI, p. 430, $ (non 9 ). 

 Gorytes barbatulus (iu pt.) Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 410, 9 • 



Florida; Georgia; Louisiana; Mexico. Handlirsch is right in 

 assuming Packard's type to be a $ , instead of a 9 , as I have ex- 

 amined the type. The middle segment may or may not be yellow- 

 spotted, and the first abdominal segment is sometimes variegated with 

 rufous. I have no doubt but that denticulatus is identical with 

 plaeidus, which I have not seen. 



25. Gorytes plaeidus Sm. 



Gorytes plaeidus Smith, Cat. Hyui. B. M. IV, p. 368, $ 9 . 

 Gorytes rufipes Smith, ibid, p. 369, 9 • 

 Gorytes plaeidus Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 530. 



East Florida (Smith). Unknown to me. I fully agree with 

 Handlirsch in uniting plaeidus and rufipes. 



26. Gorytes spilopterus Hdl. 



Gorytes spilopterus Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 414, 9 , P^ Ij f- 18. 



Colorado; Nevada; Montana; Washington State. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



• 



27. Gorytes piotifrons Fox. 



Dienoplus pictifrons Fox, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1893, p. 549. 9 $ . 



Washington State. Seems to differ only from niendicus by having 

 the enclosure of middle segment striated basally, a character liable 

 to vary. 



28. Gorytes mendious Hdl. 



Gorytes niendicus Handlirsoh, Auu. k. k. uaturh. Hofmuseums, VJ I. p. 278, 9 • 



British Columbia (Handlirsch). Unknown to me. 



29. Gorytes Coquillettii n. sp. 



9-— Eyes strongly converging toward the clypeus ; the latter 

 rounded behind, its anterior margin a little incurved ; front with 

 punctuation indistinct, apparently coriaceous; antenna? short, fiagellum 

 clavate, the first and second joints about equal in length, scape short 

 and broad, longer, however, than the two following joints united; 

 dorsulum and mesopleurie finely and closely punctured; suture be- 

 tween dorsulum and scutellum foveolate; mesosternum not ridged, the 

 epimerum and episteruum mesothoracis separated ; middle segment 

 finely punctured, the enclosure large, well-defined and covered with 

 about 16, oblique stria', the central furrow rather broad; legs stout, 

 tibia? and tarsi spinose, the fore tarsi with a distinct comb; wings 

 clear throughout, nervures and stigma black, submedian cell of hind 

 wings terminating at the origin of the cubital vein; abdomen 

 elongate, the segments not much constricted at the sutures, indis- 

 tinctly punctured, finely so ventrally, pygidium with strong punc- 

 tures, margined at the sides. Black ; first three or four abdominal 

 segments more or less, and hind femora, except base, reddish, 

 antenna? beneath, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, line on 

 pronotum, tubercles, spot on scutellum, spot at apex of fore and 

 medial femora, short stripe on the medial and hind tibia? exteriorly, 

 two transverse spots on apical margin of the first abdominal segment 

 and a long, sinuate stripe on each side of the apical margin of seg- 

 ments 2-4, whitish-yellow; tarsi dark ; front and dorsulum brownish 

 tomentose, that on clypeus, sides of thorax and in particular the 

 middle segment, silvery. Length 7 mm. 



Los Angeles, California, in April (Coquillett). In collection of 

 U. S. Nat'l Museum. 

 36 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



30. Gorytes insolitus n. sp. 



$ . — Head rather large; eyes converging toward the clypeus; the 

 latter large, most prominent anteriorly, anterior margin truncate, 

 not barbate, front finely and closely punctured, without a median 

 impressed line; antenna? tolerably stout, flagellum with joints 2-9 

 tuberculate beneath, particularly the sixth joint, from which joint 

 the flagellum is suddenly thickened ; scape short triangular ; thorax 

 finely and closely punctured, moat strongly on mesopleurae; meta- 

 pleune striated; suture between dorsuluin and scutellum foveolate; 

 mesosternum ridged anteriorly; enclosure of middle segment large, 

 well defined, the stria 1 coarse, not well marked ; hind tarsi thick, 

 scarcely spined, fore tarsi somewhat flattened; wings clear through- 

 out, uervures and stigma black, submediau cell of hind wings 

 terminating a little before the origin of cubital vein; abdomen short 

 and broad, not constricted at the segments, finely punctured; veutrals 

 3-5 with a prominent transverse fringe of appressed yellow hair, 

 last ventral bifid. Black ; clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, 

 spot between antennae, sometimes wanting however, inner orbits, 

 scape, flagellum beneath, line on pronotum, tubercles, a spot behind 

 them, scutellum, dot on postscu tell urn, apex of femora more or less, 

 tibia? except within, fore and medial tarsi except last joint, a fascia 

 at apex of segments 1-6, twice emarginate anteriorly and enlarged 

 laterally, and apical margin of second ventral in part, sometimes, 

 all yellowish; middle segment with silvery pubescence ; hind tarsi 

 dark. Length 6 mm. 



Southern California; Nevada. The small size, stout form, and 

 shape of antennae easily distinguish this species. 



31. Gorytes gracilis Patt. 



Hop lisns gracilis Patton, Can. Ent., XI, p. 210, £> • 

 Gorytes gracilis Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 456, O <? • 



Connecticut (Patton) ; Georgia (Handlirsch). Unknown to me. 



32. Gorytes mirandus Fox. 



Gorytes mirandus Fox, Can. Ent., XXIV, p. 152, $ . 

 Nevada. 



33. Gorytes laminiferus n. sp. 



$ . — Eyes but little converging toward clypeus the latter con- 

 vex, rather small, transverse; front with large, shallow punctures; 

 antennae long, scape broad, a little shorter than the following two 

 joints united, flagellum thickest between middle and apex, first joint 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



longer than the second, joint 8 excised beneath, joints 9 and 10 much 

 smaller, also excised beneath, the ninth indistinctly so, last joint rather 

 long and slender; dorsuluru and mesopleurse with large, rather 

 shallow punctures; mesosternum carinated laterally and anteriorly; 

 epimerum and episteruum mesothoracis distinctly separated ; middle 

 segment posteriorly cicatricose, its enclosure very strongly defined, 

 the stria' coarse and rather irregular ; legs long, tibite and tarsi 

 spinose, fore femora formed into a broad lamina; wings yellowish, 

 including nervures and stigma, submedian cell of posterior wings 

 terminating at the origin of the cubital vein ; abdomen with first 

 segment long and narrow, subpetiolate as in mirandus, apical 

 segments distinctly punctured, last ventral segment bifid. Black; 



antenna' entirely and base of wings 

 rufous; clvpeus, inner and posterior 

 orbits, face below antennae, labrum, 

 mandibles except apex, line on pro- 

 notum, tubercles, long spot behind 

 them, scutellum, postscutellum, spot 



FlG. 2. Fore femur, (jGn/lrs . ., c .,,, . -, 



laminiferus. on each side of middle segment, and 



a broad fascia at apex of dorsal seg- 

 ments 1-6 and ventrals 2-4, entirely yellow ; last two ventrals 

 reddish ; legs variegated with reddish, yellow and black, abdomen 

 tomentose. Length 11 mm. 



Washington State. Apparently close to gracilis, but differs in the 

 enclosure of middle segment being striated throughout, coarse punct- 

 ures of dorsulum, yellow wings, etc. Handlirsch does not mention 

 the anterior femora in his description of the $ of gracilis, and it is 

 therefore likely that they are not laminate as in mirandus and 

 laminiferus. 



34. Gorytes atrifrons Fox. 



Gorytes atrifrons Fox, Can. Ent., XXIV, p. 151, 9 $ . 



Nevada. 



35. Gorytes albosignatus Fox. 



Gorytes albosignatus Fox., ibid, p. 152, 9 $ • 



Montana; Colorado (Gillette). The specimen from the latter 

 locality, a 9 , measures but 7 mm. The basal spot of clypeus is 

 sometimes divided. 




534 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



36. Gorytes geminus Hdl. 



Gorytes geminus Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 478, 9 $ . 



Virginia (Handlirsch). Unknown to me. The flagellum in both 

 sexes is said to be entirely black, the 9 thus being distinguished 

 from both atricornis and canaliculatus. The $ has the flagellum 

 joints about twice as long as broad, in which it agrees with canali- 

 culatus, but differs thereby from atricornis £ . G. canaliculatus 

 ( $ ) has the flagellum beneath and two spots on middle segment 

 yellow, whereas in geminus these parts are said to be black. 



37. Gorytes vioinus Hdl. 



Gorytes vicinus Handlirsch, Ann. k. k. naturh. Hofrnuseums, VIII, p. 279, 9 . 



Washington State (Handlirsch). Unknown to me. It is evi- 

 dently close to atricornis; but the wings are said to be strongly 

 tinged with yellow. 



38. Gorytes atricornis Pack. 



Gorytes atricornis Packard, Proc. tint. Soc Phila., VI, p. 428, 9 $ ■ 



Canada; Maine; New Hampshire; Massachusetts; Washington 

 State; Nevada. The middle segment may or may not be spotted. 



39. Gorytes canaliculatus Pack. 



Gorytes canaliculatus Packard, ibid., p. 428, 9 • 



Canada. The flagellum of the $ is shorter than in atricornis 

 and is yellowish beneath, and the enclosure of middle segment has 

 15-16 even strise. 



40. Gorytes asperatus n. sp. 



9 .—Eyes toward the clypeus distinctly converging, about as in 

 canaliculatus; scape short, stout, subtriangular, about as long as the 

 following two joints united; flagellum evidently a little clavate 

 [last seven joints missing], the first joint about one-third longer than 

 the second ; clypeus rather long, transverse, feebly convex, its 

 posterior margin nearly straight ; front finely and closely punct- 

 ured, faintly impressed, thorax finely and closely punctured, suture 

 between dorsulum and scutellum foveolate; mesosternum sharply 

 ridged; middle segment coarsely rugose, except on the sides near the 

 base, enclosure large, strongly marked, covered with irregular rugae; 

 legs stout, comb of fore tarsi distinct; basal two-thirds of wings 

 yellowish, marginal cell fuscous, uervures dark, stigma yellow, sub- 

 median cell of hind wings terminating beyond the origin of the 

 cubital vein; abdomen rather short and broad, finely punctured, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



tirst segment not striated basal ly, pygidial area triangular, indis- 

 tinctly margined at the side?, with large, sparse punctures. Black ; 

 clypeus except fore margin, labrum, mandibles except apex, inner 

 orbits, antenna: beneath, line on pronotum, tubercles, spot behind 

 them, scutellum, line on metanotum (postscutellum), small spot on 

 each side of middle segment, femora at apex and anterior pair 

 beneath, tibiae except a spot within, tarsi except apical joints, a 

 broad fascia on dorsal abdominal segments 1-5, and a spot on the 

 apical margin of second ventral laterally, which at the extreme sides 

 is enlarged and runs toward the base of the segment, all yellow. 

 Length 8 mm. 



$ . — Similar to the 9 as the coloration, but the flagellum entirely 

 black ; eyes large strongly converging toward the clypeus, the space 

 between them at the base of the latter about equal to half that at the 

 vertex ; clypeus but little shorter than broad ; flagellum stout, a 

 little thickened apically, the joints (first two excepted) about twice 

 as long as broad, last joint a little longer than the preceding one; 

 tibiae and tarsi scarcely spinose, hind tarsi thickened ; wings but 

 slightly yellowish basally ; greater part of ventral segments yellowish. 

 Length 7-8 mm. 



Southern California. Distinguished from eanaliculatus by the 

 yellowish wings, particularly in the female, irregular sculpture of 

 enclosure of middle segment, and much broader eyes of male, which 

 give the head, seen from the front, a very transverse shape. There 

 are four $ specimens before me from Washington State which 

 I refer doubtfully to this species. The yellow markings are more 

 restricted, there being no yellow on the tubercles and middle seg- 

 ment. The markings, also, are a paler yellow. 



41. Gorytes decorus n. sp. 



5 . — Eyes converging toward the clypeus, but a little less strongly 

 so than in the two preceding species; front finely and closely punct- 

 ured; clypeus transverse, somewhat convex, with large punctures; 

 antennae tolerably long, not thickened apically, scape elongate , about 

 as long as the first joint of the flagellum, the latter joint scarcely 

 one-third longer than the second; thorax shining, indistinctly punct- 

 ured; mesosternum distinctly carinated, the epimerum and epi- 

 sternum mesothoracis separated; suture between dorsulum and 

 scutellum foveolate; middle segment irregularly rugose posteriorly, 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



the enclosure large, well defined, and covered with about 12 strong, 

 somewhat wavy striae; tibiae and tarsi spinose; wings subhyaline, the 

 marginal cell excepted, nervures brownish, stigma yellowish, sub- 

 median cell of posterior wings terminating much beyond the origin 

 of the cubital vein ; abdomen shining, almost impunctate, first 

 segment not striated basally, pygidial area flat, rounded at apex, 

 distinctly margined laterally, strongly punctured. Black ; base of 

 clypeus, scape beneath, sometimes a small spot on inner orbits 

 beneath, pronotum, tubercles, a spot behind them, a stripe bordering 

 the dorsulum laterally, scutellum, spot on metanotum, large spot on 

 each side of middle segment, a fascia at apex of dorsal segments 1-5 

 and a narrow one at apex of ventrals 2 and 3 or 4, yellow; legs 

 except base testaceous, the fore and medial femora more or less 

 yellow beneath; basal half of flagellum beneath of the same color as 

 legs, which color sometimes extends to the upper portion. Length 

 8 mm. 



$ . — Colored like the 9 , but the clypeus entirely yellow and the 

 flagellum entirely black; eyes strongly converging beneath, the space 

 between them at the base of clypeus equal to somewhat more than 

 half of that at the vertex ; clypeus about twice as broad as long in 

 the middle ; flagellum long, somewhat setaceous, the joints more than 

 twice as long as broad, the first two joints about equal in length; 

 hind tarsi less thickened than in asperatus. Length 7-8 mm. 



Montana. The color of legs, large spots of middle segment and 

 almost want of yellow on orbits are good superficial characters to 

 separate decorvs from its allies. 



42. Gorytes simillimus Sm. 



Gorytes simillimus Smith, Cat. Hym. B. M., IV, p., 367, 9 • 

 Gorytes ephippiatus Packard, Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila. , VI, p. 423, $ . 

 Gorytes simillimus Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 500, 9 $ ■ 



Occurs from Canada to Georgia (Handlirseh), westward through 

 the more northern States to Washington. The spots on middle 

 segment are not constant. A 9 specimen from New Jersey, col- 

 lected in the latter part of June, I refer to simillimus doubtfully. 

 Its legs are highly colored with yellow and reddish, mandibles with 

 a yellow spot basally, and the furrow between the metapleurse and 

 middle segment is foveolate throughout, whereas in typical speci- 

 mens the fovea? are confined to the top. Another specimen, a $ , 

 from Washington State has the enclosure of middle segment striated 

 throughout. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



43. Gorytes angustus Prov. 



Gorytes laticinctus Provancher (uec Shuckard), Add. Hym. Quebec, p. 274, $ . 

 Gorytes angustus Provancher, Le Nat. Can.. XXII, p. 141. 9 • 



Vancouver (Provancher); Washington; California; Nevada. A 

 variable species as to size and coloration. The abdomen in two ( 9 ) 

 specimens before me is densely tomentose so that when held in cer- 

 tain lights, its maculation is almost concealed. 



44. Gorytes nevadensis Fox. 



Gorytes nevadensis Fox, Can. Ent.. XXIV, p. 150, 9 $ . 



Nevada. 



45. Gorytes venustus Cress. 



Gorytes venustus Cresson, Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila., IV, p. 472, 9 $ . 

 Hoplisus venustus Cresson, Synopsis, p. 280. 

 Gorytes venustus Handlirsch, 1. c, p 504. 



Colorado; Texas; New Mexico (Saute Fe, Cockerell); Mexico 

 ( Handlirsch). 



46. Gorytes Smithii Cress. 



Gorytes Smithii Cresson, Proc. Ent. Sect., A. X. S. Phila.. 1880. p. 18, $ 



"(non 9 ) (Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, VIII). 

 Hoplisus Smithii, Cresson, Synopsis, p. 280. 

 Gorytes Smithii Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 531. 



Illinois; Kansas. The type of this species is a $ , and not 9 

 as stated by Cresson. 



47. Gorytes floridanus Fox. 



Hoplisus foveolata Fox (nee Handlirsch), Ent. News. I, p. 10(5, 9 . 

 Gorv/es floridanus Fox, ibid., II., p. 196. 



Florida. The eyes converge less toward the clypeus in this spe- 

 cies than in Smithii. 



48. Gorytes phaleratus Say. 



Gorytes phaleralus Say, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., I, p. 367. 



Gorytes fulvipennis Smith, Cat. Hym. B. M., IV, p. 367, 9 . 



Gorytes apicalis Smith, ibid., p. 369, 9 . 



Gorytes modestus Cresson. Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila.. IV, p. 473, $ . 



Gorytes rufoluteus Packard, ibid., VI, p. 425, $ 9 . 



Gorytes flavicorn is Packard, ibid., p. 429, $ 9- 



Gorytes phaleratus Handlirsch. 1. c. p. 507, 9 $ • 



Occurs from Canada to Texas and Mexico ; Colorado ; Dakota. 



A variable species as the synonymy indicates. 



49. Gorytes propinquus Cress. 



Gorytes propinquus Cresson, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, I, p. 379, $ ^uon 9 ). 

 Gorytes abdominalis Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 510. 



New Mexico; Texas. Not identical with abdominalu as sup- 

 posed by Handlirsch. 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



i 



50. Gorytes abdominalis Cress. 



Gorytes abdominalis Cresscm, 1. c, p. 474, $ J • 

 Hoplisus abdominalis Cresson, Synopsis, p. 279. 

 Gorytes abdominalis Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 510. 



Colorado. 



51. Gorytes bipartitus Hdl. 



Gorytes bipartitus, Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 521. 



Georgia. 



52. Gorytes divisus Sm. 



Gorytes divisus Smith. Catal. Hym. B. M. IV, p. 370, $ . 



Georgia (Smith). Unknown to me. This differs only from bi- 

 partitus, apparently, by the suture between dorsulum and scutelluni 

 being smooth, not foveolate. It is very likely, however, as sug- 

 gested by Handlirsch, that Smith's statement is erroneous. 



53. Gorytes rufomaculatus n. sp. 



9 . — Eyes strongly converging toward the clypeus, somewhat less 

 so than in bipartitus, however ; front with large punctures, strongly 

 impressed down the middle; clypeus convex, strongly punctured, 

 about one-quarter broader than long, subemarginate in middle of 

 anterior margin ; antennae shorter than in bipartitus, the flagellum 

 subclavate ; thorax smooth, impunctate ; mesosternum distinctly 

 carinated; suture between dorsulum and scutelluni foveolate; en- 

 closure of middle segment broad and short, well marked and 

 divided by a longitudinal furrow ; suture between metapleurae and 

 middle segment not foveolate; legs robust, tibiae and tarsi spinose ; 

 wings clear, except the marginal cell, nervures testaceous, stigma 

 yellow, subniedian cell of hind wings terminating much beyond the 

 origin of the cubital vein; abdomen short and broad, first segment 

 impunctate, the following segments distinctly punctured, pygidial 

 area rather long, coarsely punctured and distinctly margined later- 

 ally. Black ; hase of clypeus, inner orbits, line on pronotum, 

 tubercles, spot behind them, scutelluni except base, and a fascia at 

 apex of dorsal segments 1-3, yellow; antennae, legs, large spot on 

 each side of middle segment, small spot on dorsulum at wings, tegulse 

 and the first ahdominal segment at the sides, rufous. Length 

 9-10 mm. 



$ . — Colored like the 9 > but the clypeus entirely, a fascia on 

 abdominal segments 4 and 5, and the fore tarsi, yellow; clypeus 

 nearly as long as broad; antennae shorter than in bipartitus, flagellum 




1895.] NATHRAl, SCIKNCKS <>K l'HIl.ADKIil'HIA. 539 



with joints not rounded-out as in that species, the last 6 or 7 joints 

 not twice as long as hroad ; seventh dorsal segment distinct, broad, 

 rounded at apex ; hind tarsi somewhat thickened. Length 8 mm. 

 Dakota; Montana; Colorado (Gillette). 



54. Gorytes fasciatus n. sp. 



<? . — Eyes strongly converging toward the clypeus; the latter 

 convex, distinctly broader than long ; front strongly punctured, 

 with a medial impressed line; antemue much longer than in rufo- 

 maculatns, joints of flagellum cylindrical, rather long ; thorax im- 

 punctate ; mesosternum distinctly carinated ; suture between dor- 

 sulum and scutellum foveolate ; enclosure of middle segment well- 

 marked; suture between metapleurse and middle segment foveolate 

 above only, and is deeper than in rufomaeulatus; legs tolerably robust; 

 wings yellowish on basal two-thirds; fuscous in marginal cell only, 

 submedian cell of hind wings terminating much beyond the origin of 

 cubital vein; abdomen long, dorsals 1 and 2 impunctate, the remain- 

 der strongly punctured, seventh dorsal distinct, rounded apically. 

 Black; clypeus, inner orbits, face below antenna?, labrum, mandibles 

 except apex, scape and pedicellum, line on pronotum, tubercles, 

 spot behind them, scutellum posteriorly, spot on each side of middle 

 segment, fore femora beneath, tibia 1 and tarsi more or less, a broad 

 fascia on dorsal abdominal segments 1-6, on ventrals 2 and 3 and 

 spot on each side of ventrals 4-6, bright yellow ; basal joints of fla- 

 gellum, tegular and greater part of legs, reddish. Length 10 mm. 



Colorado. Differs from the two preceding in the yellowish wings, 

 yellow spots on middle segment, broad fascia of abdomen, and by 

 the suture between metapleurse and middle segment being foveolate 

 above. 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



December 3. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Forty- six persons present. 



Trap Dykes in Chester County, Pennsylvania. — Theo. D. Kand 

 stated that two important trap dykes in Chester County had seemed 

 almost to have escaped notice. One of these, a peculiar porphyry, 

 described by Mr. Goldsmith as containing the variety of silica, 

 vestan, is best shown in Williams' quarry, near Aldham, on the 

 Phoenixville branch ot the Pennsylvania Railroad. It extends 

 thence in a northeastwardly direction with a width of about 100 ft. 

 It is not apparent to the westward, but a rock which Mr. Goldsmith 

 has pronounced identical occurs near Barneston Station on the 

 Waynesburg branch of the Pennsylvania Railroad. Some masses 

 of this rock have a loud and clear ring when struck, as shown in 

 specimens exhibited to the Academy by Mr. Borden. 



The other dyke forms a bluff on the right bank of the Brandy- 

 wine, almost in Downingtown, and perhaps 500 ft. north of the bridge 

 which carries the Lancaster Turnpike over the creek. It is again 

 exposed on the Pennsylvania Railroad just above the station, and 

 again much more largely a quarter of a mile further west, where on 

 the south side it is exposed for a depth of nearly thirty feet. Thence 

 it may be traced by fragments up the South Valley hill for prob- 

 ably five hundred feet in a general S. S. W. direction. About two 

 miles southwest, near the source of Broad Run and nearly north of 

 Romansville, it again appears, but no outcrop between could be 

 found. In the same direction, about two miles further, it appears at 

 Mortonville, on the right bank of the west branch of the Brandy- 

 wine. Three-quarters of a mile further, at the crossing of Buck 

 Run by the old road from Mortonville to Doe Run, it is exposed in 

 large loose masses. A mile beyond it appears south of Doe Run 

 village and thence southwestward is almost or quite continuous, 

 being in vast quantity southwest of the Marlborough Hall School- 

 house. It is crossed by the Pomeroy and Newark Railroad at the 

 southwestern part of the S curve near the source of the south branch 

 of Doe Run. Here it looks almost like cobblestones, to so great a 

 degree has boulder decomposition occurred. Three miles beyond, it 

 was found by Mr. Harry Wilson, of Green Tree, to whom my ac- 

 knowledgments are due for much aid in tracing this dyke. Fur- 

 ther southwest in Peuu and Lower Oxford townships are several 

 trap outcrops, some of them included by Prof. H, Carvill Lewis 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PH I LADELPH r A. 541 



in the Conshohocken dyke, but they had not yet been identified with 

 this dyke. 



This trap is quite coarse grained and is quite similar in its aspect 

 throughout its whole extent, though coarsest to the northwest. It 

 was examined by Mr. Goldsmith (specimens from the outcrop on 

 Buck Run), who informed Mr. Rand that it is a gabbro-phonolite, 

 containing as it does plagioclastic feldspar, sanidin augite, diallage, 

 magnetite and hematite. 



December 10. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Forty-four persons present. 

 The death of Samuel G. Lewis, a member, was announced. 



December 17. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " Eclogue Botanica 3 , No. 2," by Edw. L. Greene. 

 "Notes on the Study of the Cross-Fertilization of Flowers by 

 Insects," by Ida A. Keller, Ph.D. 



The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award reported as 

 follows : — 



Report of the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award. 



The Committee on the award of the Hayden Memorial Medal 

 and accompanying fund respectfully reports, that, at a meeting held 

 on the 4th of December last, it was unanimously agreed to confer the 

 award for the year 1895, upon Prof. Karl Alfred von Zittel 

 of Munich, Germany, whose services to the sciences of geology and 

 paleontology extend continuously over a period of thirty years. 



In naming this candidate the Committee feels that it is honoring 

 the sciences of which Prof, von Zittel is .so distinguished an exponent, 

 and only properly recognizes the researches which appeal to every 

 student of geology. 



Born in 1839, Prof, von Zittel was, at the age of twenty-four, ap- 

 pointed to the Professorship of Mineralogy at Karlsruhe, and three 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1895. 



years later to the Professorship of Paleontology at the University of 



Munich, a position, jointly with that of Director of the Paleonto- 



logical Museum, which he still holds. His published works cover a 



large range of personal investigation, not the least important of 



which are the researches into the structure and physiography of the 



Libyan Desert and the Sahara. His monumental work, " Hand- 



buch der Palaontologie," which has only recently been completed, 



stands without rival in the literature of geology. 



For this meritorious work the Committee respectfully recommend 



the award. 



Persifor Frazer, 



Angelo Heilprin, 



Benj. Smith Lyman, 



J. P. Lesley, 



Theo. D. Rand. 



Committee. 



December 24. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



December 31. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Two hundred and seventy-three persons present. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FLORA OF GREENLAND. 

 BY THKO. HOLM. 



There is hardly auy part of the arctic region that has been more 

 thoroughly explored by botanists than the narrow strip of land 

 which constitutes the west coast of Greenland, bordering on the 

 inland ice. 



Numerous expeditious, especially from Denmark and Sweden, 

 have visited the country, and the literature upon this subject 

 gives us a relatively complete knowledge of the distribution of a 

 large number of plants in addition to notes on the general character 

 of the vegetation. It is true, however, that the vegetation of several 

 places, especially on the northern part of the coast, is still almost 

 unknown to us. Explorations of late date have contributed to ex- 

 tend our knowledge of these more or less inaccessible localities, and 

 the material collected is, therefore, of great importance. Interest 

 attaches to two American expeditions to the northwestern coast, 

 Cape York, Wosteuholm Island, McCormick Bay, etc., localities 

 which were either unknown or had so far only been slightly touched 

 upon by botanists. 



Mr. Wm. E. Meehan has reported 1 on the results of these ex- 

 peditions, extending considerably the range of several plants. He 

 has enumerated the various plants collected, and several rare species 

 are recorded. A set of the duplicates was presented to the National 

 Herbarium at Washington, and they have been studied by me with 

 great interest, because of my own exploration of the coast of Green- 

 land. 



Some of Mr. Meehan' s identifications are incorrect, and I there- 

 fore present the following notes in the hope of contributing to the 

 accuracy of the results. The corrections are merely a supplement 

 to Mr. Meehan's paper. 



It is stated that Dryas octopetala, next to Papaver, is perhaps the 



1 A Contribution to the Flora of Greenland. Proceed. Acad, of Nat. Sci. 

 Philadelphia, April, 1892, 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



commonest flower in Greenland. The plant sent to the National 

 Herbarium represents D. integrifolia Vahl, not D. octopetala, of 

 which, so far, but a very few specimens have been collected on the 

 west coast by former expeditions. 1 



Other corrections are as follows: — 



Ranunculus pygmceus Wahl. is R. hyperboreus Rottb. 



Draba hirta L. from Disco is D. arctica Vahl. 



Draba hirta L. from the Nuuatak is D. nivalis Liljeb. 



Cochlearia officinalis L. is C. groenUuidica L. 



Stellaria longipes Goldie is S. humifusa Rottb. 



Potentilla pulchella B. Br. is P. Vahliana Lehni. 



Saxifraga nivalis L. was mixed with S. rimdaris L. 



S. stellaris L. is the arctic variety comosa Poir. 



Erigeron uniflorus L. is the variety pulchellus Fr. 



Vaccinium uliginosum L. is the arctic variety microphyllvm Lge. 



Pyrola rotuudifolia L. is P. groenlandiea Horn. 



Salix arctica R. Br. is S. glauca L. 



Luzula arcuata Mey. is L. confusa Lindeb. 



Eriophorum polystaehyon L. var. latifolium is E. angustijolium 

 Roth. 



Carex atrata L. is G. misandra R. Br. 



Poa nemoralis L. is P. glauca Vahl. 



Poa pratensis L. is P. flexuosa Wahlbg. 



Trisetum sesquiflorwm Trim is T. mbspieatum Beauv. 



Calamag rostis Lungsdorffii is C. phragmitoides Hn. 



Woodsia ilvensis Br. is W. hyperborea R. Br. 



Several other species enumerated by Mr. Meehau seem doubtful, 

 but there are no specimens of these in the collection sent to the 

 National Herbarium. 



Lychnis apetala L. is evidently L. triflara R. Br. or L. affinis 

 Vahl ; as it is stated by Mr. Meehan that the specimens had from 

 one to six flowers. 



Comas ca)iadensis L. has never before been found in Greenland, 

 but we suggest that the specimens represent ('. suecica L., a plant 

 which is not uncommon in that region. 



Camjyanula rotundifolia L. is probably the variety arctica Lge. 



Pedicularis capitata Adams, is noted from Disco. It has so far 



1 Compare Joh;ui Lunge: Conspectus Flora; Groenlandioae. Copenhagen, 1880. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



only been found near Foulkefjord (78° 18' ), so that the identification 

 seems doubtful. 



The same is the ease with Pedicularis versicolor Wahl., which is 

 not known from Greenland ; it may have been confounded with P. 

 flammed L. , which is quite common. 



Abies obovata Loud, is evidently a misprint. 



Glyceria fluitam is also doubtful. It has never before been 

 observed in Greenland, although there are several other species of 

 Glyceria quite frequent in various places. 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



ECLOG.E BOTANICJE, NO. 2. 



by edward l. greene. 



1. Some New Western Plants. 



Trifolium trunoatum. 



T. ampiecteus Greene, Pitt. I, 6, not of.Torr. and Gray. 

 T. stenophyllum Greene, Fl. Fr., 34, partly, not of Nutt. 

 T. Franciscanum var. irnncatum Greene. Man.. 100. 



Annual, 5 to 10 inches high, branching from the base, slender, 

 flaccid when young, the branches and peduncles wiry in age; herbage 

 vivid green and glabrous: lowest leaflets broadly cuneiform and 

 truncate, less than \ inch long, the upper larger and ampler, 1 inch 

 long, oblong-cuneiform or oblong-linear, truncate or obtuse, often re- 

 fuse, not manifestly venulose, sparingly toothed : very slender 

 peduncles exceeding the leaves : heads subglobose, about \ inch in 

 diameter when mature: corolla yellowish-white, tipped with dark 

 purple, the tube at length inflated to the broadly obpyramidal and 

 truncate, except as abruptly pointed by the withered remains of the 

 tips of the petals. 



This, one of the most common clovers of the middle California 

 inland districts, I was long unable to believe to be an unrecognized 

 species; and, as the bibliography shows, I have made repeated efforts 

 to reconcile it with one and another of the poorly described species 

 of Nuttall. Then, at last, in the Manual of Ray-Region Botany, I 

 made it a part — a named variety — of what I thought must be a new 

 species; but, within a few months from the time of publishing T. 

 Franciscanum, I was privileged to see, in the Herbarium of the 

 British Museum, the type specimen of Nuttall' s T. stenophyllum; 

 and I was surprised to discover, in that type, just what I had taken 

 as the type of my own T. Franciscanum. From that type, a common 

 species of the seaboard districts, the present plant is very distinct. 

 The name truncatum is adopted for the species in allusion to the very 

 broad and flat-topped bladdery-inflated corolla-tube, rather than to 

 the form of the leaflets, which, however, are very commonly truncate 

 also. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



Trifolium lilaoinum. 



Annual, flaccid, the erect or merely decumbent branches 6 to 10 

 inches high : herbage apparently glabrous, but the growing parts 

 more or less hirsutulous under a lens: lowest leaflets obovate, the 

 upper oblong, or elliptic-lanceolate, minutely spinulose-serrulate : 

 peduncles elongated, far surpassing the leaves and somewhat scapi- 

 form : hemispherical and amply involucrate heads £ inch broad; 

 involucre of 8 or 10 obovate broad and somewhat overlapping 

 laciniately cleft lobes; subulate-setaceous and plumose calyx- teeth 

 about as long as the campanulate thin and scarious 5-nerved tube : 

 corolla | inch long, of a rich deep lilac- purple tipped with pink or 

 white. 



A most beautiful ally of T. barbigemm, and of apparently quite 

 limited range; but it is common on the lower slopes of one or two 

 hills at South San Francisco. Cab, and has been collected once by 

 Mr. Bioletti and once by myself on the eastern side of the bay still 

 further southward. 



Trifolium rostratum. 



Annual, glabrous, very slender, diffuse, dwarf, the branches only 

 2 or 3 inches long : stipules rounded, spreading, laciuiate : very 

 slender petioles elongated; leaflets cuueate-obcordate, only ! inch 

 long, evenly and acutely serrate-toothed : peduncles exceeding the 

 leaves; involucre small but manifest, about 4 or 5 lines wide, lobed and 

 laciniate : head less than ■*. inch broad, rather few-flowered : calyx- 

 teeth longer than the subcampanulate tube, oblong-ovate, tapering 

 to a rigid aristiform apex : corolla purple, tipped with white, the 

 keel with a long beak-like apex at least a third as long as the body. 



A species of quite remarkable floral structure, collected only by 

 Mr. V. K. Chestnut, at Lake Merritt, Oakland, California, 1889; 

 at that time referred hy me (Fl. Fr., HO), with much hesitation, to 

 T. appendiculatum . 



Boisduvalia diffusa. 



Much branched from the base, the slender, wiry, white and shin- 

 ing sparingly leafy branches 8 to 12 inches long, very decumbent or 

 almost prostrate, and, with the leaves, sparsely hirtellous when 

 young, mostly glabrate in age: the scattered leaves, ovate and 

 oblong-ovate, and ovate-lanceolate, ! to i inch long, all sessile, and 

 all, even the lowest as well as the uppermost, with a flower in the 

 37 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



axil ; petals about a line long, bifid, deep red-purple : capsule about 

 4 lines long, of oblong-lanceolate outline, curving outward, about 

 50-seeded : seeds dark brown, glabrous, somewhat angular, and of 

 subclavate-oblong outline. 



Dry bed of the upper Humboldt River, near Deeth, Nevada, 

 Aug. 5, 1895. 

 Valerianalla magna. 



Glabrous, the stout stems sharply angular, 3 to 5 feet long, tortu- 

 ous, half-reclining on fences or among bushes, and with rather many 

 small axillary branches : cymes thyrsoidly congested at the ends of 

 the stem and branches : corolla white, bilabiate, with ample funnel- 

 form tube and a short thick spur : fruit glabrous externally, tri- 

 quetrous-ovoid, the ventral concavity formed by the ample wings 

 closed below, open above, the wings themselves strongly hispid-ciliate 

 within. 



Collected only by the author, in Knight's Valley, Sonoma Co., 

 Cal., June, 1894. Species noteworthy on account of its great size 

 and half-climbing habit; the fruit showing an affinity with V. aphcir 

 noptera. 



Valerianella oiliosa. 



Slender, erect, simple, seldom a foot high, corolla small, deep 

 pink, very distinctly bilabiate, the rather slender and tapering spur 

 much longer thau the body and produced far below the ovary : fruit 

 of roundish outline but modified by a very prominent stout apicula- 

 tion, the back glabrous, provided with a very broad ribbon-like 

 though distinctly bevelled keel, which is very densely ciliate along 

 both margins, the subrostriform apiculation bearing similar hairs, 

 the turgid-margined abruptly inflexed wings revealing the ventral 

 cavity by an elliptic acute opening. 



Plentiful on northward slopes of low hills west of Napa Valley, 

 California, growing with V. macrocera ; but very distinct, no less in 

 fruit characters than in form of corolla. 



Lessingia peotinata. 



Slender and very diffuse, the ascending or more widely spreading 

 and almost prostrate branches a foot long or more ; herbage scarcely 

 woolly even when young, green, sparingly stipitate-glandular and 

 scabrous throughout ; only the lowest leaves woolly, these and also 

 those of stem aud branches pectinate- pinnatifid, the segments pun- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHI LAHELPHI A. 549 



gently spineseent-tipped: involucral bracts narrow, acute, glandular- 

 puberulent : corollas yellow. 



Species known only from Monterey, California, where it has been 

 collected in recent times by Parry, Pringle, Tidestrom and others, 

 but earlier, as shown in the herbarium at Kew, by Hartweg. In 

 the American herbaria it is found mixed sometimes with L. germano- 

 rum, sometimes with L. glandulifera.. 



Pyrrocoma eriopoda. 



Caudex ligneous, covered with a dense white wool connected with the 

 bases of the petioles of the oblong lanceolate obtuse coarsely toothed 

 coriaceous glabrous or minutely scabrous leaves ; stem erect, rigid, 

 1 to 2 feet high, with a few ascending or suberect branches; cauline 

 leaves spatulate, the rameal ovate, acute, remotely serrate, less 

 than 1 inch long: heads solitary on the ends of the branches and in 

 the axils of the leaves; involucres turbinate-campanulate, about $ 

 inch high; bracts very rigid, oblong linear, green throughout, but 

 more herbaceous at the erect pungently acute apex: rays 15 to 20, 

 not showy. 



Collected at the Soda Springs, Esmeralda County, Nevada, July, 

 1888, by Mr. Shockley. 



Pyrrocoma solidaginea. 



Stems rather stout, decumbent, 12 to 18 inches high, lanuginous- 

 tomentose throughout, but the leaves, and often all but the base of 

 the stem ^labrate at maturity: radical leaves lanceolate, on rather 

 slender petioles, 2 to 5 inches long, entire or irregularly serrate, 

 abruptly acute; cauline spatulate, sessile by an auricu late-clasping 

 base: stem parted at the middle or toward the base into numerous 

 slender suberect branches bearing numerous raoemosely disposed, 

 small heads : involucres campanulate, 1 inch high ; bracts imbri- 

 cated loosely in about 3 series, linear, or oblong- linear, the green- 

 herbaceous erect tips pungently acute: rays 12 to 18, small, light 

 yellow. 



Along the Humboldt River, at Palisade, Nevada, 24th of July, 

 1893. Species much resembling a Solidago; the small heads not 

 rarely numbering as many as seventy-five on a single stem. 



Pyrrocoma subviscosa. 



Steins not rigid, 14 to 20 inches high, only slightly decumbent: 

 leaves, upper part of stem, and the inflorescence glandular-puberu- 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



lent aud resinous-viscid : leaves not in the least degree coriaceous ; 

 radical 6 or 8 inches long, lanceolate or linear-lanceolate, very 

 acute, salieutly and sharply serrate-toothed; the sessile cauline ones 

 more strongly toothed and the teeth spreading : heads only 3 to 5, 

 corymbose at summit of the stem: involucres broadly hemispherical, 

 1 to il inch broad ; bracts linear-lanceolate, acute, in about 3 not 

 very unequal series, herbaceous almost throughout except the inner- 

 most : rays 30 or more, showy. 



Near the Humboldt Wells, in eastern Nevada, 25th of .July, 

 1893. To be compared only with P. lanceolata, from which it dif- 

 fers most notably in the membranaceous texture of the whole plant 

 as well as in the fine close glandular indument. 



Aster militaris. 



Rigidly erect, 1 to 1] feet high, equably leafy aud simple up to 

 the somewhat fastigiately corymbose panicle: leaves 2 or 3 inches 

 long, scabrous-puberulent on both faces, and with scabrous-ciliolate 

 margins, mid vein prominent, lateral nerves none, the upper cauline 

 lanceolate, very acute, mucronate by the excurrent strong midvein, 

 tapering to a narrow half- clasping base, entire or obscurely serrate- 

 toothed: involucre turbinate, the oblong-linear obtuse bracts numer- 

 ous and much imbricated, green- herbaceous along the midvein and 

 at tip, pubescent, appressed ; rays numerous, pale- purplish: achenes 

 sparsely pubescent: pappus not copious, rather fragile. 



A well-marked species of genuine Aster, but not intimately related 

 to any other known. Obtained at Grant's Pass, in southern 

 Oregon, September, 1892, by Mr. Howell. 



Aster amplissimus. 



Erect, rather slender, 1 to 2 feet high, simple up to the summit, 

 then parting into 3 or more peduneuliform short branches, each 

 bearing a single very large head; stem red, bearing more or less 

 white hirsutulous pubescence, this often running somewhat in lines, 

 or on one side only, except under the heads, when it is denser: leaves 

 all ample, thin, entire; the radical 8 to 12 inches long, oblanceolate, 

 tapering to a slender winged and ciliolated petiole; cauliue few and 

 remote, from somewhat spatulate-lanceolate to linear- lanceolate, 

 acutish, sessile by an auriculate-clasping base : heads ■] inch high, 

 more than 1 inch broad; bracts from oblong- to linear-lanceolate, 

 acute, in 2 series but subequal, the outer series quite herbaceous, not 




1895.1 NATfTRAI, SCIENCES OF PHll.AHKLPHIA. 551 



spreading, bristly-eiliate, otherwise glabrous : rays large, rose-red or 

 purple: acheues sparsely strigose; pappus firm. 



In wet subalpine meadows, toward the limit of trees on Mt. 

 Reinier, Washington; collected by the writer, 21st of August, 1889; 

 probably not rare in the higher Cascades, and possibly forming a 

 part of the confused A. foliaceu* var. frondeus of Gray's Synoptical 

 Flora, but very distinct from the type of that variety, which belongs 

 to a different region. 



Aster frondeus. 

 Aster foliaceus, var. frondeus Gray, Syn. FL, I. Part 2, p. 103, in part only. 



Stems stoutish, decumbent, 1 to 2 feet high, green and nearly 

 glabrous, mostly simple up to the summit and bearing a solitary head, 

 or two or more on very short peduncles : leaves not thin, glabrous 

 except the scabrous-ciliolate margins, entii - e; radical obovate-oblong, 

 petiolate; cauline spatulate; acutish, 2 to 4 inches long, auriculate- 

 clasping : heads rather more than ■, inch high, twice as broad : 

 bracts of involucre of about equal length, the outer ovoid or oblong 

 and amply foliaceous ; inner more spatulate, but herbaceous almost 

 throughout : rays I inch long, light blue or purplish. 



Plant of the Rocky Mountain region in Colorado and Utah, thence 

 northwestward to the borders of California and perhaps Oregon; in- 

 habiting middle altitudes; its habit much like that of Solidago 

 Parn/i (Aphpdppus Parri/i Gray), but heads few or solitary. 



Vagnera pallescens. 



Rather slender, horizontally inclining (not erect), 2 or 3 feet high, 

 the whole plant of a pale glaucous-green, but not glabrous : leaves 

 sessile, ample, ovate- elliptic, obtusish, or with abrupt short apicula- 

 tion, thin and widely spreading, 4 to 6 inches long, nearly glabrous 

 above, rather stiffly hirtellous beneath : panicle of racemes rather 

 open, 4 to 6 inches long: flowers white, very fragrant: berries deep 

 cherry-red . 



Species inhabiting higher than middle elevations of the California 

 Sierra, from at least Fresno Co., northward : very unlike the stout 

 erect upright-leaved bright green V. aviplexicaulis of lower altitudes, 

 and of more northerly range, to which it has been referred. 



2. Revision of Tropidocarpum. 

 To the knowledge of this very noteworthy genus of plants, as it 

 was published by Sir William Hooker almost sixty years since, 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



nothing new was contributed until within the last decade. It was, 

 indeed, as recently as the year 18HM that, in a peculiar district of 

 the Califbrnian territory, I discovered a very clear, new species, 

 presenting fruit characters so precisely conformed to those of some 

 capparids, that I at once published the species as T. capparideum ; 

 and still more recently a third species has been detected by Dr. 

 A. Davidson, in southern California, aud published by him under 

 the uncomplimentary name of T. dubium. 



On my return from Europe a year ago, having seen and carefully 

 examined not only Hooker's type specimens, but also other valuable 

 and instructive materials at Kew, I was ready to give, and had 

 hoped to have written before this, what is still much needed, a 

 critical revision of the species. 



This generic type is altogether Californian, none of the species 

 ranging eastward beyond the western foothills of the Sierra Nevada, 

 or extending northward beyond the valley of the upper Sacra- 

 mento ; though to the southward one has been found as far beyond 

 the State boundary as San Quentin on the peninsula of Lower 

 California. 



From almost all known cruciferous plants, and from all other 

 American crucifera?, these differ notably, and very constantly, in 

 their leafy, or at least leafy-bracted inflorescence ; a character 

 which they have in common with all capparids; and, if the re- 

 markable T. capparideum, with its ample bladdery and wholly par- 

 titionless pod, dehiscing from the apex rather than from the base, 

 had been the type of the genus, one might say that the seeds alone 

 favor the retention of it within the order of Cruciferse, all other 

 less essential characters being those of the Capparidia?. 



By some error, either of Mr. Bentham's pen or of the printer, 

 the number of species of Tropidocarpum is given, in the Genera 

 Plantarum, as six, instead of one, or at most two; for at the time 

 that work was published only the two original Hookerian species 

 had been published, and even of these, one was beginning to be 

 looked upon as of questionable validity. 



Although the plants vary considerably in mode of growth, pu- 

 bescence, etc. , the pods are of such diversity as to render it impos- 

 sible that any botanist should treat the species as one only; and, 

 if not one, simply, no less than four must, in all consistency, be 

 recognized. These may be characterized essentially as follows : — 




1895.] NATURAL. SCIENCES OF PHIIiAOELHHIA. 553 



T. gracile Hook., lc. t. 43; Torr. and Gray, PL, 1,94; Greene, Fl. Fr., 278, and 

 Man., 27. 



Pod 1 to H inches long, lance-linear to linear, strongly decom- 

 pressed throughout, the cross-section nearly or quite linear; par- 

 tition extremely narrow, but apparently never wanting; seeds in 

 one row, filling each narrow keel- like valve, in outline somewhat 

 quadratelv oblong, black. 



T. macrocarpum Hook, and Harv. in Herb. Kew. "? T. dubium" Kobinson, 

 in Gray, Syn. Fl., I, 141, ex descr., but not as to Davidson's type. T. gra- 

 dle, var. scabriusculum, Greene, Fl. Fr., 278, and Man., 27, partly, but not 

 T. scabriusculum Hook. 



Pod H to 3 inches long, narrowly linear (often little more than 



A line wide), very flatly obcompressed throughout, or occasionally 



the lower ! or \ as flatly compressed laterally, this part destitute 



of partition, but the upper division obviously partitioned: ripe seeds 



unknown. 



T. dubium Davidson, Eryth., II. 180. 



Pod '« to 1] inches long, lance-linear, 1 line wide, the cross-sec- 

 tion distinctly and rather sharply rhombic, either 1 -celled through- 

 out, or the upper * or \ obcompressed and partitioned : seeds half 

 as large as in T. gradle, dark brown, obovoid. 



T. oapparideum Greene, Pitt., 1,217; Fl. Fr., 278 ; Man., 27; probably " ?T. cap- 

 parideum" Robinson, 1. c. 



Pod oblong, or linear-oblong, about \ inch long, slightly obcom- 

 pressed, the cross-section elliptic-oblong, partition wholly wanting ; 

 valves 4, but two narrower than the others and more persistent : 

 seeds in 4 rows. 



The first of the above species is the most variable one, being 

 usually erect and simple, with little pubescence, the pods without 

 any. In a more freely branching state, with abundant rather 

 harsh pubescence, it is T. scabriusculum Hook., though not what 

 I formerly so considered ; and I find the transition from typical 

 T. gradle to this so numerous, and the distinction so slight, that I 

 should hardly concede to the latter even varietal rank. 



The second species, T. macrocarpum, hitherto unpublished, is 

 what I had mistaken for T. scabriusculum ; and it was at Kew that 

 I discovered my error, where I found this very distinct species 

 indicated as a new one, in the handwriting of Harvey, with the 

 above name assigned it. Dr. Davidson, of Los Angeles, included it 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



in his T. dubium, but it is very different from the type of that species 



in its pod. 



The third species, Dr. Davidson's T. dubium, as to the typical 

 plant, is an excellent one by the sharply rhombic cross-section of the 

 short pod. In the only specimen of his which I have access to, there 

 is no instance of that twist in the pod which he assigns to the species ; 

 whence I infer that he has included in it, the preceding ; but the 

 essential character of that is its extremely long and narrow very flat 



pod. 



The fourth species, T. rapparideum, is such a remarkable con- 

 necting link between two or three distinct natural orders, that 

 herbarium botanists of the old school would naturally sit more at 

 ease if such a plant had not been discovered. It has invariably a 

 4-valved pod and 4 placentae. The valves separate from the 

 placenta? beginning at the top, just as in the capparids ; and when all 

 four of the valves have fallen away, the four placenta?, joined 

 together at the summit, remain in place, quite as in certain genera 

 of Papaveracea*. The pods are constantly devoid of every trace of a 

 partition, and there is not the least suggestion of anything anomalous 

 about the plant, In its locality it is even more abundant than any 

 other species, and less disposed to vary than is the typical species of 

 the genus. The statement in the Synoptical Flora, p. 141, as to the 

 capsules, " commonly containing a small capsule-like structure at 

 base," it is based on a single instance. Dr. Robinson's imagination 

 would seem to have led him to guess that this malformation may be 

 common. I alone have seen more of this plant than have all other 

 botanists, by at least tenfold, and am prepared to say that no species 

 of the genus is less variable in its fruit, or more constant in all its 

 excellent specific characters. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



NOTES ON THE STUDY OF THE CROSS-FERTILIZATION OF FLOWERS 



BY INSECTS. 



BY IDA A. KELLER. 



One of the most remarkable discoveries in plant physiology was 

 certainly that of the cross- fertilization of plants by the aid of insect 

 visitors. That this discovery, made toward the end of the last 

 century, was founded upon actual fact has been verified by almost 

 every one who has become interested in this most remarkable 

 phenomenon. Apparent as it is in many cases, in more instances, 

 cross-fertilization by means of insects is simply a conjecture. There 

 is no more fruitful source of error, perhaps, in the experience of all 

 scientific knowledge than a sudden brilliant discovery, which is 

 founded upon careful observations in a limited number of cases, and 

 the wholesale application of its results without the exercise of suf- 

 ficient caution. Again and again, the organic world has been shown 

 to be so complex that no one simple formula can be found to express 

 adequately the exact situation in each of a great variety of cases. 

 Experience is constantly showing that each particular case must be 

 carefully studied by "itself before we can with any degree of certainty 

 gain a thorough understanding of any general phenomenon in plant 

 or animal life. 



In my attempts to obtain an impartial view of the subject of cross- 

 fertilization, so far as the actual observations made in this field up to 

 the present day will permit, I was struck with a number of curious 

 facts in connection with the development of our knowledge in this 

 direction. I must, however, apologize for the rather meagre pre- 

 sentation of the subject. I have had neither the time nor the op- 

 portunity to acquaint myself thoroughly with its entire literature, 

 and the original observations which I have made in this line are 

 limited in number. 



Conrad Sprengel, as we all know, discovered " The Secret of 

 Nature Revealed in the Formation and Fertilization of Flowers." 

 Over one hundred years have passed since this was recorded, and 

 yet the plant world offers in this respect one puzzle after another. 




556 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1895. 



Instead of having exhausted the study of the subject by this time, it 

 seems to be gaining in interest. 



Naturally enough, it was not the tendency of scientists to try to 

 disprove what was evidently true from the observations of Sprengel, 

 but rather to develop more fully our knowledge of cross-fertilization. 

 I need only refer to the famous work of Darwin, to that of the 

 well-known German botanists, Hildebrand, H. Muller, Kerner, and 

 to that of the many close observers of our own day. 



The fact that cross-fertilization is of utmost value to the individual 

 species has been emphasized by Darwin. In fact, this great dis- 

 coverer contends repeatedly that pollen applied to the pistil of 

 the same flower is a positive injury to the species. It is curious 

 to note how this idea has influenced the authors of botanical 

 text-books. As one instance in many, I need only refer to Gray's 

 Structural Botany. To the rather long chapter devoted to the 

 description of the adaptation of flowers to insure intercrossing, a few 

 paragraphs are added in which the writer, it seems to me rather 

 unwillingly, admits that there are also special adaptations to insure 

 close fertilization, in fact, that there are cases which positively ex- 

 clude all chances of a cross. Of cleistogamous flowers, Gray says : 

 "Here the intention and the accomplishment of self-fertilization are 

 unmistakable. This peculiar dimorphism consists in the production 

 of very small or inconspicuous and closed flowers, necessarily self- 

 fertilized and fully fertile in addition to ordinary, conspicuous, and 

 much less fertile, though perfect flowers.'" He then continues: "It 

 has been said that the ordinary flowers in such plants are sterile, 

 and perhaps they always are so, except when cross-fertilized: in most 

 cases they are habitually infertile or sparingly fertile. Probably 

 they suffice to secure in every few generations such benefit as a cross 

 may give, while the principal increase is by cleistogamous, self- 

 fertilization, which thus offsets the incidental disadvantage of the 

 former mode." I have quoted the writer verbatim, because the 

 extract shows so plainly his mental attitude in regard to the signifi- 

 cance of this phenomenon. Here we have a concession in regard to 

 the extreme fertility of cleistogamous flowers, followed by a sug- 

 gestion in regard to the few mostly infertile conspicuous flowers 

 which accompany the former and from these, and the statement that. 



1 Gray's Structural Botany, p. 241. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



no species is altogether cleistogamous, taken as a premise, the follow- 

 ing conclusion is drawn: "Thus, cleistogamy, with all its special ad- 

 vantage, testifies to the value of intercrossing." The same hias, 

 looking favorably upon cross-fertilization, may be observed in most 

 writers on the subject. The prevailing impression seems to be that 

 close fertilization is, as a rule, only resorted to when all the chances 

 for cross-fertilization are at an end. 



It appears that the problem permits of a wholly different solution. 

 Among the few writers who admit this, there is perhaps none who 

 speaks with as much decision and who adduces as many facts to 

 prove his assertions as does Mr. Meehan. In his interesting paper, 

 entitled "Are Insects any Material Aid to Plants in Fertilization" — 

 the conclusions are as follows : — 



First : The great bulk of colored flowering plants are self- 

 fertilizers. 



Secondly : Only to a limited extent do insects aid fertilization. 



Thirdly : Self-fertilizers are every way as healthy and vigorous, 

 and immensely more productive than those dependent on insect aid. 



Fourthly: That where plants are so dependent, they are the worse 

 fitted to engage in the struggle for life, the great underlying principle 

 in natural selection. 



These views are directly opposed to the impression one would natu- 

 rally receive from text-books on botany. It is evident that it is of 

 the utmost importance to study the significance and, if possible, the 

 cause of each of the various factors with which we have to deal as 

 pointing either towards cross- or towards close-fertilization. As 

 already suggested, it is always a critical matter to generalize where 

 thousands of species are concerned which have developed under a 

 variety of circumstances. 



Let us now consider the chief adaptations which point towards 

 cross-fertilization : — 



I. Distinct sexes. 



II. Specially adapted or conspicuous corolla. 



III. Peculiar position of stamens and pistils. 



IV. Difference in the time of maturity of stamens and pistils. 



I. Distinct sexes. The male and female flowers being separated 

 it is a matter of necessity that the pollen of one flower finds its way 

 to the stigma of another flower. From a teleological point of view 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



the intention is clearly shown. We cannot, however, speak with 

 certainty of cross-fertilization even in all these cases, except in wholly 

 dioecious plants, at least not in Darwin's understanding of the terra, 

 which is, that "cross-fertilization always means a cross hetween dis- 

 tinct plants raised from seeds." We must, therefore, he careful not 

 to include too hastily in this category monoecious plants, where the male 

 and female organs are home on distinct flowers but on the same plant. 

 II. A specially adapted or conspicuous corolla. It is these showy, 

 irregular or peculiarly shaped corollas that insects may readily be 

 observed to visit. The questions which here arise are numerous. 

 The first one to present itself is this : Has the corolla been developed 

 for the purpose of attracting insects, and is it the proof which nature 

 gives us that cross-fertilization is a necessity or that it is at least 

 favorable to the preservation of the species ? This seems to have 

 been definitely answered in the affirmative. The number of cases 

 where the insect has actually been seen to transport the pollen from 

 one plant to another, however, are few, compared with the great 

 number of species whose flowers would come under this head. In 

 this connection it must be remembered how very often the insect is 

 simply a robber. This past summer I observed, e. g., a very large 

 patch of Gerardia pedicularia, the flowers almost all being pierced at 

 the base of the corolla by bees perching on the outside and never 

 touching stamens or pistil. Now, wherever it is more convenient 

 for the insect to reach the desired substance without boring a hole it 

 is apt to be taken for a benefactor, even if it simply takes from the 

 flower without rendering any service in return. There is another 

 suggestion I would offer in regard to insect visitors. In observing 

 bees travelling to and from flowers of Kalmia latifolia I noticed that 

 very frequently pollen is thrown upon the pistil of the same flower 

 when the stamens are unfastened by the insect. I am not prepared 

 to assert, however, that such flowers proved fertile. I simply throw 

 this out as a suggestion and it should be taken for what it is worth. 

 Professor Willis made somewhat similar observations on the flowers 

 of Phacelia tanacetifolia. He describes the crawling of insects over 

 the dense cymes ; touching stamens and styles indiscriminately, and 

 probably knocking the pollen on the stigmas from the surrounding 

 anthers. 2 Further, he says in regard to Phacelia Campanula via: 



2 Contributions to the Natural History of the Flower, Jour. Linnaeu Society, 

 London, Botany, Vol. XXX, p. 55. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



'' Bees alight sometimes on the corolla, touching styles and stamens, 

 crushing them all up together with the styles, and probably causing 

 self- as much as cross-ferlilization." 3 This in spite of the fact that 

 the Mower of this plant is to all appearance well adapted to secure 

 cross-fertilization. I should not be surprised if, sooner or later, upon 

 close examination, it would be found that in many cases where this 

 adaptation to insects seems so perfect, the insect visitors aid in secur- 

 ing self-fertilization, as these observations seem to indicate. 



III. Peculiar position of stamens aad pistils. In the preceding 

 paragraph I have already briefly referred to the flowers of Kalmia 

 latifolia, perhaps the best illustration of such an arrangement. The 

 wheel-shaped corolla, with the ten pockets in which the anthers are 

 held, is sufficiently familiar to require no further description. 

 Stamens and pistil mature at the same time. The anthers are held 

 in the pockets of the corolla ; when visited by insects they are set 

 free and the pollen is thrown with considerable force from the anther 

 sacs through the orifices. As I have remarked before I have 

 observed repeatedly that pollen was thrown upon the stigma of the 

 same flower. Careful observations should decide the question, how 

 far in such cases, where there is such a peculiar arrangement in the 

 position of stamens and pistils in regard to each other, close fertiliza- 

 tion is possible. 



Even should it be impossible in any case that autogamy, or close 

 fertilization, is effected, it must be remembered that whenever a plant 

 bears many, or clusters of flowers, the chances of cross-fertilization are 

 reduced. Insects in such cases may visit many flowers of the same 

 plant, but this is 1 not cross-fertilization in Darwin's sense of the term. 



IV. Dichogamy or difference in the time of maturity of stamens 

 and pistils. This appears to me the most suggestive and interesting 

 phase of this intricate problem. From a teleological point of view, 

 i. e., if we look for a purpose, we must agree with Darwin and his 

 followers that this is one of the most remarkable adaptations favor- 

 ing cross-fertilization. Modern science insists, however, that we 

 must use inductive methods, and it is the tendency of the present day 

 to search rather for the causes than for an underlying purpose. If, 

 on the one hand, we affirm that every organ is modified to serve some 

 particular use, we cannot believe, on the other hand, that such modifi- 



3 Ibid., 'p. 57. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



cations are directly due to external factors over which the plant 

 has no control. I am aware that the principle of natural selection 

 may find its application in the most subtle cases ; at the same time 

 it requires, in this particular instance, a considerable strain to make 

 it fit. In reference to dichogamy Mr. Meehan says positively that 

 the difference between the time of maturity of stamen and pistil is 

 caused by varying degrees of temperature and that dichogamy has 

 its origin in this circumstance, "that whatever its significance, it 

 arises from no effort innate to the plant itself, but from an outside 

 force that can have but little interest in cross-fertilization." 4 It is 

 peculiarly characteristic of the present day to seek for the effect of 

 external conditions and to experiment with the modifications that can 

 be brought about by changing these. For example, Prof. Goebel says 

 in reference to cleistogamic flowers, " We do not yet know the condi- 

 tions necessary for the production of cleistogamic flowers, but it may 

 be assumed even now that this production is influenced by external 

 factors wherever a plant has the power to produce such flowers." 5 He 

 then cites experiments made with ImpaMens fulva, where cleistogamic 

 flowers are the result of poor nutrition. Accordingly, it appears at 

 least possible that experiments might give similar results in reference 

 to dichogamy. 



Attention has often been called to the fact that in plants espe- 

 cially adapted to insure cross-fertilization, there exists in almost 

 every case a possibility of self-fertilization. The above statements 

 in regard to dichogamy, if of any value, point to a different con- 

 clusion concerning the final or at least possible autogamy from that 

 which is generally accepted. It is assumed that the flower is so 

 constructed that there is every chance of a cross, provided the insect 

 appears to do the work. This failing, the arrangement is such as 

 to allow pollen to come in contact with the stigma of the same flower. 

 It is evident that in every case which seems to point towards cross- 

 fertilization it is always to a great extent a matter of chance 

 whether the visitor arrives or not, even when the adaptation seems 

 most perfect. It should be decided if cross-fertilization or autogamy 

 is the rule with every species which seems constructed so as to 

 attract insects, and this work should be done in as many different 



4 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Nov. 27th. 1888, p. 394. 



5 Goebel, Pflanzen-biologische Sohilderungen. Marburg. 1893, II Theil, 2 

 Lief., p. 363. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



localities and at different times of the year as possible, since there is 

 no doubt there are great variations possible in the fertilization of 

 flowers in the same species caused by different conditions of heat, 

 moisture, etc. 



If autogamy should in any case prove the rule we must regard 

 fertilization by aid of an insect as an exception, not to call it an 

 accident, Dichogamy probably is then in a measure due to exter- 

 nal conditions. If this is true it is simply the result of a " lagging 

 behind'' in the ripening time of either stamens or pistils, and the 

 final autogamy is the result of a subsequent " catching-up " in this 

 respect. This is, as I have said before, probably the most interest- 

 ing side of the question, and the one which will no doubt prove the 

 most satisfactory for experimental investigation. 



In conclusion I desire to make the following suggestions: — 



First: — It is evident that the study of the phenomenon of cross- 

 fertilization of flowers by means of insects is still a profitable field 

 for observation and discovery. 



Second: — The effect of external conditions in reference to dich- 

 ogamy should be the subject of critical experiments. 



Third: — Teleological explanations should be avoided as much 

 as possible, here as elsewhere, according to the spirit of modern in- 

 vestigation. 



Finally: — The relative number of cases of cross- and close-fertiliza- 

 tion should be compared, and it should be determined if cross-fertiliz- 

 ation actually takes place in all cases where this is assumed. 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee :— 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The meetings of the Academy have been held during the year 

 without any intermission, a quorum being always present even du- 

 ring the midsummer months. The average attendance has been 

 thirty- three. The verbal communications have been of interest 

 and have frequently been followed by animated discussion. The 

 speakers have been Messrs. Goldsmith, Rand, Wool man, Ryder, 

 Ives, Woodbury, Boyer, Holman, Rex, Morsel!, Morris, Dixon, 

 Leonard, Daland, Abbott, Allen, Pilsbrv, Parvin, Ball, Hopkins, 

 Vaux, Calvert, Oberholtzer, Horn, McCook, Keely, Skinner, Foote, 

 Miller, Lyman, Willcox, Cope, Mercer, Heilprin, Smock, Sommer- 

 ville, Brinton, Schumo and Miss Walter. Several of the most 

 important of these communications have been reported by their 

 authors for publication in the Proceedings. 



Since the last report 608 pages of the Proceedings, illustrated by 

 eighteen plates, have been issued, together with 114 pages and seven 

 plates of the Journal constituting Vol. IX, Part 4. The text 

 of the memoir by the late Andrew J. Parker on the Primate brain 

 has been printed and will be issued as the third part of Vol. X as 

 soon as the plates can be prepared. 



The Conchological Section has continued the publication of the 

 Manual of Conehology, the sustained value of which is testified to by 

 the undiminished subscription list, 585 pages, illustrated by 85 

 plates, nearly all of them colored, have appeared during the year, 

 while the Entomological Section and the American Entomological 

 Society have published, during the same period, 340 pages and 15 

 plates of the Entomological News and 316 pages and 6 plates of the 

 Transactions. These several issues constitute a total of 1,963 pages 

 and 131 plates, a gratifying evidence of the activity of the Publica- 

 tion Offices of the Academy. 



Thirty-nine papers have been presented for publication from 

 November, 1894, to November, 1<S95, as follows: Samuel N. Rhoads 

 6, Clarence B. Moore 3, Win. J. Fox 3, AVitmer Stone 2, Henry 

 A. Pilsbry 2, John A. Ryder 2, Theodore D. Rand 1 , Gilbert D. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



Harris 1, J. B. Ellis 1, J. B. Ellis and B. M. Everhart 1, William 

 Kennedy 1, D. D. Baldwin 1, Henry, Sutor and H. M. Gwatkin 1, 

 Arnold E. Ortmann 1, Emma Walter 1, Charles Morris 1, W. B. 

 Scott 1, Ida A. Keller 1, Thomas Meehau 1, D. W. Coquillet 1, 

 J. Percy Moore 1, Warren M. Eoote 1, Edwin Chapiu Starks 1, 

 Gerard Fowke 1, Edw. J. Nolan 1, T. D. A. Cockerell 1, Theo. 

 Holm 1. Thirty- four of these have been printed in the Proceedings, 

 two others have been accepted for publication, and the remaining 

 three, those by Mr. Moore, will form a portion of Part 4, Vol. X 

 of the Journal. 



Twenty-three members and three correspondents have been 

 elected. The deaths of fourteen members and of twelve correspon- 

 dents have been announced ; the resignations of four members, 

 Messrs. R. W. Ryerss, B. Alex. Randall, Maylaud Cuthbert and 

 H. N. Rittenhouse, have been accepted, and ten names have been 

 stricken from the roll in consequence of non-payment of dues. It 

 will thus be seen that the elections have not been sufficient to counter- 

 balance the losses and that the number of members on the roll is less 

 than at the close of the year 1894. In another and more impor- 

 tant respect the past year has not been a prosperous one for the 

 Academy, because of the loss of five of its most active members at 

 short intervals. Reference is made to the deaths of J. B. Brinton, 

 M.D., Geo. A. Rex, M.D., John H. Redfield, W. S. W. Rusch- 

 enberger, M.D. and John A. Ryder. The benefits conferred by these 

 in their several ways on the society have been recorded by grateful 

 resolutions and memoirs in the pages of the Proceedings. 



The most important administrative event of the year was the 

 signing, June 18th, of the revised articles of agreement between 

 the Academy and the American Entomological Society, by which it is 

 hoped harmonious cooperation in scientific work has been perma- 

 nently secured. 



The formation of an Anthropological Section was duly authorized 

 April 30th, and the work accomplished during the ensuing months has 

 proven the desirability of such a bond of union among those 

 interested in that department of science. 



Mr. Henry A. Pilsbry was elected to the Professorship in the De- 

 partment of Mollusca; and Prof. Heilprin having resigned the Chair 

 of Invertebrate Paleontology was immediately appointed by the 



Council to that of Geology. 

 38 




664 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The deaths of the active members before alluded to, left several 

 vacancies in the Council and Committees. Dr. Briuton was suc- 

 ceeded in the Council by Mr. Chas. P. Perot; Dr. Rex by the Hon. 

 John Cadwalader ; Mr. Redfield by Dr. Harrison Allen, while Mr. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry was elected to succeed Dr. Ruschenberger as 

 Curator. 



The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award has this year 

 reported in favor of conferring the medal and balance of the interest 

 of the fund on Prof. Karl Alfred von Zittel of Munich, in recogni- 

 tion of his distinguished services to pa-leontological science. 



The lecture room and hall of the Academy have, as heretofore, 

 been used for meetings and lectures by several scientific societies, 

 including the Geographical Club, the Botanical Club, the Delaware 

 Valley Ornithological Club, the Mineralogists' Club, Wood's Holl 

 Biological Association and the Odontographic Society. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 past year, commencing December 1st, 1894, there have been re- 

 ceived from ninety-nine societies, museums and private individuals 

 one hundred and ninety-four acknowledgments of the receipt of the 

 publications of the Academy, and from thirty-one societies, editors, 

 etc., thirty-eight notices that their publications have been forwarded 

 to the Academy, together with six applications to exchange publica- 

 tions for reports, etc., and asking for missing numbers of the regular 

 publications of the Academy. 



Eleven letters on various subjects have been received and ten were 

 written. Ten circulars and invitations to the Academy to partici- 

 pate in congresses or meetings and announcements of the deaths of 

 scientific men have been received and answered. 



During the year three correspondents have been elected and 

 notified. The deaths of twelve correspondents have been reported. 



Seven hundred and twenty acknowledgments of gifts to the 




1895.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



565 



library and eighty-four of gifts to the museum have been 

 forwarded. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The past year has been a most prosperous one for the library of 

 the Academy. The entire additions amount to 10,389. Of these 

 6,032 are volumes, 4,111 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, and 10 

 maps, photographs, etc. 



Nearly one-half of these accessions form the James Aitken Meigs 

 Library, bequeathed to the Academy, together with an important 

 pecuniary legacy, by John G. Meigs, the father of Dr. J. A. Meigs. 

 There are many works in the collection which duplicate those 

 already in the library of the Academy. These have not yet been 

 separated from the other volumes. The total of accessions also 

 includes 217 duplicates and miscellaneous works received from 

 Mr. Meehan, in addition to 182 volumes included in the statement 

 given below. 



The current growth of the library, excluding the Meigs' bequest 

 and the duplicates above alluded to, depended on the following 

 sources of supply : — 



Societies, 2,462 



I. V. Williamson Fund, . . 1,090 



Editors, 930 



Authors, 187 



Thomas Meehan, 176 



Charles P. Perot, 32 



U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, . 29 



U.S. Dept. of the Interior, . 28 



Wilson Fund, 18 



U. S. Dept. of State, .... 12 



General Appropriation, . . 12 



Geological Survey of Russia, 11 

 Tennessee State Board of 



Health, 11 



Ministry of Public Works, 



France, 10 



U. S. Treasury Dep., ... 5 

 Geological Survey of New 



Jersey, 5 



Geological Survey of Canada, 5 

 Geological and Nat. Hist. 



Survey of Minnesota, . . 4 



U. S. War Dept., 4 



Geological Survey of India, 4 

 Geological Survey of Ala- 

 bama, 3 



William J. Fox, 3 



U. S. Commissioners of Fish 



and Fisheries, 3 



Illinois State Board of Agri- 

 culture, 3 



Smithsonian Institution, . 3 




566 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



Bureau of Ethnology, U. S. 

 Dept. Interior, . . 



Bentham Trustees, Kew Gar- 

 dens, 



H. A. Pilsbry 



California State Mining Bu- 

 reau, 



Philip P. Calvert, 



Iowa Agricultural College, . 



Iowa Geological Survey, . . 



British Government, . . . 



Dept. of Mines, New South 

 Wales, 



Norwegische Commission 

 der Europiiischen Grad- 

 messung, 



Comision Geologica de Mex- 

 ico, 



British Museum, 



3 

 3 



2 

 2 

 2 



2 



U. S. Coast and Geodetic 

 Survey, 



U. S. Dept. of Labor, . . . 



Massachusetts Commission- 

 ers of Inland Fisheries, . 



Dept. of Mines, Nova Scotia, 



J. G. Whiteman, 



Guatemalan Government, . 



Illinois State Bureau of La- 

 bor, 



C. W. Ituschenberger, . . . 



Natural History Survey of 

 Illinois, 



Indian Museum Trustees, . 



H. T. Broadhurst, 



J. Percy Moore, 



B. B. Valentine, 



Kentucky Inspector of 

 Mines, 



Manchester Museum, . . . 



Anthropology, . 

 Physical Science, 

 Mineralogy, . . . 

 Encyclopedias, . 

 Helminthology, . 

 Ichthyology, . . 

 Herpetology, . . 

 Bibliography, . . 

 Chemistry, . . . 

 Geography, 



The additions to the library thus credited were assigned to the 

 several departments as follows: — 



Journals, 4,059 



Botany, 203 



Geology, 114 



General Natural History, . 86 



Entomology, 58 



Voyages and Travels, ... 43 



Medicine, 40 



Ornithology, 37 



Anatomy and Physiology, . 30 



Mammalogy, 29 



Conchology, 27 



Agriculture, 20 



The classification of the James Aitken Meigs Library is as fol- 

 lows: — 



... 18 



... 18 



... 14 



... 13 



... 12 



... 10 



... 9 



... 5 



... 3 



... 2 



Miscellaneous, 44 



Anthropology, 913 



Medicine, 708 



Literature, 656 



History and Biography, . . 628 



Anatomy and Physiology, . 535 



Journals, 382 



General Natural History, . . 184 



Religion, 172 



Philology, 160 



Philosophy, 154 



Voyages and Travels, . . . . 110 



Sociology, 104 



Fine Arts, 76 



Geography, 74 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



Entomology, 7 



Mammalogy, 6 



Mineralogy, 4 



Conchology, 2 



Miscellaneous, 18 



Physical Science, 70 



Geology, 40 



Botany, 32 



Useful Arts, 28 



Chemistry, 18 



Bibliography, 8 



5,089 



It will thus he seen that an important section of the library is not 

 strictly in place in the Academy, and, as has been already stated, when 

 carefully arranged and catalogued, a large number of duplicates will 

 doubtless be found. The gift, notwithstanding, is the most important 

 the library has received, exclusively, since the I. V. Williamson 

 Library Fund came into the possession of the Academy, and a brief 

 account of the legacy, as a matter of permanent record, may not be 

 out of place. 



Mr. John G. Meigs was born in Philadelphia in 1801. He was 

 engaged during his active life in the manufacture and sale of shoes, 

 his place of business being on the west side of Fifth Street above 

 Chestnut. He was so well regarded by his friends and customers, 

 because of his honorable dealing, as to have acquired the enviable 

 name of " Honest John Meigs. ' ' By strict attention to his work 

 and judicious investments in real estate, he laid the foundation of a 

 fortune which enabled him later to retire from the cares of business 

 life. While not himself a man of college education, he was fully 

 aware of the desirability of intellectual training. His son, James 

 Aitken Meigs, was therefore encouraged to take advantage of the 

 public school system of education, culminating in the Boy's Central 

 High School, from which he graduated in 1848. He then matricu- 

 lated in Jefferson Medical College, from which he obtained his 

 diploma as Doctor of Medicine in 1851. He was elected a member 

 of the Academy the following year, and was immediately placed 

 under those influences which were so important in determining his 

 future distinguished career. He served as Librarian from August, 

 1856, until May, 1859, when he was compelled to resign the office in 

 consequence of the increase of his professional engagements. 



After his retirement from business, Mr. Meigs and the Doctor were 

 much more intimately associated than is usually the case even with 

 father and son. The mother having died July 28th, 1870, at the 

 age of sixty 3 T ears, the two men kept house together, during the latter 

 years of their lives at No. 1408 Spruce Street, where they accumu- 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



lated the library which is now in the possession of the Academy. 

 Notwithstanding the old gentleman's lack of literary and scientific 

 training, there was a sufficient community of tastes between the two 

 to establish a close fellowship, the son's pursuits being encouraged 

 and his successes gloried in by the father. The premature and un- 

 expected death of Dr. Meigs occurred November 9th, 1879, in his 

 fiftieth year. 



Appreciative biographical notices of Dr. Meigs have been pub- 

 lished by Dr. H. C. Chapman in the Transactions of the College 

 of Physicians of Philadelphia, 3d Ser., Vol. V, and by Dr. George 

 Hamilton in the Transactions of the Medical Society of the State of 

 Pennsylvania for 1880, so that it is not necessary to dwell further on 

 the incidents of his career. The character of the library, as indicated 

 by the classification here given, is sufficient evidence of the extraordi- 

 nary catholicity of his tastes. 



After the sad bereavement, his father, with a natural desire to 

 remain surrounded by objects to which were attached such tender 

 associations, declined to part with either books or instruments. The 

 latter were carefully packed away, and the library remained just 

 as the son had left it, until the death of Mr. Meigs. 



Early in 1893 your Librarian was informed that a zealous but 

 indiscreet member of another society had assured Mr. Meigs that 

 the Academy not only did not desire possession of the library but, on 

 account of its miscellaneous character, would decline to receive it 

 were it offered. A statement of the utterly erroneous nature of 

 this assertion was immediately sent to Mr. Meigs, and in an inter- 

 view the following day he was assured that possession of at least the 

 scientific portion of the collection was earnestly desired, and that its 

 proper arrangement in connection with the Academy's library would 

 be a memorial of Dr. Meigs most in harmony with his own desire 

 and eminently fitting in view of his interest in the society and the 

 substantial benefits he had derived from his association with it. 



Mr. Meigs warmly expressed his sympathy with these views, but 

 at once stated that the library would not be given to any society 

 except on condition that it would be kept intact. His attention 

 having been called to the fact that the books were entirely unclassi- 

 fied and that their usefulness would be greatly increased if properly 

 grouped, he not only conceded this point but expressed his willingness 

 that the scientific works should be arranged in connection with the 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



appropriate sections of the main library, if the gift were made to the 

 Academy, but that before considering farther the propriety of mak- 

 ing such gift or bequest he must be assured that none of the volumes 

 would be parted with by sale or otherwise, but that, apart from the 

 conceded arrangement of the scientific works, the rest of the collec- 

 tion should be kept together permanently as the James Aitken 

 Meigs Library. This condition was accepted on behalf of the 

 Academy by your Librarian in the presence of Mr. Meigs' friend, 

 Dr. R. K. Hinton, and his housekeeper, Miss Lizzie Rogers. 



A few days later the will was made, leaving to the Academy the 

 books, scientific instruments and the sum of $20,000, one-half of 

 which is for the exclusive benefit of the library. The other half is 

 left without restriction or condition and has not yet been specifically 

 appropriated by the Council. Mr. Meigs died May 10th, 1895, and 

 the library was shortly after removed to the Academy. It is con- 

 fidently believed that the legacy depended on the agreement made 

 with Mr. Meigs regarding the custodianship of the library. It is 

 therefore held to' be incumbent on the Academy to act in conformity 

 with this understanding, although the wording of the will grants a 

 greater degree of liberty. 



The scientific portions of the James Aitken Meigs Library have 

 been placed, as far as the present supply of case-room will permit, 

 with the appropriate sections of the general library, the volumes 

 being appropriately labelled ; while the works on literature, philoso- 

 phy, history, religion, etc., have been arranged temporarily in the 

 Council room. The duplicates will ultimately be placed in the 

 main library, when the Academy will, of course, be at liberty to dis- 

 pose of the works replaced by them. 



The late John H. Redfield, as a farther evidence of his long- con- 

 tinued interest in the botanical department of the Academy, directed 

 by will the sale of his scientific library and collections, the receipts 

 to be invested for the benefit of the Botanical Section. The books 

 have been disposed of at auction. The duplicates included in the 

 Meehan gift were sold at the same time by direction of Mr. Mee- 

 han, the sum realized to be applied to the same object: the in- 

 crease of that which, by resolution of the Botanical Section, is to be 

 known as the John H. Redfield Fund. 



Through the foresight of the Corresponding Secretary a new 

 section, which cannot fail to be of importance to the Department 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



of Instruction, has been added to the library during the year. 

 It consists of a collection of lantern slides, for the purpose of 

 lecture illustration. Those now in the possession of the Academy 

 have been derived from the following sources : John G. Meigs' be- 

 quest 135, Prof. Alfred Bickmore 100, Dr. Benjamin Sharp 45, 

 Prof. E. D. Cope 26, Dr. H. Skinner 16, and Prof. D. G. Elliot 4. 

 The collection has been classified and catalogued by Dr. Sharp and 

 is now ready for use. 



Acknowledgment is again due Mr. Wm. J. Fox for the faithful 

 and intelligent discharge of his duties as assistant to the Librarian 

 during the past year. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS, 



The Curators report that the various collections in their charge 

 are in a still more satisfactory state of preservation than at the 

 time of their last annual report, while great progress has been 

 made during the year in the rearrangement and cataloguing of 

 the several departments and many valuable additions have been 

 received. 



Although the first floor of the new museum building is practi- 

 cally ready for exhibition, it has not yet been thrown open to the 

 public, as the work of arranging and labelling, which yet remains 

 to be done, would be very much hindered thereby. Mr. Clarence 

 B. Moore has presented three additional cases for the display of 

 the rich additions he has made to the Moore Archaeological Col- 

 lection, and his collections from the Florida Indian mounds and a 

 series of aboriginal pottery specimens from the mounds of Ohio and 

 Tennessee have been arranged in them. A large (day altar from 

 Ohio has been mounted in a special case, and several maps and 

 photographs, illustrating the collection, have been placed upon the 

 walls. 



The Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology having been un- 

 able to devote any time to the arrangement of the collection in his 

 department, Professor Putnam, of the Peabody Museum, Cambridge, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



has been engaged to classify and label the Mexican archaeological 

 specimens, and has already completed a portion of the work. Much 

 additional archaeological material has been transferred during the 

 year to the new building, three additional cases and six large 

 tables being provided for its reception. 



A boiler has been erected in the engine-house and the heating 

 plant of the new building is thus rendered practically complete. 



The west end of the main floor of the old museum has been 

 separated by a partition of glass and woodwork, thus forming a com- 

 modious apartment which will soon be occupied by the Entomo- 

 logical Section. New radiators have been provided for heating the 

 same, while radiators have also been placed in the rooms formerly 

 occupied by the Wm. S. Vaux Collections, east of the library gallery. 



Early in the year the entire collection of bird skins was removed 

 from the cramped quarters in the library and cellar and placed in 

 the southeast room, formerly devoted to the Wm. S. Vaux Collections, 

 which now forms an excellent study room for those engaged in ornitho- 

 logical investigation, while the adjoining room has been used as a gen- 

 eral work room for the taxidermist and others engaged in the prepara- 

 tion of specimens. The northeast room on the same floor has been 

 devoted to the use of the artists and transient workers. The basement 

 of the new building has also been fitted up for the use of the taxi- 

 dermist, and all the larger work has been done there. The transfer 

 of the west end of the main floor of the old museum to the Entomo- 

 logical Section has necessitated considerable rearrangement of cases, 

 and the removal of the osteological collections to the second floor of 

 the new building, while the mammal and fossil cases are necessarily 

 much crowded. This condition is, however, only temporary, and as 

 soon as cases can be provided the entire series of mammals will be 

 transferred to the new building, leaving ample room for the display 

 of the palreontological collections. 



Rev. Dr. L. T. Chamberlain has generously provided a second 

 fine case for the Lea Collection of Eocene Fossils, and has employed 

 Prof. G. D. Harris during the year to make a careful study of the 

 original Lea type collection, with the result that the whole is now 

 entirely rearranged on specially printed labels, and all the type 

 specimens carefully designated. 



Mr. C. W. Johnson has been engaged, also by the Rev. Dr. 

 Chamberlain, on another expedition to the Eocene formation in 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Louisiana aud Texas in the interest of the Lea Collection, and has 

 brought back a valuable series of additions. Dr. Chamberlain has 

 also had a handsome wainscoting erected in the vestibule of the new 

 building, above which are to be placed the slabs of fossil foot-prints 

 presented by the late Dr. Isaac Lea. 



A part from the preparation and arrangement of the accessions, the 

 work in the museum during the year has been mainly confined to 

 the arranging and cataloguing of the departments of Ethnology, 

 Ornithology and Mineralogy. 



In the first department, the entire collection of human crania has 

 been consistently numbered and carefully checked off in the printed 

 catalogue of the Morton Collection, a large amount of uncatalogued 

 material systematically entered, and the whole copied into the new 

 catalogue and brought up to date. 



In the ornithological collection, over 4,000 specimens have been 

 worked over on the plans previously outlined, and many additional 

 specimens mounted. All the types have been unmounted and placed 

 in air-tight cases. For this purpose, one large additional tin case 

 has been provided, and twenty large packing cases have been pro- 

 cured for the temporary storage of duplicate specimens of large water 

 birds. Fuller particulars in this department are furnished in the 

 report of the Ornithological Section. 



In cataloguing the minerals great progress has been made, nearly 

 4,000 specimens have been entered in the catalogue, aud a large 

 portion of the remainder arranged for cataloguing. 



In the department of mollusca, a large amount of new material 

 which had accumulated has been mounted, catalogued and placed 

 in the museum, while many valuable accessions have been received 

 during the year. A large amount of work has been done on the 

 identification and rearrangement of the land mollusca. 



The taxidermist, Mr. McCadden, in addition to his work in reno- 

 vating the ornithological collection, has devoted much time to the 

 mounting and preparation of new material received during the year 

 by gift and purchase, and many valuable specimens have thus been 

 placed on exhibition, especially in the department of Mammalogy and 

 Ornithology. 



The gifts of specimens during the year have been so numerous 

 that the Curators have been unable, for want of cases, to properly 

 arrange more than a few of them for exhibition. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



One of- the most important accessions of the year is a series of 

 specimens obtained by Dr. Benj. Sharp during a summer expedi- 

 tion on board the U. S. Revenue Cutter "Bear." These collections, 

 however, have just been received, and have not yet been studied or 

 prepared for presentation. . 



Dr. S. G. Dixon and Mr. H. 0. Mercer obtained, during the 

 year, additional collections of fossil remains from the Port Kennedy 

 limestone cave. These have been properly prepared, presented 

 and added to the valuable series obtained last year. 



During May and June, Mr. S. N. Rhoads made a journey through 

 the State of Tennessee in the interest of the Academy, and obtained 

 valuable collections of the reptiles, birds, mammals and mollusks of 

 this interesting region, all of which have been placed in the museum, 

 and reported upon in the Proceedings of the Academy. 



Other valuable accessions during the year have been a collection 

 of Pennsylvania and New Jersey birds, received from Samuel N. 

 Rhoads, with other small collections of birds from T. H. Mont- 

 gomery, Jr. and A. Sydney Logan. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithology Club has continued to add 

 liberally to its interesting collection of local birds. Under the ef- 

 ficient management of Mr. Jefferis, the Wm. S. Vaux Collections 

 have been largely increased and kept in most satisfactory condition. 



The botanical collection, during the past year, has been under the 

 care of Messrs. Thos. Meehan and Stewardson Brown, while the 

 Entomological Department has continued under Dr. Skinner's super- 

 vision. To all these gentlemen, the Curators desire to express thanks 

 for their valuable assistance, and also to Messrs. Schulze, Boyer, 

 Woolman and Keely, who have devoted much time to the cata- 

 loguing and arrangement of the microscopical collections. 



The Curators would also acknowledge the efficient work of their 

 assistants, Messrs. Witmer Stone and Samuel N. Rhoads, to whose 

 earnestness and fidelity the successful progress of the museum work 

 is largely due ; and they also express their appreciation of the work 

 of the taxidermist, Mr. D. N. McCadden, and the valuable assist- 

 ance of the students of the Jessup Fund, Miss Helen M. Higgins, 

 Messrs. Henry W. Fowler, H. C. Borden, Wm. J. Gerhard and 

 E. G. Vanatta. 



The interest of the general public in the museum is shown by the 

 large attendance of visitors during the year, while specialists in 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



various departments have frequently consulted the collections. 

 Specimens have been loaned to Messrs. R. Latchford, F. W. Stokes, 

 O. F. Cook, H. C. Mercer, Professors B. W. Evermann, Chas. E. 

 Bessey, W. B. Cook and R. Ridgway. 



Henry C. Chapman, 



Chairman of the Curators. 



REPORT OF THE MICROSCOPICAL AND BIOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



The meetings of the Section during the past year have been regu- 

 larly held, the attendance averaging slightly more than the previous 

 year. The best communications of the Section have been always 

 reserved for the meetings with the Academy, and consequently our 

 minute-book is not a record of all the work done. Thus, during 

 February last Dr. C. L. Leonard exhibited, under the auspices of 

 the Section, thirty lantern slides showing cell motion. Dr. Dixon, 

 Prof. Ryder, Mr. Woolman, Mr. Holman, Mr. Schumo, Mr. Keely 

 and the Recorder have made communications before the general 

 meeting in connection with the work of the Section. Before the Section 

 itself, Messrs. Woolman, Keely, Parvin, Brown, Schulze, Holman and 

 Schumo made communications of special interest. The Section 

 suffered severely in the deaths of two esteemed members, Dr. George 

 A. Rex and Prof. John A. Ryder, the former of whom was Con- 

 servator of the Section at the time of his death. Resolutions of 

 respect were drawn up, presented to the Academy and printed for 

 distribution among the members. 



Mr. F. J. Keely succeeded Dr. Rex as Conservator. 



Early in the year a committee was appointed to devise plans 

 whereby teachers of the public schools might be instructed in the 

 natural sciences. The Academy itself acting in the matter, the 

 special committee decided to co-operate. with it. 



The new rooms for the Section will probably be ready for occu- 

 pancy in the spring, and it is intended to furnish them so that there 

 will be enlarged facilities for research. 



There ai-e at present in the Section sixty members and con- 

 tributors. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



Mr. F. J. Keely, the Conservator of the Section, reports as fol- 

 lows : — 



The instruments of the Section are in a serviceable condition, new 

 spring clips on two of the smaller stands having been the only 

 repairs required. In addition to their use at the separate meetings 

 of the Section, at least four of the stands have been regularly on the 

 table at the joint meetings with the Academy, on which occasions 

 interesting slides have generally been provided by members, or when 

 this was not the case, the collection of the Section was drawn upon. 

 The collection of slides is in fairly presentable condition, those that 

 required it having received an extra ring of cement. During the 

 year the following additions have been made : — 



An arrangement for cutting sections of minute objects, devised by 

 Mr. Ryder, presented by Mr. Trenuer. 



One Welsbach Light, one Maltwood Finder. Purchased. 



One Beck Binocular Microscope, one Zentmayer Monocular 

 Microscope, one Histological Microscope, one Dissecting Microscope, 

 one Class Microscope, together with a large number of accessories, 

 including twelve objectives and 200 slides, formerly the property 

 of J. Aitken Meigs, M. D., bequeathed by his father, John G. 

 Meigs. 



One dozen mounts of selected diatoms, and one dozen strewn 

 slides of diatoms, presented by J. A. Schulze. 



Seven slides of nerves, presented by M. V. Ball. 



The following officers have been elected for the ensuing year : — 



Director, ..... Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



Vice-Director, 

 Treasurer, 

 Conservator, 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Recorder, 



John C. Wilson. 

 Chas. P. Perot. 

 F. J. Keely. 

 John G. Ptothermel. 

 M. V. Ball, M. D. 

 M. V. Ball, 



Recorder. 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



During the year 1895 specimens have been added to the col- 

 lection of mollusks from 115 persons, the accessions including a 

 large proportion of species new to the collection and a considerable 

 number of type specimens. 



Accessions of special value have been received from Mr. D. D. 

 Baldwin, who gave the types of many new species of Achatinella; 

 from W. T. Bednall, who has continued to send us rare and 

 new South Australian Chitons ; from C. F. Newcombe, a large 

 series of marine shells dredged near Victoria, B. C. ; and from 

 the late Robert Walton, whose collection was presented entire. 

 Other valuable material has been received from Prof. H. E. 

 Sargent, O. A. Nylander, O. A. Crandall, G. H. Clapp C. W. 

 Johnson, Wm. J. Fox and others. Messrs. Ford, Roberts and Van 

 Nostrand have continued to enrich our series with various new and 

 rare species as in former years. 



The Conservator has obtained in exchange for duplicate material 

 a considerable number of species new to our collection, including a 

 fine series of Transylvanian shells from E. A. Bielz, with speci- 

 mens of many of Bielz's own species; a series of Tonquiu land 

 shells from M. Ph. Dautzenberg ; a large number of North African 

 Helices from M. O. Debeaux, including many species described by 

 him ; also a full series of Mr. C. J. Maynard's species of Sbrophia. 

 The Couchological Section has acquired, by purchase, about 150 

 species of shells, all new to the collection of the Academy. 



The collection of alcoholic mollusks has been materially increased 

 by many accessions during the year, among which may be mentioned 

 the gift by Mr. J. B. Henderson, of Washington, D. C, of a series 

 of Jamaica land mollusca collected by him, and a small but 

 valuable collection of Madeira land mollusks from Rev. R. Boog 

 Watson. A specimen of Nautilus pomp! Hit* in alcohol has 

 been purchased by subscription of members of the Section and the 

 Academy. 



Work in the museum has been confined to the proper placing 

 of new material, it being deemed inadvisable to attempt any ex- 

 tensive w T ork of rearrangement until additional room can be placed 

 at the disposal of the Conchological Department. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



With the assistance of Mr. E. G. Vanatta, who has recently 

 been appointed on the Jessup Fund, the Conservator has made good 

 progress toward labelling and cataloguing specimens which have 

 accumulated during the past few years; and, with the same efficient 

 help, it is believed that all arrears of work on material of this 

 nature will be completed during the winter. 



The Conservator has been chiefly occupied in the preparation 

 of the several numbers of the Manual of Conchology; but no small 

 amount of time has been consumed in the work of identifying speci- 

 mens for conchologists and in correspondence on conchological sub- 

 jects. It is believed, however, that the large amount of new and 

 interesting material secured by this means repays for the labor and 

 time involved. 



H. A. PlLSBRY, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The usual monthly meetings of the Section have been held and 

 were well attended by its members and associates. Numerous verbal 

 communications of great interest entomologically have been made by 

 nearly all the members. The collections are in a good state of 

 preservation considei'ing the faulty cases in which some orders are 

 kept. These will gradually be replaced by safe dust- and pest-proof 

 receptacles. The library is growing rapidly, and during the year 

 four hundred and ninety- five entries have been made in the donation 

 book. A large number of insects have also been presented. The 

 present quarters devoted to the Section are entirely inadequate, and 

 it hopes soon to be able to occupy the new room set apart for it by 

 the Academy. Two members and two associates have been elected. 

 The journal of the Section, Entomological Neivs, has been success- 

 fully continued and three hundred and forty pages and fifteen plates 

 published during the year just closed. It will be continued in the 

 new year, and an illustrated edition of six hundred copies of thirty- 

 two pages per month will be printed. At the annual election held 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



December 9th the following were elected officers to serve during the 

 coming year : — 



Director, George H. Horn, M.D. 



Vice- Director, .... Charles S. Welles, 



Recorder, .... Henry Skinner, M.D. 



Treasurer, .... Ezra T. Cresson. 



Secretary, .... William J. Fox. 



Conservator, .... Henry Skinner, M.D. 



Charles W. Johnson, 



Publication Committee, 



James H. Ridings. 

 Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Botanical Section respectfully reports that the general pro- 

 gress noted in former annual reports still continues, notwithstanding 

 the severe loss sustained by the death last April of its most zealous 

 and untiring member, John H. Redfield, who had been the able 

 Conservator of the Academy's Herbarium since the formation of 

 the Section. His death renders the recommendation of former 

 years, that a permanent Conservator should be employed, still more 

 pressing. It is believed that a fund of $20,000 wouldyield enough 

 to make a fair start in this direction. Mr. Redfield perceived this 

 necessity, and generously willed that his scientific books and collec- 

 tions should be sold to form the nucleus of such a fund. To aid in 

 this laudable object some of the members of the Section organized a 

 "Redfield Memorial Herbarium Fund," to which a little less than 

 SI, 000 have been subscribed, hoping to add to it the coming year. It 

 is earnestly hoped that the Academy will lend a vigorous aid in the 

 establishment of this fund. Until the whole amount is subscribed, 

 the interest will go to the purchase of additions to the collection. 

 It has been estimated that the work of verifying, arranging and 

 fastening down specimens, now going on by the voluntary work of 

 the members of the Section, could not be completed under four or 

 five years, even though there were no new additions. The dire 

 necessity for a regularly employed official is therefore obvious. 



The Section is clear of debt and has a balance in the treasury. 

 Meetings are held regularly on the second Tuesday in each month, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



except during the three summer mouths, and matters of wide botani- 

 cal interest have been regularly discussed. Mr. Stewardson Brown 

 has been serving very efficiently as Conservator pending the annual 

 election. His report showing the condition of the Herbarium, is 

 herewith appended. 



The officers elected for the ensuing year are as follows : — 

 Director, ..... Thomas Meehan. 



Vice- Director, . 



Recorder, 



Treasurer, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Conservator, 



Charles E. Smith. 

 Charles Schaffer, M.D. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 Joseph D. Crawford. 

 Stewardson Brown. 



Thomas Meehan, 



Director. 



The Conservator of the Botanical Section reports as follows : — 

 In presenting this report for the year your Conservator wishes to 

 congratulate the Section on the general good condition of the Herba- 

 rium at the present time. 



The permanent mounting of the specimens in the general Herba- 

 rium, commenced some years ago, has been carried steadily forward 

 during the present year, largely through the untiring efforts of the 

 Director of the Section, Mr. Thomas Meehan; and we can now 

 report the work done as far as Umbelliferre. 



The additions received during the year have been 1,683 species, 

 of which 332 are lower Cryptogams, and 1,351 Phanerogams and 

 Ferns ; of the latter, 442 species are from North America, 426 from 

 tropical America, 253 from Asia, and 226 from Australia and 

 Polynesia. 



Notable among these are the following collections : — 

 245 species of Newfoundland plants received from the Howard 

 Herbarium, Cambridge ; 111 species of Northern California plants 

 received from Prof. E. L., Greene ; 425 species of Mexican plants 

 collected in 1894, by Prof. C. G. Priugle, and purchased thro.ugh 

 the liberality of some of the members of the Section ; 253 species of 

 Asia Minor plants collected by Prof. Bornmuller, and purchased for 

 the Section, and 126 species from the Azores Islands, collected in 

 1893 by Mr. C. S. Brown, and purchased for the Section. 

 39 




680 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Of these collections, some 350 species are new to the Herbarium. 



It will be seen from the foregoing that a large proportion of the 

 additions during the past year have been acquired through purchase, 

 entailing a considerable expenditure on the part of a few of the 

 members, owing to the lack of funds available for such purposes. 

 While such outlay will undoubtedly be necessary to some extent in 

 the future, yet it is hoped that by a proper system of exchanging, 

 which we expect to effect shortly, much additional material can be 

 acquired. The Section now has in hand a considerable quantity 

 of material which can be readily used for this purpose as soon as 

 adequate space is furnished for its arrangement, which time we hope 

 is not far distant. 



The attention of the Section was called to the crowded condition of 

 the present cases, in the report of the Conservator for 1894, and it 

 is hoped before the report for 1896 is made this much-needed room 

 for expansion will have been provided, and the present cases fitted 

 with doors of the best dust-proof construction. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Stewakdson Brown, 



Conservator, pro tern. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



Eight meetings of the Section have been held during the past year 

 with an average attendance of about eight members. Papers have 

 been read by Messrs. Goldsmith, Rand and Woolman. 



The additions to the cabinet, except to the William S. Vaux col- 

 lection, have not been large, but there seems to be a greater interest 

 awakened during the last portion of the year, which it is hoped may 

 continue. 



An excursion was made by the Section on May 25th, which 

 seemed to be very satisfactory to those attending it. 



The Director would urge, if means can be found for the purpose, 

 the increase of the local collection, which, he believes, could be made 

 of value. The chief expense of this would be in cases, as it is 

 probable that nearly all the specimens needed would be presented ; 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



iu fact a considerable number have been promised as soon as case- 

 room is provided. 



At the meeting of the Section, held December 23d, the following 

 officers were elected for the ensuing year : — 



Director, Theodore D. Rand. 



Vice-Director, ..... Wm. W. Jefferis. 



Conservator, ..... Wm. W. Jefferis. 



Treasurer, ...... John Ford. 



Corresponding Secretary ) _,, „ . ..„ 



, „ , " Chas. Schaffer. 



ana Recorder, ) 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The work of cataloguing and rearranging the Ornithological col- 

 lection has gone on steadily during the past year; and, although not 

 quite so many specimens have been worked over as in the previous 

 year, this has been more than compensated by the large increase in 

 the labelling and cataloguing. 



The Conservator has been enabled to devote a considerable amount 

 of his time to the work, as has also Mr. McCaddeu, the taxidermist, 

 while valuable assistance has been rendered by Mr. Henry W. 

 Fowler, Miss Helen M. Higgius and Mr. Wm. J. Gerhard. 



During the year 4,193 mounted specimens have been worked 

 over, the best of them being remounted and the types and duplicates 

 reduced to skins, and all the material not hitherto named has been 

 carefully identified and catalogued. In addition to this a large 

 number of temporary lists were copied into the regular catalogue, 

 which has now been brought up to date, while a considerable num- 

 ber of labels for specimens in the exhibition cases have been pre- 

 pared. This work for the year aggregates 4,125 labels written, and 

 9,979 entries in the catalogue. The groups renovated in the mounted 

 collection comprised the Cathartida?, Falconida?, Bubonidse, Strigida\ 

 Fringillidye, Ploceidse, Laniidse, Motacillidse, Alaudidre, Artamid: , 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



and Dicseidse, while specimens -were remounted for exhibition in the 

 Muscicapidse, Oriolidse, Dicrurida?, and Campophagidse. 



The accessions during the year have amounted to 1,020 speci- 

 mens, the most important being a collection of birds from Pennsyl- 

 vania and New Jersey, presented by S. N. Rhoads, a small collection 

 of Pennsylvania birds from Dr. Thos. H. Montgomery, a small 

 collection from Tennessee made dining May and June by Mr. S. N. 

 Rhoads, and a well-mounted collection of game birds from Mr. A. 

 Sydney Logan. A fine pair of Flamingoes has been purchased for 

 mounting, and a number of valuable specimens from the Zoological 

 Society of Philadelphia have been prepared, either as mounted speci- 

 mens, skins or skeletons. 



The southeast room on the gallery floor of the library was placed 

 at the disposal of the Section early in the year, and the entire col- . 

 lection of skins removed to it, where they are much more accessible 

 to the student ; while the enlarged quarters furnish increased facili- 

 ties for work in this department. One large tin case for the preser- 

 vation of type specimens has been provided during the year, as well 

 as twenty wooden packing cases for the temporary storage of duplicate 

 specimens of large water birds and birds of prey. 



The entire collection of skins has been examined during the year 

 and found to be in excellent condition. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has rendered valuable 

 aid to the Section in arousing a lively interest in ornithology in this 

 vicinity. It continues to hold its meetings at the Academy and to 

 contribute many valuable specimens to the collection of local birds, 

 as well as to the general collection. 



Much assistance has been rendered during the year to students in 

 the way of identifying material, etc., and specimens have also been 

 loaned to specialists. 



The work of renovating the old mounted collection has advanced 

 so far that it is hoped that it may be entirely completed during the 

 coming year, with the exception of labelling and final arrangement. 

 This cannot be accomplished until new dust-proof exhibition cases 

 are provided, and the advisability of procuring these at an early 

 date cannot be too earnestly urged. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 16th, 1895, 

 the following officers were elected : — 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



Director, . . 



Vice-Director, 



Recorder, 



Secretary, 



Treasurer and Conservator, 



Dr. Spencer Trotter. 

 George S. Morris. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 William A. Shryock. 

 Witmer Stone. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Witmer Stone, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Anthropological Section of the Academy, the formation of 

 which was authorized by votes of the Academy on April 23d and 

 30th, 1895, was organized on the evening of April 30th, Dr. Harrison 

 Allen being chosen as Chairman, Charles Morris as Secretary and 

 Treasurer. It has held meetings in May, October, November and 

 December, and has received special communications from Mr. John 

 Ford on Indian grave mounds, from Drs. Mills, Ball and others 

 on brain and skull degeneration, and from Dr. Sharp on the 

 Ethnology of Alaska and Siberia. Twenty-eight members have 

 joined the Section. A meeting for organization was held in Decem- 

 ber, at which the following officers were elected: — 



Director, . . ' . . . Harrison Allen, M.D. 



Vice-Director, ..... Dr. C. N. Peirce. 



Recorder, . * . . . . Charles Morris. 



Secretary and Conservator, . . M. V. Ball. 



Charles Morris, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 



PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports 

 that the condition of the collections that were under his charge until 

 December 1st — when his duties became associated with the Depart- 

 ment of Geology — remains much as it was at the time of the filing 

 of the last annual report. As for a number years past, the one 

 great obstacle to arrangement and classification in the deficiency 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



of exhibition- room and cases ; indeed, at the present time, there is 

 even less room than heretofore, owing to the necessary division of the 

 main hall into a section devoted to entomological interests. Only 

 with occupancy of the new hall can proper relief be expected. 



The usual spring course of lectures has followed as a continua- 

 tion of the courses of past years, and it is gratifying to be able to 

 report that the attendance lias been steadily increasing year by year, 

 the enrolled students for the past season numbering 116. Emphasis 

 is again laid on that portion of the instruction which is associated 

 with field-work, when an opportunity is given to examine practically 

 much of that which is first illustrated in the class-room. In addi- 

 tion to the regular Saturday field-parties, the course included, for a 

 limited number, an examination in the month of August of the 

 Rocky Mountain region, when the practicability of so extended a 

 class- excursion was clearly demonstrated. The region studied com- 

 prised sections of Colorado, Wyoming, Utah and New Mexico, and 

 specifically the Pike's Peak district, gold mines of Cripple Creek, 

 " bad lands," Great Salt Lake, canons of the Price, Grand and 

 Arkansas Rivers, the volcanic masses of the San Juan, etc. 



As Professor of Geology, the undersigned would respectfully 

 recommend, the disposition of the geological materials of the 

 Academy, space in the new hall, and that enough of it be given 

 for that form of display which is now a part of the method of almost 

 every new museum. A geological exhibition means not merely a 

 display of rock specimens for themselves, but illustration of the 

 dynamics and economics of the science. Therefore, sections of rock- 

 strata, models of geological structure, well and coal borings, etc., 

 are eminently necessary for a proper or modern exhibition. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Prof, of Invert Paleontology (to Dec, 1895), 



now Prof, of Geology. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY 

 AND ARCHAEOLOGY. 



The Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology reports that during 

 the current year a regular course of lectures on his branch was de- 

 livered in the Lecture Hall of the Academy. The audience was 

 large, and a growing interest was manifested in the subject. 



The collections in this department are in process of installation 

 in the new building and a portion of them is satisfactorily dis- 

 played. With proper facilities all the objects illustrating this im- 

 portant branch of natural history in possession of the Academy, 

 can now be grouped together and opened for inspection. 



D. G. Brinton, M.D., 



Professor of Ethnology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 



ZOOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that 

 during the past year he has delivered two lectures, one upon "Corals 

 and the Coral Islands," and one upon "Zoological Gardens." 



The additions to the museum during the year have been neither 

 numerous nor important. 



The course of lectures planned and mentioned in the report of last 

 year was not delivered owing to preparation for and departure 

 upon an expedition to Bering Sea, the Arctic Ocean and adjacent 

 shores. 



Permission was obtained from the Treasury Department of the 

 United States to accompany the U. S. Revenue Cutter "Bear" 

 during her cruise in the Arctic Ocean. The Aleutian and Seal 

 Islands and the northern shores of Siberia and Alaska were visited. 

 Collections were made at all points where it was possible. Collec- 

 tions of plants, birds, marine forms and native implements were 

 among the most important made. The skin of a walrus and the skins 

 of a male, female and young fur seal were obtained. For per- 

 mission to secure the skins of the fur seals the Academy is indebted 

 to the special favor of the U. S. Treasury Department. 



As the collections were not received until after the close of the 

 fiscal year, a report upon them must be deferred. 



A course of six lectures on the " Influence of the Environment 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1859. 



upon Animal Life" will be delivered in January and February, 1896, 

 and during the spring two lectures in addition will be given upon 

 the results of the Alaskan and Siberian expedition. 



Respecfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 

 Prof, of Invert. Zoology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF HISTOLOGY AND 

 MICROSCOPIC TECHNOLOGY. 



The Professor of Histology and Microscopic Technology respect- 

 fully reports that he has given laboratory instruction in microscopic 

 technic and carried on, as heretofore, original research in bacteri- 

 ology. 



The gifts of instruments and slides will be reported by the 



Biological Section. 



Samuel G. Dixon, 



Prof, of Histology and Microscopic Technology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF MALACOLOGY. 



The Professor of Malacology reports that there have been added 

 to the museum several thousand species of mollusks ; among others, 

 the types of many new forms of Polyplacophora and Achatinellidse, 

 and an alcoholic specimen of Nautilus pompilius may be mentioned. 

 The Tectibranchiata have been studied and identified, and an illus- 

 trated monograph of the group has been published. Other museum 

 work has been begun on the identification and classification of the 

 South American Bulimi. 



One lecture upon the "Protective Devices of Mollusks" has been 

 delivered. A course of five lectures upon the structure and classi- 

 fication of mollusks, and two lectures upon ' ' Economic Uses of 

 Mollusca" and " Mollusks of the Atlantic Coast" will be delivered 

 during February, March and April of the coming year. 



Respectfully submitted, 



H. A. PlLSBRY, 



Prof, of Malacology. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM 8. 

 VAUX COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections reports that 

 the raineralogical cabinet is in good order. There are a num- 

 ber of specimens which, too large to be placed in the present cases, 

 are exposed to the dust and liable to be injured. A special case 

 should be provided for them. Since his appointment as Curator 

 he has added 618 specimens to the collection, bringing the num- 

 ber up to 7,780. 



The archaeological collection is also in good condition, but no 

 additions have been made to it during the past year. 



Wm. W. Jefferis, 



Curator. 




588 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Finance 

 Committee to serve during 1896, was held with the following re- 

 sult : — 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 

 ( 'orresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, 

 Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three years, 



Finance Committee, 



Council, to serve for an unex- 

 pired term 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 



Thomas Meehan. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D.D. 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Benjamin Sharp, M.D. 



George Vaux, Jr. 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Henry A. Pilsbry. 



Henry C. Chapman, M.D. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 



Uselma C. Smith. 



William Sellers. 



Charles E. Smith. 



John Cadwalader. 



Charles Morris. 



Chas. E. Smith. 



Uselma C. Smith. 



William Sellers. 



Charles P. Perot. 



Isaac J. Wistar. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1895. 



MEMBERS. 



January 29. — R. Shirley Borden, Frank Haimbach. 



February 26. — Silas L. Schumo. 



March 26. — Edwin S. Dixon, Harry Blake Tyler, J. W. Horter, 

 M.D., Charles L. Brown, Willett E. Rotzell, M.D. 



April 80. — Frederick Prime, Sol. R. Fridenberg, Lightner Wit- 

 in er. 



May 28.— H. G. Griffith, M.D., W. J. Gillespie, M.D. 



August 27.— Chas. W. Burr, M.D. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 589 



October 29. — John M. Justice, Howard W. Du Bois, Charles ('. 

 Harrison. 



November 26. — Gulielma M. S. P. Jones, Wilfred H. Harned, 

 Seneca Egbert, M. IX, Samuel H. Gilbert, W. W. Frazier, John 

 Cadwalader, Jr. 



COKRESI'ONDKNTS. 



February 26. — P. B. Sarasiu, of Basel ; D. Estanislao S. Zebal- 

 los, of the Argentine Republic. 



April 30. — Rudolph Virchow, of Berlin. 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1895. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1895. 



ARCHAEOLOGY, ETHNOLOGY, ETC. 



Dr. M. V. Ball. Five human brains (criminal). 



Frank Chew. Collection of Indian axes and arrowheads, Maryland. 



.John G. Meigs' Bequest. Nine human crania, including five Etrus- 

 can skulls from Corneto, Italy. 



C. B. Moore. Large collection of aboriginal mound relics, including 

 implements, pottery, ornaments and human crania and skeletons 

 from central Florida. Two pre-Columbian crania of Huron-Iro- 

 quois Indians, Ontario. 



H. E. Sargent. One tray sherds pottery, Tennessee River, Ala. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp and Prof. Libbey. Ten Kanaka skulls, Sand- 

 wich Islands. 



Mammals. 



Thomas Biddle. Articulated skeleton of Hylobates m'ulleri, Sara- 

 wak, Borneo. 



Dr. S G.Dixon. Ear-bone of seal, Islesboro, Me. 



J. Edward Farnum. Mounted Cephalophus natalensis, E. Africa. 



Herman Haupt, Jr. Skulls of Arctomys and Scalops, Minnesota and 

 Illinois. 



Dr. J. M. McFarlane. Four skulls of Bangifer caribou, Quebec. 



C. B. Moore. One skin and skull of Peromyscusfloi-idanus. 



Chas. P. Perot. Tympanic bone of whale. 



H. A. Pilsbry. One mounted Sciuropterus volans, Philadelphia. ' 



Purchased. One mounted Oreammos montanvs, Cascade Mts., Wash- 

 ington (juv.). Skin and skull of Bangifer caribou, Maine. 



Mounted specimen of Alces americanus, Maine. 



S. N. Rhoads. One mounted Neotoma magister and one skin of 

 Mephitis mephitica. 



H. E. Sargent. Skull of Procyon lotor, Alabama. 



Dr. B. Sharp. Two shrews and one sea otter skin (juv.), Alaska. 



S. Thompson. Mastodon fragment, Mt. Holly, N. J. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted specimens of Zalophus 

 californianus (2), Bangifer caribou, Castor fiber canadensis (2), 

 Macropus ualabatus, Connochetes gnou, Felis leo, Dasyprocta fu/i- 

 ginosa, Tamandua tetradactyla, Dasyprocta cristata, D. varie- 

 gata, Ursus maritimus, Antilope cervicapra, Felis viverrina, Midas 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIDA DELPHI A. 591 



rufimanus, Cynocephalus anubis aud Atherura africana. Skeletons 

 of Macacus ochreatus, Paradoxurus (sp.?), Capromys (sp. ?), Ma- 

 zama temama, Kobus defassu8(2), Bisonbison, Capreolus capreolus, 

 Cervux porcinus, Oamelus bactrianus, Melursus labiatus, Vulpes 

 velox and Brethizon dorsatus. Skins of Paradoxurus (sp.?), Dasy- 

 procta (sp.?), Lemur (sp.?), Macropu* (sp.?), Capromys (sp.?), Dasy- 

 procta acouchy, Mazama temama (2), Kobus defassus (2), Bison 

 bison (juv.) aud Vulpes velox. Skulls of Dasyprocta fuliginosa, 

 Hapale aurUa, Tamandua tetradactyla, Dasyprocta cristata, D. 

 variegata, Mazama temama aud Cynocephalus anubis. 



Birds. 



W. L. Baily. One Acadiau owl skin, Peuusylvauia. 



A. L. Buck waiter. One parrot. 



Mrs. M. J. Chase. Nine mouuted specimens and two skins, Cali- 

 fornia. Oue hundred and eighteen skius, mostly Trochilidaz. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Forty-one mounted birds aud 

 seven nests and sets of eggs. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. Mouuted Meleagris gallopavo, Virginia. 



Miss Irma F. Hering, One mounted Olor columbianus. 



In exchange. One skin of Nyctea nyctea, Greenland. 



A. Sydney Logau. Forty-eight mouuted specimens of game birds. 



T. H. Montgomery, Jr. Seventy -six skins, Pennsylvania and Maine. 



George S. Morris. Eighteen skins. 



Purchased. Tweuty-six skins, California. Two skins Phamicopterus 

 ruber, two skins Ardea ccerulea. 



S. N. Rhoads. Six hundred aud eighty skius of Pennsylvania and 

 New Jersey birds. Three skins Dendragapusfrankliui. 



Tennessee Expedition ; collected by S. N. Rhoads. Fifty-eight bird 

 skius. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted specimen of Psophia 

 viridis. Skius of Psophia viridis, Zenaida castanea, Dominicella 

 rubra, and Psittacus erithacus. Skeletons of Strut/do camelus, 

 Argusianus argus (2), Buteo vulgaris. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



James Bradley. Oue Dermochelys coriacea, Asbury Park, N. J. 



I. N. DeHaveu. One Amblysloma punctatum, Ardmore, Pa. 



J. Hope. One Naia bunyara. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Fifteen reptiles and batrachians, Florida. 



S N. Rhoads (Fx p. to Tennessee). Two hundred and sixty-six speci- 

 mens Reptilia and Batrachia, Kentucky aud Tennessee. Fifteen 

 reptiles, Florida. Seventy-nine specimens, Somerset Co., N. J. 



Witmer Stoue. Four turtles, Chester Co., Pa. 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Dr. R. R. Taylor. One rattlesnake, W. Virginia. 



. One Menopoma allef/heniensis. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Alcoholic specimens of Stemo- 

 therus derbianus, Uromastix hardwickii, Python molurus, Naia 

 bungara (2), Varanus nUotieus, Trachycephalus marmoratus and 

 Hyla arborea. 



Fishes. 



Win. E. Meehau. Thirteen deformed Sal/no fontinalis, U. S. Fish 



Commission, Allen town, Pa. 

 Dr. T. D. Myers. Two Hybopsis bHguttatus, Monocaey River, Md. 

 Messrs. Pilsbry and Johnson. Achirus lineatiis, Lake George, Fla. 

 . Lophius pisGatorius, lower Delaware River. 



Crustacea. 



Geo. H. Clapp. Three specimens of Cambarus virilis, Canada. 

 John Thompson. One Limulus polyphemus, Cape May, N. J. 



Insects. 



('. W. Johnson. One case of Diptera, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



Miss A. H. Miller. Hornet's nest, Lawreuceville, Va. 



8. N. Rhoads. Three Cychrus, one Chalcophorm, New Jersey and 



Tennessee. 

 Dr. H. Skinner. One case of Lepidoptera, Pennsylvania and New 



Jersey. Three Lepidoptera. 

 Miss J. D. Winsor. Three Beetles. 



Lower Invertebrates. 



Henry Dixon. Three trays Diploria cerebriformis, Bermuda. 

 .John Ford. One Escharella variabilis (Inv.), Ocean City, N. J. 

 ( lorn. Forsyth, U. S. N. Two Brlssus pectoralis, Bahamas. 

 C. W. Johnson. One Melitodes ochracea, Tonga Isl. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



A. A. Alexander. One Ammonites placenta, Lenola, N. J. 



W. W. Jefferis. One Montieulipara lycoperdon, Glens Falls, N. V. 



Louis Woolman. Seven trays, Greenwich, N. J. 



Recent Moi/ltjsca. 



Anastasio Alfaro (National Museum of Costa Rica). Seventy-two 



specimens, Salinas Bay, Costa Pica. 

 Dr. Harrison Allen. Hyalina arborea, Nantucket Island. 

 Mrs. Geo. Andrews. Land shells, Black Mrs., with types of two new 



species. 




1895.1 NATUBAJ, SCIENCES OF PHILAPEJ,PHTA. 593 



A. \Y. Anthony. Five species (alcoholic). 



I). I). Baldwin. Large collection of Achatinellidce, with types of 



thirty-five new species and eleven species in alcohol. 

 E. A. Barber. Helicodonta obvoluta, England (alcoholic). 

 Mrs. Beamau. Nine species West Mexican marine shells. 

 W. T. Bednall. Twenty-nine species (marine), South Australia. 



E. A. Bielz (in exchange). One hundred and sixty-two species, 

 Transylvania. 



F. E. Blanes. Cuban Helices in alcohol. 



H. Claj^ Borden. Physa, Pa.; Helix aspera, banana bunch (alcoholic). 

 Chas. S. Boyer. Ostrcea, Japan. 



B. Buckingham. Two species, Bermuda. 



J. H. Campbell. Specimens of Acanthochites. 



Mrs. G. W. Carpenter. Forty-three species of marine shells. 



J. E. Chilberg. Polygyra townsendiana, living. 



Geo. H. Clapp. Nine species, living Vitrina limpida. 



Conchological Section. One hundred and twenty -eight species (pur- 

 chased) 



M. Cossmann (in exchange). Fourteen species of laud and fresh- 

 water shells. 



P. Z. Cox (in exchange). Two species Zaila, E. Africa. 



O. A. Crandall. Twenty-two trays of Physa; Texan land shells. 



Jas. Crawford. Sixteen species, South Africa. 



W. H. Dall. Twei)ty-two species. 



Ph. Dautzenberg (in exchange). Thirty species of laud shells, 

 Tonquin. 



Rev. A. Dean. Four species, African ; three American. 



O. Debeaux. Fifty species of North African land shells, in exchange. 



W . H f De Camp. Two species of fresh- water shells. 



J. M, Delaney. Specimens of Bulla ovulum. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. Four species, Maine. 



Dr. C. S. Dolley. Five species of land mollusks, Italy. 



Mrs. H. E. Dwight. Five species marine shells. 



John Ford. Forty-two species. 



W. J. Fox. Twenty-three species, West Virginia, and other speci- 

 mens. 



Mrs. E. M. Gaylord. Specimens of Ghama pellucida. 



Dr. W. D. Hartman. Melania corporosa. 



Chas. Hedley. Specimens of land shells, Australia. 



J. B. Henderson. Nineteen species of Jamaica land shells in alcohol. 



A. A. Hinkley. Ten species, Strepomatidce. 



Geo. A. Hubbard. Strobilops from Minnesota. 



Dr. W. E. Hughes. Polygyra dentifera, 'Canada. 



V. W. Hutton. Specimens of Chiton sinclairi. 



J. E. Ives. Three species. 



W. W. Jefferis. Campeloma and Unio, Ft. Edward, N. Y. 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



C. W. Johnson. Twenty-six species. 



I. A. Lapham. Specimens of Pomaiiopsis dnmmatiensis. 



F. R. Latchford. Collection of Canadian mollnsks. 



Roberts Le Boutillier. Ostrcea virginiana, near Boston. 



Geo. Lichtenthaler. Lucapina and Lucapine/la in alcohol. 



Geo. T. Marston. Four species of fresh- water shells, Wisconsin. 



C. J. Maynard (in exchange). Sixty-six trays of Cerion. 



D. N. McCadden and Dr. \V. E. Hughes. Seven species of Virginian 

 land shells. 



J. D. Mitchell. Undo mitehelli, Mamma tampaensis and Tellium 



mitchelli. 

 Wm. Moss. A new Flammtdiaa from New Zealand, and other 



shells. 

 Miss K. Musson. One species of Helix. 

 C. F. Newcombe. Eighty species of marine shells dredged near 



Victoria, B. C. 

 Dr. E. J. Nolan. Helix pomatia and H. arbustorum, Bavaria. 

 A. H. Norton. Three species. 



O. A. Nylander. Collection of shells from northern Maine. 

 H. A. Pilsbry. Collection of Planorbes, mainly from Western and 



Southern States ; several species of laud aud marine mollusks. 

 John Ponsonby (in exchange). Thirty-seven species of land shells 



from Haiti and South Africa. 

 D'Abbe Provancher. Eight Canadian species. 

 S. N. Rhoads. Mollusks from Washington and Pennsylvania. 

 John Richie, Jr. Four trays of shells. 

 S. R. Roberts. Several species of land shells. 



E. W. Roper. Types of Patella kermaclecensfe; several land mollusks. 



F. A. Sampson. Pomaiiopsis intermedia, California, and four species 

 land shells (alcoholic). 



H. E. Sargent, Fifty-five species of shells, Alabama aud Minnesota; 



five species in alcohol. 

 M. Schepman. Marine shells from the Bahamas. 

 Morris Schick. Seven species of aquatic mollusks. 

 Dr. B. Sharp. Twenty-five species. 

 Dr. H. Simroth. Soft parts of Doreasia alexandri. 

 U. C. Smith. Numerous Jamaica land shells. 

 Fr. Steams. Twenty -two species of Japanese mollusks in alcohol ; 



one species, Oahu. 

 R, E. C. Stearns. Five species. 

 W. Stone. Planorbis dilatatus, Pennsylvania. 

 L. H. Streng. Campeloma and Bytfdnia, Michigan. 

 S. H. StupakofT. Four species, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

 H. Suter. New Zealaud and Tasmaniau mollusks. 

 E. R. Sykes. Seveu species of marine mollusks. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59-5 



U. S. Department Agriculture. Am/nicola, Tryouia, BythhuUa, and 



Fluminicola from Nevada and "Death Valley." 

 E. G. Vanatta. Ten species of shells. 

 H. D. Van Nostrand. Three species of Cerion; eleven species of 



marine shells, Japan. 

 Bryant Walker. Several Michigan mollusks. 

 Robert Walton. Four hundred and fifty species. 

 R. B. Watson. Collection of Madeira mollnsks in alcohol. 

 G. W. Webster. Strobilops, Florida 



A. (J. Wetherby. Land mollusks, Tennessee and North Carolina. 

 Chas. Le Roy Wheeler. Several mollnsks from Cape May. 

 Geo. Williamson (in exchange). Collection of Louisiana mollusks. 

 Willard M. Wood. Zonites, San Francisco, Cal. 

 L. Woolman. Two species, fresh-water mollusks, New Jersey. 

 Purchased by subscription. Nautilus pompilius L., in alcohol. 



Plants. 



Mrs. Baitol. Bryophyllum calycinum and Bougainvillea glabra, 

 cultivated. Florida. 



Geo. M. Beringer. Twenty-nine species of Eucalyptus, cultivated in 

 California. 



Walter Deane. Lemna valdiviana, Randolph, Mass. 



Dr. Geo. E. Davenport. Aspidium simulatum and Aspidium cris- 

 tatum x marginale) Massachusetts. 



J. B. Ellis. Century Thirty-three, North American Fungi. 



Dr. E. L. Greene. One hundred and eleven species, northern Cali- 

 fornia plants. 



Dr. H. A. Greene (through Geo. M. Beringer). Thirty-three species 

 North American Marine Algte. 



Wm. Hacker. Forty-eight species North American plants. 



Herbarium of Harvard University. Two hundred and forty-five 

 species of New Foundland plants collected by B. L. Robinson and 

 H. Schrenk. 



Roberts Le Boutillier. Fruit of Entada scandens from Jamaica. 



Thomas Meehau. Ravenel's Fungi Caroliniani Exsiccati, Fascicles 

 IV and V. Sixty-live species of North American plants. Two 

 hundred and fifty-three species of Asia Minor plants collected 

 by Bornmiiller ; four hundred and twenty-five Mexican plants col- 

 lected by C. G. Pringle ; one hundred and twenty-six species of 

 Azores Island plants collected by C. S. Brown. 



Mrs. Potts. Two hundred and fifty-three species of plants collected 

 in Asia Minor by Bornmiiller. 



John H. Redfield. Seven species of North American plants. 



Dr. Chas. Schaffer. Two hundred and fifty-three species of Asia 

 Minor plants collected by Bornmiiller. 

 40 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Uselnia C. Smith. Seeds of Entada scaiidens from Jamaica and one 



hundred species of plants from Jamaica. 

 Charles E. Smith. Two hundred and fifty-three species of Asia 



Minor plants. 

 Baron Ferdinand Von Muller (through Thomas Meehan) . Eleven 



species of Australian plants. 



MINERALS AND ROCKS. 



H. C. Borden. Seven specimens of Pyrite, French Creek, Pa. 



L. T. Chamberlain. One Calcite, Alabama River, Ala. 



A. H. Fisher. Two trays, Obsidian and Lazurite. 



Dr. E. Goldsmith. One Dolomite with Quartz, Belvidere, N. J. 



E. A. Groth. One Garnet, Fairmount Park, Pa. 



H. Haupt, Jr. Fifteen specimens, United States and Russia. 



H. G. Ives. One Limonite, Chester Co., Pa. 



Miueralogical and Geological Section. Muscovite, Chester Co., Pa. 



Theo. D. Rand. One each, Talc and Uranophaue, Pennsylvania and 



Georgia. 

 Lieut. Ruschenberger, U. S. N. Native Copper, Coquimbo, Chili, 

 .las. F. Sullivan. Petrified wood, 2 spec, Gibbsboro, X. J. 

 Students Miueralogical Club. Twenty-four specimens, Pennsylvania. 

 William S. Vaux Fund. One hundred and eighty-two specimens for 



YVm. S. Vaux collection of minerals. 




1895.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



597 



INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 



1895. 



Abastor 407 



Abies 418, 426, 429, 545 



Acanthis 488 



Acanthostigma 414 



Accipiter 464, 478 



Acernyia 311,884 



Acer 484, 48.". 



Achsetoueura 810, 388 



Achatinella .... 214-220, 287 

 Achatinellastrum . . 215 



Achatinellidae . . 214, 237, 28s 



Aciuta 337 



Aclesia 848 



Acris 896 



Acroglussa 833 



Acrosticta 337 



Acrotoxa 337 



Actseon 122, 123 



Actitis 474 



Adenostylum 426 



Adrana 47 



.Egeon 197 



^gialitis 474, 505 



Agaronia 122 



Agelaius 487 



Agkistrodon 393, 405 



Aglaia 251, 252 



Agromyza ....... 318, 340 



Agromyzidse 839 



Ailanthus 416 



Aix . . . ' 468 



Alaetaga 278 



Alcedinidse 482 



Alle 504 



Alligator 403 



Allograpta 829 



Amastra .... 215,228-284,237 



Amauropsis 84 



Amblystoma . . 382, 402, 406, 407 



Amblystomidse 402 



Amerosporium 43.5 



Ammodramus 489 



Ampelidfe 493 



Ampelis 464, 498 



Amphibia . . .' 394 



Amphicnepb.es 336 



Amphisphaeria .21, 23, 26, 418 



Amphiuma 406 



Amyda 404 



Anas 467, 468 



Anatidse 467 



Aneilla 115-119, 122-129 



Andrenosoma 324 



Anhinga 381, 466 



Auhingidie 466 



Anisopogon 328 



Auolis 404 



Anomia .... 100, 104, 114-124, 



128, 129 



Anopheles 319 



Anseres 467 



Anthomyia 886 



Anthomyidie 335 



Anthostomella 424 



Anthrax 325, 326 



Anthus 49S 



Antrostomus 484 



An lira 894, 405, 407 



Apex 215, 219 



Aplysia 347-350 



Aposphaeria 431 



Apporhais 145 



Aquila 464, 479 



Architectonica 122 



Archytas 332 



Arctostaphylos 430 



Arctotheriiim 447 



Ardea 472 



Ardeida* 471 



Ardella 472 



Arenaria 508 



Argis 181 



Argyra 328 



Argyramoeba 32-i 



Aromochelys 384, 406 



Arundinaria 42! 



Asclepias 42S 



Ascochyta 488 




598 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895- 



Asilidse 323 



Asilus 304,324 



Aspidonectes .... 386, 404, 406 



Asplenium 434 



Aster 426, 550, 551 



Asteroma 431 



Astacus 178 



Astarte 48 



Astyris 74 



Asvndetus 328 



Atalapha 32 



Athoracophorus 237 



Atoraosia 323 



Atrophopalpus 333 



Atrophopoda . . .' 333 



Atys 127 



Auriculella 214 



Avicula 117 



Avthya . . . 468, 469 



Baeeha 330 



Baccharis 438 



Bascanion 388, 391 



Bassariscus 447 



Batrachia 447 



Bar tram ia 474 



Bela 64 



Belosepia . . 116, 118, 120, 122-124, 



128, 130 



Belvosia 312, 332 



Bembeciuus 266 



Bembex 351, 354-362 



Bembidula 351-354 



Bibio 319 



Bibionida? 319 



Bicyrtes 266 



Bigelovia 440 



Bison 244-248 



Bithynis 173 



Bittacomorpha 320 



Blarina 381, 382 



Boisduvalia 547 



Bombylidse 325 



Bombyliua 326 



Bonasa 475 



Borboridse 340 



Borophagus 449 



Borsonia 63 



Botaurus 471 



Botryodiplodia 433 



Botryosphaeria 432 



Bovi'sta 414 



Braehycoma 332 



Brachydeutera 338 



Brachysporium 440 



Branta 470, 471 



Braseuia 287, 288 



Bubal us 247 



Bubo 480 



Bufo 39li 



Bufonidaj 396 



Bulbifusus 71 



Bulimella 97, 117, 122, 127, 215, 



217 



Bulla 122 



Buteo 479 



Byssoarca . 114, 120, 123, 125-130 

 Cadulus .... 116, 119, 123, 127 



Csenia 339 



Calamagrostis 544 



Calamita 397 



Oalcarius 50o 



Calidris 503 



Calliphora 33.5 



Calliste 251, 252 



Calobata 306, 336 



Calospbaeria 26 



Calospiza 251,252 



Calyptrophorus 97, loo, 114, 115, 

 118, 130, 14"), 147, 159 



Campanula 544 



Campephilus 484 



Cainpsicnemus 328 



Carnptoueura 337 



Cancellaria 65-67, 97, 114, 122, 123, 



127, 130 



Cancer 178, 182 



Canis 43 



Capnodium 414 



Caprimulgidte 4S4 



Careella 333 



Cardinalis 491 



Carex 544 



Caricea 335 



Caricella 67, 68, 114, 116, 117, 119, 



12.-, 



Carnivora 447 



Carpbophis 393 



Carphotricha 337 



Carpodaeus 4^s 



Cassidaria 114, 116, 119 



Caslauea 431,435 



Castilleia 423 



Castor 447 



Catbarista 477 



Cathartes 477 



Catbartid;e 477 



Cecidoinyida 1 319 



Celastrus 432 



Celtis 421 



Cenangella 429 



Cenangium 428 



( Jeophloeus 483 



Cepphus 502, 504 



Cerastoma 417 



Ceratopogon 308, 320 



Ceratostomella .... 33,30, 418 




1895.] 



NATIJKAT, SCIENCES <>K PHILADELPHIA. 



599 



Ceraturgus 



Cercospora 438, 



Ceria 



Cerion 206- 



Cerithium . 7!), 114, 118, 120, 



145, 



Ceronia 



Cerosporella 



Certhia 



( erthiida^ 



Ceryle 



Chsetoglossa 



Chaatoinium 



Chsetopsis 337, 



Chsetosphseria 



Cbietura 



Charadriidae 



Charitonetta 



Chelidon 



Chelonia 383, 403, 



Chelydra 



Chelvdrida? 



Chen 470, 



Cherophilus 178, 



Chironomus 



Chironomyidse 



Chlorops .' 318, 



Chlorosplenium 



Cboudestes 



Chondrotus 



Chordeiles 



Chorophilus 



Chortophila 



Chrysemys 



Chrysodomus . 74, 123, 124, 



Chrysogaster 



Chrysomyia 



Chrysopila 



Chrysops 



Cbrysotus 



Ciboria 



Cibota 



Cimbiola 



Circus 



Cladosporium 



Clangula 469, 



Clathurella 



Clavilithes . . 78, 74, 113-121, 



Cleigastra . . . 

 Clista . . 



Clivicola . . . . 



Clytiomyia . . 

 Cnemidophorus 



Coccyges . . . 



Coccyzus . . . . 



Cochlearia . . . 



323 

 439 

 33] 



-1210 



121, 

 147 

 52 

 438 

 499 

 499 

 482 

 333 

 20 

 338 

 21 

 484 

 474 

 469 

 492 

 406 

 386 

 386 

 503 

 182 

 320 

 320 

 339 

 429 

 489 

 407 

 484 

 397 

 336 

 406 



127, 

 128 

 829 

 335 

 323 

 321 

 328 

 428 

 122 

 67 

 478 

 439 

 503 

 64 



125, 

 130 

 336 

 333 

 492 

 333 

 386 

 482 

 482 

 544 



117, US, 123 



Ccenosia 335, 



Colaptes 



Colin us 



Coluber 382, 391, 



Colubridse 



Columbigallina 



Colymbus 



Compsomyia 



CompsothlypiH 



Coniothecium 



Conopidae 



Conops 



Contopus 485, 



Conurus 464, 



Conus 55, 114- 



Corbula 52, 97, 103, 118-180, 

 Cordyluridae .... 

 Cornulina . 

 Corn us . . . 



Corvidae 



Corvus 486, 504, 



Cottida? 



Crangon . . . . 174-181, 190 

 Crangonidse .... 178, 174, 

 Crassatella . . 48, 49, 112, 114- 



14o, 



Crassiseta 



Crataegus 



Cricetodipus .... 270, 271 



Crocodilia 



Crocodilus 



Crocuta 448, 



Crotalidaa 



( 'rotalophorus 



Crotalus 



Cryptobranchidae 



Cryptobranchus .... 408, 



Cryptosj)hferia 



Cuculidaa 



Cuculbea 4o, 145 



Cucurbitaria 



Culex 



Culicidaj 



Cuterebra 



Cyauocitta 



Cylichnella 



Cylindrosporium 



Cymbiola 



Cyprtea 



Cyrtopogon 



Cytherea . . 97, 114-116, 118, 

 123, 124, 128-180, 146, 147, 



Cytoplea 



Dactylomyia 



Dafila 



Dalmania 



Dasyllis 



Degeeria 



886 

 483 



47--) 

 407 



476 

 465 

 335 



49", 

 488 

 881 

 881 

 486 

 480 



-129 

 159 

 836 

 12.1 

 r,44 

 486 

 505 

 41(1 



-196 

 193 



120, 

 147 



482 



408 

 105 

 44U 

 898 

 405 

 393 

 403 

 406 



27 

 482 

 -147 

 420 

 319 

 819 

 381 

 486 



54 

 435 

 122 



78 



120, 

 252 

 432 

 329 

 468 

 331 

 324 

 334 




600 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



Dendroica 464, 495, 496 



Deutalium . 97, 113, 114, 116, 122, 

 123, 125, 126, 128, 130, 147, 159 



Deroniyia 323, 324 



Desrnognatbidse 400 



Desinognathus 382, 400 



Dexidre 334 



Deyeuxia 415 



Diacblorus 321 



Diadophis 405 



Diaphorus 328 



Diatrypella 27, 426 



Dichjeta 338 



Dicranomyia 320 



Didelphys 381 



Didymella 421 



Didymosphseria 421 



Didymotricbia . 21 



Diemyctylus . . . .381, 400, 405 



Dienoplus 531 



Dillwynella '.84, 85 



Dilophus 319 



Diospyros 441 



Diostraehus 328 



Dipalta 325 



Diplarthra 447 



Diplodia 422, 432, 433 



Diplodina 434 



Diplosis 319 



Dipodida- 270-286 



Dipodomys 270, 272 



Dipus 270, 271, 272 



Discosia 29 



Diwturtio . . . 114, 116, 118, 119, 



122-129 



Ditrupa 122 



Dizoniaw 323 



Doliehogaster 325 



Dolichouyx 437 



Dolichopodid;e 327 



Dolichopus 327, 328 



Doridium 252 



Doris 348 



Dothidella 427 



Dotbiorella 431,432 



Draba 544 



Drillia 59-61, 116 



Drosophila 317, 339 



Drosophilidse 339 



Drvas 543 



Dryobates 464, 482, 483 



Duplicaria 429 



Eburnella 215 



Ectopistis 475 



Edentata 447 



Egeon 182 



Eleanoides 381,464, 478 



Elanus 478 



Elepbas 447 



Elotherium 279 



Elymus 419 



Empidye 327 



Empidonax . . . .381, 382, 486 



Emyidae 383 



Euclimatoceras 45 



Endopacnys . . 116, 118, 124, 129 



Engystoina 382, 396 



Engystomidae 396 



Eusiua 337 



Eutoptychus 270, 284 



Ephydra 339 



Ephydridse 338 



Epilobium 437 



Equus 447, 449 



Erato 122 



Erax 324 



Ereuneres 473 



Erigeron 544 



Eriophorum 544 



Erioptera 320 



EriMinatura 469 



Eristalis 330 



Euantha -">^4 



Euaresta 337 



l 1 Aicheilodoi) 63, 12^ 



Eucyphidea 173 



Euhybus 327 



Eumeces 386 



Euphyla 120 



EuploteB 168 



Eurosta 337 



Euspongus 523 



Eutypella 425, 426 



Euxesta 337 



Evotomys 382 



Exoprosopa 325 



Exorista 332 



Faleo 464, 479, 504, 505 



Faleonidte 478 



Farancia 407 



Faseiolaria 122 



Felis 449 



Fimbria 349 



Flabellum 123 



Fomes 413 



Fratercula 504 



Fraxinus .... 416, 425, 426, 431 



Fridericia 341-345 



Fringillida- 488 



Fucellia 336 



Fulica 473 



Fusarium 441 



Fusicoccum 432 



Fusus 61, 69, 71, 72, 116, 119, 122- 



125, 130, 147 

 Galeoscoptes 498 




1895.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'H 1 I. A DRUPH f A . 



601 



Gallinse 475 



Gallinago 47H 



Galliuula 47:; 



Gastridium L22 



Gastropoda 53 



Gavia 503 



Gaza 84 



Geaster 41.~> 



Geouiyida> ..... 270-286, 339 



Geotblypis 381, 4!»7 



Gerardia 558 



Gerou 326 



Gladiolus 435 



Glaucionetta 469 



Glires 447 



Gloeosporium 485 



Glyceria* 545 



Glyphocrangon 174 



Gnamptopsilopus 829 



Gnophomyia 820 



Gouia 882 



Gorytes 517-539 



Graudiuia 413 



Grindelia 439 



Gruidse 472 



Grus 472 



Gryphtea '. 142 



Gutierrezia 434 



Gymnodexia 315, 834 



Gymuoprosopa 332 



Gymnopterus 328 



Gymnoptychus 286 



( JyrmophHus 401 



Habia 491 



Haldea 407 



Haliaeetus 479 



Halteria 168 



Harpornyucbus 498 



Helmiutherus 494 



Helminthophila 381, 464, 494, 495 



Helianthus 423 



Helicobia 317, 334 



Helicter 237, 239, 240 



Helicteres 238 



Helinaia 494 



Heliscomvs 286 



Helophilus 330, 331 



Flemerodromia 327 



Hemidactylium 407 



Hemipentb.es 325 



Hendersonia 433 



Hermetia 321 



Herodiones .' . 471 



Herpetodryas 407 



Herpotriohia 21, 415 



Heterochroa 306, 339 



Heterodon 393, 407 



Heteromvida? 270-286 



Hibiscus 438 



Hilara 327 



Hippelates 339 



Hippoboscidie 840 



Hirmoneura 325 



Hirundiuidai 492 



llogardia 2(54 



Holcocephala 328 



Holopogou 323 



Homalomyia 885 



Honio 446 



Horuostegia 427 



Hoplisus 525, 582, 587 



Hybos 327 



Hydrellia 338 



Hyla . . . 381, 397-899, 405, 407 



Hylidae 896 



Hypostena 813, 334 



Hypoxylon 27, 426 



Hysteriuni 429 



leteria 381, 497 



Icteridte 487 



icterus 487 



Ictiuia 478 



Iguanidse 386 



Impatiens 560 



Fxothraupis 252 



Johusouia 316, 334 



Jordania 410 



Juuco 490 



Jurinia 332 



Kalmia 558 



Kiuosternou 384 



Labiella 287 



Lagopus 503, 505 



Lammella . . . 215, 227, 228, 237 



Lanidre 493 



Lauius 493 



Laphria 824 



Lapbystia 323 



Laplysia 347-850 



Lapparia. . . . 116, 117, 120, 130 



Laridpe 465 



Larra 266 



l.arus 465, 503, 504 



Lasiosphaeria 21 



Latirus 71, 103, 113, 116, 117, 119, 

 123, 124, 126, 128, 129, 130 



Lauxauia 338 



Leda . 46, 119, 123, 126, 128, 180, 



147 



Lepidopbora 326 



Leptachatina . . . 214, 237, 238 



Leptidc? 323 



Leptis 323 



Leptoda 334 



Leptogaster 304, 328 



Leptosphseria 421, 428 




602 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



Lepus 241-243 



Lessingia 



Lestiphorus 



Letendrwea 



Leucomelina 



Leucopis 



Levifusus . . 69, 70, 103, 126, 



Ligusticum 



Limicolse 



Limnophila 



Lininophora 



Linosina 



Liopeltis 



Liquidambar 



Lispe 



Lobioptera 



Loewia 



Louchjea 



Loncn;eid;e 



Longipennes 



Louicera 



Lophiostonia .... 20, 41!), 



Lophodytes 



Lotus 



Loxia 382, 



Lucilia 



Lucina 



Luuulites 



Luzula 



Lychnis 



Lyeoperdon 



Lygodesmia 



Lynx . . 



Machyerodus 



Macrochires 



Maeroelemys 



Macrosporium 439, 



Mactra 97, 159, 



Malaclemys .... 403, 404, 



Mallophora 



Mallota 



Mangilia 62, 



Marginella 67,116, 



Marsonia 



Martesia 53, 



Masicefa 



Masiphya 303, 



Mastodon 



Maynardia 



Medeterus 



Megalonyx 



Megascops 



Megastizus 



Melanconium 



Melanerpes 



Melauomiua . . 

 Melanopsannna 

 Meleagris . . . 



381 

 548 

 523 

 415 

 335 

 339 

 129 

 414 

 473 

 320 

 335 

 340 

 407 

 428 

 335 

 339 

 333 

 338 

 33S 

 405 

 441 

 420 

 407 

 437 

 48S 



21, 22, v 416, 



147 

 123 

 544 

 544 

 414 

 414 

 448 

 448 

 484 

 381 

 440 

 251 

 406 

 324 

 330 

 116 

 123 

 436 

 114 

 332 

 309 

 447 

 206 

 328 

 447 

 480 

 266 

 436 

 483 

 417 

 416 

 475 



Melogramma 420 



Melospiza 490 



Meuobranchus 400 



Mephitis 447 



Meretrix 50 



Merganser 407 



Meromachrus 330 



Meromyza 339 



Merula 501 



Mesalia 80, 114, 116, 119, 



121-128, 146 



Mesogramma 329 



Metasphaeria 423 



Microbembex 351,363 



Mierochtetina 334 



Microdon 32!) 



Micropezidse 336 



Micropodidse 484 



Mierotus 381 



Midaid;e 325 



Midas 3.25 



Milesia 331 



Miltogramma ".32 



Mimus 49,s 



Mitra 122 



Mniotilta 494 



Muiotiltidae 494 



Modiola 4ii 



Mollisia 42S 



Molothrus 487 



Monedula . . . 351-354, 303-372 



Monoptygraa 122 



Motaciliidre 498 



Murex 74, 75, 122 



Muridse 281 



Musea 335 



Muscidse 335 



Mustela 447 



Mycetophilidse 319 



Myiarchus 485 



Mviobia 313 



Mylodon 447 



Myobia 334 



Myothyria 333 



Myxosporium 30 



Natiea . . .103, 114, 116-120, 123, 

 124, 127, 130, 158 



Natrix 381 , 387-390, 400 



Nectocrangon . . .174,181,182, 



191-190 



Necturus 406 



Nemestrinida? 325 



Nemotelus 304, 321 



Neoglaphyroptera . . . 308, 319 



Neopeckia 21 



Neospilota 337 



Neotoma 281 



Neptunea 122 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES 



Neverita 122 



Newcombia .... 215, 226, 237 



NicocleB 828 



Nicotiaua 420 



Nimravus 449 



Northupite 40!) 



NotiphUa 338 



Nucula . . . 103, 123-126, 147, 158 



Numenius 471 



Nycticorax 472 



Occulina 116, 124 



Ochthera 338 



Ocyptamus 330 



Ocyptera 332 



Odontomyia 321 



Odontopolys 7">, 77, 122 



Oestridse 331 



CEstrophasia 333 



Ohleria 30 



Olfersia 340 



Oligosoma 887 



Olivella 116, 130 



Olor 471 



Omegasyrphus 329 



OmmatiuB 324 



Oncodocera 326 



Onychotria 406 



Opheodrys 891 



Ophiboliis 381, 392 



Ophidia .... 387, 405, 406, 447 



Ophisaurus 404 



Ophiobolus 423, 424 



Ophyra 335 



Ortalidse 336 



Oscinidse 339 



Oscinis 339 



Ostrea . .45,92,112-124,14-5-148 



Ovibos 245, 247 



Ovularia 437 



Pachycerina 338 



Pachyophthalmus 334 



Pachyrrhina 320 



Paciculus 281, 286 



Pahemon 1 73 



Paludicohe • 472 



Pandion 464, 480 



Paracerion 206 



Paraelinus 328 



Paracrangon . .174, 175, 188, 189 



Paragus 329 



Paramoecium 167-169 



Paralimna 338 



Paridte 499 



Parkinsonia 431 



Partulina 215, 221, 237 



Parus 464, 499, 500 



Parydra 338, 339 



Passer 489 



OK I'MIJ.ADKI.I'IIIA. 



603 



Passerella 491 



Passe res 485 



l'asserina 491 



Patellea 429 



Pecteu 112, 114, lis, 130, 131, 148 



Pectunculus 112 



Pedetes 270, 272-277 



Pedicularis 544, 545 



Pelastoneurus 328 



Peleeanidse 467 



Peleeanus 467 



Pelecvpoda 46 



Peltaudra 287-289 



Peniopbora 413 



Pentstemon 423, 438 



Perchcerus 286 



Perdieella 215 



Perdita 11-18 



Periploma 52, 12.") 



Peroguathui-s 270-272 



Peromyscus .... 33,381,382 



Petrochelidou 492 



Peucsea 490 



Peziza 42S 



Pbacelia 558 



Phalacrocoraeidse 466 



Phalaerocorax 466 



Phasioelista 333 



Pbasiopteryx 333 



Philohela ' 473 



Phleospora 43."> 



Phoenicurus 349 



Pholadomya 114 



Phoma . 28 



Phora 340 



Phorbia 336 



Phoridse 340 



Phorocera 382 



Phos . . . 108, 114, 116, 118, 119, 



122-129 



Phrynosoma 404 



Phthiria 326 



Pbyllachroa 427 



Phyllosticta 480, 431 



Physaluspora 421 



Pbvsoeephala v 331 



Pici 482 



Picida> 482 



Pinna 116, 120, 130 



Piophila 38S 



Piophilida? 338 



Pipilo 41)1 



Pipiza 329 



Pipunculidse 331 



Piranga 492 



Pituophis 407 



Plagioneurus 328 



Plagiprospheiysa 332 




604 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



Plauera 439 



Plantago 427 



Platyura 307, 319 



Pleeia 319 



Plectropheuax .... 504, 505 



Pleospora 421 



Plethodon 401 



Plethodontidae 401 



Pleurodelidse 400 



Pleurolicus 670-286 



Pleurotoma . . 56-64, 97, 113, 114, 

 116-118, 120, 122-130, 145, 147 



Pleurotomella 56 



Plicatula . 104, 114-123, 130, 131 



Poa 544 



Podicipidse 465 



Podilymbus 465 



Polemonium 422 



Polioptila 500 



Pontocaris 174, 175-197 



Poutophilus . .174,175,182-187, 



191-197 



Pooctetes 489 



Populus 416, 417, 420 



Porzana 473 



Poteutilla 544 



Priouocraugoii . 174, 175, 188, 189 



Proboscidia 447 



Proctacanthus 324 



Progne 492 



Promachus 324 



Prosenoides 314, 334 



Prothechus 331 



Protocardium 114 



Protonotaria 381, 494 



Protoptychus 269-286 



Pseudemys 384, 403 



Pseudobrauchus 407 



Pseudochteta .... 309, .!10, 333 

 Pseudoliva . 75, 103, 113-130, 145, 



147 



Pseudomyothyria 333 



Pseudovalsa 27 



Psittaci 480 



Psittacidaj 480 



Psilocephala . • 327 



Psilopa 338 



Psilopus 328, 329 



Psilota 329 



Ptecticus 320 



Pteropsis 123, 129 



Ptilochseta 334 



Pupa. . . 207 



Pygopodes 465 



Pyrainidella 76, 127 



Pyrgota 336 



Pyrola 544 



Pyrrocoma 549 



Pyrula . 77, 123, 125, 127, 128, 



Quercus 423, 432, 



(iuiscalus 



Rallus 



Ramulaiia 



Raua 382, 394-396, 



Rauaria 



Raugil'er 



Ranidse 



Ranunculus 



Raptores 



Regulus 382, 



Rhaehicerus 



Rhamuus 434- 



Hhipidia 



RhyuchocepbaluH 



Rhyncho}4da^ 



Rhyucbops 



Rhus 420, 424, 



Ricinus 



Rimella .... 78, 114, 115, 



Riugicula 



Rissa 503, 



Rivellia 



Ro.selliuia . . 22, 23, 415, 416, 



Roumegueria 



Rumex 



Sabiuea . . 

 Sacomyida; 

 Salix . . . 436, 



Saline- 



Sambucus 



Sai)ioinyza 



Sapromyzida^ 



Barconiacronychia 



Sarcopbaga 



Sarcophagidae 316, 



Sareotachiuella 



Sargus 



Sarothromyia . 



Sassafras 



Saucropus 



Sauria 386, 



Saxicola 



Saxifraga 



Sayornis 



Scala 



Scaphiopus 



Scatella 



Sceloporus 382, 



Sceuopiiiidfe 



Sceuopinus 



Sciara 



Schicid?e 



Scionayza 



Seioniyzida? 



Seiurus 382, 



174, 175, 187, 188. 



130, 

 145 

 433 

 488 

 472 

 4:-; 7 

 407 

 31)5 

 246 

 394 

 544 

 477 

 500 

 320 

 -430 

 320 

 325 

 466 

 466 

 430 

 421 

 130 

 53 

 504 

 336 

 419 

 4^S 

 437 

 193 

 282 

 544 

 166 

 440 

 338 

 338 

 334 

 334 

 :!34 

 334 

 320 

 H34 

 4:;:; 

 32S 

 404 

 505 

 544 

 485 

 118 

 405 

 339 

 386 

 327 

 327 

 319 

 386 

 336 

 336 

 496 




1895.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP I'M I I, A I >KI .I'll I A . 



605 



Sclerocrangon . . . 174, 176, 177 



Scobinella 62, 122 



Scolecopliagus 487 



Scolopacidse . 478 



Scutella 113-115 



Sepsidse 388 



Sepsis 338 



Septoria 434, 435 



Setophaga 498 



Sigaretus . 103, 116, 118, 128, 124, 



128, 180 



Siguiodon 381 



Siliqua 51, 97 



Sipboclytia 888 



Sipbcma . . . • 333 



Siphonella .339 



Siphophyta 333 



Siren 406 



Sitta 499 



Smilodon 448 



Solarium 441 



Solarium 83, 85, 114, 116, 119, 123, 



125-129, 130 



Solidago 438 



Somateria 503, 505 



Sorex 882 



Spallanzania 884 



Spatula 468 



Spelerpes 401, 405 



Spbaerella . . . 50, 110, 420, 421 



Sptueria 20-31 , 418, 427 



Sphaeropsis ... 28, 29, 436, 437 



Sphecius 264-266 



Sphex 525 



Sphyrapicus 4s:; 



Spilographa 887 



Spilomvia 331 



Spinus 488 



Spiza 491 



Spizella 490 



Spirorbis . 104, 116, 119, 122, 181 



Sporodesmium 489 



Steganopodes 466 



Stelgidopteryx 492 



Stellaria '.544 



Stemphyliuni 440, 441 



Steniolia 351 , 373, 874 



Stenopterina :> >87 



Stercorarius 502-504 



Sterna 505 



Stilbomyces 441 



Stizini 264 



Stizus 264-268 



Stomoxys 885 



Storeria 405, 406 



Stratiomyia 321 



Stratiomyida- 320 



Strepsidura 71 



Strigid 5 e 480 



Strix 480 



Strophia 208 



Sturuella 487 



Stylonchia 168 



Surcula 56 



Sylvania 882, 464, 497 



Synaptomys 382 



Synecbes. 327 



Synthesiomyia 33.) 



Symium . ', 464, 480 



Syrnola 77 



Svrphidaj 829 



Syrphus 329 



Systoechus 326 



Systropus 326 



Tabauidae 821 



Tabanus 321-323 



Tacbina 338 



Tacbinidse 331 



Tachiuinae 309 



Tachinoniyia 334 



Tacbinophyta 388 



Tachycineta 492 



Tachytrechus 328 



r'amias 43 



Tanagra 251 



Tanagrida? 492 



Tan y pus 308, 320 



Tapirus 44/ 



Taracticus 328 



Taranis 64 



Teicbuspora 25, 419 



Teidae 386 



Testudinata 447 



Tellina . . . 51, 126, 130, 147, 158 



Tenuiseala 76, 129 



Tephritis 337 



Tepbrouota 337, 338 



Terebellurn 114 



Terebra . 54, ->5, 103, 113, 116, 117, 



122, 125-127 



Terrapene 382, 3S3 



Tetanocera 336 



Tethys 347-8.",!) 



Thamnophis 387, 406 



Thereva 327 



Therevidte 327 



Tbomomvs 34-87 



Thryothorus . . . .381, 498, 499 



Thysanorayia 332 



Thvridium 424 



Tipula 820 



Tipulida? 320 



Tontophilus 184 



Toruatellina 237 



Torula 439 



Totanus 474 




(>06 



PROCEEDINGS OF 



Toxophora 326 



Trachystoniata 406, 407 



Trematosphseria 24, 25 



Trichopoda 331 



Trifolium 546, 547 



Trigonarea 103, 113, 114, 119, 123 



Tringa 503, 505 



Trionychidaj 386 



Trionyx 404 



Trisetum • 544 



Trochilidse 485 



Trochilus 485 



Trochita 130 



Trochosmilia 116, 118 



Troglodytes 382, 499 



Troglodytidse 498 



Tropidia 331 



Tropidocarpum 551-554 



Tropidoclonion 406 



Tropidonotus 388 



Trvpeta 338 



Trvpetida? 337 



Tuba 123, 12.S 



Turbinolia 116, 118, 119, 123,124, 



129, 130 



Turdidse 500 



Tardus 382, 500, 501 



Turnicula 127 



Turricula .... 69, 116, 119, 123, 



125, 12S 



Tunis 59, 122 



Turritella SI, 82, 97, 114, 118-130, 

 145-148, 157, 158 



Tyraunida 1 485 



Tyraunus 485 



Unibellularia 433 



Urellia 337, 338 



Uria 504 



Urinator 465, 502 



THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Uriuatoridte 465 



Urocyou 42 



Urodela 400, 405, 407 



Ursers 447 



Urtica 430 



Vacei nium 20, 544 



Vagnera 551 



Valerianella 548 



Valsa 425 



Veuerieardia 48, 97, 100, 103, 100, 



110, 112, 113, 115, 116, 118, 120, 



121, 123, 124, 127-130, 145-147, 



157, 150 



Venturia 20 



Veu us • 251 



Vermicularia 28, 421 



Vertumnus 340 



Vespa 525 



Vireo 464, 493 



Vireonidae 4!).". 



Virginia 405, 407 



Volucella 330 



Volutilithes 45, 67, 77, 100, 104-1 19, 

 123-128, 130, 146, 147 



Volvaria 67 



Volvula 54, 119, 122 



Vulpes 447 



Whitneya 71 



Woodsia 544 



Xauthogramma .">2*.i 



Xanthoinelaua 332 



Xylophagida> 320 



Xylota 331 



Yoldia . .97, 103, 123, 129, 145, 147 



Zapus 271, 272 



Zea 433 



Zenaidura 476 



Zodiou 331 



Zouotriehia 4S9 




1895.] 



NATl'HAI, SCIENCES OF I'HILAPELPH I A. 



607 



GENERAL INDEX. 



1895. 



Additions to the Museum, 590. 



Allen, Harrison, M.I)., election to 

 Council, 17i'. Election to Pub- 

 lication Committee, 172. 



Anthropological Section, report 

 of, 583. 



Baldwin, 1). I). Description of 

 new Species of Achatinella from 

 the Hawaiian Islands ( Plates X 

 and XI), 41, 214. 



Ball, M.V., M.D. Report of Mi- 

 croscopical and Biological Sec- 

 tion, report of, 574. 



"Botanical Section, report of, 578. 



Brinton, I). G., M.I). Report of 

 Professor of Ethnology and 

 Archaeology, 585. 



Brown, Stewardsou. Report of 

 Botanical Section, 578. 



Cadwalader, John, election to 

 Council, 40. 



Carter, Henry John, announce- 

 ment of death of, 249. 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. De- 

 port of Curators, 570. 



Cockerel], T. D. A. Some new 

 Bees of the Genus Perdita, 11. 

 The Bees of the Genus Perdita, 

 516. 



Committee on Hay den Memorial 

 Award, report of, 541 . 



Committees, Standing, 0. 



Conchological Section, report of, 



. 57ii. 



Cope, Edw. D. The fossil verte- 

 brata from the fissure at Port 

 Kennedy, Pa., 446. 



Corresponding Secretary, report 

 of, 564. 



Coxe, Eckley B., announcement 

 of death of, 249. 



Curator of the William S. Vaux 

 Collections, .">S7. 



( lurators, report of, 570. 



Dana .lames Dwight, announce- 

 ment of death of, 212. 



Dixon, Samuel G., M. D., ap- 



pointment on Library Commit- 

 tee, 213. Curative effect of tau- 

 rin, 516. Report of the Profes- 

 sor of Histology and Micro- 

 scopic Technology, 586. 



Elections during 1S95, 588. 



Ellis, J. B. Notes on specimens 

 of Pyrenomycetes in the 

 Sch wei nit/ Herbarium of the 

 Academy, 10, 20. 



Ellis, J. B., and B. M. Everhart. 

 New Species of Fungi from va- 

 rious localities, 375, 413. 



Entomological Section, report of, 

 577. 



Foote, A. E., M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 442. 



Foote, Warren M. Preliminary 

 Note on a New Alkali Mineral, 

 408. 



Fowke, Gerard. Archaeological 

 Work in Ohio, 442, 506. 



Fox. Wm. J. Synopsis of the 

 Stizini of Boreal America, 24it, 

 264. Synopsis of the Bembi- 

 cini of Boreal America (Plate 

 XIV), 351. Synopsis of the 

 North American Species of Go- 

 ry tes Latr., 44:;, 517. 



Greene, Edw. L. Eclogse Bo- 

 tanicse, No. 2. I. Some new 

 Western Plants; II. Revision 

 of Tropidocarpum, 541, .">4i>. 



Harlow, Louis A., M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 44:!. 



Harris, Gilbert D. On some New 

 and otherwise Interesting Ter- 

 tiary Mollusca from Texas 

 (Plates r-IX), 10,45. 



Hayden Memorial Award, report 

 on , 541. 



Hayden Memorial Geological 

 Committee, appointment of, 

 213. 



Heilprin, Angelo. The Port Ken- 

 nedy deposit, 451. Appoint- 

 ment as Professor of Geology, 




608 



PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



516. Report of Professor of In- 

 vetebrate Paleontology, 583. 



lline, Elmore C, M. D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 172. 



Holm, Theo. Contributions to 

 the Flora of Greenland, 516, 

 543. 



Houston, H. H., announcement 

 of death of, 802. 



Hulke, John Whitaker, an- 

 nouncement of death of, 212. 



Huxley, Thomas H., announce- 

 ment of death of, 302. 



Index to Genera, 597. 



Jefferis, William \V., appoint- 

 ment as Curator of the VVilliam 

 S. Yaux Collections, 213. Re- 

 port of the Curator of the Wil- 

 liam S. Yaux Collections, 587. 



.Johnson, C. W., and I). W. Co- 

 quillet. Dipteraof Florida, 291, 

 303. 



Keller, Ida A. The jelly-like se- 

 cretion of the fruit of Peltandra 

 imdulata, 249, 287. Notes on 

 the Study of the Cross-fertiliza- 

 tion of Flowers by Insects, 541, 

 555. 



Kennedy, William. The Eocene 

 Tertiary of Texas east of the 

 Brazos River, 41, 89. 



Kirkwood, Daniel, announce- 

 ment of death of, 442, 



Lamborn, Robert H., announce- 

 ment of death of, 10. 



Lawrence, George N., announce- 

 ment of death of, 172. 



Leonard, C. L., M.I). On a new 

 method of studying cell motion, 

 10, 38. 



Lewis, Samuel G., announcement 

 of death of, 541. 



Librarian, report of, 565. 



Meehau, Thomas. Memoir of 

 John Howard Redlield, 250, 

 292. Report of Botanical Sec- 

 tion, 578. 



Mercer, Henry C. A preliminary 

 account of the re-exploration in 

 1804 and 1805 of the Rone-Hole, 

 now known as Irwin's Cave, at 

 Port Kennedy, Montgomery 

 County, Pennsylvania, 448. 



Microscopical and Biological Sec- 

 tion, report of, 574. 



Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, report of, 580. 



Moore, Clarence B. ( lertain River- 



mounds in Duval Co., Florida, 

 442, 443. Two Mounds on Mur- 

 phy Island, Florida, 442, 443. 

 Certain Sand Mounds of the 

 Ocklawaha River, Florida, 442, 

 443. 



.Moore, J. Percy. Notes on Ameri- 

 can Enchytr t-ida'. I. New 

 Species of Friderieia from the 

 vicinity of Philadelphia (Plate 

 XIII), 302, 341. 



Moorhead, William G., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 10. 



Morris, t 'harles. The Extinction 

 of Species, 240, 253. Report of 

 Anthropological Section, 583. 



Morris, Rev. John G., announce- 

 ment of death of, 442. 



Nolan, Edw. J., M.I) A bio- 

 graphical notice of W. S. W. 

 R uschen herger, M. I ). , 452. Re- 

 port of Recording Secretary, 

 562. Report of Librarian, 565. 



Norwood, J. G., announcement 

 of death of, 442. 



Oberholtscer, Yickers. Geologv 

 of the Island of CElaud, 249. 



Officers for 1896, 588. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 

 581 . 



Ortmann, Arnold E. A Study of 

 the systematic and geographic 

 Distribution of the Decapod 

 Familv Ci - angonid;e Bate, 172, 

 173. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., election as 

 Curator, 211. On the status of 

 I he names AphysiaandTethys, 

 847. Report of Conchologicnl 

 Section, 576. Report of the 

 Professor of Malacology, 586. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and E. G. 

 Yanatta. New Species of the 

 Genus Cerion, 206, 212. 



Professor of Ethnology and Arch- 

 aeology, report of, 585. 



Professor of Histology and Micro- 

 scopic Technology, report of, 

 586. 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleon- 

 tology, report of, 583. 



Professor of I n vertebrate Zoology, 

 report of, 585. 



Professor of Malacology, report 

 of, 586. 



Rand, Theo. D. Trap Dykes in 

 Chester Co., Pennsylvania, 540, 




1 895. ] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



609 



Report of Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section, 580. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 

 562. 



Redfield, John H., announce- 

 nient of death of, 171. Memorial 

 minute, 171. Obituary notice 

 of, 292. 



Report of Anthropological Sec- 

 tion, 588. 



Report of Botanical Section, 578. 



Report of Conchological Section, 

 576. 



Report of ( Jorresponding Secre- 

 tary, 564. 



Report of the Curator of the Wil- 

 liam S. Vaux Collections, -587. 



Report of Curators, 570. 



Report of Entomological Section, 

 577. 



Report on the Hay den Memorial 

 Award, 541. 



Report of Librarian, 565. 



Report of .Microscopical and Rio- 

 logical Section, 574. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 580. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 

 581. 



Report of Professor .of Ethnology 

 and Archaeology, 585. 



Report of Professor of Histology 

 and Microscopic Technology, 

 586. 



Report of Professor of Inverte- 

 brate Paleontology, 588. 



Report of Professor of Inverte- 

 brate Zoology, 585. 



Report of Professor of Malacology, 

 586. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 

 562. 



Rex, George A., M. I)., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 38. 

 Memorial minute, 40. 



Rhoads, S. N. Description of 

 new Mammals from Florida 

 and Southern California, 10, 82. 

 New Subspecies of the Gray 

 Fox and Say's Chipmunk, 41, 

 42. Notes on Varying Hares 

 of Washington and British 

 Columbia, 212, 241. Distribu- 

 tion of the American Bison in 

 Pennsyh-ania, with remarks on 

 a new fossil Species, 212, 244. 

 Contributions to the Zoology of 

 Tennessee, No. 1 — Reptiles and 



Amphibians, 376. Contribu- 

 tions to the Zoology of Tennes- 

 see, No. 2— Birds, 875, 468. 



Riley, Charles V., announcement 

 of death of. 442. 



Ruschenberger, \Y. S. W., M.D., 

 announcement of death of, 172. 

 Biographical notice of, 452. 



Ryder, John A. An arrangement 

 of the Retinal Cells in the Eyes 

 of Fishes partially simulating 

 < 'ompound Eyes, 161. The true 

 Nature of the so-called ' ' Nettle- 

 Threads " of Parana ceeium, 167. 

 Announcement of death of, 172. 

 Memorial minute, 211. 



Saporta, Gaston de, announce- 

 ment of death, 212. 



Scott, Wm. R. Protoptychus 

 Hatcheri, a new Rodent' from 

 the Uinta Eocene, 249, 269. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. 1). On a 

 collecting tour in Alaska, Ber- 

 ing Sea and the Arctic Ocean, 

 442. Report of Corresponding 

 Secretary, 564. Report of Pro- 

 fessor of Invertebrate Zoology, 

 585. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D. Report of 

 Entomological Section, 577. 



Standing Committees, 9. 



Starks^ Edwin Chapin. Descrip- 

 tion of a new Genus and 

 Species of Cottoid Fishes from 

 Puget Sound, 875, 410. 



Stone, Witmer. On the Priority 

 of the names Calliste, Aglaia 

 and Calospiza, and their use in 

 Ornithology, 218, 251. List of 

 Birds collected in North Green- 

 land by the Peary Expedition 

 of 1891-92, 442, 502. Report of 

 Ornithological Section, 581. 



Sutor, Henry, and II. M. Gwat- 

 kiu. Obser\ations on the den- 

 tition of Achatinellidai, 41, 287. 



Thomas, Charles M., M. D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 516. 



Tomes, Sir John, announcement 

 of death of, 442. 



Walter, Emma. Does the Dela- 

 ware Water Gap consist of Two 

 River Gorges? 172, 198. 



W i 1 liamson , Passmore, an uou nce- 

 ment of death of, 172. 



Wingate, Harold, resignation 

 from Council, 516. 





PROCEEDINGS 



01 THE 



d 



^mkmi of th\\\m\ ^mwm 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



189t 



■j 



v 



ART I. JANUARY-MARCH. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



' ui 



THOMAS MEEHAN/ CHARLES E. SMITH, 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D., GEORGE H. HORN, M. D. 



Harrison allen, m. d. 

 EDITOR : Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1895. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Nine volumes of the New Series of the Joukual, and Parts 1 and 2 of Volume X 

 (Quarto) have been issued— 1847 to 1895. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per 

 part to subscribers, and to others 112.50 per volume, or 13.75 per part. Vol. VII contains 

 "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mam- 

 malian Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. Bv Joseph Leidy. 

 M. D.. LL D. 



The First Series of the Journal. 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $18. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Academy, published in octavo, 1841 

 to 185ii, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856," may be obtained at $24 to 

 members, and to the public, $36. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 'fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately ; and to the public $3.75 per volume, 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, illustrated, commencing January 1, 

 1871, (of which twenty-four volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1894), is published at $5 "per 

 annum to subscribers, payable in advance ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865—71. Seven vols., 8 vo. Containing 2,500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $40 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed . 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. "With illus- 

 trations of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with 



duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20 : colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. 



Only one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. 



By S. S. Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By Geo. "W. Tryon, Jr. 



2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $10; with col- 

 ored plates, $25 : with plain plates, $19. 



Either the original work or rhe continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonyms of the Species of Strepomatid.e (Melanians) of the United States. 



By Geo. W. Tryon. Jr. Cloth. $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent CoNCHOLGY.with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. TRYon, Jr. Cloth. $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon. Jr. 



Cloth, $2; paper $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. 



Edited by Wm. G. Binnev and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols., 1 to 13. With 



Index. No*. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



Plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of the Genus Unio. Bv Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers— All the publications of the Society will be supplied to 

 booksellers al a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M; D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 •n Square. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mis. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia in trust the sum of $2,500 to be known as 

 the Hayden Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her 

 husband, the late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden, M. D., LL. D. Ac- 

 cording to the terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of 

 the interest arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the 

 best publication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences 

 of geology and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof as 

 may be designated. The award and all matters connected therewith 

 are lo be determined by a committee to be selected in an appropriate 

 manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to Ameri- 

 can naturalists. 




CONTENTS. 



Co< kerell, T. D. A. Some new Bees of the genus Perdita > 11 



Ellis, J. B. Notes on some specimens of Pyrenomycetes in the Schwein- 



itz Herbarium 20 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Descriptions of new Mammals from Florida and 



Southern California 32 



Leonard, Charles Lester, M. D. On a new Method of Studying 



Cell Motion 38 



Rhoads, Samuel N. New Subspecies of the Gray Fox and Say's Chip- 



munk 



Harris, Gilbert D. New and otherwise interesting Tertiary Mollusca 



(Plates 1-9) 4 ' 5 



Kennedy, William. Tbe Eocene Tertiary of Texas, east of the Brazos 



River 89 



Ryder, John A. An arrangement of the Retinal Cells in the Eyes of 



Fishes partially simulating Compound Eyes 161 



Ryder, John A. The true Nature of the so-called "Nettle-Threads" 



of Paramcecium * 67 



Ortmann, Arnold E. A Study of the Systematic and Geographic Dis- 

 tribution of the Decapod Family Crangonidse Bate 173 



Walter, Emma. Does the Delaware Water Gap consist of two River 



Gorges 198 



Pilsbry, H. A. and E. G. Vanatta. New species of the Genus Ceriou. 206 



LEVVTVPC CO , ENGRAVER* AND PRINTERS, PHILADELPHIA. 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ak 



^ajfemg 4 |to*wtJ fyww* 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1895. 



PART II APRIL- SEPTEMBER. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



THOMAS MEEHAN, CHARLES E, SMITH, 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D., GEORGE H. HORN, M. D. 



HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. 



EDITOR : Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1895. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Nine volumes of the New Series of the Journal,, and Parts 1 and 2 of Volume X 

 (Quarto) have-been issued— 1847 to 1895. The price per volume of four parts is 810, or $3 per 

 part to subscribers, and to others 812.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains 

 "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mam- 

 malian Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy 

 M. D„ LL. D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Academy, published in octavo, 1841 

 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members, and to the public, $36. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately ; and to the public $3.75 per volume, 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, illustrated, commencing January 1, 

 1871, (of which twenty-four volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1894), is published at $5 per 

 annum to subscribers, payable in advance ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865—71. Seven vols., 8 vo. Containing 2,500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $40 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



BOOKS F"OR SALE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed . 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illus- 

 trations of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with 



duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20 : colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. 



Only one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. 



By S. S. Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with col- 

 ored plates, $25 ; with plain plates, $19. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonyms of the Species of Strepomatid^e (Melanians) of the United States. 



By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth. $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent CoNCHOLGY,with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Teyod, Jr: Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon. Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. 



Edited by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols., 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



Plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers — All the publications of the Society will be supplied to 

 Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 Logan Square. 



October, 1895. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mrs. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia in trust the sum of $2, 500 to be known as 

 the Hayden Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her 

 husband, the late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden, M. D., LL. D. Ac- 

 cording to the terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of 

 the interest arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the 

 best publication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences 

 of geology and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof as 

 may be designated. The award and all matters connected therewith 

 are to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appropriate 

 manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to Ameri- 

 can naturalists. 




CONTENTS. 



Ryder, John A. Obituary Minute . . 211 



Baldwin, D. D. Description of new Species of Achatinellidse from the 



Hawaiian Islands. (Plates X and XI) 214 



Gwatkin, H. M., and Henry Suter. Observations on the Dentition of 



Achatinellidae 237 



Rhoads, Samuel, N. Notes on the Varying Hares of Washington and 



British Columbia, with Description of a new Sub-species 241 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Distribution of the American Bison in Pennsyl- 

 vania, with Remarks on a new Fossil Species 244 



Stone, Witmer. The Priority of the Names Calliste, Aglaia, and 



Calospiza and their use in Ornithology 251 



Morris, Charles. The Extinction of Species 253 



Fox, William J. Synopsis of the Stizini of Boreal America 264 



Scott, W. B. Protoptychus Hatcheri, a new Rodent from the Uinta 



Eocene 269 



Keller, Ida A. The Jelly-like Secretion of the Fruit of Peltandra 



undulata Raf. (Plate XII) 287 



Meehan, Thomas. Memoir of John Howard Redfleld 292 



Johnson, C. W., and D. W. Coquillett. Diptera of Florida 303 



Moore, J. Percy. Notes on American Enchytrseidse I. New Species of 



Fridericia from the Vicinity of Philadelphia. (Plate XIII) 341 



Pilsbry, Henry A. On the Status of the Names Aplysia and Tethys . 347 

 Fox, William J. Synopsis of the Bembicini of Boreal America. (Plate 



XIV) 351 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee. No. 



1, Reptiles and Amphibians 376 



LEVYTYPE CO.. ENGRAVERS AND PRINTERS, PHILADELPHIA. 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



<|tf«fetttg of |fote«tJ fyjhw* 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1895. 



PART III, OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



thomas meehan, charles e. smith, 



edward j. nolan, m. d., george h. horn, m. d. 



Harrison allen, m. d. 



EDITOR : Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 ' 1896. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Nine volumes of the New Series of the Journal, and Parts 1, 2 and 3 of Volume X 

 (Quarto) have been issued— 1847 to 1896. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per 

 part to subscribers, and to others $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains 

 The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mam- 

 malian Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, 

 M. D„ LL. D. 



The First Series op the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Academy, published in octavo, 1841 

 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members, and to the public, $36. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately ; and to the public $3.75 per volume, 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, illustrated, commencing January 1, 

 1871, (of which twenty-five volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1895), is published at $5 per 

 annum to subscribers, payable in advance ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Con' ology, 1865—71. Seven vols., 8 vo. Containing 2,500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred ana fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $40 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10' each. 



BOOKS ROR SALE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed . 

 Description of Shells ok North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illus- 

 trations of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with 



duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20 : colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. 



Only one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. 



By S. S. Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with col- 

 ored plates, $25 ; with plain plates, $19. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonyms of the Species of Strepomatidje (Melanians) of the United States. 



By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Concholgy, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. TRYon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon. Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. 



Edited by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index. Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



Plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers— All the publications of the Society will be supplied to 

 Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 Logan Square. 



February, i8g6. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mrs. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia in trust the sum of $2,500 to be known as 

 the Hayden Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her 

 husband, the late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden, M. D., LL. D. Ac- 

 cording to the terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of 

 the interest arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the 

 best publication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences 

 of geology and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof as 

 may be designated. The award and all matters connected therewith 

 are to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appropriate 

 manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to Ameri- 

 can naturalists. 




CONTENTS. 



Rhoads, Samuel, N. Contributions to the Zoology of Tennesse (con- 

 tinued) 387 



Foote, Warren M. Preliminary Note on a New Alkali Mineral . . . 408 

 Starks, Edwin Chapin. Description of a New Genus and Species of 



Cottoid Fishes from Puget Sound 410 



Ellis, J. B., and B. M. Everhart. New Speciesof Fungi from Various 



Localities 413 



Mercer, Henry C. A Preliminary Account of the Re-exploration in 

 1894 and 1895 of the " Bone-Hole," now known as Irwin's Cave, at 



Port Kennedy, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania 443 



Cope, Edward D. The Fossil Vertebrata from the Fissure at Port Ken- 

 nedy, Pennsylvania 446 



Heilprin, Angelo. The Port Kennedy Deposit '. . . . 451 



Nolan, Edward J., M.D. A Biographical Notice of W. S. W. Ruschen- 



berger, M.D , 452 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee, No. 2, 



Birds 463 



Stone, Witmer. List of Birds Collected in North Greenland by the 



Peary Expedition of 1891-2 and the Relief Expedition of 1892 .... 502 



Fowke, Gerard. Archaeological Work in Ohio 506 



Fox, William J. Synopsis of the North American Species of Go'rytes, 



Latr 517 



Rand, Theodore D. Trap Dykes in Chester County, Pennsylvania . . 540 



Report of the Committee on the Hay den Memorial Award 541 



Holm, Theo. Contributions to the Flora of Greenland 543 



Greene, Edward L. Eclogae Botanicse, No. 2. I, Some new Western 



Plants ; II, Revision of Tropidocarpum 546 



Keller, Ida A. Notes on the Study of the Cross-Fertilization of 



Flowers by Insects 555 



Report of the Recording Secretary 562 



Report of the Corresponding Secretary 564 



Report of the Librarian 565 



Report of the Curators 570 



Report of the Microscopical and Biological Section 574 



Report of the Conchological Section 576 



Report of the Entomological Section 577 



Report of the Botanical Section 578 



Report of the Mineralogical and Geological Section 580 



Report of the Ornithological Section 581 



Report of the Anthropological Section 583 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology 583 



Report of the Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology 585 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Zoology 585 



Report of the Professor of Histology and Microscopic Technology . . . 586 



Report of the Professor of Malacology 586 



Report of the Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections 587 



Officers for 1896 588 



Elections during 1895 588 



Additions to the Museum 590 



Index to Genera 597 



General Index 607 



LEVVTYPE CO., ENGRAVERS AND PRINTERS, PHILADELPHIA. 






IV !fi. L .„^ H01 LIBRARY 



UH IflRj S 





